COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS for the UN Global Compact Roland Berger GmbH Reporting period: October 2014 to September 2015 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS FOR THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT October 2014 to September 2015 About Roland Berger Roland Berger, founded in 1967, is the only leading global consultancy of German heritage and European origin. With 2,400 employees working from 36 countries, we have successful operations in all major international markets. Our 50 offices are located in the key global business hubs. The consultancy is an independent partnership owned exclusively by 220 Partners. We consider corporate responsibility a strategic business approach. From our consulting experience we see that it has gained relevance for international companies in recent years as it reconciles economic, social and environmental success. As a global company, we live up to our social responsibility by treating our employees, clients, suppliers and the environment responsibly. We are a social community made up of different people from many nations with diverse backgrounds and outlooks. As a business, we're also a part of a community – namely, the society in which we work. About this report This report illustrates how Roland Berger GmbH, as the German pillar of our group, is working to bring the Global Compact to life in our consulting operations. This Communication on Progress is the third report after Roland Berger Strategy Consultants GmbH became a member of the UN Global Compact. In September 2015, our firm's name was changed to Roland Berger GmbH. The following report describes the current status and past development and what we plan for the future, by setting goals related to the ten principles of the Global Compact. This is our Communication on Progress in implementing the principles of the United Nations Global Compact. We welcome feedback on its contents. PAGE 2 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS FOR THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT October 2014 to September 2015 CONTENTS P.5 HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1 | Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Principle 2 | Businesses should make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses. P.10 LABOR STANDARDS Principle 3 | Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining, Principle 4 | the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; Principle 5 | the effective abolition of child labor; and Principle 6 | the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. P.17 ENVIRONMENT Principle 7 | Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8 | undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; Principle 9 | encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. P.22 ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle 10 | Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. P.4 OUR CEO'S DECLARATION P.25 THE ORIGIN OF OUR GOALS PAGE 3 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS FOR THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT October 2014 to September 2015 Our CEO's declaration of continued support Roland Berger is committed to making the Global Compact and its principles part of our company's strategy, culture and day-to-day operations. This letter underscores our intent to endorse these principles within our sphere of influence. In the following report, we describe our company's efforts to implement the ten principles in our core business activities. We take our corporate responsibility seriously and live up to its demands each day by treating our employees, clients, suppliers and environment responsibly. We believe that it lies in our own interest to act responsibly. Our understanding of ethical behavior toward our stakeholders is reflected in our primary policy document: the Code of Conduct. This code applies to every employee in the company and offers guidance for our decisions and professional behavior in our work. In the context of a rebranding executed in September 2015, our consultancy was renamed to Roland Berger GmbH. Regardless from the legal name, this report refers to the same company as in the past. We will continue our efforts to move forward in the four areas of the Global Compact over the next 12 months. Therefore, I am pleased to confirm our continued support of the ten principles of the Global Compact with respect to human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. Charles-Edouard Bouée CEO, Roland Berger GmbH PAGE 4 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS FOR THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT October 2014 to September 2015 Human rights COMMITMENT | IMPLEMENTATION | GOALS Principle 1 | Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Principle 2 | Businesses should make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses. PAGE 5 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS FOR THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT October 2014 to September 2015 OUR COMMITMENT Roland Berger explicitly supports the protection of human rights. We emphasize this support in our primary policy document, the Code of Conduct. We are committed to ensuring that we as a company, as well as our employees as individuals, respect and uphold human rights in every way. CURRENT STATUS OF IMPLEMENTATION Our commitment to protect all human rights is not only anchored in our Code of Conduct, but also enacted in the form of various established processes and control mechanisms. HUMAN RIGHTS Every consultant is introduced to the topic of ethical behavior at the consultants' kick-off seminar upon joining Roland Berger. Additionally, an e-training session about the Code of Conduct is compulsory for all employees and freelancers/subcontractors. Designed as a refresher course, these training sessions aim to foster awareness of the issue. Any non-­ cooperation with this training is reported to the Compliance Officer, who will act accordingly. In the event of a human rights violation, employees can communicate their information to the Compliance Officer through a number of channels. We are proud to say that to date no human rights violations have been reported. In order to encourage our people to report irregularities, abuses and risks, we have set up a totally anonymous internet–based whistle-­ blowing platform last year. A substantial number of our employees inquired our internal Intranet information concerning the whistle-blowing system, but no incident was reported via this platform since its introduction. HEALTH & SAFETY We care about the well-being of all our employees. Thus a comprehensive network of health and safety measures is in place, to address issues such as stress resilience. Roland Berger employees are encouraged to make full use of their annual vacation days. For our managers a trust-based vacation policy has been implemented to ensure sufficient relaxation time. The office Friday policy stipulates that consultants should spend Fridays at their local offices, PAGE 6 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS FOR THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT October 2014 to September 2015 instead of with the client. In addition, to deal with potential situations of high pressure, a stress management seminar is offered as part of the regular seminar curriculum. In 2014, we carried out five seminars for experienced consultants and services alike. On top, we introduced the Team Barometer tool four years ago to monitor any unhealthy team atmosphere as well as situations of extraordinary stress and pressure. To ensure the health and safety of our employees we perform annual workplace inspections. At these occasions we make sure that the rooms and office equipment meet the highest ergonomic standards. Should any employee ever have a concern or special needs we promise to take action to meet their requirements. Occasionally it is necessary for our employees to travel to high-risk countries. There are several control mechanisms in place to identify these critical countries and assess the risk of traveling there. International SOS constantly provides us with information. In case an employee intends to travel to a high risk country, an internal information system for our Global Head of Human Resources and a de-escalation system for our Executive Committee are implemented. Additionally, the respective Managing Partner is notified. Should travel to a highrisk area be deemed crucial and feasible, we provide all the means necessary to make the trip as safe as possible. In the context of the geopolitical crisis in Ukraine, at least on a temporary basis, we partly transferred our local colleagues to other countries. SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT Since we are a service provider, our supply chain is usually less confronted with human rights issues. Our employees all work for us of their own choosing and are all of legal age. The prevention of forced or compulsory labor and child labor is not explicitly phrased in our internal guidelines so far, mainly because German legislation addresses and enforces a respective corporate behavior. The elimination of these issues is of course a very important topic that must not be disregarded. Our Human Resources department and the Compliance Officer are not only designated, but well equipped to deal with any situation regarding human rights at Roland Berger. PAGE 7 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS FOR THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT October 2014 to September 2015 ACHIEVEMENT OF GOALS In the last Communication on Progress, we defined some objectives that we wanted to achieve in order to continuously improve and expand our actions in the field of human rights protection. GOALS COMMENT We intended to keep the high level of This goal is fully met. completed e-trainings on the Code of Conduct. We aimed to introduce yearly written In the meantime written confirmations of confirmations from all Partners concerning Roland Berger Partners have been introduced. adherence to the Code of Conduct by June 2015. To ensure the well-being and health of our We decided not to implement this additional Partners, we intended to develop a concept to program. Instead, we will extend our stress check their health status on a regular basis. management seminar offer. Furthermore, we continue to provide individual support and counsel on health issues, if needed. GOALS FOR THE FUTURE In the future we will of course remain committed to the protection of human rights within our sphere of influence. Particularly, we will strive to reach the following goals: • In the next reporting period we want to keep the rate of successfully completed e-trainings on the Code of Conduct at least on the same level. • Additionally, we aim to further extend the number of stress management seminars and want to pilot a one day refresher seminar. PAGE 8 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS FOR THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT October 2014 to September 2015 Responsible business Many of the issues that the United Nations Global Compact address­ es are explicitly covered by German and EU law, which companies based in Germany must observe. As a Ger­ man company, Roland Berger GmbH does so too. But we go further, proCODE OF CONDUCT actively taking steps in line with Living up to our values the guidelines set out by the Global Compact. By introducing our Code of Conduct in 2004, It covers issues such as data security, intellectu­ Roland Berger established general rules for ethical al property rights, insider information, respectful behavior in our business conduct. This document conduct, recruitment standards, health and safety is a formal element of every employment contract at work, human rights and environmental protec­ and we expect our employees to comply with it. tion. Additionally, every Roland Berger Partner has to confirm his/her compliance with the Code of Con­ Our Code of Conduct is a living core document of duct on a yearly basis. our firm that undergoes constant amendments. Thus, it now covers even more explicitly the four Our compliance management system encom­ areas that the Global Compact describes. passes all tools and mechanisms that define and implement the principles and values of our or­ Roland Berger is taking many actions that build on ganization, including the guidelines of the Code of the ten principles set out by the Global Compact, Conduct. Thus, it allows us to uphold them in our as described in this report. strategic and operational business. FIND THE LATEST VERSION The code was designed to meet the specific de­ OF OUR CODE OF CONDUCT HERE: mands faced by Roland Berger. It provides guid­ http://www.rolandberger.de/media/pdf/Roland_ ance for behavior in our dealings with clients, Berger_Code_of_Conduct_20150916.PDF colleagues, suppliers and competitors. Our Code of Conduct is built on the pillars of corporate re­ sponsibility, professional integrity, confidentiality and safety and personal conduct. PAGE 9 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS FOR THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT October 2014 to September 2015 Labor standards COMMITMENT | IMPLEMENTATION | GOALS Principle 3 | Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining, Principle 4 | the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; Principle 5 | the effective abolition of child labor; and Principle 6 | the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. PAGE 10 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS FOR THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT October 2014 to September 2015 OUR COMMITMENT We are committed to providing our employees with a work environment that is open, friendly and non-discriminatory and that is fully in accordance with German legislation, our Code of Conduct and the Global Compact. CURRENT STATUS OF IMPLEMENTATION Everyone at Roland Berger is dedicated to our three cor­ po­rate values: entrepreneurship, excellence and empathy. These values are an imperative for each of us, and they determine our thoughts and actions. As a result, we under­ take continuous efforts to improve our personal skills and professional know-how in our consulting teams. EDUCATION AND DEVELOPMENT To provide our clients with best possible consulting services we offer our employees a broad educational program with a vast range of both mandatory and optional seminars. These seminars include topics such as methodology, soft and leadership skills or individual coaching. Currently consultants partake in 5-6 days of compulsory training per year. Support staff typically have 2-3 days of training per year. Relevance of topics and quality of trainings is guaranteed by a carefully arranged selection and quality management process. By sponsoring Master, MBA and doctoral programs we enable our employees to pursue their academic interests. We also offer a sabbatical to enable employees to follow their own interests beyond Roland Berger's day-to-day operations. Our common understanding of quality and performance for our clients and the way we all work together is reflected in a climate of equality, respect, openness and constructive feedback. Sophisticated evaluation mechanisms are installed: regular project assessments (both topdown and bottom-up) allow employees to voice their opinions on all matters. An additional leadership assessment is held annually. The results of this anonymous feedback have a direct impact on the individual supervisors' remuneration. In 2014, the participation rate in these bottom-up assessments increased again compared to the previous year: 73% of consultants (+7%) and 65% of the support staff (+16%) participated. PAGE 11 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS FOR THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT October 2014 to September 2015 DIVERSITY MANAGEMENT Outstanding management consultants are more than just brilliant analysts and strategists. Above all, they are strong and creative personalities from a variety of backgrounds. Diversity and non-discrimination lie at the heart of our Code of Conduct and is thus part of our business and personal behavior. We acknowledge and value the differences among our workforce, clients and business partners and consider them an opportunity. For all employees in Germany, the Equal Treatment Act (Allgemeines Gleichbehandlungsgesetz, AGG) is part of their contract. To reiterate the importance of this topic all new employees are required to participate in an e-learning course. Additionally several processes have been installed to ensure equal treatment of all employees. RECRUITING PRACTICES In order to intensify the co-operation, Roland Berger is strategic partner of several inter­ national business schools whose students have particularly diverse backgrounds. Thus, these partnerships also strengthen our diversity approach. Our entire recruiting process of addressing, identifying and selecting new employees is based on talent, performance and potential. Our promotion system is likewise based on transparency, performance evaluation and merit. State-of-the-art methodology is applied to ensure an impartial and skill-based decision-making process. The remuneration of our employees is linked strictly according to their rank level within the company. Employees are rewarded for their work performance. Hence, the remuneration process is transparent. Our International Staff Exchange Program was also designed to foster diversity at the work­ place. In 2014, 145 employees (+79%) participated in the exchange program and 22 different countries were involved. Cross-country networking beyond the day-to-day work is enhanced by events like our international kick-off-meetings or our development program for high per­ formers: the Challenge Club. This program – made up of the most promising high potentials within the firm – aims at contributing to the individual development of the consultants: The members – up to 60 consultants from 25 countries – meet twice a year for a few days to further develop their personal and business skills and network across borders. The diversity of our employees is also reflected by the array of nationalities represented in our offices. In 2014, Roland Berger in Germany had employees from 29 countries. By the end of the year, 25.7% of Roland Berger employees in Germany are female. 13.0% of consultants and 9.6% of consultants in management positions are women. In order to make consulting more attractive for women we conduct special recruiting events, have implemented measures to improve work and family life balance and we have a special mentoring program for female consultants in place. Through our membership in the Charta der Vielfalt we express how much we value diversity. PAGE 12 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS FOR THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT October 2014 to September 2015 WORK-LIFE BALANCE The company's continuous efforts to create a better work-life balance for our employees – men and women alike – is expressed by the certification berufundfamilie . For instance, in the last year again more than 50% of our employees on parental leave were men. We are proud to be ranked among the top 3 employers in our industry in our European core markets. This reflects how the efforts we undertake to create the best possible work environment bear fruit. ACHIEVEMENT OF GOALS As expressed in the previous report, we aimed to further live up to internationally accepted labor standards and to build the diversity of our employees by setting the following goals. GOALS COMMENT To increase the number of female consultants With currently 13% of female consultants, we to 15% by the end of 2015, is one of our main have not yet fully met this goal. To create more objectives. impetus, our CEO will start a global initiative to attract more women in consulting. We wanted to further extend our self-learning Despite the fact that we did not increase offerings over the next few months. the absolute number of e-learning offerings, we successfully marketed the existing selflearnings in our international HR organization. Concerning the leadership assessment, for We nearly achieved our goal in 2014 for 2014/15 we planned to bring the response consultants where we increased the rate back to the 2012 level for consultants participation rate to 73%. Related to our and increase the services response rate to 5% services personnel we even exceeded our goal above the 2012 level. with a rate of 65%. We aimed to maintain the high level of Whereas the number of countries involved International Staff Exchange participants and in our International Staff Exchange program countries involved in the last reporting period. remained stable in 2014, we significantly increased the number of participating con­ sultants to 145 (+79%). We wanted to be successfully re-audited by This goal was fully met and we have been berufundfamilie in 2014. awarded once again the certificate by the auditing organization. PAGE 13 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS FOR THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT October 2014 to September 2015 GOALS FOR THE FUTURE In the months to come, we will continue our efforts to reach the targeted goals regarding our work force. • Increasing the number of female colleagues remains one of our main objectives. We expect to reach our initial goal for 2014 of 15% female consultants by end of 2016. Our CEO will kick-off an initiative to employ more women. Our targets for 2020 are as following: 35% of female applicants in all regions, a share of 25% woman in the group of Senior Consultants and Project Managers (first management level) and 20 new female Partners. • Regarding the seminar program, we want to maintain the current level of training days per employee and continuously provide up-to-date and relevant courses, using effective and high-quality teaching methods. • Concerning the leadership assessment, for 2015/16 we plan to achieve at least the same participation rates as 2014. • We want to maintain or even increase the number of participants in the International Staff Exchange Program. • In the months to come, we will pilot new evaluation processes, including new bottomup leadership assessments, to improve the feedback quality, to make assessment more objectively and give even better development advice. • We intend to become top 5 five employer in our industry in the overall European ranking until 2017. PAGE 14 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS FOR THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT October 2014 to September 2015 For a better work-life balance As a management consultancy, we have done a of quality offered by the non-profit Hertie Founda­ great deal in a wide range of projects over the years tion, now widely implemented and accepted to help bring about a better work-life balance in across Germany, and we've provided longstanding our country. What all of these advisory projects support for the Success Factor Family ( Erfolgs­ have in common is their aim to get German compa­ faktor Familie ) project under the auspices of Ger­ nies to introduce or enhance family-friendly per­ many's Ministry for Family Affairs (BMFSFJ). sonnel policies. Family friendliness has become much more of a priority in recent years: it is one of the top issues for policymakers and a top-manage­ FAMILY AS A SUCCESS FACTOR ment matter in business now that leaders have Initiated in 2006 by the BMFSFJ in cooperation recognized the considerable benefit it holds for with employers and trade unions (specifically the them. Work-life balance is the subject of broadBDA and DGB) and the chamber organizations based, intense and passionate debate these days DIHK und ZDH, the Success Factor Family pro­ – but what really matters is that solutions are gram aims to mobilize companies within the Ger­ ­being found and becoming ­established. man economy to support work-life balance. The program is primarily a call to leadership personnel, Roland Berger is the advisor of choice for this topic decision makers and human resources managers – an issue of equally great relevance to society and in companies as well as union representatives to the business world. In just two examples of our en­ help establish family-friendly personnel policies gagement, we were called upon to work on the as a strategic management tool and a key element strategic realignment of the berufundfamilie seal of corporate management. The program simulta­ PAGE 15 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS FOR THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT October 2014 to September 2015 neously offers a platform for shining the public THE NEW BALANCE spot­light on how policymakers, unions and corpora­ To complement our consulting activities, last No­ tions are working together. Roland Berger has been vember we released a Roland Berger publication providing support and advice on the program right titled The NEW Balance to add impetus to the from the start. public debate on family friendliness in Germany. Past significant milestones in this success story BEYOND MAINSTREAM include: the Family and Business summit meet­ ing held by German Chancellor Angela Merkel in October 2006 with the then Families Minister Ur­ sula von der Leyen and the Alliance for the Family impulse group (formulating principles for the es­ tablishment of a Family-Friendly Working En­ vironment ); highlighting the benefit to businesses and the economy of adopting family-friendly ­policies and their relevance as a key location factor and driver of competitiveness for companies in Ger­many; expanding family-friendly policies be­ yond childcare to enable people to care for family members as well, under the motto Time for ­Responsibility ; the signing of the Charter for Family-­Friendly Working Hours by the German gov­ern­ment, the BDA, DGB, DIHK and ZDH in Feb­ ruary 2011 at a Chancellor's summit meeting; or DIE NEUE VEREINBARKEIT latterly in September 2015 a memorandum from Warum Deutschland einen Qualitätssprung bei der Vereinbarkeit von Beruf und Familie braucht! Families Minister Manuela Schwesig and the sign­ ing of 10 principles for the NEW BALANCE by busi­ ness leaders and trade unions. NOVEMBER 2014 Enabling more flexible working hours remains a There is no doubt that Germany's economy has be­ major lever for achieving a better work-life ba­lance, come perceptibly more family friendly in the past which is why the program has concentrated in ten years, but we still firmly believe that an addi­ the last three years on breaking down recognized tional push is called for. While it's gratifying to see barriers to the realization of this in businesses. The that the number of working mothers in Germany next step is now to build on the successes so far. is now higher than before, almost half of them are Aside from the focus on family-friendly working in part-time jobs. Companies will find fathers avai­ hours, there is going to be an increase in new ling themselves of their work-life balance offerings ­aspects coming in to bolster the current priority of to an increasing extent in the future. Many compa­ achieving work/life balance in partnership(s). nies are still in the early stages of working to meet the needs of modern fathers. In spite of all the successes, almost half of the German population still holds the opinion that it's not easy to achieve a work-life balance. With a NEW balance – and that includes a NEW culture of balance – Ger­many should build on its already good core provision and establish a thoroughly modern, family-friendly environment suited to the different phases of life in which members of the national workforce find themselves. PAGE 16 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS FOR THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT October 2014 to September 2015 Environment COMMITMENT | IMPLEMENTATION | GOALS Principle 7 | Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8 | undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9 | encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. PAGE 17 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS FOR THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT October 2014 to September 2015 OUR COMMITMENT Roland Berger as a professional services company is cer­tainly less exposed to environmental issues, as our product does not have a direct ecological impact. Nevertheless, we strive to minimize our negative ecolo­ gical influence, even though, compared to other elements of the Global Compact, environmental protection is not as central for us. CURRENT STATUS OF IMPLEMENTATION We believe that within our corporate responsibility we have an obligation toward the environment. Hence, in our operations we consider environmental protection part of our duty and are committed to contributing our fair share to this important matter. ECOLOGICAL FOOTPRINT The greatest impact on the environment is indisputably created by the traveling of our consultants. However, we aim to keep our carbon footprint small. Our travel guidelines are intended to encourage cost-conscious, environmentally aware and efficient travel. As possible modes of transportation our employees can choose between plane, train, lease car, rental car, car-sharing options or public transportation. Despite these varied options employees are encouraged to always select the most cost-effective, time-efficient and environmentally friendly transportation. In addition, the number of weekly flights is limited and travel above that limit requires the supervisor's approval prior to booking. For travel routes with high-speed connections, the train is our preferred means of transport. In 2014, we could not increase our rail kilometers per capita compared to the previous year. In contrary, we saw a slight decrease of kilometers per consultant in Germany (-2%). The cause of this development may be the relative high number of strikes taking place in 2014. 3,063,976 kilo­meters of our German travel with the train in 2014 were realized using environmentally friendly electricity. This has been recognized by the Deutsche Bahn with a special certificate ( Ökostrom-Zertifikat ). PAGE 18 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS FOR THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT October 2014 to September 2015 In addition, we are encouraging telephone and video conferencing. All German offices utilize state-of-the-art video conferencing devices and our consultants can request an individual equipment set for their laptops. For instance, again from 2013 to 2014 we have significantly increased the time spent (+82%) in video conferences in Germany. And we will further improve our equipment in the next year to make our employees use video conferencing even more frequently. To help our employees be as environmentally conscious in their individual behavior as possible, we provide them with Eco Tips via our intranet. To reduce our environmental impact at the German offices a number of processes have been put in place. For instance, in our central purchasing we select products that meet environmental standards or have relevant certificates. We give preference to regional suppliers of food and beverages to reduce the amount of carbon emissions caused by processing, packaging and transport. Furthermore, we separate trash, such as paper, batteries or other electronic waste to facilitate the recycling process. We constantly strive to minimize our paper consumption and use FSC certified paper in all offices in Germany. As shown in the table below we have constantly reduced our energy consumption in our German offices. As a matter of fact, the decrease amounts to 22% since 2011. Office buildings 2011 [kWh] 2012 [kWh] 2013 [kWh] 2014 [kWh] Berlin 110,350 90,200 78,370 33,738 Dusseldorf 137,339 133,100 110,167 141,378 Frankfurt 126,272 120,155 106,266 87,693 Hamburg 63,423 63,797 53,210 66,004 Munich 1,190,347 1,129,288 1,062,841 937,872 Stuttgart 45,524 50,000* 43,000* 38,558 Total consumption: 1,673,255 1,586,540 1,453,854 1,305,243 REDUCTION -5.18% -8.36% -10.22% -13.11% -21.99% * Estimate, final figures of energy consumption are not yet available. At all our sites environmentally friendly electricity is used and we seek to rent energy efficient offices. Our building in Frankfurt for example is certified with the LEED® Gold standard – and our new office building in Dusseldorf will also get this premium certificate shortly. PAGE 19 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS FOR THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT October 2014 to September 2015 ACHIEVEMENT OF GOALS With the goals set in our previous report, we wanted to have a greater positive impact on our environment. GOALS COMMENT We wanted to further reduce travel activities Both the total number of video conferences in general in order to save our planet and use and the time spent in video conferences by our even more video and telephone conferencing employees increased significantly from 2013 instead. to 2014. We planned to introduce an innovative Subsequent to the introduction of more environ­ mobility concept (e.g. car-sharing and mentally friendly travel guidelines (e.g. stricter pooling options) and to further incentivize policies for using trains and more public instead environmentally friendly travel behavior of of individual transportation) for Germany in 2014, our employees. we have expanded our offerings of car-sharing options, installed an electronic shuttle car for the transfer from our headquarters in Munich to the airport and support our staffs' use of e-bikes. We intended to implement a more ecologically In the meantime we have implemented a new friendly lease car policy by June 2015. lease car policy. One substantial change is that we substituted the firm's cash contribution to the leasing rate by an easy & green mobility budget to push the use of more ecologically friendly means of transport (like public transport, train, e-bikes, car sharing etc.). Furthermore, we now included electronic vehicles to be used as lease cars. As a matter of fact our overall CO2 emission in our fleet was reduced by 4% over the last 12 months. GOALS FOR THE FUTURE We will continue our efforts to reduce our ecological footprint by setting the following environmental goals: • With the roll-out of a wider range of new video conference equipment in 2016 we aim to constantly increase video conferencing and reduce travel respectively. • We plan to further reduce the average CO2 emission of our existing car lease fleet by 10% by September 2016. • Overall, we strive to further encourage our employees to use alternative – and more flexible – mobility offers instead of a fixed leasing car. PAGE 20 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS FOR THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT October 2014 to September 2015 Leadership guidelines and principles: 10 Commitments 10 COMMITMENTS To live our 3 Values of Entrepreneurship, Empathy and Excellence, we will hold ourselves to the following principles With the objective of living our three corporate This summer, we conducted an employee survey values of entrepreneurship, empathy and ex­ in order to evaluate how well we are fulfilling our cellence, all Roland Berger Partners signed and leadership principles. And the result is really con­ pledged allegiance to the 10 Commitments at vincing: A huge majority of our employees know their Leadership Camp in November 2014. the 10 Commitments and fully identify with them. We will keep reminding all our employees These 10 Commitments intend to be a testimo­ to live up to them every day and design our pro­ ny to our consultancy's spirit: client first, innova­ cesses and rules in a way that helps them do so. tive, fact based, collaborative, relevant, develop­ ing (talent), leading, respectful, ethical and proud. That is why the 10 Commitments will continue to form the basis of our corporate culture and will These commitments stipulate leadership guide­ steer our professional conduct – together with the lines and principles that we all strive to live up to more prescriptive Code of Conduct. every day. We believe that doing so will contribute to building an ever stronger firm, internally and externally. Having obtained the pledge of all Roland Berger Partners, the task was to make the commitments real in our daily work and individual conduct among each other – with colleagues, employees and clients alike. Which is why we did not limit our actions to this token gesture, but spread them out to all Roland Berger employees. PAGE 21 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS FOR THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT October 2014 to September 2015 Anticorruption COMMITMENT | IMPLEMENTATION | GOALS Principle 10 | Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. PAGE 22 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS FOR THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT October 2014 to September 2015 OUR COMMITMENT As a leading consultancy Roland Berger is committed to operating with a clear conscience and speaking out against any and every form of unethical behavior. Thus we assert our opposition to corruption, extortion and bribery within our company or by outsiders. CURRENT STATUS OF IMPLEMENTATION Our Code of Conduct conveys a clear understanding of ethical behavior and guides us in our day-to-day business decisions. TRANSPARENT CONTRACTS To prevent any abuse all payments to freelancers or Senior Advisors are made via bank transfer, without exception. Furthermore, contracts for all Roland Berger freelancers and Senior Advisors have been standardized and their payment is controlled via proApproval , a tool for avoiding disproportionate remuneration. During our annual audit the contracts for Senior Advisors and all related payments are subject to strict scrutiny. PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY To avoid potential conflicts of interest amongst clients' teams a steering body and strict guidelines in the form of Chinese walls are in place. All employees must adhere to binding confidentiality rules, in accordance with both their employment contract and our Code of Conduct. Our clean desk policy is regularly checked in our German offices. E-learning cour­ ses are compulsory for all employees, to keep them aware of the issue. Just like employees, freelancers also must adhere to our Code of Conduct and partake in the refresher trainings. Last summer we expanded and professionalized our whistle-blowing system as a viable tool aiming to prevent and fight against corruption, and ensure compliance with laws and industry or corporate standards. Since the introduction of the anonymous online whistle-blowing system developed by Business Keeper AG, no incident was reported by our employees. PAGE 23 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS FOR THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT October 2014 to September 2015 DATA SECURITY We treat all our clients' non-public information in strict confidentiality and keep proprie­tary and confidential information secure at all times. To ensure utmost security in all our elec­ tronic communications, our information and communication equipment – IT infra­structure, hardand software – fulfills highest security and technology standards. We operate our own IT infrastructure for business communication, using encrypted notebooks and secure Blackberry smartphones allowing for e-mail encryption. Furthermore, all Roland Berger employees have to know and comply with our IT User Policy which is part of the company's Code of Conduct and as such also subject of regular e-trainings. The IT User rules cover issues like password and access control, data protection, installing and using IT-equipment, using e-mail and the Internet, mobile working or the protection against malware. We do not use public cloud programs, such as freeware provided by Yahoo! or Google for our business communication. ACHIEVEMENT OF GOALS To demonstrate that the prevention of corruption is very important to us, we set a number of shortand mediumterm goals one year ago. GOALS COMMENT We wanted to introduce a process of carefully In the meantime we got the commitment by all screening our (new) clients concerning their countries to follow this rule. ethical standards. Additionally, we intended to implement a Since the standards for this topic are very detailed policy for giving and receiving gifts diverse across the different countries where by the end of 2015. we have operations, we decided not to intro­ duce a detailed policy for each country but stick to the general commitment stipulated in our Code of Conduct. GOALS FOR THE FUTURE In order to prevent corruption, we aim to realize the following: • We plan to introduce the topic into our leadership seminars to further establish sensitivity for potentially delicate situations and avoid any unethical behavior. PAGE 24 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS FOR THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT October 2014 to September 2015 The origin of our goals Summarizing the implementation status and the achievement of the goals set in the last Communication on Progress, we at Roland Berger GmbH still strive to constantly improve ourselves in our core business activities with respect to the four areas of the UN Global Compact. Thus, our future objectives are as following: Global Compact Goal Deadline Page area / issue Human Rights We want to keep the rate of successfully completed Sept. 2016 p. 8 e-trainings on the Code of Conduct at least on the same level. Human Rights We aim to further extend the number of stress management Sept. 2016 p. 8 seminars and want to pilot a one day refresher seminar. Labor Standards Increasing the number of female colleagues remains one of Dec. 2016 p. 14 our main objectives. We expect to reach our initial goal for 2014 of 15% female consultants by end of 2016. Labor Standards Our targets for 2020 are as following: 35% of female Dec. 2020 p. 14 applicants in all regions, a share of 25% woman in the group of Senior Consultants and Project Managers (first management level) and 20 new female Partners. Labor Standards Regarding the seminar program, we want to maintain the Sept. 2016 p. 14 current level of training days per employee and continuously provide up-to-date and relevant courses, using effective and high-quality teaching methods. Labor Standards Concerning the leadership assessment, for 2015/16 we plan Sept. 2016 p. 14 to achieve at least the same participation rates as 2014. Labor Standards We want to maintain or even increase the number of par­ Sept. 2016 p. 14 ticipants in the International Staff Exchange Program. Labor Standards In the months to come, we will pilot new evaluation pro­ Sept. 2016 p. 14 cesses, including new bottom-up leadership assessments, to improve the feedback quality, to make assessment more objectively and give even better development advice. Labor Standards We intend to become top 5 five employer in our industry in Dec. 2017 p. 14 the overall European ranking until 2017. Environment With the roll-out of a wider range of new video conference Dec. 2016 p. 20 equipment in 2016 we aim to constantly increase video con­ ferencing and reduce travel respectively. Environment We plan to further reduce the average CO2 emission of our Sept. 2016 p. 20 existing car lease fleet by 10%. Environment Overall, we strive to further encourage our employees to use Sept. 2016 p. 20 alternative – and more flexible – mobility offers instead of a fixed leasing car. Anti-corruption We plan to introduce the topic into our leadership seminars to Sept. 2016 p. 24 further establish sensitivity for potentially delicate situations and avoid any unethical behavior. PAGE 25 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS FOR THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT October 2014 to September 2015 Point of contact: Dr. Barbara Stahl Email: Barbara.Stahl@rolandberger.com Tel.: +49-69-29927-6209 © Roland Berger 2015 www.rolandberger.com
