Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 Company Overview.......................................................................................3 Sustainability in ABM Operations.......................................................12 Sustainability in ABM Services ............................................................16 ABM in the Community ...........................................................................22 ABM Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 | June 2015 | 2 Company Overview G4-1 Statement from the Most Senior As ABM’s new President 2014 under the more comprehensive G4 framework Decision-Maker of the Company and CEO, I have been a that identifies objective reporting criteria by a longtime advocate of our number of our stakeholders. sustainability mission. At As one of the largest facilities services providers in ABM, we are continually the world, ABM has a great opportunity to impact ‘Building Value’ for our the lives of thousands and do our part to leave the clients, shareholders, world a better place for future generations. We’re employees and the serious about our commitment to doing just that, communities in which we and I am thrilled and honored to work alongside my serve. Sustainability is at tremendous colleagues at ABM on that journey. the heart of that value we provide. Whether we’re streamlining efficiencies for clients, creating new jobs or giving back to our communities across the U.S. and internationally, ABM maintains a deep commitment to positively impact our shared Scott Salmirs environment and the people around us. President & CEO, ABM I am tremendously excited about the upcoming launch of our ‘ABM Cares’ program in 2015 and we look forward to reporting on its progress. ABM Cares will build upon existing initiatives, including our philanthropic efforts and ABM’s new wellness program designed to help our employees make healthier lifestyle choices – among a number of other critical endeavors. Under my leadership, ABM will remain committed to the UN Global Compact and we are proud to be part of this strategic policy initiative. This is an exciting time for ABM. We are a company that has seen substantial change in recent years, including our sustainability initiatives, and the best is certainly yet to come. We are proud to report in ABM Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 | June 2015 | 3 Company Overview G4-3 Name of the organization. Our Facility Services segment provides onsite systems and of access control devices and security mechanical engineering and technical services consulting services. ABM Industries Incorporated and solutions for facilities and infrastructure Our Building & Energy Solutions segment provides G4-4 Report the primary brands, systems for a variety of facilities, including custom energy solutions, HVAC, electrical, lighting products, and services. commercial office buildings and infrastructure, data and other general maintenance and repair services. centers, educational institutions, high technology ABM is a leading provider of end-to-end integrated These services include preventative maintenance, manufacturing facilities, museums, resorts, airports facility solutions to thousands of commercial, retro commissioning, installations, retrofits and other transportation centers, and shopping industrial, institutional, retail, residential, and and upgrades, environmental services, systems centers. These services are designed to extend governmental facilities located primarily throughout start-ups, performance testing, energy audits, the useful life of facility fixed assets, improve the United States. Our comprehensive capabilities mechanical and energy efficient products and equipment operating efficiencies, reduce energy include expansive facility solutions, energy solutions, solutions, and bundled energy solutions that include consumption, lower overall operational costs for commercial cleaning, maintenance and repair, energy savings performance contracts for a wide clients, and enhance the sustainability of client HVAC, electrical, landscaping, parking, security, and variety of clients in both the private and public locations. Facility services are provided in 42 states commercial aviation support services, which we sectors. This segment also provides services for and the District of Columbia, as well as in certain provide through stand-alone or integrated solutions. healthcare clients, including facility management, international locations. Following is a general description of the services we environmental services, food and nutrition provide, with reference to our reporting segments. Our Parking segment provides parking and services, and clinical technology management. It transportation services for clients at many also provides support to U.S. Government entities Our Janitorial segment provides a wide range facilities, including commercial office buildings, for specialty service solutions, such as military of essential janitorial services for a variety of airports and other transportation centers, base operations, public works departments, facilities, including commercial office buildings, educational institutions, health facilities, hotels, leadership development, education and training, educational institutions, government buildings, municipalities, retail centers, and stadiums energy efficiency management, healthcare support health facilities, industrial buildings, retail stores, and arenas. Parking services are provided in services, and construction management. These shopping centers, stadiums and arenas, airports 41 states and the District of Columbia. services are designed to extend the useful life of and other transportation centers, and warehouses. facility fixed assets, improve equipment operating These services include carpet cleaning and Our Security segment provides security services efficiencies, reduce energy consumption, lower dusting, floor cleaning and finishing, furniture for clients in a wide range of facilities, including overall operational costs for clients, and enhance polishing, window washing, and other building commercial office buildings and commercial, the sustainability of client locations. cleaning services. Janitorial services are provided health, industrial, petro-chemical, residential, and in all 50 states, the District of Columbia, and the retail facilities. Security services include security Air Serv provides facility solutions to clients in our Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, as well as in certain staffing, mobile patrol services, investigative aviation vertical related to passenger assistance, international locations. services, electronic monitoring of fire and life safety including wheelchair operations, aircraft cabin cleaning, janitorial services, shuttle bus operations, ABM Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 | June 2015 | 4 Company Overview and access control. Air Serv operates in 24 states G4-8 Report the markets served G4-9 Report the scale of the and the United Kingdom. organization, including: The markets referenced are US only except Brands that are also part of the ABM family. when specified. • Total number of employees: G4-5 Location of ABM’s headquarters. • Aviation & Transportation • Total number of operations: New York, NY • Banking & Financial Services • Net sales (for private sector organizations) or net revenues (for public sector organizations) : G4-6 Number of countries where • BioPharma the organization operates. Number of employees Approximately 118,000 • Commercial Buildings Net revenues $5,032.8 Primary operations occur in the United States. ABM • Golf Courses Total assets $116.0 operates in approximately 30 countries. Total liabilities $38.1 • Government Diluted earnings per share $1.32 G4-7 Report the nature of ownership and legal form. • Healthcare Support Services Dollar amounts in millions, except per share ABM is incorporated under the laws of the State amounts. Information relates to ABM’s the fiscal • High-Tech of Delaware and is a publicly traded company, year ending October 31, 2014. governed by a board of directors. The New York • Higher Education G4-10 Report the total number of employees Stock Exchange is the principal market for ABM • Hospitality by employment contract and gender. common stock [NYSE: ABM] • Improvement Districts • Report the total number of permanent employees The person or entities known to ABM to be by employment type and gender. beneficial owners of more than 5% of the shares of • Industrial & Manufacturing ABM common stock as of December 31, 2014 are set • Report the total workforce by employees and forth below. This disclosure is based on a review of • K-12 Schools supervised workers and by gender. Schedule 13G filings and Schedule 13D filings. • Residential Employee % % Age Age Age Total • Bank of America Corporation, directly and on Breakdown* Male Female <30 30-50 >50 • Retail behalf of certain subsidiaries Mgt 7,402 60% 40% 9% 53% 38% • Senior Living Non-Mgt 110,150 57% 43% 23% 44% 33% • Blackrock, Inc. *as of Dec. 31, 2014 • Sports & Entertainment • Lord Michael Ashcroft • Vanguard Group, Inc. ABM Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 | June 2015 | 5 Company Overview Employee Union* and Employment Status Breakdown* Group Limited, a leading provider Directors receives regular reports from the Risk Employees Union Non-Union Full-time Part-time of facilities services for various Management Committee and work to assure 117,552 56% 44% 71% 29% retail, leisure, public sector, and that the policies and procedures designed and commercial clients throughout the implemented by management are consistent with * The data presented in this table is as of December 31, 2014. U.K. With headquarters in London, the Company’s strategy and risk appetite and are this acquisition provides us with opportunity to functioning as directed. G4-11 Collective bargaining agreements. accelerate our growth strategy throughout the U.K. ABM continues to move forward with the ABM is party to approximately 160 active collective Other updates relating to sustainable services since integration of sustainability into our business bargaining agreements across the U.S. These our last report include: strategy following the four key principles: collective bargaining agreements are periodically renegotiated through bargaining with labor • In fiscal year 2014, we acquired Airco • Responsibility in the workplace relates to a broad representatives, and set terms for wages, benefits Commercial Services, Inc. (“Airco”) range of items including labor standards, talent and other terms and conditions of employment. For a Northern California provider of management, diversity and inclusion, employee single-site collective bargaining agreements, ABM HVAC service, energy solutions, and training and safety, and employee health; bargains directly with labor representatives. For building controls in commercial and area-wide agreements, ABM frequently bargains in • Responsibility in the marketplace revolves around industrial buildings. a group of employers who are covered by the same client safety, service quality, responsible sourcing agreement. • In fiscal year 2014, we and supply chain management, and proper and acquired the service responsible marketing practices; G4-13 Significant changes during assets of Alpha Mechanical, Inc., a leading the reporting period. • Responsibility in the environment is centered on provider of HVAC service, energy solutions, our energy and resource efficiency, reducing or building controls, plumbing service, and process In fiscal 2014, we completed all of the essential eliminating drains on the environments we share piping in commercial, life science, education, and elements of our internal reorganization and and reusing or repurposing products we use and municipal government buildings. alignment to foster collaboration and increase distribute to maximize their lifecycle; and organic sales growth across our operating G4-14 Report whether and how the segments. We also continued to make meaningful • Responsibility in the community is the culmination precautionary approach or principle progress in expanding service offerings and our of the first three principals as those feed directly is addressed by the organization. client base within strategic vertical markets. into how we affect the public at large within our Enterprise risks are reviewed by ABM’s Enterprise circle of influence. To complement our organic growth and further Risk Management Committee on a periodic basis. enhance our business platform, we completed Our operations are subject to various federal, state This committee includes divisional and functional three strategic acquisitions in fiscal 2014. In and/or local laws regulating discharge of materials leadership. The Management Committee identifies October, we acquired GBM Support Services into the environment or otherwise relating to the key enterprise risks. The Company’s Board of protection of the environment, such as discharge ABM Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 | June 2015 | 6 Company Overview into soil, water, and air, and the generation, handling, G4-16 List memberships of associations • International Downtown Association (IDA) storage, transportation, and disposal of waste and We are a member of numerous trade and industry • International Facility Management Association hazardous substances. These laws generally have groups. Our group memberships include: (IFMA) the effect of increasing costs and potential liabilities associated with the conduct of our operations. • Stadium Managers Association • Airports Council International (ACI) Historically, the cost of complying with environmental laws or resolving environmental issues relating to • National Parking Association (NPA) • Institute of Real Estate Management (IREM) United States locations or operations has not had • Building Owners and Managers Association (BOMA) G4-17 ABM’s consolidated financial statements a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. • Healthcare Information and Management ABM annually discloses a list of all consolidated Systems Association (HIMMS) subsidiaries as of the fiscal year-end in Exhibit 21 ABM holds its suppliers and contractors to a high to ABM’s Annual Report on Form 10-K. ABM’s 2014 standard. ABM is committed to complying with all • American College of Healthcare Executives Annual Report on Form 10-K was filed with the SEC laws prohibiting child labor, including adherence • National School Boards Association (NSBA) on December 17, 2014. to minimum age provisions of applicable laws and regulations. This includes ABM’s internal G4-18 Process for defining the report • Professional Retail Store Maintenance (PRSM) workforce and our suppliers. ABM also requires its content and the Aspect Boundaries. subcontractors to commit to proper treatment of • International Council of Shopping Centers (ICSC) their workers, specifically including Human Rights Corporate Sustainability Reporting and Freedom of Association. Company policy • Association for the Advancement of Medical Instrumentation (AAMI) Our approach to sustainability is based upon prohibits the hiring of any minor under age 18. addressing known and perceived stakeholder needs. G4-15 Externally developed economic, • American Association of Airport Executives With ABM’s primary stakeholders being clients, environmental and social charters, (AAAE) employees, shareholders and the communities principles, or other initiatives to in which we serve, people drive our strategy, • Green Sports Alliance which the organization subscribes and understanding the varied and sometimes or which it endorses. • American Society for Healthcare Engineering intertwined needs of these groups is paramount to (ASHE) the success of ABM’s sustainability program. UN Global Compact • National Association of College and University Readers can send feedback, comments or questions Green Parking Council regarding our sustainability plans and progress Business Officers (NACUBO) to ABM’s Corporate Communications team at Green Sports Alliance – Green Cleaning Playbook • North Central Healthcare Alliance (NCHA) sustainability@abm.com. We welcome your insights Healthcare without Harm on how we can meet our shared commitment to a • International Association of Venue Managers sustainable world. (IAVM) ABM Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 | June 2015 | 7 Company Overview Report Parameters • Sustainability in ABM Operations G4-21 For each material Aspect, report the Aspect Boundary outside This is ABM’s fifth Sustainability Report and covers • Sustainability in ABM Services the organization, as follows: activities related to our 2014 fiscal year that ended • Our People • Report whether the Aspect is material outside of October 31, 2014. The development of this report evolved from various internal discussions with key • Social Responsibility the organization stakeholders as well as a materiality assessment • If the Aspect is material outside of the following the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4-19 List all the material Aspects identified in organization, identify the entities, groups of framework. An index of the GRI indicators and the process for defining report content. entities or elements for which the Aspect is metrics is provided here, linking the applicable material. In addition, describe the geographical topics with the corresponding page(s). For the and location where the Aspect is material for the fourth year in a row, we submitted our report to the G4-20  For each material Aspect, report entities identified Centre for Sustainability and Excellence (CSE) for an independent audit assessment. the Aspect Boundary within the • Report any specific limitation regarding the organization, as follows: Aspect Boundary outside the organization Finally, we will continue to update this report each fiscal year; other key company information • Report whether the Aspect is material within the For ABM, a topic is of material interest if it is can be found in our filings with the Securities organization considered relevant based on ABM stakeholders and Exchange Commission (SEC), and can be feedback as well as our own perspective. • If the Aspect is not material for all entities within accessed in our Investor Relations pages. The the organization (as described in G4-17), select ABM Corporate Sustainability Report covers one of the following two approaches and report the corporate activities and services provided either: by ABM and its subsidiaries throughout North America and various international locations. The -T he list of entities or groups of entities included report is designed to introduce ABM, our services, in G4-17 for which the Aspect is not material or and organizational structure. We identify our T he list of entities or groups of entities included key impacts, risks and opportunities relating to in G4-17 for which the Aspects is material our corporate sustainability initiatives, and the primary stakeholders for whom our sustainability • Report any specific limitation regarding the commitment is most impactful. We also discuss our Aspect Boundary within the organization governance for ensuring we perform with utmost integrity on behalf of our stakeholders. Also critical to our sustainability platform are: ABM Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 | June 2015 | 8 Company Overview G4-25 Report the basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage. and G4-26 Report the organization’s approach to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder group, and an indication of whether any of the engagement was undertaken specifically as part of the report preparation process. Key stakeholders: clients, employees, shareholders and the communities in which we serve. With ABM’s services are generally provided at our clients’ locations, and are often an integral part of our clients’ sustainability integration (e.g. – cleaning, facility maintenance, energy conservation, security, safety, etc.). Therefore, our approach to sustainability begins within ABM’s service offerings and solutions. Our next known need was identified as ABM’s portion G4-24  Provide a List of Stakeholder Groups within our clients’ supply chain. While not a carbon Engaged by the Organization. intensive company, the decision to identify and track ABM identifies our stakeholders as our clients, our emission levels using Greenhouse Gas (GHG) employees, shareholders and the communities in Protocol toolsets and thinking of our company’s role, which we serve. risks and potential gains in relation to climate change brought Sustainability integration out of merely a service element and into a business component. Our employees continue to be the driving force behind everything we do at ABM, and we seek to ABM Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 | June 2015 | 9 Company Overview deliver value for our shareholders each day. Finally, • Reframed and repositioned some issues to reflect G4-31 Provide the contact point for questions ABM feels a keen sense of responsibility to operate Management feedback and produce a finalize regarding the report or its contents. responsibly both for and within the communities in version of the matrix Readers can send feedback, comments or questions which we operate and serve. Materiality Assessment by Stakeholder Group regarding our sustainability plans and progress G4-27 Report key topics and concerns to ABM’s Corporate Communications team at ABM employees: sustainability@abm.com. that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the High Medium G4-32 GRI Content Index organization has responded to those Employment/Customer H&S Indirect economic impact key topics and concerns, including Non-discrimination Investment GRI G4 through its reporting. Report the Diversity/Anti-Corruption Security practices stakeholder groups that raised each G4-33 ABM’s policy and current practice Training and education/Product Emissions of the key topics and concerns. labeling with regard to seeking external Anti-competitive Behavior Environmental assurance for the report. In 2014, ABM sought feedback from major investments stakeholders, including various employees, clients For the fourth year in a row, we submitted our report Economic performance Market presence and vendor partners in order to complete a new to the Centre for Sustainability and Excellence Compliance Grievance mechanisms materiality assessment on critical sustainability (CSE) for an independent audit assessment. Water, Waste Investment reporting categories. The table below identifies the Energy Transport Equal remuneration Governance reporting categories by level of significance – based Health & Safety/Customer Privacy on stakeholder feedback. Governance G4-28 Reporting period For ABM, a topic is of material interest if it is • Committee Composition considered relevant based on ABM stakeholders Unless otherwise indicated, this report covers our 2014 fiscal year which ended October 31, 2014. • Directors feedback as well as our own perspective. We went through the following process: • Governance Documents G4-29 Date of most recent previous •R eviewed best practice approaches to materiality report (if any). At ABM, our governance structure, along with our and the approaches of our peers Code of Business Conduct, provide the framework Fiscal 2013 (November 1, 2012 through October 31, 2013) for us to serve our clients, stakeholders and •C onsulted a cross-section of key stakeholders employees with integrity. ABM’s Board of Directors from across our business to define a list of G4-30 Reporting cycle (such as is responsible for overseeing the business and material issues and prioritize these into high, annual, biennial). strategy of the Company. ABM currently has 9 medium and low importance directors, including our Chief Executive Officer. All •P resented a draft materiality matrix Annual of our directors, other than our Chief Executive ABM Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 | June 2015 | 10 Company Overview Officer, are independent. One of our independent G4-56 Values, principles, standards ABM offers a comprehensive benefits directors serves as Chairman of the Board. and norms of behavior. package to meet the diverse needs of our full-time employees. The benefits offered ABM’s Audit Committee oversees the Company’s Code of Business Conduct generally include: medical, dental, vision, life financial reporting process and assists the Board ABM Vision & Core Values and disability along with a 401(k) plan. with respect to the Company’s compliance with legal and regulatory requirements. In addition to its G4-EC1 Direct Economic Value other responsibilities, the Audit Committee reviews Generated And Distributed G4-EC4 Financial assistance received policies with respect to risk management and the Financial information can found in ABM’s 2014 Form from government. Company’s major financial risk exposures. 10-K. ABM does not receive significant financial ABM’s Compensation Committee has responsibility G4-EC2 Financial Implications And assistance from any host government. for providing direction to the Company in the area of executive compensation, and monitors Other Risks And Opportunities potential risks that may be associated with ABM’s Due To Climate Change compensation programs. Our operations are subject to various federal, state ABM’s Governance Committee is responsible for and/or local laws regulating discharge of materials identifying qualified candidates for membership on into the environment or otherwise relating to the the Board and for developing and recommending protection of the environment, such as discharge to the Board corporate governance principles and into soil, water, and air, and the generation, handling, policies. storage, transportation, and disposal of waste and hazardous substances. These laws generally have ABM’s Corporate Citizenship and Communications the effect of increasing costs and potential liabilities Committee is responsible for providing oversight associated with the conduct of our operations. and advice with respect to various matters, including Historically, the cost of complying with environmental sustainability and environmental and green energy laws or resolving environmental issues relating to issues as well as health and safety issues. United States locations or operations has not had a material adverse effect on our financial position, More information about ABM’s governance results of operations, or cash flows. structure can be found in ABM’s 2015 Proxy Statement that was filed with the SEC on February 4, 2015. Additional information concerning our Board and governance can also be found at http:// G4-EC3 ABM’s Defined Benefit Plan Obligations investor.abm.com. ABM Employee Benefits ABM Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 | June 2015 | 11 Sustainability in ABM Operations ABM is keenly focused on how our facilities and Actual data was gathered through our online survey operations affect our shared environment. Just when available. For offices that did not have readily as we are Building Value for clients through worldavailable data or the electricity is included within class services, we continually seek to enhance our CAM charges, estimations were made based upon organizational efficiencies and reduce ABM’s own similar sized offices of the same region or previous carbon footprint across the enterprise. Every day, year data (if available). we walk the sustainability talk. EN-6 Report the amount of reductions For all of your targets, please G4-EN3 Energy Consumption in energy consumption achieved provide details on the progress as a direct result of conservation made in the reporting year. MWh and efficiency initiatives Electricity 17981 ID % complete % complete Comment (time) (emissions) Motor Gasoline 180640 ABM has committed to reducing our metric tons Int1 14.2% 12.87% Diesel 7663 of CO2E per FTE Equivalent by 15% from our 2011 Biogasoline 132 year baseline by 2020. The types of energy included Natural Gas 9963 in the reductions include purchased electricity, fleet fuel usage and natural gas used at our office The Greenhouse Gas Protocol: A Corporate locations. Accounting and Reporting Standard (Revised Edition) ID Scope % of % reduction Metric Base Normalized Target Comment Data of natural gas use in leased offices was emissions in from base year base year year scope year emissions gathered through a survey. Offices in which the Int1 Scope 1+2 100% 15% metric 2011 58120.15 2020 ABM has utilities are included in CAM were estimated based tonnes committed to upon similarity to other known offices of that size CO2e reducing our per FTE metric tons of and region of the country. Fleet data of gallons of employee CO2E per FTE Equivalent by fuel used by vehicle, by model year were analyzed. 15% from our Fuel purchases not directly assigned to a specific 2011 year. vehicle were calculated as a Light-Duty Vehicle (small truck/van) as that is our primary vehicle type. ABM Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 | June 2015 | 12 Sustainability in ABM Operations G4-EN15 Direct Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Scope 2 Actual electricity data was gathered G4-EN8, 9, 10 Emissions (Scope 1) through our online survey when available. For While ABM strives to minimize our water usage in offices that did not have readily available data or and the delivery of services (e.g. – Microfiber, Automatic the electricity is included within CAM charges, Scrubbing versus Pressure Washing, etc.) our water G4-EN16 E  nergy Indirect Greenhouse Gas estimations were made based upon similar sized usage is primarily under the client’s control as (GHG) Emissions (Scope 2) offices of the same region or previous year data (if required by the specifications within our contracts. available). and Additionally, as our service delivery occurs at our Scope 3 Employee Air Travel Miles, by passenger client’s locations we do not have the ability to G4-EN17 Other Indirect Greenhouse Gas mile, by flight length <300, 300 1000, >1000 miles separately meter our usage from the client’s usage. (GHG) Emissions (Scope 3) acquired through centralized booking. Added in 2014 was the mileage of aviation service fleet vehicles ABM’s direct and indirect GHG Emissions from 2014 (buses, trucks, etc.) input into the GHG Protocol are listed in the below table: Transport tool. The actual gallons used was not able 2014 2013 to be tracked as the client supplies the fuel at their Scope 1 CO2 e Tonnes 47,763 48,007 own fuel stations. Mileage per gallon estimated via Scope 2 CO2 e Tonnes 9,696 10,181 percentage of vehicle types. Scope 3 CO2 e Tonnes 27,272 1,706 Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emissions Intensity Fuel used MWh 198,398 199,058 Electricity Used MWh 17,981 19,333 a. Report the GHG emissions intensity ratio. Scope 1 Data of natural gas use in leased offices b. Report the organization-specific metric (the ratio was gathered through a survey. Offices in which the denominator) chosen to calculate the ratio. utilities are included in CAM were estimated based upon similarity to other known offices of that size c. Report the types of GHG emissions included in and region of the country. Fleet data of gallons of the intensity ratio: direct (Scope 1), energy indirect fuel used by vehicle, by model year were analyzed. (Scope 2), other indirect (Scope 3). Fuel purchases not directly assigned to a specific d. Report gases included in the calculation. vehicle were calculated as a Light-Duty Vehicle (small truck/van) as that is our primary vehicle type. ABM Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 | June 2015 | 13 Sustainability in ABM Operations G4-EN23 Waste G4-EN29 Monetary fines from Significant Environmental Sanctions State/ Paper Trees Water Saved Landfill Energy (kWh) Province Recovered (Gallons) Space No known environmental fines Saved Avoided (yds) G4-PR7 T  otal Number of Incidents of NonArizona 0.802 13.458 21,983.62 4.01 1,812.52 Compliance With Regulations California 11.453 192.181 313,938.18 57.265 25,883.78 and Voluntary Codes Concerning Florida 1.679 28.174 46,023.07 8.395 3,794.54 Marketing Communications, Illinois 4.937 82.843 135,328.11 24.685 11,157.62 Including Advertising, Promotion, and Iowa 2.338 39.232 64,086.92 11.69 5,283.88 Sponsorship, By Type of Outcomes Oregon 0.137 2.299 3,755.31 0.685 309.62 Texas 33.56 563.237 920,077.63 167.83 75,859.16 ABM’s business-to-business marketing practices Washington 3.164 53.092 86,728.40 15.82 7,150.64 continue to be compliant with the ICC International Total 58.076 974.516 1,591,921.24 290.38 131,251,760 Code of Advertising, where applicable, as it relates to advertising and marketing communication in its entirety. This includes: ABM Supply Chain • Responsible messaging (i.e., legal, decent, honest ABM uses strategically located distributors, alternative energy components, fleet vehicles, and truthful) defined for the appropriate targeted providing an efficient locally-based way for our landscape materials) and suppliers for external audiences. employees to order and receive the products used marketing and communications (consultants, printing, materials). • Sourced technical data and statistics that are in our daily service delivery to clients. Having substantiated, and include the ABM brand name, strategic local vendors placed near various urban value proposition, and contact information. locations enables ABM to minimize the Company’s impact of transporting machines, cleaning materials, • An established review process by Corporate et al. between work sites. Marketing, Legal, internal subject-matter-experts and executive management for ensuring the ABM’s suppliers fall into several categories. These company represents itself appropriately and with include suppliers for internal operations (office goodwill. supplies, Information Technology, communications, utilities, etc.), suppliers for products used in our • Application for and ongoing maintenance and services (cleaning chemicals, cleaning equipment, documentation of company trademarks that paper and plastic liner products, engineering HVAC, are properly applied for and managed by our ABM Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 | June 2015 | 14 Sustainability in ABM Operations Corporate Marketing and Legal departments G4-EN30 Significant environmental impacts of Electronic Pay through the U.S Patent & Trademark Office. transporting products and other goods and materials for the organization’s • 79% of ABM employees are participants in the • Copyrighting of all marketing communications operations, and transporting ABM Electronic Pay platform – providing a more on the company website, which includes industry members of the workforce. secure, convenient, less costly and timely method expert articles/white papers and sustainability of pay distribution. This was the most ever at processes. ABM surveyed our distribution partners to identify ABM. what they were implementing to minimize the • The truthful depiction of safety and health environmental impacts related to transporting the Electronic Pay Advices practices in images (e.g., of ABM employees in necessary products and equipment to our client FY 2014 was the second year that we eliminated the action) used for marketing communications. locations. The results of this survey show that printing and distribution of over 1,345,000 pieces of • Adhering to ABM’s data privacy protection policy, the number one implementation was upgrading paper via the electronic/online pay advice program which discloses data collection methods (i.e., data and updating their truck fleets to more efficient collected automatically, “cookie,” volunteered models which resulted in improved fuel mileage, information). The policy is posted on the company implementation of Diesel Exhaust Fluid to reduce web site. exhaust emissions, low rolling resistance tires and regular maintenance to ensure the fleet operated ABM has no reported incidents of non-compliance as intended by the manufacturers. Additionally the with regulations and voluntary codes concerning implementation of no-idle policies minimized the marketing communications, including advertising, exhaust emitted during deliveries. promotion, and sponsorship, by type of outcomes. The second most implemented item was route G4-PR8 Total Number of Substantiated software to ensure the most efficient route Complaints Regarding Breaches and delivery schedules. This also improved fuel of Customer Privacy and usage and maximized loads to the vehicle used. Losses of Customer Data Distributors also implemented and maintained recycling programs for the shrink wrap, cardboard In 2014, ABM had two known data breaches and pallets used in their operations. Most of our involving client locations. One involved our Parking partners also implemented building improvements operations at Orlando International Airport and to increase the efficiency of their warehousing the other involved our Parking operations in nine operations to minimize their use of electricity and Chicago lots. natural gas in operations. ABM Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 | June 2015 | 15 Sustainability in ABM Services We’ve built our strong reputation by continually • Parking: ABM’s customized mobile app, pay by Janitorial GreenCare® striving to improve upon our client service offerings phone option, and web services help drivers spend less time in their cars. ABM GreenCare® services surpassed 420 million through our ABM GreenCare® program. As part of square feet of implementation in 2014, 220 million the program, we actively work with our clients on a • Security: Round-the-clock technology helps ABM square feet of which is LEED® certified. Just as is wide range of these efforts, from energy reduction manage security communications in a paperless the case across our entire line of services, ABM to green cleaning and LEED® certification. environment; ABM security guards use electric or Janitorial is utilizing technology to upgrade our ABM GreenCare® hybrid vehicles at many sites. sustainable offerings. This includes electrically activated water systems that produce general ABM GreenCare® helps clients make improvements • Landscape & Turf: ABM utilizes alternative fuel cleaning and sanitizing solutions from water, salt in four key areas: environmental and social and water-efficient irrigation systems to help and electricity. These allow ABM to produce safe, responsibility, employee productivity and retention, keep clients’ properties sustainable. non-toxic daily cleaning solutions onsite and reduce property protection and fiscal responsibility. This ABM’s commitment to measuring its own packaging, transportation and storage issues program’s offerings span our Janitorial, Energy, performance has led to some eye-opening statistics associated with traditional chemicals. Parking, Security and Landscaping businesses. relating to its clients’ sustainability efforts, including: Some of the key value-adds the GreenCare® ABM continues to identify new products and program offers ABM clients include: • ABM GreenCare has been implemented at over methods to operate more efficiently for our 950 buildings, totaling more than 420 million clients and stay on the forefront of sustainable • Janitorial: Green cleaning programs with Green square feet across the United States. practices and new innovations in cleaning methods Seal certified equipment and chemicals to and equipment. Through our strong, established improve indoor environmental quality for building • ABM has assisted 220 million square feet worth relationships with industry-leading supply, chemical occupants; recycling programs and touchof client buildings with products and procedures and raw material manufacturers we are actively free water conservation; LEED® certification to maintain certification through the Leadership implementing new solutions such as: assistance for clients. in Energy and Environmental Design™ (LEED®) rating system. • Bio-based cleaning alternatives • Energy: ABM’s energy conservation methods for clients include its Bundled Energy Solutions • ABM’s Bundled Energy Solutions program • Specialized cleaning solutions for various surface Program, Electric Vehicle (EV) Charging reduced clients’ energy use by over 21 percent types that increase productivity Station installation and maintenance and solar saving them over $30M. • Electrically Activated Water Cleaning Solutions capabilities for fixed/reduced energy costs. • ABM has installed over 3,000 EV charging stations across the United States with many more As a member of the U.S. Green Building Council® expected in 2014. (USGBC®), we continue to offer specific products ABM Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 | June 2015 | 16 Sustainability in ABM Services and procedures for buildings to maintain EV Charging Parking GreenCare certification through the Leadership in Energy & ABM continued to build on our leadership position ABM’s parking application for smart phones and Environmental Design (LEED®) Rating system. in installing and maintaining EV charging stations mobile devices now allows drivers to quickly and Sum of Gross Square Footage (in million) in 2014. We are one of the largest commercial EV easily make reservations – this is in addition to its LEED® Certified 220,000,000 infrastructure installers in the country and one previous features that have been helping drivers of the nation’s largest resellers and installation find the airport, pinpoint available spaces, and park Initial Phase 140,200,000 partners for ChargePoint®, which has 70%+ share of their cars since 2013. LEED Registered ® 62,900,000 all networked charging stations. Grand Total 423,100,000 G4-EN7 Reductions In Energy Requirements Number of LEED Certified Buildings Total ® 978 Our 2014 growth in the EV market was substantial of Products and Services as we ended the year with over 3,000 ports we’ve Energy GreenCare® a. R eport the reductions in the energy requirements installed or maintain. Last year, we announced of sold products and services achieved during the ABM was selected by BMW of North America as its ABM’s energy business saw a number of firsts reporting period, in joules or multiples. preferred EV charging station supplier, installation through our Bundled Energy Solutions program, our and service partner for its BMW i Centers across b. Report the basis for calculating reductions electric vehicle (EV) installation and maintenance North America. Each of the charging stations is part in energy consumption such as base year or capabilities, and our enhanced expertise in the solar of the ChargePoint® network. BMW released the baseline, and the rationale for choosing it. market in 2014. company’s first full production, all-electric vehicle, Bundled Energy Solutions Program the BMW i3, in early 2014, with the BMW i8 to c. Report standards, methodologies, and following later this past year. ABM installed BMW assumptions used. Our BES program packages energy retrofit services i branded ChargePoint® charging stations for over and costs into a turnkey offering with guaranteed ABM’s Bundled Energy Solutions program has 300 participating BMW i locations. energy savings that are then used to finance the reduced our clients’ energy use by 21.5%, saving project. To-date, ABM has reduced our clients’ Solar Energy Firsts them $30+ million. energy and operating costs by over $30 million. In 2014, ABM announced a 2WM installation for Building Value through Our People Over the next 10 years, we expect to reduce their Cornell University, the Ivy League institution’s first costs by over $100 million. Our financing solution, Our people continue to be the driving force behind large-scale solar endeavor. combined with our exceptional technical expertise, everything we do at ABM. We take tremendous has kept demand high for our offerings. Key among pride in our skilled and knowledgeable workforce. our fiscal 2014 Bundled Energy Solutions contracts Spanning our wide array of service solutions and was a partnership with Colquitt County Schools in in a diverse set of markets, we firmly believe that Georgia that is expected to save the K-12 education our rich diversity of expertise and experience is client $19 million over the life of the contract. unmatched anywhere. ABM Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 | June 2015 | 17 Sustainability in ABM Services G4-LA1 Total Number and Rates of New Serious Disease Prevention Here are some additional programs that have been Employee Hires and Employee Turnover added: By Age Group, Gender and Region Through our health plan partners, we offer the following for covered employees and their families: • Healthy Weight program Turnover Data as of 10-31-14 • Disease management programs which assist • Mynurseline-24 hour nurse line program Annualized Turnover members in the management of their chronic • Healthy Back program Overall Voluntary Involuntary medical conditions such as Coronary Artery Enterprise 57.5% 30.1% 27.4% Disease, Diabetes and Congestive Heart Failure • Wellness coaching Corporate 18.4% 9.9% 8.8% Shared Services 23.9% 17.4% 6.5% • Transplant solution programs that provide • Healthy pregnancy program Facilities Services 30.2% 11.8% 18.3% specialized networks and support to members AIR Serv Omni Serv 70.9% 27.6% 43.3% • Care for Diabetes requiring transplant services Building & Energy 40.3% 28.3% 12% Solutions • Health classes • Health and Wellness coaching programs such as Janitorial 59.4% 31.6% 27.8% smoking cessation. Includes monetary incentive • Overcoming insomnia class Parking 37.4% 23.9% 13.5% to complete a Health Risk Assessment. Security 65.3% 37% 28.3% • Care for your back Staff & Mgmt 26.4% 14.6% 11.8% • Complex case management services which assist Service 59.5% 31.1% 28.4% and coordinate the care of members with serious • Overcoming depression and complex medical issues. G4-LA2 Benefits • Nourish-nutritional counseling • A 24-hour nurse line that assists with nonABM Employee Benefits • Free will preparation if enrolled in life insurance medical emergencies ABM offers a comprehensive benefits package to meet the diverse needs of our full-time employees. The benefits offered include: medical, dental, vision, life and disability and a 401(k) plan. Note: Service Worker and union workers benefits are provided consistent with their employment and/ or client contract. ABM Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 | June 2015 | 18 Sustainability in ABM Services G4-LA6 Type of Injury and Rates of Injury, Occupational Diseases, Lost Days, and Absenteeism, and Total Number of Work-Related Fatalities, By Region and By Gender Case Classification Case Classification Business Super Claimant Days Away Death Job Other Grand Business Super Claimant Days Away Death Job Other Grand Segment Region Gender From Work Transfer or Recordable Total Segment Region Gender From Work Transfer or Recordable Total Restriction Cases Restriction Cases Onsite Division Female 2 8 11 21 Aviation Central Female 8 9 42 59 Overhead Region Male 7 10 7 24 Male 7 5 37 49 Division 9 18 18 45 Central 15 14 79 108 Overhead Region Total Total Eastern Female 13 38 61 112 Onsite Female 114 83 94 291 Region Male 8 22 24 54 Midwest Male 72 50 74 196 Eastern 21 60 85 166 Onsite 186 133 168 487 Region Total Midwest Western Female 9 25 32 66 Total Region Male 6 25 19 50 Onsite Female 105 79 83 267 Northeast Western 15 50 51 116 Male 151 1 66 109 327 Region Total Onsite 256 1 145 192 594 Aviation Total 51 124 215 390 Northeast Total Building ABM Female 11 11 24 46 and Energy Healthcare Onsite South Female 78 149 130 357 Male 2 5 10 17 Solutions Support Central Unknown 1 1 Male 71 156 109 336 Service Unknown 13 72 35 120 ABM 13 16 35 64 Healthcare Onsite South 162 377 274 813 Support Central Total Service Total Onsite West Female 171 177 122 470 Building and Energy Solutions Total 13 16 35 64 Male 127 152 102 381 Grand Total 975 1 1142 1126 3244 Onsite West 298 329 224 851 OSHA Rates 1.15 2.5 3.83 Total Onsite Total 911 1 1002 876 2790 ABM Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 | June 2015 | 19 Sustainability in ABM Services G4-LA9 Average Hours of Training Per business ethics, professional development courses, G4-HR5 O  perations and Suppliers Identified Year Per Employee By Gender, and contractual training agreements are also as Having Significant Risk for and By Employee Category offered by ABM to its large client-base. Incidents of Child Labor, and Measures Taken to Contribute to the Approximately ten hours of training are devoted G4-LA11 Percentage of Employees Receiving Effective Abolition of Child Labor to 25% of ABM leadership and management Regular Performance and Career level employees while 80% of ABM service level Development Reviews, By Gender and employees devote 25 hours on average to training and By Employee Category G4-HR6 Operations and Suppliers Identified annually. as Having Significant Risk for Performance Review Data G4-LA10 P  rograms for Skills Management Division # of Performance Reviews Incidents of Forced or Compulsory and Lifelong Learning that Support on SP site as of 1/27/15 Labor, and Measures to Contribute the Continued Employability of AirServ 109 to the Elimination of All Forms of Employees and Assist Them in Corporate 216 Forced or Compulsory Labor Managing Career Endings Facility Services Group 85 Janitorial 839 Diversity and Human Rights a. R  eport on the type and scope of programs Parking 444 implemented and assistance provided to upgrade Security 87 Founded on the company’s core values of respect, employee skills. Grand Total 1782 integrity, collaboration, innovation and excellence, ABM recognizes that diversity and inclusion, and b. Report on the transition assistance programs G4-LA12 C  omposition of Governance Bodies how we treat each other, provide distinct business provided to facilitate continued employability and and Breakdown of Employees advantages. In an increasingly global marketplace, the management of career endings resulting from Per Employee Category it is important that the rich experiences, retirement or termination of employment. backgrounds and skills of our diverse employee Employee Union* and Employment Status Breakdown* Various learning and development programs at ABM population are fully embraced to help us meet the Employees Union Non-Union Full-time Part-time include training on ABM’s Code of Business Conduct, various needs of our clients. 117,552 50% 50% 71% 29% harassment prevention training, wage and hour Our pledge to diversity and inclusion reflects our training, supervisor training, safety training, and Diversity and Inclusion Stats* commitment to equal employment opportunity and other on the job training. Total % % Age Age Age affirmative action. ABM will not discriminate on Male Female <30 30-50 >50 All ABM management level employees are eligible the basis of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, Board 9 66% 34% 100% to participate in the goal setting process and attend age, creed, sexual orientation, disability, ancestry, MGT 7,402 60% 40% 9% 53% 38% corporate sponsored training courses in addition to marital or veteran status, or any other protected Non-Mgt 110,150 57% 43% 23% 4% 33% courses offered at the divisional level nationwide status covered by law. Company policy prohibits the emphasizing customer service, safety practices, *as of Dec. 31, 2014 hiring of any minor under age 18. ABM Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 | June 2015 | 20 Sustainability in ABM Services ABM also has Affirmative Action programs and G4-SO3 T  otal Number and Percentage of G4-PR2 T  otal Number of Incidents of Nonpolicies — including proactive outreach efforts — Operations Assessed for Risks Compliance With Regulations which are designed to create equal employment Related to Corruption and the and Voluntary Codes Concerning opportunities for all, including individuals with Significant Risks Identified the Health and Safety Impacts of disabilities, veterans, women and minorities. and Products and Services During Their Life Cycle, By Type of Outcomes Additionally, ABM holds its suppliers and G4-SO4 Communication and Training on Anticontractors to a high standard. ABM is committed Corruption Policies and Procedures For FY14, ABM received 10 OSHA Citations. to complying with all laws prohibiting child labor, ABM’s attention to safety and aggressive claim including adherence to minimum age provisions of ABM’s annual Code of Business Conduct and management has resulted in its most recently applicable laws and regulations. This includes ABM’s Anti-Harassment Training are required for all published Experience Mod Rating (EMR) to .82. internal workforce and our suppliers. ABM also staff and management employees – our Code of These efforts help reduce ABM’s OSHA Days Away requires its subcontractors to commit to proper Business Conduct was last updated in September From Work (DAFW) 10% on top of the 31% reduction treatment of their workers, specifically including 2014. The Code of Business Conduct training tool we saw in 2013. Restricted Activity or Job Transfer Human Rights and Freedom of Association. also has been modified and updated to include increased 16%. questions specifically concerning anti-bribery and anti-corruption compliance, political contributions, personal relationships, information systems usage and the overall ethical environment at ABM. ABM Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 | June 2015 | 21 ABM in the Community ABM is committed to operating under a core set of ABM 2014 Client Awards ABM provides janitorial, engineering and parking fundamental values: services for the Irvine Company across their ABM Honored with Superior Partnership Award by expansive operations that include: campus office, • Respect the Irvine Company LLC retail, high-rise office, apartments, and their exclusive resort division. As one of only six service • Integrity On February 6, 2014, ABM was invited to accept the partners invited to be in attendance, this was a award for “Superior Partner” at the first ever Irvine terrific honor for ABM. • Collaboration Company Cross Divisional Service Partner Awards ceremony. The event honored Irvine Company New York/New Jersey Airports Honor ABM • Innovation vendor partners “admired as the best in their Parking Services • Excellence respective fields of service.” The Port Authority of New York and New Jersey’s ABM’s Charlotte Jensen-Murphy, Rene Jacobsen, PANYNJ Aviation Department presented ABM These values intertwine to provide a baseline Bob Clarke, Jim Altieri, Carlos Murrieta, David Parking Services at John F. Kennedy International mentality for how we operate, and nowhere is that Casarez, and Aaron Cohen were presented the Airport (JFK), Newark Liberty International Airport more evident than in how we take responsibility for award by Senior Director of Operations for the (EWR), and LaGuardia Airport (LGA) with their our activities which impact stakeholders and the highest recognition award, Best Performance by a Irvine Company Maureen Quintanar. ABM was environment. nominated in December 2013 by the real estate Port Authority Contractor for 2013. company with the criteria being that the service How We Give Back In addition, two employees of ABM Parking provider must perform exemplary work within more Services, Supervisor Dennis Polanco at JFK and We believe that in order to be a good business than one division. Cashier Crystal Sewell at EWR were named leader, we must also be a good community leader. Port Authority Employees of the Year, 2013 for We support many different programs and endeavors Consistency in Service. that help fuel the social and economic vitality of various community sectors. Below are just some of the examples of how ABM employees have given back to their various communities over the course of 2014. ABM Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 | June 2015 | 22 ABM in the Community ABM in The Community Industry Award for Healthcare We continue to work hard to give back to the • HHA Services one of Modern Healthcare’s Best communities in which we live and work. Here are Places to Work in 2014 just a few of the many examples of how ABM gave back in 2014. Children’s Memorial Hermann Hospital In August, ABM’s 16 Houstonbased internal audit team members and friends of the department spent the afternoon decorating ABM-supplied T-shirts and stuffed animals alongside approximately 40 pediatric patients at Children’s Memorial Hermann Hospital. Everyone had a fantastic time – it was an opportunity to help brighten the day of patients and the ABM team alike! ABM Gives Back in Atlantic City In May, more than 150 ABM volunteers gave their time to help beautify Atlantic City’s Police Athletic League (PAL). PAL is geared towards positive instruction for youth and young adults and is involved with 400 kids in Atlantic City. 100 ABM volunteers helped makeover PAL’s North New York Avenue facility, while another 50 worked alongside Atlantic City Public Works to renovate the courtyard between City Hall and the Atlantic County Office Building. ABM Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 | June 2015 | 23
