Sustainability Report 2013-14 We are Mindtree: a people-focused environment that nurtures individuals towards higher growth and higher responsibility. Sustainability is owned by the individual here. Our second Sustainability Report salutes and celebrates the power of the individual for sustainability impacts. Content 04 Welcome to possible Executive message --------------------------------------------------------------------05 Highlights of our sustainability performance ------------------------------------06 Way forward for the year 2014-15 -------------------------------------------------09 10 Rooted in Sustainability Overview by the Head of Sustainability & Diversity --------------------------Root of sustainability tracing it back in time ------------------------------------12 14 Our approach to sustainability ------------------------------------------------------16 Engaging with you, minding what matters ----------------------------------------19 Sustainability, an enterprise-level risk --------------------------------------------25 Governing ourselves ------------------------------------------------------------------27 33 Developing Expert Mindtree Minds Perspective by the Head of People Function -------------------------------------Developing the expert Mindtree Mind --------------------------------------------34 36 Grooming future leaders -------------------------------------------------------------40 Engaging the individual in performance ------------------------------------------45 Engaging the supply chain -----------------------------------------------------------52 Being diverse and inclusive ----------------------------------------------------------56 Shadowing a valuable practice ----------------------------------------------------62 Women-speak: gender equality in Mindtree -------------------------------------65 69 Sustainability An Individual Responsibility Change maker --------------------------------------------------------------------------70 Creating entrepreneurs out of waste pickers -------------------------------------72 Activist-entrepreneur -----------------------------------------------------------------74 77 Economic Value We Create View of the Chief Financial Oﬃcer -------------------------------------------------78 Global economic performance ------------------------------------------------------79 85 Caring for the Planet Viewpoint environmental responsibility -----------------------------------------86 Environmental performance and plans -------------------------------------------88 Reducing employee carbon footprint for the IT park ----------------------------97 From waste to wealth -----------------------------------------------------------------98 101 Contributing to the Society Viewpoint of the Head of Mindtree Foundation --------------------------------Our approach to CSR -----------------------------------------------------------------102 103 Spotting a seed -----------------------------------------------------------------------105 Nurturing a seed ----------------------------------------------------------------------106 Partner-speak -------------------------------------------------------------------------108 Our contributions: 2013-14 --------------------------------------------------------110 Our plans for 2014-15 ---------------------------------------------------------------112 114 Global presence ---------------------------------------------------------------------Assurance statement ----------------------------------------------------------------UNGC and NVG application report ------------------------------------------------114 116 121 GRI Content Index --------------------------------------------------------------------126 2 Welcome to possible 3 Welcome to possible Our mission: We engineer meaningful technology solutions to help businesses and societies ﬂourish. With revenues of USD 501.5 million generated by We are happy to share with our dear stakeholders, 12,969 expert minds, Mindtree Ltd., headquartered our second annual sustainability report which in Bangalore, is a global information technology captures our actions and impacts over the last ﬁnancial year 2013-14. solutions company, thriving on a culture which is a unique blend of expertise strategic thinking and a The report follows GRI 3.1 guidelines and is in deep, human perspective. alignment with the UNGC principles and the NVG-SEE guidelines. Helping us see possibilities where others see a full stop are our values of collaborative spirit, unrelenting Since our social and environmental action is focused dedication and expert thinking, which make us an on our India operations, the report covers our ideal strategic partner to over 40 Fortune 500 environmental performance and social performance enterprises across India, the USA, Europe and of the India operations while the scope of our Asia Paciﬁc. economic performance reported here is global, as in our ﬁrst report. There are no signiﬁcant changes Set out to be a responsible and inclusive company from last year in the structure or ownership of the from the very beginning, we have been committed to organization or in the locations and markets served the idea and practice of sustainability. At the global that have a bearing on the boundary or scope of the level, we are committed to the ten principles of the report. Measurement methods remain the same too United National Global Compact and at the national in the year under reporting. level, our intent and operations are aligned to the spirit espoused in the nine principles recommended This GRI based A+ report is veriﬁed and assured by the National Voluntary Guidelines Social, by our assurance provider KPMG. The assurance Environmental and Economic Responsibilities of statement by KPMG is included here, towards the Business (NVG-SEE), issued by the Ministry of end of this report. Corporate Aﬀairs, Government of India. We respect and prioritize both its principles and its core elements. We embarked on a journey of reporting our sustainability performance in 2012-13. Following the framework of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), we published our ﬁrst sustainability report in 2012-13, which is A+ report based on GRI3.1 guidelines of GRI. 4 Executive message “Gen Y is a huge driver for advancing our sustainability vision.” At Mindtree, we see sustainability as a smart way of A signiﬁcant portion of our people is very young and doing business. Commitment to sustainability is our average age is consistently reducing. This is a increasingly becoming a hygiene factor in our huge driver for our social and environmental action relationship with our clients. In addition, with our ahead. Gen Y being relatively keener on their younger talent pool, this has proved to be a individual responsibilities towards the society and diﬀerentiator and a motivator. the planet, we are happy to see them bringing in the required energy and passion to it and we consider it Leveraging our strengths in technology for solving an opportunity to engage with them on a set of wider large social and environmental problems is an and new issues. We are committed to creating an important and a natural route for us to take, and our environment for them and are keen on providing technology platform I Got Garbage (IGG) is an encouraging platforms and eﬀective media for the illustration of that approach. But more importantly, we needed connect and action. are interested in seeing the ultimate impact on the lives of people as a result of our interventions. That is While we are prepared for our the short and medium why we look at the success of IGG in terms of how it term agenda, in the long term, we are looking at changes the nature of work and lives of waste pickers. impacting behavioral change and higher responsibility Our technology-empowered social and environmental by involving our partners in our value chain by solutions will continue to address and integrate the educating them, learning from them and aligning softer issues in any key initiative. them with our broader goals and vision. In the next four or ﬁve years, we would like to see the whole Our short term priorities in the next year and a half eco-system more aligned than ever with sustainability would be about advancing our shift from resourcegoals and objectives. intensive processes to resource-conserving processes in the areas of energy and water and other eﬃciencyLooking forward to unleashing more possibilities in related areas, with considerable progress achieved on 2014-15 for the society, the planet, the individual waste management. Renewable energy is going to be and the organization! an important element in this plan. Our immediate focus is on such initiatives involving high capital Welcome to possible. expenditure and smart business sense with larger social and environmental sensitivities built into them. Krishnakumar Natarajan CEO & MD and Subroto Bagchi Executive Chairman In the medium term, over the next two to three years, we would continue to extend the alignment of our people with sustainability goals. The vision here is to inspire every individual to deeply engage with sustainability issues in their lives at their workplace and beyond. Highlights of our sustainability performance: 2013-14 Nurturing our people Our Mindtree Foundation reached out to thousands of beneﬁciaries with We have now 12, 926 Mindtree Minds (an individual focus. increase of 11.52%). A child adopted and groomed by Mindtree We are a zero fatality work environment. for years joined us as a Java programmer. We continued to involve our Mindtree Minds Being inclusive in our social projects through our Individual Social Responsibility (ISR) projects. 28% of our current total workforce is women. Our technology platform I Got Garbage empowered 7000 waste pickers. A woman director on our Board from this year. Ten more people with disability recruited this year, making the total 41. Caring for the environment Caring for the society We reduced GHG (greenhouse gases) emissions per capita by 3%. Reducing business travel, we decreased related emissions by 18.24%. Energy consumption per capita per month marginally reduced by 0.5%. 20 diﬀerent projects in community welfare active this year. 89.68% of the waste generated is recycled. 6 Serving customers Recognitions Digital Pumpkin, Mindtree's innovation Awarded ‘India’s Most Admired Knowledge platform in collaboration with clients, Enterprise’ for the seventh time. nurtured over 50 brands this year. Mindtree ranked 40th among the 535 participating organizations, moving up 7 Two European countries ensured safety of ranks as compared to last year. This survey millions of passengers with our back-end was conducted by The Economic Times and infrastructure for railway and traﬃc Great Place to Work® Institute. control systems. Zinnov Consulting ranks Mindtree as a leading global product engineering service Our Network Operating Center integrated provider in its 'Global Service Provider service management with monitoring tools Ratings 2013'. to provide customers a consolidated view of applications and infrastructure. Forbes Asia 2013 selected as one of the ‘Best Under a Billion’ companies. Our integrated development center at Gainsville, Florida completed a successful Won Gainesville, Florida Chamber of year; we set up another one at Redmond, US. Commerce 'Business of the Year' award for innovative practices. Won 'SAP® 2013 Industry Mobile Economic sustainability Application Challenges' at SAP’s TechEd event for mobility solutions for the retail Crossed the half billion dollar mark in and logistics industries. revenues our achievement in 15 years. CNBC TV18 award for ‘The Most Promising 15% year-on-year growth in dollar revenues. Company of the Year’. Crossed the 100 million dollar mark in Krishnakumar Natarajan, CEO and MD, is operating proﬁts. voted as one of India's Top 100 CEOs by Strong ROCE: net margins growth higher Business Today – Pricewaterhouse Coopers. than revenue growth. Everest Group’s research report on IT Crossed the Rs 100 mark on EPS. service providers for outsourcing names Mindtree ‘Major Contenders’ in the Reached billion dollar on market IT space. capitalization. 7 Recognized by Euromoney’s annual Asia Leadership company ranking as ‘Best Managed IT / Software / Technology Company in Asia’ and Strengthened top leadership by ‘Best Managed Company in India’. welcoming Paul Gottsegen to lead marketing strategy & alliances and Mark Ranked among top 3 Corporations in India, Wilsdon to lead European sales. in all categories related to governance and investor relations by Asiamoney. Welcomed N.S Parthasarathy and Apurva Purohit to the Board of Directors. Gold rating at the 5th Annual Bridge Awards, in Florida, US, in the category ‘Company Growth of the year’. 8 Way forward for 2014-15 Aiming for a 3% reduction over 2013-14 in per capita energy consumption. Target: 194 kWh / employee / month. Aiming for a 2% reduction in GHG emissions. Target: 3.32 tons CO2e / employee / annum. Aiming for a 5% reduction in Per Capita Water Consumption. Target; 1.22 kl / employee / month. Aiming for 3% increase in waste recycling. Target: 92.37% Further consolidating our energy monitoring and robustness of our data and reporting through analytics. Getting Mindtree facilities BEE energy star rating certiﬁed. Adopting solar energy by installing solar panels in all Mindtree facility rooftops to generate not less than 500kWp in the year 2015-16. Aiming at achieving 20% or more clean energy component (solar, wind, micro hydro) in the overall energy consumption – in a three year timeframe. Mindtree further extends the evangelizing of responsibility organization-wide. We pilot the idea of deeper integration of sustainability among our fresh recruits and lateral hires. We kickstart the preparation for our dream project of a Learning Centre dedicated to our people, which is coming up at Bhubaneswar. Sustainability would be an integral component of the plan. 9 10 Rooted in Sustainability 11 Overview by the Head of Sustainability and Diversity “Our report celebrates the power of the individual for sustainability.” Practicing sustainability is not new to Mindtree. creates an environment where individuals are Reporting it is a recent step. Carrying social and developed into expert professionals and leaders with environmental responsibility in its DNA, Mindtree has a heightened sense of responsibility and been a conscientious enterprise all along, believing in sensitiveness towards the society and the planet. doing well by doing good. You will come across, in this report, several We are happy to share with you our second individuals sharing their experience and views on the sustainability report where we have increased the diﬀerence our sustainability approach and initiatives number and depth of coverage of several performance have made in their lives oﬀering testimony to or indicators over the last year. reaﬃrming what we say here. We also take this opportunity to feature a few stories of individuals The report content is generated with the support of an who have demonstrated the power and impact of external and extensive research exercise which individualized sense of responsibility which Mindtree triangulated inputs from our internal stakeholders, strives to create in its people. In fact, it is the external stakeholders and our externally veriﬁed ‘individual’ who is the central theme of this performance data. The research has guided the theme sustainability report! for this report and has shaped the content, integrating the GRI framework and the cultural character of our We further present to you, our endeavors in the areas responsible enterprise into the report. of diversity and inclusion areas we have been deeply working on for long. Gender is a theme The report sketches the essence of Mindtree’s cultural growing in signiﬁcance in sustainability today and it is character which embeds sustainability within and time we took the focus to higher levels. Mindtree has tries to make explicit what has been implicit so far for been putting in eﬀorts right from the beginning, all of us Mindtree Minds. It explains to you how we towards mainstreaming people with disability. We are engage with our diﬀerent stakeholders, what issues happy to share with you our considerable progress are material to us and to our stakeholders and how and future plans along this direction. sustainability is positioned on the radar of our Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) and is built into We also bring to you, highlights of our environmental corporate governance structures. performance our initiatives and impacts in energy, carbon, water and waste management. We share Mindtree being a people-focused enterprise nurturing with you, very brieﬂy, a few elements of our ﬁnancial individual growth, the report shares with you how it performance further details being available in our 12 annual report and our ideology which views proﬁts reporting of it as we look to evolving our journey and purpose as a balance and not as a tradeoﬀ. on both fronts. We assure you on the way we continue to make our social contributions through our foundation for niche Please feel free to contact me for any queries or and deep impacts, often involving our people in feedback. We look forward to hearing from you! achieving them. Chitra Byregowda Head, Going forward, we seek your valuable feedback on Sustainability & Diversity both our sustainability performance and on our Root of sustainability: tracing it back in time The story of the birth of Mindtree and the story of the beginning of its sustainability journey are not diﬀerent ones. It all began with Subroto Bagchi, then working with Lucent Technologies, dreaming up a knowledge-enabled software solution enterprise with a social sensitiveness. This dream gripped his imagination, energy and time We will deliver business enabling software intensely and pushed him to explore it further. He solutions, by creating partnership with our chose to ﬁrst share it with his ex-peer KK (Krishna customers, in a joyous environment for Kumar, then CEO, Wipro Electronic Commerce our people. Division), over a meal at Karavali Restaurant at Bangalore, where the duo met on June 17, 1998 and Customer-focus, joyful workplace and people conspired to turn the idea into a reality. orientation were very much a part of the mission at the conception stage itself. Next few months saw them drawing exactly the kind of people they wanted on board. Towards the end of The multiple visions deﬁned during that brainstorming the year, when the world was holidaying over the included a revenue goal, an international scale for the Christmas season, this dream-team drove all the way company, shared wealth for its people (through ESOPs) from Bangalore up to Vizag, the place where the and social contribution through commitment to primary dream was to take root. education in the country visions that could not have emerged out of anything other than an implicit From Dec. 25th to Dec.31st, The Park Hotel at Vizag ideology of inclusion. saw these top executives sharing rooms, ‘camping like boy scouts’ in the nights, occupying their conference In 1999, after Ashok Soota came on board as its room from morning to night, sitting across the chairman and the name Mindtree was chosen by scattered chairs, standing on the table tops at times the team, the company was still in search of its to make a point, deliberating passionately and visual identity. Subroto Bagchi decided he wanted kids animatedly. As the year drew to its close and the from Spastic Society of Karnataka to design the identity group left The Park, the enterprise was conceptually of the company. Much to his relief, he found warm born complete with its mission, armored with its agreement from all the founding members another visions and values. sign of the uniformity in its inclusive values. The DNA of a responsible business was seeded at that The brand brief was made then, not to a professional stage itself the mission of the new and still unnamed design agency but to a group of children with disability enterprise read: from Spastic Society ‘ﬁne minds trapped in a 14 disobedient body’, in the words of Bagchi. Fine and creative minds they were, indeed, for they produced several creative options for the enterprise. Mindtree chose one among them, a blue brush stroke of a tree trunk with joyful yellow dots for foliage, standing against the backdrop of a vibrant red a piece of soulful art by K. Chetan, a seventeen year old boy with cerebral palsy. Mindtree embraced people with disability right from Sustainability at Mindtree is really that old as old as there and went on to recruit some of them in its very the enterprise itself! And it was to grow only stronger ﬁrst bunch of employees. and more inclusive in the years to come. 15 Our approach to sustainability Sustainability embedded A successful organization is almost always born with conform to or to respond to, but as an opportunity for the conviction in a certain ideology, conceptualized growth through self transformation. We believe in with a certain vision, driven with a clear set of values look within, transform from within, sustaining that and is built and grown by people carrying its DNA. culture within and extending that culture of care to the external world. This is an organization where The sustainability vision for such an enterprise is proﬁt and purpose are consciously designed to meet either embedded in the founding vision or is each other. Responsibility here is an inbuilt and a conceptualized later being inﬂuenced by the same self-driven expectation rather than an external, set of ideology, vision, values and people. normative imperative. Sustainability was innate to our founding vision. Our Looking inward our starting point organization was created in 1999 with the dream of We have historically approached business becoming an international software solutions responsibility with an inward-looking lens to start company thriving on customer focus, people-centric with, keen on creating signiﬁcant change within our approach and a joyful workplace. Our inclusive organization in our people ﬁrst and foremost. ideology ensured our vision included distribution of Creating a responsible organizational culture and wealth and social contribution to deserved causes. creating responsible individuals is the ﬁrst step to responsibility as we see and hence we dedicate The vision behind our organization continues to considerable energy and eﬀort for this purpose. dream of creating societies that ﬂourish. Our Doing so, we believe, deepens the impact of our strategies and operations work together, trying to responsibility work as we extend it to the outside make this a reality. world for the society and for the planet. Mindtree is an organization where the sustainability-embedded vision of the founders has Diverse and inclusive inspired its people to share it and has encouraged Our approach to sustainability believes in the ethics individuals to own it. And that is how we believe it will and eﬀectiveness of diversity and inclusion. We bring sustain itself in the future too shared as a culture in the much needed spotlight on these areas with the and owned as individual responsibility. help of our diversity charter. We extend our non-discrimination stance beyond gender, to race, Mindtree is one of the organizations which do not nationality, ethnicity and sexual orientation. look at responsibility as an external mandate to 16 People-focused For the society We take care of our people under what we call our As an organization and as people who make this ‘People Function’. Our responsibility vision binds us organization thrive on proﬁts and proﬁtability, we are to not only the welfare and well-being of our people, also touched and troubled by a set of societal issues but to their holistic growth as well. Much of our internal and needs such as lack of education and housing, eﬀorts go towards making this happen, right from poverty and disability. We have committed our induction to their growth as leaders. Sustainability resources and capabilities to ﬁll in some of these remains an integral part of this task, as we think glaring need gaps of the society. Our Corporate Social it should. Responsibility (CSR) eﬀorts have been consolidated under the Mindtree Foundation since 2007 and with the help of several committed NGO partners, we Enabled by the individual continue to support social causes of urgency and Our sustainability performance and impacts, from ideas importance, irrespective of our ﬁnancial performance. to execution, are all powered by the individual. While individuals wear the sustainability mandate here, we, Our CSR endeavor has not pegged itself to a certain as an organization, create the encouraging percentage of proﬁts: we have contributed to social environment around them, allowing room for causes even when our ﬁnancial performance has not individualized paths for growth. Our people engage in been great. individual social projects of their choice, some of them growing into intrapreneurs or entrepreneurs in It must be acknowledged here that this was possible their chosen areas of impact. Our social contributions because our CSR is not strategic in its intent or too strive to empower individuals who come with outlook. While our ecological sustainability initiatives great need and great promise. do examine the Return on Investment (ROI) factor, our CSR investments maintain a conscious disconnect For the planet from its appeal. Our approach to sustainability as an enterprise cannot ignore the imperative of resource conservation and Institutionalising sustainability that implies initiatives in energy eﬃciency, water Our sustainability policy and sustainability framework eﬃciency, waste treatment, emission reductions and are our conscious steps in institutionalizing what the like. Interestingly, several of our eco-initiatives has been implicit in our culture all along. Our and ideas emerge from individually proactive thought, sustainability framework is three-pillared, comprising feedback and innovation which often further develop economic sustainability, workplace sustainability and into organization-wide commitments. Our people are ecological sustainability. active participants in our ecological commitment, as community members and as individuals. 17 Further deepening our framework are our two key evolution in sustainability. We are currently charters one on diversity and the other on CSR. identifying more areas to strengthen our Our anti-bribery and anti-corruption policy, sustainability steps in a way that institutionalizes non-discrimination policy and the whistleblower them in the future. policy help us set and ensure the direction for our Governance & advocacy Workplace sustainability Ecological sustainability Sustainability framework 18 Engaging with you, minding what matters Stakeholder engagement Mindtree’s approach to sustainability is one that is with our internal stakeholders which bring in multiple inclusive. And inclusion implies an acknowledgement eﬀects and mutual beneﬁts. The periodic engagements of contributions, concerns and signiﬁcance of the are carried out at diﬀerent time intervals, oﬀering a stakeholders in its fold. scope for continual feedback and integration. Being a people-focused organization, people are The internal platforms help us to not only dialogue naturally our important internal stakeholders. We and engage with our internal stakeholders but also place our people Mindtree Minds and their families serve as vehicles for further strengthening our culture at the center of our stakeholder engagement of openness, transparency, fairness and ethics. The approach while extending our commitment and platforms for internal stakeholders are designed for engagement with customers, investors and enabling dialogue between various levels, cutting shareholders, partners and suppliers, current and across hierarchical norms and limitations when future generations, communities and NGOs, regulators needed, thus enabling us to do justice to the values and public policy makers and the environment. we believe are critical to our culture. Our stakeholder engagement platforms reﬂect our We regard our stakeholder feedback and our learning central commitment to our people. A part of our from these engagements as critical inputs in shaping initiatives focuses on enabling internal communication the direction of our policies as strategies. You would and relationship to work eﬀectively and a part of our see us further deepening our engagements with our initiatives strives to maintain transparency and external stakeholders, in times to come, as we look to openness at all the levels. strengthen our commitments along our entire value chain and society at large. Using the power of dialogue and feedback, we have managed to create multiple platforms of engagement Engagement platforms Stakeholder Ongoing platforms Periodic platforms Employees PeopleHub – The intranet makes policies, MiVoice Employee satisfaction content rich practices, programs, people survey (annual) intranet portal systems and applications available and accessible to Mindtree Minds, across the globe. 19 Engagement platforms Stakeholder Ongoing platforms Periodic platforms Employees Genie Provides online resolution PACE Performance Performance appraisal and interaction platform for Management System discussions (bi-annual) any queries All Mindtree A platform to interact Minds Meet with the senior management and voice opinions (quarterly) Senior Open sessions by senior Open session CEO interaction with management management address new middle management and interactions and changes within the above levels (bi-annual) webcast organization Blogs and Konnect Mindtree’s Feedback Fortnight An annual event during discussion groups social platform December-January with focus on organization-wide feedback capture Mindspace CEO wall for direct communication from the CEO Mindspeak A platform for promoting equity at the workplace, where Mindtree Minds can dialogue on issues relating to career progression, promotion, favoritism / discrimination at the workplace, performance management and so on. People function representatives help bringing them to closure Whistleblower Mindtree’s platform ensures a ‘Fair and Equitable Workplace’ by providing an opportunity to blow the whistle against any one who bypasses the integrity norms of the organization Open door policy Encourages accessibility, openness and transparency in communication. One can reach out to anyone, including the Chairman of the organization, to address concerns at any point in time 20 Engagement platforms Stakeholder Ongoing platforms Periodic platforms Employees Skip level meetings To help sort out concerns which one might not be comfortable discussing with the immediate manager. Customers Project feedback through surveys Customer Experience Survey – CXO Operational (annual) Customer visits Steering committee meetings for larger customers (quarterly) Operational reviews Communities Monitoring and evaluation of communities and NGO’s & NGOs by Mindtree Foundation on predefined metrics. Periodic visits to communities, beneficiaries for feedback Partners & Operational reviews, vendor meets Supplier / vendor evaluation (annual) suppliers Investors & Dedicated email ID for investors, investor Annual report shareholders grievance committee Annual General Meeting Participation in investor conferences / Quarterly shareholder reports / updates non deal roadshows Investor / Analyst meets Workshops Regulators & public policy Panel discussions makers Steering committees Participation in NASSCOM & CII events Minding what matters: Mindtree also recognizes and respects issues that are material at the individual level. The ﬁnal impact of Materiality material issues is felt at the individual level, after all, The eﬀectiveness of sustainability eﬀort depends on and Mindtree, being an individual-centric enterprise, how well an organization addresses issues which are factors in the consideration of the individual as well, material to itself and to its stakeholders, in the business into the process of determining materiality. context of its industry. Material issues are, in one sense, critical drivers of a business. The process of determining materiality involves a thorough study of the external environment, industry Recognizing the signiﬁcance of material issues in the issues, global concerns, risks and opportunities, interlinked contexts of business and sustainability, expert opinions, consideration of stakeholder Mindtree commits its focus to issues which are feedback from across engagement platforms and material at the global level, national level, industry senior management views and reviews. level and enterprise level. The scope of issues identiﬁed by us, therefore, span across these levels. 21 The material issues were identiﬁed based on The exercise revealed a set of nine material issues interviews with senior management, a study of the to prioritize for goal-setting and action. For goalexternal environment i.e., the issues faced by the IT / setting, we combined environment stewardship ITES sector, reviews of the customer experience survey with climate change. and MiVoice (employee) surveys which are regular features of our periodic stakeholder engagement. Growth Climate Domain change expertise Nine Vendor Material Employee issues engagement engagement Environment Fair business stewardship practices Diversity Talent & inclusion development Material issues were identiﬁed and were classiﬁed based on two axes as shown below: Stakeholder interest: Mindtree performance: • Low: Stakeholders are not concerned with / • Good: The issue has been addressed and has impacted by this issue. no / low residual ﬁnancial, regulatory, strategic or • Medium: Stakeholders are moderately concerned reputational impact on Mindtree. with this issue. • Adequate: The issue has been adequately addressed • High: Stakeholders are very concerned with and has medium residual ﬁnancial, regulatory, this issue or are negatively impacted by it and strategic or reputational impact on Mindtree. demand transparency. • Needs improvement: The issue needs to be focused upon because it has high ﬁnancial, regulatory, strategic or reputational impact. 22 The materiality matrix • Transparency & disclosure • Growth • Diversity & inclusion • Service stewardship • Domain expertise • Environment stewardship High • Customer privacy & data security • Employee engagement Stakeholder interest • Social innovation • Fair business practices • Talent development Medium • Economic environment • Employee retention • Vendor engagement • Safe & healthy work • Climate change environment • Advocacy Low Good Adequate Needs improvement Mindtree Performance Material issues Stakeholders Short-term goal Long-term goal Growth • Investors & shareholders To consistently achieve higher Better account mining from • Customers than industry growth rates existing top customers Domain expertise • Investors & shareholders To be recognized as To win higher revenue projects • Customers experts in chosen domains from existing customers • Employees Employee engagement Employees To increase employee To strengthen engagement and satisfaction and reduce alignment of middle managers attrition to implement programs such as Fun@Work and Proud to be a Mindtree Mind, engage high achievers, engage Gen Yers and focus on communication Fair business practices • Customers To strengthen the culture • To address employee • Employees of non-discrimination concerns about fair pay to • Investors & shareholders and fairness eliminate partiality or favoritism, if any • Decentralization in performance management & compensation decision making process. The budget is shared at compensation planner levels (who are at mid manager level) to ensure decisions are taken at their level rather than at very senior levels • Grievance procedure instituted for grievance related issues • Process of promotion panels to decide on mid and senior level promotions continue 23 Material issue Stakeholders Short-term goal Long-term goal Diversity and inclusion Employees To encourage diversity further To improve gender ratios along several axes: gender, at middle and senior nationality, culture & disabilities management levels Talent development Employees Learning initiatives to be • Develop leadership, strategically aligned to behavioral, domain and organization’s objectives technical competencies and human capital needs and skills • Deliver an innovative and effective campus learning program • Extend all programs and certifications to global Mindtree Minds • Increased use of e-content in learning programs and certifications Environmental stewardship Current & future generations • To achieve reduction in overall • To institutionalize resource and climate change (impact on the environment) per capita energy and water efficiency processes internally consumption • To target better energy • To achieve reduction in efficiency carbon emissions • To minimize carbon emissions as well as cost by: Reducing overall resource usage Making employee commute and transport more efficient Vendor engagement Partners & suppliers To drive sustainability as a key • Vendor meet planned for agenda point with the supply 2014-15 with the objective to chain partners recognize the supplier and service partners and familiarize them with Mindtree’s brand identity, value system and integrity • Background screening of vendors on a random sample during pre-boarding stage • Continue to rate and provide feedback for vendors • Revise the procurement manual to accommodate the changes as per the newly launched vendor management portal (Ariba) work flow along with executive summary of Mindtree’s procurement process 24 Sustainability, an enterprise-level risk Risk management and sustainability Managing sustainability is closely connected to While we categorize risks into six major categories, managing risks. While some sustainability initiatives the Mindtree ERM approach centers around the key such as energy management, water and waste business goals of the enterprise and goes through the management and the like can be opportunities for steps of risk identiﬁcation, assessment, treatment and savings and therefore a boost to the economic monitoring & reporting. bottomline, there are several other factors, which, if ignored, could grow into risks in the medium or This year, in 2013-14, we evolved our entire approach longer term. to risk management to another level. We documented our approach, published our ERM Charter, For a growing enterprise such as ours, exposed to strengthened the governance around ERM and took global level of external factors, a strong Enterprise steps ahead in implementing the charter. Risk Management (ERM) is an imperative. One that includes and integrates sustainability thought and Our ERM charter outlines the principles, key issues in its framework is a must. Our ERM has been responsibilities and reporting requirements for risk evolving in that direction. management. Mindtree framework for ERM is the result of an At the structural level, we have constituted the ERM in-house endeavor to build its own framework, Council which consists of the CEO, COO, CFO, the inspired by best features and elements of other Head of Strategy and the Chief Risk Oﬃcer (CRO). frameworks such as COSO, ISO 31000: 2009 and the IRM Risk Management Standard. Key business Environment goals Strategic & market risks risks Monitoring and Risk identification Contractual & Financial reporting counter-party RISK CATEGORIES performance risks risks ERM APPROACH Compliance & Operational Risk treatment Risk assessment internal risks control risks 25 BOD ERM COUNCIL CHIEF RISK OFFICER (CRO) RISK OWNERS: BUSINESS UNIT/ ENABLING FUNCTION HEADS At an implementation level, in 2013-14, we created In 2013-14, we engaged a leading international risk an exhaustive enterprise risk register, identiﬁed consulting ﬁrm to evaluate the maturity of our ERM existing risk controls and implemented risk program and suggest a roadmap benchmarked to treatment measures. industry best practices. A holistic risk rating model has been developed to Year 2014-15 will see us complete this process monitor key customers across a range of risk and start implementing the roadmap ahead. parameters including delivery, people, revenue and It will also be a year where we would be credit risks to ensure we proactively monitor key developing a model involving quantiﬁcation of accounts and can identify areas for attention. critical risks and rolling out risk management across the organization, ensuring organizationWhile we have taken several other steps to evolve our wide consistency in ERM. ERM approach, an interesting one among them is an organization-wide initiative we launched: a risk Climate change and sustainability have been awareness program which uses diﬀerent mechanisms important part of our key risks and our approach to to target diﬀerent internal audience through multiple these risks includes various commitments including channels such as blogs, executive email, comic strips, Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) reporting and a range communications, LCD displays, infographics and of eco-sustainability measures, which you will see in interactive sessions to communicate risk awareness more detail, in the section which focuses on our to Mindtree Minds. Supporting the campaign and environmental performance. drawing positive feedback is our ERM portal which is hosted on our intranet, accessible to all Mindtree Minds. 26 The policy ensures a strict adherence to integrity at Governing ourselves all levels. We are committed to being a humane Corporate governance organization, given to high levels of empathy and Our endeavor on corporate governance is in line with sensitive considerations in all areas of human recommendations by the United Nations Global conduct. Yet , when it comes to integrity, we are Compact (UNGC) guidelines and the Organization for guided by the absolutes in our values, which are Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) non-negotiable. In other words, it means a principles of corporate governance. zero-tolerance approach to breach of integrity. It is in our values that we ﬁnd the anchor for our Each employee is given an integrity policy booklet governance structures and processes. Values of and is expected to know and follow it irrespective of strong ethics, honesty, integrity, fairness and geography, level or role. transparency, we insist, should be apparent in the way we conduct business. We have now developed and deployed an in-house educative program in India on integrity. We are now Our approach to governance goes beyond adherence looking at customizing it across our locations or checking for deviances: we are an enterprise which beyond India. evangelizes and advocates ethical values within the enterprise by setting an example at higher levels and Our anti-bribery and ensuring a cascading eﬀect downwards. anti-corruption policy This commits us to prevention, deterrence and It is for this reason that responsibility for advocacy for detection of fraud, bribery and all other corrupt and us becomes a proactive mandate closely related to unethical business practices. All our units are covered governance. Our committed work in advocacy in close and scrutinized on this expectation and all our people association with several national platforms and are trained in the behavioral expectations of the forums has earned us the position of repute and policy. We are committed to work against corruption leadership in this domain. in all forms, including extortion and bribery. Our integrity policy Mindtree commits to prevention, deterrence and Anti-bribery clauses form a part of our agreement detection of fraud, bribery and all other corrupt and with vendors. The policy ensures that every Mindtree unethical business practices. It is the policy of Mind and also vendors are adequately trained on Mindtree to conduct all of its business activities with anti-bribery and corruption norms and processes are honesty, integrity and the highest possible ethical in place to address any eventuality. standards while vigorously enforcing its business practice of not engaging in bribery or corruption, All our units and critical functions and processes are wherever it operates in the world. analyzed, monitored and audited for risks with 27 respect to corruptions or deviations from ethical unions at present. No complaints of human rights norms. The scope of our internal audit is not restricted violations were reported across our operations and to ﬁnancial reporting alone. The scope of the auditors locations in the reporting period. covers 100% of all critical functions and processes such as procurement, payments, recruitment, exits, Our supplier code of conduct and procurement administration, people function, ﬁnance, ﬁnancial processes too have established the required checks reporting and compliance. No incidents of corruption and balances to ensure there are no violations of have been reported in the reporting year. human rights in our supply chain either. The checks and balances ensure the supplies and services we employ are free of child / forced / compulsory labor. The whistleblower policy Several of our CSR initiatives for children’s education, This policy only strengthens our stringent attitude. in fact, empower the children to sustain their The policy opens a scope for disclosure and redressal education, thus protecting them from perils of of issues related to various aspects such as related child labor. party transactions, siphoning of funds, non-compliance of the law of the land, concealing The speciﬁc way we approach human rights is legal mandatory disclosures, breach of ﬁduciary through building human sensitiveness at all levels. responsibilities, ﬁnancial irregularities, sexual Our inclusion philosophy, our stakeholders would harassment, misuse of intellectual property, breach of appreciate, is based on a strong respect for integrity and any suspicious activity or event which human rights. indicates a potential threat to the security of Mindtree’s assets and people. Our philosophy oﬀers us these principles to follow: Respect for human rights • Act in the spirit of law and not just the Human rights is a value for us which cuts across all our letter of law policies and processes, a part of our training programs • Do what is right and not what is convenient of all kinds, for all levels. As a business, we respect • Provide complete transparency on our and support the protection of internationally operations proclaimed human rights. Our policies and monitoring • Follow openness in our communication to mechanisms are designed to ensure we are not all stakeholders tolerant of human rights violations. All our Mindtree Minds are trained and sensitized on human rights, and the commitment extends to and covers our contractual workers such as security guards as well. As a matter of principle, we respect the right to freedom of association and collective bargaining. None of our Mindtree Minds are part of any registered trade 28 The governance structure at Mindtree is 3-tiered, with responsibility performance which includes CSR and shareholders appointing the Board of Directors, the sustainability is also conducted at a frequency board leading the strategic management of the decided by the board and the relevant committee. organization and appointing the various committees, and the committees of the board and the executive The board maintains an active oversight on the triple management taking charge of the operations under bottom line performance of the enterprise including the guidance of the board. management of relevant risks and opportunities and adherence to national and global principles, standards Our board is a ﬁne blend of professionals from diverse and codes in all relevant domains including business backgrounds. Out of ten members, ﬁve are responsibility. Our open channels allow a free ﬂow of non-executive independent directors, four are communication, of feedback or recommendations executive directors and one is a non-executive from our people right up to the highest levels. director. The composition includes woman director as well, bearing testimony to our commitment to taking Our 95:95:95 principle enables 95% of Mindtree diversity to the top. The board is subject to a clear set Minds to have access to 95% communication, 95% of of performance standards and is evaluated the time. Our open door policy makes all levels of accordingly. Triple bottom line considerations are hierarchy available and accessible to all other levels; integrated into these standards and expectations. this policy enables access to the Chairman and the Directors of the Board as well. High level of governance standards, contribution to strategy, understanding of the industry, capability for Mechanisms for the top management to ensure enhancing the excellence of operational eﬃciencies, that conﬂicts of interest are avoided have reported sensitiveness towards stakeholder concerns and no incidents of material signiﬁcance in the ability for stakeholder responsiveness are some of the reporting period. key criteria set for eﬀective evaluation of our board and committee members. Redressal and remediation systems to gather employee grievances have reported no grievances. Various committees covering diﬀerent key areas of Compliance is often a result of an eﬀective attention provide the much needed oversight on all governance system, and our compliance processes aspects of policy and strategy execution in those strive to leave no room for deviations. Our information areas. We have also constituted a CSR committee as security council, with its management system, ensures per the requirements of the Companies Act, 2013. customer privacy and prevents concerns from developing into risks. There have been no customer The governance committee members and their privacy or security breaches in this year. chairman decide their agenda, frequency of their meetings respectively, involving other committee members when required. The assessment of business 29 Our Intellectual Property (IP) awareness and trainings the speciﬁed legislative and policy frameworks have been eﬀective enough to prevent issues prescribed by the Government of India. Our leaders pertaining to IP rights. are on several industry platforms such as CII, NASSCOM and on several other public forums and platforms, Policy advocacy addressing diverse segments of the society, with As a responsible corporate citizen, our enterprise advocacy positions consistent with the national policy designs and deploys its governance systems within frameworks, often inspiring proactive commitments. Board and Commitees Board of Directors Subroto Bagchi Prof. Pankaj Chandra Executive Chairman Independent Director Krishnakumar Natarajan Ramesh Ramanathan CEO and Managing Director Independent Director S. Janakiraman N. S. Parthasarathy Executive Director Executive Director V. G. Siddhartha Apurva Purohit Non-executive Director Independent Director Dr. Albert Hieronimus Rostow Ravanan Independent Director Alternate Director to N. S. Parthasarathy Prof. David B. Yoﬃe Independent Director 30 Board Commitees Strategic initiatives committee Investor grievance committee Krishnakumar Natarajan Dr. Albert Hieronimus Chairman Chairman Dr. Albert Hieronimus S. Janakiraman V. G. Siddhartha Prof. David B. Yoﬃe Administrative committee Investor and corporate governance committee Krishnakumar Natarajan Dr. Albert Hieronimus Chairman Chairman Subroto Bagchi V. G. Siddhartha S. Janakiraman Subroto Bagchi V. G. Siddhartha Compensation committee Corporate social responsibility committee Prof. David B. Yoﬃe Subroto Bagchi Chairman Chairman Prof. Pankaj Chandra N. S. Parthasarathy V. G. Siddhartha Prof. Pankaj Chandra Audit committee Ramesh Ramanathan Chairman Dr. Albert Hieronimus V. G. Siddhartha Apurva Purohit 31 Developing Expert Mindtree Minds 33 Perspective by the Head of People Function “Creating a culture of sustainability both at the organizational level and at the individual level is integral to our sustainability vision.” Initiating, facilitating and making progress on building responsibility culture which is based on a set of a culture of sustainability within an organization is values that are in turn based on a set of unshakable challenging, to say the least. However, it is quite beliefs. It is these values which our stakeholder important for organizations and undoubtedly so experiences as a customer, as a Mindtree Mind and for Mindtree. as a member of the society. Before we get into what we do, it is pertinent to deﬁne For example, while our rewards and recognition what sustainability means to us and what culture schemes have a positive incentive for responsibility, means to us. we have zero tolerance to issues around personal integrity. When it comes to ethics and integrity, Business sustainability means managing the ‘triple matters are of only black and white here, with no bottom line’ – where decision making takes into shades of gray. Every Mindtree Mind undergoes a account the ﬁnancial, social and environmental risks, session on integrity as a part of the induction. obligations and opportunities. And culture in this context means that all Mindtree Minds share a We are proud to have created an enterprise where common belief and vision of achieving a balance transparency is recognized and lived as an important between economic eﬃciency, social equity and value. An open, two-way communication is made environmental accountability. possible here across all levels of the organization. Our whistleblower policy with its emphasis on While all this may be true in many organizations, what independence of its jury is a testimony to our characterizes Mindtree’s approach is this: we hold this commitment to fairness and justice. view to create a culture of sustainability both at an organization level as Mindtree, and at an individual Our diversity charter opens our doors far and wide to level as Mindtree Minds. Evangelizing individual include and nurture people across gender, nationality, responsibility is an integral component of all leadership capabilities and orientations. We see it as our and educational programs we do at Mindtree. responsibility to create a nurturing environment, one of happy people with meaningful work, where What enables us to do this is the strong organizational everyone has an opportunity to unleash their culture we are perched on. Mindtree has instituted a full potential. 34 While we have made good progress in increasing our While we appreciate the fact that our people have gender diversity, we still have some way to go on this grown as responsible individuals, we would like to front. To contain the number of women dropping out further strengthen our eﬀorts at evangelizing of the career ladder, we have created strong support individual responsibility within the organization. mechanisms for our lady Mindtree Minds, and we’re committed to increasing our eﬀorts in better retaining N.S Parthasarathy President & COO of women talent through multiple ways and means. Developing the expert Mindtree Mind The expert Mindtree Mind is to be cultivated and cared for in a conscious way in order to be created. The way we approach development of our people is our sustainability character and culture right in the akin to that of a gardener tending to his garden, ﬁrst three months. We make it mandatory for our planting the saplings or re-planting the plants and fresh batches to pick and choose at least one from nurturing them by creating the right environment our wide range of sustainability and Individual Social needed for their growth. Responsibility (ISR) projects, participate in the activities of their choice and write a report on their Orchard is our program for young minds who enter experience and learnings. our enterprise from the campuses they graduate from. Fresh minds, just like saplings, are keen with curiosity, “We are happy to observe that freshers energetic with enthusiasm and tender in disposition. often ﬁnd the experience of sustainability Orchard is their ﬁrst brush with the environment and and ISR activities so meaningful that they the care taken here determines their growth ahead. volunteer for more than one project. Being able to ‘choose’ one’s project makes a We have 4-5 batches of 200-300 young minds diﬀerence. Mindtree is an environment that entering our environment every year. The period of allows you room for your choices in your three months they undergo at Orchard is not designed growth right from the very beginning.” to be a typical induction or orientation program, nor a training program. It is rather an exposure to an experiential, learning environment. This is designed so, on the basis of feedback from our delivery teams. The capability-building mode focuses on ‘doing’ rather than on ‘knowing’. Deepa Shekar – Senior Manager, If Orchard must succeed in transforming campus Culture & Competence (Campus Learning minds into Mindtree Minds, we needed to move from Program – Orchard) a faculty-led, teaching-centric model to a learner-led, experience-centric model, we decided. During 2013-14, we added many new elements to our pedagogy – development/maintenance projects, We have no ‘teachers’ for this discovery phase, learning histories and so on. We also program. It is our Project Leads who take three made some signiﬁcant changes in the curriculum month sabbaticals to help these young minds learn. based on a capability-based design. We insist that we expose our campus-fresh minds to 36 Orchard undergoing a transformation We insist that we expose our campus-fresh We are piloting a model under Orchard, which tries minds to our sustainability character and to encourage development of their technical, social culture right in the ﬁrst three months. and business mindset at this initial stage itself. This model would integrate health, ISR and Arboretum sustainability dimensions too. Piloting this plan, our This is our on-boarding platform for experienced Orchard members, from mid-2014, are going through talent pool, our lateral hires. Before they get on to real-life projects on waste, water, energy and social their projects, Arboretum acclimatizes them to the issues in the Chennai campus. By next year, we would new environment, exposing them to the Mindtree have consolidated our learning on this idea and culture, helping them to absorb and assimilate the scaled it to our pan-India Orchard program, which will essentials on a self-learning mode. Senior leaders move to our Bhubaneswar location. We look forward get involved in the process too, as a part of the to sharing our experience of the same, with our task of assimilation. stakeholders, in our next report. 37 Integrated into this induction is the exposure to courses are preferred to some external courses in Mindtree’s initiatives on social and environmental many instances, by our people. responsibility. This is built in as an essential part of the assimilation. Going forward, Arboretum would In this year, we formulated a new policy for our design interesting visual and educative modules on certiﬁcations, covering a wide band of employee sustainability actions and imperatives for the beneﬁt levels from delivery roles. We redesigned and of the lateral hires. re-launched a few courses. Culture & competence We sustained and further extended our behavioral At Mindtree, training and development function certiﬁcations, domain certiﬁcations and technical is conceptualized as culture and competence certiﬁcations during the year. In line with our function. The idea is not just to ‘train’ minds to meet goal of certiﬁcations to be available world-wide, the organizational goals but to develop them as we launched a course in Gainesville. competent and complete individuals and to aim at an enculturation of them into our strong work culture Going forward, we have drawn our plan for and ethos. These broader goals naturally have a progress for our learning & development area as a bearing on the design of our programs and on the whole for the year 2014-15. That includes, apart from emphasis we choose to lay on a set of core sustaining and extending current programs, increased parameters or practices. attention to creating e-content, digital classrooms, conducting eﬀectiveness study and also scaling While technical training is the most obvious part, our learning programs to our new endeavor we insist on a role-based training here. The strong at Bhubaneswar. point about our training is the depth we bring to it. The trainings are designed to be closely aligned with “The idea is not just to ‘train’ minds project needs, focusing on skills development while to meet the organizational goals but to keeping the rigor and complexity at challengingly develop them as competent and complete high levels. individuals and to aim at an enculturation of them into our strong work cultur Our trainings and certiﬁcations include domain-based and ethos.” certiﬁcations, trainings based on changing project needs and transformation-oriented ones. They also include the ones with leadership tracks and those oﬀering a horizontal support such as e-learning. Our project management certiﬁcation courses have evolved over the years and our in-house certiﬁcation Shiva Kumar GV – Program Director, 38 Culture & Competence Communication & culture academy “I liked the structure of the program. Applied The academy focuseson training Mindtree Minds on sessions really worked well for the group as it was behavioral and leadership skills. Mindtree considers close to reality. Emphasis was given to both communication as a key competence across levels development and maintenance projects. During the since it is a prerequisite to play any role eﬀectively. session we got lot of inputs from experts as well.” Hence we run exclusive communication programs Satish Subbaiah across all levels in the organization. Programs like COMM 101 are tied to promotions to ensure that “It was a refreshingly new concept. Felt great that communication is taken seriously and the essential Mindtree is investing money and eﬀorts. In my set of communication skills to interact with teams previous organizations, the applied part, the and customers is predetermined at the entry level interactions and group learning was missing. This itself. The leadership programs are designed around MCPM training however ﬁts the bill.” people and customer centricity. These programs are Vaibhav Munshi designed to equip Mindtree Minds with skills required to play their roles more eﬀectively and to make a “MCPM-1 course structure, in my humble opinion, positive impact. is a very well structured and focused program aimed on giving the right direction to project management Experience-sharing from participants thought process .Overall, the program has exceeded in project management courses my expectation and I believe I have enhanced my know-how on project management.” “MCPM-1 showed me The Big Picture of program Deepanjan Dhar management. Yes, it deﬁnitely inﬂuenced my work in all aspects.” Ramesh Kumar MS Increase in average training per employee per hour: 24 hours to 37 hours Category / Average hours of training Total no. of employees per category No. of hours of training per category level / per year per employee grade of employees # Male Female Total Male Female Total Male Female Total Associates 7,400 3,313 10,713.00 3,27,453.00 1,64,584.00 4,92,037.00 44.25 49.68 45.93 Middle 1,833 270 2,103.00 18,103.25 3,018.20 21,121.45 9.88 11.18 10.04 management Senior 110 6 116.00 267.00 8.00 275.00 2.43 1.33 2.37 management Top management 21 1 22.00 Subcontractors 727 222 949.00 1,400.00 168.00 1,568.00 1.93 0.76 1.65 TOTAL 10,091 3,812 13,903 3,47,223 1,67,778 5,15,001 34.41 44.01 37.04 39 Grooming future leaders Expert minds can be created with rigorous trainings but expert minds with leadership capabilities can be groomed only with eﬀective coaching and mentoring. Given the fact that ours is a knowledge-intensive middle levels rather than adopting or importing sector with a relentless demand on continuous ready-made solutions practiced elsewhere. learning and innovation to stay ahead of the curve, we are expected to develop our talent pool not only In 2007, we consolidated our goals and eﬀorts in with the required knowledge repertoire but also with this direction. We conceptualized our mentoring leadership potential. approach MentorMe and methodology and launched them in the form of a deﬁned framework to guide Mindtree has hence found it worthwhile to lay a us forward. This was one of the earliest attempts in special emphasis on developing the latent leadership this industry to develop and formalize an in-house potential of this level, not only to groom them as mentoring framework based on a home-grown model good leaders for the enterprise but also for their for holistic development for Mindtree Minds. own growth as individuals. Responsibility towards the planet, the society and fellow human-beings We have since then revised and reﬁned our is an integral part of this growth. framework and methodology. We are happy to see it function eﬀectively today, integrating growth Mindtree’s approach to people aspirations of individuals as well as that of the development embraces the broader organization. This insistence on integrated growth has naturally placed mentoring and coaching at the heart responsibility of developing the individual of leadership development. holistically, beyond developing him / her to meet the organizational objectives. The pedagogy focuses on experience Our talent development and leadership grooming based learning and one-on-one mentoring programs are designed to render justice to this and coaching, refraining deliberately broader goal. Expert minds can be created with from group coaching. rigorous trainings but expert minds with leadership capabilities can be groomed only with eﬀective Based on our learning throughout these years, our coaching and mentoring. Mindtree has been deeply programs have changed from orientation courses to involved in this endeavor for years, choosing to experience-based mentoring. They have now develop its own frameworks and pedagogy suited for transformed into self-driven, structured learning 40 modules. Our approach has evolved, in other words, bands in the last year. The three focal points of from being program-focused to one that is the program are: connect, careers and learning. initiative-led. The individual initiative plays a signiﬁcant role here in charting out his/her course of Connect growth as a leader, strongly supported by the This platform is designed with the objective of one-on-one mentoring and coaching framework. learning from emerging leaders or leaders outside Mindtree. The purpose is to meet the challenge of Ours is a rigorously developed cultivating the culture of learning and listening from framework but not a numbers-driven other leaders. program. Our numbers in these engagements have, in fact, been falling: from 400 pairs in 2009 to 70 The platform invites external speakers from varied pairs of mentor-mentees under our open programs. industry segments ranging from medicine, IT, This had to be done to bring in a better focus and a entertainment and social entrepreneurs speaking on deeper impact to our initiative without compromising their leadership experiences and insights. on our ‘no group mentoring’ motto. This is a diverse and interactive platform which has not only opened our people’s horizons to new areas “Today, our one-on-one mentoring platform but has also helped us build better connect with our has certainly resulted in several positive internal leaders, improving communication and impacts in relationships across levels apart co-learning between managers and super managers. from better leverage of leadership potential in our people. Also, mentees go on to become mentors themselves not Avant garde This is a guided innovation program which provides necessarily in the formal sense. This results visibility and creates value for emerging leaders. in a sort of mentoring culture itself. And this Tickling the ‘innovation nerve’ of the emerging is the true and larger impact of a deliberate leaders and making them ‘think out of the box’, the and deep one-on-one focus.” program elicits ideas from anywhere and everywhere, Meenalochani Kumar – Consultant, which promise potential beneﬁts in revenue, people Competencies & Emerging Leaders development and operational excellence. While Mindtree runs an organization-wide initiative Emerging Leaders Program (ELP) for innovation, ELP feeds it as a fast-track, The ELP program at Mindtree addresses a part of its contributing as much as one half of all the ideas from mid-level as ‘Emerging Leaders’. This is a holistic across the enterprise. Facilitated by an external coach intervention for our middle management, in place and guide, the program produced 56 ideas while the since 2007, which covered 52% of our mid-level entire enterprise generated 50 ideas in the year being 41 reported. The prioritized set of ten ideas has entered Some of our unique learning programs the next level of exploration for development in the My persona is a program on self-branding, year 2014-15. equipping a mid-manager to identify his/her strengths and focus on personal branding. Careers Emerging leaders are known to have an intense desire Managers as coaches is a program which for career-clarity. This has been addressed through equips managers to be a coach to their team Career Scape, our internal career portal that provides members, instilling values of listening and the art a landscape of careers across the organization. This of coaching. Our emerging leaders say that this is a portal oﬀers clarity in terms of career tracks and roles learning which helps to connect them through their for emerging leaders as much as for the rest of the career and that sharing insights with two other organization. Each role has deﬁned Key Result Areas Mindtree Minds enhances their performance. (KRAs), competencies required and learning associated with the role. The intent is to make careers meaningful Negotiation skills and life skills and insightful for every Mindtree Mind. programs to handle stress and manage work-life balance and Cross-cultural programs for emerging leaders who travel or interact with Learning global clients. Emerging leaders go through our multi-pronged approach to learning, ranging from blended learning Emerging leaders speaking and classroom learning to industry exchange programs, simulation and gamiﬁed learning. The learning of their takeaways coverage for the target segments (C6 & C7 Mindtree “The ELP event calendars are something I am Minds) was 52% in Year 1. always awaiting eagerly. Leader Talk series always provides a better perspective and fresh The Avenue Program is a tiered learning approach that insights –inspirational ones, The self-gear has focuses on a multi-level exploratory approach helped me to re-invent myself.” beginning with the self, then moving to teams, to Ravishankar MP organization, industry and ﬁnally, learning from society. Action learning and dialogue circles are used as key “ELP initiative has helped in orbital maneuver components to create ‘insight’ here. Group coaching from knowing leadership to practicing as a concept has been used extensively along with leadership. The activities carried through the projects that enable learning application. E-Learning programme helped identify and address the programs provide learning anywhere anytime. 18% of leadership indecisiveness. The learning is a emerging leaders who have taken the e-courses vouch stepping stone for reaching self and for their eﬀectiveness, informativeness, relevance organizational goals.” and ease of use. Chakravarthy 42 The program covers the top layers of the enterprise, “It is transformational. I will describe it as comprising the levels of GM, VP and CXO 140 top 'emerging leaders journey from good to great', Mindtree Minds in all, and involves on-boarding, a comprehensive focus from self to social integration, transition, talent review and leadership (me, team, organization, industry, society). development components of the challenge. The It enables the leader to be eﬀective and leadership imperative at Mindtree expects the leaders eﬃcient. Unique and best-in-class program to be strong on four key attributes which we call from Mindtree. I recommend this to all ‘agility factors’. They are agilities with respect to emerging leaders in Mindtree. Thanks for mental, people, change and results. We expect our this opportunity.” leaders to be strong on at least one of the four Leelavathi GH competencies: as a coach or a mentor or a ninja or a rainmaker. Our vision of leadership development sees “Excellently conducted and coordinated, a leader emerging out of his/her strength on the four course content has been designed with a agility factors, combined with at least one of the four great detail and has ensured that topics are competencies and catalyzed by the extent of interesting and at the same time the objective self-awareness he/she brings into the whole process. is also met. For many Mindtree Minds, some of the topics were new. Good set of exercises. Our program for senior leaders is an array of careful I liked the initiative and am thankful to designs and structures with clear emphasis on Mindtree’s senior leadership for investing in review and outcomes. this program. I am reaping huge beneﬁts by applying the circle of control, inﬂuences and Succession planning is clearly an area concerns. In fact it has been stress release we have developed a keen attention on, since we tool for me.” believe it goes a long way in ensuring leadership Sandeep Ganpat Rao Kulkarni sustainability at various levels and functions at the top. Succession planning is a matter which is of high challenge for our industry and other industries as Leadership development program well, as scale and complexity of business are bound Top leaders of the enterprise are in the nurturing to grow exponentially in India. This is also a matter of hands of the Chairman, Subroto Bagchi, who plays growing concern for the stakeholders today, reﬂecting neither the role of a coach nor that of a mentor to in much discussions and debate in the media. Our them, but that of a ‘gardener’. This is reﬂective of the approach is to lay a conscious emphasis on invidualized care and growth intended and planned at succession planning and build it into the larger this enterprise. framework of leadership development. 43 External Identify Stretch Review Communication & Talent Identify gaps & assignments & & internal review successor development critical move to leadership assessments pool plannning experiences new role transition Leadership homing our leadership integration “We recognize and acknowledge that initiative, is conceptualized to integrate new leaders succession planning is an issue of into our ecosystem and to create a ‘social contract’ increasing signiﬁcance in our context and of leaders with Mindtree. times. The leadership programs we design and follow are designed to proactively Our strategic talent review for leaders is based on mitigate any concerns with respect to role review, development focus, succession, leader’s succession planning in leadership.” performance potential and 360 degree leadership assessment. Leadership assessment for 2013-14 Vidya Santhanam Associate Director, covered and discussed 75 leaders and went through Organization Development and a detailed process of talent review. The assessment Organization Engagement places each of them on a 3*3 potential assessment matrix on potential and performance dimensions. Our Leadership on-boarding & integration programs of top leaders go through a thorough developmental Mindtree aim at melding new and existing leaders to feedback and coaching process based on the review. welcome and assimilate them into our organizational culture, teams and their challenging roles. On-boarding mentors are in charge of the process of assimilation to make it happen with ease and certainty. 44 Engaging the individual in performance Engagement of people is a matter of getting several interrelated concepts right. One of the most important measures of our motivating Compensation and Beneﬁts (C&B) system, organizational performance is customer satisfaction. dedicated focus on retention mechanisms, multiple Our Customer Experience Surveys (CES) consistently platforms for people to engage themselves show increasing, high level performance scores over meaningfully, holistic health and safety programs, the years across multiple criteria such as satisfaction, eﬀective grievance redressal to smoothen out issues loyalty, advocacy and value for money. This is a in time and a Rewards and Recognition (R&R) system reﬂection of how engaged our people are in customer to keep people thriving. Underlying them all is our service and the power of the back-end support that emphasis on maintaining a culture of human enables it. In a knowledge-driven service industry sensitivity, which we consider as an imperative. such as ours where over 90% of business accrues through repeat business with satisﬁed customers, Performance management engagement for performance, naturally, is a major Our Performance Management solution, PACE is a next business driver. For organizations where ‘people’ are generation practice. The process emphasis is on more than ‘employees’, engagement must take deeper decision-making at managerial levels. roots. For us, this implies looking at an individual holistically and nurturing him/her from entry to exit We follow the concept of right to feedback to with the help of various enabling systems and enable Mindtree Minds to get feedback from all the supports. managers they have worked with. This system allows managers to cascade goals to ensure there is alignment Engagement of people is broadly a function of in goals at all levels. The cascading of goals was getting several diﬀerent and interrelated concepts introduced as a system feature this year. 7% goals right. It includes setting and interlinking a rigorous were cascaded down. Our annual performance Performance Management System (PMS), fair and appraisals aim to cover 100% of eligible employees. 2013-14: Performance reviews Male Female Total Total number of employees 9,325 3,545 12,870 Total number of eligible employees 6,563 2,570 9,133 Total number of employees receiving regular 6,546 2,519 9,065 performance appraisals (annual appraisals released) PERCENTAGE 99.7% 98.0% The entire performance management process is implemented by an online package success factors 45 The 360 degree approach we follow oﬀers a During the process, the Mindtree Mind goes through unique opportunity for managers to ﬁnd out how the steps of analyzing the report, interpreting the their managers, their colleagues, their direct reports, results, understanding the advantages of the report, their fellow team members, their internal and knowing one’s blind spots and strengths and uncovers external customers and their suppliers perceive one’s unknown/hidden areas for development. The their behaviour. individual then starts working on the IDP vetted by the facilitator. The 360 degree feedback program has been a part of Mindtree’s performance management system since Our C&B system is also backed by the success factors. 2008. In 2012, Mindtree underwent a repositioning The focus of our compensation system is to pay for and realigning of its brand and values. Keeping in line performance; position ourselves competitively to with this change, the 360 degree feedback program attract and retain talent and ensure fairness and also underwent changes. Till 2012, the 360 degree equality in compensation. Our keenness on timely feedback program evaluated Mindtree Minds on a payment cuts across types of employment and values-based behavioral assessment instrument ensures no incidents of delay in payments. common to all. The revised 360 degree feedback program involves a shift from a values-based form Our R&R systems are based on intrinsic motivational to a values-led form. The outcome of 360 degree values. Internal awards system includes the prestigious feedback is for purely developmental basis and chairman’s awards for diﬀerent categories. Social has no bearing on appraisals or reviews. impact of individuals is one such category where Mindtree recognizes and applauds individuals with Mindtree Minds are empowered through socially impactful accomplishments. Our R&R systems the 360 degree feedback system to take do not solicit self-nominations. It is always peers or superiors who nominate individuals for such charge of their own growth. The feedback report recognitions. We are happy as an organization to have is designed to help people choose their development set and promoted this culture of humility for the self areas easily. The report provides a detailed analysis of and of rejoicing in the accomplishment of others. the feedback, gaps between self-assessment and others’ assessment, probable development areas to Our pillars program is meant for nurturing star choose and a snapshot of the comparison of feedback performers. Those who consistently achieve high with that of others. performance ratings are invited to this club which takes them through a specially designed path of As a result of the feedback received, individuals experiential learning, certiﬁcations, recognition get to set their Individual Development Plan (IDP) and mentoring by senior leaders. by choosing 2-3 areas they would want to work on and they take 12-15 months for developing those plans further. 46 Multiple platforms of engagement and improving retention levels is the eﬀective work by our Employee Retention Council. This is a Several initiatives are planned to enhance mechanism which explores the intended exits with engagement levels in our people. Our initiatives such much care and concern, addressing the causal issues as MiVoice, FunDo Club and Mindspace work towards behind intended exits including the ones at very deepening engagement levels while keeping the joy early stages of employment to the best extent alive at the workplace. We participate in the ‘Great possible, trying to restore the commitment levels of Places to Work’ survey, which keeps us surpassing our the people in exit. own benchmarks. We have an exclusive charter on this theme, called Fun@Work Charter. The innovative and empathetic approach of the Council has been eﬀective in reversing 149 exits in Retaining our people the year 2013-14. That is, 149 people were retained The eﬀectiveness of our engagement eﬀorts reﬂects after they had resigned, due to the eﬀorts of the in our satisfactory retention levels and low attrition Retention Council in addressing the causes in a levels shown in the relevant data table. Further mutually eﬀective way. complementing our keenness on containing attrition Total number of new employee hires leaving the organisation in the reporting period by category, region, age & gender 2013-14 Categorisation Male Female Total By employee category Associates 233 124 357 Middle management 38 9 47 Senior management 0 0 0 Top management 0 0 0 By region India 250 124 374 UK 0 1 1 US 20 8 28 Others 1 0 1 By age < 30 201 115 316 30 50 68 16 84 > 50 2 2 4 TOTAL 404 47 Total employee attrition by category, region, age & gender 2013-14 Categorisation Male Female Total By employee category Associates 1,213 597 1,810 Middle management 440 103 543 Senior management 9 1 10 Top management 3 0 3 By region India 1,498 671 2,169 UK 10 3 13 US 130 27 157 Others 27 0 27 By age < 30 929 479 1,408 30 50 709 218 927 > 50 27 4 31 TOTAL 1,665 701 2,366 Engaging from the entry level being reported in our full-time, part-time or Engagement factors are designed to be at play right contractual workforce. from the stage of entry. A great many sustainability practices, we have found, result in better engagement While there are no trade unions or collective and higher motivation. Our practice of local hiring bargaining platforms within the enterprise, workers across levels and locations, for example, is a good are suﬃciently represented in several committees practice boosting engagement levels. We place an and forums such as health & safety committee, food emphasis on local hiring at the senior levels too, to committees, emergency response training and the the extent possible. like, where they are likely to be directly aﬀected by the decisions and where their involvement is Also, we have maintained healthy ratios between our important. 8% Mindtree Minds are involved in such entry level wage and local norms, ensuring there is no committees across our locations in India. bias across genders. Our net of beneﬁts covers our people quite widely. There are no incidents/cases of People employed with us full-time avail of a set discriminations of any nature including human rights, of standard beneﬁts across India and US locations, 48 with UK and Rest of the World showing insigniﬁcant (B +ve), wellness program (HMHB), personal accident variations: group term insurance, healthcare-medical insurance, special needs leave, emergency medical insurance, disability (cab) facility, parental leave, fund, loans and advances, reduced working hours retirement provision, stock ownership (as approved and sabbatical. by the compensation committee), counseling program 2013-14 India UK US (Rs. per day) Male Female Male Female Male Female Entry level wage 1,160.0 1,160.0 132.0 136.0 240.0 240.0 Local minimum wage 339 339 110.4 110.4 213.1 213.1 RATIO (ELW:LMW) 3.42 3.42 1.20 1.23 1.13 1.13 Health & wellness holistic corporate wellness program and our policies Our India locations being OHSAS 1800:2007certiﬁed, and practices for work-life balance work together to we have a system-level monitoring going on health maintain and enhance the well-being of our people. and safety. A comprehensive Environment, Health and B+ve, our employee assistance program, gives a Safety (EHS) policy and a corporate wellness program platform for neutral and objective assistance from keep us maintain focus and vigilance on health and qualiﬁed counselors, with conﬁdentiality. safety-related matters. Our health portal is a one stop shop for all health We call our wellness program ‘Healthy Mind Healthy related queries. It has a host of health related articles, Body’ (HMHB) and we have built it on four pillars as online chat sessions with dieticians and exercise shown in the picture below: health beneﬁts, physical ﬁnders. A detailed list of health and well-being wellbeing, psychological wellbeing and education programs is provided in the table below. awareness. Our management system OHSAS, our Highlights of health & wellnss services: 2013-14 Various health & wellness services Number of sessions / people benefited in 2013-14 1. Employee Assistance Programs (EAP) Counseling services 3943 2. Onsite first aid center 1750 3. Ergonomics trainings Over 300 4. Health camps 2500 5. Health assessment tool, webinar sessions 550 6. Stress buster session ‘excessive happiness‘ 1500 49 We also have an online solution for health with We have piloted 20 sessions in Bangalore and referral networks and support systems available. Chennai with over 1500 Mindtree Minds participating Over 10 webinars were conducted in which over 550 in these programs and are glad to see beneﬁcial participants participated. eﬀects reported by them. We have proposed to scale and sustain these initiatives across all locations. Work life balance being considered by us as key to health and wellness, 12 work life balance sessions We had no serious accidents or injury or fatalities were conducted with over 850 minds participating. during the year under reporting. 31 of our people had The topics of the workshops were need based and minor health complaints or injuries during the year focused on managing stress, relationship, shift which included their personal health issues and management and so on. seven cases of minor injuries, due to which 28 of them took leave leading to 76 days of absenteeism. We have introduced laughter therapy as a tool to manage stress and practice happiness at work place. Physical Health beneﬁts Awareness well-being  Medical insurance  Talks by experts  Healthy mind  Group personal and workshops healthy body initiatives accident insurance  Health camps  First aid centers  Group term life  Ergonomic consulting insurance and evaluations  Leave policies  Fitness camps  Baby’s day out and day care centers Psychological Safety & well-being security  B+ve:  Safety & Employee security training Assistance  Emergency Program (EAP) response teams Knowledge management Communities are opportunities where we link and informally nurture groups of like-minded people, and sustainability encouraging them to share, exchange, bond and build Our people and sustainability-related goals are on ideas. Several of our ‘green ideas’ have emerged integrated into our knowledge management and they from these communities. Over 50 communities are come alive in action through various communities vibrantly active in Mindtree today. thriving within the organization. 50 The vibrancy and the impact of our communities are a A few examples of our communities: source of study and inspiration for people even The Green Community, a group for the ecologically outside our enterprise. The study on our communities concerned gets busy throughout the year running by Harvard Business School is a case in point. (Garvin, awareness campaigns – through ﬂiers, posters, David A. and Rachna Tahilyani. MindTree: A mailers, arranging talks by experts on social issues, Community of Communities. working on ecological issues directly, planning Harvard Business School Case 311-049, August 2010, projects and executing them. Revised November 2011; Link: http://www.hbs.edu/faculty/Pages/item.aspx?num=39280) The Dhriti Community is platform for women Mindtree Minds focusing on their exclusive challenges and issues, trying to address them, “We at Mindtree ﬁrmly believe that motivating them not only to be assimilated well into when control is softer, there will be more the organization but also to enhance their potential. self-organization and collaboration. Our KM This community is very crucial for our organizational communities are a vibrant example of our goals of enhancing our gender diversity performance belief system.” further, of increasing the number of women especially Sajeev VK Program Director, at senior levels and of providing them with the right Knowledge Management support to achieve it. 51 Engaging the supply chain Extending our values and governance norms to our supply chain, we have committed to applying our supplier code of conduct on our vendors. Our vendor base has grown to over 2000 in the last is underway too. The vendor feedback system we 15 years and we have moved to a more systemized, have instituted a hotline to our Chief Financial automated vendor management portal, Ariba, for Oﬃcer (CFO) has received no complaints this year reasons of eﬃciency and eﬀective control. Several of just as the previous one. We are moving towards a our oldest vendors are still with us and we are proud more rigorous supplier rating system and also to continue to avail of their excellent services. These towards green procurement wherever possible. Our old relationships are proud partnerships that we enterprise level commitment to LEED standards on cherish as we continue to strive to develop our our new buildings is naturally ensuring green hundreds of new vendor relationships into such procurement and practices of local sourcing. eﬀective and enduring partnerships as well. With a large supplier base that is growing every year, Extending our values and governance norms to our we see both challenges and opportunities for supply chain, we have committed to applying our integrating a sustainability agenda in procurement. supplier code of conduct on our vendors. Our checks We are keen on ensuring gender diversity across our and balances at the evaluation level and our supplier supplier base, encouraging and sourcing from women code of conduct at the policy level ensure that there entrepreneurs. are no human rights violations with labor (such as forced labor or child labor) across our vendor base. We plan to strengthen our sustainability commitment further in the area of supply chain management in the In the reporting year, we carried out vendor years to come and would be sharing our progress on assessment and evaluation by visiting the site oﬃce the same in our next report with information on of a set of our vendors before we enrolled them, number of vendors screened and rated, number of assessing them on physical infrastructure, working women vendors we source from, the extent of our conditions, use and type of labor, respect for human ‘green procurement’ and so on. rights, quality of infrastructure and tools, materials used and sustainable practices. Our inclusive philosophy regards our suppliers and service providers as our valuable partners While we have planned a supplier meet once every in our sustainability journey. We commit to three years to align them with our brand identity and strengthening our engagement platforms culture, we have started pre-board evaluation process along our supply chain as growth expands on a random sampling basis. Our procurement manual our supplier base. 52 Prem Chandavarkar Managing Partner, KB Nagaraj Director, CnT Architects, Bangalore i4 Communications Pvt. Ltd., Bangalore We have been working with Mindtree right from the We have been the networking partners for Mindtree time of their inception. We worked on their very ﬁrst from day one, in our earlier identity as ACS and we facility at Basavangudi in Bangalore 15 years back and continue to serve them through our new company i4 went on to do several interior and architectural Communications. We have handled the passive projects later on. The work we have done for them at networking assignments for all their locations and will Whiteﬁeld, Bangalore and the new one at be doing their Bhubaneswar facility as well. Bhubaneswar are designed to be LEED certiﬁed on architectural as well as interior design. We had the We know people in Mindtree from the time even opportunity to do our bit of CSR by contributing with before it was set up. But Mindtree is too professional our architectural competence when Mindtree to let any of us relax in that comfort zone. They are Foundation funded a home for the destitute for tough, meticulous and rigorous to the last detail in Missionaries of Charity. everything. They demand best quality at most competitive prices and are uncompromising on their Mindtree is an inclusive company with an values. They are at the top of the charts when it uncompromising attitude towards social values. And comes to integrity and honesty. At the same time, we have not seen that change or dilute with their there is an underlying respect for this relationship growth. Their work in CSR and environmental which goes a long way back, a humane consideration responsibility are fairly known to all. They are also and a certain sensitiveness which is very unique keen on designing their workplace beyond to Mindtree. functionality and branding, to communicate their culture and values. We appreciate their recent It feels great to see the phenomenal growth of this re-branding as an expertise-driven, customer-focused ethical organization in just a decade and a half and to company and we are sure they are on a fast trajectory appreciate how they are able to maintain that level of of growth ahead. integrity with no room for loopholes. As they continue to pursue their future goals, we would be happy to In this new context, if they want to remain an IT continue to oﬀer our service expertise to them. company with a diﬀerence, they may have to look at how they manage scale by institutionalizing certain Suresh Kumar General Manager, key capabilities in innovative thinking, nurturing, Bluestar Ltd. value-based implementation and so on. If this results We have been providing mainly air conditioning in these capabilities getting rooted down the line solutions to Mindtree in Bangalore, since 2006, across all levels of the organization, they are bound to occasionally oﬀering our support and expertise in touch new heights on the same strong foundation. areas such as water softening systems, energy audits And we look forward to remaining their trusted and facilitating for their requirements outside partners. Bangalore through our channel partners. We work 53 with a lot of companies, big and small and we The way this business account of ours has ﬂourished undertake projects of various sizes with our makes us view it as a relationship rather than as a customers. Feasibility of commercials and excellence mere business. When business becomes a of service delivery are bottomline expectations in all relationship, beneﬁts can go beyond commercials. of these relationships; and Mindtree is no exception. They are highly stringent on setting the budget and We are happy to acknowledge that our association with service standards. Mindtree has brought about a sea change in the work culture and ethics of Guardwell. Guardwell in turn What distinguishes Mindtree is the way they treat strives to enhance its service quality and standards in their vendors. What marks vendor relationship at diﬀerent ways to beneﬁt its valuable customer. Mindtree is ‘respect for the individual’. We have experienced it throughout our engagement with them As a part of our endeavor to add value to this and this is true for their top as well as operational important relationship, we have invested a levels. Ultimately business is not all about money. We well-trained skilled work force at Mindtree in keeping have customers of larger deal sizes for sure, but the with the changing times. We have trained almost 50% respect with which we are held here is something that of our guard-force of Mindtree in SSSDC (Security Skill we greatly appreciate and value. Sector Development Council, which is the program initiated by Government of India in the National Skill Now that Mindtree sets higher growth targets, with Development Council) Certiﬁcation over the years and higher scale must come higher eﬃciencies through we intend to cover the remaining in the coming year. automation and software-driven systems and We are working on ways to improve our preparedness processes. On the ﬂipside, these processes at times and response time in emergencies. may not consider inconveniences of a vendor the way people-driven systems can. Going forward, Mindtree To enhance the output of the guard-force, Mindtree may have to study the human costs of being too and Guardwell have worked together over the years in process-oriented and mitigate those with appropriate the mode of espiritde-corps by way of Guard mechanisms in order to keep their human touch Sabhas, joint celebrations of Independence and intact. This is perhaps an inevitable step for any Republic Days, recognition & rewards and friendly company scaling rapidly. cricket matches. These engagements have not only enhanced the output and involvement levels but also Vishwanath V. Katti MD, Guardwell brought people of Mindtree and Guardwell into the Detective Services Pvt. Ltd., Bangalore folds of a rock solid fraternity. Guardwell’s relationship with Mindtree dates back to the early phase of Mindtree’s operations where we placed six security guards on their premises. Now this number has gone up 190. 54 S.Venkataraman Senior General Manager, To site an example, the Head of procurement goes India Operations Support Services, through the minute details of the salaries we pay to Compass Group (India) our people and makes his recommendations instead Our association with Mindtree goes back for nearly of just handing down a broad package and leaving the a decade now, with us providing workplace hygiene details to us. The team at Mindtree knows most of our solutions and building utility services across Mindtree staﬀ and their families and understands their issues oﬃces in Bangalore, Chennai and Hyderabad. This surprisingly well. The Chairman insists on having is an enriching and valuable relationship for us and lunch with our staﬀ on the ﬁrst of January every year we are happy to be working in partnership with a and joins them in an annual picnic! What’s more, we progressive and like-minded organization such have even changed our policies to pay our salaries for as Mindtree. staﬀ onsite, in alignment with Mindtree’s payment cycles. As a result, our employees across Mindtree We have approximately 275 of our employees locations have a sense of belongingness and have providing service across Mindtree locations. More reported the lowest attrition percentage amongst than 30% of them are women. Our employees are our clientele. actively involved in Mindtree’s initiatives in energy, waste management and other environmental Going forward, considering the growth trajectory that activities and initiatives of Mindtree Foundation have Mindtree is on and the humane values that Mindtree indeed touched their lives. lives by, we are conﬁdent of maintaining speed of execution, not compromising on quality and Compass Group (India) partners over 420 client partnering with Mindtree in this trusted relationship locations in providing world class food and support during our journey ahead. services. In an industry like ours where most traditional mindsets see our association as that of a contractual service provider or a vendor, Mindtree is an exception and builds its vendor engagements on a relationship-based model which is beyond commercials and core deliveries. 55 Being diverse and inclusive Our approach Our organization has not only created a safe and A social conscience with human sensitivity was an accommodative environment for them to work in and integral part of the mission right when this enterprise contribute to, but has also learnt subtler sensitivities was conceived as an idea in 1998. From the very in the process, thus leading to a deeply empathetic beginning, we were sure it is our conviction in social culture. We believe our inclusiveness has not only conscience that would be the chisel for shaping the helped the people included but has also helped us character of this enterprise and the core material that to become better individuals. would hold, in times to come, the fabric of its culture. Diverse Our adherence to this conviction irrespective of the Inclusion and diversity are closely related concepts vagaries of our ﬁnancial fortunes, helps give us a aﬃrming each other. Our inclusive approach naturally human face, we hope, in our quite faceless industry. makes us a diverse environment and vice versa. Our philosophy of inclusion, diversity, our approach In our experience, the diversity in our enterprise adds to people as people (and not as resources) and the a richness of talents, perspectives and results in dedicated focus we reserve for the individual multiple values being created. The diversity we thrive emanate from our desire to keep this human face on spans across race, religion, ethnicity, nationality, intact. This, in fact, is the very basis of our gender and sexual orientation and includes people responsibility vision. It is this vision that guides us with disability. towards inclusive policies, frameworks and charters which can keep us on the track. For us, people are not ‘resources’. They are ‘people’! Societies can ﬂourish only when people thrive; and people thrive only when Inclusive organizations nurture them. From the very beginning, inclusion was in our ideology. Diversity was our conviction. People with For us, hence, workplace sustainability takes crucial disability were part of our ﬁrst few employees and signiﬁcance. It is here that we get our ﬁrst chance to they still are, contributing in meaningful ways, cause impacts and transformations of the deepest being a valuable part of our enterprise. kind the most sustainable ones perhaps. Inclusion of people with disability is a Our people are the source and the reason for our conscious step by us, in line with our respect brand and for its value. Our brand is built on these for the individual and our trust in his/her expert Mindtree Minds who are dedicated to what power to create value at diﬀerent levels. they do and collaborate in many ways to bring out 56 value. Yet, they are not ‘capital’ or ‘resources’ for us. We believe, our ﬁrst and foremost step into Because our people are more than resources for us, sustainability is to ensure that our expert we have chosen to call our human resource function, Mindtree Minds develop empathetic hearts a ‘people function’. and relate to the world through a human face. Hence we invest our attention in People are ‘individuals’. making this transformation happen within People are diverse and uniquewhich makes them our organization. ‘individuals’. Like each seed has a unique potential and needs a right care, people need individualized paths to growth. Mindtree is mindful of this need Organizational enablers and it constantly builds and evolves systems and Our policy on non-discrimination and policy on equal programs, practices and processes to achieve opportunity of employment anchor our eﬀorts further. satisfactory levels of individualized nurturing for Together, they open up space for our diversity and growth-both professional and personal. inclusion goals. On the professional front, it shows itself in its Insisting on neutrality with respect to gender, on-boarding programs, on the job training and nationality, ethnicity, disability and sexual orientation development, leadership development programs and of people, they make our workplace a diverse and an coaching and mentoring initiatives. Overall personal inclusive one. development endeavors form the background for many of our programs and practices– volunteering, While our policies give us the important direction Individual Social Responsibility (ISR) activities, towards these goals, our charter on diversity gives us rewards and recognition forums, community activities a framework to formulate our strategies, action plans and the like. and initiatives. Mindtree’s diversity charter Ethnicity / People with Gender Sexual Nationality Disabilities Orientation 57 Gender diversity Work-life balance being a critical requirement Our sector, being a knowledge-intensive one, allows especially for women, we oﬀer beneﬁts and terms to and enables us to be gender-neutral with respect to enhance it. our talent pool. To actually achieve it, however, needs Flexi work, part-time work, work-from-home and a conscious approach to gender diversity. On one compensatory oﬀsthe options we oﬀer are a step hand, this calls for incentivizing recruitment of women to bring about better balance between work and life. across levels and on the other, it presents the challenge of creating a suitable work environment, Special Needs leave of 365 days without pay this conducive terms of employment, support systems and leave can be used after a minimum tenure of one career tracks to retain and grow them into leaders that year, in a block period of six years and needs to be they can be. used for a minimum duration of 90 calendar days. More than 800 women Mindtree Minds have Mindtree commits itself to addressing gender availed of this beneﬁt. diversity and all the challenges it brings, in multiple ways, since we believe in creating a world of equal Support mechanisms such as child care crèches, opportunity and we greatly value the contribution Baby’s Day Out facility, ensuring safety and women bring in to our enterprise. security during transport are our small but ﬁrm steps which go a long way in smoothening our Women formed 16% of our people in 2004. Ten women’s work-life balance challenges. years from then, they form 28% of our talent pool now. This has been a result of a combination of Employee network groups active in the factors: policy guidance, strategic push in talent organization while in general help women to acquisition, special support mechanisms for women, mainstream themselves into the organization, engagement forums, career tracks, coaching and the exclusive one, Dhriti, has developed into an mentoring for growth and so on. active community forum where they share and learn from each other and from experts and We have started special recruitment drives for undergo self-development programs and women, special incentives for recruiters who source career-shaping guidance. women candidates and additional incentives on employee referrals for recruitment of women. A combination of our policies, beneﬁts, support As we strive to better our gender diversity status systems and good engagement mechanisms play a at senior levels of management, we are happy to role in proportion of women returning to work after announce a woman director into our Board of maternal leave. We are proud to see a 100% return. Directors during the year 2013-14. This takes our 82% are still engaged with us even after a year. gender-focus to new levels, while strengthening the aspirations of our capable women Mindtree Minds. 58 Going forward, some of our plans for improving Physical infrastructure gender diversity include: Mindtree campuses are built such that people with Enhancing the number of women at middle and disabilities can maneuver without assistance: There senior levels are specially built rest rooms available on every ﬂoor. Train women for jobs that have traditionally been a Ramps are built at all entrances to enable easy ‘man’s domain’ movement. Power wheel chairs are provided for the Spread diversity recruitment goals among wider people with mobility disabilities. groups across the organization. Social infrastructure Our policy of Reasonable Accommodation (RA) Including people with disability guides us in making modiﬁcations wherever needed We included ten more people with disability in the in terms of work proﬁles or job descriptions of people year 2013-14, taking their number to 41 in all. In fact, with disability so that they are capable of using they are ‘specially-abled minds’ for us. their potential. Right from our early days, we found it satisfying and We have emphasized the building of much-needed meaningful to work with people with disability both sensitivity to assimilate people with disabilities into within the organization and outside. Our earliest logo our enterprise. Our culture does not permit us to see was designed by a boy with cerebral palsy – from this assimilation as we ‘helping’ the people with Spastic Society of Karnataka (SSK). Our walls continue disability but as a way for us to be inclusive, diverse, to be adorned with wallpapers which are paintings by empathetic and therefore, humane. children from SSK or from Spastics Society of Tamil Nadu (SPASTN) As we stand to receive much appreciation and admiration from some of our stakeholder segments Assimilating people with disabilities takes action and for our inclusive eﬀorts towards people with involvement at several levels the right infrastructure disability, we are keenly aware there are still more needs to be made available, technology to be things to be done in this regard by business leveraged to facilitate their functioning, work to be organizations including us, to pace up the process of redesigned at times to accommodate their special mainstreaming people with disability. You will be needs and so on. Most importantly, right sensitivity is seeing more action from us certainly in the near to be consciously built into the organization-wide future evolving us further in that direction. environment and its culture. We have designed and modiﬁed our physical, emotional and social infrastructure to eﬀectively embrace the challenges present in including people with disability. 59 A look at our people-mix, new hires, maternity / paternity leave availed, salary ratios: Categorisation 2013-14 Male Female Total By employee category Associates 5,789 2,836 8,625 Middle management 3,493 748 4,241 Senior management 37 1 38 Top management 21 1 22 By employee category Permanent 9,340 3,586 12,926 Contract 726 223 949 By employee category Total number of employees in FTEs 9,340 3,586 12,926 Full time employees (headcount) 9,340 3,586 12,926 Part time employees (headcount) 0 0 0 By region India 7,866 3,400 11,266 UK 168 25 193 US 955 126 1,081 Others 351 35 386 By age < 30 4,889 2,552 7,441 30 50 4,380 1,022 5,402 > 50 71 12 83 TOTAL 9,340 3,586 12,926 Total number of new employee hires by category, region, age & gender Categorisation 2013-14 Male Female Total By employee category Associates 1,880 739 2,619 Middle management 560 106 666 Senior management 10 0 10 Top management 2 0 2 By region India 2,265 791 3,056 UK 8 3 11 US 139 44 183 Others 40 7 47 By age < 30 1,638 681 2,319 30 50 792 157 949 > 50 22 7 29 TOTAL 3,297 60 2013-14 No. of employees entitled to No. of No. of No. of Return Retention parental leave employees employees employees to work rate that took who returned who rate parental to work after returned leave leave ended to work after leave ended and were still employed after 12 months Maternity leave All full time women employee 255 255 208 100% 82% MindTree Minds who become father with a child birth or in cases where his wife undergoes pre-mature termination of pregnancy are Paternity leave entitled for the paternity leave 604 604 523 100% 87% As on 31 mar 2014: ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men India UK US Others (in USD) Employee category Female vs male ratio Female vs male ratio Female vs male ratio Female vs male ratio Basic salary Associates 0.95 0.98 1.01 1.12 Middle 0.84 1.00 1.01 1.00 management Senior management 0.93 1.15 1.18 1.15 Top 0.97 management Remuneration Associates 0.95 1.0 0.98 1.15 Middle 0.84 0.9 0.96 1.01 management Senior management 0.93 1.1 1.14 1.20 Top 1.03 management 61 Shadowing a valuable practice Our way of inculcating them and their work, not to ﬁnd faults but to appreciate the challenges and the hard work involved human sensitivity and to understand their realities in other words, to Integrating human sensitivity in a young professional get into their shoes for a day and live their life. and service attitude in aspiring leaders is not a matter of teaching but learning. It can neither be mandated 3000 of our campus minds have shadowed our nor inserted into the code of conduct. Apart from support staﬀ so far since last two years across our setting examples at senior level conduct, we resort to three locations. a ‘shadowing’ practice for this purpose. Touched and transformed by the experience, our On the ‘Shadowing Day’, our Campus youngsters have gone ahead to write blogs on their Mindtree Minds ‘shadow’ our support staﬀ experience in our community portal Konnect. It is our security guards, cleaners, drivers, coﬀee evident that the experience has taught them what no boys and others. They actually follow them amount of teaching or preaching could possibly do. throughout this day, spend time with them observing This is what they say after a day of shadowing: “That day I found how the system works; and “Men like Thirumaya (a support staﬀ member) how, in the system each and every individual is don’t need anything from us, they just need important and every job has its own importance. respect which they deserve. A smile and a ‘thank Because only software engineers can’t build an you’ is enough to make them feel and realize organization. This has made a major impact on that they are important.” my personality. Now I smile whenever I see a Chandan security guard or any of the associates.” Murali “It was like a crash course on learning about “I learnt that nobody’s job is too small or too being content in life, being loyal, being big, everybody works hard to do their job. optimistic, being humble, handling Respect one another all work hard equally.” responsibilities and lots more.” Mithali Monica 62 “Daily we see them like strangers. But now, in “Out of the conversations I had with a support one day, that stranger showed me her real staﬀ employee one phrase caught my mind Sir, splendor!” It’s ‘us’ because of ‘you’ and ‘you’ because of Sandeep ‘us’ . That indeed was an experience.” Sujay “My humble request to all Mindtree Minds: “The coﬀee boy was giving people their daily Please do not spit chewing gum on the ﬂoor or coﬀee or tea to help them work better, so he inside the toilet because I saw my friend was serving the people! And (this way), he was Manteswamy (cleaning staﬀ) lifting the chewing serving the Company to make better products. gum from the toilet. It was like hell.” That’s the big picture behind the work of the Chandrakantha coﬀee boy!” Ananya “I feel service should be from bottom of the heart and without much expectation. Smiling and wishing not only bind people together but also keep us happy round the clock.” Shreyas 63 Throughout the enterprise, our senior leaders encourage the practice and vouch for its outcome: “Shadowing experience is good for us to “Shadowing is a great opportunity for appreciate the people around us and bring campus minds to know that learning can out the human part of us. It is as good as happen anywhere. In fact, we can learn a lot appreciating what your mom does at from people who we usually see around home.” but hardly get to talk.” Venkatesh Balasubramanian, Rishin Chakraborty Associate Director, People Function Director Culture and Competence “Shadowing is one of the greatest opportunity a campus mind has to learn what hasn’t been taught at home or in the curriculum. The experience here will teach you the reality of life.” Abraham Moses General Manager, Head Mindtree Foundation 64 Women-speak: gender equality in Mindtree Sharmila Saha Vice President, importance of quality time with kids and family. The Digital Surveillance preciousness of the evening time with kids and family is something that is not only unquestioned here but in fact something respected. This is extremely crucial when you have very small children at home. It keeps women’s lives balanced and helps them to enjoy both worlds and be equally engaged in them. In gender equality as it is practiced today, it is possible to have ‘apparent equality’ going on, with ‘invisible inequality’ hidden within that. It is easier to recruit an impressive number of women and give them supportive policies and beneﬁts but it is diﬃcult to get rid of a certain conditioning from the mind. How far a policy can take a woman when minds “It is important to address invisible around still have old conditionings in them? There is inequality in gender.” no such latent barrier here at Mindtree. For example, when a promotion or a big opening comes up for IT industry is known for the impressive number of review, thoughts such as “This is a woman under women it employs. In leading companies today, the review here; can she take it up? Will she?” never come proportion in the total talent pool varies between one up here in the review panel. If the woman meets the quarter and one third. Most leading companies follow criteria, the opportunity is oﬀered to her. This is the policies and practices to make this possible and are real meaning of ‘equal opportunity’ which is free of looking at encouraging it further, I am sure. any mental conditioning. The woman may then take it or not take it; and not taking it may involve reasons or There are two levels at which gender equality is responsibilities of her being a woman, but that’s addressed: one, at the policy and practice level and beside the point here. another at the mindset level. I’ve been with Mindtree since 2000, just after its inception, that is; and I think I Gender sensitivity should recognize that women do know it well enough to say that this is a company not speak up as much as they should in their which addresses it at both levels, quite well. work-world. Being conscious of this fact, Mindtree has created forums and practices which create Apart from having supportive policies and options opportunity for women to speak up, discuss and such as ﬂexi time, work from home or special leave dialogue openly, freely. and the like, Mindtree culture understands the 65 This sort of ‘open space for women’s voice’ is very meritocracy and at the same time designed with the crucial in making gender equality actually ‘happen’ on existing social and cultural realities in mind. These the ground and not remain at the level of ‘policy’ or realities could change from country to country. ‘intent’. Prior to joining an IT company which Mindtree Also, supporting women at work in diﬀerent ways acquired in 2004, I worked in the IT sector in the US does not and should not mean ‘preferential for ten years, in a culture that takes gender equality treatment’. Mindtree culture is very much about for granted at the workplace, where it’s not much meritocracy. Once the supportive and empathetic talked about any more. The very idea of focusing and environment is created for you, that you are on an deliberating on ‘women-friendly policies and even ground to play and will be evaluated practices’ was hence a bit foreign to me. The day I accordingly, is very clear here. And this is exactly what joined Mindtree happened to be ‘Women’s Day’ and I women need: a level-playing ground and then a fair can’t say I was very comfortable with my having to evaluation! speak on the topic when I did not really appreciate the real need and signiﬁcance of it. Jyothi Bacche General Manager, But then as I settled in with my job and life here Data Analytics & Solutions in India, I began to see its signiﬁcance. My experience in India has made me revise my position on this subject now. Not having to focus so much on women-friendly policies is the ideal way to be. But when social realities are not ideal, we do need these policies in place. As a woman leader, I cannot ever escape noticing that my female team members have a greater share of housework when they head back home. While society must deﬁnitely lower the barriers and burdens for women, which is happening now for sure in some ways, the system of corporate context must reduce the stress points and increase the enablers for women. “The overall context should remain fair I think Mindtree gets it very right. When an to both women and men.” organization has so much regard for the individual, gender sensitivity becomes a part of this approach Mindtree’s approach to gender is very rooted in and not something needing an external learning. A lot reality. Any gender-focused set of systems and of women’s issues are heard here not because one policies should be within the overarching principle of 66 wants to be seen as women-friendly but just because very important to promote them, let me also add every woman is an individual with a particular need or that it’s equally important to have governance issue, some of which could be because of her role as a around women-friendly policies in way that they are woman. Beyond policy, beyond system and beyond not misused. Governance should get more nuanced norms, there could still be issues and needs for any and not be one-sided favoring women. In fact, women individualwomen in particular; and I’ve seen leaders should take a lead in ensuring this happens. instances of Mindtree lending an empathetic ear and I think it is more possible and easier for them to do so a supporting hand in such cases even when it is not so than it is for men. Women leaders who have come up easy to oﬀer it. the ladder have a responsibility in ensuring that the bigger context and the system with the women-friendly Having said that, India needs women-friendly policies plugged within, remains a fair one at an policies and practices at the workplace and it is overall level to both men and women. 67 68 Sustainability An Individual Responsibility 69 Change maker Meet Prakash Selvarajan, who plays dual roles in his life a Technical Manager at Mindtree and a social entrepreneur with his ﬁngers dipped in diﬀerent social issues. helped 150 such kids to continue their studies upwards from standard IX to college level. Promoting health & hygiene Prakash, a marathon runner, has also plans for promoting health and ﬁtness as an early habit in his hometown. Next year, The Rising Minds plans to launch a yearly campaign, getting people from all age-brackets to run for their health. His group of marathon runners, ten in number, has also launched into another social initiative of contributing to keeping Indian trains garbage-free. Trains have no dustbins except in AC coaches; and passengers throw garbage right out of the window. Cleaning the railway tracks allover India will be a Restoring dropouts mammoth task if it is to be taken up some day. For the last eight years out of the 11 years that he has Prakash and his team have petitioned to the been with Mindtree, Prakash has been running an government and through Change.org, received an NGO, The Rising Minds, in his hometown acknowledgement from the PMO, but the action Kumbakonam in Tamil Nadu, which he set up to look expected is uncertain still. after the education needs of deprived children from around the town. Break from oﬃce work all these The team has decided to do its bit anyway, in the years has meant looking for school drop-outs, orphans meanwhile, on an individual basis. Each team in need of education, talking to the headmasters of member, whenever he travels by train, carries an government-aided schools for enrollments, raising empty rice bag with him. When he boards the train, he funds, paying fees and putting the kids into schools. ties it in the area connecting two coaches and Dropouts are maximum after the VIII standard since requests the passengers to put in their garbage in that education is free until the VIII in these schools. bag and not throw it out of the window. Most of them oblige. At the station where he alights from the train, Financial assistance has come from India and abroad he unties the bag and carries it outside the train and through personal contacts. The Rising Minds has deposits it in the garbage spot of the station. 70 All ten of them have been doing this work every time plumbers are hard to come by is an urban reality, they travel. The size of impact may not be huge but especially in Bangalore. Even those who wanted to this is not about it. This is about doing one’s bit to repair their taps often are not able to do so. So, change behavior of at least a few people around, our technical manager decided to turn plumber in about being a part of the solution in a small way and the weekends. thereby making a diﬀerence at the individual level even while pushing for change at the systemic level. Prakash went about his locale, Raja Rajeshwari Nagar an area on the way to Global Village where Mindtree With Mindtree’s green community is situated in, speaking to residents and oﬀering free It is not surprising that apart from his individual social service to conserve water. His Sundays were spent in projects, Prakash has been an active champion of our people’s kitchens and bathrooms, green community. There is probably no green event in ﬁxing their faucets, in some cases, even replacing which he has not been involved. Out of numerous their old ones with the new ones they bought and voluntary social and environmental activities he has kept-waiting for him. Over eight months during the involved himself in, the most remarkable one is the year, he helped 350 homes to secure their taps, one he championed for water conservation. with the support of Mindtree. Water leakage through faulty taps is an invisible A social entrepreneur in his heart, Prakash source of water wastage, which many of us could be tries to balance his profession and passion either blind to or are helpless about. Prakash found today with the support of Mindtree as he out that while lack of awareness about ﬁxing the leaky waits to carve out his journey ahead. taps was an issue, it was not the only one. That I Got Garbage, a Story of Collaboration between Two Entrepreneur Groups Technologists and Waste Pickers I Got Garbage is a group of techno-entrepreneurs who came together under the supportive environment of Mindtree to support another group of entrepreneurs Bangalore’s waste pickers. Mindtree built a technology platform ‘I Got Garbage’ to collect waste directly from residential and business bring together businesses, government organizations sources. The approach increases the overall eﬃciency and social entrepreneurs to transform the loosely of recyclable recovery, creates a more stable, safer organized Indian rag picking community into organized work environment for thousands of people and helps waste management service providers. The platform cities manage waste better. presently partners with 8 social business partners and 5,200 waste pickers to provide a more eﬃcient and “I Got Garbage’ is a cloud based technology platform structured waste management system. to build innovative waste management business models where waste-pickers can take a leadership This unique, innovative waste management supply role. It provides a digital marketplace for citizens to chain improves the working conditions of rag pickers, procure waste-picker services, as well as an operations protecting them from exposure to hazardous management platform for waste-picker turned chemicals and infectious diseases. Now, instead of recycling managers to run their businesses eﬃciently. scavenging for recyclables on garbage heaps, they can (*As previously published in our annual report 2013-14) Digniﬁed livelihood for waste pickers and less landﬁlls for all. 72 *For current updates on the project, please see * Watch a short video on I Got Garbage model: www.igotgarbage.com https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qEmGsT76vo8 73 Activist-entrepreneur The center collects waste from 5000 houses every month, sorts it and diverts ten tons from the landﬁlls by recycling it. cycling event for them. Veena always felt somewhat troubled by the issues urban growth left behind in its trail the increase in high-rise buildings in her locality, the chirping of birds subduing and the sight of garbage piling up on streets. And this video told her exactly what to do about it. “It changed me permanently”, she says with a smile a certain gratefulness brings. For a professional, a big project starts with a small Veena Rajappa is General Manager, Delivery, at pilot. And a pilot in this case meant door to door Mindtree, Bangalore. She is a social entrepreneur in advocacy, collection of waste, storing it, sorting it and her own right, with a commendable accomplishment, getting recyclers to dispose it oﬀ. She could go door which we were happy to formally recognize by to door and also get recyclers in. She could also rope conferring on her, our Chairman’s Award for the Social in a few volunteers, she knew. But she needed a place Impact category for the year 2013-14. to store it all and work through it before the recyclers came in. It was too early to ask support for a place. So, Apart from holding the responsible position of a a part of her house had to be converted into a garbage delivery partner for a customer at Mindtree, Veena store. Looking at her doggedness and the support she runs a waste collection center in the city, complete had from her father, her mother eventually gave in with ﬁrst mile collection of solid waste, segregation, and agreed. disposal and recycling. The center collects waste from 5000 houses every month, sorts it and diverts ten In 2011, Veena launched her pilot. She went about tons from the landﬁlls by recycling it. educating people in the neighborhood, requesting and teaching them to segregate wet and dry waste, Professionals turned into entrepreneurs often talk of collecting their dry waste at intervals and storing it all an enormously inspirational trigger, a moment of truth in her house. Waste from 250 houses got sorted there that changed them forever. For Veena, it was a video and then got picked up from recyclers. on Vellore Srinivasan’s model of solid waste management. And the accidental brush with the video The success of the pilot brought in some support. happened when she was counseling a batch of 70 While the project was self-funded, volunteers came fresh entrants on the campus and was organizing a from engineering colleges around and from the 74 Mindtree campus. Now, ITC lent a hand too, by picking group of volunteers action-ready at my up some stuﬀ to the landﬁll. After much eﬀorts and a door”, Veena says, speaking of the kind of long wait, BBMP ﬁnally designated a place for her timely support she has from her company, work in that ward. the sustainability team and other colleagues. When BBMP gave her the key to the place, the At a time when the initiative needed several relief experienced by Veena was only short lived. entities such as the corporator, BBMP, recyclers and The neighborhood rose up in protest, saying, a waste others to recognize its signiﬁcance and oﬀer support, collection center would end up stinkingthe whole Mindtree played a key role by bringing them all under area. No amount of talk would convince them, and one roof. Waste collected from 5000 houses gets so, Veena invited them over to her center and sorted by BBMP staﬀ at that center. They are paid for showed them around. They went back surprised, by Veena, from the revenues from the recycled waste. their fears allayed. This self-funded, private-owned and volunteersupported venture is recognized as one of the BBMP Volunteers from engineering colleges have been great collection centers in the city. allies. A lot of them are ecologically cued in and they take to the job of waste collection and even segregation Now with her staﬀ experienced in operations and her with a willing and caring heart. Mindtree mobilizes father supervising operations during the week, Veena volunteers from its people too. “Whenever I’ve focuses on the venture on her weekends while her IT been in dire need for hands and feet, I’ve job keeps her busy during the week. simply asked Mindtree and I’ve found a 75 76 Economic Value We Create 77 View of the CFO “Business responsibility is a commitment unwavering despite ﬂuctuations in fortunes.” Sustainability initiatives also have a business case and Today, our ﬁnancial performance is strong, and this contribute to the bottom-line of an enterprise. gives us more resources to take our sustainability However, it is important to have patience and give a journey further. We are continuously identifying ways longer time frame to realize these beneﬁts. At to make our operations and processes go greener and Mindtree, we measure the Return on Investment (ROI) grow more responsible. Our customers recognize and from our all initiatives including our sustainability reward us for the immense value we create for them. programs, but we modify the assumptions on We aspire to be an inclusive company where there is timeframes suitably for sustainability related no tradeoﬀ between being a socially responsible programs. corporation and delivering attractive returns to our investors. While applying the typical ﬁnancial evaluation methods and measures to investments in sustainablility we For Mindtree, sustainability and CSR are need to keep in mind that these measures and not merely a percentage sharing of proﬁts methodologies have not evolved to accurately capture but a way to give back to society. Here, the intangible beneﬁts from such programs. So, what sustainability and CSR are driven by our do we do in such cases? At Mindtree, we do not forego our responsibility intentions because the metrics are values and not by regulatory requirements. not ready. We go ahead based on our convictions and work in parallel to deﬁne the metrics appropriately. While the regulatory mandate on a CSR spending is a positive development in a large and diverse country While measuring results is part of our continuous like India, enterprises such as ours have been improvement eﬀorts on all fronts, including historically ahead of regulation, and the mandate sustainability, it is our conviction that drives does not make a real diﬀerence or pose a challenge. our commitment. We will continue to act as a socially responsible corporation always. Our sustainability and Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) commitments are not subject to the variations in Rostow Ravanan, CFO our ﬁnancial performance either. A few years ago, we maintained our CSR and sustainability projects even when we went through rough weather on the business front. 78 Global economic performance Sustainability perspective on economic performance Contrary to norms of ﬁnancial reporting, the we create was one of the visions of this enterprise, sustainability perspective and sustainability reporting articulated and endorsed by our founders way norms on economic performance of a company look back in 1999. at the economic contribution of a company not only from the point of view of its proﬁt-performance The ESOPS we oﬀer, the good dividend ratios we relevant to investors and shareholders, but more maintain, the strong Return On Capital Employed importantly, from a multi-stakeholder point of view (ROCE) we achieve, the employee beneﬁts we oﬀer, which considers a combination of the income it the extent of inclusion of contractual workers in generates for people in its operational sphere, the our beneﬁt schemes, the grants we oﬀer through value it distributes through its operating cost, taxes the Mindtree Foundation, the investments we make it oﬀers to the government’s coﬀers, the donations to generate sustainable livelihoods, the projects we it makes for various causes, its social contributions invest in the social and environmental space and so and so on. on are all parts of the same ideology of creating economic value and distributing it with a sense Hence, we share with you here, our consistent global of purpose and conviction. performance and growth on our economic value-add before we present to you the details of our ﬁnancial As shown by the data here on the economic value-add, performance. along with our growth in revenues, we have made signiﬁcant increases, over the years, in the economic We are an enterprise which envisioned not only value distributed to a vast set of our multiple wealth creation but also wealth distribution as a stakeholders. And we would continue to do so as we signiﬁcant objective right at the time of the brace ourselves for our ambitious growth aspirations conceptualization of the entity. Sharing our wealth in years to come. Economic value added Direct economic value generated (A) (Rs. in crore) 2013-14 2012-13 2011-12 2010-11 Revenue (through core 3,031.60 2,361.82 1,915.24 1,508.97 business segments) Other income 49.59 35.03 38.60 24.20 (through other sources) TOTAL 3,081.18 2,396.85 1,953.83 1,533.17 79 Economic value distributed (B) Operating cost 653.08 493.82 406.05 354.51 Personnel expenses 1,767.24 1,413.82 1,215.93 976.66 (wages+benefits) Interest charges 0.45 1.04 0.52 0.39 Taxes & royalties (given to various govt. wherever 127.47 84.73 43.01 28.87 business units are located) taxes expenses Taxes & royalties (given to various govt. wherever 17.99 8.06 2.62 1.64 business units are located) dividend tax paid Dividends (payments to 104.15 49.70 16.18 10.02 capital providers) Donations (political parties / politicians) Community development / CSR investments paid to 1.25 1.78 0.25 Mindtree Foundation TOTAL 2,671.64 2,052.95 1,684.57 1,372.10 Economic 409.55 343.90 269.27 161.07 value added (A-B) Global ﬁnancial performance 2013-14 Crossed the half billion 15.1% year-on-year dollar mark in revenues growth in dollar ($501.5 million) revenues Crossed the 100 million Strong ROCE: dollar mark in operating net margins growth proﬁts ($101 million) higher than revenue growth Crossed the Reached billion dollar Rs. 100 mark on EPS on market capitalization 80 Revenue distribution by industry FY 13 FY 14 30.5% 27.9% 23.0% 22.4% 21.5% 19.9% 20.0% 19.0% 8.2% 7.5% Manufacturing, BFSI Travel & Others Hi-tech CPG & retall transportation Revenue distribution by service oﬀering 25.4% 25.2% 22.9% 21.7% 17.6% 17.2% 16.8% 14.4% 12.7% 10.6% 3.6% 3.1% 3.2% 3.2% 1.4% 1.0% Development Engineering Maintenance Consulting Package IP Led Independent Infrastructure implementation revenue testing management and tech Revenue distribution by geography Revenue distribution by mix 58% 62.4% 55% 58.3% 41.7% 37.6% 29% 28% 9% 9% 6% 5% US Europe India Rest of world Onsite Offshore 81 Our revenues in the year 2013-14, INR 30316 million, Adding conﬁdence to our next year’s performance are are a sign of 28.36% growth over last years. This was the ﬁndings of our customer experience survey. 83% brought about by serving our 207 customers. We have of our customers participated in the study and rated deal-sizes of over USD 1 million with 73 of them and us better than last two years across key parameters over USD 5 million with 24 of them. such as satisfaction, loyalty and advocacy. Our EBIT margins remained stable at 20.1%, last year While our strengths and capabilities in governance, being 20.6%. workplace sustainability, leadership, innovation and so on are recognized and have received awards at PAT increased by 32.89% to INR 4508 million. national and global platforms, we have further In line with our philosophy of distributing wealth, we strengthened collaboration between our verticals and declared interim, ﬁnal and special dividends this year, service lines. Signiﬁcantly strengthening the service enabled by strong performance across ﬁnancial team, deploying of a new CRM system and bringing a parameters. dedicated focus on account planning are some of the ways in which we have further enhanced our The in-depth details of our ﬁnancial performance on strengths in this domain. various parameters are made available in our audited People being our key strength, we continue to oﬀer annual report 2013-14. (Link to our annual report: our best possible workplace and work environment to http://www.mindtree.com/downloads/mindtree-annua our people and design our systems and programs for l-report-2013-2014.pdf) excellence and high performance as explained in detail in Section 3 of this report. Strengths & opportunities The strength of our consistent ﬁnancial performance Our expert Mindtree Minds enable our customers stems from the four pillars of our strategy. Our to achieve competitive advantage through next strategy pillars are: growth, non-linear revenue generation global delivery models, agile models, customer centricity and operational methodologies and expert frameworks. The ability excellence. of our people to devise innovative solutions and to execute them derives from the strong emphasis we Our customer-focused ‘account mining’ approach has place on enhancing their domain expertise and given us an impressive result: our top ten customers technical excellence. The global environment is ﬁlled (by revenue) who had grown by 17% last year, have with opportunities. Prospect of a positive recovery in grown by 19% this year, the average growth across all growth across the world is a common opportunity for our customers being 15%. Next year, you would see all: expected growth of 3.6% in 2014 and 3.9% in us extending the account mining approach to 2015, with improved performance across US and customers beyond the top brackets. Europe, is a suﬃcient reason for global optimism for a better year. 82 Emerging economies, especially China and India, are Outlook certainly expected to have better growth rates and Being recognized and winning accolades for our also stand to beneﬁt from improved demand for IT service capabilities, domain expertise, technical services from US, UK and rest of Europe. excellence and governance standards (which we have shared with you in this report), we are happy Globally, IT services growth, 4.5% in 2013-14, is likely to see our internal conﬁdence being matched by to continue strong across 2014 and 2015. Prospects such external validations. They only inspire us to of global IT-BPO outsourcing services growing further further improve our growth journey as we aim at is a positive for Indian IT industry. As IT services raising the bar towards 2020. 2014-15 will see us industry is being further strengthened by emerging growing stronger on our performance with respect technologies, IT companies plunging early into these to economic value added. We are prepared to address new areas are bound to beneﬁt from the leverage. the challenges to be posed for the industry and we have aligned all our management systems, Mindtree has geared itself up to address challenges frameworks and technological as well as people in the external environment and make use of the capabilities to continue to create positive value on positive opportunities at diﬀerent levels in the triple bottom lines. year to come. In the next year, we look forward to beating the industry average growth rate and our past growth rate as well. Contribution to benefit plan (Rs. In crore) 2013-14 2012-13 2011-12 2010-11 Contributions to provident 140.47 110.73 93.25 76.89 and other funds Staff welfare expenses TOTAL 140.47 110.73 93.25 76.89 Financial assistance received (Rs. In crore) 2013-14 2012-13 2011-12 2010-11 IT exemption 211.81 166.14 147.80 118.12 Land provided at subsidised rate Incentives Custom, excise duties waived# 26.49 4.64 3.95 7.53 Others TOTAL 238.30 170.78 151.75 125.64 83 Caring for the Planet 85 View point environmental responsibility “Environmental initiatives are an integral part of our core business strategy.” Ecological sustainability is very much a part of our core monitoring and robustness of our data and reporting business strategy and is seen as a way we conduct our through analytics and at getting Mindtree facilities business. While CSR is approached non-strategically BEE energy star rating certiﬁed. here, ecological sustainability has a business consideration to it apart from the responsibility In the medium term, adopting solar energy by installing imperative. Ecological initiatives do create positive solar panels in all Mindtree facility roof tops would be impacts for the bottom-line of the company and also one of the priority areas. The target is to generate not for the brand. less than 500kWp in the year 2015-16. For example, our initiative to adopt clean energy In the long term – a three year horizon, we would through roof top solar panels in our facilities works want the proportion of clean energy (solar, wind, out to be more cost eﬀective than the conventional micro hydro) in the overall consumption to be in grid power a classic case of combining business excess of 20%. sense with social conscience. Mindtree believes sustainability initiatives The common bus system which we implemented in will create high impact outcomes when it our west campus at Bangalore resulted in more than is adopted by every single individual in the 40% reduction of vehicle ﬂeet, reducing not only enterprise. Individual responsibility being carbon emissions but also the operating cost by over the core of our sustainability vision, we 35%. In other words, our approach is to integrate our would be focusing on strengthening unwavering commitment to sustainability with our core business operations and implement it as a awareness among our internal stakeholders ‘must-do thing’ rather than as a ‘nice-to-do thing’. in the organization and make them part of our broader initiatives on ecological Our strategic priorities in the immediate future sustainability and achieve deeper revolve around achieving and going beyond our engagements. ecological goals and targets set on various aspects such as emissions, water, waste and energy. Reducing Mindtree is keen on creating the environment for our per capita water consumption, especially reducing individual ecological responsibility to ﬂourish in our dependence on fresh water for water based many ways. Inspiring our people are a set of chillers is a priority. Going forward, we would be ecological champions within the organisationlooking at further consolidating our energy individuals who have taken their responsibility 86 visions to new levels through intrapreneurship or Going forward, Mindtree would continue to address its entrepreneurship in areas such as waste collection, ecological responsibility at diﬀerent levels-launching waste processing, technological enablement of new organizational initiatives, creating an environment environmental issues and the like. We have featured for deepening people engagement with ecological their stories in this report. responsibility and further extending the sustainability intent to external stakeholders to collaborate with them We would also be collaborating with external in diﬀerent ways to conserve ecological resources. stakeholders and peer groups as well, to propagate and inﬂuence sustainability ideas and outcomes. Our Padmanabhan Kannan General Manager, exploratory eﬀorts at initiating a carpool across Administration & Facilities companies in the IT Park at Bangalore are a part of such endeavor. Environmental performance and plans Our approach Embedding energy eﬃciency mechanisms and We are an organization which recognizes the technologies across our operations and processes is responsibility for resource conservation and footprint an essential part of our green journey. We believe in reduction not only at the organizational level but also helping our supply chain partners to inculcate at the individual level. It is a responsibility we owe to sustainable practices and processes in their the planet, regardless of whether it is mandatory or operations too. Going forward, we are stepping up our not in the country. We believe this task can never be eﬀorts in inﬂuencing this task in a more tangible way. complete without inspiring and involving individuals in a focused way. As a result, our environmental Since we believe in and abide by the precautionary performance today is a seamless combination of approach to climate change risks, we think it organizational level initiatives and individual-driven appropriate and also necessary to integrate the risks projects and activities. within our enterprise-level risk framework. Climate change and sustainability are a part of our ERM Ecological sustainability is one of three pillars of our framework and the issues within these aspects go Sustainability framework. Some of the green through all the critical stages of scrutiny and initiatives under this area accrue savings and add to intervention that business risks go through. This the bottom line, and therefore make business sense. helps us maintain a strategic focus on environmental There are also green initiatives which may not result aspects as well as an emphasis on needed in considerable savings for the organization but make interventions. a positive impact on the environment. Our approach is to be open to such eﬀorts as well. In addition, there Diﬀerent functional experts manage diﬀerent are some ideas which may not strictly pass the ROI sustainability and climate change related risks scanner in the short-term and challenge our choice. depending on how they are categorized. For example, Mindtree approach in these cases is to study the ideas energy eﬃciency is categorized under operational further and commit to them too, if they make holistic risks, pollution control under compliance risks and sense in the long-term. talent management under strategic risks. Our Environment Management Systems (EMS) enables Climate change is not only recognized as a risk but is an integrated approach to our intent. All our oﬃces also something we regard as a material issue are ISO 14001 certiﬁed. We started our green journey signiﬁcant to the sustainability of our business in the consciously in 2009 which is now led by our Green long run. We have hence taken up these issues as Council (MGC). MGC aligns our organizational short term and long term goals to embed the climate objectives with green objectives and promotes change strategy into our processes and systems and initiatives of greater environmental responsibility have committed to reduce GHG footprint (Scope1 + 2 both at the organizational and at the individual levels. + 3) per capita year on year. You will see the details of 88 the environmental performance of our India operations Inﬂuencing individuals and the goals we have set for ourselves in the pages in the value chain to follow. Our ecological sustainability initiatives are not only triggered by our people but are owned by them too. Role of the individual And we now learn that our people have begun to Interestingly, some of our eco-eﬃciency initiatives inﬂuence and inspire our channel partners as well, and ideas have come from our people from our with ideas around resource conservation. This, we green community volunteers, in particular. Triggered must acknowledge, has happened naturally, as a by a few individuals the green community and result of the conviction of our people rather than supported by a larger set of people backing them, we as a deliberately thought-out strategy for inﬂuencing have introduced several new initiatives, projects and our partners. changes in our activities, operations and processes. A case in point is our builders in Chennai and Our green community and sustainability teams Hyderabad who have got inspired by our work and by evangelize ecological sustainability within the our people to take active steps in green practices. We organization. Events such as the Earth Day and are happy to learn that our builders at Chennai, M/S Environment Day see proliﬁc activity around various TRIL, with our inputs on food composting machinery planetary themes and the organization-wide activities and process, have already started a food composting help deepen people’s engagement with environmental project on their site by ordering the machinery. responsibility further. Evangelizing responsibility at the individual level A few of our Mindtree Minds have voluntarily taken does result in multiple eﬀects, we have learnt, and up environment-related projects and are driving them this only strengthens our conviction in our approach. ahead with all the commitment and leadership needed. This report features a few projects such as: Green community Active and imaginative, our communities are the Composting food waste on the campus, thus informal hubs for ideas and actions around diﬀerent reducing the landﬁll loads. themes. Green community is an important one among Introducing and implementing a bus-pool system them, for its impact both within and outside the for our people as well as for people of other organization. organizations, thus reducing the carbon footprint for Global Village, Bangalore as a whole. 2013-14 saw the green community in a door-to-door campaign at Raja Rajeswari Nagar, Bangalore on waste Leveraging technology to eﬀect an integrated waste management awareness, resulting in inﬂuencing 5000 management system for environmental impact homes to segregate their waste. They send the dry combined with waste pickers’ well-being. waste to collection centers where waste pickers sort it (I Got Garbage). 89 all further and earn their living while the recyclers Awareness on sustainability practices such as reﬁll pick up inputs for their processes. markers, waterless urinals, gifting trees, checking one’s footprint The community also played an important part in Clean up activities in parks the campus-wide awareness campaign on water Tree planting activities conservation program. This community also campaigned for carpooling and strengthened the At the organisational level portal needed to facilitate the plan. Ecological sustainability is one of the three pillars of our sustainability framework. The four aspects within A sample of activities undertaken to ecological sustainability, for us, are: promote individual responsibility 1. Energy eﬃciency for the planet 2. Water management 3. GHG emission reduction Launch of individual social responsibility module 4. Waste management (One Good Deed) Green champion campaign for sharing of how individuals saved the earth Our footprint-reducing emissions During 2013-14 our focus on the intensity target saw Celebrating World Water Day, Earth Day, Forest Day us reducing GHG emissions (Scope 1 + 2 + 3) per with relevant activities capita by 3%. Our commitments to reducing our Employee idea generation campaigns and contests emissions and to CDP reporting keep us constantly on green practices monitoring our operations and processes to achieve Workshop on organic gardening and the practice of the goals we set for our performance. farming at Bangalore west campus by two batches with 80 volunteers Talks by experts on diﬀerent topics such as Gross Scope 1 emissions CO2e: 752.48 bio-diversity, sustainable living and waste Gross Scope 2 emissions CO2e: 24369.64 management Screening of environmental movies Gross Scope 3 emissions CO2e: 15373.02 Awareness booth/sessions by Green Peace India in metric tons GHG emissions 60% 43% 45% 38% We have taken several steps to reduce Scope 3 emissions through ideas such as car pools, cab 12% 2012-13 route optimization, common bus systems and 2% 2013-14 Scope1 Scope2 Scope3 video conferencing. 24370 Co2 emissions 16082 9546 9578 6932 5668 4179 563 48 51 287 130 8 8 97 83 33 44 Fuel usage/ Fuel usage Fugitive Owned Electricity/ Employee Business Waste Freight energy (LPG) emissions vehicles energy commute travel generated (HFC, PFC) purchased (diesel) In tons in 2012-13 In tons in 2013-14 Air emissions Ozone depleting substances 1.15 387 0.90 290 0.47 16 21 0.04 0.03 0.01 CFC equivalent R22 (refrigerant) NOX SOX SPM In tons in 2012-13 In tons in 2013-14 In kgs in 2012-13 In kgs in 2013-14 Reduction in business travel has been and carbon footprint. Our learning is that much considerable, thanks to multiple interventions. Video footprint due to travel can be reduced with an conferencing equipment installed in our oﬃces in the eﬀective travel policy, dedicated focus on cost US, Bangalore, Pune and Chennai enables us to implications and investing in video conferencing. It is achieve the reductions in travel. Our travel policy is a combination of these elements that works to bring anchored on the principle of ‘lowest logical fare’, down travel lengths, costs and footprint at the same addressing multiple factors such as cost, convenience time. Maintaining a strategic focus on this imperative 91 has enabled us to achieve all of this without customer and the convenience of the traveler. compromising on the quality of our work for our Business travel 50909984 48116873 4214960 3170077 307664 307446 481290 862177 105468 265380 174287 2732 266386 Air-short haul Air-long haul Air-domestic Client cabs Road (bus) Road (taxi) Rail 2012-13 (km) 2013-14 (km) Enhancing energy eﬃciency power generation by diesel generators. As we plan to Our energy consumption per capita is 200kWh per move into renewable energy, several energy eﬃciency month. Main sources are the grid power and captive initiatives within the current realities are in place. Energy consumption direct & indirect 96171 76681 46960 6327 741 793 Direct energy Direct energy Indirect energy diesel LPG purchased electricity GJ in 2012-13 GJ in 2013-14 Mindtree has taken up a voluntary commitment to upcoming Mindtree campus in Bhubaneswar and construct all its new facilities in an environment recently constructed Phase-5 in Bangalore are done friendly way targeting all to achieve LEED using environmental friendly practices aiming at certiﬁcation. As a part of this commitment, the energy eﬃciency. This would help in bringing down 92 our Scope 2 emissions. Our Bhubaneswar facility month and this implies rainwater harvesting, recycling would be platinum rated. Our interiors in Hyderabad and re-use of water. All three routes to reduction are location and Phase-5 facility in Bangalore are also being pursued. LEED-Gold standard. Water withdrawal by source We have implemented solar water heating panels at 126114 our corporate oﬃce to cater to hot water supply in 87463 our facilities. 18061 33363 28061 14588 Low carbon energy installations Groundwater Municipal water Purchased from Initiatives undertaken in 2013-14 such as the supplies or other private suppliers water utilities implementation of chiller line from Phase-2 location to Phase-1 location, lighting saver panel at MTE, Pune m3 in 2012-13 m3 in 2013-14 and Chennai, free cooling system at MTE and Phase-5, VAV installation at TRIL, in facilities motion sensors for We have cut down considerably on fresh water usage lighting lighting energy saver-sun control ﬁlm for with the help of waterless urinals, sensor-equipped façade glass doors at Chennai are all our investments faucets and ﬂow restrictors. towards energy savings. 100% of the outlet water from Mindtree facilities is Estimated annual CO2e savings: 433171 metric tons treated using Sewage Treatment Plants (STPs) at the premises (Bangalore Whiteﬁeld and Pune campus) Systems & standards and Common Eﬄuent Treatment Plants (CETPs) at the All our oﬃces are ISO 14001 certiﬁed. A signiﬁcant builders’ premises (other locations). proportion of our procurement spend is on construction of new facilities and campuses. All our Waste management campuses are designed in conformance with the Waste generated in operations: 82.80 metric ton CO2. LEED-Gold standards and procurement norms of the Our approach to waste management is focused at LEED standard require that we procure construction reducing burden on the landﬁlls, increasing recycling materials and equipment that meet the required and re-use of waste. Reducing waste-related environmental norms and standards in energy and emissions would be a result of all these routes. water eﬃciency, waste management and impact on biodiversity. Water management Our water strategy aims at reduction in our fresh water consumption which is at 1.18 kL per capita per 93 Quantity of waste by category 103 84 76 57 51 55 23 17 9 2 5 7 0 0 E-waste Bio medical Hazardous Inorganic Organic Packaging Other waste waste waste waste waste waste In tons in 2012-13 In tons in 2013-14 Inorganic waste disposed Organic waste disposed 67 85 82 16 18 3 4 3 0.41 0.42 2 2 0.2 0 0.04 0 0 2 Magazine Paper Tissue paper Newspaper Other office Garden Food waste STP sludge Wood waste waste stationery waste waste In tons in 2012-13 In tons in 2013-14 In tons in 2012-13 In tons in 2013-14 Hazardous waste disposed 50.81 11.16 5.08 2.18 2.68 1.18 0.24 0.17 0.02 0.17 0.0 10.09 0.07 0.18 0.19 0.22 E-waste CFL’s disposed Tubelights Used oil Oil soaked DG filters Batteries Ink cartridges disposed disposed cotton waste disposed disposed In tons in 2012-13 In tons in 2013-14 94 Packaging waste disposed Waste by disposal method 205 9.26 7.03 168 0 0 0 0.198 Cardboard Styrofoam Thermocol 92 In tons 2012-13 In tons 2013-14 Waste segregation and dry waste recycling 23 measures are active within all our campuses. 0 0 90% of our solid waste is recycled against Recycle Incineration Landfill our target of 85%. In tons in 2012-13 In tons in 2013-14 Food waste can be a great saving on landﬁll impacts Biodiversity if processed in-house. It also generates manure for Mindtree operations do not directly aﬀect forest areas our landscaping. We have managed to initiate and or biodiverse areas or protected zones. While it does replicate food composting across some of our not erode biodiversity, there is still room left for locations. This has been possible with the help of considering how it can add value through creation of some of our people with complete commitment to biodiversity. One way to do this is to shift from the cause. We as an organization have provided the water-intensive practices such as greening of necessary support and resources but it is these premises through landscaping to creating mini, urban individuals, our employee volunteers, who have forests in the premises. Mindtree would want to go studied the processes and executed the projects this way in the future and has plans in place in this against all odds. We currently do food composting direction. Mini forests on the campus are already at our Bangalore West campus and Pune locations, coming up with the expert help of naturalists who are starting one soon at our Bangalore East campus and working with us on this project. are looking at replicating in other locations. We are also planning an artiﬁcial pond at the foothills Overall expenditure in 2013-14 on near the Mindtree site at Bhubaneshwar, a pond environmental initiatives has been which stores and recharges the earth, raising the INR 11,607,795 water table in the region around. It would meet the water needs for the Mindtree site. 95 Mindtree is an enterprise committed to generates huge amounts of extra soil. We decided inclusiveness and diversity. It gives us to put it to good use by making our own bricks. immense sense of satisfaction and We learnt brick-making, bought a brick-making completeness to extend this ideology from machinery from Coimbatore, made bricks right on the location site and erected our walls. We did not buy a people to the planet by including a diversity single brick for the walls of our 2.5 lakh sq. ft building. of ﬂora and fauna to help conserve, preserve and enrich it. The soil of the earth was re-used and we saved on brick procurement costs. We believe sustainability Building a new location? practices often have multiple beneﬁts hidden in them. Make your own bricks! It takes a caring heart and a spirit of entrepreneurship When our new campus was to come up in to bring them out. Bhubaneswar, we had to start with leveling the ground at the project site. The process of soil evening Highlights of 2013-14 Aspect 2012-13 baseline 2013-14 target 2013-14 actual performance Energy 201 (kWh/employee/month) 191 (kWh/employee/month) 200.04 (kWh/employee/month) 3.38 tons CO2e/employee/annum 3.22 tons CO2e/employee/annum 3.39 tons CO2e/employee/annum GHG emissions Water 1.05 kl/employee/month 1 kl/employee/month 1.28 kl/employee/month Waste 65% (recycled) 72% (recycled) 89.68% (recycled) Category Target for 2014-15 Remarks Energy 194 kWh/employee/month 3% reduction from 2013-14 GHG emissions 3.32 tons CO2e/employee/annum 2% reduction from 2013-14 Water 1.22 kl/employee/month 5% reduction from 2013-14 Waste 92.37% (recycled) 3% increase from 2013-14 96 Reducing employee carbon footprint for the IT park in Bangalore Common bus system an innovative public-private initiative by Mindtree One of our campuses in Bangalore is situated in cause of footprint reduction for the whole of Global Global Village, an IT hub on Mysore Road away from Village. Pioneered by Mindtree Minds at Global the city, which draws employees from all over long Village, this sustainable model can be replicated distances. On one hand, employee carbon footprint across locations. can be very high through private transport and on the other, company investment can be high too, if we But the entrepreneurial Mindtree Minds would not sit were to have company-owned buses running across back satisﬁed with this accomplishment. Vijay Francis, the city. Senior Manager, Administration, in charge of the project, says, “This is not enough. Looking at the issue This, we realized, is the reality for not only our of private car transport is essential. We do have organization, but for every other IT company within employee car pools, thanks to the eﬀorts of our green this location. How do we solve the issue of the footprint community portals. Again, this is not enough. We want with a win-win for everyone involved? We came up to try a model similar to common bus system, using with an innovative solution: the plan involves hiring private taxis. Taxi pools running to and fro, servicing BMTC (Bangalore Metropolitan Transport Corporation) not just our Company but others too in Global Village buses by paying BMTC a license fee and transporting is our next project. Mindtree will take a leader’s our Mindtree Minds to and fro. We also extended the position in making this happen. This needs a lot of system to other companies in Global Village. preparatory work, partnering with taxi service providers and portals to plan and manage logistics The model allows sharing the costs with other and coordination. We will share with you the progress companies, oﬀers full capacity utilization of the buses, on this plan by next year.” reduced transport cost to employees of all these organizations and a reduced carbon footprint not only for Mindtree Minds but for Global Village as a whole. We are now in talks to include the rest of the companies in Global Village as you read this and once they enroll into the system, Global Village should have a much lesser employee carbon footprint. This initiative is encouraged and supported by Mindtree and run by individuals committed to the 97 From waste to wealth Composting food waste on campus an intrapreneural initiative by Vanitha A, Manager Administration at Bangalore Mindtree An average of 4000 Mindtree Minds choose from a Vanitha started the process of manual composting on wide range of cuisine and eat at our Global Village the campus with the food waste from one block. One campus every day, sitting in our breezy lady from house-keeping staﬀ joined her in handling terrace-canteens, netted on the sides to keep away the raw material, putting it in, mixing it and so on. Not the pigeons. As our employee numbers grew over the an appealing job to see, let alone participate in! The years, so did the amount of food wasted in the plates. two of them continued with it, nevertheless. The Our campaigns against food wasting was eﬀective in waste stood its time for a few weeks and then, when reducing the waste but not in removing it. Our people she held the ﬁltered-ﬁne compost in her palms one learnt to segregate waste eﬀectively so that dry waste day, ‘it felt precious like diamonds”, Vanitha says, could reach the right processors. Wet waste was still a recalling the moment. challenge. With no wet waste processors around, how to prevent it from burdening the already overﬂowing Then the project moved on to get more support, landﬁlls of Bangalore? participation and incentives. Other buildings came into the project too. The size of the project pushed The solution, the initiative, the drive and the the model to move from manual method to machinery. execution emerged from one individual in the year 2010. Vanitha was taken up by the idea of converting Now an average of 58,782 kgs food waste food waste into manure. Wanting to see how it works, collected every month on the campus she initiated an in-home demo by Daily Dump, a local produces compost which feeds the campus organization well-known in Bangalore for its work garden and keeps it thriving. The wealth of in composting. the earth goes back into it without being discarded as waste. Poonam Bir Kasturi, an industrial engineer better known as Compostwali for her impactful work on Inspired by this project, our Pune location has composting, provided the needed training, conﬁdence initiated a machinery-based composting on site. Our and most importantly, inspiration. “The way she facilities in Bangalore East Campus too have begun an tenderly handled the mixed wet waste with her initiative of composting. Interestingly, some of our delicate, gloved hands taught me a lot about people have started home projects in composting. The respecting the whole process”, says Vanitha, looking success of this project and the enthusiasm and pride back at her moment of inspiration. of our people about this project has inﬂuenced our 98 partners too: our builders at Hyderabad are on their And the ripple eﬀects of the responsible project way to on-site composting now. continue. 99 100 Contributing to the Society 101 Viewpoint of the Head of Mindtree Foundation “Mindtree is an organization with its heart in the right place.” Not only the Mindtree Foundation but people from combination of projects and grants under our the entire Mindtree enterprise bear testimony to this portfolio and will continue to do so in the future. fact. CSR here is based on a pure giving back ideology independent of regulatory mandate or market We have a near equal number of CSR projects and considerations. Responsibility is the very DNA of this grants as of now and in the next couple of years enterprise. would be focusing on converting some of our grants into projects. This is going to be a co-learning My ﬁfteen years of time with Mindtree have seen the experience with our much trusted NGO partners as whole enterprise responding to several issues of the they look forward to building new capacities to society and the planet with deep care and constant projectivize CSR and thus further professionalize the action, often ahead of regulation. The founders have mandate for social change. placed here a caring and inclusive legacy which anchors all our CSR initiatives. Our CSR charter helps We are proud to enjoy the involvement of our people us focus our intent for social good on a few signiﬁcant at Mindtree across all levels, as we continuously areas of action. We have drawn a CSR Policy to guide attempt to create positive impacts in the society as our endeavor in creating social change and we are an enterprise, as people and as individuals. happy to share it with you. Abraham Moses General Manager, We welcome the new Companies Act which Head Mindtree Foundation recommends a certain percentage sharing of proﬁts for CSR. The regulation is a positive step in encouraging a large number of organizations to augment their CSR eﬀorts. Our history of ‘giving back’ precedes regulation and it has never been tied to or limited by the circumstances of our proﬁts. It has been determined by our assessment of the intensity of the needs in a few deﬁned areas and the likelihood of the impact of our intervention. Hence we have always encouraged a 102 Our approach to CSR We are supported by and associated with a set of committed and passionate NGOs who are our partners in creating the change we want to in the society. Mindtree Foundation was set up in 2007, based on food, shelter & clothing, disaster relief, disability and the purpose of giving back which would render medical support. meaning to the proﬁts we made. But our purpose certainly went beyond proﬁts; hence, the causes the We identify several need-gaps in these areas and Mindtree Foundation has embraced have never had to provide a range of interventions that build internal suﬀer discontinuities in our support even when the capacities in these identiﬁed areas capacities which enterprise had to suﬀer ﬁnancially at some will help the beneﬁciaries to empower and self-sustain trying times. themselves over a committed period of time. We look for opportunities to support initiatives that are bound This was possible only because the CSR vision of to create multiple impacts across socio-economic Mindtree has never believed in approaching CSR with realities of the society and we step forward to support a strategic rationale or design. Nor has its CSR action them irrespective of how measurable the outcomes been mass in its reach or massive in its scale. It has are at the time of our commitment. rather been like planting a variety of seeds on a few deprived patches of land and tending to the sprouts We especially believe in linking our employee and saplings with constant care and support. volunteering initiatives with our CSR endeavors for it Depth of impact has been our central and is important that our organizational responsibility non-negotiable criterion. initiatives and individual conviction of our people are well integrated. We are also keen to see our social We recognize the fact that there is no end to the responsibilities include learning and appreciation of causes we can commit to, since the universe of social social sensitivity. This, we see as the foundation of needs and issues is indeed a vast and an our culture. overwhelming one. The way we have approached and responded to this enormous challenge historically, We are supported by and associated with a set of has been one of an empathetic choice of a few issues committed and passionate NGOs who are our partners that tug at our hearts and committing deeply and in creating the change we want to in the society. Our constantly to them regardless of our fortunes or work on social issues has been ably supported and failures, accolades or criticism. enhanced in its value by our association with our NGO partners such as Spastic Society of Karnataka, The issues we see as deserving of our deepest Spastic Society of Tamil Nadu, Association for the commitment are: poverty, lack of access to education, Physically Disabled, KSCCW, AMBA and others. 103 Mindtree foundation charter To own, establish, or provide or fund for To provide relief of poverty by way of (directly or indirectly) medical care and assistance to food, shelter and clothing. medical care facilities, research centers, diagnostic centers, blood bank service centers, immunization centers, health centers, rehabilitation centers, clinics, polyclinics, laboratories and to apply or provide all types of medical or healthcare services or to To promote education to underprivileged provide aid to poor patients, and to or children with a special emphasis on people provide or fund for (directly or indirectly) the with disability. discovery and investigation of new medical management of diseases, prevention of illness, aﬄictions and research in the said ﬁeld and to acquire any or all rights, licenses or other protective devices relating to above, and to manufacture, market or grant license To provide relief of distress caused by to manufacture or market the product calamities of nature. discovered, developed or improved. 104 Spotting a seed Meet Ajay Kumar, Junior Engineer, Mindtree! CVs ﬁnd their ways through several ways to Mindtree. But Ajay was no novice to hard work. His Diploma Mindtree Minds bringing in some of them for prior to his degree came by working part time consideration is one of them. One such CV coming alongside. His SSLC (tenth grade) too came with much from a Mindtree Mind, went to Mindtree Foundation, hardship. He worked as a waiter at a hotel in the ﬁrst and then directly landed up at the Chairman’s evenings after school and as a helper in a catering desk. This was an unusual one. Jiben Joseph, the business during vacations. His mother was a single Mindtree Mind, had submitted the CV of his parent and barely able to meet the expenses of the apartment security guard for the post of an engineer! family and the school fees. The overworked but much And the Chairman asked the Culture & Competence determined boy secured 84% at the SSLC board exam (C&C) team to interview and assesses the boy. The and went on to do his Diploma and then Engineering, boy was indeed a security guard but that was on a with the support of a scholarship and part-time jobs. nightshift. During the evenings, he was an Android developer and during the day he was a McDonald’s Now Mindtree took it upon itself to groom this bright delivery boy. His education proﬁle read “BE in Junior Engineer as a better professional. Patricia Computer Science’. Preetham, a Mindtree Mind, was assigned the task of polishing this sharp, hard-wearing mind with Shiva Kumar from C&C challenged the boy to necessary language and writing skills. Soon, Ajay develop an application to perform calculations with could write project documents with proﬁciency. polynomials without using the existing algorithms. And Ajay Kumar, the boy with triple jobs and not Ajay is an individual who, with his intelligence and enough sleep, came back within the stipulated time, fortitude, would have made his mark anywhere he ready with the application using an indigenous went. Mindtree is especially happy to have him algorithm. Three more rounds of interviews and growing and thriving in its environment. Ajay was welcomed into the Mindtree fold as a Junior Engineer. Ajay was working on three jobs for the last six months to support his family. He had an engineering degree but the employer who had oﬀered him a job had cancelled the oﬀer much before Ajay even joined. The lull in the job market at that time had pushed him into the small jobs to make ends meet. 105 Nurturing a seed Meet Niroshan, Engineer, Mindtree! Niroshan Selvaraj is one of our young and new social causes of Mindtree Foundation at much deeper programmers, who joined us last year. levels of engagement, one which would commit our volunteering intentions to longer timeframes until As bright as any other of our programmers, as times of fruition. We expected D2R would do enthusiastic and engaged, Niroshan is a ‘Mindtree exactly that. Mind’ in the fullest sense of the word. For his is not a mind we ‘recruited and trained’, but a mind we And Niroshan didn’t let us down. He proved our D2R spotted early and nurtured ever since. Niroshan was project a worthwhile vision. He worked hard supported and groomed by us to ensure he broke throughout his school, set ambitious goals for himself through the shackles of his limiting background. and sought guidance from Mindtree Minds and joined Maharaja Engineering College in Coimbatore. He We spotted him in a Sri Lankan refugee camp school earned his B.Tech in IT in 2013 and became the ﬁrst in Tamil Nadu. We were there as a part of our TSA engineer the refugee camp school has ever produced. agenda Technologies for Social Action to help build He received support from all quarters at Mindtree, social sensitivities in our people. We were sure both organizational support and personal support. A Niroshan, then a fourth standard kid, was fully special induction was arranged for him at Mindtree to deserving of a stable education, constant support, train and absorb him into the enterprise. He was to be gentle guidance and eﬀective training in tune with his in the Java testing team. But that needed a stay at aptitude. A pair of Mindtree volunteers took him Bangalore for two and a half months, even before he under their wings. One was to act as his sibling, and started earning his salary. Our hospitality staﬀ the other, from the top management of Mindtree, was promptly came forward and volunteered to personally to fulﬁll the role of his parent until he was ready to take care of his stay. Niroshan’s ﬁrst project is testing take oﬀ on his own wings. That meant supporting him for a renowned client of Mindtree and he joins a team throughout his school and college years and later. of seven engineers on this ﬁrst assignment. We are glad and proud to see how well Niroshan has That was 2007, at the still early stage of our Dream to integrated seamlessly into the fold of our enterprise Reality (D2R) project we had started in 2005. We had today. been engaged with various CSR activities by then, including educational support to kids up to 8th When asked about working in Mindtree, Niroshan says standard. And we were also quite engaged in with an unmistakable excitement in his voice, “Ever employee volunteering for social causes. We were since my childhood, the word ‘Mindtree’ meant so looking at tying up our employee volunteering and much to me! The very word has positive and happy 106 connotations for me. I’m just happy, very happy to be here, as one among Mindtree Minds! And to get to work on these fantastic products is exciting too. Right now, I need to focus on excellence in my job. One day in the future, I want to give back what I’ve received here. To poor students with dreams and drives. One day, I will.” Every mind is long term project in itself. And we are on several such projects. Several Niroshans are on the way as of now and we would be happy to share their stories of dreams and success and our sense of satisfaction, with our stakeholders, from time to time. 107 Partner-speak Jayashree Lakshmi Varahan, Director, Spastic inﬂuences its peer organizations to contribute with Society of Tamil Nadu (SPASTN) their core strengths to support us in our cause. Mindtree’s engagement with Spastic Society goes as far back as the paintings on their walls, done by Once they commit to a cause, they go all the way up Spastic kids. Around 2011 when I joined SPASTN. to what is possible for that cause and they pool and We were struggling for funds for our community harness whatever resources and support needed to projects which we could not aﬀord to close down. make it happen. We were also wondering how to take our ideas forward on bridging the aﬀordability gap in assistive SPASTN is proud to be supported by Mindtree and we technology for the disabled, between Western see this relationship going from strength to strength countries and India. in the future. Mindtree came on board at that critical time but only K.N. Gopinath, Executive Director after a very thorough and tough evaluation of the Operations, Association for the project. Once they committed to our project, we saw Physically Disabled that their involvement was total. Going beyond funds, Currently Mindtree supports us for a project covering they oﬀered their technological competence to our functional independence to 100 children with severe ideas and developed the assistive technological disability in two districts of Karnataka Bijapur solutions. During the whole project what’s been most and Davangere. remarkable about them is their ability to devote themselves to understanding the issues in disability Our experience with them right from the ﬁrst day and the conscientious way with which they walk the they visited us along with their Chairman has been last mile with us. unusual, if I may say so. They came with no agenda! They kept themselves totally open and only listened We have had the pleasure of working with individuals to us, our dreams and hopes, our challenges and from the Mindtree Foundation who are completely concerns. They spent a lot of time subsequently, dedicated to the cause, often inspiring and looping in trying to understand, prioritize and then focus on a their younger colleagues from Mindtree to get project to start our engagement with. The entire involved too. And these young people have on process and the whole project was driven by our occasions brought in their sensitivities to notice needs and not their agenda. We as an NGO know this need-gaps in the comfort facilities of our project is a rare experience to come by and we treasure it so. locations which even we had not thought as important, resulting in Mindtree oﬀering to plug those Their oﬀering goes beyond funds: they oﬀer all they gaps for us. There are also instances where Mindtree can in terms of technological strength and personal 108 involvement. We were quite surprised to see the No wonder that our relationship in a short span of a individuals from the Mindtree Foundation actually few months has turned into a friendly one. Now we making multiple trips to our location, spending time are happy to hear that that Mindtree Foundation is on the ﬁeld, participating in the thick of action, soon involving some more people from Mindtree, the absorbing, learning and contributing at the same time. business enterprise, in understanding how the So much so that we consider it a best practice for intervention has made a diﬀerence to the lives of corporate donors; and we use and cite this as a these children. This only reaﬃrms our trust that we benchmark to get corporates more involved with our are indeed working with partners who are truly work rather than merely funding us and asking us for inclusive and involved in our cause. And we plan to progress reports. pitch for more projects with them, of course! 109 Our contributions: 2013-14 The year 2013-14 saw our commitment continue for our handpicked and diverse set of beneﬁciaries. We covered a diverse set of social issues across the states of Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, A.P and Odisha. Dream to reality (D2R) around Chennai. Mindtree Foundation team spent A total of 15 needy children are being nurtured under one day with the children during this session and our D2R project, under the care of Mindtree Minds sponsored the entire program. taking care of them as siblings and parents would. We We supported installation of a passenger lift for a have shared in this report, the proud story of Niroshan, new building of our NGO partner, Samarthanam our ﬁrst D2R child, completing his B.Tech and joining Trust, solar water heater for Missionaries of Charity our enterprise. in Yelahanka, buying of a school van for Shree Ananthnagar Vidhyanikethan School. Other D2R children continue to work hard and excel We distributed over 200 computers to 25 Schools in their spheres in including eight children studying across all locations, enabling computer access to Engineering in Dharmapuri, two girls in Nursing at over 1500 children. Bangalore and three girls studying in Salem. We continue to visit each place and counsel these Volunteer involvement in CSR kids personally. Our donation drives of old clothes, toys and books continued as in the years before. We also donated Our grant programs 1,313 number of blood bottles through TTK and We sponsored 129 underprivileged children for Narayana Hrudayalaya blood banks across all corrective surgeries through Sparsh Vachana. Mindtree locations. We supported KSCCW for their Bal Roshini & Bal 1100 volunteers participated in our Technologies Savika Projects to support education fee and for Social Action programs. Our TSA programs were medical care for the 30 children from poor families held for Mindtree Minds along with their families and to train 35 underprivileged women to become and friends on every second Saturday pre-school teachers / organizers. simultaneously across Mindtree Bangalore, Through Sikshana Foundation, we support 19 Chennai, Hyderabad and Pune. Our volunteers schools in Kanakapura District in Karnataka to during their monthly TSA visits continue to do improve their standards, beneﬁting 1615 children. hands-on activities such as cleaning the ﬂoors, We sponsored “Kanavu Pattarai” (Dream Workshop) ceilings, changing bed, feeding the inmates, program conducted by Nalanda Way Foundation. cleaning the kitchen and toilets at Missionaries of This one week residential program is conducted to Charity premises. improve the life skills of girls from slums in and 110 Life Skill program at Kengeri Government School students. More than 120 students beneﬁtted with 20 volunteers for 280 students and at Anjana through this program Vidya Kendra in Bangalore with 10 volunteers for 60 of our campus Mindtree Minds volunteered and 120 students were successfully conducted. took 850 of our support-staﬀ (house-keeping, Our Joy of Giving program this year involved 969 electrical, maintenance, gardening) and their Mindtree Minds and beneﬁtted 1120 people. families to Mysore on a one day picnic. We organized fund raising sale for six NGOs to sell We facilitated a movie shoot for Maya creations in their products across locations. These products Mindtree West camps: 150 Mindtree Minds were made by people with disabilities and self participated in creating a music video titled help women groups. Namma Bengaluru, Nanna Koduge an initiative Our campus Mindtree Minds went on a one day, of the Bangalore City Corporation to motivate outdoor, plastic cleaning drive as a part of their businesses and institutions to partner with them in learning curriculum in Bangalore and Chennai. We developing the city. called it ‘Mi Impact’ We implemented a one-day workshop for Jagriti We conducted one day career counseling program Yatra event for 450 to-be budding entrepreneurs at at a government school for their 10th standard Good Shepherd High School, Bangalore. Contribution of Mindtree Foundation in 2013-14 Mindtree Foundation expenditure as on 31 March 2014 Particulars Amount in Rs. Donation-charitable institutions 10,772,045 Donation-shelter expenses 112,973 Donation school fees 1,500,577 Bank charges 3,178 Donation food expenses 45,900 Indirect exp donation 43,222 Travel expenses 106,767 Printing & stationery 613 Bank charges 4,353 Staff welfare 45,900 TOTAL 12,589,628 111 Our plans for 2014-15 Strengthening education of children We continue to support our ongoing causes and Learning enhancement program: 6104 children commitments in the year 2014-15 while we work from 50 government primary and secondary towards actioning our newly drawn CSR charter and schools will beneﬁt, in Ramanagara, Karnataka policy with a new vigor. The next year would see us through Sikshana Foundation. projectivizing more of our CSR initiatives even while Our work with Agastya International Foundation: keeping our promises on the grants. Lab-on-a bike: 1600 rural school children in Andhra Pradesh will get practical hands-on Empowering the diﬀerently-abled scientiﬁc experience to increase their awareness In association with APD, 100 rural children in two and creativity. districts of Karnataka will be receiving signiﬁcant 375 rural school children around Chennai will be qualitative improvements on mobility and taught diﬀerent art and crafts practices, personality functional needs. development training to improve their standard of With KSCCW, 60 under-privileged children with living, through Nalanda Way Foundation disabilities from rural Bangalore will beneﬁt 768 tribal children in Odisha who have learning through education and corrective surgeries. diﬃculties in reading non-text books in Oriya and 200 disabled children from under-privileged family English in 7th Standard will be supported and in Karnataka children with disabilities from strengthened in education at Advasi Vikas Samithi, humble background with complex musculo-skeletal Serenda, Odisha. problems are to beneﬁt from corrective surgeries 50 deserving slum children from Ekalavya School, and post-operative care from Sparsh Foundation. Kasturi Trust, Hyderabad to be beneﬁtted by our Our work with SPASTN will cover our communitysupport schemes. based rehabilitation encompassing rehabilitation 200 children will be supported from 5 rural schools programs, home based training, need-based in Kanakapura, Bangalore., as a part of our drive to assistive services, capacity building, livelihood and improve standards of English and Mathematics in non formal education. 300 families from 360 rural Government schools through technology villages will be getting beneﬁted qualitatively on interventions from edZilla Software Technologies disability, family and environmental factors. 200 underprivileged rural youth will be trained With our support to literacy enhancing full time from 50 villages by BRDO (BEEM Rural Development program of SSK, 250 rural school children with Organization) with our support: BRDO trains poor, learning diﬃculties will be beneﬁtted. school dropout, unemployed rural youths in Our commitment to AMBA, our partner NGO, tailoring, computer education, data entry, electrical continues: AMBA enables intellectually challenged wiring, motor rewinding, carpentry and plumbing youngsters over 16 years of age to do data entry businesses and institutions to partner with them in and place them in suitable jobs. developing the city. 112 We implemented a one-day workshop for Jagriti in rural Bangalore through Karnataka State Council Yatra event for 450 to-be budding entrepreneurs at for Child Welfare (KSCCW). Good Shepherd High School, Bangalore. In Bhubaneswar, 500 urban women and children will be beneﬁtted through a program under Urban Empowering rural women Micro Business Center, Centurion University. 40 under-privileged, young, rural ladies will be trained to become pre-school teachers/organizers 113 Global presence Mindtree has a combination of sales oﬃces and delivery centers, to service global customers. USA Europe New Jersey Arizona United Kingdom France 15 independence blvd. 19820 N. 7th Ave. 288 Bishopsgate La Grande Arche Suite 410, Warren, Suite 135 EC2M 4QP, London Paroi Nord NJ07059, USA Phoenix, AZ85027-4736 United Kingdom 92044, Paris Ph: +1 908 604 8080 USA Ph: +44 20 3178 8643 France Fax: +1 908 604 7887 Ph: +1 480 499 3145 Fax: +44 20 7959 3030 Ph: +33 1 7329 4524 Fax: +1 602 535 2257 Fax: +33 1 7329 4500 Toll Free: +1 602 535 2257 Florida Washington Germany Switzerland 720 SW 2nd Avenue 5010 148th Ave NE Richmodstrasse 6 C/O Paramis AG South Tower, Gainesville, Suite 200, Redmond, 50667, Cologne Muehlengasse 2 FL 32601, USA WA 98052, USA Germany 4410, Liestal Ph: +1 352 702 4565 Ph: +1 425 867 3900 Ph: +49 221 9204 2233 Switzerland Fax: +1 352 433 4080 Fax: +1 425 861 8151 Fax: +49 221 9204 2200 Ph: +41 5 2269 1400 Fax: +41 5 1269 1401 Illinois California Belgium Netherlands 1901 N. Roselle road 2001 Gateway place Pegasuslaan 5 Koningin Juliana Plein 10, Suite 800, Suite 700 W 1831, Diegem 2595 AA, Den Haag Schaumburg, IL60195 San Jose,CA 95110 Belgium Netherlands USA USA Ph: +32 2709 2055 Ph: +31 7 0891 8475 Ph: +1 847 592 7044 Ph: +1 408 986 1000 Fax: +32 2709 2222 Fax: +31 7 0891 8433 Fax: +1 847 592 7043 Fax: +1 408 986 0005 Texas Canada Sweden 320 Decker drive Bay and Bloor Centre Svetsarvagen 15 2tr # 100,Irving,TX 75063 1235 Bay Street 17141, Solna USA Suit 400 Toronto Ontario (Stockholm) Ph: +1 972 422 9113 M5R3K4 Sweden Canada Ph: +46 8 5787 7020 Fax: +46 8 5787 7010 114 Asia Paciﬁc India UAE Japan Bengaluru Chennai 423, Block A, SW 2-21-7-703, Kiba Global village, RVCE post TP2 / 2, CyberVale DAFZA Koto-ku, Mysore road Mahindra world city SEZ PO Box 293858 Tokyo, 135-0042 Bengaluru 560059 Kanchipuram district Dubai, UAE Japan Karnataka, India Chennai 603002 Ph: +971 4260 2400 Ph: +81 3 5809 8444 Ph: +91 80 6706 4000 Tamilnadu, India Fax: +971 4260 2401 Fax: +81 3 5809 8445 Fax: +91 80 6706 4100 Ph: +91 44 6749 7000 Fax: +91 44 6749 7100 Singapore China 17 Changi Business Park Room 15031, Level 15 Plot no. 150, 5th Floor, Hardy block, Central1, Tower 2, Kerry Plaza EPIP second phase TRIL infopark ltd., #05 03 Honeywell No.1 Zhong Xin Si road KIADB industrial area Ramanujan IT city SEZ, Building, Futian district shenzhen Hoody village, Whiteﬁeld Rajiv Gandhi Salai, Changi Business Park, 518048 Bengaluru 560066 Taramani Singapore 486073 China Karnataka, India Chennai 600113 Singapore Ph: +86 755 3304 3162 / 63 Tamilnadu, India Ph: +65 6323 8135 Fax: +86 755 3304 3322 Ph: +91 44 3371 1100 Fax: +65 6323 1795 Fax: +91 44 3371 1000 Australia New Delhi Hyderabad Level 26, 44 Market st. A 1, second ﬂoor Divyasree orion Sydney, NSW 2000 Sector 10 B-6, Survey no-66 / 1 Australia Noida 201301 Raidugam, RR district ph: +61 (2) 9089 8970 / 71 Uttar Pradesh, India Hyderabad 500 032 Ph: +91 120 244 3210 / 11 Andhra Pradesh, India Ph: +91 40 6723 0000 Fax: +9140 6723 0100 Pune Rajiv Gandhi infotech & biotech park, Plot no.37 phase 1 MIDC, Hinjewadi Pune 411057 Maharashtra, India Ph: +91 20 3915 6000 Fax: +91 20 3915 6186 115 ANNEXURE2: ASSURANCE STATEMENT 116 117 118 Data assumptions Company The company owns four vehicles. An assumed average of 30KM per day is used. Mindtree has arrived at the owned average distance commuted by assuming the average round distance of Mindtree facilities from the center of the vehicles city. Thus, by multiplying the average km per day with the assumed number of working days in a year (250), we arrive at the total kilometers travelled. Emission factors are bifurcated into petrol and diesel based on the make.of the vehicle. Fuel usage Weight of one full LPG gas cylinder is considered as 19.5kg. This figure has been utilized in the event that locations have provided the number of LPG gas cylinders being used as opposed to the kg. Refrigerant a) For HFC's and PFC's the global warming potential of the refrigerant along with a conversion factor of 0.001 is converted into CO2e using standard conversion formulas. Employee a) For company leased vehicles, the fuel make of the vehicle is considered to determine petrol vs. diesel vehicles. Commute An average of the monthly petrol and diesel prices of all major Indian cities has been considered to compute the total liters consumed. Emissions are overstated by at least 20% as the fuel claim also includes personal travel on the part of employees. b) Assumed an average of 30 km per passenger per day for public transport. We have arrived at the average distance commuted by assuming the average round distance of Mindtree facilities from the center of the city. Thus, by multiplying the average passenger km per day by the assumed number of working days in a year (250) and the number of employees who use the service the total kilometers travelled are computed. It is assumed that the emission factor for public transport to be that of bus (type unknown) as a majority of employees using public transport commute by bus services. c) Public transport: We have arrived at the number of employees who use public transport by inference, i.e. by subtracting the total of the number of employees who use cars, two wheelers and Mindtree operated buses from the total number of employees in the India operations. d) Mindtree uses parking lot figures to determine a factor of the employees using fourand twowheelers e) For four and two wheelers, the emissions on account of employee commuting have been computed based on the assumption arrived from the company leased vehicles that 70% of fuel costs assumed are be associated with petrol, 30% of fuel costs assumed to be associated with diesel. The kilometers are calculated by assuming an average of 30 KM per passenger per day – with a similar principle to that of public transport. Business a) GHG protocol provides different emission factors for domestic, short haul and long haul flights. A distance Travel based classification into these categories is more appropriate. Based on an assumption and a study of available (International literature, Mindtree has considered to classify all flights as per the categorization below: & Domestic) • Domestic, less than 463 km • Short haul, between 464 km and 1108 km • Long haul, greater than 1108 km With this categorization, a majority of the flights (98%) are long haul with the balance under short haul (1%) and domestic (0.2%). Waste a) Weight of one UPS battery is considered as 11.70 kg. This figure has been utilized in the event that locations have provided the number of batteries being used as opposed to the kg b) Weight of 1 litre of used oil is considered as 0.88kgs. This figure has been utilized in the event that locations have provided the number of litres of used oil being disposed as opposed to the kg c) Weight of one CFL bulb is considered as 126g. This figure has been utilized in the event that locations have provided the number of CFL's being disposed as opposed to the Kg 119 Data assumptions d) Weight of one tubelight is considered as 250g. This figure has been utilized in the event that locations have provided the number of tubelights being disposed as opposed to the Kg e) Weight of one DG filter is considered as 1.5Kg. This figure has been utilized in the event that locations have provided the number of DG filters being disposed as opposed to the Kg f) The average weight of Municipal solid waste (wet/dry) generated is considered as 0.5kg/person/month. 50% of this is considered as dry waste which is recycled. g) In the event that waste (Oil soaked cotton and DG filters) have been disposed but there is no record of the same, averages of the available data have been considered for those months h) Emissions associated with waste disposed have been considered as opposed to disposed + generated + stored. i) Since clarity on the disposal methodology is not available, more conservative emission factors are used Freight Emission factor for domestic is used for domestic air freight and emission factor for international is that of long haul Water a) For smaller locations where the builder maintains the total water consumed, figures are obtained by assuming one employee consumes 65 liters of water per day. 65 Litres is derived based on ratio of the total water consumed in locations with accurate measure by the total number of employees b) Drinking water is collected in the form of number of cans. This is multiplied in 20 Litres (capacity of the bubble top) to provide the total number of litres Air emissions a) Air emissions are not measured monthly, and hence are extrapolated for the months not measured * The rupee to US dollar conversion factor was taken at the rupee-US dollar exchange rate of Rs. 45.6013 for the year 2010-11, Rs. 47.5709 for the year 2011-12, Rs. 54.2107 for the year 2012-13 and , Rs. 60.5237 for the year 2013-14. 120 The Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact Principles Statement Page No. Human rights Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human 28 rights; and Principle 2 Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. 28 Labor Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the 28 right to collective bargaining; Principle 4 The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; 28 Principle 5 The effective abolition of child labor; and 28 Principle 6 The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. 57 Environment Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; 88 Principle 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and 88, 90 Principle 9 Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. 86, 93 Anti-corruption Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 27 NVG report application table Sub part Aspects Page No. A Part A of the report includes basic information and data about the operations of the business entity. Thus, the reading of the report becomes more contextual and comparable with other similarly placed businesses. It may be written in a free format incorporating at least the following: A-1 Basic information about the business Name Cover page Nature of ownership 4 Details of the people in top management 30 Location of its operations national and 4, 114, 115 international 121 Products and services offered 4 Markets served 4, 114, 115 Economic and Financial Data Sales 4, 79, 81 Net profit 80 Tax paid 80 Total assets 80 Market capitalization 80 Number of employees 4, 60 A-2 Management's commitment statement to the ESG Guidelines 5, 12 Priorities in terms of the principle and core elements 5 Reporting period / cycle 4 Whether the report is based on this framework or any other framework 4, 12 Any significant risk that the business would like its stakeholders to know 25 Any goals and targets that were set by the top management for improving their performance 96 during the reporting period B Part B of the report incorporates the basic parameters on which the business may report their performance. Efforts have been made to keep the reporting simple, in view that this framework is equally applicable to small businesses as well. The report may be prepared in a free format with basic performance indicators included. In case the business entity has chosen not to adopt or report on any of the principles, the same may be stated along with, if possible, the reasons for not doing so. B-1 Principle 1 – ethics, transparency and Governance structure of the business, including 27, 30 accountability committees under the Board responsible for organizational oversight. In case no committee is constituted, then the details of the individual responsible for the oversight. Mandate and composition (including number of 29, 30 independent members and/or non-executive members) of such committee with the number of oversight review meetings held. State whether the person/committee head 29 responsible for oversight review is independent from the executive authority or not. If yes, how. 122 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to 29 provide recommendations or direction to the Board/ Chief Executive. Processes in place for the Board/Chief Executive to 29 ensure conflicts of interest are avoided. Internally developed statement on ethics, codes of 28 conduct and details of the process followed to ensure that the same are followed. Frequency with which the Board/Chief Executive 29 assesses BR performance. Principle 2 – product lifecycle Statement on recyclable raw materials used Not Applicable sustainability Statement on use of energy-efficient technologies, 86, 88, 89 designs and manufacturing/service-delivery processes Statement on copyrights issues in case of products Not Applicable that involve use of traditional knowledge and geographical indicators Statement on use of sustainable practices in the 52 value chain Principle 3 – employees' well-being Total number of employees with percentage of 60 employees that are engaged through contractors Statement on non-discriminatory employment 57 policy of the business entity Percentage of employees who are women 60 Number of persons with disabilities hired 59 Amount of the least monthly wage paid to any 61 skilled and unskilled employee Number of training and skill up-gradation 39 programmes organized during the reporting period for skilled and unskilled employees Number of incidents of delay in payment of wages 46 during the reporting period Number of grievances submitted by the employees 29 123 Principle 4 – stakeholder engagement Statement on the process of identifying 19 stakeholders and engaging with them Statement on significant issues on which formal dialogue has been undertaken with any of the 22 stakeholder groups Principle 5 – human rights Statement on the policy of the business entity on 28 observance of human rights in their operation Statement on complaints of human rights 28 violations filed during the reporting period Principle 6 – environment Percentage of materials used that are recycled Not Applicable input materials Total energy consumed by the business entity for its 92 operations Statement on use of energy saving processes and 88, 90, 91 the total energy saved due to use of such processes Use of renewable energy as percentage of total 86 energy consumption Total water consumed and the percentage of water 93 that is recycled and reused Statement on quantum of emissions of greenhouse 90 gases and efforts made to reduce the same Statement on discharge of water and effluents 93 indicating the treatment done before discharge and the destination of disposal Details of efforts made for reconstruction of 95, 96 bio-diversity Principle 7 – policy advocacy Statement on significant policy advocacy efforts 30 undertaken with details of the platforms used Principle 8 – inclusive growth Details of community investment and development 110, 111 work undertaken indicating the financial resources deployed, and its long-term impact Details of innovative practices, products and services 110, 111 that particularly enhance access and allocation of resources to the poor and marginalized groups in society 124 Principle 9 – customer value Statement on whether the labelling of their Not Applicable products has adequate information regarding product-related customer health and safety, method of use and disposal, product and process standards observed Details of customer complaints on safety, labelling Not Applicable and safe disposal of products received during the reporting period C Part C of the report incorporates two important aspects on BR reporting. Part C-1 is a disclosure by the business entity on any negative consequences of its operations on the social, environmental and economic fronts. The objective is to encourage the business to report on this aspect in a transparent manner so that it can channelize its efforts to mitigate the same. Part C-2 is aimed at encouraging the business to continuously improve its performance in the area of BR. C-1 • Brief report on any material/significant negative consequences of the operations of the Not Applicable business entity • Brief on goals and targets in the area of Social 113, 114 social, environmental and economical responsibilities that the business entity Environmental 86 has set for itself for the next reporting period Economical 78, 79 125 GRI content index Application level: A Assured By KPMG STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART I: Profile disclosures 1. Strategy and analysis Profile disclosure Description Reported Page no. Explanation 1.1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the Fully 5 organization. 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks and opportunities. Fully 6, 25 2. Organizational profile 2.1 Name of the organization. Fully Cover, 4 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services. Fully 4 2.3 Operational structure of the organization, including Fully 4 main divisions, operating companies, subsidiaries, and joint ventures. 2.4 Location of organization's headquarters. Fully 4 2.5 Number of countries where the organization Fully 4, 114, 115 operates, and names of countries with either major operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report. 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. Fully 4 2.7 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, Fully 4, 114, 115 sectors served, and types of customers/beneficiaries). 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization. Fully 4 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period Fully 4 No changes regarding size, structure, or ownership. 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period. Fully 7, 8 126 3. Report parameters 3.1 Reporting period (e.g., fiscal/calendar year) for Fully 4 information provided. 3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any). Fully 4, 12 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.) Fully 4, 12 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or Fully 13, its contents. back cover 3.5 Process for defining report content. Fully 12 3.6 Boundary of the report (e.g., countries, divisions, Fully 4 subsidiaries, leased facilities, joint ventures, suppliers). See GRI boundary protocol for further guidance. 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary Fully 4 of the report (see completeness principle for explanation of scope). 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, Not applicable No structural leased facilities, outsourced operations, and other variation which entities that can significantly affect comparability from can affect period to period and/or between organizations. comparability 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of Fully 119 No change calculations, including assumptions and techniques from previous underlying estimations applied to the compilation of report. No the Indicators and other information in the report. deviations Explain any decisions not to apply, or to substantially from protocol. diverge from, the GRI indicator protocols. 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of Not applicable No information provided in earlier reports, and the restatements reasons for such re-statement (e.g., mergers/acquisitions, change of base years/periods, nature of business, measurement methods). 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in Fully 4 No significant the scope, boundary, or measurement methods changes applied in the report. 3.12 Table identifying the location of standard disclosures Fully 129, 130 in the report. 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking Fully 4 external assurance for the report. 127 4. Governance, commitments and engagement 4.1 Governance structure of the organization, including Fully 29, 30 committees under the highest governance body responsible for specific tasks, such as setting strategy or organizational oversight. 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance Fully 29 body is also an executive officer. 4.3 For organizations that have a unitary board structure, Fully 29, 30 state the number and gender of members of the highest governance body that are independent and/or non-executive members. 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to Fully 29 provide recommendations or direction to the highest governance body. 4.5 Linkage between compensation for members of the Not reported highest governance body, senior managers, and executives (including departure arrangements), and the organization's performance (including social and environmental performance). 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance body to Fully 29 ensure conflicts of interest are avoided. 4.7 Process for determining the composition, qualifications, Fully 29 and expertise of the members of the highest governance body and its committees, including any consideration of gender and other indicators of diversity. 4.8 Internally developed statements of mission or values, Fully 4, 48, 27, 28, codes of conduct, and principles relevant to economic, 34, 57 environmental, and social performance and the status of their implementation. 4.9 Procedures of the highest governance body for Fully 29 overseeing the organization's identification and management of economic, environmental, and social performance, including relevant risks and opportunities, and adherence or compliance with internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct, and principles. 4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest governance body's Fully 29 own performance, particularly with respect to economic, environmental, and social performance. 128 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary Fully 86, 88, approach or principle is addressed by the 89-93 organization. 4.12 Externally developed economic, environmental, and Fully 4 social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the organization subscribes or endorses. 4.13 Memberships in associations (such as industry Fully 30 associations) and/or national/international advocacy organizations in which the organization: * Has positions in governance bodies; * Participates in projects or committees; * Provides substantive funding beyond routine membership dues; or * Views membership as strategic. 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the Fully 19-21 organization. 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders Fully 19 with whom to engage. 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including Fully 19 frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder group. 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through Fully 22-24 stakeholder engagement, and how the organization has responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting. STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART II: Disclosures on Management Approach (DMAs) DMA Description Reported Page no. Explanation DMA EC Disclosure on management approach EC Fully 78, 79 Aspects Economic performance Fully 78 Market presence Fully 78, 82, 83 Indirect economic impacts Fully 80, 83 DMA EN Disclosure on management approach EN Fully 86-88 Aspects Materials Fully 86, 87 Energy Fully 86, 87, 92 Water Fully 86, 87, 93 129 Biodiversity Fully 95, 96 Emissions, effluents and waste Fully 94, 95 Products and services Fully 39, 43 Compliance Fully 29 Transport Fully 91, 97 Overall Fully 86, 87 28,57, 45-50, DMA LA Disclosure on management approach LA Fully 56, 57,61 Aspects Employment Fully 57, 48, 49 Labor/management relations Fully 28, 45-49 Occupational health and safety Fully 49, 50 Training and education Fully 36-39 Diversity and equal opportunity Fully 56-57 Equal remuneration for women and men Fully 61 DMA HR Disclosure on management approach HR Fully 28, 52, 57 Aspects Investment and procurement practices Fully 52 Non-discrimination Fully 57 Freedom of association and collective bargaining Fully 28 Child labour Fully 28 Prevention of forced and compulsory labor Fully 28 Security practices Fully 28 Indigenous rights Not applicable Assessment Partially 45, 46 Remediation Partially 29, 47 130 DMA SO Disclosure on management approach SO Fully 27, 29, 30 Aspects Local communities Fully 102 Corruption Fully 27 Public policy Fully 30 Anti-competitive behaviour Fully 29 Compliance Fully 29 DMA PR Disclosure on management approach PR Fully 29 Aspects Customer health and safety Not applicable Mindtree is a IT/ITES company Product and service labelling Mindtree is a Not applicable IT/ITES company Marketing communications Not reported Customer privacy Fully 29 Compliance Fully 29 STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART III: performance indicators Economic Performance indicator Description Reported Page no. Explanation Economic performance EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed, Fully 79 including revenues, operating costs, employee compensation, donations and other community investments, retained earnings and payments to capital providers and governments. EC2 Financial implications and other risks and Fully 86, 95 opportunities for the organization's activities due to climate change. EC3 Coverage of the organization's defined benefit Fully 58, 59, 83 plan obligations. EC4 Significant financial assistance received from Fully 83 government. 131 Market presence EC5 Range of ratios of standard entry level wage by Fully 49 gender compared to local minimum wage at significant locations of operation. EC6 Policy, practices and proportion of spending on Partially 52 Preference is locally-based suppliers at significant locations of set; data not operation. tracked EC7 Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior Partially 48 Preference is management hired from the local community at set; data not significant locations of operation. tracked Indirect economic impact EC8 Development and impact of infrastructure investments Fully 110, 111 and services provided primarily for public benefit through commercial, in-kind or pro bono engagement. EC9 Understanding and describing significant indirect Partially 110, 111 economic impact, including the extent of impact. Environmental Materials EN1 Materials used by weight or volume. Not applicable Mindtree is a IT/ITES company EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input Not applicable Mindtree is a materials. IT/ITES company Energy EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source. Fully 92 EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source. Fully 92 EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency Fully 93 improvements. EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable Fully 90-93 energy based products and services and reductions in energy requirements as a result of these initiatives. EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and Fully 92, 93 reductions achieved. 132 Water EN8 Total water withdrawal by source. Fully 93 EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of Fully 93 water. EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and Fully 93 reused. Biodiversity EN11 Location and size of land owned, leased, managed Not applicable Mindtree is in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high not located biodiversity value outside protected areas. near areas of high biodiversity EN12 Description of significant impact of activities, products Not applicable value and services on biodiversity in protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. EN13 Habitats protected or restored. Fully 95, 96 EN14 Strategies, current actions and future plans for Not applicable managing impacts on biodiversity. EN15 Number of IUCN Red List species and national Not applicable conservation list species with habitats in areas affected by operations, by level of extinction risk. Emissions, effluents and waste EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by Fully 90 weight. EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by Fully 90, 91 weight. EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and Fully 90, 91 reductions achieved. EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight. Fully 91 EN20 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions by type Fully 91 and weight. EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination. Fully 93 EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. Fully 94, 95 EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills. Nil Not applicable 133 EN24 Weight of transported, imported, exported or treated Not applicable Not applicable waste deemed hazardous under the terms of the Basel as per the Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII and percentage of Basel transported waste shipped internationally. Convention EN25 Identity, size, protected status and biodiversity value of Not applicable Mindtree is not water bodies and related habitats significantly located near affected by the reporting organization's discharges of areas of water and runoff. biodiversity value Products and services EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impact of Fully 86-87 No impacts products and services and the extent of impact from products/ mitigation. services; initiatives to mitigate operational impacts are reported. EN27 Percentage of products sold and packaging material Not applicable Mindtree is an reclaimed by category. IT/ITES company Compliance EN28 Monetary value of significant fines and total number Not reported of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations. Transport EN29 Significant environmental impact of transporting Fully 92 products and other goods and materials used for the organization's operations and transporting members of the workforce. Overall EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures and Fully 95 investments by type. Social: labor practices and decent work Employment LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment Fully 60 contract and region, broken down by gender. LA2 Total number and rate of new employee hires and Fully 60, 47 employee turnover by age group, gender and region. 134 LA3 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not Fully 48, 49 provided to temporary or part-time employees, by major operations. LA15 Return to work and retention rates after parental Fully 61 leave, by gender. Labor/management relations LA4 Percentage of employees covered by the collective Not applicable No trade bargaining agreements. unions, no collective agreements LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding significant Not applicable operational changes, including whether it is specified in collective agreements. Occupational health and safety LA6 Percentage of the total workforce represented in Fully 48 formal joint management-worker health and safety committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs. LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days and Fully 58 absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities by region and by gender. LA8 Education, training, counselling, prevention and Fully 49, 50 risk-control programs in place to assist workforce members, their families, or community members regarding serious diseases. LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal Not applicable No trade agreements with trade unions. unions Training and education LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee by Fully 39 gender, and by employee category. LA11 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning Fully 40-44, 46 that support the continued employability of employees and assist them in managing career moves. LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular Fully 45 performance and career development reviews, by gender. 135 Diversity and equal opportunity LA13 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of Fully 31 employees as per employee category, according to gender, age group, minority group membership and other indicators of diversity. Equal remuneration for women and men LA14 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to Fully 61 men by employee category, by significant locations of operation. Social: human rights Investment and procurement practices HR1 Percentage and total number of significant investment Partially 28 agreements and contracts that include clauses incorporating human rights concerns, or that have undergone human rights screening. HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers, contractors and Partially 28 other business partners that have undergone human rights screening and actions taken. HR3 Total hours of employee training on policies and Partially 28 procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained. Non-discrimination HR4 Total discrimination incidents and corrective actions Fully 29 No cases taken. reported Freedom of association and collective bargaining HR5 Operations and significant suppliers identified in Partially 28, 52 which the right to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining may be violated or at significant risk and actions taken to support these rights. Child labor HR6 Operations and significant suppliers identified as Fully 28, 52 having significant risk for incidents of child labor, and measures taken to contribute to the effective abolition of child labor. 136 Forced and compulsory labor HR7 Operations and significant suppliers identified as Fully 28, 52 having a significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor, and measures to contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor. Security practises HR8 Percentage of security personnel trained in the Fully 28 organization's policies or procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations. Indigenous rights HR9 Total incidents of violations involving rights of Non applicable No indigenous indigenous people and actions taken. population near Mindtree's operations. Assessment HR10 Percentage and total number of operations that have Partially 28 been subject to human rights reviews and/or impact assessments. Remediation HR11 Grievances related to human rights filed, addressed Fully 29 No cases and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms. reported Social: Society Local communities SO1 Percentage of operations with implemented local Partially 110-113 community engagement, impact assessments and development programs. SO9 Operations with significant potential or actual Non applicable No significant negative impacts on local communities. impacts SO10 Prevention and mitigation measures implemented in Non applicable No significant operations with significant potential or actual negative impacts impacts on local communities. Corruption SO2 Percentage and total number of business units Fully 27 analyzed for risks related to corruption. 137 SO3 Percentage of employees trained in the organization's Fully 27 anti-corruption policies and procedures. SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption. Fully 28 Public policy SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public Fully 30 policy development and lobbying. SO6 Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to Fully 80 No such political parties, politicians, and related institutions contributions by country. Anti-competitive behaviour SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive Fully 29 None behaviour, anti-trust and monopoly practices and their outcomes. Compliance SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number Fully All monetary of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with significant fines laws and regulations. and non-monetary sanctions have been clearly explained in page 72 of our audited annual report (http://www.mind tree.com/aboutus/investors/ annual-report2013-14/annualreport-2013-14) Social: Product Responsibility Customer health and safety PR1 Lifecycle stages in which health and safety impacts of Not applicable Not applicable. products and services are assessed for improvement The services and the percentage of significant products and offered by services categories subject to such procedures. Mindtree do not have a health and safety impact, as it does not manufacture any goods/products. 138 PR2 Total incidents of non-compliance with regulations Not applicable Not applicable. and voluntary codes concerning health and safety The services impacts of products and services during their lifecycle, offered by by type of outcomes. Mindtree do not have a health and safety impact, as it does not manufacture any goods/products. Product and service labeling PR3 Type of product and service information required by Not applicable Not applicable. procedures and percentage of significant products The services and services subject to such information requirements. offered by Mindtree do not have a health and safety impact, as it does not manufacture any goods/products. PR4 Total incidents of non-compliance with regulations Not applicable Not applicable. and voluntary codes concerning product and service The services information and labelling, by type of outcomes. offered by Mindtree do not have a health and safety impact, as it does not manufacture any goods/products. Mindtree does not have compliance requirements for labelling or information. PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, including Fully 29 No such results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction. incidents 139 Marketing communications PR6 Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and Not applicable voluntary codes related to marketing communications, including advertising, promotion and sponsorship. PR7 Total incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship by type of outcomes. Not reported Customer privacy PR8 Total substantiated complaints regarding breaches of Fully 29 customer privacy and losses of customer data. Compliance PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for Not applicable No such non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning incidents the provision and use of products and services. 140 Glossary of Acronyms Acronym Expansion APD Association for the Physically Disabled BEE Bureau of Energy Efficiency BMTC Bangalore Metropolitan Transport Corporation BOD Board of Directors BSE Bombay Stock Exchange BU Business Unit C6, C7 Two specific levels of middle level managers C&B Compensation and Benefits CBS Common Bus System CII Confederation of Indian Industry COMM 101 Name of a Communication program at Mindtree CRO Chief Risk Officer CSAT Customer Satisfaction CSR Corporate Social Responsibility D2R Dream to Reality EDGES Ethnicity, Disability, Gender and Sexual Orientation EHS Environment, Health and Safety ELP Emerging Leaders Program ELW Entry Level Wages EMS Environmental Management System EPS Earnings Per Share ERM Enterprise Risk Management ESOP Employee Stock Ownership Plan FY Financial year GHG Green House Gas GJ Giga Joules 141 HFC Hydro-Flouro-Carbon HMHB Healthy Mind Healthy Body IGG I Got Garbage INR Indian National Rupees IP Intellectual Property ISO International Organization for Standardization IT Information Technology ITES Information Technology Enabled Services KM Knowledge Management KSCCW Karnataka State Council for Child Welfare KwH Kilowatt Hour LEED Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design LMW Local Minimum Wages MCPM Mindtree Certified Project Managers MGC Mindtree Green Council MOC Missionaries of Charity MAKE Most Admired Knowledge Enterprise NASSCOM The National Association of Software and Services Companies NOx Oxides of Nitrogen NSE National Stock Exchange of India Limited NVG-SEE Voluntary Guidelines on Social, Environmental and Economic Responsibilities of Business NGO Non Government Organization OHSAS Occupational Health and Safety Assessment sequence ROCE Return on Capital Employed ROW Rest of the World R&R Rewards and Recognition RWH Rain Water Harvesting SOW Statement of Work 142 SOx Oxides of Sulfur SPM Suspended Particulate Matter SEBI Securities Exchange Board of India STP Sewage Treatment Plant TSA Technologists for Social Action UNGC United Nations Global Compact USD United States Dollar VAV Variable Air Volume 143 About the writer Sangeeta Mansur is a sustainability professionala Her boutique ﬁrm Bhairavi Business & Consultancy researcher, writer, trainer and advisor on endeavors to catalyze CSR and Sustainability Sustainability, with a focus on sustainability strategy performance towards tomorrow’s business, and loves roadmaps, capacitybuilding and sustainability to co-create paths of holistic value for forwardcommunication, including reporting. looking organizations. Her doctoral study ( from IISc.) is in the area of CSR, Sangeeta has extensively studied the landscape of and her experience with leading research organizations Mindtree stakeholders-internal and external, in India and the Middle East lends her work in CSR & conceptualized the key theme and the core narrative, Sustainability a strong anchor in research. She is a harmonized the GRI framework with it and has trainer certiﬁed by GRI in sustainability reporting, and reﬂected our story in our voice, for our stakeholders. she believes in the power of sustainability frameworks to lead organizations towards a future that rewards Sangeeta Mansur, PhD., inclusive business. Founder Catalyst, Bhairavi Business & Consultancy www.bhairaviconsultancy.com 144 This Sustainibility Report is printed on 100% Recycled paper Feedback and communication We welcome any feedback and suggestions which will further strengthen our sustainability programs. Contact details: Chitra Byregowda | Head – Sustainability & Diversity | Chitra.Byregowda@mindtree.com Mindtree Global Village, | RVCE Post, Mysore Road | Bangalore 560 059 | Karnataka, India. Telephone: +91-80-6706 4000 | Fax: +91-80-6706 4100 The report can be downloaded at http://www.mindtree.com/sustainability/mindtree-sustainability-report.pdf www.mindtree.com
