WiproSustainability Wipro SustainabilityReport Report201-1 2014-15 AND THE EMERGING FUTURE AND THE EMERGING FUTURE The theme of our report this year, ‘Water and the emerging future’, underscores the At Wipro, our engagement with water goes back more than a decade and spans a range of centrality of water to the collective future of humanity.That water scarcity poses a risk to initiatives both, within our boundary as well as outside with the larger community. Our our well-being is starkly evident in varying degrees in different geographies of the world. initiatives around water efficiency, recycling and harvesting have resulted in a cumulative The Global Risk report for 2015 released by the World Economic Forum ranks water savings of more than 3000 million liters over the last four years. In parallel, acting on the scarcity as the number one risk in terms of impact. fundamental axiom that water is a collective resource that needs collaborative governance with other stakeholders, we started a program three years back around our The question of how we can resolve the emergent water crisis is engaging the best minds campuses in Bangalore ( Sarjapur) and Chennai that sought to critically understand the across the world. Perhaps the answer lies in our past. Over millennia, our relationship with larger picture of our water trail. This project has progressed in exciting ways and we are water has been richly kaleidoscopic – somatic, cultural and spiritual. About 60% of our now towards the close of completing a detailed aquifer map of groundwater for a 33 sq km body is water which literally courses through our veins.The food that we eat comes from a area around our campus in Sarjapur.This is probably the first of its kind in the country and magic alchemy of water, sunlight and soil.Water seems to have been part of our daily lives when combined with active citizen involvement can lead to unique model of citizen-led from the first beginnings – in food, in drink, in cleansing ourselves, in rituals of birth and model of managing water. death….and everything in between. It’s not surprising therefore that many of the great, early civilizations flourished around rivers – the Tigris, the Euphrates, the Indus, the Nile, Water and well-being are intimately connected, a fact that is intuitively understood and felt the Ganges .Water has determined the fates of many of these civilizations both ways – in by each one of us. David Orr, the renowned thinker and humanist, says this best in his lyrical their ascent as well as in their decline. Floods or the shifting course of a river or extended essay ‘Reflections on water and oil’ : “The modern world is in some ways a dialogue drought have often meant the rapid disappearance of entire cities and regions. between oil and water.Water makes life possible, while oil is toxic to most life.Water in its pure state is clear; oil is dark….Water has inspired great poetry and literature. Our It is in tribute to humanity’s ever evolving relationship to water that our report carries a language is full of allusions to springs, depths, currents, rivers, seas, rain, mist, dew, and special feature highlighting several sterling narratives on this aspect. The ingenuity of the snowfall.To a great extent our language is about water and people in relation to water.We Mayans in harvesting water in arid terrain, the network of fountains that watered the think of time flowing like a river. We cry oceans of tears. We ponder the wellsprings of rugged slopes of the famed Machu Pichu , the engineering genius of the aqueducts of thought. Oil, on the contrary, has had no such effect on our language.” ancient Rome that served a population of a million, the first river civilization on the banks of the Tigris-Euphrates in Mesopotamia, a drainage system in Harappa of 5000 years back In conclusion, water is an apt metaphor for the kind of emerging future that we want to cothat is marveled at even today…and in more recent times, Australia’s heroic efforts at create.Water is the ultimate renewable resource as it cycles perennially through land, the water conservation in an endemically dry country by using science and by involving its oceans and the atmosphere.And yet its delicate balance across geographies and seasons is citizens . These are just a few examples of the featured stories that serve to inform and disrupted easily, affecting the fates of millions. The future of our well being is similarly inspire. dependent on the delicate balance and subtle interplay of humans and the blue planet that we call home. We hope that this report is a small step in in informing, educating and bringing about progress towards the change that we want. CONTENTS Letter from Chairman Section 5d Customer .................................................................................................................. Section 2 Report Profile and Assurance Approach ........................................................ Section 5e ? Materiality Write-up Investor ...................................................................................................................... Section 3 Section 5f Organization Profile ................................................................................................ Supply Chain ........................................................................................................... ? Awards and Accolades ? ERM Section 5g ? Corporate Governance and Ombuds Education and Community ............................................................................... ? Diversity Section 5h Section 4 Advocacy and Public Policy ................................................................................. Sustainability: Strategic Perspective .............................................................. ? Megaforces Section 6 ? Dashboard Assurance Statement ........................................................................................... ? Charters/Networks Section 7 Section 5 Index of GRI Indicators ........................................................................................ Stakeholders ............................................................................................................. Section 7a Section 5a Glossary ..................................................................................................................... Engagement Framework .................................................................................. Section 5b Employees/People Section ................................................................................ Section 5c Ecological ................................................................................................................. LETTER FROM THE CHAIRMAN pillar is pivoted on the vision that that water is acommunity resource that needs a model of collaborative governance.Aligned with this vision, we started a program three years back around our campuses in Bangalore( Sarjapur) and Chennai that sought to critically understand the larger picture of our water trail. This project has progressed in exciting ways and we are now towards the close of completing a detailed aquifer map of groundwater for a 33 sq km area around our campus in Sarjapur. We are also actively engaged with multiple citizen groups in understanding and addressing this problem. Our plans for the next two years include similar citizen initiatives in four other clusters in Bangalore under the aegis of the Karnataka State Water Network and a program that focuses on the restoration of lakes in the city. Azim H Premji Our work on water doesn’t stop with the above but extends to education where we are trying to develop systemic capabilities of engaging with the water Chairman, Wipro Ltd. challenge in schools Through earthian, our nation-wide program in sustainability education,more than 2500 students from nearly 500 schools from across the Dear fellow stakeholders country have, over the past two years, completed a wide range of activities that have helped develop their understanding of water from both, the practical and Welcome to our seventh sustainability report for the year 2013-14.The theme of conceptual points of view this year’s report,‘Water and our emerging future’, underscores the centrality of water to our collective future. Water scarcity has been featuring in the top 10 Our wide engagement with water emphasizes a crucial point that responding to global risks for three years running now in the annual risk report of the World sustainability challenges needs tobe multi-dimensionaland transcend Economic Forum. Evidence from all around points to the imperative of engaging boundaries.We are trying to follow this strategic approach in our other initiatives urgently and deeply with the complexity of the water challenge. as well. Let me illustrate with the example of our work ondisability . It is a matter of some satisfaction for us that there are more 500 persons with disability as part Our engagement with water goes back more than a decade. One important pillar of our workforce today. Over the past five years, we have redesigned our is our internal initiatives around recycling, rainwater harvesting and the use of workspaces and systems so that they provide the crucial foundational support for technology in water efficiency. Over the past four years, these initiatives have such employees..We are now extending this outside to the social sector with helped in a cumulative savings of nearly 3000 million liters of water. The other carefully designed engagements in the space of children with disability.. Our first projects have been initiated and you will hear a lot more about our work in this sound economics, enlightened policies and empowered citizenry but above all, it space in our next report. will depend on our mindsets and whether we are ready to adopt new ways of seeing, thinking, feeling and acting. Let me conclude therefore by affirming that The aboveprinciple of boundary-less action is also reflected in our global each of us has the power to make a difference for the better. Let us exercise that approach to working with communities wherever we have significant presence. power. Three years back, we started a programfor improving science and math education in the U.S.A by focusing on developing teacher capacity in schools that are located in disadvantaged inner city districts in Chicago, New Jersey and Boston. This is With Best Wishes progressing well and in collaboration with our partners, 250 teachers from 20 Azim H Premji schools are part of the first cohort. We plan to expand to other cities over the next two years I have talked about just three of our initiatives in this letter – but our sustainability program has many more elements to it, all built on a similar framework of rigorous goals, integrative execution and continuous improvement.The highlights of our principal initiatives are available in the dashboard in the beginning of this report. While we are happy with the progress we are making every year, we are simultaneously cognizant of the need to improve and raise the bar for ourselves constantly. Based on our internal reviews as well as on the feedback from customer assessments and independent third party audits, some of the areas that we have identified as opportunities to build upon are : Increasing the footprint of renewable energy, Enhancing the usability of treated water through ultra-cycling . Increasing the quantum of rain water harvesting and Expanding our work with proximate communities. The year 2015 holds special significance with the expectation that new multilateral agreements will be in place on Climate Change and on Sustainable Development Goals.The future that we all want – a sustainable, prosperous, equitable and humane world will depend on several things to come together: 1842, New York City New York City, home to the world’s largest water supply system A network of tunnels and aqueducts in the Big Apple meets the daily water needs of eight million New Yorkers with ease. In 1842, the Old Croton Aqueduct was built, carrying almost 90 million gallons of water into the city per day. The following years saw newer reservoirs and the New Croton Aqueduct in 1890. The consolidated distribution system in New York City today provides uninterrupted supply of 1500 million gallons of clean, potable water across the fve boroughs of the city. ? A picture of The Old Croton Aqueduct Report Profile and Assurance Approach 2.Report Profile and Assurance Approach 2 In this section, we provide an overview of the profile of our sustainability report In the latter part of this section, we articulate our approach to report assurance, a for 2013-14; the profile provides the anchoring context in terms of coverage and key determinant of the quality and transparency of any report. scope for the report itself. A key topic discussed in this section is Wipro’s Materiality approach that helps determine the priorities of our sustainability program and the corresponding disclosures. Report Profile The profile of our sustainability report is covered under the following heads Profile Parameter Brief description Time Period Provides information on Reporting Period and frequency of publishing the report Provides the scope of the report in terms of business divisions that are covered and the sustainability Scope and Boundary topics covered in each In this sub-section, a framework is articulated for determining the relative materiality of different Content sustainability areas for Wipro – this largely determines the depth of coverage of these topics in the report Provides a contextual framework of the underlying processes, systems and empirical assumptions for Data methodologies the data and metrics published in this report Report Profile and Assurance Approach 7 Reporting period This report’s scope, content and boundary The reporting period for this sustainability report is the fiscal year April 1, 2013 to Our first aim was to gain a broad understanding of material aspects across our March 31, 2014 , referred to hereafter in short as '13-14 supply chain. This we did by conducting an environmental and social risk assessment of our supplier base in association with two UK based organizations (Trucost and Fronesys in 2012 and revised in 2013). The economic/financial risk assessment was conducted by the ERM function in Wipro. IT services Date of the most recent previous report: Software services BPO services Our most recent sustainability report was for the fiscal ? Consulting ? Business Process year 2012-13, released in March 2014. ? Package Outsourcing Implementation ? Application Development & Primary offerings Maintenance ? Testing Services ? Technology Infrastructure ? Product Engineering Reporting cycle: ? Americas ? India Our sustainability report is published on an annual basis. ? Europe ? Americas ? India ? Europe Geography ? Japan presence ? Middle East ? Asia Pacific 8 Report Profile and Assurance Approach The content of this report Financial ? Financial ? performance performance indicators for all indicators for all This is our 7th sustainability report and like our previous reports, we continue to geographies geographies adopt the stakeholder format of reporting. Environmental ? Environmental ? Scope of reporting performance for performance for Given that stakeholder inclusion and engagement is such a crucial cornerstone of India (only energy India (only energy the AA1000 and the GRI frameworks, we believe that the stakeholder format is data reported for data reported for more appropriate for focusing attention on key material aspects for each of the overseas locations) overseas locations) stakeholders. In doing so, we are cognizant of other sustainability dimensions that Employee metrics ? Employee metrics ? may cut across stakeholders or are context specific.We have tried to ensure that for all geographies for all geographies these are covered in the ‘Sustainability Strategy’ section. Social Programs ? Social Programs ? cover primarily cover primarily India India Other qualitative ? Other qualitative ? reporting covers all reporting covers all geographies ( unless geographies ( unless otherwise specified) otherwise specified) Report Profile and Assurance Approach 9 Materiality Redefined The ‘Stakeholder’ centric structure of this report our workforce, combined with our highly skilled and relatively young workforce makes for an inclusive work environment and openness to learning and driving This is our 7th sustainability report and like our previous reports, we continue to change. It stands to reason, therefore, that in our materiality grid, top aspects adopt the stakeholder format of reporting. While this has been the report include People Development, Diversity & Inclusion and Voice of Stakeholder.The structure of choice for us since our first report, we have been periodically urban centric nature of our business makes us more vulnerable to urban issues debating its merits vis-à-vis other formats. For example, a theme-centric format – such as water and energy scarcity, transport congestion and long commutes. wherein the structure is around themes like ‘Energy’, ‘Water’, ‘Health and Well These in turn create lead to impacts such as work-life imbalance, air pollution and Being’ – might provide a greater sense of emphasis to the materiality of issues ; it its effects on health and contagion risk in crowded places. Health & Safety might also be able to better convey the range of issues addressed under one therefore continues to be a top material aspect for us. theme e.g. under the theme of ‘Energy and Carbon’, we can talk about at least three distinct tracks : Reducing the operational carbon footprint of our facilities, For IT companies in India, constant scrutiny and external assessment is a way of Providing Smart Energy Management Systems to our customers and Building life. As thought leaders and role models, it is incumbent on us therefore to Advocacy around Energy and Climate Change. But after due discussion and demonstrate high levels of integrity and transparency. This should be used to debate, our collective decision has been to stick to the stakeholder format for the catalyze continuous improvement in transparency, across all levels of fundamental reason that the question ‘Who are your stakeholders?’ has more engagement. Our workplace culture and easy access to technology make it that primacy than ‘What are your material issues ?’. It is a cornerstone principle of the much easier to engage with stakeholders through informal, digital channels, e.g. AA1000 and the GRI-G4 frameworks that the stakeholder horse must pull the crowdsourcing of ideas is a common technique used in IT companies.Therefore, materiality cart and not the other way around and therefore the stakeholder materiality determination should also take advantage of this. format is more appropriate for balanced, transparent reporting. The examples of top material aspects cited above are relatively medium to longMateriality Context: term priority areas i.e. they will be achieved over a period of time, and will remain priority areas in the foreseeable future. Sustainability issues are, more often than The transformational nature of the global IT sector is fueled by the revival that not, long term issues, e.g. climate change, and in the nature of foundational the global economic environment is witnessing. India is one of the most visible, principles e.g. diversity is good. Hence, once we define a set of issues that are most high-growth and competitive IT markets, and Indian IT majors are expected to material, it is not necessary to revise them frequently, even if the industry sustain and improve their positions, as key generators of employment and transformation takes place at a more dynamic pace. economic growth. IT Services is a people-centric and talent-intensive sector, and people issues determine a large part of the materiality map.The global nature of 10 Report Profile and Assurance Approach Who are our stakeholders ? Spotlight : Materiality Determination Defining who an organization’s primary stakeholders are can be relatively Sustainability reporting cannot happen in a vacuum and should be a faithful straightforward within the business ecosystem but when it comes to larger social reflection of an organization’s values, vision, plans and progress on the different and environmental contexts, the meaning of stakeholders can assume a form that dimensions of sustainability aspects. Determining the most material issues to is unduly large or amorphous…..and yet, faithful engagement with important include in this report stems from multiple dimensions of risk, returns and social and ecological issues requires that the voice of these collectives be relevance to Wipro, the IT Services industry and to all our stakeholders. discerned and heard. Our eight identified stakeholders are Our materiality determination framework is driven by what issues hold more i. Employees importance for our stakeholders. Our seven sustainability stakeholders are ii. Customers iii. Investors ix. Employees iv. Suppliers x. Current and Future Generations v. The Education ecosystem : Partners and Academic Institutes xi. Customers vi. Communities and Civil Society Networks xii. Investors vii. Government and Policy Networks xiii. Suppliers viii. The Young Citizen and Future Generations xiv. Community Readers may notice a slight change in the names of some of these stakeholders as xv. Government, Policy makers (including Regulatory bodies) well as in the number of stakeholders (an increase from 7 to 8). In this regard, let The identification and relative prioritization of material issues is based on a us clarify that till the previous reporting year, our practice was to ‘club’ the combination of the following three factors. Further, it is important to recognize ‘Education Ecosystem’ and ‘Community’ stakeholders as one even though they that these issues and their relative importance are not static and are likely to are distinct.Therefore, from the current reporting year, we are splitting this into change with time. two stakeholders as articulated above. However, it may be noted that in our report sequence, the programs on ‘Education’ and ‘Community Care’ will continue to be under one section, 5g. We have renamed the stakeholder ‘Current and Future Generations’ as ‘The Young Citizen and Future Generations’ as the phrase ‘current generations’ does not adequately capture the centrality of our planetary actions to the lives of the current generation of children and young adult who will have to live through and negotiate any adverse environmental impacts in a few decades from now. Report Profile and Assurance Approach 11 a. Direct feedback from the stakeholder b. Risk assessment Studies: a. Employees: i.Supply chain: The employee stakeholder engagement and materiality determination scope In association with two UK based organisations – Trucost and Fronesys, we extends to all categories of employees i.e. permanent, retainer and contract completed a preliminary environmental and social risk profiling of our IT services employees. People aspects covered in client assessments are also incorporated in and IT products divisions. The ‘Ethical Supply Chain’ section in this report this. Stakeholder interests are determined by a collective analysis of feedback contains more details of the same. We also have commissioned two studies on received via: supply chain maturity in our waste management program.These studies coupled with increasing interest from investors (through disclosure frameworks) and ? Employee Perception Surveys indicate the key drivers that affect customers though information requests and assessments has led to supply chain engagement, as well as the relative importance of these to employees, based being recognised as a key engagement area in the sustainability journey. The on the engagement scores. services business, unlike manufacturing, does not rely on deep and complex ? Analysis of suggestions received via the Employee Advocacy Group forum. supply chain networks and hence the environmental footprint of our supply chain ? Exit interview feedback. is not material. The people supply chain comprises of knowledge workers who ? Analysis of concerns received and addressed by the Ombudsprocess. are empowered and have various engagement avenues for feedback and redressal, ? Types of concerns discussed with ‘mitr’ (counseling) volunteers. hence aspects like Human Rights and Labour Practices are factors that pose ? Key aspects studied in (external) sustainability assessments. relatively lower risk, and hence may be considered lower in the materiality assessment. . b. Customers: However these same factors have overarching and strategic importance for our Customer Satisfaction is evaluated at various frequencies –annually for all operations and support services supply chain. Hence we have rated this as being customers; in addition quarterly for key/focus accounts, at the end of closure of a of more than medium importance to both Wipro and stakeholders and is hence project and at key milestones etc. Most of these are tool administered and the placed in the 1st Quadrant. annual and quarterly CSAT’s are third party administered. Service delivery and ii.Natural Resources: Product Quality is a key aspect which directly impacts customer retention and business growth. For all employees, working across different customer projects, From a study we conducted in the proximate areas of two of our large campus customer satisfaction is a key objective. areas located in water stressed areas, we recognize the central issue of water sustainability for Wipro as well as the community around our campuses. 12 Report Profile and Assurance Approach c. Disclosure Frameworks Materiality – Ecological /Economic goals Frameworks: Investor backed disclosure frameworks like Dow Jones Economic Climate Relative Relevance to Wipro Sustainability (DJSI) , Carbon Disclosure Project (CEP) and Oekom provide High Product/Services useful templates for self-assessment. All these frameworks publish Quality Climate Change Resource rating/assessment score card across key dimensions and some like Oekom Efficiency undertake one-on-one dialogues with responding companies and provide Biodiversity Public Policy Pollution detailed commentary on the assessment. Medium d. Indirect inference Economic Disclosures from public sources of information e.g. expert NGO and think tank reports Public Benefit e. Informed dialog and discussion between Wipro leaders and employees in meetings, open houses, blogs etc. Low Medium High Stakeholder’s interest A detailed delineation of the primary sustainability issues for each of the above stakeholders is available in Section 5 of the report. Materiality – Social / Human Rights Relative Relevance to Wipro The distilled outcomes of the above processes are represented in the two People matrices below – one for Social and Human Rights and the other for Ecological & High Development Economic factors.The materiality of a particular sustainability dimension is based Voice of Community Stakeholder on the combination of two criteria – The Stakeholders’ interest in the issue and Engagement its Relevance / Priority to Wipro’s IT Business. Health Diversity & Safety The 19 sustainability dimensions–are really an aggregate of more granular Medium parameters and factors that are part of the GRI framework.The Annexure at the Supply Chain end of this chapter details out the correlation between each of the19 dimensions Human Rights / Labor Practices and multiple GRI indicators. Freedom of Association Anti-Corruption Low Medium High Stakeholder’s interest Report Profile and Assurance Approach 13 The 10 most material issues for this year remain the same as enumerated in the growth of our sustainability program, which has helped us in developing a deeper last report – these are those in the Top-Right quadrant of the two matrices and understanding of various aspects and issues, and more clarity on the changes we reflect high relevance for both Wipro and its stakeholders could make in our approach. One example of a change we could make is to contextualize material dimensions more closely with geographical i.e. define i. Product and Service Stewardship specific material dimensions in terms of a country’s context. ii. People Development iii. Employee Health and Safety Secondly, we intend to present a more granular view of stakeholders view specific iv. Economic Climate dimensions. While a dimension may be relevant to most or all stakeholders, it is v. Voice of the stakeholder interpreted differently across stakeholder groups in terms of context, issues and vi. Climate Change required actions. vii. Resource Efficiency viii. Pollution Consider two examples to illustrate this point: ix. Diversity 1. Gender Inclusion: is a factor that would be interpreted differently by x. Community Engagement internal and external stakeholders. Within Wipro, the focus is on fostering greater gender equity and inclusion in the talent life-cycle. An external These 10 sustainability dimensions – and the balance eight as well – are covered in stakeholder such as the Community would have different expectations, detail in the rest of this report where we articulate Wipro's vision, goals and namely, education of the girl child, women’s health, access to gainful performance on these. employment and financial independence. 2. Water: is an area that is a today a global concern and priority. However, Announcement of change and transition there are differences in how we approach this in our current efforts.Within Wipro, our corporate program has greater focus on water recycling and to new materiality framework efficiency. Our external Responsible Water program in Bangalore, however, is contextualized to the city’s groundwater situation and the risks arising from it.The program is a collaborative effort by several stakeholder groups, The materiality framework described above was adopted by us right from the including citizens. The approach is informed by scientific approach and the inception of our sustainability journey and finds place in every one of our overall objective of the program is to evolve a new decentralized, citizen-led sustainability reports. But as our programs have matured and our engagements approach to the governance of water in the context of a large Indian city. have gained depth and breadth, we have felt the need to revisit and recalibrate our Therefore, in early 2014, we have begun the process of reviewing our materiality materiality framework. A key reason for this is that the larger sustainability framework and changing it as strategically appropriate.We will start reporting as context has changed and progressed significantly over the last six years – per the new framework from our 2014-15 report onwards; however, we present stakeholders’ perceptions and expectations have changed and assessments of below a summary and the salient highlights of the new framework. sustainability risks and opportunities have transformed. Another reason is the 14 Report Profile and Assurance Approach The driving principles Our modified materiality framework will incorporate the following driving principles : A new set of parameters that is more representative of the multiple environmental, social and governance dimensions that are relevant to Wipro 1 as a company and to the IT Services sector. For example,‘Data Privacy’ – which does not figure in our current materiality framework – is central to an IT company like ours from at least two perspectives : (a) Commitment to protecting the privacy of customer, employee and supplier data is Incorporation of new elements: a basic ethical practice going beyond contractual obligations and (b) For companies that have access to sensitive information about individuals, ensuring the privacy of such data is important to the dignity of the individual The conventional materiality matrix typically places issues based on relevance to the company and relevance to stakeholders; however, given that 2 a company will have multiple stakeholders who are often very different in the roles that they play, it makes little sense to talk about ‘stakeholder relevance’ unless it is mapped to the next level of detail to the individual stakeholder. For example: ‘Water’ is a sustainability issue that is of far Individual greater relevance to the proximate community of Wipro than to its suppliers.Therefore, in our new framework, we will define and map material stakeholder view: dimensions materiality mapping at the level of the individual stakeholder. The exercise of trying to rank-order a list of sustainability issues and place them appropriately in a 2 X 2 matrix is a flawed one. Often, the 3 difference in scores between two parameters is too trivial to justify a rank-ordering. It is much more useful to classify issues in ‘clusters’ that are Ranking replaced based on a combination of domain, stakeholder and relative prioritization. The clusters will by themselves not be the sole basis for resource by Clustering: allocation and budgeting but will be seen more as a useful template to base one’s planning and implementation goals. In the conventional materiality matrix of ‘Relevance to Wipro’ and ‘Relevance to Stakeholders’, certain critical sustainability issues may not score 4 high on either of the dimensions. Examples are Biodiversity, Disability or Open Source.And yet, they have an intrinsic worth that compels serious Intrinsic worth: and deep engagement.Therefore, our new framework will look at all these three factors. Report Profile and Assurance Approach 15 The Way Forward Materiality Recalibration Process & Steps We have embarked on the materiality revision process, to take a fresh look at the material dimensions and recalibrate them afresh, without assumptions or predetermined notions. The process is an expansive one, and we will engage with Redefine universe Arrive at revised Program and of materiality materiality priority Response Planning multiple stakeholders, separately as well as collectively, so as to get individual and dimensions matrix (July 2015) (July – August 2015) – List all group perspectives. The two visuals below summarize the steps involved in the materiality calibration process, along with a shortlist of high priority materiality dimensions. The initiative will take us most of the current calendar year, and Poll key external promises to be an enriching experience.This report is a bridging report, in which We are Invite core internal stakeholders (clients Communication we are sharing a preview of our transition to a new framework. Our next report here stakeholders to and community) on (August 2015 ‘score’ each relevant materiality onwards) would contain the results of this transition and the new framework. dimension dimensions’ (May – June 2015) Poll larger group of Publish results internal stakeholders to surveyed group to arrive at ‘ranked shortlist.’ (Mar – Apr 2015) Poll larger group of Prepare a shortlist internal stakeholders of high priority to arrive at ‘ranked materiality shortlist.’ dimensions (Mar – Apr 2015) (Feb 2015) Completed Immediate next step In process Future steps 16 Report Profile and Assurance Approach Shortlist of High Priority Materiality Dimensions People: Employees Environment and and Communities (S) Ecology (E) ? Water ? Well-being, Health and Safety ? Energy and Carbon Reduction ? Knowledge, Education & Skills ? Urban Resilience development ? Biodiversity ? Gender ? Human and Labor Rights ? Disability ? Connectedness Corporate Governance and Ethical Business Conduct (G) ? Ethical Business Conduct ? Disclosures and Transparency ? Privacy Protection ? IT Security ? Board structure and independence ? Government policy ? Accounting for externalities ? Open Source Report Profile and Assurance Approach 17 1541 AD, Amazon The Transforming Amazon River The Amazon River was once a transcontinental river in the Miocene Epoch between 11.8 million and 11.3 million years ago. It took its present shape approximately 2.4 million years ago. If one goes by the geological clock, the desire to control the Amazon is relatively new. For the basin of the world’s longest river has been inhabited for ten thousand years — by tribes, both big and small. Foreigners came in 1541 and yet it was only when the value of natural latex was realised that the world turned its eyes to the Amazon. The demand continues to be high, with Brazil controlling the world rubber monopoly. In an effort to secure this control, the government is building roads through the jungles of Amazon today, causing widespread deforestation in the process. As the tree cover thins, the waters of the Amazon keep dwindling. ? With widespread deforestation, the dense Amazonian forest cover is thinning Organizational Profile 3.Organizational Profile 3 Our Business successive year. Today we are a trusted partner of choice for global businesses looking for technology interventions. Wipro Ltd (NYSE:WIT; NSE: WIPRO) is a global information technology, consulting and outsourcing company with more than 150,000 workforce serving In today’s world, organizations will have to rapidly reengineer themselves and be 1000+ clients, including a number of Fortune 500 and Global 500 corporations in more responsive to changing customer needs. Wipro is well positioned to be a 175+ cities across 6 continents.The company posted revenues of $7.3 billion for partner and co-innovator to businesses in their transformation journey, identify the financial year ended Mar 31, 2014. new growth opportunities and facilitate their foray into new sectors and markets by delivering technology driven business outcomes. With a track record of over 25 years,Wipro's business success has been driven by keeping the customer at the core of everything it does. Combining its deep Our Values expertise in technology with an equally clear understanding of customer The Spirit of Wipro represents the core values of Wipro framed around these industries, Wipro attempts to deliver business value to customers consistently. Corporate Governance principles and practices. It encapsulates the values which The consistency is driven by our pioneering efforts in service quality and are the guiding principle for our culture and behavior in Wipro. The Spirit is predictability, through methodologies like Six Sigma, PCMM and Lean. The rooted in current reality, but it also represents what Wipro aspires to be hence underlying tenets that drive this overall culture are that of speed, simplicity and making it future ready.They bind us together and inspire us to achieve excellence excellence. in whatever we do. Wipro helps customers do business better by leveraging our industry-wide experience, deep technology expertise, comprehensive portfolio of services and Make customers successful vertically aligned business model. Our 55+ dedicated ‘Centers of Excellence’ Intensity to Win Team, innovate and excel enable us to harness the latest technology for delivering business capability to our clients. Respect for the individual Wipro is globally recognized for its innovative approach towards delivering Act with Sensitivity Thoughtful and responsible business value and its commitment to sustainability.Wipro champions optimized utilization of natural resources, capital and talent. In 2014,Wipro was recognized as global leader in the software & service category, member of the Dow Jones Delivering on commitments Unyielding Integrity Sustainability World Indices for the fifth year in a row.Wipro was also named as a Honesty and fairness in action World's Most Ethical Company 2014 by Ethisphere Institute for the third Organizational Profile 21 Our Milestones Our Strategic Business Units and Service Lines Wipro, one of the world's most trusted brands, is a name with a long history. Here's a snapshot of our journey to date: Wipro continues to invest significant resources in understanding and prioritizing industry verticals. Our IT Services business segment is organized into six 2013 strategic business units by customer industry. INDUSTRY VERTICALS 2000 Retail, Consumer Health, Life Packaged Goods, Global Media Sciences and Transportation and telecom Services and Government Energy, Natural 1984 Banking, Financial Manufacturing Resources, Utilities and Services and and Hi-Tech Enguneering and Insurance Construction 1980 1945 Business Application Services Advanced Technology Solutions SERVICES Business Consulting Product Engineering Solutions Business Process Outsourcing Global Infrastructure Services 1945 --Incorporation of Western India Vegetable Products Ltd Wipro’s service offerings are aligned with the technology needs of our 1980 --Wipro enters the IT Hardware Business customers.While our focus is on being a strategic provider of IT Services and the system integrator of choice, we also provide IT Products as a complement to our 1984 --Wipro enters the IT Software Business IT Services offerings. In the India and Middle -East markets, we are a leading 2000 --Wipro Listed in the NYSE and enters the BPO Business provider of system integration services where we provide a full suite of services 2013 --Wipro Ltd demerges its ‘Diversified Business” into a separate such as hardware solutions, software licenses and services. To fulfill system company to be named ‘Wipro Enterprises Ltd.’ Wipro Ltd. to integration projects, we provide IT hardware and software licenses. focus exclusively on IT Business 22 Organizational Profile Our Presence Global Delivery Centers, BPO and Sales Offices Asia Pacific & 49.8% Americas 29.4% Europe 8.6% India & ME 12.2% Other Emerging Markets Organizational Profile 23 Our Accomplishments Sustainability Awards: Business Innovation and Excellence Awards: ? Wipro selected as a member of Dow Jones Sustainability Index World for ? Wipro ranks 12th in the Interbrand's 'Best Indian Brands' study, 2014. the 5th time in a row. Also recognized as the global sector leader for the ? Wipro won 3 Awards at Info Security's 10th Annual Global Excellence software and services industry. Awards 2014 ? Wipro recognized as world leader 2014 for corporate action on climate ? Wipro Limited recognized as Champion of Women's Empowerment change by CDP. Principles with 2014 Leadership Award ? Wipro is recognized by the Ethisphere Institute, a leading business ethics ? Wipro recognized with the prestigious Golden Peacock Award 2014, in the think-tank, as one of the World's Most Ethical (WME) 2014 Companies, for category of 'Innovative Product / Service' for Wipro's Assure Health™ the third year in a row. solution ? Member of MSCI Global Sustainability index series and Global Socially ? Wipro recognized as a winner of the Global, Asian and Indian MAKE (Most Responsible Investment index series. Admired Knowledge Enterprise) awards for 2013 ? Wipro featured in the Greenpeace Cool IT Leaderboard rankings for the ? Wipro recognized as a best in class outsourcing and consulting service third consecutive year. Ranked 5th in 2013. provider for 2014 by ‘Consumer Goods Technology’ Readers ? Wipro Limited has been selected for inclusion in the new UN Global ? Wipro honored with CIO Choice 2014 recognitions for Managed IT Compact 100 stock index. Services, Enterprise Infrastructure Automation Services and Managed ? Wipro Ltd. earned “Sustainable Plus”, the world's first Corporate Security Services. Sustainability Label by Confederation of Indian Industry (CII). ? Wipro won the Gold award at ITSMA, 2013 under the category 'Marketing ? Wipro rated as Prime B+ by Oekom, leading European Sustainability rater: with Social & Digital Media' Wipro ranked global No#1 for the IT Services sector in 2013. ? Wipro won the CIO-100 2013 Award ? Wipro bags ESCAP-Sasakawa Award for Disability-Inclusive Business ? Global Telecoms Business recognizes Nokia Siemens Networks and Wipro (multinational enterprise category). with the ‘Wholesale Service Innovation Award 2013’ for their unique IT R&D Partnership Project. ? American Society for Quality recognizes Wipro BPO with the Best Project with Organizational Impact award. 24 Organizational Profile Key Organizational Metrics Good Governance and Management Practices Key Financial Metrics 2010-2011 2011-2012 2012-2013 2013-2014 An organization’s economic and social license to operate depends on the soundness of its governance and management practices. The visual below Revenue (Rs. Billion)* 271.437 318.747 374.256 434.269 showing the organizational architecture of Wipro illustrates this point – most of Profit After Tax (Rs. Billion)* 50.270 52.568 61.684 78.405 the boxes reflect a long-term orientation that a company needs to assiduously Total Capitalization build and ingrain into its DNA. (Rs. Billion) 293.173 345.121 348.799 396.478 Equity (Rs. Billion) 240.371 286.163 284.983 344.886 GOVERNANCE AND MANAGEMENT ARCHITECTURE AT WIPRO Debt (Rs. Billion) 52.802 58.958 63.816 51.592 Strategic Planning Operational Planning Regular reviews by Board and CEC Total Assets (Rs. Billion) 371.443 436.001 439.730 502.304 PEOPLE Continuous Empowered Leadership Diversity & learning workplace development Inclusivity Other Metrics Environment, Information POLICIES People health, safety security Procurement Number of shareholders 220,238 227,158 213,603 210,471 PROCESSES Talent supply Global delivery Wividus Continuous chain model backoffice internal audit Number of Employees 130,145 138,164 134,541 159,000** Governance Practices Sustainability ? Enterprise risk ? Innovation ? Resource and cost management ? Quality efficiency ? OBC ? Customer advocacy ? Ecological footprint Note: ? Ombuds-process ? Global transformation reduction ? Board governance ? Knowledge management ? Education and community * Revenue and PAT from continuing operations only ? Internal audits ? Business process ? Transparent disclosures ** Figures are only for core employees in IT business. Does not include partner management employees, retainers and support service workforce. Organizational Profile 25 Risk Management Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) is a leveraged function that works in close During the year, two new dimensions were added to the Risk Management Model co-ordination with Business teams, Legal, Finance, Human Resources, Quality, to identify and prioritize the critical risks: office of the CIO, Delivery, Internal Audit and other Functional teams. It is expected to enable and support Wipro in achieving business objectives through Stakeholder Mapping: Expectations of each stakeholder (Direct and ? risk-intelligent assessment and mitigation mechanisms while providing Indirect) on key risk areas specifically with the lens of reputation risks was reassurance to all stakeholders including Customers, Shareholders and done and the Top Risk Map for 2014-15 was enhanced. Employees by way of: Enhanced Impact Type: Top Risk Map has been enhanced from the ? traditional “Probability Impact grid” to Velocity of Impact and Persistence of Identifying, assessing and mitigating risks within key business and functional ? Impact retaining both dimensions to identify the critical risks which need processes through collaborative approach management attention. Nurturing and building the culture of risk management and compliance ? across the organization Risk Management areas for the year Leverage technology and tools for continuous improvement and become ? Operational the Benchmark in risk management Cyber Security Efficiency and Speed Become a function of choice for Delivery and Functional Leadership ? development Corporate Behavior Predictable and Governance Financial Performance Audit Committee Governance of the Board Execution of Strategy Regulatory am ew Oversight Tone Compliance ork Information Security, / fr @ The Top Co s Intellectual Property Framework ou Corporate po nu and Data Privacy Management licy nti ERM Team Service Delivery vem plo y Standard ERM Framework pro de nd People. Process, Technology Im Innovation in Services De ent Stakeholder vel Communication Risk op SBU’s and a Ownership RISK MANAGEMENT function IT Systems and Operational Resilience Workplace Identification Analysis Evaluate Treatment Monitoring Environment RISK CATEGORIES and Culture Management Vision Governance Strategic Operational Compliance Reporting and Leadership Stability 26 Organizational Profile The above mentioned are broad categories of risks identified. Sustainability & Major Risk Management and Risk Mitigation Initiatives climate change related risks are included under “Corporate behavior and governance” and are assessed as having low probability of occurrence and ? Business Continuity and Disaster Recovery Focus areas for the year medium impact in the near to medium term. included enhancing the business continuity and disaster recovery planning by preparing account specific plans, testing them through drills and including Climate change risks are assessed both at the organization and at the asset level in them for review with the customer. terms of risks to business continuity and to our financial parameters e.g. ? The Business continuity planning includes environmental risks Revenues , Profitability etc.The assessment is done for Short, Medium and Long weather changes, pandemic outbreaks, floods and other events. The risk term time horizons (3 to 6 years) where each of these risk factors is assessed for assessment procedure provides guidelines for identification of risks across identified outcomes, probability of outcomes and magnitude of impact.The risks different categories. The Minimum Infrastructure & Facilities Availability' at the company level are driven by reputational, regulations related, fuel and built into the planning informs account and business teams of the current energy taxes related, physical climate and reputational factors. minimum capability/capacity , mitigation inbuilt in case of emergency The two risk assessment informed studies we initiated are the natural capital situations and process for additional support in the event of an emergency. assessment and the location operations-water vulnerability risk study (also This covers facilities, travel, communication, health and safety among others. referred to as the Responsible Water Study. The natural capital assessment ? Cyber Security Assessment of Cyber Security risks in present day world provides a comprehensive assessment of different environmental impacts indicates threat of persistent attacks, malware and related risks. During the (emissions, water abstraction, pollution and waste, land use change) across our year, we had taken up a strong counter measure by augmenting our operations and the extended supply chain. The responsible water program monitoring and analysis infrastructure along with new technology to identify provides location level maturity indicators that integrate quantitative metrics like and stop attacks and advanced threats. responsible siting and water sustainability metric including qualitative survey ? Integrated Risk Management We launched an organization wide based inputs on knowledge, inclusiveness and transparency. program ( BPE), to simplify and transform our critical business processes to A group of executive MBA students from Georgetown University used the mitigate the risk arising out of un-scalable, discrete processes.The initiative Dogra-Srivastava Framework for Climate Change and Health outcomes and has touched close to 400 processes across Record to Report, Hire to Retire, tried to correlate linkages of increase in precipitation and humidity to increase in Source to Pay and Order to Cash.The gaps and opportunities identified are instances of communicable diseases, like Malaria, over a four year period for a city being addressed with IT fixes and infusion of new technology, where in India. The study has helped inform ways in which we can integrate climate required. The critical changes are already functional and have helped in change and sustainability with operational and people risks in the risk operational effectiveness and risk mitigation. management framework. ? Intellectual Property Protection Focus on Intellectual Property risk management continued during the year.The controls were further subjected Organizational Profile 27 to an independent stress testing for assessing implementation effectiveness. Corporate Governance Employee Health and Safety Transportation and Physical Security: ? Employee safety continued as a core focus with enhanced measures for transportation process (24*7 operations). Employee survey, spot audits Wipro has a long legacy of pioneering and maintain good governance practices. were rolled out to continuously test the robustness of the process. The picture given below gives an overview of our systems and practices. Large Program Deal to Delivery: A Risk Management framework has ? Board committees ? Annual General Meeting (AGM) ? been deployed for large value deals to assess solution fitness, credit risks, Board diversity ? Shareholders Satisfaction Survey ? financial risks and technology risks among other risk factors. Risks are Assessment of board effectiveness ? Quality and frequency of ? Lead independent director(s) ? communication with investors / assessed and mitigated upfront at the deal stage and tracked during delivery analysts of the engagement. Web based query redressal system ? Proactive anti-fraud Initiatives Rule based anomaly detection systems ? were continued as pro-active measure to identify red flags and treat failure SHA D GO REH modes.Anomaly Rule books were designed in certain processes identified as AR NCE VE O B RNA RN O critical. During the year, pilot automation of the Anomaly rule systems was GO E ER V LD NCE done using Big Data analytics tools. A Stress testing Controls in four key areas were stress tested to assess ? rigor in process controls and enhance the process robustness: a) People CORPORATE movement to high risk countries b) Cyber Security c) Data Privacy and d) GOVERNANCE Information Security Awareness and Training Role based training programs to enhance risk ? literacy covering Intellectual Property practices, information security compliance, risk management in large bids, delivery risk management, Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and UK Bribery Act compliance were Code of business conduct ? Compliance oversight ? conducted. Educational newsletters and case studies were also regularly and ethics Prevention of insider ? Code of conduct for ? trading published. principal finance officers SOX compliance ? Spirit of Wipro ? Ombuds process for both employees ? and non-employees Online portal for registering and ? tracking complaints 28 Organizational Profile In Wipro, our General Counsel is also the Chief Ombuds-person who works with Code of Business Conduct designated Ombuds-persons in each Business Unit. The process ensures confidential and anonymous submissions regarding Wipro has a corporation wide Code of Business Conduct (COBC) that provides the broad direction as well as specific guidelines for all business transactions.The ? questionable accounting or auditing matters, the conduct of which results in emphasis is on human rights, prevention of fraudulent and corrupt practices, a violation of law by Wipro freedom of association, elimination of child and forced labor, advertisement and ? substantial mismanagement of company resources media policy, avoidance of conflict of interest, prevention of sexual harassment ? Any instance of sexual harassment or any other form of discrimination and unyielding integrity at all times. The COBC is applicable to all business ? Any violation of human rights as articulated in the COBC and as per the practices and employees, contractor employees and consultants. An updated principles of the U. N. Global Compact. COBC was launched in 13-14, with emphasis on readability and key tenets being In 2011-12, the Ombuds portal was upgraded with a 24/7 multilingual hotline made accessible through a Q&A format. facility for ease of access in logging concerns as well as access via web at The updated code can be accessed at www.wipro.com/investors/corporatewww.wipro.com. In 2013-14, a total of 787complaints were received via the governance.The COBC is socialized at multiple points of an employee’s lifecycle Ombuds process and the action taken cases as of March 2014 was 95%. Based on it is first covered as part of the induction program of new hires and subsequently, self-disclosure data, 68% of these were from employees and the balance were every employee has to take an online test annually to assert his familiarity with the tenets of the COBCE. We have a zero tolerance policy for non-compliance Break-up of Complaints received through the Ombuds Process with the non-negotiable aspects of COBC e.g. child labor, anti-corruption etc. Types Types of Complaint of Complaint 2013 14 2012 13 2011 12 TED / HR / People Process 43% 42% 46% The Ombuds-process COBCE / Security Policy 7% 6% 7% 13 Having a robust whistleblower policy that employees and other stakeholders can Harassment – Sexual 12% 9% 11% use without fear or apprehension is a sine non qua for a transparent and ethical Falsification or Destruction of Information 8% 9% 7% company.Wipro’s Ombuds process is designed to be this and more. It allows and Harassment – Workplace 19% 21% 20% encourages any affected stakeholder to report breaches of the COBC and any other matter of integrity to the concerned Ombuds-person. In conjunction with Others 11% 15% 9% the Prevention of Sexual Harassment policy, the Ombuds process provides a TOTAL 100% 100% 100% strong framework of assurance and protection to women employees. Total Number of Complaints 787 795 728 Organizational Profile 29 Type of Complaint ActionTypes 2013 14 2012 13 ReporterTypes of Complaint FY(13-14) FY(12-13) Separation 11% 10% Employee 539 524 Warning Letter 10% 11% Anonymous 170 177 13 Counseling / Advisory 20% 25% Others 49 60 Process/Policy Change 1% 5% Vendor 16 17 Benefits Granted 15% 21% Contractor 9 13 Others 43% 27% Customer 4 4 TOTAL 100% 100% GRAND TOTAL 787 795 Sustainability Governance Sexual Harrassment Action Taken The centrality of Sustainability to Wipro’s vision and outlook is reflected in the ActionTypes Type of Complaint 2013 14 2012 13 commitment and engagement with sustainability issues by Wipro’s leadership team, starting with our Chairman. The Chief Sustainability Officer (CSO) who Separation 23% 27% carries overarching responsibility for our sustainability charter reports to the Warning Letter 33% 27% Chairman and is part of the Corporate Executive Council, the senior most 13 Counselling 22% 22% executive body in the organization.The strength of our sustainability governance is also derived from the fact that multiple functions see themselves as key Others 22% 24% stakeholders in its success; among these, the Global Operations team, the People TOTAL 100% 100% Function, the Investor Relations team and the Legal team play a major role in several of the programs. The sustainability program is reviewed on a quarterly basis by the Chairman and the Corporate Executive Council. For other details on Corporate Governance – including the governance structure, mechanisms, composition of board, board sub-committees, etc. please refer to the Corporate Governance section of this Annual Report. http://www.wipro.com/annualreport/2013-14/ 30 Organizational Profile Diversity of our governance Bodies Experience diversity of Wipro's Corporate Executive Council (CEC) Our topmost governance bodies comprise of Board of Directors and Corporate Executive Council (CEC). We value the diversity of our governance bodies as it provides different perspectives on various issues on account of their varied backgrounds and experience in managing businesses across a spectrum of Experience in Wipro industries. The table below provides the slices of the diversity of the above governing bodies. Experience No. of Members 2 Tenure in Wipro Board > 20 years 4 3 Duration 0-5 years 5-10 years >10 years Total 10-20 years 2 No. of Directors 5 3 5 13 0-10 years 0 Experience Diversity of the Board Total 6 Category No. of Directors Former CEO's FMCG 2 Former CEO's Technology 3 Former CEO's Financial Services 1 Legal 1 Academia & Consultant 2 Government, Diplomat 1 Executive Management 3 Total 13 Organizational Profile 31 Present day, Central & Eastern Europe The Danube has seen the rise and fall of many empires Once an invincible frontier for the mighty Roman Empire, the Danube today forms the boundaries of eight different European countries. It is the longest river of the European Union, rising in the Black Forest mountains of Germany and fowing for almost 3,000 km before it fnally drains into the Black Sea. While the Rhine has always been given economic precedence over the Danube, the latter did support the growth of two major empires: the Austrian and Hungarian. ? Illustration showing the combat between Russian and Turkish forces on the Danube in 1854, during the Crimean War (1853–1856) Wipro’s Sustainability Strategy Perspective 4.Wipro’s Sustainability Strategy Perspective 4 Preamble crises, pandemic, chronic diseases, income disparity, antibiotic-resistant bacteria, mismanaged urbanization and political and social instability as major risks faced A thriving global society, now and in the future, depends on the stable functioning by the world. of all interacting components of the Earth System – the atmosphere, oceans, forests, waterways, biodiversity and biogeochemical cycles. Unfortunately, Seen in this context, 2015 is expected to a pivotal year in the history of scientific evidence indicates that human influence has altered Earth System sustainable development. This was the target year for achieving the Millennium processes to a point that we have begun transgressing planetary boundaries that Development Goals (MDG) (http://www.unmillenniumproject.org/goals/ ) set in have kept civilization safe for the past 10,000 years. Scientists claim that we 2000. In the 14 years since the launch, several MDG targets have been met well have entered a new geological epoch ‘the Anthropocene’ characterized by ahead of the deadline. For example, extreme poverty in the world was reduced by manmade actions interfering and changing the environment. half. The Millennium Development Goals Report, 2014 says that despite substantial progress made in most areas, much more efforts are needed to reach The changes in the Earth system can be understood through the framework of the set targets. The continuing upward trend in global emissions of carbon nine planetary boundaries whose thresholds should not be exceeded. Proposed dioxide (CO2), loss of forest cover and renewable water sources are some of the by a team led by Johan Rockstrom at the Stockholm Resilience Centre, it shows issues still threatening the sustainability agenda. The world has undertaken to that at least three planetary boundaries have been transgressed (rate of conclude negotiations on three critical areas by the end of 2015: the new biodiversity loss, climate change, and human interference with the nitrogen cycle), Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), a new framework for global sustainable while some are at risk of being surpassed (freshwater use, land-system change, development financing, and a new climate change agreement at the COP 21 in and ocean acidification). Paris. . Poverty eradication, changing unsustainable and promoting sustainable While the world income (GDP per capita) has increased exponentially over the patterns of consumption and production and protecting and managing the natural past century, income inequality did decrease till the 70’s-80’s and is now showing resource base of economic and social development are the overarching a rebound to levels seen near the beginning of the century(IMF).According to the objectives of and essential requirements of the proposed fourteen SDG’s. COP Millenium Development Goals Report 2014, about a billion people will be living in 21 will aim to achieve a legally binding and universal agreement on reducing extreme poverty in 2015.A quarter of all children under the age of five years were greenhouse gas emissions to limit the global temperature increase to 2 degrees estimated to be stunted. Every day in 2013, 32,000 people had to abandon their Celsius above pre-industrial levels climate, from all world nations. homes to seek protection due to conflict. 781 million adults and 126 million youth No country or government can attempt to solve these complex problems worldwide lack basic literacy skills, and more than 60 per cent of them are without business coming on board as willing partners in this journey – by bringing women. The World Economic Forum’s Global Risk Report 2015 identifies food technology, ingenuity, enterprise, building capacities and creating markets for Wipro’s Sustainability Strategy Perspective 35 development of sustainable alternatives. In this, business has to collaborate with What follows is an articulation of the eight sustainability megaforces and the all stakeholders across its value chain and with the community to transition to a business sectors role on these dimensions. future that is equitable to all stakeholders and is cognizant of interdependent issues and planetary boundaries. Business and the Sustainability Megaforces Current Scenario Business Implications Climate change The fifth assessment report of IPCC asserts with greater certainty that Businesses may come across a multitude of risks and opportunities related climate change is a reality.The report says that “the atmosphere and ocean to climate change. The risks include increased energy and other resource have warmed, the amounts of snow and ice have diminished, sea level has costs (water, food – inflation etc.) and insurance costs related to extreme risen, and the concentrations of greenhouse gases have increased” and and adverse climate events; and potential future litigation, claims and legal “human influence on the climate system is evident from the increasing action. Opportunities are in the field of emission trading, carbon credits, greenhouse gas concentrations in the atmosphere, positive radiative carbon offsetting or ecofriendly technologies or products like hybrid cars forcing, observed warming, and understanding of the climate system”. and renewable energy; process improvements that can save energy and Climate change can directly or indirectly lead to hunger, water scarcity, reduce GHG and enhanced brand value and reputation.The opportunities health problems, and poverty over varying time frames. It can impact are not without challenges – both scientific and political. For example, employment and livelihood opportunities thereby limiting opportunities renewables face energy density, efficiency, scalability and grid integration to access education, housing and energy. It can also cause large scale challenges while offsetting programs like large scale afforestation bring can migration and displacement as a result of climate change related adversely impact other resources due to land use change – like water and emergencies like extreme heat, floods and droughts, tropical storms and biodiversity. changing patterns of infection of diseases. Cost of climate change is very high and inaction can create risks of major disruption to economic and social and herein lays the implications to businesses. Discussions on climate change has moved from ascertaining the probability and estimating risks and costs associated to developing strategies to overcome it. The Fifth Assessment report talks about adaptation and mitigation strategies that need to be implemented. Businesses are expected to play a greater role in implementing those strategies.WRI, CDP and WWF launched ‘ Mind the Science, Mind the Gap’ initiative to develop sector specific methodology to help companies set science based emission reduction targets based on IPCC’s recommendations – what is required by companies across different sectors to limit global temperatures rise by 2 degree centigrade by 2100 from pre-industrial levels. 36 Wipro’s Sustainability Strategy Perspective Current Scenario Business Implications Water Crisis Currently agriculture accounts for 70% of the world’s total freshwater Water scarcity can lead to implementation of stringent policies on water withdrawal and a 19% increase of agricultural water consumption is further reallocations, regulations, and development of water markets that cap expected by 2050. (UN Water, 2014).Water for food is linked to multiple usage and stricter water quality standards. Subsidies will leave way for full factors – population, shift in food consumption patterns (non-local and cost pricing which may increase water prices if efficiency is not achieved. higher protein food) and shift towards mechanization without Agricultural crisis can increase food prices and this along with increased concomitant application of contextualized resources, knowledge and water prices can affect disposable income of consumers. This can impact skills. Urbanisation supported by the increase in tertiary economic profits of businesses and economic growth. activities (services) and industrialization has also contributed to the Water is a commons which has strong/tangible societal and cultural misuse of water resources – primarily driven by the shift to water being connects. The very right of business to operate in a constrained context viewed as one other resource that an external entity (state in most cases) may be challenged in times of scarcity and there will be pressure to is supposed to provide. Climate change is also attributed with changes in implement water saving measures, new processes technologies and precipitation patterns. products to reduce the water foot print by businesses. Disruption in water The UN Water forecasts that 1.8 billion people will be living in countries or supply can directly impact continuity of business operations at a local level. regions with absolute water scarcity and two thirds of the world Consumers are likely to consider water efficient products or from population under water stress conditions by 2025 (UN Water, 2007). companies which are seen as water responsible. World Economic Forum’s Global Risk Report 2015 reflects this problem and identifies water crisis as one of the top high impact and high likelihood risks. Urbanisation Urban living is often associated with better access to employment, Cities are the ecosystems for businesses to access rich and diverse social livelihood, education, health sand other social services as well as greater capital. It can be argued that they have been the centers of economic opportunities for social and cultural participation. It is largely lead by growth since the past few decades and will continue to do so in the future. increased mechanization (labour replacement) in farm/rural sectors and Poor social infrastructure impedes this possibility. While the state will opportunities from industries and service sectors in cities.At present, 54% continue to play a key role in creation of this infrastructure, they suffer of world’s population lives in urban areas, projected to reach 66% by 2050 from significant knowledge and governance deficits. Businesses must play (UN, 2014). Nearly 90% of projected increase would come from Asia and an active role here by engaging with local governments and communities to Africa. Most recent and emerging urban areas are low on livability indices. look at solutions for some complex problems. They suffer from haphazard planning which is mostly post facto and reactionary. Often accessibility of basic services becomes an issue for disadvantaged sections of the society, leading to urban inequality and poverty of various social and environmental dimensions. Wipro’s Sustainability Strategy Perspective 37 Current Scenario Business Implications Biodiversity Loss Biodiversity is critical for the proper functioning of ecosystems and A study in 2008 by The Economics of Ecosystems and Biodiversity (TEEB) ensures the delivery of various ecosystem services – from provisioning of has calculated the total annual economic cost of biodiversity loss and clean air, water and food to decomposition of wastes and supporting ecosystem degradation to be between 3.3 – 7.5% of global GDP for the pollination and nutrient cycles. Biodiversity is also an important source of year. No business sector can escape the risks associated with biodiversity flora and fauna with medicinal characteristics. Around 50000 – 70000 plant loss industries; either direct or indirect and remote.The type and extent of species are currently used in or as medicines. exposure to the risk could be different for different industries and the risk exposure would be greater for primary industries such as agriculture, Given the importance of biodiversity for the sustainability and survival of forestry and fishing and secondary industries dependent primarily on humankind, biodiversity loss is found at the nexus of many risks ranging primary produce – fast moving consumer goods (FMCG) for examples. from food price volatility and infectious diseases. Due to the increasing However as per ‘13th Annual Global CEO Survey 2010’ of 1,200 CEOs dependency of man on a reduced amount of biodiversity for food supplies, conducted by PwC, overall business concern regarding biodiversity loss large tracts of biodiverse ecosystems are converted into croplands to was relatively low. 27% of the CEO’s were either ‘extremely’ or ‘somewhat’ ensure short term food security. Scientific studies have found that concerned about biodiversity loss. Hence it is all the more important that cropland expansion is one of the principal causes of biodiversity loss.There businesses actively integrate the social and indirect impacts of biodiversity is also a relationship found between biodiversity loss and soil degradation loss over an extended time horizon. which in long term would affect food production leading to food price volatility. Loss of biodiversity can also amplify environmental issues like coastal flooding and desertification. WWF Living Planet Report reported that globally 1.5 planets are required to support the current lifestyle engaged by human beings and this figure is called the current ecological foot print of mankind (WWF, 2014). Ecological footprint is the sum of biologically productive land and sea required to produce the resources which human beings consumes and to absorb associated wastes and to provide space for infrastructure. More resources are being used than what is capable by Earth to regenerate and more waste is being produced than it is possible for the planet to absorb and this is referred to as ecological overshot. 38 Wipro’s Sustainability Strategy Perspective Current Scenario Business Implications That education is the most powerful force multiplier in the vision of a just, Business must recognize that solving the seemingly intractable problems of Education humane and sustainable society is almost axiomatic. It is one of the eight quality education cannot be the government’s job alone. U.N. MDGs and high on the priorities of most governments and yet As the biggest customer for the education system’s output – employable achieving universal education has proven to be an elusive goal for many talent business must partner with government in addressing the developing countries. challenges of education.This will require a steely willingness to get involved With nearly 35% of children in Class 5 in India not able to read or write, we in a sector where the processes of change are gradual and where outcomes clearly have a long path ahead. This is borne by recent studies: Pratham’s are likely to become visible only over decades Annual Status of Education Report (ASER), the Programme For International Students Assessment (PISA) and the Quality Education Study (QES) by Wipro and Educational Initiatives According to the Millenium Deveopment Goals Report 2014, extreme Businesses action on inclusion has centered on livelihood generation, Inequality & Inclusion poverty has reduced by half in 2010 compared to 2010 figures – a micro credit and low cost technologies for bridging the resource and reduction of 700 million people. The fight against diseases like Malaria, information gaps. While this needs to continue, there is a force multiplier Tuberculosis and HIV in poorer countries has shown good results. effect when diversity and inclusion programs are integrated across their However, a study by the World Institute for Development Economics own operations value chain. The business sector should prioritize Research at United Nations University reports that the richest 1% of commitment to strong and affirmative action to promote diversity and adults alone owned 40% of global assets in the year 2000. The UNDP inclusivity at the workplace and in its extended supply chain. The programs report titled ‘Humanity Divided: Confronting Inequality in Developing Countries’ published in 2013 talks about how income inequality has need to be carefully situated for the specific context – for example, in the significantly increased in many countries during the last two decades.The case of waste handling and recycling in India, which is largely driven by the report says income inequality increased by 11 percent in developing informal sector, a regulatory compliance or performance only approach countries between 1990 and 2010 and more than 75 percent of the may sometimes work against social inclusion, impacting livelihoods. population is living today in societies where income is more unequally distributed than it was in the 1990s.The UNDP report warns that this is a global trend that, if left unchecked, could have dire consequences since it can undermine the very foundations of development and social and domestic peace. Social inequality or discrimination due to gender, nationality/ethnicity and disability further adds to this economic inequality. Diversity as a key engine of innovation and balance has been accepted by social historians and increasingly businesses. Eliminating discrimination and including disadvantaged minorities in mainstream social processes is a crucial driver of more resilient and innovative communities. Empowerment of women, for example, has shown to be closely correlated with variety of social outcomes family planning, the prevention of human rights abuses like child labor, better management of community resources like water and healthier families. Wipro’s Sustainability Strategy Perspective 39 Current Scenario Business Implications World Report 2013 published by Human Rights Watch discusses several Investors, media, consumers and communities, primarily from the Human Rights & instances of human rights violations which happened in the previous year. developed economies, have been particularly successful in bringing the Labour Relations The report describes companies as the most powerful and sophisticated spotlight back on human rights compliance for suppliers of large actors on the world stage, not governments. There are instances where businesses, many of who are based out of emerging and low-income corporate accountability has failed and human rights were violated by countries. The OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises (“OECD companies directly or indirectly and Human Rights Watch has documented Guidelines”) and the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights such cases of corporate complicity with human rights violations.These are (“UN Guiding Principles”) reflect the importance of proactive business not restricted to extractive industries (mining, refineries) but also include interventions on upholding human rights principles. An important companies with poor human rights and health and safety compliances challenge which businesses may face is in effecting interventions where the across other business sectors. sphere of control and influence is limited. Businesses should take efforts to ensure that business decisions and interactions are guided by the context of issues and informed consent of affected parties. According to International Telecommunications union (ITU), mobile ICT companies have greater responsibility in strengthening the critical Pervasive Digitization cellular subscriptions will reach almost 7 billion by end 2014, infrastructure and put in place systems to protect against disruptions or corresponding to a penetration rate of 96%. Also by the end of 2014, the attacks as the risks associated utmost important to national security and number of Internet users globally will reach almost 3 billion – 40% of the business continuity. Businesses are legally obliged to comply with lawful world’s population. Two-thirds of the world’s Internet users are from the government demands. At the same they also have the responsibility to developing world.With ICT becoming ubiquitous in day to day life, several uphold universally accepted human rights principles. In this context, there technological risks arise. World Economic Forum’s Global Risk Report is onus upon businesses to address this issue by balancing legal compliance 2015 talks about risks related to the growing role of information and communication technologies to individuals, businesses and governments. with compliance with human rights principles. One approach followed by Major risks identified by the report are critical infrastructure failure/ businesses is to advocate the users ‘right to know’ how businesses deal breakdown, data fraud/theft and cyber-attacks. These technological risks with such situations. The Global Network Initiative is such a step toward are strongly connected to each other and also to risks such as terrorist collaboration among the sectors companies to address this challenge. attacks and global governance failure. Another ICT related risk is regarding the free expression and privacy rights of the users. There are instances globally of governments compelling businesses to disclose personal data of users and limiting access to information to suppress unwanted political activity. Such actions from governments infringe human rights and often companies especially in the ICT sector face the challenge. Google transparency Report talks about the ‘worrying upward trend in the number of government requests’ to take down government criticism. Google received 3,846 government requests to remove 24,737 pieces of content—a 68 percent increase over the second half of 2012 for the period from January to June 2013. Government requests for user information in criminal cases have increased by about 120 percent since 2009. 40 Wipro’s Sustainability Strategy Perspective Sustainability strategy and governance at Wipro The unique characteristic of corporate sustainability is that it straddles both the an effective governance structure that addresses the twin drivers of strategy and worlds of business and the social arena outside ; this can however result in its execution equally. What follows is a visual representation of key elements of confused positioning within the organization and therefore, it is critical to set up sustainability governance and how Wipro tries to address them. A compelling vision that has leadership backing (Green) Create a robust investment decision framework Our view of corporate citizenship based on the belief that business Ecoeye and Wipro’s Finance group have created a policy and decision must get involved in social issues because it is the right thing to do, framework that provides guidelines for evaluating internal and not because of compliance pressures. investment proposals on sustainability ; the framework balances the need for accelerated implementation of sustainability programs with the need to stay focused on financial prudence. Vest formal accountability at corporate level Integrate into mainstream planning, budgeting and review processes Ecoeye carries primary responsibility for Wipro’s sustainability program at the corporation level ; WATIS, Mission10X and Wipro All sustainability programs of Wipro follow the regular planning Cares carry distinct responsibilities for education and community and budgeting cycles of the corporation The sustainability program care programs. These are groups at the corporation level that pull is reviewed quarterly at multiple levels – by the board, by the together the different strands of the program and steer it forward in Sustainability corporate executive council and by the chairman the defined direction. strategy and governance at Wipro Create organizational capacity at multiple levels Sustanability is everyones business Formal training programs on sustainability are conducted for EHS, Drive committed involvement of key functions across the HR and Finance managers at regular intervals;An e-learning program organization. For environmental goals Wipro’s Facilities Management on Diversity that is available to all employees as part of the employee Group and Civil Infrastructure groups are key custodians and hold portal; Creation of Sustainability Council consisting of C-level and responsibility against defined goals ; Other key stakeholders that hold senior leaders who meet on a quarterly basis to review the progress defined sustainability goals are Human Resources, Legal, Finance, of our sustainability goals;A strong employee chapter program that is communications and Risk Office. based on voluntary but committed participation Set well defined and measurable sustainability goals We have a structured and well defined dashboard of five year goals Learn and continuously explore the power of partnership for Energy, GHG reduction, Water, Waste and Biodiversity ;these Our programs in Education, Community Care and Sustainability goals have year-wise milestones and are part of all our public Advocacy are largely predicated on the principle of nurturing disclosures We have similarly articulated statement of direction and partner networks that foster synergies between different areas of qualitative goals on Health and Safety, Diversity, Green Computing expertise and diversity of institutions in the country and education. Wipro’s Sustainability Strategy Perspective 41 The Wipro sustainability dashboard for 2013-14 If sustainability is to be embedded in an organisation, the same rigor of goal summary but a complete understanding of these dimensions is possible only in setting, measurement and monitoring is necessary as is common in business the detailed analysis that follows in subsequent sections. This year for our operations. Sustainability goals hide multiple layers and dimensions many of which education and community programs, we have attempted to publish highlights of are not quantifiable or where a numerical metric does not disclose the complete our programs in the IOO (Input-Output-Outcomes) framework. In the investor picture. Our position therefore is that the rigor of goal setting and tracking in the section, we have also have presented a complete natural capital (or sustainability arena must not be equated to a set of numbers. The goals and environmental profit and loss account) of our value chain. measures presented in the sustainability dashboard below are a condensed Key performance highlights (2013-14) Vision and goals for future Energy & ? Reduction in energy intensity per employee by 5.2 % to 233 units ? Our five year goals end in 2014-15. Set up climate science based targets GHG Efficiency from 2012-13. for 2020 and beyond. Science based targets are set based on sector ? Reduction in emissions intensity per employee for Scope 1 & 2 by based allocation of carbon budget to limit global temperate rise at 2 2.8 % to 1.80 tons from 2012-13. degree C by 2100. ? Reduction in absolute emissions for Scope 1 & 2 by 1.8 % from ? Set up goals for the top Scope 3 impact categories (business travel and 2012-13. employee commute) in 2014. ? RE contributes to more than 21% of total office space consumption globally. ? GHG savings of nearly 141031 tons through measures across energy efficiency, RE, travel substitution and virtualization. ? The per employee water consumption for the reporting year is 1.46 ? Improve water efficiency (fresh water use per employee) by 5% year on Water Efficiency m3 per month, a 7.1 % reduction when compared with 1.57 m3 in year. year 2012-13. ? Implement ultra-filtration and RO projects and integrate with in three ? Recycled 886731 m3 of water in 24 of our major locations large campuses by 2016. (compared to 839389 m3 in 23 locations in 2010-11) using Sewage ? Integrate rainwater harvesting into freshwater consumption across Treatment Plants (STPs). This accounts for 47% of freshwater used campuses by 2017. across campuses. ? Broad base the Participative aquifer mapping (PAQM) program with ? Responsible water framework implementation completed across 4 the community and launch the lakes study program covering 16 lakes in campuses. the Sarjapur watershed. ? Participative aquifer mapping program started in a 35 Sq. km. watershed surrounding our campus. 42 Wipro’s Sustainability Strategy Perspective Key performance highlights (2013-14) Visions and goals for future Waste Recycling Initiated a comprehensive and independent waste assessment audit ? 100% of organic waste to be handled in-house at owned locations by ? & Pollution Mitigation across our locations for electronic waste and solid waste streams in end of 14-15. 2013. 100% of paper, cardboard, hazardous and e-waste, mixed metals/scrap ? 92% of the total waste from our IT India operations is recycled ? and plastics to be recycled/ handled as per approved methods by end of through both, in-house recycling units and through authorized 14-15. vendor tie-ups. Reduce Mixed solid waste intensity to half by 2017 (3 year target) as ? Collected and recycled 195 tons of end of life E-waste through ? compared to 13-14 authorized vendors during FY13-14. Reduce landfill intensity to half by 2017 (3 year target) as compared to ? 13-14. Baseline air pollution metrics in 14-15 and arrive at three to five year ? road map. Work on phase two of the four phase project, the 3 acre wetland ? Start programs in five of our existing campuses to create biodiversity ? Biodiversity park, is in progress. To be completed in 2015. zones by 2015. Started work on the campus biodiversity project for two of our ? Incorporate biodiversity principles into the design of all new campuses. ? Pune campuses – PDC 1 and 2 and conducted biodiversity surveys in the winter, summer and monsoon seasons. Species census being conducted regularly in campus – measuring ? plant, butterfly, bees, birds and other biodiversity indicators ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 certification: Wipro Limited ? Sustain and continually improve ? our wellness programs across Employee Health PAN India Major Locations i.e., 20 Locations are certified for ISO businesses and locations. and Safety 14001 and OHSAS 18001 certified. Conduct OHSAS and EMS certifications for larger leased facilities. ? Internal Audits: Internal Audits are conducted every six months ? to check the EHS performance of each location with respect to ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 standard requirements. Employee Health & Safety committees: Committees that ? consist of cross functional members formed across locations who meet quarterly & participate Location Review meetings, Safety Committee meetings, safety inspections, hygiene audits as a part of Health and safety performance. Food Safety: Numerous food safety and hygiene programs were ? conducted and inspected at our campuses. Trainings for the Food Business Operators on FSSAI regulations ( New Regulations) were conducted to make them comply with the legal norms with respect Wipro’s Sustainability Strategy Perspective 43 Key performance highlights (2013-14) Visions and goals for future to Food safety. Trainings on ISO 22000 are carried out by the IRCA approved external agency approved for teams across PAN India. Gap Analysis with respect to FSSAI requirements are carried out at Bengaluru as part of continual improvement. ? Trainings: Wipro Limited has identified the trainings as a part of “COMPENTENCY, AWARENESS AND TRAININGS” for all the employees/ service providers working at our campus and ensure them to adopt the good practices in their work places which shall lead to achieve the objective “SAFE WORK PLACE” of our Health and Safety Policy. ? Risk Assessments: Wipro Limited has developed an integrated Risk Assessment in place of Initial Environmental Review and Hazard Identification and Risk Assessment. The risk assessment is evaluated every year and also as and when the accidents/ incidents /near misses noticed. Employees, stakeholders and Service providers are part of this risk assessment. ? Hosting of national and international EHS events: ¡ World Environment Week: World Environment Day Wipro this year, saw a host of week-long activities that provided us with an opportunity to pick an area of interest and show support, concern towards nature & its conservation. These activities included Awareness Programs by Greenpeace, Sapling Plantation Sale of Eco-friendly products, Emission checks for vehicles, exhibitions, games and awareness talks by experts. ¡ World Water Day: Water day celebrations at Wipro campuses some of which include quizzes, awareness programs and drawing competitions etc. ¡ World Earth Day: Earth day was celebrated across the locations and employee awareness programs were conducted on energy conservation. ¡ International Day For The Preservation Of The Ozone Layer 16th Sep’13: Ozone day was celebrated at our locations by creating awareness by means of posters, quizzes & talk sessions. Involved School Children in the activities organized at Wipro 44 Wipro’s Sustainability Strategy Perspective Key performance highlights (2013-14) Visions and goals for future Campus and explained the effects of Ozone depletion with “Models and Posters”. ¡ Women committees: Women of Wipro ( WOW) committees were formed to discuss on health and safety concerns at work places and also health awareness programs were conducted. ¡ 43rd National Safety Day: FMG Organized activities to commemorate the 43rd National Safety Day Celebrations. These activities included Flag Hoisting, pledges, rewards, and scenarios on emergency preparedness, Trainings on safety and expert talks on safety. Occupational Health Center: Wipro Limited has in-house 24/7 ? occupational health centers (OHC) at 20 locations across India to provide amenities ranging from basic First Aid and to emergency care units. Advanced Life support (ALS) / Basic life support (BLS) Ambulances are stationed 24X 7 at major campus to handle medical emergencies and shift the employee to the nearest hospital. Ergonomic Sessions for Employees: Ergonomic sessions are ? conducted by the ergonomist with emphasis on Repetitive strain injuries (RSI) that may be caused by workplace activities. Ergonomic center is set up at all major locations to help our employees on postural problems as a proactive measure Orthopedic and Gynecology Consultations: Wipro Limited ? has orthopedic consultations for employees at few locations on weekly basis as a part of Health awareness. Our Counselling program for Wipro employees now in its 11th year, ? will recruit the next set of volunteers in 2014. Wipro’s Sustainability Strategy Perspective 45 Key performance highlights (2013-14) Visions and goals for future Diversity and ? The percentage of Women in Wipro's workforce increased to 31% To continue to strengthen our diversity initiatives around gender, ? Inclusion from 30% in the past reporting period. persons with disability and nationality. This will translate into both, ? We have 442 persons with disabilities working in various roles (I) higher numbers and proportions and (II) processes and systems across geographies those who have declared their disabilities as on To further our supplier engagement program on diversity by ? December 2014. empanelling more suppliers who meet the criteria of a 'Diversity ? Globally, Wipro's workforce comprises of 101 nationalities with 40% Supplier'. of our overseas workforce (outside India) comprising local nationals. To continue to partner with industry associations like NASSCOM and ? ? Diversity parameters are incorporated into our supplier evaluation Catalyst on Diversity & Inclusion initiatives and advocacy. questionnaire and are being actively sought where appropriate. ? Conscious effort to source meritorious talent for each diversity category. Relationship program with sourcing agencies. ? Wipro's first rural BPO delivery center at Manjakkudi, Tamil Nadu, India, grew from 50 to 150 employees over the last 3 years. ? The third batch for ‘Women in Leadership Mentoring’ was launched for 100 high potential women from middle management. ? Wipro Kinesics was launched as a one-stop-shop learning medium on the basics of sign language in the Wipro IT business environment. ? Project ‘Siyapha’, the community initiative arm of Wipro South Africa has created 92 jobs since its inception 2 years ago. ? Employee Perception Survey (EPS) 2013-14 had 65% of the global Strengthen capability building and talent management for a world-class ? People Development Wipro IT business workforce participate in it. Manager Quality, workplace. Training & Development and Work-life balance which were Strengthen learning as a culture and create enhanced career ? identified as focus areas in the previous survey, registered increase in development frameworks. satisfaction levels. Additional features like manager-level engagement reports and two adjunct surveys were introduced to provide granular insights. ? Over 5200 employees selected target roles on Career Hub – Wipro’s one stop shop for all career related information and are working on developmental plans. ? An integrated portal launched for employees to create individual developmental plans through multiple sources of feedback like appraisals, manager surveys, self-assessments etc. 46 Wipro’s Sustainability Strategy Perspective Key performance highlights (2013-14) Visions and goals for future Learning Networks portal was launched in 2013 as a social learning ? tool to enable employees to learn through one-to-one and many-tomany mentoring. Over 23,000 technical, behavioral and leadership programs delivered ? across the organization during the current reporting year. 1347 students joined the Wipro Academy of Software Excellence ? (WASE) program. 692 entrants were hired through the Wipro Software Technology Academy (WiSTA) Program. During 2013-14 over 360 Program and Delivery Managers and ? Account Delivery Heads underwent customized role-based assessments. E-learning was introduced in 2012-13 for engineering campus new ? hires. In 13-14, this program helped us engage with over 10,000 new campus hires through self-learning modules prior to joining. Our Unified Competency Framework (UCF) continues to help employees get certified on various technical skills. This program was further enhanced through the UPgrade Skills and Competencies through Accelerated Learning (UPSCALE) program which has a focus on multi-skilling employees. In FY 13-14, 40,000 eligible employees cleared UCF assessments while 7500 cleared UPSCALE and 10,000 more enrolled in UPSCALE. Wipro Leaders Qualities (WLQ) survey which is a 360-degree ? feedback mechanism was extended to include middle managers, covering around 19,000 employees across the organization. Improvement in Voice of customer (VOC) and customer ? Continue to meet goals and expectations on customer satisfaction ? Customer engagement metrics and engagement Stewardship Provide comprehensive solutions in emerging areas of Analytics, IoT, ? Continue to explore environmental and social (low cost) ? Mobility, Open source, Enterprise security, Cloud solutions among innovations on IT solutions for natural capital intensive business others. sectors like energy, utilities, mining, logistics, manufacturing and Wipro achieved an overall CSR rating of Gold (highest among ? distributed retail possible three levels) and a CSR engagement rating of “Advanced” in Supplier sustainability engagement to move into procurement group ? the recent assessment of sustainability performance by Ecovadis, a specific interventions like hardware, construction, facilities Paris based organization which provides a collaborative platform for management service providers by communicating specific expectations and sample assessments. Wipro’s Sustainability Strategy Perspective 47 Key performance highlights (2013-14) Visions and goals for future our customers to monitor the sustainability performance of companies across 150 sectors. ? Verego SRS (Social Responsibility Standard), an independent supplier CSR assessment framework has rated Wipro as “Best in Class” across all the 5 SRS areas (Leadership, Ethics, People, Community and Environment) and designated us as a “CSR Thought Leader”. Wipro Applying Thought in Schools Education & Community Initiatives ? Associated with 60 organizations at different levels of engagement and worked closely with 35 organizations supporting 67 projects. ? Developed strategic focus on a few themes and areas like ecology, social sciences, languages, affective education, creating education material and public advocacy. Encourage more publishers to send their titles for review, ? ? Supported 18 Fellows for individual work in Education; e.g.: for strengthen the review panel and processes, provide a wide variety of writing a book on Learning Psychology of Children, documenting content through its blog and increase the user base significantly for our projects etc. Goodbooks.in program. ? Published 8 books, booklets and reports e.g.: Water Stories, Why the Expand Wipro Science Education Fellowship Program in the U.S.A. ? Sky is Blue. to other cities. ? Developed Learning Standards and Curriculum Map for primary classes. ? Developed a video series on Student Misconceptions and disseminated to 10,000 schools. ? Overall we have worked with over 2300 schools and 13,250 educators across 17 states, reaching around 1 million students. earthian ? Over 350 schools and 200 colleges participated in this year’s edition of program. Extend the activity based approach to colleges through a preliminary ? ? Covered over 6000 schools and 5000 colleges through our outreach environmental foot printing study. initiatives which ensured massive participation from rural and semiIntroduce other themes along with Water, starting with biodiversity ? rural India, making this a highly inclusive program. for engagement for schools. ? 10 earthian winning schools and colleges from the earlier 2012-13 edition were engaged in the Continuous Engagement Program. ? Partnerships forged with ATREE, CSTEP, BIOME, DNV and CDP to help deliver sustainability related content and programs to schools and colleges. 48 Wipro’s Sustainability Strategy Perspective Key performance highlights (2013-14) Visions and goals for future Mission 10x ? Trained 27,089+ Engineering College Faculty and covered more than 1,300 colleges across the 26 states through Mission10X interventions. ? Launched Aarambh an e-learning program for fresher faculty to learn how to teach. Train 500 students from 50 MTLCs through Engineering Thinking ? ? Set up 54 Mission10X Technology Learning Centers (MTLCs) across workshop. 12 states to integrate UTLP (Unified Technology Learning Platform). ? Started Engineering Thinking workshop for the students who are part of the Mission10X Technology Learning centers (MTLCs). ? Piloted a faculty empowerment program for Science College teachers and trained about 320 Faculty on Enhancing Teaching Skills workshop. ? Mission10X has been recognized globally by CorpU (Corporate University exchange, USA) in innovation. Wipro Cares ? Reached out to a population of around 36 thousand people across 39 villages through our 5 healthcare projects as a part of our primary health care initiatives. Revive the Hindupur project and start new projects close to our ? ? Started a project that reaches out to 500 children in Sarjapur area in facilities in Haridwar, Uttarakhand and Baddi, Himachal Pradesh Bangalore to improve their health and educational status in under the domain of Primary Health Care. collaboration with Magic Bus, India as part of primary education Continue to support organizations catering to the educational needs ? initiative. of the most underprivileged children, especially children of migrant ? Supported planting of 25,000 young saplings by about 25 farmers in laborers. Villupuram district of Tamil Nadu in third phase of social forestry Form Location Councils at each Wipro location to encourage ? project. employee engagement and participation in managing Wipro Cares ? Finalized two new projects on livelihood in Uttarakhand and Odisha. projects. ? Started South Africa Chapter called Wipro Siyapha. Continue making one time grants to credible organizations working ? ? Organized a blood donation drive for thallassemics where 3696 in the area of public health, education and disability in a bid to units of blood were collected in nine locations across India. strengthen their institutional capabilities. ? In 2013-14, a total of around 4000 volunteering hours were put in by 10 chapters in India and 3 overseas chapters. Wipro’s Sustainability Strategy Perspective 49 Key performance highlights (2013-14) Visions and goals for future ? Our engagement on public policy and on issues that require wider Advocacy and ?To continue to play a central role in advancing the agenda on critical advocacy centered around climate change, water, e-Waste, education Public Policy issues of Climate Change, Energy Efficiency, Water and Waste and CSR. ? We continue to be part of the CII Climate Change Council which through industry networks like CII, FICCI and NASSCOM works with government and industry on furthering the agenda on ?To be closely involved in shaping the specifics of the guidelines climate change mitigation and adaptation pertaining to Section 135 on the CSR provisions of the Companies ? Along with the CII Karnataka chapter, we convened the Karnataka Bill 2012 State Water Network (KSWN). The KSWN brings together ?To continue our strong advocacy on relevant systemic issues of stakeholders from government, academia, civil society and business to school education by working with various partners. address the most pressing issues in water in Bangalore and ?To continue to work with (i) network of academic and civil society surrounding areas. partners for on the on ground action and (ii) through industry ? Engage in-depth with the Indian government – in particular, the networks to steer inclusive policies and regulations in the following Ministry of Corporate Affairs – on the CSR provisions in the focus areas: Companies Bill 2012 amendments ¡ Energy and Climate Change ? As part of the CII Environment Committee, Wipro was also a ¡ Water convener of the working group on e-Waste and Solid waste. ¡ Biodiversity ? The topic of ‘Textbooks’ was taken up as an area of advocacy in 2013¡ E-Waste 14 and an exhibition on ‘Textbooks in Colonial India’ was held as a ¡ Education, including 'Sustainability Education' beginning. We plan to follow this up in 2014-15 with an online archive ¡ Diversity on textbooks and public events To continue to focus on issues of urban water management through ? ? Our 14th Partners’ Forum deliberated on the issue of ‘Textbooks and KSWN, Community centered responsible Water Program in the Education’ and was attended by over 70 members from civil society Sarjapur watershed and ELCITA sustainable water zone program. organizations, academic institutions and education department of various state governments ? Our projects received regular coverage in English and vernacular media; such as SeasonWatch (Malayalam) and GoodBooks (English) ? Through earthian, Wipro's flagship program in sustainability education for schools and colleges, our goal is to act as catalysts for wider sustainability advocacy among the young in India's schools and colleges ? Wipro is part of the core CII committee for employment of people with disabilities and also part of the NASSCOM working group on gender inclusion ? Catalyst is a leading nonprofit organization which works on expanding opportunities for women and business. Wipro’s CEO is chair of Catalyst India Advisory Board. 50 Wipro’s Sustainability Strategy Perspective Spotlight: Aligning with sustainability charters and networks Sustainability is a multi-stakeholder game and collective action is the only the networks that we started out with – we provide below the updated summary effective way to address it challenges. Since inception, we have believed that of our associations and networks that is an updated version of the table in our subscribing to select charters and aligning with the right networks can be a force previous report multiplier for some of our own programs.We continue to be deeply engaged with Charter /Network Brief description Wipro's engagement /Association The Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) is a pioneer in climate action by trying to align Wipro has been a participant in the Carbon Disclosure Project since 2007-08 and has Carbon Disclosure Project industry, government and the investment community onto a common vision and been a ranked member 1 in the Carbon Disclosure Leadership Index (CDLI) India for platform. It represents the interests of 655 investors with a combined asset base of US three consecutive years 2012, 2013 and 2014. $ 78 trillion and illustrates the growing trend of responsible investment. The CII-ITC Center for Sustainable Development (CESD) constituted a task force to Wipro has been a part of the core working group, the primary recommendations of CII-ITC CESD's task force study the proposed guidelines on CSR from the Ministry of Corporate Affairs (MCA). which have been 1.The ministry’s proposed 2% of Profit After Tax spend on CSR on CSR guidelines The group has been engaged with the government as the voice of industry and in trying should not be mandatory as it certain to become counter-productive to evolve a balanced perspective of the bill’s provisions 2.To keep the reporting requirement as simple and consistent as possible The committee constituted of a working group on e-Waste and Solid Waste ; the CII Environment working group’s goal was to bring producers, customers, recyclers and government Wipro was also a convener of the working group. Committee together to a common platform in order to discuss improvements to the e-Waste Rules 2012 India Green Building The IGBC was formed under the aegis of the CII in 2001 with the goal of ushering in a Wipro is one of the executive members of the IGBC panel that evolved the Green Council (IGBC) ‘Green Building’ movement in India . Building standards for India. Indian Society for Technical The ISTE is a nodal group at the national level which furthers the cause of engineering Education (ISTE) Wipro's Mission10X is a member of the iSTE education in the right direction . Please visit http://www.isteonline.in/for details Wipro became a formal signatory to the UNGC in September 2008. Our first COP U.N. Global Compact The ten principles of the UNGC act as both a policy platform and a practical (Communication on Progress) was published in July 2010 and our most recent CoP framework for companies that are committed to sustainability was published in 2014 CII Karnataka State Water The KSWN brings together stakeholders from government, academia, civil society and business to address the most pressing issues in water in Bangalore and surrounding Wipro is the convener for KSWN along with the CII Karnataka chapter Network (KSWN) CII committee for employment The confederation of Indian Industry (CII) constituted a committee to look into issues Wipro is part of the core committee. of people with disabilities of employability of people with disabilities into the workforce. areas NASSCOM working group NASSCOM constituted a working group to explore and communicate best practices Wipro is a member of the working group. on gender inclusion on gender inclusion. Catalyst India Catalyst is a leading nonprofit organization which works on expanding opportunities Wipro CEO is chair of Catalyst India Advisory Board. for women and business. Wipro’s Sustainability Strategy Perspective 51 ca. 300 BC, Rome, Italy 2000 year old Roman aqueducts are still functional today While the rich and the poor of ancient Rome led very different lives, they did have equal and uninterrupted access to one thing: water. The Romans were skilled engineers and conceptualized an elaborate system of winding aqueducts which carried water to all parts of this ancient city. Be it a private villa or a public bath, water reached these places from a seemingly invisible network of underground aqueducts built from a special combination of stone, brick and cement. Ducts concealed in colossal bridges and arches, crisscrossed the city, feeding water into fountains and felds. Today, one can still fnd the residents of Rome, just like their ancestors, flling bottles from the Trevi Fountain, which gets its water from the Acqua Vergine, revived during the Renaissance. Wipro and its stakeholders 5.Wipro and its stakeholders 5 A sustainability report is an integrated articulation of the material issues for the Simultaneously, we have also started collaborative partnerships with research organization. One of the first steps it needs to undertake is to understand who its and academic institutions. To these stakeholders, we have added another stakeholders are. The primacy is not with one group, say providers of financial stakeholder, Current and Future Generations. We think that the future must capital investors, employees or customers. Undoubtedly it is them and beyond. inform our thinking and actions on sustainability more than anything else, Other stakeholders wield varying degrees of influence on the stakeholders who otherwise our vision will stop short of being truly sustainable; therefore, while provide financial capital over the medium to long term. For business to earn and this stakeholder group may not have a tangible and real face to it, they act as an retain its rightful role in society; it has to evaluate material issues and risks across anchor for our decisions. different stakeholders. Being in positions of relative strength compared to most other stakeholders, organisations should engage responsibly and with sensitivity. At the same time, an organization has varying degrees of influence and control over its stakeholders depending on the context, structure of its relationships and relative economic power. At Wipro, we have always viewed our customers, employees and investors as strategic partners and stakeholders. Over the last decade, our deep outreach into education and community care has brought us in close engagement with two new stakeholders partners in the education ecosystem and proximate communities. While the IT services industry model does not necessitate a deep supply chain, the rapid expansion of this sector in the last two decades has resulted in a variety of ancillary services e.g. transport, housekeeping, hospitality, security, waste handling, construction. Services suppliers and contractors have become thus a critical stakeholder for our operations. In progressing towards the goal of a sustainable and inclusive society, government, academia and research play a crucial role the government by legislating progressive policies and the academic / research worlds by driving fundamental innovation. Over the last three years, Wipro has started engaging and collaborating closely with government and policy bodies on matters related to energy, water and ICT in governance. Wipro and its stakeholders 55 Modes and frequency of engagement Major issues of engagement Visions and Primary goals forinternal futurecustodian Modes: Strategic and operational reviews, Quality and timeliness of delivery ? The Chief Strategy Officer, Chief Business Customers Customer Meets, Formal customer feedback and Impact on customer’s business goals ? Operations Officer, the Chief Quality Officer, the surveys Does Wipro meet the expected norms on ? Sales and Marketing functions and their teams Frequency: Ongoing and continuous; Surveys environment, labor and human rights and are annual and project-based corporate responsibility? Employees Modes: Open houses, Performance reviews, Empowerment, Continuous Learning , ? The Human Resources group, Environment 360 deg feedback, All hands meet, Focus groups, Quality of Work, Work-Life balance Health and Safety group ( joint responsibility for Leadership webcasts, Blogs and discussion Compensation & Benefits, Workplace ? health and safety) groups, Perception Surveys facilities Frequency: Ranges from daily (blogs) to annual Health & Safety , Counseling and Advice ? ( 360 deg feedback) Diversity in the workplace ? Career planning, Appraisal and Feedback ? Integrity and transparency at workplace, the ? company’s larger vision on sustainability and social issues Suppliers Modes: Regular operational reviews, Supplier Company strategy and performance, future ? The Central Procurement Office, Wividus meets,Vendor survey plans Shared Services, Facilities Management Group, Frequency: Will vary from monthly to annual Returns to shareholders ? Legal Group Corporate governance standards ? Top risks and company’s approach to risk ? mitigation Modes: Periodic meetings and discussions, Systemic reform in India’s school education ? Wipro Applying Thought in Schools (WATIS) for Education Regular e-mail exchanges, Annual Education system: Educational material and publications, school education Mission10X for engineering ecosystem Forum, Faculty Workshops, Mission10X Organizational capability development and education collaborative portal Public advocacy Frequency: Varies from weekly to annual Improving the quality of engineering ? education through both curriculum interventions and faculty training 56 Wipro and its stakeholders Modes and frequency of engagement Major issues of engagement Visions andPrimary internal futurecustodian goals for Modes: Periodic meetings with partners, open Education for disadvantaged children e.g. ? Wipro Cares, Location leadership Communities meets with community, Partner newsletters children of migrant laborers, children with and NGO Frequency: Varies from monthly to quarterly hearing disability etc Primary healthcare for rural communities ? Environment issues that affect disadvantaged ? communities e.g. Water Long term rehabilitation for disaster affected ? areas Policy, Research Modes: Planned meetings, workshops, India’s policies on climate change, energy ? eco-eye, Corporate Affairs group, Senior and Advocacy taskforces and steering committees of industry efficiency, water, e-waste and ICT Leadership network bodies Policy research on energy options for India ? Frequency: Varies from monthly to annual Advocacy papers and reports on business ? responsibility Modes: Indirect inference from our school Ecological sustainability of our planet ? Ecoeye, Human Resources Current and interventions mentioned above, Published Meaningful work, work life balance ? Future Generations sociological research and analysis of emerging generation Wipro and its stakeholders 57 Present day, Egypt/Ethiopia The Nile is integral to more than one African country The Nile, the world’s longest river, fows fows across 6,650 kilometres through eleven African countries, before fnally draining into the Mediterranean Sea. It was the Nile that made Egypt’s majestic pyramids possible, transporting the heavy stones that they are built of. Even today, the Nile remains an important part of African life, polity and economy, facilitating agriculture and hydroelectric power. Over the years, it has become a source of confict among several African nations. ? Life on the River Nile in Egypt Building a sustainable workforce 5b.Building a sustainable workforce 5b Wipro’s unique identity and footprint, the world over, is created by our people Creating a safe, inclusive and empowered workplace are therefore foundational and shaped by our organizational culture. Today’s business environment demands priorities for us, and shape all our people programs and initiatives. During 2013higher levels of maturity, thought leadership and collective through-put. Over 14, we introduced a set of organizational Tenets specific behaviors aligned with time, individual jobs have come fuzzy in nature and there is greater need for our values that represent our unique and collective identity as Wiproites. The collaboration, co-creation and learning agility. tenets were introduced by the CEO and the leadership team, and we now have a global pool of Tenet evangelists who have signed up to conduct advocacy For Wipro, this translates to an ever-increasing focus on developing and workshops that will cover all employees over the next year or two. (Figure1) leveraging human capital, so as to enable Wiproites to learn, excel and grow. The changing technological landscape has made it evident that an organization’s Commitment to human rights talent pool and expertise will emerge as the key differentiator for business growth and success. Our customers have also emphasized this through increased focus on people aspects in audits and proposal requests. Building an open, fair and transparent culture is a not only embedded in our core values but g En also imperative for business continuity. We believe that a culture that drives equal din ga ar g opportunity, meritocracy and one in which employees feel safe and ‘listened to’, em o On b will lead to higher levels engagement, retention and performance. Our company ent Benefits rewards Employee wide Code of Business Conduct and Ethics (COBCE) provides guidelines and & recognition well being direction for responsible business conduct and imbibes our commitment for human rights and zero tolerance for discrimination at all stages of employee lifecycle. Our talent management processes and programs are implemented and governed so as to align with this commitment. Diversity and inclusion Organizational Tenets Figure 1 Organizational Tenets Building a sustainable workforce 61 SUSTAINABLE WORKPLACE IN PRACTICE Commitment to Human Rights Reflects principles of United Nations Global Compact, Spirit of Wipro Values United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights, International Labour Organization. Reflects principles of United Nations Code of Business Conduct and Ethics Built into the on-boarding process for all new joinees Global Compact, United Nations Universal Ombudsprocess Mandatory annual training and certification Declaration of Human Rights, International Labour Organization. 24x7 access to Ombudspersons and Prevention Prevention of Sexual Harassment of Sexual Harassment Committee persons Equality, Diversity and Inclusion Stated commitment in the Code of Business Conduct Meritocracy and Non-discrimination and Ethics Comprehensive Diversity & Inclusion framework spanning the complete talent lifecycle of Hiring, Women of Wipro Wipro's Gender Equity program Learning, Opportunities and Growth, enabled by Policy and Infrastructure. Diversity 'Vital signs' tracking to monitor equity Persons with Disability program levels across key people processes. Nationalities Employee Safety and Well-being Workplace safety and security Comprehensive Medical benefits coverage Progressive compensation and benefit programs 'Mitr' counselling support On-boarding Structured orientation for all new-joinees Project Readiness Program for campus recruits. New joinee on-boarding intranet portal 62 Building a sustainable workforce Engagement and Advocacy Feedback platforms such as Employee Perception Survey, We respect employees' right to form or Voice of stakeholder Employee Perception Pulse Survey, Integrated Employee participate in trade unions. Support Centre, All Hands Meets, Team meetings Employee advocacy Employee Advocacy Group, Employee participation in location level committees Capability Building Unified Competency Framework (UCF) Upgrade Skills and Competencies through Accelerated LEarning (UPSCALE) Assessments Learning in the Wings WBPO SEED, Advanced Video Suite, Process Excellence Careers Career Hub Individual Development Plan Learning Networks Distinguished member of technical staff program, domain framework Leadership Building Wipro Leader's Qualities Manager Excellence Framework Pathfinder Lifecycle programs Building a sustainable workforce 63 During 2013-14, we continued to enhance our talent management processes and and introduced. Material aspects are embedded in the People Sustainability and workplace facilities to create an empowered experience at work. We also Diversity & Inclusion mandates and are reviewed on a quarterly basis by Wipro’s concentrated efforts towards enabling workforce capability and engagement Sustainability Council, consisting of the CEOs of all Wipro Limited Divisions, through focus on key areas such as expert career opportunities, managerial Chief Sustainability Officer, and senior executives responsible for Ecological, effectiveness and talent assessment and development. Significant focus and Social and Diversity programs. investment was also made in creating a more streamlined and employee-friendly onboarding experience, and the workforce transitions framework was revamped to enable a best-in-class welcome for transitioning employees. Our global talent management programs are today more robust and integrated, for greater effectiveness. Customized initiatives and reward programs are in place to align with the specific strategic need of each business segment, so as to provide maximum benefit to each employee group. People functions across businesses and geographies create and implement programs that address challenges arising out of their specific business context, such as customized highpotential programs, retention and reward programs. Our global campuses offer a range of facilities to enable effective team-work in a safe and accessible environment. With robust safety and occupational health protocols in place, our campuses also have in-built infrastructure for team meetings, celebrations and large business events, which is a key element of culture building. Location level committees comprising employees, functional representatives and key vendors implement corrective actions, improvements and new workplace initiatives. Goals related to talent management and workplace programs are embedded in key performance indicators and metrics of human resource and other people functions. Key organizational feedback forums such as the Employee Perception Survey (EPS) are also key indicators of effectiveness. Basis the feedback from these forums, as well as on-going employee interaction, programs are enhanced 64 Building a sustainable workforce Engagement & Empowerment People are our primary asset and strategic lever. Wipro has a high level of Our campus joiners undergo a 3-month onboarding process. Lateral hires commitment to nurturing talent and the integrated talent management approach undergo a 3-month onboarding process which includes a 2-day classroom spans the complete employee life-cycle and all processes and functions like induction, business unit-wise inductions, a buddy process and time-boxed onboarding, continuous engagement, assessment & capability building, career learning plans. The welcoming process for campus joiners and lateral hires development & career planning, leadership development, employee well-being includes a ‘Spirit of Wipro’ session to orient all new joiners to our values and and total rewards. forms a key component in uniting Wipro-ites across the world. Onboarding Additionally, new joiners in senior bands also undergo customized onboarding with senior leaders; which is aligned to their specific roles. Vital information Our global workforce is a reflection of our diversity and our key competitive about the leadership, vision of the unit, business structure and various programs advantage. We consider a robust onboarding process as a vital step in ensuring & initiatives is also disseminated through a business unit or project induction. smooth assimilation of new joiners into the organizational culture & values and to ensure flow of information & support to reduce time to become role-ready. Presence in 59 countries with 101 nationalities makes the induction process intricate. Our ‘new hire onboarding portal’ streamlines the onboarding process through a self-paced learning plan, buddy-mapping for ongoing support and a 30Corporate and 90 day feedback. The portal is designed to complement the in-person induction induction programs to ensure adequate information, interaction & networking. process Continuous Engagement Effective engagement fosters a culture that is participative; this helps bring Onboarding employees and leaders closer together on an open platform and also reinforces a and culture of transparency and ownership. During 2013-14, our engagement Assimilation programs were more strongly positioned in alignment with our overall people New joinee Custimized strategic drivers. Our engagement programs are driven on 3 levels – onboarding unit-level organizational, unit / team and individual. portal induction Figure 3 Onboarding and Assimilation Process Building a sustainable workforce 65 With the deep and constant focus on engagement and dialogue, there are various channels of advocacy available to employees, including the right to exercise freedom of association. Wipro’s Code of Business Conduct and Ethics contains Individual our stated commitment to human rights; we respect the right of employees to exercise freedom of association and to be represented by trade unions if they desire. Given that the workplace is driven by transparent people processes, Unit/Team participative work culture and collaboration, only a small percentage of our global workforce is part of registered trade unions and work councils. A section of employees in Germany, Finland, Sweden, France, Austria, Romania, and Australia Organizational are part of these bodies. The HR function meets these groups periodically to consult on any changes that can impact work environment and terms and conditions. Figure 4 Three Levels of Employee Engagement Wipro BPO’s Integrated Employee Support Centre (IESC) – In order to Employees who are cognizant of organization culture, values and changes that reinforce the strong commitment for quicker query resolution and enhanced impact them are in a better position to provide feedback and participate in the employee care,Wipro BPO launched IESC in 2013. This is a 24x7 helpline to which decision making process at the organizational level. Our awareness & education acts as a one stop solution for employee queries and clarifications on HR, Payroll campaigns include online & email announcements, floor walks & kiosks. and Transport services. Since its inception, 68% of queries have been resolved during the first call. IESC manages approximately 6000+ transport queries and The leadership team also engages with employees throughout the year through 300+ HR and Payroll queries on a daily basis. forums such as company level ‘Wipro Meets’, business unit level ‘All Hands Meet’, round-table discussions and function meets. These interactive sessions provide employees an opportunity to understand business highlights, plans, provide Employee Feedback feedback and seek answers to queries. These sessions also include a rewards Informal feedback is collected from employees throughout the year through segment where outstanding contribution by employees is recognized. forums like leadership meets, group discussions & one-on-one meetings. Besides An important enablement to engagement is through business managers and these, Wipro also has a formal feedback mechanism in the form of Employee Human Resource (HR) teams. Defined engagement metrics are included in the Perception Survey (EPS), EPS Pulse and Employee Advocacy Group (EAG). At a goals & objectives of managers & HR business partners and include one-to-one micro level, different accounts / regions conduct dipstick surveys which measure meetings, team level discussions, diagnostic meetings and such. Additionally, engagement and gather feedback about the specific micro unit. Focus areas customized engagement frameworks are used by business units to cater to identified through these surveys are rigorously tracked and updates are shared different segments of employees. with employees regularly. 66 Building a sustainable workforce ? Employee Perception Survey (EPS) EPS is administered biennially and is the most effective way of gathering employee opinion on areas that 2011 2013 impact their work and life within Wipro. The themes covered under EPS Diversity Diversity include Culture & Values, Manager Quality, Role, Careers, Work Team Team Environment, Diversity, etc. The survey is open to all employees Social Responsibility Wipro Values Top 5 Areas irrespective of tenure, career level & location and is administered in multiple Wipro Values Customer Focus Customer Focus Social Responsibility of Areas languages. In 2013, 65% of Wipro-ites participated in the survey, thus giving a clear representative view of employee sentiment. While the overall engagement score registered a dip over EPS Pulse 2012, almost all individual Top 5 Areas 2014 2013 levers of satisfaction showed an improvement. Diversity, team, Wipro Training & Development Work-Life Balance values, customer focus, social responsibility and health and safety were the of Strength Role/Job Training & Development top scoring engagement levers with an engagement score of over 65% (topWork-Life Balance Role/Job Seniorb Executive Seniorb Executive box) while rewards, senior executive leadership, role, training and Rewards Rewards development and work-life balance were identified as areas of improvement. These five levers were also identified as focus areas through Figure 6 Employee Perception Survey (EPS) Key Findings the EPS 2011 survey, and absolute scores for all of them (except rewards) have shown an increase in the 2013 survey. Participation Scores Engagement Scores Manager Quality Training & Development Work-life Balance EPS2013 65% EPS2013 60% 3% incrase in 3% increase in 5% increase in satisfaction with satisfaction with training satisfaction with workmanager quality and development life balance EPS Pulse 2012 60% EPS Pulse 2012 64% 7 12% increase in Over 60% employees Over 65% employees individual questions stated they havve a stated that managers releated to manager development plan to provide flexibility 57% 58% 59% 60% 61% 62% 63% 64% 65% 66% 58% 59% 60% 61% 62% 63% 64% quality improve skills and effectively abilities Figure 5 Employee Perception Survey (EPS) Figure 7 Employee Perception Survey (EPS) Improvement in Focus Areas Building a sustainable workforce 67 In EPS 2013, team level engagement reports were introduced for top ? EPS Pulse A shorter dipstick survey called EPS Pulse is conducted in the management to understand the engagement scores within their teams. This interim period between two EPS surveys. Pulse provides an engagement allowed further customization of action plans as per requirements of stock-take as well as feedback on specific actions identified and specific teams. Additionally, 2 adjunct surveys were also conducted – Work implemented from the main EPS survey. preferences study of the multi-generational population and workEmployee Advocacy Group (EAG) The Employee Advocacy Group ? life balance study. These surveys were administered to a random sample (EAG) is a 120+ member representative group managed by Wiproites to of employees cutting across career levels, location, gender etc. The workvoice employee suggestions. EAG Members are selected amongst life balance study provided a snapshot of how employees across the employees with the objective to hear out employee ideas and organization experience flexibility, openness to discussing work-life balance recommendations to improve company policies and processes. The EAG issues and expectations of support required from the organization. Women was formed in Sep 2011 with the twin objectives of – channelizing feedback employees recorded higher levels of satisfaction on work-life balance than on existing policies and practices, and also reviewing new policies before male employees. Women and men both placed equal importance on the launch, wherever feasible. Since inception, the EAG has received about following enablers of work-life balance: flexible work timings, work from 5095 suggestions. During 2013-14, 1963 suggestions were received from home facilities, leave arrangements and health and wellness programs. employees. Themes relating to HR and people processes, recruitment and training account for approximately 50% of the total suggestions received. Suggestions are screened by the EAG team and then by functional SPOCs. The EAG then discusses shortlisted suggestions with Function Heads, and Team implements them in collaboration with functions. The team has also led Engagement Reports specific improvement projects such as a revamp of the performance management system and leave policy. Employee Perception Survey (EPS) Multi-gen Work-life work balance preferences survey study 68 Building a sustainable workforce Finance, Marketing, ? WBPO Engagement Index (EI) Wipro BPO launched the Engagement Business Operations & Quality, 3.77% Index (EI) in 2010, to enhance engagement effectiveness for first level and related functions**, 11.41% mid-level people managers from business across operations. Managers own engagement targets for engagement and retention of talent, reward and recognition and fun-at-work; performance data is tracked and translated Information Systems & related functions*, into an EI score for each manager. Over the years, EI has been internalized 10.49% as an integral responsibility of people managers and is linked to their HR, Recruitment, Training, Wividus, variable pay as well. Engagement Index achievement levels for 2013-14 50.43% closed at over 90%, consistent with 2012-13 levels. Facilities & Security, 23.89% Responsible Business Closure *Information Systems, Infrastructure Management Group, Information Risk Management and Policy Compliance. **Business Operations, Workforce Management Group and Overseas Operations Cell. During the year, analysis of changes in market conditions led to a business Figure 8 Employee Advocacy Group – Suggestions – Function Wise decision to close down the computer hardware manufacturing business division, Implemented, 45, 2% including two manufacturing and assembly units in India, located in Puducherry Work-In-Progress, 130, 7% and Uttarakhand. The closure process was structured and managed with due Under consideration by EAG, 341, 17% sensitivity and confidentiality, and included efforts to enable employment of employees to other local businesses, to the maximum extent possible. We also ensured that all trainee contracts were honoured till completion of tenure. Local human resources functional teams set up assistance programs to enable trainees to secure new opportunities in other local firms. At our manufacturing facilities, the impact on local suppliers was also limited, owing to the fact that these facilities were located in well-established industrial areas, with a strong client base available to suppliers. Closed via Clarification, 1447, 74% Figure 9 Employee Advocacy Group – Status of Suggestions Building a sustainable workforce 69 Partner Employee Engagement (PEET) Employee Engagement Career and Capability Stakeholder Feedback Our focus on responsible people practices extends across our people value Site visits by HR Induction process Satisfaction survey representatives every 92% of new partner (Site-o-meter) chain, and covers over 26,000 contractors, primarily located across our quarter employees covered conducted to capture operations in India. 60% of our contractors are skilled technical employees who site specific feedback are engaged in IT service projects. Many of them are deployed at our client sites, of employees who are based in client and a customized Partner Employee Engagement team is responsible for talent locations management, retention and capability building of this workforce. 40% of our contract workforce is deployed across key support functions such as Facilities On-site policy Over 460 partner Participation 94.79% Management, Security,Transportation, Hospitality and other soft services. awareness sessions, employees offered Satisfaction Score quizzes, celebrations retainer or full time 5.56 on a scale of 7 employee positions In the last four years, the Partner Employee Engagement program has implemented and sustained initiatives and process to develop and retain partner employee talent. Focused engagement initiatives through this program have led Site visits by HR Over 520 partner Survey designed to to higher engagement and retention levels, over the years. representatives every employees covered measure satisfaction quarter under structured job on 6 key parameters Acknowledging that non-compliance to fair labour practices has a serious impact rotation program Basic provisions, on business continuity and engagement of partner employees, Wipro conducts experience with annual audits for partner organizations. In 2013-14, over 80% of partners were partner, experience with Wipro, career covered under the audit process and compliance to audit parameters formed a development and mandatory requirement for contract renewals. Where minor nonrewards and conformances/delays are observed, partners are provided with a defined period of time to implement corrective actions. Failure to act appropriately leads to the Role based Survey results and assessments for focus areas termination of contract. movement communicated to employees and The focus of the PEET program will continue to be on enabling career growth, managers through training and competency development in order to enhance retention mailers and to possibilities. partner organizations to arrive at specific actions Figure 10 Partner Employee Engagement (PEET) FY 13-14 Highlights 70 Building a sustainable workforce Diversity & Inclusion A diverse workforce is a reflection of a dynamically changing world and With the objective of evangelizing our ‘Inclusivity is a way of life at Wipro’ belief marketplace. Wipro recognizes that a talented and diverse workforce is a key amongst all employees, we have constituted a mandatory e-learning module on competitive advantage, and that a heterogeneous group is better equipped to Diversity and Inclusion. The online module provides flexibility and ease of access handle complex and intangible problems through a rich mosaic of ideas and for employees to learn from anytime, anywhere. Through case studies that echo practices which lead to innovation and customer delight. Our focus on common work place issues and interactive quizzes after every topic, the content transparency & public disclosures spotlighted diversity as a core focus area in our aims at sensitizing all individuals on their responsibility in respecting diversity at materiality analysis. Nurturing diversity and making inclusivity a part of Wipro’s the workplace and manifesting inclusive behaviours. Around 54,000 employees culture has thus remained a key focus area for the organization and is a strategic had completed the learning module at the end of FY 13-14. enabler to ensure business growth and performance. Wipro’s commitment to being an equal opportunity employer has been integral in our code of conduct, policies and processes. Wipro’s multi-dimensional Diversity & Inclusion (D & I) program was formally launched in 2008 and focuses on four pillars – gender, persons with disabilities, nationality and underprivileged / disadvantaged communities. Worldwide, research has indicated that there has been slow progress in these areas as indicated by low work participation rate for women in the organized sector, under-representation of women in leadership positions, high unemployment rate of persons with disabilities, etc. Over the years, Wipro’s diversity agenda has focused on driving initiatives to address these areas and Attracting; r en t Infrastructure some of these initiatives have gained prominence as industry benchmarks. ve Recruiting and Retaining Diverse talent Go na e m and Accessibility nce ur Communicating and & Meas Global Diversity Training Developing Policy Sensitivity Council of Audit and Sustaining/ E-module on Diversity Governance metrics Nurturing and Inclusion Building a sustainable workforce 71 Gender Equity Women of Wipro Program Gender Ratios ? The percentage of women employees crossed the 30% mark. At the Wipro recognizes that at different stages of life, the needs of and expectations inception of the program, women comprised 23% of the workforce. This from a women employee are different from their male counterparts. With this in now stands at 31%. mind, we launched the ‘Women in Wipro’ program with a life-stage approach in ? Over the years, the number of women in top management positions has 2008, running multiple programs for women employees in each of these stages. increased from 4.08% to 8.9% and in junior management from 11.17% to 16.7%. ? Attrition levels are 2-2.5% lower for women employees than for male Exposure (0-5 years) employees. ? Enhanced industry Flexibility Talent Retention Survey & Resource Managers Survey exposure through (5-10 years) interactive ? Enablement Empowerment ? Two in-house research surveys launched to identify current gender sessions with (Above 10 years) through policies eminent women equity perspectives and focus areas and to give renewed shape to our and processes like leaders, access to ? Enablement high impact maternity and gender equity effort. extended leave through policies networks, online and processes like ? Research findings were supplemented by gender-disaggregated vital sign options, flexible job postings, maternity and work analysis on rations related to hiring, project allocation, training, partnerships in extended leave opportunities etc. performance ratings, pay equity and attrition. technical events options, flexible etc. work ? Supportive environment opportunities etc. Women of Wipro ? Interaction with through initiatives Wipro leadership ? Supportive like parental ? Speaker Sessions crossed the 20-sessions threshold. Speaker sessions team through chat environment support program sessions, through initiatives are powerful interactive events that connect Wipro employees with for parents-to-be, roundtables etc. like parental day care/creche eminent women leaders across industry. tie-ups near Wipro support program for parents-to-be, ? The third batch of the Women in Leadership Mentoring program was offices, medical benefits and day care/creche initiated, for 100 high-potential women employees in middle insurance policies, tie-ups near Wipro offices, medical management. The mentoring program brings together high-potential access to counselling benefits and women employees with mentors from senior and top management. services etc. insurance policies, access to Around 200 high-potential women have participated in the first two counselling batches. services etc. ? International Women’s Day Celebrations 2014:The theme this year was Figure 11 Women of Wipro Life-stage Approach ‘Celebrating Learning through Partnerships.’ 72 Building a sustainable workforce Awards Persons with Disability Program ? 2014: Wipro Ltd. CEO honoured by the Women’s Empowerment Principle’s Leadership Award: a joint initiative of UN Women and the UN Our Persons with Disability framework completed 5 years in FY 13-14 and Global Compact. focuses on six key themes of Policy, Accessible Infrastructure, Accessible ? 2014: Wipro won 1st place at the NHRD Paper Competition on Information Systems, Recruitment, Training and Awareness. This includes Managing Gender Diversity at Workplace in 2014. enabling infrastructural changes in existing and new premises, such as addition of ? 2013:Women in Wipro cited as a Best Practice for Enabling, Retaining and hand rails, ramps, lifts, designated parking spaces, customized workstations etc. Promoting Women in Science: U.S.-India Cooperation for Women in Science A critical element of the program is technology enabled assistance for persons with disability in terms of modified laptops, voice activated programs and other Key Highlights of FY 13-14 assistive applications. Persons with disability voluntarily declare their disability through a Self-Identification Form ensuring complete transparency. In order to promote inclusivity, Wipro is has institutionalized a reasonable accommodation Coverage Themes Explored policy which supports employees in performing their primary job responsibilities and drives equal opportunities and benefits. 1500 + women employees Women professionals' across career levels perceptions regarding factors Further, all our group announcements containing images include a text-only that impact their career attachment to facilitate our visually impaired employees to make use of the textcontinuity to-speech feature. Last year, a sign language expert helped in interpreting 'Wipro Staffing and resource Meets' in sign language to facilitate our employees with hearing disabilities. Around 80 staffing and managers' perceptions deployment managers regarding factors that impact The year 2013-14 saw significant focus on recruitment with 40 people hired career continuity of women across various Wipro entities. As on March 31st, 2014, the number of employees professionals who are Persons with Disabilities was 455. In addition, 15 campus offers were extended as part of the FY 14-15 hiring process. Top talent enablers for retaining women in the workforce Figure 12 Talent Retention Survey and Resource Managers Survey Building a sustainable workforce 73 Key Highlights of FY 13-14 Nationality Sign language interpretation introduced in Wipro-level employee communication sessions. Wipro Kinesics was launched as a one-stop-shop learning medium on the basics of sign language in the Wipro IT business environment. The online portal is Wipro’s workforce and business partners across the globe represent a rich easily accessible to employees who are spread across the globe and includes typical variety of backgrounds, skills, & cultures. Our global workforce consists of terminology prevalent in Wipro environment. 47 campus hires attended training employees in 59 countries and from 101 nationalities. sensitivity building on Diversity & Inclusion and on creating accessible software. Over Over the years, we have cultivated a strong ‘local national’ footprint in our 87 intranet applications and Wipro.com website are accessible, complying with international geographies, and nearly 40% of our workforce at overseas (outside WCAG2.0 guidelines. Digital accessibility web chat conducted for the IT-BPM India) locations comprises local nationals. We have invested in specialized online industry under the aegis of NASSCOM. Initiatives in the space of persons with tools such as ‘Globe Smart’ to develop sensitivity towards various cultures. disabilities charter featured on CNN-IBN. Wipro sponsored two sportspersons for the Para Table Tennis Thailand Open 2013 that was held in Bangkok. Additionally, employees travelling to overseas locations are mandated to participate in a 2-day classroom based ‘Onsite Readiness Program’ which includes a module on cultural sensitivity. Awards While promoting a culture of meritocracy, we also take cognizance of global legal ? 2013: ASIA-PAC Region DISABILITY MATTERS Conference & Awards. requirements and regulations with respect to diversity and inclusion. We also ? 2013: ESCAP-Sasakawa Award for Disability-Inclusive Business in Asia and the have partnerships with key private talent management vendors to assist us in Pacific developing action plans. ? 2013: Nupur Jain from Wipro learning and development team won the National Awards for the Empowerment of Persons with Disabilities, 2013, under the category – Role Model Awards Career Development & Career Planning ? 2013: National Awards for the Empowerment of Persons with Disabilities, 2013, under the category – Best Accessible Website (Private Sector). Wipro’s overarching philosophy is to provide learning avenues to all employees ? 2013: 15th NCPEDP-Shell Helen Keller Awards under Category – Role Model Companies/Organizations. to build professional careers. Our people are our most important asset and the ? 2013: Ankit Jain from Wipro Strategic Marketing team wins 15th NCPEDP-Shell organization strategy is to build and retain a high performing workforce aligned Helen Keller Awards under Category – Individual Nomination. with business goals. Career development & career planning initiatives at Wipro ? 2013: Wipro has been globally adjudged & awarded for its inclusive policies by encompass building awareness on career paths, identifying developmental areas Zero Project a UN initiative, for one of the most innovative practices. for current & aspired role, mentorship, and building capability through training & ? 2013: Asia-Pac Region ‘Disability Matters’ Honoree assessments. 74 Building a sustainable workforce Career Hub Mentoring through Learning Networks Career Hub is a one-stop-shop for all career related information and career Learning Networks is a mentoring platform, launched in 2013. It is a social planning available to employees through the company intranet. Employees can learning tool which provides a focused learning opportunity to employees to understand the range of career options available along with detailed role learn and share on specific areas. It aids employees to network which is essential descriptions including technical and behavioral competencies, certifications, to build a culture of collaboration, and also create a sense of belongingness. This knowledge and experience required for each role. The self-assessment feature unique learning concept has two features: one-to-one and many-to-many helps in identifying developmental areas for the aspired role, and can be used to mentoring. We have over 1000 mentors and 2000 mentees registered with create a developmental plan in consultation with managers. The portal also Learning Networks and over 150 mentoring connections since its launch. provides a plethora of information on policies, processes and enablers around In the last year, we also strengthened our focus on developing specialist careers. A direct link to internal job postings portal allow employees to identify & frameworks and initiatives for deep-technology experts and domain specialists. apply to suitable available opportunities. This would be a primary focus area for us during 2014-15. Since its launch, over 5200 employees have selected their ‘target’ roles on the Career Hub portal and are working towards reaching their goals. Individual Development Plan (IDP) While an individual learning plan (ILP) has been part of our annual appraisal process in the past several years, in 2013-14 we launched an integrated portal for employees to create developmental plans through multiple sources of feedback & developmental processes like appraisals, manager surveys, career hub selfassessments, and other job-specific assessments. While ILP was catering to only the behavioural learning needs, using IDP employees can create customized development plans to include on-the-job activities, stretch assignments, mentoring, e-learning, training etc. for behavioural and technical competencies, job knowledge and experience. Building a sustainable workforce 75 Employee Capability 1347 new entrants to the WASE program in 2013-14 Given the current and emerging business landscape, people expertise will emerge 692 new entrants into the as the winning differentiator for business success. This means that for us, WiSTA program in 2013-14 developing expertise in technology and domain areas and successfully leveraging Campus hire induction (Project Readiness Program – PRP) the same for our clients will determine our competitive edge in future. The PRP is a structured 3-month program offered to all campus recruits to train The large canvas of Wipro's businesses and talent management offerings gives them on essential behavioral & technical skills that prepare them to work on live people the opportunity to grow in their career by continuous learning and customer projects. In FY 13-14, the program helped us engage with over 10,000 development. We have distinct teams with separate focus on technical and new campus hires through online self-learning modules prior to their joining the domain learning and behavioral/leadership development. In 2013-14, these teams organization. The curriculum of over 70 technology streams was also better together strengthened organizational capabilities via training, e-learning, aligned to other technical frameworks in the organization like the Unified workshops, on the job learning, assessments and leadership interventions. Competency Framework (UCF). Learning needs are derived from organizational human capital strategy and competency development objectives to enhance leadership, technical and Unified Competency Framework (UCF) behavioral capability. UCF is a step-by-step competency building exercise for employees to up-skill In 2013-14, over 23,000 technical, behavioral and leadership programs were technically through structured learning & assessment. The primary focus of UCF delivered across the organization. is to create a fungible pool of technically competent employees to address business needs and to enable individuals to perform better and manage Entry Level Training Programs transitions into new roles. The level of UCF assessment is determined by each Our pioneering initiatives in the area of Work Integrated Learning continued in employee’s technical area, career level and years of experience. In FY 13-14, FY 13-14. Our programs aimed at grooming graduates into professionals armed 40,000 employees cleared their UCF certifications: 82.9% of eligible employees. with technical, professional & social skills while pursuing post-graduate degree UPgrade Skills and Competencies through Accelerated LEarning programs. The Wipro Academy of Software Excellence (WASE) program is a 4(UPSCALE) year program off-campus collaborative program from Birla Institute of Technology & Science (BITS), Pilani, Rajasthan, India and leads to a Master’s degree The UPSCALE program was launched in FY 13-14 to address changing customer in Software Engineering. For non-mathematics science graduates we also have demands of multi-skilled employees. The aim of the program is to multi-skill the Wipro Software Technology Academy (WiSTA) program in collaboration with employees on a cluster of technologies based on past demands and forecast. Vellore Institute of Technology (VIT), India leading to a Master’s in Information About 7500 employees have already completed this program and another 10,000 Technology at the end of 8 semesters. have enrolled to the program. 76 Building a sustainable workforce Assessments and Certifications collaboration, innovation and emotional resilience. The initiative was introduced in 2012 and covered over 1200 employees across India locations in 2013-14. Assessments & certifications at Wipro are a tool to identify and develop individuals for key roles. Multiple mechanisms and instruments used during these Wipro BPO’s SEED academic program programs provide a holistic view on the employee's strengths along with specific The SEED academic program helps employees enhance their academic capability. feedback on developmental areas. Equipped with this data, talent managers and The program offers a large spectrum of courses across a range of subjects in the individuals can make critical decisions and well-informed choices about choice of field of Management and Information Technology. Courses are imparted via assignments, roles, and trainings. Over 360 Program and Delivery Managers and classroom, e-learning and self-study modes and are available in India and Account Delivery Heads underwent customized role based assessment, with a International Locations. A dedicated SEED online portal provides 24x7 access to success rate of 85% in the behavioural assessments. In the technical assessments, employees and program administrators. Since 2004, SEED has enabled over 6000 the success rate ranged from 70-80%. This number includes both existing and WBPO employees shape and transform their careers, with 600 enrolments in Wipro employees and external candidates who were considered for these roles. 2013-14. The Project Manager (PM) Academy is a capability framework for building Wipro BPO’s AdvancedVideo Suite (AVS) core IT service delivery capability in middle level managers. The academy structures learning in different ways – classroom techniques, e-learning, Wipro BPO’s training team launched a video library of 50 short videos (7-10 simulations, outbound learning, opportunity for reflection and coaching minutes each), with videos ranging from articulation, to customer-centricity and programs. The range of training spans technical, domain, process and behavioral dead-air-management, to coping with night shifts. The initiative is designed to training. Project Leads, who manage small/mid-size projects with medium benefit employees with tips and refreshers of the basic tenets of communication complexity, participate in the PLCP (Project Lead Certification Program) and and customer service skills. Project Managers who lead large critical projects that are more complex, Wipro BPO’s Process Excellence and Quality Framework undertake the PMCP (Project Manager Certification Program). This is a quality process capability building framework, that is designed to The Architect Career Essentials (ACE) framework aims to provide a translate into real-time process improvements and impact the overall client transparent and structured approach towards specialist career development. experience and Wipro cost and revenue parameters. The frameworks builds The architect enablement and certification process helps to baseline and build skills, deploys people based on right skill fitment and trains project teams across skill levels for senior architects and enterprise architects. Wipro BPO on various process excellence methodologies such as Six Sigma, Learning in the Wings Lean and Kaizen. Employees then translate learning into process improvement projects that directly create business results. Over 1000 employees were trained This is an experiential-learning based initiative that brings learning to the in process excellence in FY 13-14 and they collectively undertook over 340 workplace, in the form of 3-4 hour modules that entire project teams can attend projects on lean, six sigma and replication. all-together. These modules help accelerate learning key skills on the job, such as Building a sustainable workforce 77 Manager Capability Capable managers are an essential component in driving employee engagement interventions over the last two years have led to 3% increase in the overall score and retention. Acknowledging the impact on managers at all stages in the talent on manager quality in EPS 2013, while individual questions relating to manager life-cycle, we drive multiple programs to build manager capability. Manager quality saw an improvement of 7 – 12%. effectiveness had also emerged as a key focus area in EPS 2011, and specific Manager Excellence Framework FY 13-14 witnessed higher rigor in managers utilizing the manager excellence framework as a tool for self-development of their manager effectiveness. The framework includes tools designed to address learning needs of the manager through feedback (manager insight survey), Wipro Leader's Qualities (WLQ) Survey training (process workshops), self-study (manager Wipro BPO's PATHFINDER resources) and mentoring through Learning The annual 360-degree feedback survey based on This leadership academy focuses on developmental Networks. The framework is a non-mandatory key qualities expected of an effective leader was and functional capability building through a multioffering and adoption statistics of the last 1.5 years extended to middle management, covering around level certification program. The program intends to indicate that it has gained wide popularity. Around 19000 employees across the organization. develop well-rounded leaders who will be capable 3390 manager insight surveys have been initiated of mitigating operational challenges and thereby, since the inception of the framework and over contributing to organizational growth. 4900 managers have been covered under process workshops. Managers have also utilized the framework to record employee one-to-one discussions with over 1400 discussions online on the tool. The Manager Excellence Resource Centre initiated in August 2013 was used by over 1500 users. 78 Building a sustainable workforce Leadership Development Comprehensive Benefits & Rewards Leadership Development at Wipro follows a life-stage approach to address the Wipro’s benefits package has unique value proposition for employees at all levels need for leadership competency development at various stages of an employee’s and stages of their life. This includes a variety of tax-managing options, insurance career from an individual contributor to a strategic leader. & medical packages, assistance in managing financial and personal issues, retirals, etc. Our programs are reviewed intermittently to ensure relevance to today’s All the leadership programs are linked to the WLQ survey and drive development changing workforce and mirrors the latest industry offerings. through focus on role, business partnership and consulting and research. The approach is that of long term individual development in the company of peers The compensation & benefits programs are outlined in detailed policy rather than training. Programs at higher levels are conducted in collaboration documents and are available to all employees on the company intranet. with reputed business schools and leading management thinkers. ? Emerging Leaders Program (ELP) – Entry level program ? New Leaders Program (NLP) – For junior levels to build talent management skills in potential people managers ? Wipro Leaders Program (WLP) – For mid-level managers this program assimilates WLQ into leaders who carry people and business responsibilities ? Business Leaders Program (BLP) – The program is aimed at developing critical to success business leadership amongst senior leaders ? Strategic Leaders Program (SLP) – The program is aimed to enhance strategic perspective among global leaders in top management cadre Wipro also invests in Consortium-based learning for our global leaders. The consortium brings together participants from various organizations and is aimed to address specific business challenges. The learning takes place through experience sharing in the company of peers and the content is carefully crafted based on the needs of the consortium partners involved. Building a sustainable workforce 79 Overview of Benefits Assistance in Money Management Rewarding Performance Work-life balance Medical & Insurance Benefits Retirement Wipro Benefits Plan allow employees to choose Winner’s Circle (a points based Leave options like maternity, Medical insurance for employee & PF, Gratuity, 401 (k) plan from a basket of tax-saving benefits options rewards platform for top-down and paternity, extended maternity, family, option for parental insurance, and retirement plans aligned to their individual life situations peer-to-peer recognition) annual leave, sick leave, assistance towards catastrophic for each geography in adoption leave, leave without illnesses beyond insurance coverage accordance with local pay. laws and industry best practices Moneywise(an in-house financial planning tool, Customized business unit rewards Sabbatical leave program Medical Concierge (Online portal for Options to enroll in kiosks), Finstat (detailed statements on earnings, & recognition mechanisms (unpaid study leave for OPD appointment, Cashless voluntary pension deductions, benefits etc. for better planning & maximum 2 years) Hospitalization, Pharmacy discounts schemes, new pension analysis) and Discounted Health Checkups). schemes and superannuation schemes Interest free loans for house deposit, buying Integrated social recognition to Half-day half-pay working Medical Assistance Scheme to provide Retirement planning vehicles, marriage and emergency requirements celebrate achievements with peers arrangements on-review basis for domiciliary medical expenses. tools and friends Group personal accident insurance, group term life cover, survivor benefit program Wipro Advantage – special price tie-ups for Locally curated catalogue with over Work from home option also Extensive Top Up Cover options to go Continuity of basic various product lifestyle, health & financial 5 million products globally for available beyond the specified insurance cover medical benefits upon categories employees to redeem their points at low price retirement 80 Building a sustainable workforce Benefits Fest Medical Insurance A comprehensive advocacy and awareness program held across locations, to assist employees in selecting and availing Wipro’s wellness and benefits offerings. Medical insurance is an instrument for hedging future contingent risks In FY 13-14, the various on-ground events like vaccinations, health check-ups, associated with health, life and general issues. Ensuring our employees immunization programs, diet consultations etc. were conducted. Awareness was obtain the maximum benefit of insurance benefits available,Wipro provides driven through specialty kiosks, on-floor sessions and online events. Nearly 8500 a total insurance package which includes Health insurance, Accident employees participated in on-ground events across locations, around 4500 Insurance, Life insurance and Parent and Parent in-law Medical Insurance. availed medical check-ups and nearly 4000 participated in floor-walk events. Health insurance is available for the immediately family including self, spouse and children. All employees have a basic mandatory cover for the family Employee well-being and safety towards which a nominal premium is deducted from the salary every month. Additionally, employees can also opt to avail top-up coverage which enables cover for any additional medical expenses. Wipro has made efforts to ensure that all aspects of an employee’s life are Accident insurance protects income in the event of disability due to positively influenced whether it is physical, mental or emotional well-being. accident and also includes a component of survivor benefit. The premiums Employee well-being is a core component of our organizational philosophy and for accident and life insurance are borne by the company but employees this is reflected in our approach towards, health & safety, workplace security, have an option to increase this base cover by paying a nominal annual fitness and family inclusive initiatives. premium. Wipro also provides pre-negotiated medical policies for parents and Mitr parents-in-law which the employees can choose to buy. The premium amounts as well as policy benefits are amongst the best in the market, and Mitr completed 11 years in FY 14-15. Our Employee Assistance program also cover expenses which usually are not included in retail policies offered (EAP) for emotional counseling as well as specialist legal and financial advice in the market beyond a certain age. in India has grown over the years and touched many lives. Mitr enables employees to reach out to trained counselors (both internal and external) to discuss and share their thoughts on any issues in their personal or professional life which could be affecting them in any way. Building a sustainable workforce 81 Health & Wellness Employee Safety Our Fit for Life wellness initiative for employees was sustained via wellness Scheduled programs held across locations on emergency response, mock sessions, a customized newsletter and communication via mailers. There evacuation drills, violent action drills, life saving techniques and gender were on the ground activities conducted for various factions like health sensitization. Cab pickup and drop facility for women employees travelling check-ups, sessions on women health, vaccination camps etc. The “Parent late in the night or early morning. Women of Wipro committees were to be” program launched in 2012-13 was well received, with over 1500 formed to discuss concerns and suggestions on women's safety. Women enrolments till date. The program proved to be useful in reducing Employee Security Awareness and Self Defense sessions conducted across maternity complications and providing guidance and assistance to expecting locations. Fire Safety Week was observed, with chats with senior fire parents. The pre-employment medical check-up was changed to a joining department and National Disaster Response Force officials and benefit for new employees, as part of a more inclusive and proactive demonstrations by their teams. Vehicle based Quick Reaction Teams approach to employee health awareness and management. Medi-assist deployed in Sarjapur, Pune, CDC and GNDC to ensure safe commute and Healthcare services carried out assessments of our Occupational Health extend help during emergencies. Help extended to employees outside the Centers at all major locations. Available at 22 locations across India, these campus for police support and in case of medical emergencies Women Occupational Health Centers provide amenities ranging from basic First Aid contract employees on service provider rolls at our Greater Noida facility to emergency care units. Integrated Risk Assessments were carried out to were provided safe commute in Wipro cabs. On-going advocacy via event identify and mitigate workplace accidents and other incidents. Employees, such as the Security Awareness month, online quiz and ready access to service providers and other stakeholders participate in these. Employees Emergency Response team member details on the intranet. participated in events such as Food Safety programs, Ergonomic sessions 0.372 and medical consultations with specialist doctors. As part of a 0.400 0.321 0.317 0.350 comprehensive training and preparedness approach, functional teams were 0.300 trained on Health & Safety, Safe Transportation, Hospitality, Security and 0.250 0.184 0.167 Technical and Soft skills. 0.200 0.135 0.150 0.100 0.050 0.000 2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 IIR (excl personal transport) IIR (incl personal transport) 82 Building a sustainable workforce Lost day rate We are setting up better /integrated MIS and reporting to calculate lost days Advocacy Events across functions. The lost day rate for injuries excluding personal transport/commute related is 0.330. A host of activities held at various locations to observe and celebrate World Environment Week,World Earth Day,World Water Day, National Safety Day and International Day for the Preservation of the Ozone Layer. Kids@Wipro Wipro’s family inclusivity program continued to spread it wings with many Occupational Diseases Rate innovative workshops. New Kids@Wipro chapters were started in Hyderabad and Chennai. The initiative is now becoming thematic and This is based on the the number of illness cases which can be attributed to focuses on life skills and programs that build empathy towards all living work .The top illnesses for people visiting the in-house occupational health beings and a respect for the environment and society. center (OHC) are mainly related to upper respiratory and ergonomic. The first illness may not be completely attributed to work environment or Crèche nature of work. However considering the nature of the job in the services In order to enable working parents to continue with their careers,Wipro industry and the symptoms reported (upper limb injury) one can attribute has several tie-ups with crèches across different cities in India like a higher correlation to the occupation for ergonomic illnesses. Bangalore, Hyderabad, and Pune. We have an in house crèche at Pune and Starting this reporting year, we will report only ergonomic cases reported are about to open one in Chennai. Wipro does a due-diligence of the to OHC for occupational diseases. We had 697 ergonomic related cases crèches that we tie up with due to which employees can comfortably trust which had treatments/interventions lasting more than a day. The those institutions. Further, attractive discounts are also offered to Wipro occupational diseases rate is 0.457 for the reporting year. employees. There are a number of crèches near the offices as well as city locations which our employees can choose from. Building a sustainable workforce 83 Building sustainable communities Project Siyapha in South Africa Wipro is committed to sharing our success with the communities we operate in. Through initiatives like the Rural BPO program and Project Siyapha in South Wipro is mindful of the impact our operations have on society, and to create a Africa, Wipro has enabled employment opportunities and capacity building difference in local communities, we realized the need of a consolidated approach amongst young graduates in local communities. rather than isolated measures. In South Africa, the community responsibility effort has been aligned under a single initiative called ‘Siyapha’, which means ‘we give’ or ‘to share’ in the local language Xhosa. Project Siyapha comprises of four Rural BPO at Manjakkudi key pillars and aims at providing skill development for youth, computer literacy in rural schools and creating sustainable jobs in the country. The focus and content Wipro's rural BPO center was launched in 2011 as a Back Office to Back Office of these programs is driven by current and expected skill levels and has resulted in Model as the result of a tie-up with Swami Dayananda Education Trust. The trust increasing the employability of individuals who undergo these programs. The strives to provide quality education to the economically backward regions of program has so far created 92 jobs since its inception 2 years ago. Tamil Nadu.The center completed 3 years in 2014 and from an initial strength of 50 employees, it grew to 100 employees in year two, and year 3 boasts of around 150 employees. The center has enabled creation of job opportunities and in turn reduced the migration of youth to urban areas. 84 Building a sustainable workforce PwD Program in Brazil Diversity & Inclusion is a way of life at Wipro. While local legal requirements assist in developing and driving actions in certain countries, our commitment to building a diverse and inclusive workforce shapes these initiatives beyond statutory requirements. In Brazil, we have tied up with a specialized agency to assist in the recruitment of persons with disabilities and minorities to ensure compliance with Brazilian law. Workshops have also been organized across projects to educate & sensitize Wiproites on inclusivity. A 4-month in-house training program was built to enhance skills and capabilities of persons with Employee Volunteering disabilities and to assist in their retention & motivation. Regular one to one In 2013-14, a total of around 4000 meetings are also conducted by HR to ensure assimilation and to understand and volunteering hours were put in by 10 chapters address any challenges faced. In the last three years, we have recruited over 20 in India and 3 overseas chapters. employees with disabilities in Brazil. Building a sustainable workforce 85 Present day, Russia The Disappearing Aral Sea In 1991, the Soviet government collapsed and took along with it, the rich waters of the Aral Sea. Located between Kazakhstan and Uzbekistan, this large water body gave life to the deserts of Central Asia, and was home to at least a hundred types of aquatic species. Today, it has lost 80% of its volume, and is almost one ffth its original size. It started when the Soviets diverted River Amu and River Syr — the two sources of water for the Aral — for irrigation. With its water supply cut off, the Aral Sea started evaporating and its animal species slowly disappeared. Today the waters of the Aral sea have bifurcated, leaving a long, dry expanse of desert land in between. ? These satellite images, taken between 2000 and 2013, show the fnal stages of the Aral Sea’s drainage, which began with Soviet water diversions just as the Nimbus satellites captured images of the lake in the 1960s. Now, scientists have recovered those early views. Ecological Sustainability 5c.Ecological Sustainability 5c Wipro’s ecological sustainability program directly addresses four of the eight ? Acknowledge issues, explore alternatives and prioritize responses specific to megaforces. It is an integral part within many of our key programs, internal and the context external and across stakeholders. Resource efficiency –materials, energy, water and waste management and pollution mitigation have been the principal levers of any corporate organization’s environmental program. However this has changed Environmental Reporting: over the past decade with the increasing centrality of issues like climate change, Scope and Management Systems water stress and urban environmental challenges. Organizations have come to realize that externalizing the costs of ecological impact is a poor idea in the long The environmental reporting covers all our operations globally. run.The first step in this is to understand life cycle impacts of our complete value chain and how it can inform program design and stakeholder engagement. The energy, water and waste reporting for India, which is around 80% of our operations, is based on actual consumption data.The energy data for overseas is Through the natural capital valuation exercise (covered under the sub section based on actual consumption for 60% of our overseas locations.The energy data “Lifecycle impacts”), we have attempted to get an overall integrated for the balance overseas locations as well as water, waste and commute for all environmental impact assessment of our operations and upstream suppliers.We overseas locations is estimated based on regional intensity figures. continue to explore additional and specific quantitative and qualitative metrics to evaluate water (see sub section “Responsible Water Framework”) and waste India: 68 locations comprising of 28 owned and 40 leased facilities of Wipro management in our campuses. We also would aim to baseline and set specific Technologies,Wipro InfoTech and Wipro BPO. goals to reduce footprint of key Scope 3 categories (like emissions from Business Overseas: 83 locations, which includes 8 customer datacenters. All the Wipro Travel and Commute), Ozone depleting refrigerants, indoor air quality and noise overseas offices operate out of leased facilities – we have energy consumption pollution. data available for 77% of the facilities by seat capacity while for the balance 23% Our program is built on four pillars: Energy efficiency and GHG mitigation,Water we have used done extrapolations based on assumptions to arrive at best efficiency and responsible use,Waste management and Biodiversity. estimates. The uncertainty due to these extrapolations is estimated to be less than 1% (See our CDP 2014 repor t for more details Our journey in ecological sustainability reinforces some foundational principles: https://www.cdproject.net/en-US/Results/Pages/responses.aspx). We are only ? Both the environmental impacts and outcomes of measures we implement reporting energy consumption from purchased electricity for overseas offices. are multiple and interrelated The consumption of other energy heads like heating and cooling is negligible. ? The need to assess programs though different measurements, metrics and Since these are multi-tenanted leased spaces, utility data is now always tracked at rigorous goal setting Wipro level for the location. Ecological Sustainability 89 Environmental Management Systems Environmental Aspects and engagements across Wipro’s stakeholders We have been following the guidelines of the ISO 14001 standard for more than a decade now as one of the cornerstones of our Environmental Management The dashboard below provides a summary of approaches and programs across System (EMS). The standard, progressively implemented across all of our large different ecological dimensions and stakeholders. It is clear from the campuses, has provided a framework to create an environmental policy, identify representation below that an organization and its operations are not isolated key aspects and set goals, ensure regulatory compliance and enable the right from the environment. The risks, whether arising from ecological issues like governance structures for effective review and feedback. Over the years, the climate change, water stress, urban growth and biodiversity, are of relevance to all ISO14001 system has been embedded into the internal practices and processes our stakeholders. Our responses, though contextual, would be informed by the and is now being consistently applied across the smaller and/or leased office central principles of responsible citizenship and engagement with all space operations. stakeholders. This section covers programs specific to Wipro’s operations. The 22 of our campus sites in India & 2 leased sites in Australia are certified other sections: “Responsible Investment”, “Customer Stewardship”, “Education to the standards of ISO 14001:2004. and Community”,“Workplace” and “Ethical Supply Chain” cover the integration of ecological sustainability aspects for relevant stakeholder groups. EMS Certification: by Employee Occupancy 9% 10% 5% 76% Certified Locations Leased Offices Due for Certification Client Offices 90 Ecological Sustainability Stakeholders Civil Society Wipro Operations Employees Investors / Customers / Supply Chain Government Future > Aspect V Generations Infrastructure design In India, Service sector contributes to more than 60% of GDP and 30% of labor Regulation environment and maintenance which occupation. like the Energy integrates emissions Conservation Building reduction and energy Investor led sustainability frameworks like Carbon Disclosure Project and the Code (ECBC), Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI) cover environmental aspects. renewable energy See “Energy efficiency procurement and journey and GHG See Investor section for more details generation. efficiency Energy mitigation plans” measures efficiency measures Understanding water Employees residing in Supply chain program of customers, extended responsibility Industry and supply footprint, sources mix the vicinity of our Participative Aquifer chain platforms like ecovadis, EICC, Sedex, CDP supply chain. mapping project – a and developing operations are key responses based on the stakeholders who could community centered be impacted. program on ground Demand management water management See “Responsible water Trucost study on natural capital valuation points to the fact that externalities requires user framework for account for nearly 50% of the total environmental impact for Wipro.This is across Water (employee) centric campuses” emissions, water abstraction and pollution, air pollution, land use and waste. Supply behavioral interventions chain engagement hence is a core element of operational environmental programs. Segregation of different Reducing footprint at Community programs point of generation and See Supply chain section for more details waste streams and on waste segregation downstream segregation at source and capacity building management with requires user supply chain ecosystem (employee) centric Waste behavioral interventions Integrated planning on In-campus biodiversity Biodiversity landscape architecture programs are a conservation and integrates biodiversity platform for employee ecosystem services aspects with water engagement in are primary interest footprint, soil quality, conservation and areas with civil society chemicals management citizen science areas Biodiversity/ and energy use. organisations. Land use and Land change Ecological Sustainability 91 Lifecycle impacts GHG Emissions Impact Contribution Category % Rank (Physical quantities in Companies best positioned to compete in the future will be those that are able to contribution Kilo tons of CO2 equiv) decouple growth from unsustainable dependency on vulnerable natural 1 Operations 270 K tons resources. .And the first step is to measure and understand full life cycle impacts (Scope 1 and Scope 2) Contributed by: 34% across the value chain. 216 K tons (India) Actuals Partially 54 K tons (Rest of World) extrapolated Natural capital can be defined as the world’s stocks of natural resources which Business Travel 2 103 K tons 13% make human life possible. Businesses rely on this natural capital to produce goods (Scope 3) and deliver services.The overall objective of the project, completed in association 3 Employee commute 110 K tons 14% with Trucost, is to quantity and value the natural capital impacts and dependencies (Scope 3) of Wipro’s IT Services operations and supply chain for the 2013-14 financial year 4 Use of Sold Products 117 K tons 14% The valuation looks at all our global operational footprint (from energy related (Scope 3 emissions, water consumption, air/water pollution, waste generation and 5 Fuel and energy related 134 K tons 17% management, land use change) and upstream value chain sources like business activities (Scope 3) travel, employee commute and the embedded natural capital in all goods and services we procure. Operational data, business data and employee commute Estimated based on econometric models: valuation mainly relies on actual data, extrapolated for a few global locations and 6 Purchased goods & 65 K tons 8% environmental categories.The natural capital embedded in goods and services is services (Scope 3) primarily based on valuation methodology that is based on Trucosts econometric Other Scope 3 Minor Input-Output model which takes into account spend across different subWaste, Upstream logistics categories of procurement. Total 799 K tons Operational energy footprint, directly and indirectly through upstream energy related emissions, contributes to nearly 51% of total emissions footprint, with business travel and commute contributing to nearly 27% of emissions. Purchased good and services contribute to a relatively lesser proportion (8%) of the life cycle carbon impact. This distribution is likely to change in future years as the emissions from use of sold products are expected to drop significantly. 92 Ecological Sustainability Water Pollution – Water and Air Impact Contribution Impact Contribution Category % Rank Category % Rank (Physical quantities in (Physical quantities in contribution contribution tons) tons ) 1 Operations 1813 tons of air pollutants 1 Operations 2.39 Mn Liters 38% Air Pollution Contributed by: Contributed by: Actuals 1413 tons (India) Calculated based on quantity of fuel used & LCA 1.87 Mn Liters (India) emission factors Extrapolated 400 tons (Rest of World) Extrapolated based on number 0.52 Mn Liters based on number of employees? (Rest of World) of employees Operations 1.4 Mn Liters of Based on amount of dilution Water Pollution grey water equivalent required on water discharged to Estimated based on econometric models: environment to bring it to Contributed by: acceptable standard (Grey Water 2 Purchased goods & 2.74 Mn Liters 44% 1.1Mn liters grey water equiv (India) Footprint) services (Scope 3) 0.3Mn Liters grey water equiv (India) 2 Purchased goods & services 450 tons 3 Fuel and energy related 1.13 Mn Liters 18% 3 Fuel & energy related 3631 tons activities (Scope 3) activities – Air Pollution Fuel & energy related 0.85 Mn Liters of grey water equivalent Total 6.26 Mn Liters activities – Water Pollution 4 Business Travel & Employee 2664 tons Commute – Air pollution Total xxx tons Waste Impact Contribution Rank Category (Physical quantities in % Land use change contribution tons) Impact Contribution % Rank Category (Physical quantities contribution 1 Operations 4549 tons 26% in tons) Contributed by: Actuals 3698 tons (India) 1 Operations 353 ha 12% 851 tons (Rest of World) Extrapolated Contributed by: based on number 275 ha (India) Actual operational of employees footprint 78 ha (Rest of World) Allocated based on Estimated based on econometric models: overseas facility footprint 2 Purchased goods 3681 tons 21% 2 Purchased goods 2226 ha 65% and services and services 3 Fuel and energy related 9295 tons 53% 3 Fuel and energy 828 ha 25% activities (Scope 3) related activities Total 17525 tons Total 3407 ha Ecological Sustainability 93 Goals and Performance Dashboard Aspect Performance Visions and goals forSummary future Reporting includes all Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions globally. ? Energy and Carbon: Report on 9 all 10 the applicable Scope 3 categories. As part of our five year goals ending 2014-15, we aim to reduce our GHG intensity to 1.3 metric tons per employee from Reduction in energy intensity per employee by 5.2 % to 233 ? the baseline figure of 2.42 in 201-11.This is applicable to all our office space facilities. units from 2012-13. Scope 3: Starting this year, we are disclosing on all 10 of the applicable Scope 3 categories.The estimated coverage of the Reduction in emissions intensity per employee for Scope 1 & ? reporting is estimated to be nearly 95%.We plan to set up goals for the top Scope 3 impact categories in 2014. 2 : 2.8 % to 1.80 tons from 2012-13. Reduction in absolute emissions for Scope 1 & 2 India offices: ? 1.8 % from 2012-13. RE contributes to more than 21 % of total office space ? consumption. Measures across Energy efficiency, RE, travel substitution and ? virtualization have helped in GHG savings of nearly 141031 tons Water : The per employee water consumption for the reporting year ? At Wipro, we view water from the three inter-related lens of Conservation, Responsibility and Security; our articulated is 1.46 m3 per month, a 7.1 % reduction when compared with goals are therefore predicated on these three dimensions. 1.57 m3 in year 2012-13. We recycle 886731 m3 of water in 24 of our major locations, ? Improve water efficiency (fresh water Recognizing water availability as a business risk, to proactively assess and (839389 for 23 locations in 2010-11) using Sewage Treatment use per employee) by 5% year on year. plan for the water security of the Plants (STPs). The percentage of this recycled water as a Water organization in a manner that is percentage of freshwater extracted is around 47%. Responsibility congruent with other two goals. The reduction in freshwater consumption has been primarily ? through better water accounting, demand side optimization and increasing water governance through involvement of facility teams. Water Water Efficiency Security Responsible Water framework implemented across 4 ? Responsible Sourcing: To ensure responsible water management in proximate communities, especially in locations. locations that are prone to water scarcity. Participative Aquifer mapping program launched in a ? watershed , which also covers our corporate headquarters. 94 Ecological Sustainability Aspect VisionsPerformance and goals forSummary future 92% of the total waste from our IT India operations is ? Solid Waste: recycled -through both, in-house recycling units and through The below goals have been set on the basis of an extensive independent audit done during 2012-13.While our earlier goal authorized vendor tie-ups. centered around only the aggregate level of recycling, the recalibrated goals seek to be more granular and are set at a We will start reporting on category specific goals from 14-15. ? category level. This will require close working of operations teams with partners who have differentiated capabilities across the different waste streams and jointly explore areas of improvement. We aim to baseline air pollution metrics in 14-15 and arrive at ? three to five year road map. Air pollution is closely linked to ? 100% of organic waste to be handled in-house at owned locations by end of 14-15 energy reduction goals, especially from Scope 1 sources ? 100% of paper, cardboard, hazardous and e-waste, mixed metals/scrap and plastics to be recycled/ handled as per (Generated power through DG sets). approved methods by end of 14-15. ? Reduce Mixed solid waste intensity to half by 2017 (3 year target) as compared to 13-14 ? Reduce landfill intensity to half by 2017 (3 year target) as compared to 13-14 Air pollution: We aim to baseline air pollution metrics in 14-15 and arrive at three to five year road map. Air pollution is closely linked to energy reduction goals, especially from Scope 1 sources (Generated power through DG sets). Biodiversity: The completed butterfly park in EC campus in Bengaluru is ? now host to many species of flora and fauna – including being As an organization with large campuses in urban settings, we are acutely conscious of our responsibility towards urban biodiversity and have set for ourselves the following goals. a resting place for the annual migratory butterflies. We have started a process of regularly conducting a species census in ? To convert five of our existing campuses to biodiversity zones by 2015. the butterfly park. Over the 14 month period from April 2013 ? All new campuses will incorporate biodiversity principles into their design to May 2014, 26 butterfly, 17 bird, 5 dragon fly and 3 bee species have been sighted in the park. The park has 22 larval host plants and 32 nectaring plants. We have started work on the campus biodiversity project for ? two of our Pune campuses – PDC 1 and 2. Biodiversity surveys were conducted in the winter, summer and monsoon seasons and recommendations provided on native landscaping retrofits. Ecological Sustainability 95 Energy and Carbon Performance Summary ? Reporting includes all Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions globally. Report on 9 all 10 the applicable Scope 3 categories. ? Reduction in energy intensity per employee by 5.2 % to 233 units from 201213. ? Reduction in emissions intensity per employee for Scope 1 & 2 : 2.8 % to 1.80 tons from 2012-13. ? Reduction in absolute emissions for Scope 1 & 2 for India offices: 1.8 % from Goals: 2012-13. As part of our five year goals ending 2014-15, we aim to reduce our GHG ? RE contributes to 19% of total office space consumption. intensity to 1.3 metric tons per employee from the baseline figure of 2.42 ? Measures across Energy efficiency, RE, travel substitution and virtualization in 201-11. This is applicable to all our office space facilities. have helped in GHG savings of nearly 141031 tons. The dashboard below provides a trajectory of our global carbon emissions intensity goals for office spaces (absolute and per employee intensity) and 3.00 the contribution of renewable energy to achieve the same: 2.50 2.00 1.50 10-11 % Reduction KPI (Baseline) 11-12 12-13 13-14 14-15 wrt baseline 1.00 0.50 Absolute emissions 221999 207359 198610 192767 162189 27% Sc 1 + Sc 2 (MT) 0.00 2010-11 2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 MT per employee per annum 2.42 2.1 1.9 1.7 1.3 46.30 % Target 2.42 2.10 1.90 1.70 1.30 Total RE target (Mn KwH) 25 64 96 136 160 Actual 2.42 2.00 1.85 1.80 1.30 96 Ecological Sustainability Absolute Emissions Profile SCOPE 1 SCOPE 2 45000 40000 35000 250000 30000 25000 200000 20000 150000 15000 100000 10000 5000 50000 0 2011 -12 India 2011 -12 Global 2012 -13 India 2012 -13 Global 2013 -14 India 2013 -14 Global 0 30907 30907 42105 42105 32379.91 32380 2352 2352 2026 2026 1891.63 1892 174715 214440 160924 202371 174407 214743 3052 3052 9088 9088 5058 5058 Generated Electricity Fuel (LPG & Coal) Fugitive Emissions (HFC, PFC) Purchased Electricity SCOPE 3 TOTAL 120000 460000 100000 450000 80000 440000 60000 430000 40000 420000 20000 410000 0 400000 2011 -12 India 2011 -12 Global 2012 -13 India 2012 -13 Global 2013 -14 India 2013 -14 Global 367 367 620 620 588 588 390000 98093 98093 98347 98347 85860 85860 380000 2011 -12 India 2011 -12 Global 2012 -13 India 2012 -13 Global 2013 -14 India 2013 -14 Global 99857 99857 91446 91446 103100 103100 409343 449068 404556 446003 403285 443621 Waste Employee Commute Business Travel Total Ecological Sustainability 97 Scope 1 and Scope 2 Emissions Tons of CO2 eq, Percentage 45451.06, 18% Three year Absolute Emissions Profile Includes comparable scope 3 categories from previous years The Scope 1 and 2 emissions profile split by office spaces and data centers is as follows: 210793.42, 82% Ofice Space Data Centers Scope 3 Emissions Three year Absolute Emissions Profile Includes comparable scope 3 categories from previous years The Scope 1 and 2 emissions profile split by office spaces and data centers is as follows: Sources of Scope 3 Visions calculation Emissions and goals for future methodology Evaluation status Metric Tonnes Co2e emissions Purchased goods Relevant, calculated 64828 Estimated based on category spend data. See explanations below and services Capital goods Relevant, explanation provided 0 Included under ‘Purchased goods and services” Fuel-and-energy-related Relevant, calculated 134805 Well to tank and T&D losses. See explanations below. activities (not included in Scope 1 or 2) Upstream Relevant, calculated 1674 From import of ICT equipment. See explanations below transportation and distribution 98 Ecological Sustainability Sources of Scope 3 Visions calculation Emissions and goals for future methodology Evaluation status Metric Tonnes Co2e emissions Waste generated Relevant, calculated 588 Based on emission factor for nearly 35 categories of waste under in operations broader categories of organic, inorganic, e-waste, hazardous and other mixed wastes.For computing GHG emissions from Waste, we have applied the conversion factors available in the WARM (Waste Reduction Model) tool from U.S. EPA ( Environmental Protection Agency) Business travel Relevant, calculated 103100 Employee commuting Relevant, calculated 85860 Upstream leased assets Relevant, calculated 0 Incorporated under Scope 1 and 2 reporting Downstream Not relevant, explanation provided transportation and distribution Processing of Not relevant, explanation provided sold products Use of sold products Relevant, calculated 116856 The calculations for this is based on energy consumption (power rating) for all desktop and laptop products, split by Energy Star and non Energy Star 5 compliant, based on a usage of 8 hours per day over an assumed lifetime of 5 years. End of life treatment Relevant, calculated 1.40 Through our e-waste take back program we have collected 140 tons of of sold products electronic end of life in 2013-14, which also includes some non-Wipro products sold as part of integrated IT services projects. The emission from the e-waste disposal is estimated at 1.40 tons of CO2 equivalent (as per US EPA’s WARM tool emission factor). All e-waste is collected and recycled by authorised recyclers. Downstream leased assets Not relevant, explanation provided Franchises Not relevant, explanation provided Investments Not relevant, explanation provided TOTAL 507,712 Ecological Sustainability 99 New Scope 3 reporting heads Performance Update for 2013-14 Purchased goods and services As detailed earlier in the goals section, the intensity metrics provided in this section are only for Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions pertaining to our campus This is largely based on disclosure and modelled estimates of the top 85% facilities/office spaces providing business IT services. suppliers by spend. Nearly 50% of the data is from actual disclosures of companies and the balance is modelled. The model estimate is based on External Agency’s In India, energy consumption per employee showed a 5.2 % decrease over the database of environmental data from 4000+ companies and a hybridised inputprevious year, from 246 units in 12-13 to 233 units per employee per month in 13output econometric model based on different environmental resources and 14. At a global level, the comparative figures were 239 units for 12-13 and 231 business activities -applied to spend data across different procurement units for 13-14 registering a 3.4 % improvement. categories. Fuel and Energy Related activities Office Intensity (KWH/Emp./Month) These are emissions related to grid electricity Well to Tank (before generation) 265 and transmission and distribution losses in the grid. For fuels, it includes Well to 260 Tank emissions. Emissions are based on units of electricity and fuel actually 255 consumed, applying emission factors for Well to tank and T&D losses from 250 DEFRA(UK). 245 240 Upstream transportation and distribution 235 These are emissions related to import of IT hardware and equipment company 230 owned as well as customer provided/owned assets.The upstream transporation 225 emissions from other category of products/goods used for operations is 220 expected to be another 20-30% of these emissions. Data collection mechanisms 215 2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 are being refined for these categories 258 246 233 255 239 231 India Global 100 Ecological Sustainability GHG Emissions Intensity: Comparative The 1.9 % reduction in emissions intensity on per employee basis for global office space as compared to 2012-13 is driven by to key measures: three year analysis 1. Energy efficiency measures contributed to 3.4 % decrease in energy intensity per employee for India office spaces.This is due to Emissions Intensity a. Decentralization of operation controls for select areas and operations like chillers, lights and lifts, installation of timer controls to avoid unnecessary CO2 eq. Tons Per Employee Per Annum CO2 eq. Kg per square foot per annum 2.5 19 usage 47 b. Retrofit of older equipment with more energy efficient equipment 2.0 15 c. Consolidation of operations accompanied by a transition from leased to 1.5 13 owned facilities with the resulting increase in overall utilization of office 11 space 1.0 d. Higher quality maintenance operations 9 0.5 2. Increase in share of Renewable Energy from 19 % to 22 % of the total office 7 0.0 5 energy consumption 2011-12 (incl. RE) 2012-13 (incl. RE) 2013-14 (incl. RE) 1.98 1.83 1.77 One of the key measures through which we have reduced emissions intensity (by 1.95 1.76 1.72 employee) and maintained a nearly flat absolute Scope1 and Scope 2 emission’s 11.83 11.51 11.95 (by area, only 0.25% increase compared to previous year) is through consolidation of operations in energy efficient owned campuses. This Emission Intensity Emission Intensity Emission per consolidation has happened through movement out of leased spaces; in the India Global Square Foot-India reporting year we have moved out of 6 leased spaces translating to a floor space reduction of 4.5% from the previous reporting year.This sharp decrease has led to this increase in the per area emissions intensity metric.by 3.8% and per area energy intensity by about 2.8 %. The below charts provide a split of emissions across our two main IT business divisions and the sources of energy. IT hardware energy consumption is a small component (amounting to less than 1%) and is included in office space energy profile. Ecological Sustainability 101 Emissions Split Global Energy Profile Inside the Organization By office space and Data centers India and Rest of World 250000 350000 GHG (Tons of CO2 equiv.) 200000 300000 150000 250000 100000 200000 50000 150000 0 100000 India RoW India RoW Office Space Data Center 50000 196300 5273 9332 34453 0 191638 9346 11391 32101 Biogas Solar Heater LPG Charcoal Purchased Solar PV Diesel(L) Purchased 189871 11801 16916 28535 Electricity for Elec. Electricity NonRenewable Non-Renewable Renewable Grid Renewable Emission Emission Emission Heating Electricity 11-12/incl. RE 12-13/incl. RE 13-14/incl. RE 0 979 5831 0 0 0 30596 277305 85 1245 8614 10 25000 0 32267 308207 52 1332 9661 228 55500 280 38847 301475 Our global energy profile predominantly comprises of grid electricity (86%) – out 52 1332 8296 207 62882 280 51297 293064 of which 15% is from renewable PPA (power purchase agreements). Captive generation of electricity through Diesel generators contributes to another 12%. The balance energy is consumed through small amounts for heating needs for 2009-10 (MwH) 2010-11 (MwH) cooking etc. 2011-12 (MwH) 2012013 (MwH) 102 Ecological Sustainability Our GHG mitigation program Energy efficiency measures: Our five year GHG mitigation strategy consists of three key elements – Energy Over the preceding five year period, we have implemented a variety of energy Efficiency, Renewable Energy (RE) Purchase and Captive RE ; of this, strategic RE efficiency measures. procurement will contribute the maximum to GHG emission reductions. The visual below depicts a graphic representation of this strategy. Green Buildings We were one of the early adopters of Green Building Design with 19 of our 5% current buildings certified to the international LEED standard (Silver, Gold, and 15% Platinum). 80% Server Virtualization Since 2007, we have been working on a server rationalization and virtualization program, through which we have decommissioned old physical servers and replaced the processing capacity with virtualization technology on fewer numbers of servers. As of March 2014, we have 1990 virtual servers running on 117 physical servers contributing to an energy savings of approximately 8.7 Million units annually. This assumes a saving of 0.75 KW/hour for every physical Renewable Energy Energy Efficiency Renewable Energy server avoided.This, we believe, is a conservative estimate considering that many Purchase Generation servers run for 7 days a week and the power rating ranges from 0.75 Kw to 1 Kw (we have considered the lower power rating for the savings estimate calculation). Estimated GHG Savings in the reporting period in tons Co2 Energy Efficiency Measures 70000 Over the years great impetus has been given on reducing our energy 60000 consumption of our location by bringing in various operational efficiency in our Mitigation Programs 50000 operation, switiching over to energy efficient lighting across our campuses, 40000 automating our utility operations, correcting our design inefficiency through 30000 regular audits and roll out of energy savings initiatives. rooms, we have 20000 streamlined our energy consumption portfolio and we have been successful in 10000 reducing our energy consumption through various initiatives by adopting energy efficient lighting, streamline our utility operations through automatized control, 0 improving our maintenance methodology there by achieving a significant Renewable Energy Energy Efficiency Server Procurement Measures Virtualisation reduction of energy consumption year on year. Ecological Sustainability 103 Renewable Energy: Business Travel and Commute: Strategic procurement The IT services outsourcing model require frequent travel to customer locations, mainly overseas, across the delivery life cycle . Business Travel and commute Our five year plan (2009-10 to 2014-15) is to scale-up the sourcing of RE to 161 together contribute to around 27% of our overall emissions footprint. Policies on million units from clean power technologies, a more than six times increase. For usage of different modes of travel based on distance and time taken, need based the reporting period of 2013-14, we procured 71 Mn units of Renewable energy travel approval and shift towards processes which enable travel planning by through the PPAs (Power Purchase agreements) with private producers, which employees themselves are some of the cost and process optimization measures amounted to approximately 22% of our total office space energy consumption. implemented over past few years. Employees have various choices for commuting informed primarily by distance, RE Procurement flexibility, work timings, costs, city infrastructure and connectivity in the case of 180 group or public transport. In addition to company arranged transport (30-35%), 160 employees utilize public transport (40-45%), and own vehicles (the balance). 140 120 100 The emissions footprint for different modes of commute for employees based in 80 India is as follows: 60 40 20 Public 4 wheeler, 0 Transport, 13.0 28.0 2 wheeler, 2010-11 2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 15.5 25 56 63 71 25 64 96 136 160 RE Actual (Mn units) Re Target (Mn units) Over the past one year we have increased our renewable energy portfolio from the state of Karnataka to Chennai, Pune and Hyderabad and we have currently taken up the target of 88 million for the financial year 14-15. The key challenges Cabs, 35.0 Buses, envisaged whilst our journey for the procurement of renewable power has been 11.5 infrastructure and regulatory issues which differ from state to state. 104 Ecological Sustainability Remote collaboration and Perspectives on Energy and mobile productivity enablers GHG programs Over the years, we have launched various remote collaboration and workstation These short write-ups aim to provide views on operational challenges, areas of productivity solutions, like Internet enabled voice, tele-presence and video improvement and other governance or regulatory matters. conferencing technologies and accessibility of intranet based applications over the internet. This has resulted in a cumulative growth of over 50% in the use of Metrics and Goal setting: web meeting technologies (like Microsoft Live Meeting and WebEx) over past There is no reiterating the fact that a robust mechanism of measuring and three years. Our conservative estimates indicate the resulting GHG emissions reporting performance metrics is a primary requirement to set scientifically valid, savings of over 60,287 tons in Scope 3 emissions (Business Travel related), a 60% traceable and accountable goals. While we have standardized the process for increase from previous year. Over the past few years, we have taken steps to accounting of Scope 1 and 2 emissions, we are slowly closing the gap in valuation facilitate a shift towards access to public transport for employees (buses, of externalities (all Scope 3 heads). Starting this report, we are publishing commuter trains), encouraging cycling to work (through an active cycling emissions for all applicable Scope 3 heads. Our goals, which end in 2015, aim to community in the organization) and carpooling. Our annual transport survey reduce our Scope 1 and Scope 2 people emissions intensity reduction figures by launched last year provides insights into modes of transport, distance traversed half from the 2010 baseline. and qualitative feedback on improving services across our locations.Around 6000 people have participated in these surveys for the last three years. IT lead Soft Carbon Neutral infrastructure enablers like anytime direct connectivity access to office intranet We have deliberately not set a Carbon Neutral goal or an offset program for applications, secure personal device connectivity through the BYOD initiative reducing Scope 1 and 2 emissions due to the externalities involved in most (BringYour Own Devices) are steps in enabling more flexible work place options. alternatives like embedded carbon and water footprint, land use change and broader ecological and social sustainability issues involved in such programs. For A summary of the above GHG mitigation programs, excluding direct commute example, mass afforestation of a single species over a large area may help achieve a and travel reduction, is provided below. carbon reduction goal but have a high negative impact on water sustainability, Estimated GHG Savings in the Mitigation Programs reporting period in tons Co2 biodiversity and livelihoods. Renewable Energy Procurement 60,114 Renewable Energy Generation (inch Solar Water Heating) 1290 Scaling Up Renewables Virtualisation 7188 Energy Efficiency Measures 13,442 While we have an ambitious renewable target, renewables do bring in embedded Travel Substitution initiatives (Live meeting,Virtual conferencing) 60,287 environmental costs through materials and land use change, including emerging Total (Tons) 142,321 socio-economic challenges related to land acquisition and sustainability of Ecological Sustainability 105 promoters and their financing. One cannot discount the fact that the technology Retrofits in existing campuses – Key considerations and itself is maturing and in many areas the infrastructure is not yet in place to enable challenges large scale evacuation of renewable power. The renewable energy trading/purchase mechanism (RECRenewable Energy Certificate) for open Retrofits in campuses are largely related to key demand heads – HVAC systems, access consumers like India is regulated to the extent that the prices are not UPS systems through connected IT load and Lighting. While lighting is something market determined and are fixed by the regulators. Moreover each state in India that can be easily changed to energy efficient fitments, retrofits for HVAC and has its own mechanism on effecting access to open access. This has led to a UPS need careful considerations of design, feasibility considerations for significant reduction in demand for REC from open access consumers. The working/in-use campuses and economics. We actively integrate energy regulator is presently reviewing the pricing mechanisms, but it can be said that it conservation measures through better monitoring through sensors, demand will take a few years before the market matures. The mainstay of accessing RE for sizing and proactive monitoring and maintenance. open access consumers like us has been through direct power purchase agreement from producers in select states – outside the REC mechanism. However this can lead to a double accounting of renewable energy sold to purchasing company as the generator can sell RECs to another consumer. We have taken adequate steps by including non-tradability of REC for contracted power through contracts and including verification of generation in the regulators national REC registry. From 2014-15, our aim is to set energy and emissions goals based on a more appropriate measure for office spaces and data centers: ? Office spaces: Absolute and Area based emissions intensity – separately for owned and leased spaces ? Data centers: PUE (Power Usage Effectiveness). Our offices and this could be typical of other integrated IT service providers, have varying usage and load profiles. The load in a typical office space for an ICT services organization will have office spaces, server rooms, hardware testing, labs and experience centers spread across wings and floors of a typical building, The energy usage pattern would vary widely across these end usage points. Data collection across different usage points needs sub-metering; at the same time area measurements have to keep track of demand profile changes. 106 Ecological Sustainability Water Sourcing of water Ground water, municipal water supplies and private purchase contribute to nearly 99% of the total fresh water consumption. The water supplied by the municipal bodies and the industrial association are sourced by them in turn from river or lake systems.Water that is purchased from private sources can be traced to have been extracted from local aquifers. We take care not to withdraw water from water bodies that are recognized to be particularly sensitive due to their Goals: relative size, function, or status as a support source for endangered species. None Our articulated goals are therefore predicated on these three dimensions. of our operations impact any nationally or internationally designated water ? Improve water efficiency (fresh water use per employee) by 5% year conservation areas. on year. The figure below is a snapshot of our water withdrawal by source. ? Recognizing water availability as a business risk, to proactively assess and plan for the water security of the organization in a manner that is 2500000 Water Consumption by Source (Kl) congruent with other two goals. 2000000 ? Responsible Sourcing: To ensure responsible water management in 1500000 proximate communities, especially in locations that are prone to water scarcity 1000000 500000 0 Ground Municipal Private Industrial RainWater Total Water Water Supply Purchase Association Utilized 265459 635722 478632 13204 5052 1398070 416143 749988 626031 110242 3423 1905827 383769 900108 747698 240 7024 2038839 350344 815028 799090 240 6240 1970943 253262 729873 883832 0 10206 1877173 2009-10 2010-11 2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 Ecological Sustainability 107 Water Consumed vs. Water Recycled Responsible Water Framework 2500000 2000000 The Responsible Water framework, developed in association with one of our 1500000 water partners, aims to go beyond standard measurements of recycling and per 1000000 capita freshwater efficiency – to provide a set of quantitative and qualitative 500000 metrics that provide a wider framework which also evaluate aspects of campus 0 design and people density, harvesting of endowed water (rainwater), embodied 2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 energy of different sources of water and aspects of knowledge, transparency, Water Consumption Water Recycled governance in campus management. An integrated framework like this helps consider and evaluate water decisions from economic as well as ecological contexts. Two of the metrics are presented in the table below for four of our Salient Water Metrics campuses. Responsible Siting (RS) is the freshwater demand that can be potentially met by rainwater.This metric is reflective of the rainfall endowment of the campus, campus design (with respect to harvestable surface water from rooftops) and the current/expected demand profile of the campus. Water ? The per employee water consumption for the reporting year is 1.46 m3 per Sustainability (WS) is amount of total demand met by rainfall and treated water. month, a 7.1 % reduction when compared with 1.57 m3 in year 2012-13. ? We recycle 886731 m3 of water in 24 of our major locations, (839389 for 23 Responsible Water locations in 2010-11) using Sewage Treatment Plants (STPs).The percentage Location Siting (RS) Sustainability Cooments of this recycled water as a percentage of freshwater extracted is around 47%. Low RS due to higher campus SJP-2 0.45 0.26 ? The reduction in freshwater consumption has been primarily through better density/footprint. Scope for increasing rain water harvesting water accounting, demand side optimization and increasing water exists. In-Progress governance through involvement of facility teams. RS would drop significantly after PDC-2 0.62 0.39 planned new development in campus. Scope for increasing rain water 40 of our 68 locations in India are leased and located in prime city areas. For these harvesting exists. In-Progress locations, waste water is discharged to CSTP’s (Common Sewage Treatment HDC 0.35 0.45 1/5th of annual freshwater demand plants) and to the municipal sewerage systems. We take care not to discharge Manikonda can be met by rainwater. Low RS due to lower rainfall in region. Planned waste water into any subsurface waters, surface waters or sewers that lead High potential for rainwater; nearly half CDC-5 1.03 0.30 directly to rivers, oceans, lakes, wetlands, and ground water. The treated water of annual fresh water demand can be met by rainwater from rooftops. Civil from our sewage treatment plants are tested and are in conformance with the work challenges due to marsh land/ low water table. Planned parameters specified by the respective local pollution control boards. 108 Ecological Sustainability Participative aquifer mapping This program is being anchored by BIOME Environmental Solutions based in Bengaluru with hydrogeologyexpertise from ACWADAM (Pune) and mapping-IT program (PAQM) solutions from Mapunity (Bengaluru) Ground water is a primary source of water in Bengaluru, especially for peripheral areas of the city which are not connected to the city municipal supply (BWSSB). Perspectives on Water Programs Around 40% of total water requirement of the city is met through ground water, which is largely unregulated. It is a scarce resource and many areas including the South east areas (Electronics CitySarjapur-Bellandur-Whitefield corridor) are These short write-ups aim to provide views on operational challenges, areas of severely stressed.There is a high reliance on private supply (tanker) of water, the improvement and other governance or regulatory matters. source of which is again mostly ground water. Ground water being a shared Rain water usage: Rainwater harvesting and integration into freshwater use is common pool resource, the governance choices are complex – from unregulated a significant improvement area for water sustainability across our campuses.We to centralised responses to community centered management. plan to integrate rain water use into primary freshwater use cycle across Water stewardship cannot stop at the boundaries of the organization. The identified large campuses over the next two year period. Responsible Water 2 program aims to create a community centered Water Recycling: In our campuses, the bulk of treated water is used for participatory approach for management of ground water.The watershed area for flushing and landscaping. Around 60% of freshwater across campuses is used for the three year PAQM extends for approximately 37 square kilometers around flushing and the balance for landscaping. Water efficiency can be increased if we our campus and includes areas on Sarjapur Road, Outer Ring Road and Hosa can upgrade treated water quality and find additional usage areas. For example, Road. RO quality water (TDS<50) is required for cooling towers in air conditioning to In the first phase of the program, we are constructing a public analytical and visual ensure optimum efficiency of equipment. This requires detailed evaluation of interpretation platform to represent the aquifer capacity, availability and demand water treatment options, technology upgrade and investments. We plan to profiles.This is being done based on quality and quantitative studies of around 16 implement ultra-filtration and RO projects and integrate with in three large water bodies (lakes), 100+ bore-wells, wells, land use, geology of the region and campuses by 2016. case studies and responses at a reasonably granular level. In most cases, the use for landscape is more than the requirement.This is also to The later phases of the program will involve the community (resident an extent linked to landscape design. Lawns and certain exotic species of plants associations, institutions, schools) in using the platform to understand ground consumer more resources and have higher maintenance costs. Our biodiversity water, inform choices and better management of ground water. A central idea of program, detailed later, integrates lower footprint and maintenance the program is to also inform government organisations and city authorities in considerations in retrofits and greenfield projects. helping with enabling infrastructure. Ecological Sustainability 109 Zero Discharge: The pollution control board have instuted norms of zero discharge of water (treated or waste) outside the campus. However most office Demand side optimization measures campuses and in fact most bulk consumers like commercial spaces and group housing have excess quantum of treated water than they can find ways to reintegrate into consumption points. Even after finding uses for all non contact Flushing design: Similarly, flushing systems and designs have improved where purposes like flushing, air conditioning and landscaping, there would still be the water flow rate is now around 50% lesser compared to older flush systems. certain quantum of treated water. Typically in building campuses, the bulk of the This is something we will continue to evaluate and especially use for new campus excess treated water is put into landscaping, with a certain amount overflowing developments. We have also piloted waterless urinals in few campuses and are outside the campus. The norms, hence, are not reflective of the on-ground evaluating the feasibility of scaling it across campuses. situation with respect to occupancy patterns and consumption areas. One Leakages: For older campuses, identification and rectification of leakages is a solution would be to work with state and city authorities to find better ways of priority area. Plumbing technology has also evolved over time. The plumbing treated water – in construction, agriculture and other industrial use. However network in high rise buildings is mainly pressurized systems with underground this requires a separate distribution network for treated water. There have also plumbing making it more difficult to detect pressure drops and leakages. Hence, been suggestions, that where feasible, treated water that meets certain norms comparison of water intensity data across locations and benchmarking provide could flow through constructed wetlands and surface water bodies (lakes) useful indicators. outside the campuses. We plan to work with regulators and through citizen groups to better understand and facilitate some pilot projects. 110 Ecological Sustainability Pollution and Waste Management Air pollution: We aim to baseline air pollution metrics in 14-15 and arrive at three to five year road map. Air pollution is closely linked to energy reduction goals, especially from Scope 1 sources (Generated power through DG sets). Pollution of the air and water poses one of the most serious threats to community health and welfare and industry – which is one of the principal sources of pollution – holds special responsibility for effective mitigation and Goals: minimization. Our goal in this regard goes beyond the organizational boundaries The below goals have been set on the basis of an extensive independent to what happens downstream all the way to the landfill. audit done during 2012-13.While our earlier goal centered around only the aggregate level of recycling, the recalibrated goals seek to be more granular Our waste management strategies are centered around either i) recycling the and are set at a category level.This will require close working of operations waste for further use or ii) arranging for safe disposal. To operationalize our teams with partners who have differentiated capabilities across the strategy, we follow robust processes of segregating waste into organic, inorganicdifferent waste streams and jointly explore areas of improvement. waste, hazardous, packaging, Bio medical and other categories, which are then recycled either in-house or through outsourced vendor arrangements. ? 100% of organic waste to be handled in-house at owned locations by 92% of the total waste from our IT India operations is recycled -through both, inend of 14-15 house recycling units and through authorized vendor tie-ups. A majority of the ? 100% of paper, cardboard, hazardous and e-waste, mixed metals/scrap balance mixed solid waste is also handled through authorized vendors however and plastics to be recycled/ handled as per approved methods by end its trail is not entirely known to us or verifiable and therefore, we have adopted a of 14-15 conservative approach of classifying it as untreated waste. ? Reduce Mixed solid waste intensity to half by 2017 (3 year target) as compared to 13-14 In 2013, we initiated a comprehensive and independent waste assessment audit ? Reduce landfill intensity to half by 2017 (3 year target) as compared to across our locations for electronic waste and solid waste streams. The study 13-14 highlighted the informal nature of the waste handling ecosystem across different sub-categories and the scope for improvement in governance and traceability of waste streams.We are working with our partners and vendors in driving better Ecological Sustainability 111 practices and behaviors keeping in mind both human and ecological impacts of any changes. This is necessarily iterative and through a process of collaboration Category of handling method with service providers, civil society anf government. Recongnising this need, we plan to start two key programs in Bangalore – a project with a waste handlers collective which aims to enhance capability of the sector in handling solid waste as ? Internal Recycling: Almost all of the organic waste is completely handled well as enabling access to government provided social programs for their familes. within our campus operations through various methods: Organic waste The other program aims to work with e-waste recyclers to build better joint composter, Bio gas generation andVermi-composting governance and incentive mechanisms. ? External Recycling: Waste other than organic category is mainly recycled externally by vendors. For details of methodology and data source, please We continually assess operational risks to the environment and apply the refer the table below precautionary principle in our approach to get insights and plan – for example, the ? Landfill: Largely a portion of mixed solid waste, scrap and biomedical waste responsible water use study and e-waste life cycle audits. In the reporting period, is landfilled through approved processes there were no instances of environmental fines imposed or negative ? Incineration: Mainly for biomedical waste consequences due to our operations.The series of figures below provide detailed statistics on the multiple categories of waste generation, recycling and disposal pertaining to our operations. Other waste includes broken furniture, tiles, worn/torn carpets – which is largely recycled. Water Disposed by Category (Tons) 4000 3500 3000 2500 2000 1500 1000 500 0 Inorganic Organic Hazardous Packaging E-waste Bio Medical Other Waste Total 318 800 48 89 241 1 342 1838 258 1201 84 116 236 0.40 400 2295 211 2368 246 119 247 0.19 549 3739 419.00 2177.00 189.00 174.00 195.00 0.20 555.00 3705 2010-11 2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 112 Ecological Sustainability Waste Handing Methods The age of DG’s is a significant factor which can impact emissions. We also have hired DG’s at some locations running for extended periods of time, in some cases 9.48% for 24X7, due to insufficient supply of grid power. This leads to reduction in 0.03% efficiency of combustion over extended period of time. 31.83% 58.67% Average in mg/Nm3 150 101 100 80 78 80 58 75 100 50 65 50 Landfill Inceneration Internal Recycle External Recycle 0 Nox Sox SPM Standard 2012-13 2013-14 Air Emissions Indoor Air Pollutants We ensure adequate maintenance of our DG sets present in 44 of our locations, this helps in minimizing the emissions of air pollutants like oxides of Nitrogen (NOx), oxides of Sulphur (SOx) and particulate matter. Indoor air quality is seen to have a correlation with health of employees and can A scheduled PPM ( Planned Preventive Maintenance) is in place for carrying the be a cause of some respiratory ailments. We regularly monitor presence of maintenance of the DG sets to check the efficiency of the DG sets. Monthly stack Indoor air pollutants like VOC (Volatile organic compounds), POP (Persistent monitoring is also carried out to check NOx, SOx and SPM levels to ensure the organic pollutants) and other hazardous air pollutants. The data across few emissions are within the regulatory norms. campuses in March 2014 shows negligible detection of such pollutants. In the next year, we plan to set up comprehensive mechanisms to monitor and audit The average of stack emissions of 100 DG’s at 20 of our larger locations is as indoor air quality and report aggregate values of the same across campuses. follows.This is the average of emission quality reporting as of March 31 2014. Ecological Sustainability 113 E-waste recycling involves significant capital investment, especially for extracting Controlled emissions of ozone certain valuable metals. The current arrangements and economics of the entire depleting substances (ODS) chain from manufacturer-distributor-seller-purchaser-recycler/reseller do not encourage and incentivize this investment. It is clear that the formal e-waste recycling ecosystem in India is at a nascent stage and the approved recyclers will The quantity of refrigerants, including R-22 in 2012-13 was 5.3 metric tons for 34 be at different levels of maturity and responsibility. Through a baseline audit locations. Out of that, R-22, a ODS substance under Montreal Protocol amounts conducted in 2013, we have identified key area sof improvement in our supplier to 3.6 tons. engagement. Starting end 2014, we aim to start a continuing program of communication-audits-capacity building with our suppliers to ensure traceability and responsible handling of electornic waste. We are also working verly closely Electronic Waste with the Electronic City Industries Association (ELCIA), which hosts many ICT and electronic industry in Bengaluru, to establish a comprehensive program across member companies. During FY13-14 the total end of life E-waste collected and recycled through authorized vendors was 195 tons. During the reporting year we ramped down our hardware manufacturing business and closed operations effective March Perspectives on waste management 2014. While we continue to still offer product take back service for our B2B customers, we foresee a continued drop in the quantum of EOL from consumers over the next 3-4 years. Merely relying on regulatory compliance and technological solution approaches has limitations. In the case of waste management, there are structural issues However e-waste recycling faces multiple chaallenges. It is estimated that in India stemming from capacity and knowledge with downstream suppliers, economics nearly 95% of electronic end of life is handled by the informal sector – because of of operation, socio-economic realities of the communities handling and lax the low cost methods used to dismantle/recyle and reuse of components as regulatory environment. From our assessments, we have identified labor spares in non-branded products. While the sector is known for its practices, health and safety gaps with approved recyclers. Similarly technical enterprenuership and economic efficiency, there are significant social and solutions (CFL/tube light crusher which we are piloting at our campuses) do not environmental risks like using hazardous methods for recycling and extracting necessarily close the gaps with downstream environmental pollution and safe metals. In the state of Karnataka in India, with support from a few social sector material handling. organisations and the government , a few informal recyclers have transitioned to the formal sector. Oil spills There were no incidents of significant spills of oil or chemicals during inbound transportation in the reporting period. 114 Ecological Sustainability Waste Disposed in Tons Handling methods Disposed Source of Data Organisational Category 2010-11 2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 Directly Provided by contractor Defaults Garden Waste 179 673 475 664 RECYCLED 100% Food Scraps 526 439 574 673 RECYCLED 100% Dimensional Wood/Lumber 22 26 34 81 RECYCLED 100% STP Sludge 73 63 1284 754 RECYCLED 100% Organic Waste (Total) 800 1201 2368 2173 Magazines 1 6 5 2 RECYCLED 100% Newspaper 12 11 10 20 RECYCLED 100% Office Stationary 65 7 11 12 RECYCLED 100% Paper 76 74 98 230 RECYCLED 100% Tissue Paper 164 161 86 156 ICINERATION 3% LANDFILLED 97% Inorganic Waste (Total) 318 258 211 419 Cardboard 78 98 101 168 RECYCLED 100% Styrofoam 5 5 2 1 ICINERATION 3% LANDFILLED 97% Thermacol 6 13 16 5 ICINERATION 3% LANDFILLED 97% Packaging Waste (Total) 89 116 119 174 Bio Medical Waste 581 Kgs 298 Kgs 192 Kgs 204 Kgs Electronic Items 241 236 247 195 RECYCLED 100% Tubelights & CFL's 2 2 6 3 RECYCLED 100% Used Oil 26 35 48 36 RECYCLED 100% Batteries 18 42 189 148 RECYCLED 100% Oil soaked cotton waste 497 Kg 1 1 267 Kg INCENERATION 100% DG Filters 2 2 2 1 INCENERATION 100% Ink Cartridges 2.912 Kgs 664 Kgs 5 Kgs RECYCLED 100% Hazadous, Biomedical E-waste (Total) 289 320 493 384 Mixed Metals 104 42 125 47 RECYCLED 100% Mixed Mis. Solid Waste (MSW) 125 203 263 349 60 % RECYCLED 40 % LANDFILLED Mixed Plastics 41 20 39 34 RECYCLED 100% Other Scrap 71 135 121 126 60 % RECYCLED 40 % LANDFILLED Other Waste (Total) 342 400 549 555 Total Waste 1838 2295 3739 3705 Ecological Sustainability 115 The sludge quantum has decreased significantly due to better decanting process in few locations and improvement in operating parameters of STP. Tissue paper shows an increase due to a eclassification of waste from MSW category to Tissue in one of the locations. Delays in approvals from regulatory authorities has led to delays in dispoal of hazardous waste like ink cartridges. MSW waste has increased due to more instances of office space retrofits and modifications in some of the older campuses. Biodiversity The work on phase two of the four phase project, the 3 acre wetland park, has started. It will take in excess treated water and through a network of reed bed and shallow ponds improve the quality of water and at the same time support a Electronics City, Bangalore variety of life aquatic plants, fish, amphibians and birds. It will additionally function as a storm water collection area for the campus, help in ground water The completed butterfly park is now host to many species of flora and fauna – recharge and other primary uses depending on the requirement. An including being a resting place for the annual migratory butterflies. We have amphitheater, a plaza, and a couple of pavilions are planned for visitors to the park. started a process of regularly conducting a species census in the butterfly park. The plaza will depict the evolution timeline that shows the history of life and Over the 14 month period from April 2013 to May 2014, 26 butterfly, 17 bird, 5 geology over the last 600 million years. dragon fly and 3 bee species have been sighted in the park. The park has 22 larval host plants and 32 nectaring plants. Pune Project Our aim is to look at species diversity indicators along with other environmental We have started work on the campus biodiversity project for two of our Pune indicators like soil quality, ambient air quality, temperature, water and other campuses – PDC 1 and 2. Biodiversity surveys were conducted in the winter, resources use and develop a representative set of biodiversity indices for office summer and monsoon seasons and recommendations provided on native campuses . The development of this framework is being discussed with a few landscaping retrofits. The project proposes a significant increase in native plants partners. coverage and development of policies for management of landscape and for species conservation. Active employee engagement is a central element of our biodiversity programs.The spaces and in campus programs we are curating aim to build employee connections with nature and sustainability. The engagement programs cover expert talks on species biodiversity, conservation, photography and involvement in participatory citizen science projects. 116 Ecological Sustainability Environmental Expenditures Community Concerns We shifted to an integrated facility management sourcing (IFMS) arrangement One of our large campuses in Bangalore, the Sarjapur campus, is located in a with third party (partners) across our key owned locations.The IFMS outsourcing mixed use city zone – residential, commercial and small business establishments. contracts also include Operations and maintenance of pollution control The area, which has seen rapid development over the last decade, was a remote equipment, hence from this reporting year we are not able to separately delineate peripheral area in the city and the Wipro campus was one of the first occupants. these expenses. In what can be seen is typical of retrospective urban planning and increasing demand due to urbanisation, the area has since then transitioned to a mixed use In Mn Rs. 2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 area. Residents of one neighbouring community have formally registered a concern of noise pollution from Diesel Generator sets inside the campus. We Treatment and disposal 2.14 1.71 2.01 have responded to these concerns and are currently implementing enhanced of waste enclosures and acoustics to reduce ambient noise. We regularly monitor stack Treatment of emissions 3.60 2.04 3.89 emissions and are evaluating newer technologies to reduce air pollutant Operation & Maintenance of concentrations. Pollution control equipment 21.99 14.44 3.62 Training and Education 1.07 0 0.05 External certification of management systems; 0.22 0.37 0.17 Research and development; 0.00 0 0.00 Other environmental management costs. 2.77 2.9 4.53 Work-life balance Medical & Insurance Benefits Retirement Ecological Sustainability 117 Assumptions Rule of Thumb Computation process Data Cluster (IT Systems or Manual) Protocols Followed Assumptions & Rules of Thumb Energy Consumption Energ y consumption data ? Purchased electricity is recorded on the ? For smaller locations where DG units have not been provided, the (Electricity & Fuel) (purchased electricity, diesel and basis of monthly electricity bills diesel consumption of that location has been multiplied into an LPG) are recorded on a monthly ? Diesel consumption is recorded in terms assumed engine efficiency of 2.8 Kwh/l to obtain the total units basis by all locations in manual of liters consumed per month; ? A figure of 0.4 kg/m3 is considered to convert cubic meters of biogas MS-excel sheets, which are ? Liquefied petroleum Gas (LPG) is into kilograms. uploaded onto a central system recorded in terms of the number of ? Weight of one full LPG gas cylinder is considered as 19.5kg. This for audit traceability cylinders consumed per month. The figure has been utilized in the event that locations have provided the number is converted into weight by using number of LPG gas cylinders being used as opposed to the Kg the standard weight of one cylinder ? For locations where data for all 12 months is incomplete, the average ? Captive energy units are recorded based figure of the months provided has been considered on daily meter logs. Emissions, Water Based on disclosures and data Trucost proprietary This is largely based on disclosure and modelled estimates of the top 85% and Waste footprint modelled based on spend suppliers by spend. Nearly 50% of the data is from actual disclosures of from Purchased companies and the balance is modelled.The model estimate is based on Goods and Services Trucost’s database of environmental data from 4000+ companies and a hybridised input-output econometric model based on different environmental resources and business activities -applied to spend data across different procurement categories. 118 Ecological Sustainability Computation process Data Cluster (IT Systems or Manual) Protocols Followed Assumptions & Rules of Thumb Water Data on water consumption, The monthly recordings are based on For computing the quantum of rainwater harvested, we use the ? recycled water usage and readings of water meters that are installed in volume of the rainwater tank as the basis and multiply that by the rainwater harvesting is recorded all our major campuses number of times the tank is estimated to get filled in manual systems and aggregated For leased spaces in smaller multistoried locations where the builder ? in a central database maintains the total water consumed, figures are obtained by assuming one employee consumes 50 liters of water per day . Overall the quantum of total water calculated across leased spaces this way amounts to about 3% of the overall water consumption. Waste Data on air pollution and Waste figures are obtained based on the Weight of one UPS battery is considered as 11.70Kgs.This figure has ? refrigerants is recorded in manual generated vs. disposed figures which are been utilized in the event that locations have provided the number of systems and aggregated in a maintained in waste reporting sheets batteries being used as opposed to the Kg central database Weight of 1 liter of used oil is considered as 0.88kgs. This figure has ? been utilized in the event that locations have provided the number of litres of used oil being disposed as opposed to the Kg Weight of one CFL bulb is considered as 126g. This figure has been ? utilized in the event that locations have provided the number of CFL's being disposed as opposed to the Kg Weight of one tube light is considered as 250g. This figure has been ? utilized in the event that locations have provided the number of tube lights being disposed as opposed to the Kg Weight of one DG filter is considered as 1.5Kg.This figure has been ? utilized in the event that locations have provided the number of DG filters being disposed as opposed to the Kg. For Bangalore and Kochi locations based on independent audit of ? recycling vendors we have considered 40 % of Municipal Solid waste (MSW) is landfilled and balance 60 % is recycled. For other locations, all MSW category waste is sent to landfills. Ecological Sustainability 119 Computation process Data Cluster (IT Systems or Manual) Protocols Followed Assumptions & Rules of Thumb Upstream Logistics Freight data from import of IT Calculations of “Distance X weight” were done for 15 sourcehardware and equipment is destination pairs which covered nearly all of the main importing recorded in SAP countries. ? Data on employee car Costs are ? determined based on The proportion of people using different modes of transport and average Employee Commute reimbursements are obtained reimbursement of claims that are distance travelled is corroborated with data from the annual commute from SAP Based IT Systems submitted by employees on a monthly survey. ? Data on Bus and Cab travel is basis recorded in manual systems Bus & Cab details are obtained from daily ? ? Personal Transport : For number of employees 4 wheelers and 2 and aggregated in a central trip sheets wheelers we assume 100% occupancy of all parking slots across database locations – we see this as a conservative estimate considering that parking slot capacity in most cases is as per the requirement and is not always fully occupied. For 4 wheelers, we assume that 80% of fuel costs assumed are be associated with petrol vehicles and balance 20% of fuel costs assumed to be associated with diesel vehicles.This proportion is also corroborated with the company leased vehicles split – offered to certain bands of employees. Emissions for company owned vehicles is at actuals and is overstated by at least 20% as the fuel claim also includes personal travel on the part of employees. The average mileage for petrol and diesel cars is taken as 10 and 14 KM per liter respectively. ? Company arranged transport (buses and cabs): Number of people and distance travelled provided by operator. ? Public Transport: We have assumed an average of 29 Km per passenger per day for public transport. We have arrived at the average distance commuted by means of a travel survey. Thus, by multiplying the average passenger KM per day by the assumed number of working days in a year(250) and the number of employees who use the service. The number of employees who use public transport by inference i.e. by subtracting the total of the number of employees who use cars, two wheelers and Wipro operated buses from the total number of employees in our India operations 120 Ecological Sustainability Computation process Data Cluster (IT Systems or Manual) Protocols Followed Assumptions & Rules of Thumb Business Travel Data on business travel is Details are determined based on Domestic Air Travel (WTSL* and Agent Booked, covers all geographies across ? obtained from SAP Based IT and International Travel Requests all businesses): Itineraries with IATA airport codes are available for Systems this category. The itineraries are split into individual legs and the distance for each airport leg is calculated using the a airport distance calculator. The flights were classified into domestic, short haul and long haul depending on the distances. GHG protocol emission factors (see last row in this table) were then applied to the total kilometers for the three classifications. Bus and Rail for India (WTSL Booked): Itineraries of all tickets (rail ? and bus) booked are available with Indian Railways Station Codes. For both bus and train, we have considered route segments which contribute to 80% of travel. For Rail, this contribution is from 24 routes, while for road it is from 31 routes.. For the selected routes, the distance has been calculated using the station code rail distance calculator available at erail.in. A weighted average for distance (based on selected routes and the number of journeys for that route) is calculated each for rail (520 Km in 13-14 ) and bus (636 Km in 13-14). The weighted average distance is applied across the trips for which actual distance is not calculated. Self booked tickets:A significant portion of bus and rail travel in India ? (50 to 60%) is self booked by employees as per travel policies and then subsequently reimbursed. For self booking tickets, IATA airport codes, Railway Station Codes ? or standard city names is not available. Hence we have used a fare basis for different modes of travel to arrive at Kms traversed. However, this assumes that a linear (Kilometer based) cost model is used by all service providers. In India, this assumption is reasonably valid – especially with Indian Railways. Rail: As per India policy, all train travel is by 2nd A Class. Based on 5 ? key travel sectors for rail travel, we have calculated the cost per Km to be Rs 3.36/Km. For Bus, we have calculated the cost per Km also to be Rs 2.58/Km. For air, we have calculated the cost per Km also to be Rs 8.3/Km. (All these have seen upward revisions from 2012-13 figures). Ecological Sustainability 121 This cost/km basis is used to calculate the total business travel Kms and then apply appropriate passenger-km based emission factors. ? Conveyance Claims (India):While on business travel, employees also use local conveyance to travel between residences and airports /stations. The new application on the intranet now captures actual kms travelled by employees for different modes. GHG protocol emission factors are applied to different modes of travel. ? Conveyance Claims (Overseas): Rental car and trains in 8 countries amount to 95% of total claims. For these countries, we have calculated cost of travel (in USD equivalent as $/km) for these taxi/car rentals and train/metro rail based on average travel costs available on websites for the city and country. This average cost was applied to total claims for 95% of total claims to calculate distance traveled and emissions.The balance 5% was extrapolated. ? Hotel Stays (during Business Travel): Basd on literature survey and assumptions a typical 30 sq mt room which has air conditioning, lights and TV – including loading for general areas and restaurant – would consume around 30 units per day per room of single occupancy.We have used this energy consumption (30 units) across number of days of hotel stays for different countries and applied national emission figures to calculated total emissions. For India, this year we have also considered 80:20 as the split between grid and Diesel generated electricity. 122 Ecological Sustainability Computation process Data Cluster (IT Systems or Manual) Protocols Followed Assumptions & Rules of Thumb GHG Emissions The computation of our GHG GHG Protocol for country emissions, ? None emissions data is done manually fuel, passenger transport and freight from MS-excel worksheets transport emissions CEA Report , Version 8 for India Grid ? Emissions IPCC 4th Assessment report and ? ASHRAE Standard 34 for Refrigerant emissions EPA Warm tool and GHG protocol for ? emissions from Waste DEFRA (UK) for Well to tank and T&D ? losses for grid electricity Ecological Sustainability 123 Present Day, Rajasthan, India In the deserts of Rajasthan, rain water runs deep Across the Thar, besides palar pani (rain water) and patal pani (underground water), villages are nourished by rejani pani (surface water that doesn’t make it to the water table). The mineral rich lands have an impervious layer of gypsum, formed almost 30 lakh years ago. The layer hardens when it comes in contact with water, keeping it from trickling down to the water table while the sand prevents the trapped humidity from evaporating back into the atmosphere. The cavity of a specially constructed kuin, a small and narrow well, turns the humidity into drops of water. The kuin’s circumference is kept to a minimum to prevent evaporation. In places like Jaisalmer, which witnessed its lowest annual average rainfall last year at 7mm, kuins serve as efcient water retainers. Like a kuin, Lake Jaseri has a bittu ro ballyo, or a layer of stone which prevents rainwater from escaping, thereby maintaining a fxed water level all year around. Rajasthan is also home to tankas, kunds, talabs, talais and johads. ? Vertical Posts mark the opening of a kuin in Rajasthan. Customer Stewardship 5d.Customer Stewardship 5d Information and communication technologies now play a central role in driving Emerging technological innovations can play a critical role with digitalization & efficiency and productivity improvements through dematerialization and dematerialization, analytics, system integration and optimization technologies automation for most businesses. While the application in earlier decades was acting as levers.These technological opportunities can drive sustainability by way largely for in-company functional efficiencies, its use now has expanded trough of decoupling resource use from growth. the value chain and is an integral tool to leverage information between the organization and its customers, suppliers and other stakeholders. Exploitation of inter-organizational synergies through system integration has now become a common application of IT. Digitalization and Analytics enable dematerialization can better and EmergingTrends reduce or eliminates smarter decisionthe need for an making This trend is being further strengthened with the continuing influence and emissions-intensive product or process adoption of new disruptive technologies like Big Data,Analytics, Internet of Things and Mobility. The trend of disintermediation is changing the way customer and business interactions takes place. Disintermediation gives consumers direct access to information that otherwise would require a mediator. As a result, new business models are being created and e-commerce is gaining wide acceptance. Ecommerce is also helping scale models of resource sharing and use – for example, the sharing economy has gained wide acceptance in sectors like transport (uber, lyft) and hospitality (airbnb). Information technology provides unique opportunities for product innovation Optimization of making technology more accessible and affordable to customers. This process, activity, and democratization of ICT is resulting in IT becoming ubiquitous in everyday life functions improves System integration efficiency through improves efficiency addressing different needs of end users. For example, mobile phone technology simulation, across organization meets certain social needs of staying connected across several barriers at low automation, cost. 74 out of 100 Indians are connected through wireless mobile technology. redesign or control Newer platforms to access a multitude of services also are becoming a reality. Customer Stewardship 127 performance of companies across 150 sectors. More than 20 Wipro customers Risks and Challenges use this platform. In the recent assessment, we have achieved an overall CSR rating of Gold (highest among possible three levels) and a CSR engagement However, technology is not without any associated risks and challenges. Despite rating of “Advanced”. The areas of improvement are on supplier sustainability its potential to transform economy, society and environment, dependency on ICT assessments and procurement and on evidence of certification coverage for technology results in increased energy use and electronic waste. Studies estimate Environment, Health and Safety and Human rights. Verego SRS (Social that the ICT systems now use 1,500 terawatt-hours of power per year which is Responsibility Standard) is an independent supplier CSR assessment framework about 10% of the world’s total electricity generated. Jevons paradox proposes which is subscribed to by leading companies in the U.S. Verrgo has rated us that the increase in efficiency which comes along with technological progress “Best in Class” across all the 5 SRS areas (Leadership, Ethics, People, tends to increase (rather than decrease) the rate of consumption of that Community and Environment) and designated us as a “CSR Thought resource. Almost 48.9 million metric tons of electronic products waste was Leader”. The suggested areas of improvement include transparency in internal produced in 2013 — an average of 7 kg for each of the world’s 7 billion people, CSR communications, employee engagement and supply chain programs. which is expected to increase by 33 percent by 2017. Active engagement with our customers provides us valuable insights into The pervasive nature of the technology also raises concerns of data emerging sustainability risks and focus areas.We collaborate with our customers mismanagement, increase in surveillance, loss of privacy, and possible abuse.WEF and partners in implementing identified areas of improvement. Global Risks Report 2014 lists large-scale cyber-attacks and major data The opportunities for ICT lies in this wide intersection of domain areas – from fraud/theft among the top 10 in terms of likelihood. solutions which continue to address resource efficiency and dematerialization, improve connectedness and collaboration, while enabling a safer society. Customer expectations Our global customers expect disclosures and compliance on different sustainability aspects, which in turn extend to Wipro’s complete value chain. For example, JAC (Joint Audit Consortium) a group of eight European telecom companies along with an independent consulting firm conducted a comprehensive audit at two of our operations as well as two of our critical suppliers. Our profile is also updated regularly and assessed by third party supply chain CSR raters like Ecovadis and Verego. Ecovadis, a Paris based organization provides a collaborative platform for our customers to monitor the sustainability 128 Customer Stewardship Stakeholder management – Wipro’s portfolio of Solutions Measurement and Goal setting Voice of customer (VOC) is heard at various levels i.e., at project level, program Emerging ICT services portfolio Sustainability Impact through level, account level and through direct feedback, informal meetings, governance meetings and senior management interaction with the client. PCSAT (Project Analytics Customer Satisfaction), Program CSAT, Quarterly pulse surveys and Account CSAT through third party surveys are conducted formally and at appropriate Cloud based services intervals to capture customer satisfaction/ dissatisfaction with Wipro. The EcoEnergy – Improving resource efficiency individual business units set CSAT goals which roll up to the organization level. Energy Management solutions Dematerialization Strategic marketing conducts surveys on brand perception where they also Transparency Internet of Things Connectedness understand customer’s expectations of Wipro and Wipro’s position relative to its competitors. Wipro’s Senior Leadership visit to customers is another source of Mobility information on VOC.Wipro also conducts webinars with its alliance partners to capture customer voice. Open Source The business units also have access to various reports and analytics at the Information Management business unit, account and program level.These reports provide a comprehensive Safe virtual world Enterprise Security view of metrics related to account health, opportunity reviews and revenue forecasting among others which are reviewed regularly across various levels. In 2013, Verdantix, a leading analyst firm which provides advice to clients in the field of energy, environment and sustainability challenges named Wipro Technologies as a Leader in its report Green Quadrant® Sustainable Technology Services (Global), March 2013 .The report commends Wipro for its notable work with utilities, retailers and in the field of Environment, Health & Safety. Customer Stewardship 129 EcoEnergy services has the potential to significantly decrease environmental footprint. Wipro EcoEnergy, the clean tech business unit of Wipro Limited offers Enterprise Wipro offers a cloud Services portfolio which includes Cloud infrastructure, wide Energy Management Services to help customers reduce their energy business applications and processes. These services are designed to optimize, consumption, reduce CO2 emissions, and improve the efficiency in energy scale, manage and outsource customer’s IT resources thus helping them achieve operations. efficiency and control costs and bring down upfront investments. The value proposition of EcoEnergy is to help its customers achieve 6% – 18% of One of the key virtualization solutions of Wipro is VirtuaDesk™ which is a effective cost savings through reduced consumption, optimized operations, Desktop as a Service offering for the virtual workplace, enabled through desktop monitoring and maintenance over a multi-year engagement. virtualization technology. Taking advantage of cloud architecture principles and technologies,VirtuaDesk offers a high performing and cost-efficient solution for Cases delivering virtual desktops and applications with key benefits of rapid ? EcoEnergy is offering multiyear energy management services to a large virtualization deployment, increased business agility and improved risk North American Retailer to reduce energy consumption across its 1000+ management. stores.The engagement promises to deliver >13% energy savings realized on For more information, please check: http://www.wipro.com/services/cloud-services/ total energy spend through continuous identification and commissioning of energy saving strategies through dynamic control of connected stores. Open Source ? EcoEnergy is engaging with one of the largest Pizza delivery chains in the In a rapidly changing business environment where agility, innovation and cost are world based out of the US having 500+ restaurants in India.The objectives of critical factors for success, Open Source plays a key role in addressing IT engagement covers energy spend optimization, policy enforcement and requirements. By eliminating high licensing costs, product dependencies and central visualization of energy. Wipro deployed its technology platform vendor lock-ins, this technology brings down the barriers to access. called Wipro Energy Manager (WEM) – Application Suite. Open Source helps fosters collaboration thereby help users to realize the For more information, please check: http://www.wipro.com/services/ecoenergy/ potential of ‘wisdom of the masses’. It can contribute greatly towards Cloud &Virtualization Services. appropriate technology which is designed with special consideration to the context of the communities. This technology makes it possible for recipient The Smart 2020 report “Enabling the Low Carbon Economy in the Information communities to participate in the programs designed to address their needs. Age” states that data centers would be the fastest-growing contributor to the Wipro's advisory, consulting and implementation services provide a strategic Information and Communication Technology (ICT) sector’s carbon footprint and advantage in Open Source adoption, leveraging pre-built solutions and best estimates environmental footprint from data centers to almost double between practices. 2007 and 2020. In this context, the virtualization can reduce energy consumption thereby reducing carbon output by consolidating resources, at the same time For more information, please check: http://www.wipro.com/services/open-source/ adding flexibility, scalability and resilience to the infrastructure. Cloud computing 130 Customer Stewardship Internet of Things Analytics Recent advances in networking and communication technologies have led to the Collecting and understanding data on how an organization operates can lead to emergence of the Internet of Things (IoT) and this concept is being used or tested improved efficiency as the knowledge gained from the data will improve decision for implementation by businesses across industries. This technology allows making, refine goals and streamline efforts. Big data analytics makes it possible to devices to seamlessly interact with each other to gather, store, and process data. monitor and measure business performance by sifting through various large real An example of how this technology can influence lives is the remote monitoring time data sources, making connections and helping draw inferences. Analysis of of patients. It can also help consumers and businesses use resources such as large and seemingly discrete social and environmental parameters can help water and energy more efficiently. Wipro leverages its technology expertise, IP organizations assess risks, plan and seek opportunities. solutions, deep industry-specific knowledge, strong partner ecosystem and a For more information, please check: http://www.wipro.com/services/analytics/ robust delivery mechanism to offer IoT solutions to clients from different industries. Enterprise Security For more information, please check: http://www.wipro.com/services/productOrganizations today face threats to their information security which in turn engineering/capabilities/internet-of-things/ could affect their business continuity. They also face challenges due to complex Mobility and diverse regulations surrounding information security. Wipro's Governance, Risks & Compliance Consulting Service helps customer meet their risk Mobility solutions help improve organizational interactivity and create seamless mitigation and compliance goals through: experiences for customers while having real-time engagements with the field force. This help customers make informed and intelligent decisions to achieve ? Technology Advisory better business results. Mobility can improve productivity of employees up to ? Information Risk Management 30% through simple workflows and optimized processes. It can provide seamless ? Compliance Management and affordable access to business critical information for field force anywhere and ? Business Continuity Management anytime. ? Data Security and Privacy For more information, please check: http://www.wipro.com/services/mobility/ For more information, please check: http://www.wipro.com/growth-drivers/enterprisesecurity/ Customer Stewardship 131 Energy, Utilities & Natural Resources Industry Focus Wipro offers environment centric solutions to energy, utilities and natural resources industries with focus on environment, health and safety. These The section below illustrates how ICT solutions are being applied to the more integrated solutions are designed to help customers meet legal and regulatory resource intensive sectors like oil and gas companies, automotive and requirements; reduce carbon footprints and hazardous emissions; efficiently manufacturing sectors. manage water and waste; improve occupational Health Safety, process and asset Automotive safety; and reduce risks to employees, proximate communities and environment. The services portfolio includes the following. Wipro supports its automotive industry customers in achieving their sustainability goals through an innovative solution called EcoMeter Connect ? Sustainability/Global Reporting Initiative(GRI)/Carbon Disclosure Project solution (US patent applied) which supports various stakeholders involved in the (CDP) reporting emission reduction business.This solution which is offered as a part of Connected ? Carbon Management Car platform is an innovative and cost effective way of tackling emission ? HSSE solution implementation reductions and fuel-efficiency improvements. ? HSSE Data Management and Managed Services Wipro's EcoMeter Connect solution has the potential to improve fuel efficiency, ? Incident/accident Reporting and Regulatory Compliance reduce Co2e emissions, reinforce green driving and meet regulatory ? Occupational Health and Medical Service Reporting requirements.The solution captures information related to driving behavior that ? Hazardous and E-waste inventory, disposal and reporting has an impact on eco parameters in terms of higher emissions or fuel Understanding the specific need of Water industry in the context of dramatically consumption and the data is processed using Telematics Control Unit to estimate increasing operating costs, Wipro offers an Energy Management platform the Eco-Index. Driving behavior related data is sent to the back-end server, which together with a robust analytics framework to provide energy saving which could runs an analytics engine to derive intelligence from the trip, and carry out multiple help in better control of energy consumption.The offerings include: projections, comparisons and recommendations. The cloud-hosted server ensures that the users could use this application based on their needs and the ? Energy Assessments pricing is based on a cost-effective model. ? Energy Measures Consultation ? Energy Data Management Manufacturing ? Energy Strategy Wipro offers a unique suite of Sustainability and Energy Management applications ? Design and Delivery of Energy Conservation Measures to manufacturing industry clients which helps them track real-time consumption, ? Sustained Energy Saving via Energy Platform perform higher asset utilization and predict energy consumption patterns. 132 Customer Stewardship Future Directions Internet data traffic is expected to grow by a compounded rate of 21% over the next three to four years (Statista, 2015), necessitating investments in large data centers. Data analytics/ mining and customer data privacy will continue to be the two focus areas for ICT companies. We already are seeing a major trend of companies and businesses moving their IT infrastructure, data and applications to a shared infrastructure (cloud). A study of climate change performance and preparedness of 320 global ICT companies, completed by IIM-B and CDP, reinforced the importance, risk and opportunities arising from sustainability challenges like climate change. ICT will continue to play a key role in better management of energy, water and other natural resources across the sectors of the economy including its own – primary, manufacturing and services. For cities, ICT is poised to a major role in delivery and management of utilities, transportation and other citizen services. Wipro continues to actively seek opportunities across these areas by working closely with government departments and solution providers. Customer Stewardship 133 ca. 1000 AD, Tamil Nadu The 2,000 year old Grand Anaicut Dam, still working hard today While the Early Cholas ruled ancient India only for a century, they created something which has lasted many more. The Grand Anaicut dam, built by them in the 2nd century AD, diverted waters of the Kaveri river, irrigating the surrounding areas of the Chola dynasty. Years later, engineers used it as a prototype to build other dams. What’s incredible is that the massive structure, more than a thousand feet high, is still fully functional today, irrigating 1,000,000 acres of land surrounding it. ? Grand Anaicut Dam Wipro and Investor Engagement 5e. Wipro and Investor Engagement 5e Building better accountability and stewardship investors, regulators and government. Investors are increasingly incorporating ESG criteria (Environmental, Social and Governance) into their investment The International Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC), a global coalition of decision frameworks. Over the last decade, this has manifested in at least four regulators, investors, companies, standard setters, the accounting profession and different ways as shown in the chart below. NGOs, is facilitating adoption of integrated reporting (<IR>) as the corporate reporting norm. <IR> promotes a cohesive and efficient approach to reporting, DJSI, MSCI, CDP, Viego, drawing different reporting trends that can communicate the full range of factors FTSE4Good, OeKom that materially affect the ability of an organization to create value over time. It BSE Listing requirement, adopts ‘integrated thinking’ as a way of breaking down internal silos and reducing Greenex and duplication. It improves the quality of information available to providers of Carbonex financial capital to enable a more efficient and productive allocation of capital. Stock ESG Exchange Assessments Integrated Reporting can play a role in the shift from short-term capital markets by investors to sustainable capital markets. One of the core elements of the <IR> framework is accountability and stewardship of the stocks and flows of the six forms of capital: financial, manufactured, intellectual, human, social and natural.The first two forms of capital are covered in almost all annual reports and the others to varying degrees by some organisations depending on their context and understanding of impacts to significant stakeholders. The Natural Capital Coalition (NCC) is one such Subscription Custom platform created by a wide stakeholder group to develop methods for natural to Principles assessments and social capital valuation in business. In association with Trucost, we have and studies attempted to complete a natural capital valuation (in financial lingo an environmental Profit and Loss account) of our entire value chain for the reporting year (2013-14). of Responsible Lifecycle impacts, Investing (PRI) Natural and The increasing recognition that social and environmental risks can affect a and <IR> Social risk assessments company’s operational strength and continuity has prompted response from Wipro and Investor Engagement 137 Our engagement with responsible investment ? Wipro was given ‘AAA’ Intangible Value Assessment (IVA) Rating by MSCI Inc., which is a leading provider of investment decision support tools to investors globally.This places us in the top 5% of the global IT services sector. We view the trend of responsible investment from two distinct angles: IVA measures and analyzes companies' risk and opportunities arising from environmental, social and governance issues. Ratings range from AAA (best) 1. as a catalyst for making the business sector more responsible and to CCC (worst). Scores range from 10 (best) to 0 (worst).By assessing 2. as a driver of internal rigor, innovation and improvement in a indicators typically not identified by traditional securities analysis, IVA company's operations. Ratings uncover hidden risks and value potential for investors. ? Wipro was ranked first in the global Software Services sector in the ESG Therefore, we have been a conscious and keen participant in multiple such (Environment, Social and Governance) ratings by Societe-Generale. disclosure frameworks; this has helped us continuously calibrate our sustainability program and enhance it through step changes. Our commitment is reflected in the recognition of our leadership in various global ESG rating programs Principle for Responsible Investment ? Wipro has been a constituent of the Dow Jones Sustainability Index World 2014 the 5th year in a row and also part of the Emerging Markets Index for The Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI), developed by an international the 3rd consecutive year. We are also the Global Sector Leader for the group of institutional investors under the umbrella of Principles for Responsible Software and Services industry. Investment Initiative (PRII), reflect the increasing relevance of environmental, ? Wipro was ranked first in the Carbon Disclosure Leadership Index (CDLI social and corporate governance issues to investment practices. UNEP Finance India) 2014 for the third consecutive year. The index is administered by Initiative and UN Global compact are partnering with PRII in this initiative. As of Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) on behalf of 655 investors with assets of 2014, there are over 1300 signatories to PRI. The table below represents an US$ 78 Trillion, this is the definite climate change disclosure framework. increasingly alignment of Wipro's investors to PRI. Wipro was also included in the global CDP Supplier Performance Index 2014. Our CDP responses can be viewed at www.cdproject.net 2011 2012 2013 2014 ? Wipro was selected by Ethisphere institute in their 2014 'World Most Ethical Companies' list, for the third consecutive year. The think tank has Signatories To PRI 915 1,122 1,204 1,304 been publishing the World’s most Ethical (WME) company rankings for the Investors in Wipro* >10% >30% >30% > 40% last eight years now by reviewing hundreds of companies and evaluating applications utilizing its proprietary methodology through in-depth research *Investors in Wipro denote the % of investors who are signatories to PRI amongst and multi-step analysis the number of institutional investors in Wipro Limited. 138 Wipro and Investor Engagement “Principles of Responsible Investment” launched in 2006, has quickly garnered ? Chairman's Statement content enhanced to include support in terms of increased subscribers with 40% of institutional investors in a paragraph on 'Finance, Future Policy and Wipro Wipro being subscribers to PRI.The financial community too has supported this beliefs'. 1984 initiative with various tools to measure and track such investments. In India, ? One page on the directors, senior executives of the various indices like S&P ESG India index, BSE Carbonex and Greenex have been company and manufacturing locations. launched. However, we are yet to see definitive actions from the investment community in this regard in terms of increased fund allocations and ? Segment reporting on business performance. ? Graphs on trends of key financial indicators. benchmarking towards these initiatives. 1993 ? Earnings per share. ? Shareholders' return over ten-year holding period. Our engagement model with ? Wipro Leaders' qualities. 1995 the investor community ? Vision for the year 1999-2000. 1996 Cashflow statement. Investors are significant stakeholders at Wipro. We have multiple channels of ? Letter to the stakeholders. communications to keep the investors informed about various development and 1998 ? Reconciliation of profits between Indian GAAP and events. Communication through voluntary disclosures in financial statement has US GAAP. been the bedrock of investor engagement at Wipro. ? Theme-based annual reports: Communication with stakeholders in the Annual Report – A chronological 2001 Customer testimony on the quality and nature of journey: service offerings. Year of first ? Business Responsibility Report (BRR) section as Key Content per the National Voluntary Guidelines (NVG) the appearance 2012 first company to include an independently verified report in the Annual Report 1977 Comparative financial information of 5 year and 10 years ? In addition to 'About the Company' now titled 'About the Corporation', a two page statement titled ‘Chairman's Statement' included. 1983 ? This statement included a paragraph on ‘Research and Development and Wipro team'. ? Consolidated financial statement. Wipro and Investor Engagement 139 The Shareholding pattern in Wipro ? Annual General Meeting ? EGM ? Board Independent INFORM Directors The table below shows the total number of shareholders consolidated in both ? Press reports domestic (India) and ADR holdings: ? Feedback on Annual ? Report No. of ADR Total Breadth of shareholders holders shareholders Engagement 2007 08 232,932 18,428 251,360 LISTEN DAILOGUE 2008 09 228,456 14,945 243,401 2009 10 179,438 15,383 194,821 ? Website ?Ainvestors Road Shows 2010 11 220,238 12,544 232,782 ? Press Release ?Meeting with Individual ? Quality Eaenings Release investor/analytics 227,158 11,813 238,971 ? Investor Presentation ?Investor Conference 2011 12 ? Annual report ?Banalyst Meet-INDIA and US ? Financial Information 2012 13 213,603 11,162 224,765 2013 14 210,471 10,146 220,617 FY 13 14 Particulars Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 FY Our senior management leaders along with our dedicated Investor Relations team participate in various forums like investor conferences and investor road Investor Meeting 20 33 34 25 112 shows, in addition to hosting investors who visit us. Our quarterly results, Conferences attended 9 9 8 8 34 regulatory filings, transcripts of our earnings call and media presentations are available at http://www.wipro.com/investors/. The Figure below reflects the Road shows conducted 1 1 3 5 10 breadth of our engagement with Investors. AGM Held 1 1 Press Releases 18 16 22 19 75 140 Wipro and Investor Engagement Response to Investors’ and Shareholders’ Our financial performance can be better understood against the larger backdrop of the Global and Indian IT industry and the macro forces that are important Concerns underlying drivers One of the measures of success in the investor relations & secretarial functions is The global environment having satisfied stakeholders. Our goal is to have zero pending complaints or queries at the end of a period.. The table below presents the number of complaints/ queries received and the number of queries responded to. A sustained revival is being witnessed in the Global Economy. Global trade and activity picked up in the second half of 2013. IMF has forecast the world output Description Nature Received Replied Pending growth to reach 3.6% in 2014, up from 3% recorded in 2013. Strengthening of Non receipt of Securities Complaint 147 147 developed economies is likely to boost demand, which, in turn, will help emerging market and developing economies strengthen further. Geopolitical uncertainties Non receipt of annual Complaint 130 130 in some parts, though, remain a cause of concern.Leading the growth revival of reports Correction / Revalidation developed economies, the US has witnessed sustained strengthening in recording Request 425 425 of Dividend Warrants a GDP growth of 1.9% in 2013, which is projected to further rise to 2.8% in 2014. SEBI/ Stock Exchange The euro area appears to be transiting from recession to recovery with a Complaint 35 35 complaints projected GDP growth of 1.2% in 2014 as against a marginal de-growth of 0.4% Non Receipt of Complaint 342 342 recorded in 2013. Dividend Warrant Others Request Total 1079 1079 The Global IT sector ? Enterprises are increasingly outsourcing their technology and IT services Our economic performance and requirements to global IT services providers, leveraging their capability to value add to investors deliver on a global scale and competitive prices. While global technology spending grew by 4.5 % in 2013, global IT sourcing grew at almost double this rate to record an 8% growth in 2013, according to ‘Strategic Review Report Investors in Wipro are key stakeholders and must get fair returns for investing in 2014’ of the National Association of Software and Service Companies the company. Our endeavor is to report the true and fair financial results in a (NASSCOM). timely manner and communicate the business outlook, risks and opportunities. ? Global IT service providers offer a range of end-to-end solutions including With reliable financial results and consistent messaging of economic Software Development, IT Business Solutions, Research & Development environment, investors are empowered to take investment decision best suited Services, Business Process Outsourcing (BPO), Consulting and related to their risk profile. support functions. Wipro and Investor Engagement 141 The India IT sector clients Domestic IT – BPO revenue (excluding hardware) is expected to grow at 14% to gross Rs. 1047 billion in FY 2013. It is expected to grow at 13-16% in FY 2014. Strong economic growth, rapid advancement in technology infrastructure, increasingly competitive ? Over the past two decades, India has steadily emerged as a leading sourcing Indian organizations, enhanced focus by government and emergence of destination for global IT Services, BPO and Research & Development business models that help provide IT to new customer segments are services. key drivers for increased technology adoption in India. ? Global IT services providers from India possess a proven track record of The NASSCOM Report estimates the revenues of India-based IT-BPM ? delivering competitive and effective solutions; duly aided by country’s large industry to be US$118 billion in the fiscal year 2014, which corresponds to a and highly skilled English-speaking talent pool coupled with a friendly YoY growth of 8.8%. IT export revenues from India, excluding hardware, are regulatory environment. estimated at 13%. ? Growth drivers of India-based IT Services Providers: While the growth has been broad-based across all customer segments, the ? ¡ A vast pool of highly skilled and competent workforce available at segments of government, enterprise consumers and small and medium comparatively lower wages helps India with significant cost and businesses are estimated to have made larger contribution to this growth. productivity advantages. India-based IT services providers have been With nearly 27% of the total business coming from India, domestic market maintaining their cost competitiveness through various measures such remained a key growth driver, with an estimated growth of 9.7% in 2014, as adding delivery networks in Tier II/III cities, offsetting wage inflation with operational gains and productivity enhancement. ¡ The NASSCOM Report estimates the IT-Business Process Management industry in India to employ nearly 3.1 million software professionals as of March 31, 2014, making it one of the largest employers in the global IT services industry. ¡ Favorable policies such as The Software Technology Park (“STP”) Scheme and the Special Economic Zone Act of the Government of India have been instrumental in the development of robust IT and BPO sectors. ¡ Rapid transformation of the telecom sector coupled with lowered cost of international connectivity and improvement in service standard has benefitted the sector immensely. ¡ India-based IT Services companies possess proven abilities to deliver premium IT and BPO services to exacting quality needs of international 142 Wipro and Investor Engagement Wipro's Financial Performance Financial Assistance from the Government Wipro's economic value add and distribution among its constituents is broadly The India IT sector has been a leading generator of direct and indirect consistent in FY 13-14 when compared with FY 12-13. employment as illustrated in the India IT sector overview. Also it has been a generator of foreign exchange for the country. In light of such contributions to 2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 the economy fiscal incentives have been provided by the Government to the Particulars Rs.In Mn. % Rs.In Mn. % Rs.In Mn. % sector. Revenue 318,747 100.0% 374,256 100.0% 434,269 100.0% Wipro has benefitted from such incentives extended to the IT sector as Operating cost 113,813 35.7% 127,283 34.2% 141,706 32.6% illustrated in the table below. We have not received any other direct or indirect financial assistance beyond the scope of the state policy. Employee Wages 148,350 46.5% 179,627 48.3% 206,568 47.6% and benefits Payments to government 2012 2013* 2014* India 12,995 4.1% 16,576 4.5% 21,767 5.0% Benefit from Income tax 10,501 11,077 13,987 exemption (in INR. Mn) Others 4,065 1.3% 5,314 1.4% 2,293 0.5% Percentage of tax benefit to Payments to providers of Capital Profit Before Tax (PBT) 15% 14% 14% Interest 937 0.3% 863 0.2% 868 0.2% PBT 69,814 78,688 101,143 Dividend 14,836 4.7% 14,188 3.8% 19,920 4.6% * Subsequent to demerger of non-IT business, this is only for IT business Economic Value retained 23,751 7.5% 30,405 8.2% 41,147 9.5% Profit After tax as 2012 2013 = 17.7% % of Revenues 2013 2014 = 18.0% Note: Effective March 31, 2013, Wipro Group completed the demerger of its consumer care and lighting, infrastructure engineering and other non-IT business segments. Consequent to the demerger, the financial position of Wipro Limited as at March 31, 2013 includes only the balances of the continuing IT business and are therefore strictly not comparable with the financial position of the previous year. Corresponding figures for previous year presented have been regrouped, where necessary, to conform to the current year presentation and classification. Wipro and Investor Engagement 143 Natural Capital Valuation Coalition (NCC), for example, is developing a Natural Capital Protocol to provide a standardised approach to natural capital accounting and valuation for businesses. The launch of new rankings indices such as the Natural Capital The context Leaders Index also aims to identify leaders in this area. In 2012, apparel footwear and accessories company PUMA published the world’s first environmental profit Natural capital can be defined as the world’s stocks of natural resources which and loss account – for a total sales of 2706 Mn Euros, total environmental impacts make human life possible. Businesses rely on this natural capital to produce goods were estimated at 145 Mn Euros. and deliver services. They depend on natural non-renewable resources (for example, fossil fuels and minerals) as well as natural renewable ecosystem goods Wipro’s Environmental Profit and Loss Account and services (for example, freshwater and pollination). Businesses also rely on natural capital for its ability to absorb by-products of production such as Wipro, in association with Trucost, has now attempted a similar environmental pollution and water. Business extraction and production activities can damage Profit and Loss account of its entire value chain for the last financial year 2013-14. natural capital with long term economic and social consequences, which are The valuation looks at all our global operational footprint (from energy related more often paid by those affected rather than those responsible. emissions, water consumption, air/water pollution, waste generation and management, land use change), business travel, employee commute and the These economic and social consequences manifest themselves as physical, embedded natural capital in all goods and services we procure. Operational data, regulatory and reputational risks for companies. One of the most useful ways for business data and employee commute valuation mainly relies on actual data, companies to account for these risks is to quantify and value the environmental extrapolated for a few global locations and environmental categories.The natural impacts generated across their value chains in monetary terms. capital embedded in goods and services is primarily based on valuation Traditional ‘single parameter’ environmental metrics such as cubic metres of methodology that is based on Trucost's econometric Input-Output model which water or hectares of land provide an indication of the scale of dependency on takes in spend across different sub-categories of procurement. Monetisation of ecosystem goods and services or environmental impacts. However, they often fail impacts is based on emerging models and a selection of global and local factors to identify optimisation opportunities for business. Natural capital valuation, on hence certain assumptions and accounting rules are inherent to the exercise. the other hand, provides a deeper insight because it factors scale alongside critical For the 2013-14 financial year, the total environmental costs relating to Wipro’s environmental parameters such as regional water scarcity and the ecosystem operations and supply chain was equal to INR 8,614 million. The largest services provided by land. contributions (see first chart) came from GHG emissions (55%), water There are several global and country led projects underway which aim to develop abstraction (20%) and air pollution (16%). The second chart below shows the environmental accounts and integrate them with traditional national accounts breakdown in environmental costs across each value chain stage.The operational (GDP) including India. UNPRI, in 2010, estimated the environmental costs due to value chain stage accounted for 53% of Wipro’s total environmental cost. From a activities of top 3000 companies at US$ 6 Trillion per year. The Natural Capital geography perspective, as expected, India accounts for 86% of the overall environmental cost. 144 Wipro and Investor Engagement Our environmental programs (emissions reduction, water recycling) have reduced the overall environmental costs by INR 1,009 million. (12% of the total 2013-14 environmental costs). For Wipro, this study provides useful indicators to understand impact assess value of our environmental programs and probably use a shadow price for programs and investments. For external stakeholders like customers and analysts, this is a unique way to demonstrate full accounting of our impacts. This is likely to be the first such comprehensive assessment by an Indian company. GHSs Water Abstraction Air Pollution Supply chain: Employee commuting 518, 6% 764 1351, 16% 209, 2% Water Polution 57, 1% Land Use Changes Supply chain: Business travel 715 1739, 20% Waste Supply chain: Fuel and energy related activities 1423 Supply chain: Purchased goods 4740, 55% and services 1134 Operational 4577 0 500 1000 1500 2000 2500 3000 3500 4000 4500 5000 Chart 1: Environmental Indicator Valuation (in INR Mn), Percentage Chart 2:Value Chain Split Valuation (in INR Mn) Wipro and Investor Engagement 145 1952 AD, China Reviving China’s Mother River Few waterways capture the soul of a nation more deeply than the Yellow, or the Huang, as it’s known in China. Acknowledged as the cradle of Chinese civilization today, the Mother River is dying, owing to pollution, and ill-conceived dams. The South–North Water Transfer Project, is a ambitious, multi-decade, infrastructure mega-project undertaken by the People’s Republic of China that will take the bountiful waters of the Yangtze and link it to the Yellow River hopefully breathing new life into this revered water body. While this will ease the water crises in cities like Beijing and Tianjin in the north, there are concerns that at least 330,000 people will lose their homes and jobs down south and pollution will rise. ? Hukou Waterfall Sustainable Supply Chain 8.Sustainable Supply Chain 5f Organizations now increasingly realize that the impacts of the business do not end within its boundaries, but are felt across the ecosystem and stakeholders in the value chain. Outsourcing business activities does not absolve them of their Ethical: Ecological: obligations and responsibilities. Supply chain can contribute significantly to an Engaging beyond compliance Protecting the environment organization's complete value chain impacts. However, the context, scale and and evaluating and controlling exposure to risks complexity of modern supply chains pose challenges for organizations to identify, influence and control these impacts. The Annual Global Supply Chain Survey conducted by PwC in 2013 among 500 supply chain executives from across the world came up with new insights about how businesses look at supply chain sustainability. More than two thirds of respondents to the survey were of the opinion that sustainability will increasingly become the focus of supply chain management in the coming years. A study by Trucost approximates that supply chain contributes to about 93% of natural (ecological) impact of technology firms (aggregated across product manufacturing as well as services firms) as against 7% from its direct operations. This ratio can differ across sectors. Trucost's natural capital accounting study for the reporting year estimates that the ratio of supply chain impacts to operational impacts for Wipro is at 50:50 in percentage terms. The supply chain sustainability program of Wipro rests on four pillars of being ethical, ecological, responsible and local. Encompassing these pillars are governance and management frameworks, which help in communicating our Responsible: Diverse and Local: Ensure ethical labour practices Promoting diversity in supply expectations, build awareness and set us on a path of continuous improvement. chain and local sourcing Sustainable Supply Chain 149 Material Issues in Our Supply Chain Engagement Areas Our first aim was to gain a broad understanding of material aspects across our Our engagement with the major categories of our supply chain is summarized supply chain. This we did by conducting an environmental and social risk below assessment of our supplier base in association with two UK based organizations (Trucost and Fronesys in 2012 and revised in 2013). The economic/financial risk assessment was conducted by the ERM function in Wipro. Supplier Category Engagement Plan Company employees See “Work Place Sustainability” at Wipro Human Partner employees Resources Partner Employee Engagement Economic Environmental Social Support staff Initiative (GIS business unit) (skilled/unskilled) ? Probability of ? Compliance with ? Human rights and Transport providers ? Supplier engagement program default regulations labour practices Service Utility (water, waste, ? Communicating code of conduct ? Bankruptcy ? High carbon (forms of bonded Providers electricity) labour, statutory ? Audits and assessments ? Corruption risks footprint benefits denial, Hospitality and facility ? Incorporation in procurement Nature of ? Water management working hours, criteria aspects consumption discrimination, Materials & ? Natural capital accounting study ? Waste generation work place Civil & infrastructure Equipment ? Supplier diversity program harassment, child Providers Software / hardware labour) ? Corruption For an IT services organization like ours, the supplier ecosystem comprises of a ? Spread across ? Computer and ? Office services supplier categories electronic product (security, casual high proportion of contract staff both, people involved in core delivery with manufacturing labour, food specialized technology and consulting skills as well as skilled or unskilled support Supplier suppliers) ? Electrical staff who work in campus operations. This dependency on external human categories equipment, ? Facility services to which resource providers brings with it potential risks related to compliance on human appliance, and ? Travel aspects are component rights and labour practices.The details of these can be found in the section “Work relevant ? Consumables manufacturing ? Paper ? Energy Place Sustainability”. manufacturing 150 Sustainable Supply Chain Key Programs Supplier Diversity Local Procurement Wipro encourages supplier diversity by identifying and engaging qualified Recognizing the socio-economic benefits of local procurement, we encourage suppliers in the following categories: (a) supplier firms owned by person with sourcing from the local economy. At an aggregate level, nearly 81% of our disability (b) Women owned enterprises and (c) minority owned enterprise. suppliers are based in India; by value 73% of the procurement for the year was Wipro is an equal opportunity employer and strongly advocates the same from India based suppliers. Local sourcing reduces costs, provides local through its supply chain. The quantum of spending from these categories employment benefits and reduced environmental footprint in sourcing. contributes 11.4% of our total central procurement tracked spend for India operations. (Note:The above diversity classification is based on supplier self-disclosure and Integrated Facility Management Services is not verified) One of the major supply chain related challenge faced by the organization was the supply side fragmentation and the resultant complexity of facility Anti-Corruption and Ombuds process for Suppliers management supply chain. We used to engage 102 vendors for services like housekeeping, pest control, waste management, mail room management, front A dedicated vendor helpdesk handles supplier queries on payment issues, policy office operations, landscaping, inventory management and engineering services. clarifications and provides the initial contact for grievance redressal. Our To ensure better governance and traceability among these suppliers and organization wide multi-lingual Ombuds process is available 24x7 (phone and thereby improve the operational efficiency of the operations, we consolidated internet enabled) for our Suppliers and Contractors. While a good proportion all services across facility management, including consumables under one single of Ombuds process cases are anonymous, based on self-disclosure, we know scope of service and outcome based model, wherein one supplier is accountable that there were 16 complaints reported by suppliers during the year. There for delivery & performance. We managed to reduce the total number of were two instances of serious supplier breaches of our code of conduct, both of suppliers and contracts to less than five across operations. We continue to who have been black listed. There have been no instances related to anti-trust in engage with these five integrated services providers on incorporating the reporting period across our business divisions. sustainability governance across their value chain. However, in comparison, third party sub-contracting may have the potential impact of reducing the direct control and influence over tier 2 and tier 3 suppliers. Sustainable Supply Chain 151 Case Studies GHG Emission Water Abstration Natural Capital Accounting 5% 3% Land Use Air Pollution 16% 39% Waste The natural capital accounting study was conducted in association with Trucost to quantify the environmental impact relating to purchased goods and services using procurement data and supplier environmental performance data, where available. Trucost uses an econometric input-output (E-I-O) model that estimates environmental impact intensity to revenues for each of the 500 business activities/sector groupings in their database. The environmental impacts considered include GHG emissions, air pollution, water abstraction and pollution, waste and land use change. Spend data of the reporting year (2013-14) for a total 37% of 1047 unique suppliers of Wipro was the basis used for the estimates. One of the focus areas of this study was to identify suppliers and facilities which Figure 1 Natural Capital Valuation by Environmental Indicator represent the greatest environmental “hot spots” areas of risk and opportunity. The top 10 suppliers in spend, account for 20% of the total GHG emissions and 16% of total expenditure. The majority of the suppliers operate in the professional, scientific, and technical services spend category. Value chain Valuation (INR million) % Contribution Operational 4,577.00 53% Supply chain: Purchased goods and services 1,134.00 13% Supply chain: Fuel and energy related activities 1,423.00 17% Supply chain: Business travel 715.00 8% Supply chain: Employee commuting 764.00 9% Total 8,613.00 100% Figure 1 Natural Capital Valuation by Environmental Indicator 152 Sustainable Supply Chain Supplier Engagement Program The Next Steps Wipro has a multi-pronged approach towards supplier engagement. The program involves the communication of a code of conduct and category requirements to suppliers, conducting audits and assessments to monitor compliance with the Code of Conduct (COC) and continuous improvement through partnerships with suppliers. The first step in this direction was the launch of supplier code of conduct (SCOC) communicating key requirements in business practices, environmental and social aspects to the suppliers in 2012-13. It is now mandatory for the suppliers to accept and sign the Code of Conduct. Sustainable solid waste and e-waste management is dependent on the maturity of the external supplier eco-system and the maturity of this sector, especially in developing economies like India, is low due to the socio-economic context and largely unregulated (informal) nature of the industry. We completed two independent studies which looked at solid waste and e-waste management across our value chain; which also included audits of 14 external suppliers. We also piloted food safety audits at two of our campuses.These audits have helped us understand critical areas of intervention. Currently, we are in the process of identifying material issues of the main procurement categories and develop specific requirements for communicating expectations. This in turn will be input to the audit protocol development for evaluating vendors/suppliers. We expect this to help us in building an effective management system to continuously evaluate sustainability risks in the supply chain and encourage responsible actions from our partners. Sustainable Supply Chain 153 1871 AD, New Zealand New Zealand’s Karori Dam Started in 1871, Wellington’s frst public water supply reservoir was a boat-shaped dam in the suburb of Karori which diverted the waters of the Te Aro Stream through a series of cast iron pipes. Another dam, the Lower Karori, built ? A lone man sits on the Baker’s Hill gold mining weir, which had supplied on the Kaiwharawhara Stream was completed water to a stamper battery. in 1878, spelling the end of Wellington’s water woes for a short time – but not for long as it couldn’t keep up with population growth and industrial demands. ? Karori Upper Dam Education and Community 5g.Education and Community 5g Management Approach and at the level of the partner organisation.The outcomes have been drawn from our interactions with the field, project reviews with partners and our partners’ Our social transformation initiatives have been in place for nearly 15 years. Over own observations and records from the field. These have not been assessed or the years, our approach has been to engage in social issues with sensitivity, rigor verified independently. In future we aim to do this as well as qualify the long term and responsibility. impacts of some of our longer running programs. Education and Community Care are the two areas that we decided focus on when we started. The reasons for this deliberate set of choices have the same compelling validity today as they had then ? Education is the only catalyst of social development that can bring about change which is truly sustainable and durable over the long term; and ? It is a fundamental responsibility of every business to engage deeply with its Education Community Care Digital Inclusion proximate communities and to try to address some of their biggest challenges ? Wipro Applying ? Wipro Cares ? Assure Health Digital Inclusion is a more recent addition to our community program through its thought in Schools Interventions in ? e-Governance focus on low cost technology interventions in health care and enabling citizen Systemic reform in proximate Projects learning outcomes in communities of our ? Rural BPO IT in science and services. school operations Community and Measuring Outcomes ? Mission10X ? Primary Healthcare education programs: interventions in ? Disaster ¡ Participative In the sections below, we have summarized work in different programs in terms engineering Rehabilitation Aquifer mapping education of Input, Output and Outcome.This is the first attempt at representing our work ? Local city programs: project (PAQM) ? SEF (Science Education, Urban Seasonwatch using such a framework. Our inputs to the program and the outputs from it have ¡ Education environment, been easier to discern. Deriving the outcomes has been more challenging. We ¡ Good books Fellowship)in the US Livelihood have tried to assess the outcomes at two levels – the project or intervention level STEM education ? IT for Social Change ? Employee (Planned from 2015) capacity building Volunteering ? Earthian Education ? Disability (planned in for Sustainability 2014-15) Education and Community 157 Wipro Applying thought in Schools Schools School leadership and ? management, principal Civil Society Wipro Applying Thought in Schools was setup in the early 2000s to work in the and teachers' Organizations understanding of area of school education. The program was born out of Wipro’s idea of good Good education Whole school support, ? citizenship that a corporation’s ‘power to do good’ must manifest in thoughtful School and Classroom ? teacher capacity and deliberate set of initiatives towards a social purpose. Education was chosen as environment/culture building, support for the sphere of work as it’s a significant enabler for social change. Teaching-learning ? children in schools practices, Teacher Strengthen the ? Wipro Applying Thought in Schools has been working consistently since its Knowledge in subjects academic support inception to further the goal of systemic reform in school education. The Regulatory and system for schools Support Structures Engage in Research and ? program’s vision of good education derives from ideas such as learning with Community Development in understanding, integrated or holistic learning and cultivating an ethos of ?Education Policies and curriculum, pedagogy democracy, justice and equality. (More details on our idea of good education and laws, Central and State Understanding of ? and assessment the concerns in school education are articulated in the two documents, Our idea Education Good education Support Governments ? Departments, School Awareness of laws and ? and education of Good Education and Our concerns on school education ). These ideas are Boards policies and departments for also in alignment with education as envisioned in the National Curriculum ?Curriculum, Pedagogy, functioning of schools reform in these areas Framework (NCF) 2005. Assessment reforms Involving in School ? Community ? ?Administrative and Management, providing engagement to academic support community support improve education and The Education Ecosystem systems for schools and monitoring of strengthen the school education towards system The school education ecosystem includes many participants at different levels. improving access and Public/Media Advocacy ? Some of the key roles and areas of work within each level are presented below. quality of education on ideas of good The functioning of the system is a complex interplay among the various education participants at different levels. Work with the ? Society Governments and education Public perceptions and ? departments on policy ideas about good advocacy education Public/Media discourse ? on education 158 Education and Community Approach and Strategy School education not being the core competency of a business entity, we see our role as one of enabling and empowering others who work in this domain. Civil society organizations being a key lever of change, our approach is to work with Project Initiation/Proposal Phase them and support them to develop and enhance their capacity in working for We involve closely in the projects, by being systemic reform in education.We work closely in a partnership model, providing in touch with the partners, through field project and programmatic grants, to the organizations to develop and pilot visits, review meetings and calls and periodic reports from partners and also participate innovative ideas and practices and work with various stakeholders to build in key decisions. At the end of the project period, a comprehensive review is done and capacity in the system to implement these ideas and further educational reform together with the partner, the need and across different contexts and geographies in the country. We support potential is assessed and a decision taken on extending the project. organizational learning by catalyzing and facilitating a reflective learning network of educational organizations, and by nurturing newly developing organizations with the help of established organizations. Program review is done at multiple levels. Every 3 to 4 years, the program strategy Getting to know the Organization Closure/Distribution is reviewed with the Chief Sustainability Officer (CSO), based on the work so far, We visit the organizations, meet the people, The learning from the project is assessed see the work on the ground, go through any and consolidated by the partner and ways and revised as needed. Every year, an annual review and goal setting is done with documentation, material etc they have are explored to further share the learning the CSO and presented to the Chairman and Chief Executives Council (CEC). produced to understand the organization with the larger education ecosystem as and its work appropriate and/or to spread/implement Every quarter, the progress is reviewed by the CSO and presented to the the concept in other regions Chairman and the CEC. Our work with organizations are usually in the nature of a project or a program support. They typically span a period of 3 years and may be extended further, if Project Implementation Phase needed. We work closely with our partners and review the progress and We involve closely in the projects, by being participate in important decisions along with them during the lifecycle of the in touch with the partners, through field visits, review meetings and calls and periodic project. The workflow, lifecycle and review processes at the project level are reports from partners and also participate captured below. in key decisions. At the end of the project period, a comprehensive review is done and together with the partner, the need and potential is assessed and a decision taken on extending the project Education and Community 159 Program Outcome and Impact The most significant outcome of our program has been the growth of our partner Another noteworthy outcome has been our Annual Partners' Forum. It has organizations. Many of our partners have grown significantly in their impact in emerged as a unique annual gathering of educational community, where education at the state and national levels, enhanced their capabilities and practitioners get together to engage in reflective discussions and exchanges. effectiveness in areas they have been working in and developed new capabilities Often new ideas emerge, key educational issues are discussed and crossthrough the years. Our partnership has been one of the factors that have enabled leveraged in these gatherings. The above assessment is based on our close them to achieve this growth and impact. engagement and interaction with partners and their work, these have not been studied systematically. Some of the more tangible outcomes from our work have been: Organizations and People Educational Material & Literature Public Advocacy School Reach out ? Associated with 60 organizations at ? Published 8 books, booklets and reports ? Student Learning in Metros Study results ? Overall we have worked with over 2300 different levels of engagement. eg: Water Stories, Why the Sky is Blue widely shared; appeared as a cover story schools and 13,250 educators across 17 ? Worked closely with 35 organizations & ? Developed Learning Standards and of “India Today” states, reaching around 1 million supported 67 projects. Curriculum Map for primary classes ? Student Misconception videos students. ? Developed strategic focus on a few ? Developed a video series on Student disseminated to 10,000 schools ? The indirect reach of our work through themes and areas like ecology, social Misconceptions ? Quality Education Study becomes the our partners is manifold the number of sciences, languages, affective education, most cited study in 2011-12; large-scale schools that we have reached out to creating education material and public advocacy campaign (between 25-50X). advocacy. ? SLIM Study 2006 brought out the need ? Supported 18 Fellows for individual to go beyond rote memorization to work in Education; eg: for writing a book conceptual understanding on Learning Psychology of Children, ? QES 2011 highlighted quality in documenting our projects etc education to be broader than academic learning In 2013-14, we supported 27 new and continuing initiatives (organizations/projects and fellowships).These may be grouped into a few theme-areas – some based on knowledge areas/disciplines in education like ecology and social sciences and some based on outcome areas like organization development and educational material development. Our work in 2013-14 In the sections below, we have summarized our work in the different theme-areas in terms of Input, Output and Outcome.This is the first attempt at representing our work in such a manner. Our inputs to the program and the outputs from it have been easier to discern. Deriving the outcomes has been more challenging.We have tried to look at the outcomes at two levels – the project or intervention level and the organization level.The outcomes have been drawn from our regular interactions with our partners and the field, periodic project reviews and our partners’ own observations and records from the field.These have not been assessed or verified independently. 160 Education and Community Ecology We have chosen ecology as one of our focus areas as this is a domain which does NCF and earthian,Wipro’s own sustainability education program for schools and not get sufficient attention or the right kind of attention in school education. colleges. Collectively, these programs aim to develop a portfolio of diverse Over the last few years, we have expanded our work to 4 projects.These include approaches covering various aspects of ecology and sustainability education, SeasonWatch with National Centre for Biological Sciences (NCBS) and Nature eventually leading to a set of effective ecology/sustainability education approach Conservation Foundation (NCF), Green School Programme II (GSP II) with and strategies for a wide variety of objectives and contexts in ecology and Centre for Science and Environment (CSE), a project on Nature Education with education. Input Output Outcome Org level ? Financial support for all projects Workshops with various organizations/bodies across the ? ? SeasonWatch is now a 5-yr old institution with an expanded ? Review of project progress and operations for SeasonWatch country on SeasonWatch and strengthened team as well as an established base in ? Critical evaluation of the project with CSE and evolving focus Workshops with teachers and activities with children in ? Kerala and fledgling participation in the rest of the country and approach for further work Kerala through SeasonWatch ? Earthian has gained credibility as a sustainability education ? Participation in program and content design in Earthian 285 schools participating in SW in Kerala ? program for schools and colleges; program design and SW crossed 50000 tree observations ? evaluation processes have stabilized; team has enhanced capacity through increased team strength as well as Continued engagement with schools as part of the GSP II ? partnerships program with CSE; ? CSE has increased its capacity to work closely with schools Resource material produced by NCF; Articles published on ? on improving ecological footprint ecology in newspapers and children’s magazines ? NCF is improving its capability to engage with education Resource book on water and sustainability for earthian was ? outreach and understanding its effectiveness brought out; material reached 5000+ schools through online as well as offline channels Project/Program level ATREE workshop on “forests and biodiversity” conducted ? ? Increased participation from schools and children in for selected schools as part of earthian continuing SeasonWatch engagement program ? Increased availability of data for the scientific objectives ? Improved solutions implemented in GSP II schools for various environmental issues faced by the schools such as water, waste, energy etc.; Improved awareness among teachers and students about these issues and some possible solutions ? Around 350 schools and 200 colleges participated in earthian ? Increased consciousness about water and conservation and their own usage and context among schools, children and teachers who participated in earthian ? Increased engagement on issues in the domain of sustainability in colleges who participated in earthian Education and Community 161 Affective Education and School Environment For good education to happen, a conducive environment in the school and the belong to this broad focus area. Examples are the work by The Teacher classroom is essential. This spans a wide array of matters including the freedom Foundation (TTF) to make schools safe and sensitive spaces, the Kabir projects to that the school system provides to all stakeholders; how emotionally safe the efforts to bring mystic poetry into classrooms, the Quality Education Study which child finds the school to be, the amount of free time a child gets to play, read or tried to understand the school environment in the popularly best private schools just be within our education system etc. Equally important is the area of in Metro cities. Currently, we are working with The Teacher Foundation to affective education, covering aspects such as development of attitudes, beliefs, develop a framework for teachers and educators to unpack the concept of Social values, feelings, emotions, interpersonal relations etc. A few of our projects and Emotional Learning (SEL). Input Output Outcome Org level ? Financial support ? Comprehensive literature study and report on SEL ? Understanding about SEL as a domain has significantly ? Active engagement in advisory council as well as regular ? Preliminary survey conducted with teachers and expanded within TTF and Wipro teams project review meetings to influence the strategy and psychologists regarding SEL developmental milestones Project/Program level approach to develop the SEL framework ? Draft set of tools for perception survey with teachers, ? Validation of ages at which SEL outcomes would emerge in ? Meetings with Kabir project students and parents children in the Indian context. ? Pre-consultation with a group of experts in different ? Initial ideas are emerging for a framework and approach disciplines about a framework for SEL towards SEL ? Development of tools in phase 2 of the Indian Framework Study for the larger SEL study. ? Existing content from Kabir project’s work with schools is being edited to put it online ? One book is being produced based on the past work with schools; New books being developed around mystic property 162 Education and Community Languages Language is an overarching capability that enables a wide range of other learning; education by working with schools and community centres in Bhopal in an action deficiencies in language learning and capabilities can severely impact all other research mode; once developed, this can be further disseminated and used for learning outcomes. India is a multi-lingual/ multi-cultural society and this is policy advocacy. reflected in the classrooms too. Increasingly, a multilingual approach is seen as more effective in developing language capabilities among children. We are supporting Eklavya and Muskaan to develop a multilingual approach to language Input Output Outcome Org level ? Financial support Workshops conducted for capacity building of team ? ? Eklavya team is gaining capacity and understanding to work ? Participation in workshops, field visits and project review 6 sites/schools with varied socio-cultural and linguistic ? on multilingual education in schools and communities in meetings context identified by Eklavya to work at Bhopal Profile of schools, students and languages in classroom ? ? Muskaan team is gaining capacity in systematizing and mapped documenting their pioneering work in multilingual education Good literature from different publishers for use in ? Project/Program level classrooms have been identified. ? Improved language learning among children in Muskaan Content in children’s language created through translation ? centres and sourcing from community ? Feeling of importance and empowerment among children in Draft of English beginners’ module for teachers prepared to ? the Muskaan centres as they are involved in the creation of improve the teacher’s capability in English material in their mother-tongues for use in classroom Muskaan increased their multi-lingual learning centres from 2 ? ? Enhanced sense of identity among the community that to 4 Muskaan works with, as they develop a better understanding Material developed to teach english in a multi-lingual manner ? of their own history, awareness about issues in society and so on 2 stories from the community ready for publication as ? reading material for children ? Documentation of Muskaan’s multilingual pedagogy available for wider dissemination Classroom sessions conducted with co-creation of content ? in the children’s languages such as Pardhi and Gondi Education and Community 163 Social Sciences Unlike Natural Sciences, matters in Social Sciences do not fit into formulas nor is which brought out the various aspects of History as a discipline and how this can any one theory able to explain across time and space any significant aspect of be learnt in schools. Currently, we work with Vikramshila on a project which is societies.There is a multiplicity of ways of seeing the world and this can be very developing an integrated/interdisciplinary approach to social sciences. confusing and needs attention of a different kind. Our serious engagement with this theme area began with a Partners' forum on History and education in 2010 Input Output Outcome Org level ? Financial support ? Meetings with subject matter experts to understand the ? Improved capacity in Vikramshila to further integrated ? Participation in workshops with teachers, program reviews significance and nature existing curriculum of Social Sciences approach to social science curriculum and pedagogy ? Creation of material on various themes like 'gender', Project/Program level 'markets', 'diversity', 'livelihoods' etc. created and used in ? New resource material available to teachers and students to schools understand important concepts like gender and diversity. ? Nearly 8000 students reached through 82 teachers who ? Awareness among teachers about an integrated approach to attended workshops conducted by Vikramshila social sciences curriculum and pedagogy ? An exposure to a holistic understanding of social sciences for children who participated in this programme 164 Education and Community Education Material and Literature Quality education literature helps further the teacher, parent and society’s ideas publication of variety of content for children, some books and journals for and understanding about good education and ways to achieve it. Availability of a teachers and larger public in collaboration with organizations like Tulika, Eklavya wide range of books for children which are appropriate for different ages, and Education Dialog Trust. We have recently launched a portal, Goodbooks.in, contexts and cognitive levels creates an environment conducive to take children catering to reviews and articles on good children’s literature from the Indian beyond the textbook and into a world of imagination, creativity and sensitivity. context. Our initiatives in this area have been very diverse. We have been supporting Input Output Outcome Org level ? Financial support Goodbooks.in, a portal of book reviews and a blog on Indian ? ? Goodbooks.in is evolving into a one-of-its-kind initiative ? Review and feedback on documents, book concepts, and children’s literature was launched focused on Indian children’s literature for parents and drafts before publishing and disseminating Around 150 contemporary Indian children’s books reviewed ? educators ? Participation in conceptualization of design and strategies for on the site ? Chakmak, Eklavya’s children’s magazine, has strengthened as dissemination Tulika reprinted Water Stories and Why the Sky is Blue. ? an initiative Tulika brought out First Look Science Series for early ? Project/Program level readers in 9 Indian languages ? A variety of content has become available for children as 4 news books by Tulika are in progress ? books and magazines in multiple Indian languages. Translation of Kamala’s “What did you ask in School today” ? ? Chakmak children’s magazine has improved its quality by into Kannada, Hindi and Malayalam are in progress. introducing a variety of features 2 issues of Contemporary Education Dialog published ? ? Water stories and Why the Sky is Blue (books produced by Chakmak, a children’s magazine in Hindi, is being published ? Tulika in partnership with Wipro) is being used in diverse every month contexts, by various people ? Information on good books in Indian children’s literature and other interesting content about children’s literature is available for parents and educators through Goodbooks.in ? A small set of users have started accessing the content on Goodbooks.in Education and Community 165 Organizational Support In addition to the focused work around specific themes,WATIS has continued to supporting the Education Resource Centre of Vidyabhawan in improving the support several organizations to build and expand their capabilities and expertise quality of education in Vidyabhawan schools as well as other schools in Udaipur, across several areas in school education. The organization support programs supporting Center for Equity Studies in developing education support models at don’t always stick to the focus theme areas like ecology or language alone. homes for street children and so on.Apart from financial support, participation in However, a commitment to the ideas and sensibilities reflected in National these projects also involve shaping the project idea, reviewing critical milestones Curriculum Framework 2005 is something that we look for in the projects and as well as the overall program and helping partners connect to other organizations we work with. organizations and resources that may be useful to develop their capacities and further their work. Some examples include the Shiksha Samarthan Pariyojana with Digantar to improve the quality of education in govt schools in the Phagi block of Rajastan, Input Output Outcome Org level ? Financial support Worksheets for class 3, 4 and 5 on Maths and Language were ? ? Vidyabhawan Eduation Resource Centre is gaining ? Participation in periodic reviews of organization’s activities consolidated. Worksheets on EVS is being developed. experience in conducting research studies, improving their and progress Study on language and mathematics with primary teachers ? understanding of teachers’ perception and improving their ? Inputs to organizational agenda, specific projects or other piloted and revised based on findings ability to support capacity building of VB schools organizational issues where possible Workshops, trainings and academic support of teachers in ? ? Dil Se homes have developed a stable education support Vidyabhawan schools model; A well-developed structure and approach towards Lifeskills program developed for Dil Se homes ? planning and management of education, lifeskills and extraRegular education support activities conducted at Dil Se ? curricular activities has been evolved homes ? Team at Phagi has improved their understanding and capacity Trainings and learning activities undertaken by Phagi project ? to work with the government schools in Phagi team for teacher empowerment through reflective practice ? Improved resource and team strength at Shikshamitra to Schools visits, monthly meetings with teachers conducted ? carry out their work in primary education Meetings and discussions with block level education officials ? ? NEEV team is developing their understanding about the in Phagi issues in secondary education and their ability to design Resource centre established ? appropriate interventions 166 Education and Community Input Output Outcome Newsletter published ? Project/Program level Schools identified in Jaipur by NEEV to work to improve ? ? Improved capacity of teachers in Vidyabhawan schools transition of children from primary to upper primary classes ? Worksheets for different subjects in primary classes available; Baseline survey of student learning levels being carried out ? this will help provide additional material for teachers to use Library established at the Shikshamitra resource centre in ? in classroom for children to work with Kolkata ? Improved academic performance, learning and development 3 sets of early reader story cards published ? of Children at Dil Se open homes for street children 3 items of documentation produced on Shikshamitra's past ? ? A good rapport has developed with schools, teachers and the programs officials Team expanded ? ? Newsletter available as a means to share ideas and learnings Research study initiated on understanding or decoding the ? from the project with the teachers in Phagi errors in children's writing ? New material available in Bangla for early readers; There is 2 Learning collectives organized by Shiksharth in Delhi ? lot of demand for the material from teachers, parents and among teachers, school leaders and department officials schools Small research conducted on children's perception of ? ? Learning and insights from Shikshamitra’s past work is education and school experiences available as documents for others to learn from Activities undertaken towards development of education ? leadership courses in collaboration with other organizations Education and Community 167 CASE STUDIES Case Study I -TheTeacher Foundation The Teacher Foundation (TTF) has been one of Wipro’s earliest partners.Wipro The SASS initiative involved intense work with the selected schools. In the first has been a partner in TTF's journey from 2002, when it was a 3 member year, it focused on training teachers in QCT and familiarizing them with its organization working with teachers and schools in Bangalore to its present day structure and approach, to enable them to comfortably and in the right manner strength with centers in different parts of Karnataka, working with schools and conduct QCT sessions with their students. The 2nd year of the intervention teachers across the country, offering variety of programs for teacher and school focused on helping the teachers set up processes and systems in the school that development. would help instill listening and appreciation as part of the school culture.Whole School Behavior Policies were formulated through a democratic process of In the early years of Wipro’s Teacher Empowerment Program (TEP), as one of its gathering inputs from the school management, teachers and students. partners, TTF provided trainings and school based support to participating schools. When this program evolved into Whole School Transformation (WST) Through the two year engagement, the non-verbal listening systems in many projects with closer sustained engagement with schools,TTF worked closely with schools have helped children open up and talk. Bubble time, a one-on-one many schools as a partner. listening system has been effectively used by teachers to discuss problems with students and help resolve them. The consultations for Whole School Behavior From early on, the domain of teacher-student interactions, the nature of their Policy helped in bringing to surface many underlying concerns and issues and this relationship and its impact on student learning and attitudes has been an area of has brought about many positive changes in the schools' systems and processes. interest in TTF. Quality Circle Time (QCT) model, developed by Jenny Mosley Teacher interactions with students had increased in a positive manner with Consultancies, UK, is one of the core ideas around which TTF has worked to regard to discipline. Teachers’ recognition & praise was not restricted to transform the student-teacher relationship in schools and the nature of academic achievement and the overall impact was seen across different facets of classroom interactions and the school climate. teacher-student relations in the school. Learnings from these experiences and interests led to the germination of the idea Though concerted efforts were made to urge schools to re-look at their for the “Safe and Sensitive Schools” (SASS) initiative. SASS initiative, a pilot actionpractices and progress was achieved towards making these schools safer and research project supported in partnership with Wipro, was initiated in 2009-10 sensitive spaces, it was observed that the new practices were often limited to with the objective of making 15 selected schools safe and sensitive through QCT sessions, teachers are often ill-equipped to deal with sensitive issues that embedding policies, spaces and interactions that are positive, constructive, come up during such sessions and deeper change in school ethos and teacher nurturing and collaborative for students and staff alike.The Whole School Quality capabilities required more sustained efforts. Circle Time (QCT) approach was used as a core tool in this process. 168 Education and Community A need was felt to move from work done in such specific contexts to understand classrooms across India through a national survey. Synthesizing the learning from the space of Social and Emotional Learning (SEL) better so as to facilitate deeper these two exercises, TTF aims to create a framework that could be used by transformations in teachers and schools. The current phase of partnership teachers to think through and understand SEL domain better across the range of between Wipro and TTF is thus focused on deepening the team’s own contexts and situations that they face in their daily work.The framework could be understanding of SEL by looking at the SEL theory and practice globally and piloted in different schools and the learnings documented and shared with wider understanding the teachers’ and students’ perceptions and challenges in education community for further refining and wider adaption. Input Output Outcome Impact Org level ? Financial support Workshops/trainings and school based ? ? Strengthened TTF’s understanding of ? TTF has grown into an organization with a ? Regular engagement with the organization support in schools, with 1100+ teachers education, issues that teachers and close understanding of the teacher and her over the years during TEP students face in schools and the processes challenges and built capacity to help the ? Participated in regular project reviews and Deeper engagement with 1 school through ? of school transformation teacher and the school improve the quality feedback; WST projects ? Improved capacity in TTF to intervene in of learning and make schools safe and Sustained engagement with 15 schools as ? schools to create conducive learning sensitive spaces for learning ? Participated in conceptualizing and shaping the project part of SASS project environments ? Many teachers who have been part of Project documentation and reports. ? ? Developed expertise and experience in these programs have developed a deeper QCT and related processes and in understanding of education and become Literature review of SEL theory and ? facilitating schools to adopt them conscious of their own practices; some practice in other regions of the world ? Enhanced understanding of SEL theory and have become constantly learning practice individuals and teachers Project/Program level ? Teachers whom TTF have associated with for long through QCT and SASS programs ? Improved understanding of educational have become more sensitive to the theory and newer ideas in education affective aspects of education and the among teachers who participated in TEP social and emotional wellbeing of students ? Sustained changes in educational practices ? In some schools, students now have a more and school/classroom environment in sensitive and safer space to learn schools where TTF worked through WST ? New knowledge developed and ? QCT and bubble time established as documented which could potentially be practices in most SASS schools widely useful in for research and practice ? Whole School Behavior policy rolled out in purposes most SASS schools ? Improved positive interactions among teachers and students and improved school environment in some SASS schools ? A body of knowledge created on SEL theory and practice in other regions of the world Education and Community 169 Case Study II Goodbooks.in Indian children’s literature publishing has been increasing by leaps and bounds in where the Wipro team actively collaborated along with the Goodbooks team. the last decade or so. The children’s literature market in India is flooded with a Complexity of the data organization for book reviews and getting publishers to wide variety of books in Indian languages as well as English, based in a variety of partner in a new initiative have been some of the challenges. contexts and with varying quality. When choosing books for children, it’s Two years after the work started, goodbooks.in was launched in Dec 2013, with important to look at various aspects such as whether the book stimulates 1500+ book reviews from the TBR archive and a small collection of reviews of curiosity and engagement, does the content reflect any biases, is there a strong contemporary Indian children’s literature. The website also featured articles on and logical plot, is the language appropriate for children, what age or cognitive children’s literature (from TBR) and a blog covering interviews with authors and level is a book appropriate for and so on.There is often inadequate awareness and other interesting personalities from the children’s literature domain, children’s information among parents, teachers and educators about what is good children’s literature events and curated articles on relevant themes. literature and how to choose good books for children. Since its launch, goodbooks.in has been making steady progress in adding more The Goodbooks Trust has in the past worked towards increasing the availability reviews and blog content, getting more publishers to provide their books for of children’s books produced in India. Wipro and Goodbooks Trust had been in review and increasing its user base. Goodbooks.in now has a social media discussions for quite some time about creating an online platform where presence on Facebook and Twitter. More than 200 titles have been reviewed so information about Indian children’s literature can be found. The idea of far. The blog has covered children’s books events like Bookaroo, Junior Writer’s Goodbooks.in, a website that exclusively reviews, discusses and critically engages Bug etc. and interviews with people from the industry and so on. with Indian children’s books, was born through these discussions.The aim of this initiative was to promote the reviewing of children’s books in a professional Publishers have responded well to this initiative and have sent books for review. manner and as a result, enhance the understanding of what constitutes good The future goals for the team are to encourage more publishers to send their children’s books and provide a space for educators and parents to find good titles for review, strengthening the review panel and processes, providing a wide books and make information about children’s books and the issues involved variety of content through its blog and increasing the user base significantly. accessible to all interested through reviews and articles. Finding the right people and partnerships for the initiative took time and the work finally kicked off in 2011. Goodbooks and Wipro teams worked together in the project. Goodbooks team reached out to publishers, created a panel of reviewers and consolidated the entire archive of reviews of children’s books from The Book Review (TBR). The identification of technology/design partners, the conceptual and visual design of the website are some of the parts of the project 170 Education and Community Input Output Outcome Impact Financial support ? Goodbooks portal created with ? Consolidated information about good ? ? It’s only been a year since the website Participation in the core team to ? reviews, blogs, articles and databases Indian children's literature available to has been launched. The following are architect and design the Goodbooks of children's literature, authors, parents, teachers and librarians. the intended impacts of the initiative: portal and strategy to popularise it illustrators, publishers. 600+ visitors to the website every ? ? Improved quality of books selected by 200+ contemporary reviews, 1500+ ? month parents, teachers, libraries in schools. archives, 150 articles. Children’s ? Improved awareness among librarians literature events, interviews with and teachers and parents about good authors and other personalities in the children’s literature and ability to field covered on the blog. engage with children using books Regular newsletters and social media ? ? Improved reading habit among activity generated to share content children at schools and homes. from the portal with a wider audience. Education and Community 171 Case Study I1I Wipro Science Education Fellowship Program in the U.S.A. This is one of our key social initiatives in US, in line with school education as a key development and 2 years of continuing engagement in the field. Participants take area of our work as well as with the US government's identified priorities in three graduate level College of Education courses focused on STEM education Science & Math education. It focuses on contributing to improving Science and and leadership which requires approximately 145-160 hours of work, consisting Math education in inner-city schools that primarily serve disadvantaged of structured learning assignments, interaction with peers and instructors and communities, in select US cities. It was initiated in March 2013 and is now running project planning and implementation in their classrooms closely mentored by successfully in 15 districts of Greater Boston, Northern New Jersey and Greater the partnering institutes’ College of Education team. Each cohort of teachers is NewYork.We are partnering with University of Massachusetts, Boston; Montclair also undergoing a 6-week blended (combination of face-to-face and online) State University, New Jersey and Mercy College, NewYork for this program. intensive summer experience. While one of the primary goals of the capacity development is to improve teaching capacity and promote STEM education in the The initiative’s main intervention is around teacher development for which it teachers’ respective schools; there are also specific mechanisms and activities for works in close collaboration with 5 school districts in each region, to choose each of the teachers to institute change and involve other teachers at their teachers who go through a 2-3 year fellowship and continuous engagement, with schools, as well. Teachers completing the program will earn nine credits and a intense support to develop their capacities to be better teachers and change Graduate Certificate in STEM Teaching and Leadership recognizing their leaders. The district administrators are an important part of the program. commitment and expertise in STEM fields in urban education. The nine credits Teachers are chosen from all disciplines of Science, Technology, Engineering and can also be applied to further studies in Master's programs in the area of Math across all grade levels (primary, middle and high schools) through a rigorous education.The program is expected to expand to other cities in future. selection process with defined criterion.They then go through 1 year of capacity Input Output Outcome ? Financial support ?37 Cohort 1 teachers (19 from New Jersey and 18 from ? Having completed 1 year of rigorous training, Cohort 1 ? Facilitating collaborations with institutes of higher education Greater Boston) have successfully completed their 1 year teachers are expected to be able to teach more effectively (UMass Boston, Montclair University and Mercy College) training and are working on their ‘Growth Plan Systems’ with now; and gradually involve other teachers at their respective who are anchoring the program MSU and UMass advisors. schools in knowledge sharing and innovative pedagogic ? Periodic visits and discussions with teacher trainees, faculty ?Cohort 2 teachers from New Jersey and Greater Boston; practices, as well and district education administrators and Cohort 1 from New York are currently undergoing ? The program is expected to build capacity in Science and intensive training through classroom discussions and Math teaching in inner-city schools in the selected cities over presentations, monthly Vertical Collaborative Coaching and the next few years Learning in Science meetings, periodic full-day workshops, retreats etc. ?Faculty/Staff at all three sites have come together to form a common group to hold monthly review and planning meetings ?Plans in place to recruit Cohort 3 for NJ and Boston area and Cohort 2 for NY, in Dec-Feb 2015 172 Education and Community Mission10X each leader an action learning component which they have to undertake after returning to their Institutes and submit the progress of the Action Learning with Mission10X is a not-for-profit initiative of Wipro Technologies. It started on 5th the Mission10X. Sept 2007 towards building the employability skills through engineering college teachers training. Mission10X has offered faculty empowerment training Progress so far programs to more than 26,000 teachers across 26 states in the country. In 2012, ? 27,089+ Engineering College Faculty have been trained. Mission10X redefined the way forward on addressing the important issues of the ? 363 Principals / HoDs covered in Academic Leadership (238 Principals + 125 HoDs) engineering education. The new model is designed on the SMALLER and ? More than 1,300 colleges across the 26 states are covered in Mission10X DEEPER Engagement philosophy and operationalized in terms of graduate interventions engineer attributes (GEA). ? Launched Aarambh an e-learning program for fresher faculty to learn how to teach. 560+ faculty have undergone this program. The following three essential attributes of a 'good engineer' are covered in all ? Set up 54 Mission10X Technology Learning Centers (MTLCs) across 12 states to Mission10X interventions: integrate UTLP (Unified Technology Learning Platform), a multi-disciplinary technology kit and curriculum in the colleges; Institutes invest in MTLC set up, faculty 1. Communication : Ability to communicate with others for shared training and students projects. Some projects have been recognized by NASSCOM understanding in technical, behavioral, logistical and practical concern and TI’s international conference. 2. Collaboration (Team work) : Ability to work collaboratively to explore ? 217 Faculty are trained in UTLP (Unified Technology Learning platform) possibilities to address the stated problem by drawing knowledge from diverse ? We have started Engineering Thinking workshop for the students who are part of the professionals and backgrounds Mission10X Technology Learning centers (MTLCs).We have trained 332 students on 3. Deeper Learning : Ability to learn deeply to articulate a problem statement inculcating Engineering thinking in problem solving and application development. The and analyze given data target is to cover 500 students from 50 MTLCs. The needs of important stakeholders of engineering education ecosystem such ? 5,500+ students from MTLCs addressed: 3,500 on Employability Skills and 2,000 on as principals, heads of the departments, faculty members and students are met Emerging Technologies ? About 10,000 unique integrated innovations created by Mission10Xians through a program that enhances overall learning incorporating structured ? Mission10X also piloted a faculty empowerment program for Science College engagement and effective delivery systems. teachers and trained about 320 Faculty on Enhancing Teaching Skills workshop. ? Mission10X reached out to North-Eastern States and offered a 3 day program at NIT A good number of Academic Leaders such as Principals and Heads of the Nagaland, attended by 32 faculty. Departments (HoDs) are trained on Academic Leadership Programs. We have ? VTU Belgaum did an independent research on how impactful Mission10X covered 230+ Principals and 50+ HODs so far.These Academic Leaders come to interventions have been on faculty and academia. Reveals great impact on teachers. Wipro and undergo the training for 3 days on Building a shared vision, Essentials ? Mission10X has been recognized Globally by CorpU (Corporate University exchange, of leadership, Appreciative inquiry, Delegation for better results and Decision USA) in innovation. making.Academic Leaders will have a Leadership Dialogue where they can share ? Affiliation with IITM Chennai, IIT Mumbai,Anna University,VTU, JNTU, KIIT University, their challenges and seek inputs from other leaders. The workshop leaves with VIT University etc Education and Community 173 earthian WIPRO's Sustainability education program for schools and colleges Stakeholder/beneficiary needs assessment and identification Summary and Update of 2013-14 The first step towards good education is through understanding of the ethos and The first edition of the earthian program was launched in April 2011. pedagogy followed in the institute. And good education would necessarily This program is positioned distinctly – both in structure and expected outcomes. explore the role of the institute as enablers for students to be good citizens.Any In the first phase of the program schools and colleges submit an entry on a theme lasting transformation towards integrating sustainability education would require within sustainability and the 10 best entries each from schools and colleges innovations and changes in multiple dimensions. In practice, this would mean that receive awards every year. Subsequently, through the three year Continuing an institute encourages active and participatory learning. It would require active Engagement Program (CEP) offered by our partner organisations, we aim to engagement with the management, faculty, students and wider community create and nurture spaces for engaging with teachers, faculty members, stakeholders which include governments, businesses and parents. management, students and their communities. Over 60 institutes, selected over Material Issues and selected area of intervention the last three years, are currently part of CEP. Through our extensive work in education and ecological issues over the past Each school works within a context shaped by its heritage, its current vision and fifteen years, we realised the critical need to create spaces for sustainability development plans, aspiration and physical environment. earthian’s three phase learning for future generations. Challenges and our concerns in education have continuous engagement program’s (CEP) primary objective is to devise means of been elaborated earlier. Sustainability learning requires taking a systems deeper, more meaningful engagement with earthian awardees for whole school approach integrating inputs from earth sciences, physical sciences and social whole system development. This would require change in institutional thinking sciences. While some attempts have been made in recognizing this and processes, initiate action on sustainability issues and help them build institutional frameworks have been developed, there has been little real integration on the capacity on an ongoing basis. ground (in the classroom). The earthian program is an endeavor in that direction There were two key changes introduced in 2013-14. First, we also started – to enable sustainability learning in schools and colleges. accepting entries in Hindi language from schools. Through our partnership with CEE (Center for Environment Education), this has significantly helped get participation from schools in the Hindi speaking Indian states – contributing to nearly 50% of overall submissions.The second thing we have done is to introduce a separate program for middle level school students (classes 4 to 7), earthian foundations. 174 Education and Community Input Output Outcome Development ? earthian team worked on the design and development earthian reached out to over 6000 schools and 5000 ? In this edition, over 350 schools and 200 colleges ? of the water activity booklet for schools, in colleges participated in the program. collaboration with BIOME The school teams undertook a set of structured ? The awards program served an experience sharing ? ? earthian team conceptualized and developed content activities based on the theme of water followed by a platform that saw a high level of commitment towards the sustainability essay themes for colleges well-reasoned, analytical essay. sustainability. Development College teams had to apply critical thought and write ? Teachers were recognized for the guiding role and ? essays on various themes – by looking at issues stewardship ? Partnered with CEE(Centre for Environment through the lens of different socio economic contexts Owing to our outreach initiatives, this edition saw ? Education) for mass outreach and teacher orientation and exploring interrelatedness of issues. massive participation and even winners from rural and workshops in states across India The 10 best entries from schools and colleges each ? semi-rural India, making this a highly inclusive program ? Through Employees: ‘Back to School’ program and were selected by an eminent jury with varied For children who participated, the experience has ? a Mentor programMore than 100 Wipro volunteers experience in academia, research and civil society produced some learning, action and/or behavioural for this year’s Mentor program. Mentors provide organizations. change which is well documented in their submissions regular updates on the registrations and also the The program culminated in the earthian award event ? through personalized video shoots with students and progress of the institutions in January 2014. teachers ? Through networks: PartnersCEE (Centre for Winners felicitated at a daylong flagship award event ? Environment Education) TFI fellows (Teach for in Bangalore at the Nimhans Convention Center. India), NISA (National Independent Schools Alliance) ? earthian Ambassador Program: Ambassadors register through the earthian website to promote earthian to Schools and colleges. ? Wipro Recruitment Team, Mission 10X: Reach out through Wipro’s recruitment team in India and abroad. ? Social Media: Promotion through social media like Facebook, twitter, Linkedin. Also used e-community/egroups. ? Outreach teamTwo full time callers to touch base, follow up and monitor registered teams and institution Education and Community 175 CEP (Continuous Engagement Program) Colleges sustainability internships The earthian winning schools and colleges from the earlier editions are For students from winning institutes, earthian offers a diverse and unique engaged in the Continuous Engagement Program (CEP) offered in range of sustainability related internship opportunities that can be association with Wipro’s partner ecosystem in education and sustainability. undertaken for a period of two months. These internships are offered in The core focus of this engagement is on driving sustainability thinking and partnership with our highly reputed partner organizations who are domain action through the learning process. specialists in sustainability and related areas.The internship is not only a great career move for those interested in this area but it is more importantly, a great opportunity to engage with students and expose them to interesting paradigms, schools of thought, innovations and specializations in the sustainability arena. School Workshops Biodiversity & Conservation workshopfor school faculty was conducted at the ATREE field station at BR Hills with the central theme of ‘Learning for forests – forests culture and us’.ATREE is an organization that conducts research and grassroots work with local forest communities that combine livelihoods mainly deriving out of the natural resources with conservation efforts. ATREE’s Community-based Conservation Centres provide a platform for such engagement in forest and rural locations making use of which they customized a special sustainability module for teachers from earthian winning schools. The rational of the module with ATREE was to understand the human-nature and other interconnections across water, biodiversity, agriculture, climate change etc better and also learn some research methods in the process. 176 Project Input Output Outcome ? 10 earthian winning schools and colleges ATREE Biodiversity & Conservation ? Driving sustainability thinking and action CEP from the earlier 2012-13 edition were workshop for schools through the learning process (Continuous engaged in the Continuous Engagement ? experiential learning module attended by 8 ? College Internships exposed students to Engagement Program (CEP) offered in association with teachers from 4 winning schools interesting paradigms, schools of thought, Program) Wipro’s partner ecosystem in education and College sustainability internships innovations and specializations in the sustainability ? Internships undertaken by 5 institutes with sustainability arena. ? Partnerships forged with ATREE, CSTEP, participation from 8 students. ? The school workshops helped teachers BIOME, DNVM CDP to help deliver ? Comprehensive internship papers submitted understand the human-nature and other sustainability related content and programs and displayed on the earthian website. interconnections across water, biodiversity, to schools and colleges ? Internships completed: agriculture, climate change etc better and also ? DNV: Lifecycle assessment study in learn some research methods in the process consumer goods industry ? Stronger commitment from schools and ? ATREE: Water quality issues in wetland colleges ecosystem (Vembanad Lake) ? Institutional buyin and acceptance of the ? BIOME: Fieldwork on Fluoride earthian program, reflected in the enthusiastic contamination in rural Karnataka participation ? CDP: Drivers of Sustainability Reporting in India ? CSTEP: Tech & policy related to gridconnected PV systems Future Directions In the three years of the earthian program, we have deliberately attempted different approaches – both in outreach as well as the continuing engagement program.These choices have been informed by a few key aspects: ? Striking a balance between theoretical/reflective and activity based learning ? Whole school/college approach: Find avenues for involving faculty and institute ? Making the participation process itself challenging and learning. management ? Provide multiple choices for the institute – understanding the context of ? Feedback from evaluation panel and jury members on the general drift of the different institutes and their stakeholders. entries with respect to the above aspects. In 2014-15, we plan to also extend the activity based approach to colleges through a preliminary environmental foot printing study. For schools, we plan to introduce other themes along with Water, starting with biodiversity. Education and Community 177 Wipro Cares Established in 2003, Wipro Cares focuses on key developmental issues faced by underserved and underprivileged communities. Wipro Cares was started with the idea to provide a platform to the employees to engage meaningfully with preventive and curative in nature.The project visits the identified project villages communities in Wipro’s proximate locations.This involvement could be in terms to provide medical services and the preventive aspect creates awareness on key of financial support or by volunteering at these communities on an identified issues of health and hygiene so the community can take ownership of their own issue.Wipro Cares is funded by the employees of Wipro, which is equally matched health rights. by Wipro. The domain areas Wipro Cares has chosen to work in are primary Poverty usually makes education take a back seat in an individual’s life, especially if health care, education, environment and disaster rehabilitation.Apart from having the individual is part of a migrant population. The rapid development and projects under the mentioned domain areas we have active volunteering chapters expansion of the Indian cities are witnessing migration in vast numbers from rural across the globe, as well as conduct events like various donation drives. India. The children of these migratory populations often lose out on education. Our projects in the urban cities attempts to address this gap by supporting Stakeholder/beneficiary needs assessment and identification organizations that provide bridge schools that help these children enter The communities proximate to Wipro’s centers of operation are our primary mainstream education. stakeholders. Based on the identified needs of the communities’, areas of Rapid urbanization and development is also fast degrading our environment. Our engagements are decided.The implementation of the project happens through a projects in environment engage with issues that impact the lives of communities. non-governmental organization, Wipro Cares is deeply involved in all stages of Through our social forestry project we attempt to mitigate the increasing conceptualization, execution, monitoring and assessment of the project. pollution levels along with livelihood generation for the farmers associated with Material Issues and selected area of intervention the project. Over the years we have noticed certain patterns of challenges faced by Wipro Care’s focuses on long term rehabilitation of the affected communities communities in the urban and rural contexts. after a natural disaster. The nature of rehabilitation varies depending on the individual context of the geography, culture and larger socio-economic realities of Access to primary health care continues to remain a challenge in rural India due the region.We focus on long term rehabilitation instead of immediate relief as we to remoteness of the villages, difficult geographical terrains and lack of public feel that any kind of natural calamity usually affects the social fabric of the transport.These challenges often lead to people missing on basic primary health community and it is important for us to address that gap which can have a long care, which may risk their lives. In order to bridge this gap we have primary health term, systemic and positive impact. care projects in rural or semi-rural environments.These health care projects are 178 Education and Community Summary of 2013-14 Primary Health Care: As a part of our primary health care initiatives, we Overseas Programs: In the Philippines, through the Wipro BPO team we reached out to a population of around 36 thousand people across 39 villages. mobilized funds by employees which was matched by Wipro. The money was Our Aurangabad Health Care Project added five additional villages to its project donated to an organization called GMA Kapuso Foundation, a leading and two villages were added at Amalner. organization in Philippines working on challenges faced by the marginalized communities and those who were affected by the typhoon Haiyan. Education: In Education,Wipro Cares added a project that reaches out to 500 children in Sarjapur area in Bangalore to improve their health and educational 2013-14 also saw the starting of our South Africa Chapter called Wipro Siyapha. status in collaboration with Magic Bus, India. Further, we have continued Based on local needs Wipro Siyapha initiated its activities in providing graduate supporting the education of more than 47000 children in five cities through five programs to deserving students, creating computer learning incubators for projects in Bangalore, Kolkata, Gurgaon, Hyderabad and Pune. children who have no access to computers and encouraging employees to contribute towards social causes by donating in kind and volunteering with the Social Forestry: Our social forestry project, in its third phase now, saw the community. planting of 25,000 young saplings by about 25 farmers in Villupuram district of Tamil Nadu. Over the last three years, the livelihood of more than 60 farmers has Employee Chapters: The Wipro Cares Chapters across India and few been improved through this project and more than 75000 trees have been chapters overseas continue to give back to the society through their engagement planted in rural Tamil Nadu. with social initiatives. Employees choose these initiatives based on their interests and used the Wipro Cares platform to engage people with similar interests and Disaster Rehabilitation: We have seen a number of natural calamities that passion.This year we saw our Maia office in Portugal join the list of international occurred in 2013-2014 in India, in the states of Uttarakhand and Odisha and also chapters. In 2013-14, a total of around 4000 volunteering hours were put in by 10 in other countries like the Philippines, claiming hundreds of lives and resources chapters in India and 3 overseas chapters. and wreaking havoc.As a part of Wipro Cares charter of supporting communities affected by disasters, we are working with few of the communities in these In nine locations across India,Wipro Cares organized a blood donation drive for regions to help restore their livelihoods and/or look for alternative, more thallassemics where 3696 units of blood were collected. We also continued sustainable modes of livelihood. celebrating ‘Joy of Giving @ Wipro, 2013’ across WT,WI,WBPO,WIN,WCCLG in 11 locations in India, UAE was a part of the festival as well. Under disaster rehabilitation, in the state of Uttarakhand Wipro Cares finalized a project that would work with 1000 families on exploring alternative modes of livelihood to reduce their economic dependence on tourism. In the state of Odisha, the chosen project will work towards restoring the livelihood of 250 families of the fishermen community from 15 villages of five Gram Panchayats in Polasara Block of Ganjam District.The implementation of the project would start in 2014-15. Education and Community 179 Primary Health Access to Restoration of Disaster Overseas Employee Care Services Education Enviroment Rehabilitation Engagement As a part of our primary Added a project that In Phase III of the social Finalized two new Started our South Africa In nine locations across health care innitiatives, reaches out to 500 forestry project we projects on livehood in Chapter called Wipro India, Wipro Cares we reached out to a children in Sarjapur area supported the planting of Uttarkhand and Odisha. Siyapha. Based on local organized a blood population of around 36 in Bangalore another 25,000 young needs Wipro Siyapha donation drive for thousand people across collaboration with saplings by about 25 initiated its activities in thallassemics where 39 villages through our Magic Bus, India. farmers in villupuram providing graduate 3696 units of blood were five health care projects. Continued supporting district of Tamilnadu programs to deserving collected. We also Our Aurangabad Health the education of more students, creating continued celebrating Care Project added five than 47000 children in computer learning ‘Joy of Giving @ Wipro, additional villages to its five cities. incubators for children 2013’ across WT, WI, project ares. who have no access to WBPO, WIN, WCCLG in computers. 11 locations in India, UAE was a part of the Australia donated a total festival as well. of 1.714 AUD to various charities, ranging from cancer to child protection. Voluteering activities were carried out in Philppines, Brazil, UAE. This year we saw our Mala office portugal join the list of international chapters. 180 Education and Community Brief Description of the New Projects in 2013-14 Magic Bus, Bangalore South Africa Chapter Magic Bus enables some of the world's poorest families to move out of Wipro Siyapha is our South Africa Chapter which initiated activities in poverty, through the use of a mentoring model and a sport-based 2013-14 based on the identified needs of the communities that they are curriculum, it engages children and ensures that they make the right a part of. The core areas of engagement of Wipro Siyapha are to choices so that they have a constructive journey from childhood all the provide graduate programs to deserving students, create computer way through towards better and dignified livelihoods as adults. learning incubators for children who have no access to computers, transform old shipping containers into libraries to encourage a culture The organization’s philosophy revolves around the concept of mentoring. Young people from the communities in which they 1 3 ren of reading amongst the communities and encourage employees to intervene, volunteer to work with Magic Bus.They are trained 0 ild 20 C h contribute towards social causes by donating in kind and volunteering with the community. In 2013-14: over an extended period of time to emerge as able Community Youth Leaders. They function then as 40 ? A total of 109 graduated were trained on different Mentors for children in the community, with whom topics they conduct weekly sessions based on a well¡ 23 graduates on testing technology researched, activity-based curriculum that Magic Bus ¡ 7 graduates on SAP has developed. As Mentors they become enablers of ¡ 40 graduates on Oracle, Java, Mainframe, Testing, learning not only during sessions, but also role models for 1 3 ed Six Sigma children across the community. 0 2 9t r ai n ¡ 25 participants were a part of GTP (4 weeks of overseas training) The Magic Bus project started in October 2013 and is working with 10 ¡ 7 learners on end user computing around 400 children around Sarjapur area in Bangalore. ¡ 7 learners on networking & desktop support ? Partnered with Ingula Community Centre project, outfitting a Community centre with Computers. ? Partnered with SLOVO CENTER OF EXCELLENCE A Beacon of Employee Volunteering Hope to transform shipping containers to libraries that can be publicly accessed by people of that community. In 2013-14, a total of around 4000 volunteering hours were put in by 10 ? Carried out donation drives of books, warm clothes and stationery. chapters in India and 3 overseas chapters. ? Volunteered at the Tshwane University Education and Community 181 Primary Healthcare Project Input Output Outcome Impact Sanjeevani, Aurangabad Financial Support; Timely Provided health services across 8 A total of 23025 people availed The percentage of women opting Feedback on project design, villages offering mobile clinics, of curative services from the for home deliveries has been monitoring and administrative specialized health camps and various services provided at the reducing in its 4th year as well, it process for smooth functioning Arogya banks project villages. 18194 patients dropped to 3.31% from previous of project;Visits to understand availed the benefit of the mobile years 6.5% Early registration of challenges and address gaps. clinic, 4432 villagers benefitted pregnancies increased by 5%, it from the Arogya Banks and 399 became 86.16% as compared to patients visited the specialized last year's 81.25%. The neonatal health camps. death saw a further decline to 11 from 15 per 1000 live births Narendra Foundation Monthly monitoring of activities 1. Availability of Primary Health 1. 2013-14 saw a total number of by Wipro Factory Coordinator at Care facility covering an area of 4143 people availing the curative villages as well as health clinic; 11 villages services in 11 villages. hands-on decision making on 2. Organized 10 adolescent 2. Adoescent girls got awareness governance issues at clinic; trainings about the importance of personal administrative and financial 3. Trained 2 people in each village and community hygiene to support of all activities. (totally 22) folks on First Aid prevent diseases. 3. First Aid volunteers attended to 769 minor medical issues faced by the people from the community Adhar Financial support and timely Availability of Primary Health A total of 4068 people availed monitoring and administrative Care facility covering an area of the services. support. 7 villages Rural Literacy and Health Financial support and timely 1. Availability of Primary Health 1. Around 4000 people availed Programme (RLHP) monitoring and administrative Care facility covering an area of the PHC services. support. 05 villages 2. 716 people participated in 2. Organized 20 health awareness health awareness programs and programs got an understanding of the importance of personal and community hygiene. 182 Education and Community Education Project Input Output Outcome Impact Door Step School, Pune Financial Support Totally 53 trainings conducted 500 teachers got trained 46000+ children of a migratory Parivartan majorly covering the below areas: population got benefitted with ? Understanding of the the enhanced skills of the language curriculum teachers according to state syllabus. ? Learning level for maths ? New teaching aids (Ex: Snake and Ladder game) for language development ? Inclusive education and managing children with disabilities Towards FutureBack to ? Financial Support Operational of Bridge School for ? 60 children got learning Future ? Regular reviews and drop out kids or kids not going opportunity from the bridge monitoring to school school ? 13 children got enrolled into mainstream government schools Ashray Akruti ? Financial Support Operational of School (school at 154 under privileged children ? Regular reviews and monitoring Srinagar, Hyderabad) for children with hearing disabilities availing with hearing disabilities education Magic Bus, Bangalore Financial Support Training kids on education, health, Sensitized 400+ children on gender through sports in two importance of education, gender government schools issues and health hygiene Regular reviews and monitoring Community Leadership program Trained 10 youth leaders in the for youth community to take leadership roles RockFUND, Bangalore Financial Support Funded the tution fee of 63 girl children Ananda Vidyalaya, Gurgaon Financial Support Provided learning opportunities to 125 children from Education and Community 183 Environment Project Input Output Outcome Impact TIST Financial support and timely ? A total of 25000 trees have monitoring and administrative been planted in support. Neerthiruthagaram, Mambakkam and Veeranamur at Gingee Taluk of Villupuram District.30 acres of dry land belonging to 17 farmers has been converted into productive land Future Directions Based on our engagement with urban communities new areas of engagement are also being identified.This is being done by taking active inputs from the city facility management and human resources team members who bring in a good understanding of the location context. Disability will be introduced as a new thematic area under Wipro Cares areas of work from 2014-15. Under disability Wipro Cares will be focusing on the education of children with disabilities from an underprivileged background. 184 Education and Community Digital Inclusion Wipro ASSURE Health ™ platform is a holistic solution for remote health Training the youth in rural areas for employable skills is a crucial element of any monitoring & diagnosis.This platform addresses the growing healthcare needs in rural strategy.At Wipro, we see great potential in tapping into the rural youth cardiac and fetal monitoring by providing a technology platform that enables segment for our Business Process Outsourcing (BPO) business. physicians, paramedical staff and healthcare providers to monitor and take timely We opened our first rural BPO more than three years back in 2011 in an area in action for high risk patients both in the hospital and at home using a unique rural Tamil nadu in India. The center provides training and employment for up to combination of remote monitoring and personal healthcare delivery. 200 people from the villages in that area. One of the key community programs that we started in 2013 is the participative Considering the enabling role of IT in effecting social change, we plan to start new aquifer/watershed program to enable better watershed management in the programs under the charter of ‘IT for social change’ in 2015. proximate of one of our large campus areas in Bangalore. The community portal www.groundwaters.in aims to facilitate data sharing from and for the community. More details are covered in the ‘Ecological Sustainability’ section. Similarly, SeasonWatch, is a citizen science program that engages students through a web based platform used by over 300 schools who regular submit information on the portal www.seasonwatch.in We have a separate Governments vertical that works on various e-governance projects , some recent ones in the area of enabling community access and education on using IT based platforms, being: ? Implemented Integrated Land Information system for a district in India provides land and tile information and ? Facilitates transaction for all stakeholders in local language. ? MIS/ IT systems for transparency and accountability in MNREGA (Rural Employment Guarantee Act) ? Market price information protocols/portals to help farmers secure better prices for their produce ? E-Municipality solution for enabling community participation and accountability of ULB's. Education and Community 185 Present Day, Arctic and Antarctic Poles apart , yet home to 78% of the earth’s freshwater While the term ‘polar regions’ and an atypical climate club the Antarctic and Arctic regions together, the two ends of the earth are quite different. The biggest difference is geography; the Arctic is surrounded by land while Antarctica, by an ocean. Owing to this difference, there are several other contrasting features as well: Arctic ice is much thicker than the ice at the South Pole, and its biodiversity is less endemic. But perhaps the starkest contrast of them all is age: glaciation and winter ice cover developed in the Arctic only two million years ago, as opposed to Antarctica where it did almost 14 million years ago. Advocacy and public policy 5h. Advocacy and public policy 5h Setting the context Good policies and regulations help catalyze social change and environmental ? Direct policy inputs to government protection by aligning benefits for different stakeholders. A good policy can be ? Engagement and dialog as part of industry networks differentiated from a mediocre one by how easy it is to implement and by ? Publications and Disclosures that advance and further knowledge and action whether benefits derived from it outweigh the costs of compliance. Each This section provides an overview of the work that we have been doing on policy stakeholder – Business, Government, Academia, Civil Society – brings a dynamic and advocacy in the above mentioned domains with an emphasis on the highlights and energy to the table that is unique and complementary and that adds up to for 2013-14. something greater than the mere sum of its parts. We think that industry’s role must go beyond its own boundaries and should be one that seeks to vigorously Public Policy promote advocacy of sustainability challenges. In doing so, the conscious emphasis must be on the more difficult and long term issues in preference to the easy and the short term. At this point, let us explicitly clarify that the term ‘advocacy’ is often equated with political lobbying for one’s own interests ; we do not participate in political lobbying of any kind, including but not limited to donations to political parties. Our use of the term ‘advocacy; is entirely in its sense Industry Publications and Direct Policy of advancing awareness, thought and action amongst a wide spectrum of Networks Disclosures Inputs stakeholders. The Indian business sector has been an active participant in both, policy formulation and in a more general process of debate and dialog on various challenges of development and sustainability. Our own areas of have centered ? CII Climate Change ? Carbon Disclosure ? Cproposed CSR rules around Clean Energy and Climate Change, Water, e-Waste, Education and Council Project GRI Report in Companies Bill 2012 Diversity.We work through industry platforms like CII,TERI-BCSD, Nasscom as ? CII working group on ? Public exibition on ? Education reforms CSR textbooks in india ? Water and Land well as with research partners who carry expertise in these domains.. Our ? CII working group on strategy for 12th plan public procutement sustainability advocacy is constructed on the three pillars of ? TERI-BCSD workgroup on Energy Efficiency Advocacy and public policy 189 Stakeholders and the primary issues Our primary identified stakeholders for public policy and advocacy are Illustrative examples of such organizations that we work with are: (a) Biome and Acwadam in the area of Water (b) ATREE in the area of Biodiversity (c ) ? Relevant government ministries and departments, both at the Center for Environment Education and Bangalore Little Theater in the field center and the states where we operate in ; Our interactions have been of Sustainability Education and (d) our network of nearly 30 education largely with the Ministry of Environment and Forests, Ministry of New and partners across the country Renewable Energy, the Planning Commission and Ministry of Corporate Affairs Our engagement in sustainability advocacy is summarized in the table below ? Industry networks and associations play a crucial role as catalysts for where we articulate the highlights of our engagements on multiple areas: awareness, advocacy and action on the multiple dimensions of sustainability ; by providing a common platform for industry representatives to share and exchange ideas and practices, industry association can help foster a virtuous cycle of feedback led improvement. Industry networks also lend strength and credibility in the dialogue process with government on important matters of policy and directives. The industry networks that we have been an integral part of are: Energy Climate Water, e-Waste, ? The CII-Godrej Green Business Center Change, ? The CII-ITC Center for Sustainable Development ? The CII Climate Change Council ? The Nasscom working groups on Gender Diversity ? The FICCI Sustainability Forum ? Research and Advocacy NGOs: Issues like Energy, Climate Change, Water, Biodiversity, Community Education, Health etc require strong civil society involvement as the third pillar after government policies and business engagement . NGOs and academic institutions, by combining the right blend Diversity. School CSR Sustainability of field work and academic rigor can generate valuable insights that can Education legislations, Literacy & inform the work of practitioners, policy makers and industry professionals. Education 190 Advocacy and public policy Domain Brief highlights ? Through the CII Climate Change Council, enhance awareness among industry on the role of business in mitigating climate change ; Advance advocacy and partnership with the Government of India on matters of common interest. Climate Change was also a central area of dialog and advocacy of the CII Environment Committee and the FICCI Environment Forum ? Water was a major area of collaborative focus for us in 2013-14.The three major advocacy platforms that we have been deeply involved in are Energy , ¡ Convening the Karnataka State Water Network (KSWN) along with the CII Karnataka chapter.The KSWN brings together stakeholders from government, Climate Change, academia, civil society and business to address the most pressing issues in water in Bangalore and surrounding areas Water, e-Waste ¡ As part of the Electronic City Industry Township Association (ELCITA), we have set a goal of creating a Sustainable Water Zone in E-city.A comprehensive commissioned study was completed in March 2014, basis which the action phase will start in 14-15 ¡ We initiated the next phase of the Responsible Water program that seeks to address the pressing issue of ground water in the larger Sarjapur area in Bangalore through a combination of scientific hydrogeology and committed citizen action ? We have been part of the CII Environment Committee that convened multiple task groups during 2013-14 to focus on different issues of relevance.Two of these task groups focused on e-Waste and Solid Waste ; we played a central role in the progress of the e-Waste task group’s study and recommendations ? We continued to engage in-depth with the Indian government – in particular, the Ministry of Corporate Affairs – on the CSR provisions in the Companies Bill 2013 amendments. Corporate Social ? Our primary position on the CSR provisions of Bill continues to be that CSR as a mandate may not be the most effective means of getting industry to engage on Responsibility (CSR) larger social issues. Second, we believe that business sustainability plays a critical role in moving the needle forward and conceptually, business responsibility and social responsibility are extensions of each other .Third, as a global corporate citizen, we think that CSR must include community programs of all the countries that a company operates in and should not be restricted to India ? The topic of ‘Textbooks’ was taken up as an area of advocacy in 2013-14 and an exhibition on ‘Textbooks in Colonial India’ was held as a beginning.We plan to follow this up in 2014-15 with an online archive on textbooks and public events School Education ? Our 14th Partners’ Forum deliberated on the issue of ‘Textbooks and Education’ and was attended by over 70 members from civil society organizations, academic institutions and education department of various state governments ? Our projects received regular coverage in English and vernacular media; such as SeasonWatch (Malayalam) and GoodBooks (English) ? Through earthian,Wipro’s flagship program in sustainability education for schools and colleges, our goal is to act as catalysts for wider sustainability advocacy among the young in India’s schools and colleges Sustainability Literacy ? With the idea of using theater in education as the platform for sustainability learning, we have in place a long term partnership with Bangalore Little Theater and Education ? Partnership with CEE (Center for Environment Education) to offer the program in Hindi in four Hindi speaking states. ? Provided internships for college students with partner organizations on sustainability. During 2013-14, we also participated in industry research and advocacy on key Diversity and Inclusion themes. We continued our engagement with external Diversity stakeholders where we hold advisory board / core committee positions, namely with Catalyst, NASSCOM and CII. ? Wipro is part of the core CII committee for employment of people with disabilities and also part of the NASSCOM working group on gender inclusion ? Catalyst is a leading nonprofit organization which works on expanding opportunities for women and business.Wipro’s CEO is chair of Catalyst India Advisory Board. Advocacy and public policy 191 Spotlight: Wipro and regulatory compliance As a responsible corporate citizen and driven by our core values of integrity and ethics, Wipro has an exemplary record of compliance with government regulations in all the countries that it operates in.The visual below illustrates the common regulations and directives that Wipro complies with in the financial, labor and environmental domains across the geographies we operate in. ns Taxation ( Payment of Excise duties, Sales tax, Customs duties, Corporate Income Tax) ? la tio Mandatory publishing of quarterly and annual results ( both U.S. GAAP and Indian GAAP) ? u eg Compliance with SEBI guidelines for companies listed on Indian stock exchanges and with SEC rules ? lr ons ci a lati for companies listed on U.S. stock exchanges an gu Fi n re ions Compliance with requirements of the Sarbannes Oxley Act ? r bo u lat La eg talr Maximum number of working hours per week ? Environmen Minimum number of days for casual and sick leave ? Minimum Wages Act ? Shops and Establishments act ? Freedom to form trade unions and employee associations ? Laws in EU and American countries that govern data privacy on employee information ? Environment Impact Assessment (EIA) prior to the start of a new facility ? Clearance from state Pollution Control Board (PCB) on measures for water treatment, diesel ? storage, handling and disposal of hazardous substances etc ; This is required prior to the commencement of a new facility and subsequently on an annual basis Compliance with e-Waste rules 2012 ? Our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics (COBCE) is an important reference transparency on government engagements. There were no instances of anchor that determines our compliance with key regulations pertaining to labor environmental fines paid by us during the reporting year. and human rights, anti bribery and anti corruption, supplier responsibility and 192 Advocacy and public policy Code of business conduct with the government As with other business partners, our code of business conduct and ethics governs and management models that involve a wide range of stakeholders (ii) Providing our engagement with governments and regulatory authorities.The Code covers carefully crafted inputs policies on government policy and (iii) Increasing Wipro’s policy on lobbying and dealing with Government contracts.We do not as awareness and fostering exchange through participation as speakers in a variety a matter of stated policy, contribute to political parties in either cash or kind in of forums, events and workshops the right direction. Our approach will be to any of the geographies that we operate in. continue to work with our network of academic and civil society partners as well as with industry networks.We will strengthen and expand our partner network Plans and direction forward: as appropriate .The areas of focus for 2014-15 will be Our sustainability advocacy and outreach will continue to be based on the three important pillars of (i) Promoting decentralized, community-centric governance Energy and Climate Change Water E-Waste School Education, Sustainability Education and Education for Children with Disability Gender Diversity Biodiversity Advocacy and public policy 193 Assurance statement This report has been assured at a moderate level of scrutiny using our protocols for: ? evaluation of content veracity; ? AA1000 Assurance Standard (2008) Type 2 evaluation of the report content ASSURANCE STATEMENT and supporting management systems against the AA1000 Accountability SGS INDIA PRIVATE LIMITED’S REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY ACTIVITIES Principles (2008); IN THE WIPRO LIMITED SUSTAINABILITY REPORT FORYEAR 2013 14 ? evaluation of the report against the Global Reporting Initiative Sustainability NATURE AND SCOPE OF THE ASSURANCE/VERIFICATION Reporting Guidelines (G3.1 2011); SGS India Private Limited was engaged by Wipro Limited to conduct an The assurance performed comprised the review, evaluation of and providing independent assurance of the Wipro Limited Sustainability Report 2013 14.The comments on the reporting processes as well as evaluating the accuracy of the scope of the assurance, based on the SGS Sustainability Report Assurance report content and indicators.This included the following activities: methodology, included the text, and Year 2013 14 data in accompanying tables, ? Desk study to identify material issues in relation to the organisation, its sector, contained in this report. location and operations, and stakeholders; The information in the Sustainability Report 2013 14 of Wipro Limited and its ? Evaluation of the Wipro Sustainability Report 2013 14 against the presentation are the responsibility of the directors, governing body and the requirements of the GRI G3.1 and Type 2 moderate level of assurance in management of Wipro Limited. SGS India Private Limited has not been involved in accordance with the requirements of AA1000 (2008); the preparation of any of the material included in the Wipro Sustainability Report ? Planning of site visits and preparation of bespoke checklists for evaluation of 201314. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the text, data, graphs and data collection processes and accuracy of reported data; statements within the scope of verification with the intention to inform all Wipro Limited’s stakeholders. ? Interviews carries out at Wipro Limited Corporate Office and at the various sites, including Mysore , Hydrabad Manikonda Ph1, Chennai CDC 5,New The SGS protocols are based upon internationally recognized guidance, including Delhi Sarita Vihar BPO and Mumbai Kensington (BPO) sites to complete the Principles contained within the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) the evaluation of data collection processes and accuracy of reported Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (2013) for accuracy and reliability and the information and data, including: guidance on levels of assurance contained within the AA1000 series of standards and guidance for Assurance Providers. ? Interviews with relevant personnel, ? Document and record inspection, ? Confirmation of information sources. ? Financial data drawn directly from independently audited financial accounts has not been checked back to source as part of this assurance process. Assurance Statement 195 STATEMENT OF INDEPENDENCE AND COMPETENCE A A 1 0 0 0 AC C O U N TA B I L I T Y P R I N C I P L E S ( 2 0 0 8 ) The SGS Group of companies is the world leader in inspection, testing and CONCLUSIONS, FINDINGS AND RECOMMENDATIONS verification, operating in more than 140 countries and providing services Inclusivity including management systems and service certification; quality, environmental, social and ethical auditing and training; environmental, social and sustainability Wipro Limited is committed to being accountable to its stakeholders and to report assurance. SGS India Private Limited affirms our independence from integrating inclusivity into its strategic and management approach. Interviews at Wipro Limited, being free from bias and conflicts of interest with the various stakeholders and at corporate level demonstrated an awareness and organization, its subsidiaries and stakeholders. understanding of the obligations of the organization to its stakeholders as well as the importance of stakeholders in realizing Wipro Limited’s goals and values. The assurance team was assembled based on their knowledge, experience and qualifications for this assignment, and comprised auditors registered with Quality Materiality Management System (QMS), Environment Management System (EMS), Wipro Limited has established the materiality process in determining the content Occupational Health & Safety (OHSAS), Social Accountability (SA) and having of the report identical to material issues. The outcomes of the process are rich experience and relevant qualification in the areas of Sustainability Reporting represented in the two matrices one for Social and Human Rights and the other AssuranceVerification andValidation Services. for Ecological & Economic factors. The materiality of a particular sustainability VERIFICATION/ ASSURANCE OPINION dimension is based on the combination of two criteria The Stakeholders’ interest in the issue and its Relevance / Priority to Wipro Limited. The process On the basis of the methodology described and the verification work performed, evaluates material issues with balanced focuses on risks and opportunities we are satisfied that the information and data contained within Wipro together with the appropriate prioritization. Sustainability Report 2013 14 verified is accurate, reliable and provides a fair and balanced representation of Wipro Limited sustainability activities in Year 2013 Responsiveness 14. Some statements and data within the scope were not assured due to lack of Wipro Limited has established a framework for addressing its key sustainability accessible records during the timescale allowed for assurance, and these are issues, embracing a number of mechanisms and functions described in the report. clearly marked throughout the text. Together, these enable responses to be developed and implemented. The assurance team is of the opinion that the Report can be used by the Reporting Organization’s Stakeholders. We believe that the organization has chosen an appropriate level of assurance for this stage in their reporting. 196 Assurance Statement GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE REPORTING GUIDELINES (G3.1 2011) Positive Developments CONCLUSIONS, FINDINGS AND RECOMMENDATIONS We would like to mention some positive developments made in the following In our opinion the Wipro Limited Sustainability Report 2013 2014 fulfills the areas: content and quality criteria for GRI G3.1 Application Level A+ ? Starting this year there are disclosures on all 10 of the applicable Scope 3 Principles categories Overall GRI Principles for Report Content and Quality are well established.The ? Next steps regarding supplier engagement program and building an effective level of accuracy of sustainability performance information of the report was ? management system to continuously evaluate sustainability have been defined found to be acceptable. Data trails selected were generally identifiable and ? The following are few of the opportunities for improvement identified for the traceable, and the personnel responsible were able to reliably demonstrate the purpose of encouraging continual improvement: origin(s) and interpretation of data. ? Considering the large amount of data on various parameters being compiled Standard Disclosures from various locations covering broad scope of reporting, periodic The sustainability performance disclosures are appropriately presented within reconciliation between location and corporate data may be undertaken to the report. ensure ongoing correctness of compiled data. Indicators Formal Impact assessment may be carried out for key community development projects taken under Wipro Care which will help in reporting sustained Disclosures on Management Approach and core performance indicator for all effectiveness of the projects undertaken. categories and core indicators are broadly available and appropriately reflect Signed: environmental, social and economic performance achieved during the period. Overall, the information presented within the report is fair and For and on behalf of SGS India Private Limited accurate.The report was also found to be a reliable account of Wipro Limited sustainability performance during the reporting period. Nilesh Jadhav SGS Systems & Services Certification Director Certification Services Mumbai, India March 2015 WWW.SGS.COM Assurance Statement 197 Index and glossary are available at http://wiprosustainabilityreport.com/ WIPRO LIMITED, DODDAKANNELLI, SARJAPUR ROAD, BANGALORE 560 035, INDIA TEL : +91 (80) 2844 0011, FAX : +91 (80) 2844 0256 WWW.WIPRO.COM
