Canon EMEA UN Global Compact Communication on Progress Index We became a signatory to the Global Compact in 2014. Our President & CEO reaffirmed our commitment to the UNGC and its ten principles in our 2014 sustainability report. This is our first Communication on Progress, summarising the actions the company has taken or plans to take to implement the UNGC’s Ten Principles and providing links to the more detailed information and outcomes provided in our 2014 sustainability report and on our website. Principle Canon EMEA's response Sustainability GRI report indicator reference Human rights 1. Businesses We support and uphold human rights Business section Human should support across our business. > Human rights Rights DMA and respect the and labour The Canon Group Code of Conduct protection of includes human rights criteria such as internationally prevention of harassment and proclaimed discrimination, ensuring safe and fair human rights. labour conditions, and the strict prohibition of bribery and corruption. 2. Businesses Our supplier code of conduct specifies Business section HR1, HR2, should make sure the ethical principles we ask our > Supplier Code HR11 that they are not suppliers to respect. It is used in all new of Conduct, and complicit in tenders and contract renewals and is Human rights human rights available in more than 15 languages. and labour abuses. Canon is working with business and Canon Inc. industry partners, aiming to avoid the approach to use of conflict minerals. conflict minerals Labour 3. Businesses Our EMEA employees are free to Business section HR5 should uphold the associate with labour organisations, > Human rights freedom of which may vary from works councils to and labour association and trades unions. the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. 4. Businesses Canon Inc.’s website includes a Business section HR7 should uphold the statement on eliminating child and > Human rights elimination of all forced labour which we uphold. and labour forms of forced We have contracts to uphold Canon Inc.’s and compulsory employees' rights and avoid forced, statement on labour. compulsory and child labour. We have Concern for clauses in procurement contracts and in Human Rights the supplier code of conduct to ensure forced, compulsory and child labour is not present in our supply chain. Canon EMEA – UN Global Compact Communication on Progress Index 1 of 3 Principle Canon EMEA's response Sustainability GRI report indicator reference 5. Businesses Canon Inc.’s website includes a Business section HR6 should uphold the statement on eliminating child and > Human rights effective abolition forced labour which we uphold and labour of child labour. We have contracts to avoid forced, Canon Inc.’s compulsory and child labour. We have statement on clauses in procurement contracts and in Concern for the supplier code of conduct to ensure Human Rights forced, compulsory and child labour is not present in our supply chain. 6. Businesses The Canon Group Code of Conduct Business section HR4 should uphold the includes human rights criteria such as > Human rights elimination of prevention of harassment and and labour discrimination in discrimination. Society section respect of Diversity and inclusion training is > Our people employment and available for all EMEA employees. We occupation. Web: Society > also monitor diversity indicators as part Workplace > of our recruitment processes. Workplace practices Environment 7. Businesses Our ISO 14001 certified environmental Environment Environment should support a management system covers more than section DMA precautionary 800 sites globally, including 118 sites in approach to 25 countries in EMEA. This supports our environmental produce-use-recycle lifecycle approach challenges. for all our products. We have targeted key areas for ongoing improvement based on our assessment of our material impacts (see Achievements and targets). Our Environmental Charter is available on the web. 8. Businesses We include environmental messages as Environment EN5, EN6, should undertake relevant in customer communications section > EN18, PR3 initiatives to and marketing materials, and help Sustainable promote greater selected customers evaluate the products environmental potential reduction in their footprint by Supporting our responsibility. using our services and devices. customers We also pursue a programme of section sustainable business, in which the Business section environment has always been a key > Governance component. This includes incorporating environmental improvements into our Environment operations e.g. embedding sustainability section > criteria in our lease financing contracts Operations and in our new warehousing facilities in Rotterdam. Canon EMEA – UN Global Compact Communication on Progress Index 2 of 3 Principle Canon EMEA's response Sustainability GRI report indicator reference 9. Businesses We offer products, solutions and Environment EN26 should encourage services that help customers reduce raw section > the development materials, paper and energy use, and Sustainable and diffusion of lower their carbon footprint. We extend products environmentally product and resource life through Supporting our friendly recycling and remanufacturing customers technologies. programmes for products and section components; using remote servicing; and promoting the circular economy. Canon is a founding signatory to EuroVAprint, a voluntary agreement to improve the environmental performance of imaging equipment. Anti-corruption 10. Businesses We have mandatory anti-corruption and Business section HR3, SO3 should work bribery training for all employees. 85% > Compliance against of our employees across EMEA have training corruption in all received anti-corruption and bribery its forms, training. Standard training is online, and including is supplemented by face-to-face training extortion and in higher risk areas. bribery. Canon EMEA – UN Global Compact Communication on Progress Index 3 of 3
