UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015 MESSAGE FROM THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER GSOL Energy A/S joined the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) in 2013, and it reflects our desire to share the responsibility to participate in solving global challenges in areas such as human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. The UNGC’s principles for sustainability are an important point of reference for all the goals and values already set and followed at GSOL Energy, and we focus on the importance of responsible business practices when we adapt our business to meet the market’s needs. At GSOL Energy, corporate responsibility is at the heart of the company’s mission to develop and provide innovative solar energy products and services that save and improve lives around the world. Because we feel tremendous responsibility for helping to reduce the numbers of people in the world living without electricity, our mission inspires us to optimize our performance at all time. By focusing our efforts in rural areas, in cooperation with NGO organizations, where there is an urgent demand for electrification, GSOL Energy intends to be one of the leading supplier of quality solar energy solutions. We will continue to apply cutting-edge green solar technology all around the world. Corporate responsibility is embedded in all we do at GSOL Energy. It guides our behaviors and actions as we strive to address some of the world’s greatest energy challenges while growing our business in a sustainable way. As my GSOL Energy colleagues and I travel around the world and met with a wide range of NGO organizations and field officers, we have chosen 2 areas that should have our future focus. That is why we in 2014/2015 launched a development program for: • Small stand alone solar systems & Solar personal items: There are significant advances in solar technology and prices are going down. This means the possibility to electrify areas that was not financial possible before. We will provide access to solar charging technology making it possible for more children to having telephones and computers for educational use. Supply solar light for a higher life quality and the simple possible to study after darkness. The use of solar light technology can lower the numbers of fuel based house lights and thereby we can lower the negative health impact from these fuel based products. • The world is facing more natural disasters due to global warning. GSOL Energy has started to develop highly mobile solar stations for using in areas that has been hit by natural disasters like hurricanes, tsunamis and earthquakes. The mobile energy solutions will also be developed in a way that they can be used in refugee camps around the world. As we focus on the future, GSOL Energy believes it is important to have the right strategy as well as the right scientific and technical capabilities so we can continue to save, empower and electrify lives throughout the world. At the same time, we realize that the fundamentals of good corporate governance, ethical business practices and transparency have never been more important. For that reason, since 2013 GSOL Energy has accepted the principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of human rights, labor standards, environmental protection and anticorruption. These principles continue to guide our corporate responsibility strategy and objectives. Those of us who work at GSOL Energy believe it is a great privilege and a great responsibility, because we have the technology to improve the lives of millions. We share a longstanding, profound and unwavering commitment to our mission, to our values, and to upholding the highest standards of ethics and integrity in all we do. On behalf of GSOL Energy’s employees, I reaffirm our commitment to compliance with the 10 Principles of the Global Compact, which will continue to be an important reference for GSOL Energy in our work at maintaining responsible business practices. I would like to invite you to read our Communication on Progress 2015, explaining our approach to issues in focus, our progress and our way ahead and to view the GSOL Energy website www.gsolenergy.com and the Annual Report. Mads Halgaard Madsen, CEO GSOL Energy A/S COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015 HUMAN RIGHTS 1. Business should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. The protection of internationally proclaimed human rights is included in GSOL Energy's business policy and principles and fully integrated in our company management system. Since 2012, as part of the GSOL Energy implementing of a now code of conduct, GSOL Energy has conducted a monitoring process for non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning health and safety, labour practices, product, standards, environmental regulatory compliance and anticorruption. 2. Business should ensure that they are not complicit in human right abuses. We began monitoring our compliance against human rights abuses in 2012. In the period from then until December 2014, GSOL Energy have recorded no incident of human rights abuses either at GSOL Energy or at any partners or subcontractors. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015 LABOUR RIGHTS 3. Business should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. GSOL Energy upholds such a policy for its employees. The policy is included in GSOL Energy's business policy and principles and integrated in our company management system. 4. Business should support the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. All employees have individual contracts stating terms and conditions of service and the notice of leave. Our employment policies forbid the use of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. Our policies for the selection of sub-contractors and suppliers similarly forbid the use of forced or compulsory labour in our supply chain. The policy is included in GSOL Energy's business policy and principles and integrated in our company management system. 5.Business should support the effective abolition of child labour. GSOL Energy fully supports the policy of abolishing child labour. The policy is included in GSOL Energy's business policy and principles and integrated in our company management system. 6. Business should support the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. GSOL Energy has implemented a recruitment policy securing equal employment opportunities based solely upon an evaluation of relevant qualifications. Our policies for ensuring equality of opportunity expressly commit us to working towards elimination of all forms of discrimination based on race, colour, sex, age, religion, political opinion or social origin. The policy is included in GSOL Energy's business policy and principles and integrated in our company management system. We began monitoring our compliance against human rights performance in 2012. In the period from then until December 2014, GSOL Energy recorded no antidiscriminatory code of practice. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015 ENVIRONMENT 7. Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. GSOL Energy see it as our corporate responsibility and business role to advise on how to develop green energy solutions where we live and work in ways that are responsible, both now and into the future, using increasingly scarce natural resources wisely. This is why our focus segments are: Solar energy, Sustainable Buildings and recycling of renewable products after being used Operations: since 2013 GSOL makes a yearly, environmental challenge and what can we do, report. 8. Business should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. GSOL Energy undertakes a number of initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Every project we undertake has an impact on the environment. That is why GSOL Energy's purpose is to enable our clients to make informed decisions and wellconsidered investments as they invest in green energy solutions. Growing urbanisation and population and climate change have generated a new set of issues for our clients in both the public and private sectors. Issues like how to guarantee the supply of energy. How to protect land against flooding. How to meet the ever increasing demand for mobility. How to improve the buildings we all live and work in. And how to deal with tomorrow’s energy challenges. GSOL Energy’s areas of expertise are key in helping clients create smart and practical solutions for these issues in proving green energy solutions. Together, we make a lasting contribution to a changing world. As corporate responsibility is of great value in the execution our projects, we also have to take up these responsibilities in our own operations. We are committed to developing and applying new technologies and processes that have great value in executing our projects in a sustainable way. These involves best possible planning in transport and recycling of green energy solutions. Most of GSOL Energy's suppliers are ISO-9001 certified and most suppliers are certified according to ISO-14001. These management standards help us to comply with (environmental) legislation, improve the quality of environmental performance in our projects and to identify potential risks. 9. Business should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. GSOL Energy contributes positively to some of the world’s most pressing environmental problems through its innovative solar solutions and technologies. We solve problems, design and engineer green energy solutions and supervise or monitor their implementation – all from a sustainable perspective. GSOL Energy is making a widespread effort to encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Our responsibility to the use and development of environmentally friendly technologies is included in GSOL Energy's business policy and principles and is integrated in our company management system. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015 ANTI-CORRUPTION 10. Business should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Anti corruption is an important part of GSOL Energy's business policy and principles and is integrated in our integrity management system. We began monitoring our compliance against corruption 2012. In the period from then until December 2014, we have recorded no incident of corruption either at GSOL Energy or at any partners or subcontractors. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015 • To ensure the exact right solar PV system for our customers, we GSOL ENERGY recommend having a site inspection, where we have an in-depth IN BRIEF Site inspection discussion about objectives for the solar system, what product possibilities will fit requirements, placement of solar panels, access to battery banks etc. GSOL Energy has over 20 years of experience in sustainable energy and specializing in solar power. • Our experienced and certified technicians will help to size and design a Our core competencies are advising and supplying Sizing & tailor-made system as per your requirements. We will provide clear configuration drawings of our solutions and provide power calculations showing exact high quality PV systems like roof-mounted, groundcapacity. mounted and building-integrated PV systems, offgrid hybrid systems and Solar Containers. GSOL can solve all kinds of work that deals with design, • Our in-house shipping department will handle all orders from dispatch of shipments from Denmark to any destination worldwide. As most installation and servicing of PV systems. Shipping & logistics systems are quite heavy, most deliveries take place in either 20’ or 40’ containers, but we also have the possibility to airlift equipment for rapid deliveries, e.g. in case of emergency. GSOL Energy is a part of United Nations Global Compact which reflects our desire to share the responsibility to participate in solving global • GSOL Energy’s technicians will be onsite to ensure fast and correct challenges in areas such as human rights, labour, Installation & installation and commissioning of the delivered systems. Often systems environment and anti-corruption. commissioning are installed within a week and will immediately start to produce CO2 neutral power. GSOL Energy is a member of the Danish Solar Association which is the trade association for companies that specialized in PV systems and • As a unique feature we can offer to do remote monitoring of the Remote system installed systems, providing our customers with the security and related technologies. easiness that the installed solar PV systems are running as efficiently as monitoring planned. We take great pride in supporting our customers from configuration phase through installation & commissioning to the after sales support. • Hence the far and often remote locations of our delivered systems, we are dedicated to continuously supporting our customers with after sales After sales support support, whether it is replacement of faulty items, new spare parts or up-grade of existing system. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015
