Nolato Sustainability Report 2014 1 / 32 View from the Bjäre Peninsula, a stone’s throw from Nolato’s headquarters in Torekov, southern Sweden. Our Sustainability Work 2014 Nolato Sustainability Report 2014 2 / 32 Contents The CEO’s introduction .................................................................................................................3 The Nolato Group in brief ..............................................................................................................4 2014 in brief ................................................................................................................................6 Sustainability contributes to profitable business ............................................................................7 Group-wide targets .................................................................................................................... 11 Environmental responsibility .......................................................................................................12 Social responsibility ...................................................................................................................16 Business partners and other stakeholders...................................................................................20 Financial responsibility ...............................................................................................................22 Risks relating to sustainable development ...................................................................................23 A busy year ................................................................................................................................24 About our sustainability report ....................................................................................................25 GRI reporting .............................................................................................................................26 COP reporting for UN Global Compact .........................................................................................30 Definitions and glossary .............................................................................................................31 Nolato AB (publ), 269 04 Torekov, Sweden, +46 431-442290, www.nolato.com, info@nolato.com Nolato Sustainability Report 2014 3 / 32 Sustainable development in everything we do How do you view Nolato’s In addition, we have updated our corporate financial performance in 2014? values document The Nolato Spirit, which Our financial performance has been good includes our Basic Principles and our Code for a number of years, and although sales of Conduct, which are areas that reflect the decreased slightly compared with the excepGroup’s commitment to the UN Global tionally strong 2013, they are much higher Compact. We have also further developed than previous years. I think the fact that we our reporting of sustainability work in improved profit despite lower sales is testaaccordance with GRI G4 standards. ment to the great work of our employees in constantly optimising our offering and the What are Nolato’s goals for 2015? business. Cash flow was lower as a result Growth and good profitability! We aim to of higher investments and working capital achieve this by continuing our goal-oriented requirements, but despite this we have a very work of recent years together with close strong balance sheet, which gives us significooperation with customers, lean manufaccant scope for the future. turing and strong technical expertise. Nolato Medical is focussing on a greater proportion How do you view of system projects, which comprise developcorporate responsibility? ment of integrated complex products and “2014 was the best year yet in Nolato’s Nolato has a long tradition of responsible high-volume production. Nolato Telecom almost 80-year history, with operating business practice. It’s part of our company’s is continuing to develop technologies that profit of SEK 470 million. This achievespirit to be a good employer and corporate are attractive to our customers in the mobile ment is based on a successful and longcitizen, and to take responsibility for what phone sector, and is also endeavouring to term strategy that has contributed to good we do and always apply sound business ethexpand its operations into related customer performance by all three business areas, ics. We believe that a future-oriented, responsegments. Our EMC business is also being and our own EMC operations have also sible approach is not only necessary from a given the opportunity to continue its strong shown strong growth with healthy profitsustainability perspective, but also creates growth. Nolato Industrial is increasing its ability,” says President and CEO Hans opportunities and business benefits. Espemarketing to selected key customers, with Portat. cially when combined with our strong focus the aim of taking further market share. on efficiency and professionalism. We are also continuing to develop our strong corporate culture that has made What corporate responsibility action Nolato into such a successful company. This have you taken over the past year? work includes achieving our Group-wide We’ve taken a number of specific sustainsustainability goals. Greater energy efficienability measures, both large and small. For cy, a reduced carbon footprint, a healthy and example, in Beijing we installed a cuttingsafe work environment and sound ethical edge facility for reducing atmospheric solprinciples benefit our company, our employvent emissions from the painting of mobile ees and society as a whole. phone components. Our work on this was reported on by Chinese television. Another Torekov, March 2015 example is that we now have a total of five factories in Hungary, Romania and China that are certified to the OHSAS 18001 health and safety system. A third example is Hans Porat, President and CEO our social project, Building Hope Together, which we are running with a school in Daxiwan, China. Nolato Sustainability Report 2014 4 / 32 The Nolato Group in brief Sales per market Development, production & sales North America etc. 330 SEKm Sales & technology Sweden 872 SEKm Other Nordic countries 177 SEKm Asia 1,633 SEKm Other European countries 1,222 SEKm Sales Our operations Our values SEKm Nolato is a Swedish publicly listed group with Nolato has a long tradition of responsible 5,000 operations in Europe, Asia and North business, and one of our Basic Principles is 4,000 America. We develop and manufacture that efficient business operations must be 3,000 products in plastic, silicone and TPE for combined with ethics, responsibility and 2,000 leading, often global, companies within consideration of the environment. These 1,000 three areas: areas are therefore natural and integral 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 medical devices (such as inhalers, insulin aspects of our business activities. pens and catheter balloons) We are signatories to the UN Global Operating profit (EBITA) Compact and report sustainability work in SEKm telecom components (subsystems for accordance with GRI. 500 mobile phones, often with significant 400 cosmetic content, as well as methods Our employees 300 and materials for shielding electronics) The average number of employees in 2014 200 100 products for industrial companies (such was 8,020. Of these, 90% were outside 0 as packaging, hygiene products and Sweden. 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 automotive components). Our shares Earnings per share Our offering Nolato was listed on the stock exchange in SEK Nolato’s customer offering comprises most 1984. Its B shares are listed on the NASDAQ 15 12 technologies in the field of polymers and Stockholm Exchange in the Mid Cap seg9 covers the entire value chain through to ment, where they are included in the 6 product delivery. Industrials sector. 3 We endeavour to develop close, long-term 0 and constructive collaboration with cusOur history 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 tomers and we are often chosen for the Nolato was founded in 1938 as Nordiska production of complex products with Latexfabriken i Torekov AB, with the Cash flow after investments stringent technical demands. trademark Nolato, which has been the SEKm 400 Our wide-ranging capabilities support company name since 1982. our customers’ product development. Our Today’s global Group is the result of 300 involvement in customers’ development work organic growth and acquisitions. The head 200 at an early stage allows us to optimise product office is still in Torekov, Sweden, but the 100 design to help achieve a better end-product. majority of operations are now based abroad. 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Excluding acquisitions and disposals Nolato Sustainability Report 2014 5 / 32 The Nolato Group in brief 5 Nolato Medical Nolato Telecom Nolato Industrial Financial highlights: 2014 2013 Financial highlights: 2014 2013 Financial highlights: 2014 2013 Sales SEKm 1,333 1,274 Sales SEKm 1,799 2,079 Sales SEKm 1,106 1,170 Operating profit EBITA SEKm 176 165 Operating profit EBITA SEKm 199 166 Operating profit EBITA SEKm 118 119 EBITA margin % 13.2 13.0 EBITA margin % 11.1 8.0 EBITA margin % 10.7 10.2 Average number of employees 1,031 988 Average number of employees 6,297 7,611 Average number of employees 687 753 Customer offering: Customer offering: Customer offering: Development and manufacturing of complex prodDesign, development and manufacturing of adDevelopment and manufacturing of components uct systems and components within medical techvanced components and subsystems for mobile and product systems for customers in the automonology and advanced packaging solutions for phones, and products and systems for shielding tive industry, hygiene, packaging, gardening/forpharmaceuticals and dietary supplements. electronics (EMC). estry, furniture and other selected industrial segments. Geographic information: Geographic information: Development, production and sales in Sweden, UK, Development, production and sales in Sweden, Geographic information: Hungary, USA and China. Sales offices in Denmark, China and Malaysia. Sales and technology offices Development, production and sales in Sweden, Germany, France and the Czech Republic. in the United States and India. Hungary, Romania and China. Success factors: Success factors: Success factors: Medical understanding, broad technological offering, Creative development work, cutting-edge technolTechnology, project management and productivity. development expertise of robust product solutions, ogy, advanced project management, fast producglobal production and robust quality. Customers include: tion start-ups and high productivity. Atlas Copco, Brose, Husqvarna, Jaguar/Land Rover, Customers include: Customers include: MCT Brattberg, Sanitec, SKF, Volvo, Volvo Cars. Becton Dickinson, Boston Scientific, Coloplast, Novo Ericsson, Huawei, Microsoft (Nokia), Motorola Nordisk, Pfizer, Roche, Sanofi, Takeda. Volatility: Solutions, Sony Mobile, Xioami, ZTE. Medium. Follows the Northern European industrial Volatility: Volatility: business cycle. Low. Steady market growth. High. Project-based operations. Long-term growth potential. Product life cycle: Product life cycle: Medium/Long. Product life cycle: Short. Long. 32% 36% 42% 40% 26% 24% Share of the Group’s Share of the Group’s Share of the Group’s Share of the Group’s Share of the Group’s Share of the Group’s net sales operating profit (EBITA) net sales operating profit (EBITA) net sales operating profit (EBITA) Nolato Sustainability Report 2014 6 / 32 2014 in brief Financial performance Further work Health and safety activities, including the Nolato sales for 2014 amounted to SEK In 2015, our continued work will include the introduction of the OHSAS 18001 health 4,234 million (4,522). For the third succesfollowing: and safety standard at a number of units. sive year, operating profit (EBITA) was the Initial measures to adapt environmental best in the company’s almost 80-year history, Information about the updated version of management systems in accordance with amounting to SEK 470 million (427), corThe Nolato Spirit, which provides guidethe new version of the ISO 14001:2015 responding to an operating margin of 11.1 lines on our core business principles, valenvironmental management standard. percent (9.4). All business areas achieved ues and Code of Conduct. Continued social engagement and social a double-digit operating margin (EBITA), Further measures that help improve energy responsibility, including projects such as which contributed to the healthy profit. efficiency, cut carbon emissions and reduce the Employee Care Programme and BuildEarnings per share was SEK 13.84 (11.94) waste. ing Hope Together in China. and the equity/assets ratio improved further to 54 percent (52). Sustainable development The Group undertook numerous activities Key sustainability figures 2014 2013 2012 relating to sustainable development durFinancial responsibility ing the year. The driving forces in this work included long-term goals, commitment to Sales, SEK million 4,234 4,522 3,874 the Global Compact, reporting in accordOperating profit (EBITA), SEK million 470 427 303 ance with the Global Reporting Initiative, EBITA margin, % 11.1 9.4 7.8 and the requirements and views expressed by Average number of employees 8,020 9,357 8,421 the Group’s stakeholders. We saw increased Environmental responsibility interest among customers in ensuring responBreach of environmental and occupational environment legislation, 0 0 0 sible business practice in the value chain, number of cases which is an approach that corresponds with Energy consumption, GWh/SEK million sales 0.038 0.036 0.043 how we view these issues in our value chain. Water consumption, m3/SEK million sales 37.8 35.2 43.7 In 2014, we continued to work on issues relating to energy and resource usage, cliEmissions of greenhouse gases, tonne CO2/SEK million sales 14.7 13.7 15.5 mate impact, work environment, social Waste, tonnes/SEK million sales 1.0 1.1 1.4 engagement and business ethics. As shown Certified environmental management system,% of total no. of plants 100 100 86 in the table to the right, development has Social responsibility mainly been positive. But work relating to sustainable development constantly generOccupational accidents, (cases of ≥1 day’s absence; 43 34 64 cases per employee) (0.005) (0.004) (0.007) ates new challenges and there is always more we can do. Female employees, % 52 57 62 Training on Nolato’s Basic Principles and Code of Conduct, >90 >90 >90 % of employees Application of ethical & humane principles and number of registered 0 0 0 breaches of corruption rules Evaluation of subcontractors, number of assessments conducted 161 106 140 (questionnaires, audits) Nolato Sustainability Report 2014 7 / 32 Ansvarsfullt företagande – CR 35 Sustainability contributes to profitable business Sustainable development is part of Nolato’s Group’s stakeholders constitute increasingly carbon packaging and transport solutions. etiska kompass. business model and Genom we createatt sprida value foroch disour aktiva important insatser i sinadrivers ourmotverka inatt work. For korruption. example, Fortsatta åtgärder plant New purification som bidrar till energito minimise solvent kutera våra värderingar styr stakeholders by taking a strategic approach vi och följer Under året har systemet med requirements relating to the environment andwhistleeffektivisering, minskad klimatpåverkan emissions and contribute to a better enviupp koncernbolagens sätt att göra affärer. on issues relating to people and the environblowing ytterligare förankrats i koncernen. social responsibility are increasing among och minskad ronment avfallsmängd. in Beijing. Vi är särskilt uppmärksamma på etiska Systemet innebär att en medarbetare via tredje ment. Effective, responsible and profitable Nolato’s customers and we are expected to Development of environmentally adapted frågor i relationer med affärspartners. part och utan att riskera repressalier och Aktiviteter kring hälsa och säkerhet, bland business operations are based on sound busipass these requirements on to our suppliers. products – everything from bio-compatible Normal affärssed i varje land ska beaktas, påtryckningar, kan slå larm om eventuella annat införande av arbetsmiljöstandarden ness menethics and forward-looking om affärsmetoderna environmeninte stämmer A significant portion oegentligheter of sustainability measi sin närhet. ceramics OHSAS to environmentally 18001 ett antaltraps vid ytterligare friendly tal measures, överens medand theseuppförandekod Nolatos are clearly expressed så ska ures are initiated by committed managers for bed bugs. enheter. avstå frånBasic inviNolato’s Principles. affären eller vidta andra relevanta Fortsatt and this made a significant conand staff,arbete Sustainable development is an important åtgärder. Vi har nolltolerans kring mutor, tribution Under 2015to Nolato kommer undertaking vi bland annat numerousatt the Medicalav part ofanpassning Påbörja Excellence project at miljöledningssysMilestones korruption along the way och kartellbildning. Med hjälp arbeta activitiesmed:in this area in 2014: temen Nolato enligt Medical. den nya versionen av miljöNolato actually first began its sustainabilgör av checklistor från FN Global Compact ledningsstandarden Nolato Beijing and –Lövepac ISO 14001:2015. Converting vi work ity årligawithutvärderingar inom detta område. a focus on responsibility and Information kring den Successful measures foruppdaterade energy efficiency verremain certified as Sony Green Partners. Något fall av brott good organisation when the mot uppförandekoden company was sionen av Nolato själ and reduced climate impact. som bl.a. innehåller Samhällsengagemang Nolato’s sustainabilityoch worksocialt ansvar,to continues har inte identifierats och bolagen är fortsatt first formed in 1938. Since then, we have uppförandekoden. Programmes for social responsibility in bland annat genom projekt receive great reviews in the sustainable som Employee Care Program och Building Hope Together. taken many both large and small steps with China and Hungary continue to be develportfolio of Veckans Affärer. ever greater ambitions and the chart below oped. Någrasome shows milstolpar i Nolatos along of the milestones hållbarhetsarbete our way Additional production units in Sweden, towards sustainable development. Of course, Hungary, Romania and China certified it has always been important to meet enviunder the OHSAS 18001 health and safety ronmental and work environment legislastandard. Employee EmployeeCare CareProgramme Program, BuildingHope Building HopeTogether Together tion, but the expectations of society and the Nolato Medical in UK ready for lowIntroduction of Whistleblowingwhistleblowing system system införs TougherEnergienergy och and carbon emissions skärps klimatmålen targets Sustainability work Hållbarhetsarbetet adapted anpassas tilltoISO ISO26000 26000 Gradual Standard förintroduction arbetsmiljönof OHSAS 18001 standard (OHSAS 18001) börjar införas Endorsement Anslutning till of UN Global Compact FN Global Compact Group-wide Koncernövergripande sustainability targets hållbarhetsmål Sustainability reporting Hållbarhetsto GRI standard redovisning enligt GRI Code of Conduct, Uppförandekod – The Nolato Spirit – Nolatos själ Group-wide Koncernenvironmental policy övergripande Gradual introduction miljöpolicy Miljöledningssystem of ISO 14001 enligt Health and safety Arbetsmiljöoch and börjar införas environmental laws set miljölagstiftningen minimum sätter requirements lägsta ribban Responsible Ansvar, andreda ordning och well organised för – grundbultar – Nolato´s Nolato Basic Principles 1938 1950 1970 1990 2000 2010 2015 Nolato Sustainability Report 2014 8 / 32 Sustainable development strategy Integration of sustainable development. of each company. The Group Management The Group’s business concept includes the Our approach includes sustainability regularly monitors sustainability work and aim for Nolato to be the customer’s first issues in a natural way. This involves the issues are integrated into strategic planchoice of partner. This aim includes an ethiinvestment, follow-up work, external comning. A representative of Nolato’s Board has cal and sustainable approach as a success munication, acquisitions, crisis and risk a special responsibility for monitoring issues factor and the purpose of this sustainable management, procedures, reporting and related to sustainable development. development strategy is to contribute to both training. Activities are monitored through dialogue successful business and sustainable developwith management and through internal and ment. The strategy encompasses the followGovernance of sustainability work external audits. In connection with the annuing areas: Sustainability issues arise in many forms in al sustainability report there is an in-depth Nolato’s operations, including in the introanalysis of compliance with legislation, the Reducing risks, minimising the impact on duction of new technology, internal and fulfilment of Group goals, and how perforpeople and the environment, and reducing external communication, corporate acquisimance indicators developed during the year. costs. We do this through prevention, risk tions, crisis and risk management, reporting analysis and investment in modern techand training. Materiality analysis nology. The overall focus of sustainability work is Within the framework of the ISO 14001 Working systematically with continuous stated in Nolato’s Basic Principles, Code of standard, the Group’s production facilities improvement. International standards Conduct and policies. Operational responendeavour to identify and manage significant regarding the environment and health and sibility for activities is delegated to the CEO environmental aspects. This forms an imporsafety are important tools in systematic improvement work. In addition to this, concepts such as lean manufacturing and 5S contribute to a better environment and health and safety. Ethical & Improving competitiveness and increasing sustainable customer trust. Many of Nolato’s customers have high ambitions for sustainable Long-term development, which are consistent with customer relationships our own business strategy. Motivating and caring for our employees. Questions concerning health, safety and Broad employees’ social situation are given priorcustomer ity. We want to be an attractive company offering for both new and current employees. Being a good citizen. Partnerships with Nolato shall be universities and schools, the employment Highly the customer’s of people with disabilities and support for skilled first choice of sports activities are some examples of our partner social engagement. Applying sound business principles. We High have zero tolerance when it comes to corproductivity ruption and illegal business competition. Being open in our communication. This makes it easier for customers, investors Local and other stakeholders to follow up their yet global demands and evaluate our work. presence Adherence to international guidelines. Nolato is affiliated to the UN Global Stable finances Compact and reports on sustainability in compliance with the guidelines in the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). Nolato Sustainability Report 2014 9 / 32 tant backdrop to Nolato’s materiality analyPriority of aspects relating to sustainable development in 2014 sis, which is developed based on the requirements set out in the GRI G4 sustainability reporting guidelines. In addition to the environmental aspects, high the analysis also includes risks and opportunities regarding health and safety, social Business responsibility and business ethics. Our Health Energy, ethics water, Legal CR requireand safety approach is based on sustainability issues materials requiremenUs ments from customers that are significant for Nolato’s business Waste, UUSBDUJWF Diversity, FNQMPZFS Significance for Nolato's business strategy strategy and that the Group has the ability to scrap Climate human rights change influence. These issues are then weighed up Suppliers CR issues Environagainst aspects that we consider important mental risks in China during for the Group’s stakeholders. BDRVJTJUJPOT Emissions to 4PDJBM Environmental air and water engagement adaption of The chart on the right shows the issues products that were identified in 2014 as significant Transport CR and our sustainability reporting describes Soil requirements Chemicals how these issues are managed and monipolMution from investors tored. The end of the report (pages 26 – 29) External contains a list of the GRI sustainable develContact noiTe and opment indicators that we refer to. with NGOs odourT Dialogue with stakeholders low The table below indicates the importance of employees, customers and suppliers to low Significance for Nolato's TUBLFIPMEFST high Nolato, but also that the business interacts with various other groups of stakeholders. Low priority Medium priority HigI priority The perception of which stakeholders are significant – and what they believe is important – is based on experience, commercial relationships and dialogue over a long period, as well as events over the past financial year. Overview of dialogue with stakeholders in 2014 Stakeholder Key areas Activities in 2014 Customers Product declarations, the presence of hazardous chemicals in products, enDialogue with customers when discussing business and during cusvironmental adaptation of products, and the correspondence of Nolato’s tomer visits and audits (see page 20). Code of Conduct with customer requirements. Consumers The majority of Nolato’s products are sold to industrial customers. Although Consumers’ views are addressed via dialogue with customers and the this relates to consumer products such as mobile phones, pharmaceutical demands they place on us. packaging and hygiene items, it is unlikely that the product will be linked directly to Nolato’s operations. Employees Issues relating to health, safety, pay, benefits, social conditions, well-being, Training, information, dialogue, performance reviews and employee development opportunities and business ethics. surveys. Suppliers Environmental issues, health and safety in the workplace, social issues and Information together with audits and supplier assessments (see page compliance of suppliers’ codes of conduct with Nolato’s requirements. 20). Shareholders and inRisk management and efficient use of resources. Integration of sustainabilMeetings with investors. Regular reporting to Nolato’s Board. Endorsevestors ity issues into business operations. Communication and image. ment of UN Global Compact and reporting in accordance with GRI. Society Engagement with local communities where Nolato operates. Participation in Many examples of social engagement, including in China, contact with industrial networks and other organisations. schools and universities, and participation in business initiatives (see pages 16–18.) Authorities Complying with legislation. Engagement in social goals for sustainable deDialogue with environmental and health and safety authorities in convelopment. nection with inspections and site visits (see page 10). By signing up to the Global Compact, we engage in global sustainability goals. Voluntary organisaClimate change issues, hazardous chemicals, energy and water consumpNolato has not had any direct contact with voluntary organisations durtions (NGOs) tion, and social issues. ing the year. Nolato Sustainability Report 2014 10 / 32 Environmental and health Certified management systems Key guidelines and safety legislation create confidence Nolato’s production units are subject to The ISO 14001 environmental management The Nolato Spirit The Nolato Spirit is the fundamental values and extensive legislation relating to the environsystem standard was introduced in 1996, policy document that conveys the principles and ment and health and safety. We use our manand by 1997 Nolato had its first plant certiattitudes that constitute Nolato's values. An update agement systems to identify applicable legisfied to the standard. Since then, introducing of The Nolato Spirit was started in 2014 and lation and implement the measures required. certified environmental management systems courses for employees will be arranged in 2015. From a strategic perspective, it is also imporhas been part of our sustainable developGlobal Compact tant to evaluate the risks and opportunities ment strategy and something that creates Nolato is affiliated to the UN Global Compact, of future legislation, and we do this by parconfidence among our stakeholders. ISO which encompasses  principles on the ticipating in networks and through regular 14001 systematises environmental work and environment, human rights, working conditions contact with various authorities. aims to achieve continuous improvements and anti-corruption. Annual reports are prepared In Sweden, the Group conducts operaand all units are certified. Our continuous in accordance with UN guidelines (Communication on Progress, COP). tions subject to notification obligations in improvement measures involve internal and accordance with the Swedish Environmental external environmental audits. Nolato has GRI Code at 10 units. The units in China, Hunaround 100 internal environmental auditors, We report Nolato's sustainability work under gary, Romania and the US require permits who conducted 88 environmental audits last the guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative or are covered by other requirements under year. Our plants were reviewed by external (GRI G4). The report includes indicators for environmental responsibility, social responsithe environmental legislation of the country environmental auditors on 21 occasions. ISO bility, ethics and financial responsibility. in question. No significant updates to per14001 is now being updated and a new vermits and conditions are expected in the near sion is expected to be published in autumn Certified management systems future. Many of the units report regularly to 2015. Nolato participates in the Swedish We work according to international standards environmental authorities and inspections reference group as part of this work, which relating to the environment (ISO 14001) and health and safety (OHSAS 18001). The standard are carried out by regulatory authorities. In creates good conditions for the effective and for social responsibility (ISO 26000) gives us 2014, nine plants were inspected by environefficient introduction of the new version. guidance in overall sustainability work. mental authorities and no significant deviaAll units are certified in accordance with the tions were noted. requirements of the ISO 9001 quality manLegislation relating to hazardous chemiagement system. In addition, almost 85% cals (REACH, RoHS, refrigerants, safety of the units are certified in accordance with data sheets) largely concerns the entire busiISO standards for the automotive industry ness and this is an area where many custom(ISO/TS 16949) or medical technology (ISO ers are demanding a guarantee of compliance 13485). At most plants, the various managewith legislation. In 2015, a new chemicals ment systems are entirely or partly integrated labelling system, the CLP, is being introduced into the operational system. with new national symbols, and this affects OHSAS 18001-based health and safety Nolato’s operations. Just under half of the management systems have been introduced units are subject to legislation relating to at five units and a further four units are planproducer responsibility for packaging waste. ning to achieve certification within the next In 2014, there were no significant breaches 12 – 18 months. Our UK units have started of permits, conditions or any other relevant work on supplementing their environmental environmental legislation. In one case, a management systems with the ISO 50001 minor penalty was issued relating to fire energy management standard. At Group The Nolato Spirit is available for download BUUhe Group's website, safety at particular premises. With regard level, the ISO 26000 social responsibility www.nolato.com/sustainability to health and safety, five of the units were standard provides a guideline for our overinspected by occupational environment arching sustainability work. This standard authorities during the year. Only one minor is based on seven fundamental principles deviation was noted during these inspections. and describes how an organisation can work Looking ahead, we see growing interest with environmental issues, social responsibilamong authorities in measures to improve ity and ethics. energy efficiency and a transition to renewable energy. Different types of legislation Certifications (% of all units) have been introduced, and Nolato’s units 100 in the UK are considering introducing ISO 80 50001-based energy management systems 60 to meet authorities’ requirements. 40 20 0 ISO OHSAS ISO ISO Other Andra 14001 140001 18001 9001 9001 cert. cert. Nolato Sustainability Report 2014 11 / 32 Group-wide targets Management by objectives in the environwere introduced for sustainable developtable below provides an overview of how our mental field is a requirement of the environ ment. The goals have gradually been made work on these targets is developing and how mental management standard ISO 14001, more stringent and individual units are also we evaluate our ability to achieve them. so the Group units have been working with free to draw up their own local goals. Detailed information on emissions data local environmental objectives for many The Group’s targets cover those areas and other parameters are presented in other years. To coordinate the activities introduced that are both important for internal sustainparts of this sustainability report. in 2010, shared long-term goals in the Group ability work and for our stakeholders. The Area Sustainability target How we performed Environmental Energy Reduced energy consumption in relation to sales. For the u Energy efficiency measures were implemented. Deresponsibility period 2014 – 2016 the target is a reduction of 10% comspite the increase in production and size of premises pared with the average for 2011– 2012, measured as GWh/ at several units, total energy consumption decreased. Find out more on pages 12 and 24. net sales. Climate Reduced greenhouse gas emissions in relation to net sales. u Reduced consumption of fossil fuels, and energy efFor the period 2014 – 2016 the target is a reduction of 10% ficiency improvements resulted in reduced carbon dicompared with the average for 2011– 2012. oxide emissions. Find out more on pages 13 and 24. Chemicals Chemicals that are particularly hazardous to the environment u Over the year a number of chemicals were replaced or health shall be identified and phased out. and further candidates for substitution were identified. Find out more on page 13. Waste Reduced waste quantities in relation to net sales. u Continued focus on issues relating to scrap and waste resulted in reduced waste volume. Find out more on pages 13–14. Environmental management All plants are to be certified to ISO 14001. p All units are certified. Find out more on page 10. systems Environmentally adapted During 2014, Nolato will take part in at least three projects u Projects for environmental adaptation of existing products aimed at reducing the environmental impact of new or existand new products have been undertaken. Environmening products. tal adaptation of products is continuing, even though the target for this year has been achieved. Find out more on page 15. Social responSafe workplaces Minimise work-related accidents and illnesses. Introduce u Systems to report incidents are now in place at all sibility systems for reporting incidents (‘near misses’). plants, and nearly 500 incidents were recorded and Continued introduction of OHSAS 18001. measures taken. The accident rate remains largely unchanged. OHSAS 18001 has now been introduced at five plants. Find out more on pages 18–19. Ethical and humane principles There must be no cases of human rights violations, discrimip Continued information and training initiatives were nation or forced labour. Continued active information to emundertaken. An updated and expanded version of The ployees and new employees. Nolato Spirit corporate values booklet has been developed. Programmes in China and Hungary on integration of disabled employees. Find out more on pages 16 and 21. Business partAnti-corruption measures There must be no cases of bribery, corruption or formation of p The whistleblowing system has been implementners and other cartels. Continued active information to employees. ed throughout the Group. Find out more on pages 16 stakeholders and 20. Suppliers Improved evaluation of suppliers' sustainability work. In u The number of suppliers audited for environmental, 2014, each company must have evaluated at least five subhealth and safety and social responsibility increased contractors. by 50% compared with 2013. Find out more on page 20. Customers Customer requirements in relation to the environment and u The results of the evaluations and audits were good. social responsibility shall be met by a comfortable margin. Three plants in China have been approved as Sony Green Partners. Find out more on page 20. Society, investors and analysts Reporting must be in accordance with GRI. Nolato shall conu Continued social engagement activities in China tinue to endorse the Global Compact. We shall achieve good and elsewhere. Good results from evaluations of susresults in evaluations by analysts and independent institutainability work in business magazines and by investors. Adaptation to GRI G4 implemented. Find out more tions through transparent information in the field of sustainon pages 17 and 21. ability. p Goal achieved. u Positive trend, but work is still required to achieve target. q Negative trend. Nolato Sustainability Report 2014 12 / 32 Environmental responsibility Technologies and environmental aspects environmental aspects may be linked to the Energy consumption Nolato develops and manufactures products consumption of energy, raw materials (mainGWh GWh/SEKm in polymer materials such as plastic, silicone ly plastics) and solvents. Other significant 175 0.07 and TPE for customers within medical techenvironmental aspects include waste and nology, pharmaceuticals, telecom, automoemissions to air of carbon dioxide and sol150 0.06 tive and other selected industrial sectors. vents. Indirect environmental aspects mainly 125 0.05 We manufacture everything from individinclude supplier activities, transport and the 100 0.04 ual components, which customers assemble use of Nolato’s products. 75 0.03 in their own products, to complete products that are ready for delivery to a customer’s Energy 50 0.02 client. Energy is consumed by production equip25 0.01 We also develop and manufacture our own ment, lighting, ventilation, cooling, trans0 0.00 products, such as pharmaceutical packaging. port, purification facility and heating. Nolato 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 mainly uses indirect energy in the form of Total Group energy consumption, GWh Injection moulding – Technology for manelectricity (87%) and district heating (11%). Consumption divided by sales, GWh/SEKm ufacturing components in plastic, silicone Some units use fuel oil and natural gas for and TPE to highly precise dimensions and heating and running purification equipment. stringent quality requirements. Fuel oil is being gradually phased out and Injection blow moulding – Technology for replaced with heat pumps or biofuel. efficiency from equipment and the turning manufacturing containers and bottles in Over the year, this measure was impleoff of equipment when not in use. plastic. We use it to produce pharmaceutimented at the Skånes Fagerhult plant in Measures to minimise scrap and produccal packaging. southern Sweden, and the Götene facility in tion reruns, which also reduces energy Dip moulding – Technology for manufacwestern Sweden is planning to also install a consumption. turing flexible, airtight products in latex biofuel boiler. Training, energy audits and detailed monirubber. We use it to manufacture items Energy consumption amounted to 163 toring of energy consumption. such as catheter balloons and breathing GWh (164) in 2014 and the key performance bags. indicator, which places energy consumption Extrusion – This is a method of manufacin relation to sales, has shown a declining turing tubing and other continuous casting trend since 2011. The cost of energy in 2014 products. We use it to produce tubing for was approximately SEK 119 million (110). products such as heart catheters and EMC Nolato has a long-term energy efficiency shielding gaskets. target (see page 11), which is met through Die-cutting – Technology for manufacturtargets and action plans at production units. ing flat products in one or more materials. We believe it is possible to achieve the energy We use die-cutting for packaging, gaskets target in 2016. In 2014 work continued on and cosmetic details such as loudspeaker energy-saving activities, such as: protection, logos etc. Decoration and assembly – We give comHydraulic injection moulding machines ponents the desired finish through paintare being gradually replaced by electric ing, printing or metallisation, and assemmachines. This both increases energy effible them to create a complete product or ciency and cuts the handling of hydraulic Hydraulic injection moulding machines a subsystem. This may take place on a oils. are being replaced with electric equipment, fully automated, semi-automated or fully A new dipping robot at Nolato MediTor is which is contributing to more efficient manual basis. saving significant amounts of energy. energy use. Replacement of lighting with LED bulbs. From a life cycle perspective, the above techInstallation of lighting sensors nologies cause different types of interaction Optimisation of air-conditioning and coolwith the surrounding environment, and in ing and improved ventilation equipment most cases they have a very limited negamanagement. tive impact. At production facilities, direct Production planning to gain maximum Nolato Sustainability Report 2014 13 / 32 Atmospheric emissions Nolato has a long-term climate target (see Emissions of carbon dioxide, CO2 page 11) and the key performance indicatonnes tonnes/SEKm Greenhouse gas emissions tor, which places emissions in relation to 70,000 28 Nolato’s emissions of the greenhouse gas sales, shows that emissions have decreased carbon dioxide are caused by energy usage, in recent years. We believe it is possible to 60,000 24 transportation of raw materials and finished achieve our climate target in 2016. 50,000 20 products, and an array of indirect activities 40,000 16 among our suppliers and customers. Other atmospheric emissions Reporting of carbon dioxide emissions The use of around 430 tonnes of paints and 30,000 12 is limited to include direct and indirect solvents resulted in emissions of around 20,000 8 energy consumption. Emissions from trans114 tonnes (140) of VOCs (volatile organic 10,000 4 port, business travel, suppliers and users of compounds). The majority of the paints and Nolato’s products are not insignificant but solvents are used for the painting of mobile 0 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 have not been quantified. Despite this, our phones in Beijing. In 2014, a significant Emissions of carbon dioxide (Group), tonnes work includes carbon reduction measures for investment was made in new emission abateEmissions divided by sales, tonnes/SEKm transport, business travel and products. ment equipment, which will have full impact In 2014, Nolato’s production plants emiton the amount of emissions in 2015. ted 62,000 tonnes (67,700) of carbon dioxThere are just over 2.5 tonnes of ozoneide, less than 2 percent of which was caused depleting substances (HFCs) in air-condiby the use of fuel oil and natural gas. Other tioning and other equipment at around 10 carbon dioxide emissions were generated production units. Minor leakages occurred from the production of electricity in those in 2014, which corresponded to around 2 countries in which we operate. Countries percent of the installed amount. Emissions such as China, the US and Hungary use coal of sulphur dioxide and nitric oxides are low extensively for electricity production, causing and amounted to 3 tonnes (4). Emissions of significant carbon dioxide emissions, which dust and malodorous substances are neglihas a major impact on the Group’s carbon gible, and no complaints were received from footprint. We have little ability to influlocal residents during the year. ence these circumstances, but we use other opportunities to reduce emissions. Measures Raw materials and chemicals include: Production processes used around 31,000 tonnes of polymer materials in 2014. More Continued efforts to increase energy effithan 97% consisted of plastics and the rest ciency. consisted of different types of synthetic rubPhasing-out of fuel oil and the installaber. This involves silicone and latex rubber, tion of heat pumps or the use of bio-fuel. which is found in various medical devices. During the year, a heat pump facility was Other materials used, amounting to around installed at Nolato Lövepac and Nolato 1,100 tonnes/year, are paints, solvents and Gota plans to use biofuel. metals. Reduced scrap and lower amounts of For a number of the Group’s products, waste. the customer requires the polymer to consist A new air emission abatement equipment Purchase of more fuel-efficient vehicles of virgin raw materials. This mainly applies at Nolato’s painting facility in Beijing was and improved logistics. to pharmaceutical packaging and medical installed in 2014. Nolato Jaycare has signed a national Clidevices. However, some customers are intermate Change Agreement. The agreement ested in using recycled plastic, such as in covers energy-intensive industry and, by the use of some mobile phone models. The reducing energy usage, participating comamount of recycled plastic used during the panies can receive reduced charges under year was 300 tonnes and there are number a system in the UK known as the Climate of ongoing customer projects in which the Change Levy. aim is to increase the percentage of recyNolato Jaycare is taking part through the cled materials. We are also seeing interest in industry organisation, the British Plastics reducing material usage in some products, Federation, and has, for example, access which is advantageous both in terms of cost to tools for calculating and reducing its and environmental impact. climate impact. Our UK units are planning An environmental aspect that concerns to introduce the ISO 50001 management most of the Group’s companies are customer system to gain better management and requirements for products to not contain control of energy consumption. certain hazardous chemical substances. In Nolato Sustainability Report 2014 14 / 32 addition, there is increased interest in the of scrap, improve waste management and to Water consumption issue of conflict minerals (see Definitions increase recycling. During the year, the measand Glossary). Chemical substances that are ures to reduce scrap were successful at severm3 m 3 /SEKm identified by customers, and/or that have al units. In many cases this was the result of 175,000 70 been identified as candidates for risk reducusing lean manufacturing and 5S. Develop150,000 60 tion under REACH chemical legislation ment is currently positive and the key perfor125,000 50 are a priority. In practice this means that a mance indicators are showing a downward 100,000 40 number of chemical substances are subject to trend (tonnes/net sales) can be noted. phasing-out or other measures. This includes Around 49 percent (50) of the waste was 75,000 30 plastic-softening phthalates, certain organic recycled as materials and 25 percent (22) 50,000 20 solvents and mercury. as energy. Waste sent to landfill decreased 25,000 10 One of the Group-wide targets is to reduce from 10 to 5 percent and this was helped 0 0 chemical-related risks, and in 2014 some by Nolato Jaycare’s units in the UK. Nolato 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 hazardous substances were substituted and Jaycare has also introduced measures to cut further measures will be implemented. the amount of customer packaging material, Total water consumption for the Group, m3 Consumption divided by sales, m3 /SEKm i.e. material that customers would otherwise Water issues have to handle as waste. Water is used primarily for cleaning, saniExternal waste processing costs for the Amount of waste tary purposes and cooling. In 2014, 170,700 year amounted to SEK 2.9 million (2.7). cubic metres (170,800) of water were used at tonnes tonnes/SEKm a cost of around SEK 2.0 million (1.7). Most Transport 6,000 3.0 of Nolato’s units have installations to reduce During the year, measures were continued 5,000 2.5 water consumption; for example, closed to reduce the environmental impact of the cooling water systems are used for injection transport of goods and business travel: 4,000 2.0 moulding machines and other equipment. 3,000 1.5 Nevertheless, there are some processes in Replacement of vehicles and company cars which water consumption is relatively high. with more fuel-efficient options. 2,000 1.0 This applies to the manufacturing of latex Nolato Jaycare introduced a policy on 1,000 0.5 rubber products in Torekov, which accounts passenger transport by train in the London for just under 10 percent of total usage. area. 0 0.0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Just over 5,600 people work at Nolato Many units have increased the use of Amount of waste (Group), tonnes Beijing and this reflects the fact that the unit videoconferencing. Amount of waste divided by sales, tonnes/SEKm accounts for just over 60 percent of Increased filling ratio of trucks and coordithe Group’s water consumption. The city of nated transportation; for example, Nolato Beijing has been identified as a water shortHungary cut the number of containers sent age area and we take continual measures to to the US by 10 percent through greater reduce Nolato’s water footprint. efficiency of packing. The amounts of pollutants discharged to Intelligent packaging solutions by Nolato wastewater are limited, and consist mainly Jaycare cut the number of shipments of sanitary water. All production units are between the UK and Italy. connected to municipal sewage treatment plants. At our Torekov plant we have taken Continued environmental measures to identify substances in wasteadaptation of products water that cause nitrification inhibition and Through its cooperation with customers that may disrupt processes in wastewater on products, Nolato is involved in concept treatment plant. We have carried out trials development, design, material selection, of ozone treatment of wastewater to reduce structure, prototypes, production tools, volnitrification inhibition, which unfortunately ume production and post-processing. did not produce the desired results. The environmental performance of products has become increasingly important Waste and this applies to everything from mobile In 2014, we reduced the amount of waste phones, components, vehicles, domestic to 4,400 tonnes (5,300), 9 percent (15) of appliances and chainsaws to pharmaceutiwhich consisted of hazardous waste. In cals packaging and medical devices. From a line with the Group’s targets to reduce the business perspective, it is important for us to By using intelligent solutions, Nolato Jayamount of waste, a number of specific measbe an attractive provider in the area of envicare is cutting both the use of packaging ures were implemented to reduce the amount ronmentally optimised product development. material and the number of shipments. Nolato Sustainability Report 2014 15 / 32 Here are some examples of projects and Plastteknik and Nolato Gota are some of material and have a smaller carbon footexisting products: the companies conducting such product print. development. One product that has been Product development during the year led At Nolato in China, a number of projects in the range for some years is a plastic to the company now offering phthalateare being conducted on the increased use crate made from recycled plastic and used free breathing bags. of recycled plastic and water-based paints by clothes retailer KappAhl for transportNolato participates in developing environfor mobile phones and battery casings. ing clothing. mental technology products, such as fuel Other measures include cutting the use Nolato Jaycare in Newcastle cut the concells. of environmentally hazardous chemicals sumption of materials in the company’s Nolato Lövepac has developed eco-friendin products and paint; for example, some packaging and introduced a new type of ly traps for bedbugs. customers have strong restrictions on the resource-efficient shrink wrap. Nolato Nolato Cerbo produces pharmaceutical use of PVC and halogenated flame retardJaycare in Portsmouth has long produced packaging (SC Light Caps) with smaller ants. containers for handling hazardous cliniamounts of plastic and therefore a smaller Nolato Plastteknik is examining possical waste (Sharpak) and in 2014 Nolato carbon footprint. bilities of replacing the chrome plating of took over the entire product concept from Lövepac Converting is working with plastic components using different techAmcor. The aim is to establish Sharpak as researchers to develop zirconium dioxnology. In addition, projects to replace aluthe first choice for clinical waste manageide-based (zirconia) products. This is an minium with plastic in vehicle components ment globally. extremely durable ceramic that is also are continuing. The company has recently Nolato Gota and Nolato Lövepac manuchemical-resistant and has an exceptiondeveloped a new type of water atomiser facturer components for Volvo Cars’ ally smooth surface. It is used in products that reduces water usage in toilets. Drive-E generation of engines. These with stringent requirements in terms of Plastics are replacing other materials in engines are around 20 percent more effiappearance and surface quality. Its duravehicles, household appliances and chaincient than their predecessors. bility results in a long product lifespan for saws. This results in, for instance, reduced Nolato MediTor’s environmentally optithese items. weight and fuel consumption. Nolato mised breathing bags use less polymer Environmental friendly trap for catching bed bugs Humans and bed bugs go back a long way. In recent times, they have once again emerged as a problem in the West after being eradiBiotech company Nattaro Labs, based in cated for many years. Growth in travel has Lund in southern Sweden, has now solved resulted in the rapid spread of bed bugs, the problem of the powder dispersing and partly through their transfer via luggage left has come up with a solution that is more on hotel room floors. attractive to bed bugs. The product consists Bed bugs are hard to detect and remove as of a folded strip of cardboard with adhesive of adhesive to the backing, insert the thin they lie still in dark crevices most of the time. backing that is coated on the inside with a layer of diatomaceous earth and fold in the They come out at night to eat, but disappear thin layer of diatomaceous earth. The design sides to create a tunnel to attract the bed back into nooks and crannies as soon as they of the cardboard strip creates a dark, narrow bugs. We then roll up the strip into hundredare disturbed. tunnel with lots of places to hide, providing a metre rolls and pack them so they’re ready In the past, infestations were usually highly attractive environment for bed bugs. for use by pest controllers.” treated by spraying walls and furniture with The product, called Nattaro Safe, is proThe adhesive backing has a dual purpose: insecticide. But because of bed bugs’ unique duced by Nolato Lövepac in Fagerhult, the outer adhesive allows the strip to stick ability to develop resistance to insecticides, southern Sweden. Henrik Ohlson is Sales well to flooring and furniture, while the inner a natural powder made from a type of fosManager at Nolato Lövepac: adhesive ensures that the diatomaceous earth silised algae, known as diatomaceous earth, “This has been an interesting and slightly sticks in the perforated holes. is now commonly used. The diatomaceous different job for us,” says Henrik. “We punch The product is patent-protected in Sweden earth covers the bed bug’s shell, causing it to holes in the part of the strip facing the surand there are patents pending in Europe and dry out and die. face to which it adheres, we attach two types other markets of interest. n Nolato Sustainability Report 2014 16 / 32 32 Corporate responsibility Social responsibility Employees in eight countries All employees have a right to representation Average number of employees strict The average number of employees in 2014 All Nolato employees have the right to be to pa was 8,020 (9,357). Almost 80 percent of represented by trade unions, and to collective 10,000 supp employees work at Nolato’s units in China. agreements. At 14 units in Sweden and Chi9,000 mati Other countries in which we have a signifina, all employees are covered by collective 8,000 our s cant number of employees are Sweden and agreements. At the units in other countries, 7,000 of m Hungary. there are no unions or collective agreements, 6,000 Grou Nolato has a long tradition of responand this reflects a normal situation in these 5,000 and t sible business practice and we believe that countries. 4,000 We c this approach helps attract, recruit, develop 3,000 supp 2,000 devel and retain committed and skilled staff. All Gender equality and 1,000 good units are wholly owned by the Group and combatting discrimination 0 appr comply fully with the guidelines in Nolato’s Gender equality work within Nolato is 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Basic Principles and Code of Conduct. The decentralised and conducted according to Socia practical work relating to personnel issues in the equality plans of the individual compaNola the Group is decentralised. This means each nies. 51 percent (57) of Nolato employees Employees by business area respo individual Group company is responsible for were women in 2014. The balance between the c Average number managing these issues in a way that complies the number of men and women varies from bour with both Group guidelines and the legislacountry to country, and in Sweden and the Nolato Medical 13% respo Nolato Industrial 8% tion and culture of the country in question. UK there is a predominance of male staff. apply In Hungary and China, however, there is a vince Code of Conduct predominance of women. 22 percent (22) of attra – a moral compass Nolato’s Board are women, while the correted a Nolato’s Code of Conduct was updated sponding figure for the Group management W train in 2014 – 2015. It provides clear guidance is 0 percent (0). 24 percent (24) of other relate on how our business principles and values senior executives are women. empl should be put into practice. The Code of In accordance with the undertakings in Nolato Telecom 79% appr Conduct acts as an ethical compass to be the Code of Conduct, we work to combat activ followed by all staff within the Group, irreall discrimination. One target group in this Chin spective of workplace and function. It applies regard is people with disabilities, and these to Nolato’s Board members and contractemployees are making a great contribution Employees by country based staff as well. ‘The Code’ also sets out to Nolato’s development. People with diswhat we expect of our suppliers in terms of abilities work at units in Beijing (China), Average number responsible business practice. Gothenburg (Sweden), Newcastle (UK) and Other 1% Our Code of Conduct is based on docuMosonmagyaróvár (Hungary). USA 2% Sweden 10% ments such as the UN Global Compact, Hungary 6% international guidelines and conventions, Whistleblowing United Kingdom 3% and the ISO 26000 social responsibility All staff have the opportunity to raise constandard. The Code contains undertakings cerns about serious irregularities, without on human rights, labour relations, social the risk of harassment or opposition, using engagement, business ethics, the environNolato’s whistleblowing system. Serious ment, quality, suppliers and communication. irregularities include unethical or illegal Below is a summary of how work is underbehaviour, fraud and serious breaches of China 78% taken in some areas that are subject to the the Code of Conduct, such as bribery or Code: discrimination against employees. No serious irregularities were identified during the financial year. Nol Nolato Sustainability Report 2014 17 / 32 Karlsson. “So it’s only natural that we take Nolato Beĳing’s MD Jörgen Karlsson responsibility for ensuring that they are hapwith school children in Daxiwan. py working for us.” Support for disadvantaged school But responsibility doesn’t stop there. Nolato has now been in Beijing for more than twelve years. Many of the thousands of employees that work, or have worked, in the business come from small and, in some cases, very poor villages in rural China. “We felt it was time to give something back,” says Nolato Beijing’s Managing Director. “That’s why we started getting involved in Daxiwan Town Central Primary School.” Important contribution The school, which has 120 pupils and 23 members of staff, is located in a poor area Social responsibility around three hours from Beijing. It essentially lacked any modern equipment. Nolato Beijing’s management has established long-term important to Nolato cooperation with the school to help improve education and teachers’ working conditions. “We received a warm welcome on our first visit to the school,” recounts HR Manager At the start of 2014 Nolato had just over 7,500 employat Nolato Beijing Anna Wang. “Although the school lacks resources, we could see that both ees in China, making the Group one of the largest Swedish the teachers and pupils are trying to make the employers in the country. As a large employer, it’s important best of the situation. that we take responsibility. Not just for our own employees, “It’s a good cause and we believe we have found an important way of making a vital but also in a wider social sense. contribution to the community.” The project is called Building Hope Many of Nolato’s employees in China are An important aspect of the Employee Care Together and has led to many Nolato Beijing young and come from rural areas to work Program is listening to suggestions from employees, both management and staff, getin Beijing for a relatively short period. They employees themselves. Lots of constructive ting involved. live in dormitories near their workplaces and proposals have been received through quesspend most of their time together with coltionnaires and discussions. Computers and warm jackets leagues. “For instance, we’ve arranged English and In 2013 Nolato Beijing contributed 20 comJapanese lessons, bus trips to central Beiputers, desks for teachers, printers and phoAn attractive environment jing on weekends and various competitions tocopiers. “So for us it’s important to not only make in things such as sport and handicrafts,” he “We believe that this equipment will be the work environment as attractive as posadds. of benefit, and we hope to increase contact sible, but also help to make their free time “We’ve also built a new canteen, introbetween the school and Nolato Beijing,” adds meaningful,” says Jörgen Karlsson, Managing duced a range of meal options and two free Jörgen Karlsson. “Teachers at the school will Director of Nolato Beijing. “About a year ago meals a day.” visit us so that we can show them what we do we therefore started a special Employee Care and where we work. Programme, which aims to attract, retain and Taking responsibility “We also aim to contribute additional develop staff.” While some staff are employed through staffsupport for the school and plan to visit them The programme includes a range of activiing agencies so we can adapt resources to again soon. ties for employees. the short product cycles of the mobile phone “As the village is at a height of 1,800 “We focus on health and safety through industry, these employees are treated accordmeters and it’s very windy, we will be donattraining, information and competitions,” says ing to similar principles as for permanent ing warm jackets and caps for all the chilJörgen Karlsson. “Many employees work in employees. dren, as well as decent rucksacks.” n assembly, so a communal break a few times “We rely on having well-motivated every shift is beneficial.” staff that enjoy their work,” notes Jörgen Nolato Sustainability Report 2014 18 / 32 Training and personal development In addition to this, there are various Causes of occupational accidents An important tool in our personnel work is reward systems and competitions for training and we run management developgroups of employees or individual memOther Energy ment courses, as well as large number of bers of staff, for example on improvements Hazardous substances specific training courses on quality, technoland quality. Lifting, etc ogy, our Code of Conduct, and health and safety. In 2014, employees attended a total of A safe work environment 230,000 (166,000) hours of training, which Our preventive health and safety measures equates to almost 30 (18) hours per employare targeted and systematic. We identify Falls/slips ee. A particularly large number of courses risks, take appropriate action and implement Machinery were arranged in China, Hungary and Swetechnical improvements and training courses. den. New employees are an important target Formal safety committees are in place at 95 group for information and training courses. percent of units, which equates to 98 percent During the year, around 1,000 (1,400) of staff. An important part of this systematic Occupational accidents employees participated in performance work is the introduction of health and safety reviews, career development or other assessmanagement systems (OHSAS 18001). Five Year 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 ments of their own work. Employee surveys units are currently certified and a further LWC* 44 28 64 34 43 are regularly carried out at a number of the four are planning certification in the very LWC per 0.006 0.005 0.007 0.004 0.005 Group’s units. In most cases, they are pernear future. employee formed every other year or every three years, Nolato’s updated Code of Conduct contains LWD * 534 755 616 381 929 and in 2014 six surveys were conducted, an undertaking regarding the continued LWD per 0.007 0.10 0.08 0.04 0.10 with the most extensive one carried out at introduction of OHSAS 18001 at all units. employee Nolato Beijing. In 2014, there were 43 (34) lost work cases (LWCs), which resulted in a total of LWC = Lost work case (absence ≥ 1 day); LWD = Lost work day. Employee Care Programme 929 (381) days of absence. The most comWe carry out special initiatives in China to mon causes were injury from machinery attract, retain and develop both permanent and equipment and falls and slips, which and temporary employees. These activities in most cases only resulted in one or two come under the umbrella of our Employee days’ absence. Some cases of cut injuries Care Programme , which includes activities and muscle injuries resulted in long-term relating to health, safety lifestyle, opportuniabsence. The recording of incidents has been ties to take language courses, and employee enhanced and during the year 475 incidents surveys that are supplemented by a forum in were investigated and corrective and prewhich staff can discuss issues with the comventive action taken. Behind each accident pany’s managing director. In 2014, the prothat occurs are a significant number of near gramme was supplemented by the following misses, and this is backed up by international activities: statistics. Training courses on the environment and Employee involvement in discussions with health and safety are part of our prevenbusiness management has been encourtive work and an average of 4.5 hours per aged. A total of seven meetings were employee were spent on these courses. For The ‘green cross’ is used at many of Nolato’s arranged in which around 140 people example, 700 employees in China attended plants to visualise and address accidents and participated. first aid training. Other courses covered subnear misses in the workplace. A green day is Health checks have been expanded and for jects such as chemical health risks, personal an accident-free day, the day is marked yelthose employees interested, courses in traprotective equipment, fire safety and machinlow if a near miss occurs and an accident ditional Chinese medicine are offered. ery safety. results in a red day. Leisure time is made more meaningful for Nolato Beijing received Level B health employees by means of competitions in and safety certification from Beijing Busisuch things as handicrafts, sport and first ness Development Area, which is the secondaid. The compensation system for overtime highest level. has been made more favourable for staff and the amount for personnel’s life insurance has been raised. Another initiative concerning temporary employees’ finances is that an administrative monthly fee that they previously paid to the staffing agency has now been removed. Nolato Sustainability Report 2014 19 / 32 Certification of work environment marks key step for the future Nolato Gota, based in Götene, Sweden, is a world-class company. any other factor in the company, even more important than quality and profit. Once you Well-organised, efficient, highly automated, with a good work know your priorities, you can make fairly environment and highly trained staff. Despite most aspects of the rapid progress on issues of safety and work environment. We can then concentrate on company being good, it is now making preparations to achieve production and revenues. And formalisation OHSAS 18001 work environment certification. Nolato’s units in and certification of the work environment are an important part of that process.” China, Hungary and Romania are already certified. Always vigilant “We’re fortunate in Sweden in terms of our Peter Holterberg. “So three years ago we “But certification is just a platform,” notes long tradition of cooperation and consenoverhauled training for all managers and Peter Holterberg. “It’s proof that we meet the sus between trade unions and companies,” union representatives in this area. minimum requirements, not that we are as says Peter Holterberg, Managing Director at “Formalising working practices that have good as we aim to be. That means we need to Nolato Gota. “We’re used to incorporating been in place for decades in the company and be continually vigilant and not relax, thinkwork environment issues into our day-to-day organising them into around 20 disciplines ing that we’re good enough. We’re continuwork, which is not necessarily the case in all was a useful exercise,” he continues. ally reminded that we constantly need to countries.” “We also carried out a review and adapted improve.” “But although we have good conditions it’s production facilities in line with Nolato’s Peter Holterberg also believes that in a few important to formalise work environmentrisk manual and the current legislation. But years’ time work environment certification related activities so we can concentrate on just meeting the minimum legal requirements will be a requirement to take part in certain production and revenues.” doesn’t match our own expectations of a tenders. As is already the case with quality That’s why Nolato Gota is making prepagood working environment, we need to aim management and environmental certificarations to achieve OHSAS 18001 certificahigher than that!” tions. tion. A pre-audit will be carried out shortly “Nolato Gota has customers that are before Christmas and certification should be Safety of greatest importance already asking for its suppliers to have achieved in 2015. Peter Holterberg believes managers need OHSAS 18001 certification, even though to ask themselves if they can always look they haven’t achieved this themselves. For Aiming higher employees in the eye and say that their safety both us and our customers, it’s ultimately not “For quite a few years now we’ve taken a is the most important issue. about getting certification, it’s about being particular apporach for a systematic work “It might sound strange in this era of manprepared and able to deal with problems environment, without really having a genuagement speak, but the immediate safety when they arise.” n ine full understanding of the issue,” says of our employees is more important than Robotic cell at Nolato Gota. Nolato Sustainability Report 2014 20 / 32 Business partners and other stakeholders Application of sound business ethics a lot of this work is conducted within the During the year, 12 of the Group’s units were In accordance with the principles of Nolato’s framework of Nolato’s Code of Conduct, reviewed by a number of different customCode of Conduct and the tenth principle of and the target groups are chiefly employers and the results were mainly excellent or the Global Compact, our business princiees, suppliers, customers and authorities. good. In addition to reviewing systems, some ples should be characterised by integrity and Many of the companies have established customers have established systems under responsibility. The Code of Conduct states detailed policies and guidelines covering which suppliers qualify for sustainable develthat Nolato: gifts, entertainment and expenses, and opment certification. report that they continue to take action to One example is Sony Green Partner, for Does not offer gifts, benefits or payments combat corruption. which Lövepac Converting and Nolato Beithat could influence, or be seen to influA whistleblowing system has been introjing have qualified. ence, the objectivity of the recipients’ duced in the Group, giving employees the As part of its interaction with customers, decisions or that breach legislation and/or opportunity to confidentially report seriNolato is expected to pass on sustainable local practice. ous irregularities. development requirements further along its Avoids situations where company loyalty supplier chain. This is done by informing could come into conflict with personal A study for the year shows that the Group’s suppliers about Nolato’s Code of Conduct interests. companies are working on issues of business and specification requirements, as well as difComplies with competition law and proethics at the same high level of ambition as ferent types of monitoring. motes fair competition. previous years. No cases of bribery, corrupIn 2014, we carried out more than 150 Ensures that all staff can raise concerns tion or cartel formation were identified in reviews of suppliers with a focus on susabout irregularities within the company 2014. tainable development. Just over 120 of without the risk of personal consequences the reviews were based on questionnaires for whistle-blowers. Interaction with customers and suppliers and about 40 cases involved formal audits. Many of Nolato’s customers operate in Overall the results were good and we did For a global company, these matters are comindustries in which issues regarding the envinot identify significant risks concerning the plex and the perception of ‘normal business ronment, health and safety and ethics have a environment and social responsibility. A few practice’ varies between countries and culhigh priority. suppliers, however, were not approved by tures. The Group uses the following methods This applies to sectors such as automotive, Nolato. for governance and monitoring of the applifood, telecom and pharmaceuticals. Over Assessment of suppliers’ sustainability cation of sound business ethics: the past few years we have seen a gradual measures is complex and time-consuming. tightening of customer requirements, as well We therefore apply a risk-based model for Nolato’s Code of Conduct applies to all as additional requirements. An area about selecting suppliers for review. A substantial employees and Group company managewhich we have received many enquiries in proportion of Nolato’s suppliers consist of ment teams are responsible for conveying recent years is the use of ‘conflict minerals’ global groups in the polymer and chemithe values in their organisation. (see Glossary on page 31). Around 95 percal industry. These companies often have We monitor costs, expenditure and revcent of units report customer requirements advanced CR measures in place and are enues on an ongoing basis. within a number of central areas of sustaintherefore not the primary target of our evaluWe pay particular attention to ethical able development (see table below). ations. The detailed criteria for which supissues in our relationships with our partners. Standard business practice must Customer requirements Percentage of units reporting sustainability be observed in each individual country, requirements from customers but if business principles do not comply 2014 2013 2012 with Nolato’s Code of Conduct, we must Introduce environmental management systems 53 32 33 refrain from doing business or take alterPhase out hazardous chemicals 42 42 48 native relevant actions. Compliance with REACH and RoSH 37 26 14 Using the Global Compact checklists, we Product-related environmental information 53 42 57 conduct annual evaluations of what measures companies take to counteract bribCompliance with customer’s code of conduct/CR issues 79 74 71 ery. The evaluation for 2014 shows that Other requirements (including ‘conflict minerals’) 58 21 9 Nolato Sustainability Report 2014 21 / 32 pliers are selected varies among the Group’s and schools. This may take the form of study ple with visual or hearing impairments with companies, but it is usually new suppliers, visits, degree work, internships and devela better quality of life, and they are making key suppliers, or suppliers with particular opment projects. During the year, around an excellent contribution to the company’s risks that are selected for follow-up. a hundred pupils and students made study work. A number of other Group units are visits to production facilities. In addition, also employing people with disabilities. Investors cooperation projects were undertaken in Nolato supports schools, healthcare, Nolato’s sustainability work once again areas such as lean manufacturing, the design sports associations and social activities, and received a high score in the sustainable portof employee surveys and degree work. In in many cases our involvement is long-term folio of Swedish business weekly Veckans 2014, Nolato continued with its sustainabiland includes many of our employees. One Affärer. ity collaboration with the International Instisuch example is the Building Hope Together tute for Industrial Environmental Economics project in China. Another example is school Social engagement (IIIEE) at Lund University. pupils being involved in planting trees at the We engage with those local communities In Hungary, the employment of staff with Group’s facility in Hungary. where we have operations. It is important for different types of disability has been further Nolato to maintain contact with universities developed. Employment has provided peoWhen Nolato Hungary extended its facilities in 2014 it had to cut down four trees. As part of its sustainability work, however, new trees were planted and children from the local school helped with this. The children also visited the factory and learnt about Nolato’s sustainability work. Nolato Sustainability Report 2014 22 / 32 Financial responsibility Good financial development Financial highlights Financial performance has been good for a number of years, and although sales SEKm (unless otherwise specified) 2014 2013 2012 decreased slightly in 2014 compared with the Net sales 4,234 4,522 3,874 exceptionally strong 2013, they were signifiOperating profit (EBITA) 470 427 303 cantly higher than previous years. However, EBITA margin % 11.1 9.4 7.8 profit increased despite the lower sales, and Profit after financial income and expense 462 403 272 Profit after tax 364 314 202 this is testament to the efforts of the Group’s Return on capital employed % 28.4 26.7 19.4 employees in constantly improving Nolato’s Return on shareholders’ equity 25.0 24.9 17.7 operations. Equity/assets ratio. % 54 52 44 Cash flow was lower as a result of higher Earnings per share SEK 13.84 11.94 7.68 investments and working capital requireDividend per share 8.50 8.00 6.00 ments, but despite this Nolato has a very Average number of employees 8,020 9,357 8,421 strong balance sheet, providing the Group with significant freedom of action for the future. Nolato’s sales for 2014 amounted to SEK Environmental investments Environmental costs 4,234 million (4,522). Operating profit (EBITA) was SEK 470 million (427), which SEKm Waste management SEKm resulted in an operating margin of 11.1 perOther investments Waste management Health and Emission abatement cent (9.4). All business areas achieved dousafety improvements ble-digit operating margins (EBITA), which contributed to the healthy profit. Earnings per share was 13.84 (11.94) and the equity/ External services Energy assets ratio improved to 54 percent (52). efficiencies Sustainable development Certifications and financial performance Authority During the year, Nolato invested SEK 23.7 charges million (13.3) in measures to reduce enviAdministration Purification facilities ronmental impact and improve the occupational environment. The largest investment was made at Nolato Beijing in an advanced Financial value for stakeholders (SEKm) emission abatement facility that significantly reduced VOC atmospheric emissions from Stakeholder 2014 2013 2012 Comment the painting of mobile phones. Other sigSuppliers 2,166 2,438 1,984 Payment for materials and services nificant investments were made in energy Employees 1,112 1,095 1,012 Salaries and benefits efficiency improvements and increased workShareholders 224 210 158 Dividend place safety. Creditors 10 8 15 Interest expenses Environmental costs amounted to SEK Society 98 89 70 Reported effective tax for the Group Total 3,610 3,840 3,238 12.2 million (13.9) and are dominated by operating expenses for purification facilities, waste management, internal administration and fees to authorities and certification efficient energy usage and a reduction in the Financial value for stakeholders companies. During the year, environmental use of packaging material. Nolato’s business generates a financial value improvement measures generated cost savThe cost of water supply and sanitation that is allocated to various stakeholders. This ings of SEK 4.1 million (3.2). Savings arose amounted to SEK 2.0 million (1.7) and enerincludes suppliers, employees, shareholders, mainly from the recycling of material, more gy costs were SEK 119 million (110). creditors and society. Nolato Sustainability Report 2014 23 / 32 Risks relating to sustainable development Nolato’s strategy includes continuously miniexpect no increase in risks concerning new or Climate-related risks mising operational risks through active and amended legislation. One of the Group’s plants is located in an planned risk management, while still capitalarea where future climate changes could ising on the business opportunities that conContaminated land and cause landslips (Gothenburg). Here, we trolled risk-taking brings. The main features hazardous substances in buildings monitor the risk and vulnerability analyses of risk management are identification, evaluThere has been no known occurrence of performed by the authorities. ation, governance, reporting, monitoring contaminated land, neither are there any Climate change is an important issue to and control. For different types of significant requirements in terms of investigations or Nolato, and an overview of how we work risks, there are procedures for accepting, decontamination. to reduce our carbon footprint is provided reducing or eliminating the risk. In Sweden, three plants have been classion page 13. However, we need to be preNolato’s annual report for 2014 provides fied according to the MIFO method for conpared for how climate change may affect the detailed information about operational and taminated soil. The risk assessment is adminGroup in financial terms. Potential effects financial risks. In terms of sustainability, we istrative in nature and is not based on actual relate to damage to plants and infrastructure, have identified a number of risks of potential sample-taking of land and ground water. and also aspects pertaining to raw materials importance to the Group’s financial posiAll the plants are in the lowest risk category supply, supplier circumstances and changes tion. More demanding environmental legisand are not prioritised by the authorities for in customer behaviour. Taxes, charges and lation, taxes, fees and other environmental further inspections or measures. limitations on emissions could, of course, requirements could entail significant costs Hazardous substances such as asbestos also affect Nolato. for industrial operations. There are also risks are present in some individual buildings and from a business perspective relating to the only result in measures in the event of refurBusiness ethics environment and social responsibility, which bishment or renovation work. PCB invenDeficient business ethics can damage Nolahave gained attention in recent years, with a tories have been conducted at our Swedish to’s reputation and business operations. As particular focus on production in developoperations in which small amounts of these set out by the information on page 20, we ing countries. Nolato carries out regular risk hazardous substances were identified. Decontake a number of measures to prevent corassessments in the countries where we opertamination has been carried out in accordruption and other irregularities. ate. The aim is to identify new risks and/or ance with Swedish environmental legislation. costs relating to the environment, ethics and Human rights social responsibility as early on as possible. Environmental adaptation of products Infringement of human rights at the Group’s Society has a growing interest in eco-friendly companies or our suppliers could damage Environmental legislation products, and one business risk could involve both the Group’s reputation and its busiNolato’s production units have the permits our product range including products that ness operations. Nolato’s Code of Conduct required for their operations, and no more are no longer accepted by customers for applies in the same way around the world. extensive applications for permit renewals health and environmental reasons. We promote the protection of human rights are planned for 2015. Authorities in Beijing, As a supplier, Nolato has possibilities to by informing people, training staff and China have tightened air pollution regulacounter this risk, but as most products are through internal regulations and monitoring. tions. We met these new requirements by produced for customers, development must installing a new purification facility that cuts be carried out in collaboration with our Energy costs solvent emissions. clients. There is a risk of electricity prices rising and Given the air pollution situation in BeiWe constantly monitor developments so having a material negative impact on profitjing, there is still a risk that environmental we can initiate the substitution of hazardous ability and within Nolato this mainly applies requirements will increase gradually. substances, introduce more environmentally to the purchase of electricity. The risk of Where applicable, the Group’s units meet friendly polymers and develop new prodnegative effects from rising electricity prices REACH chemical legislation, RoHS product ucts. We also have Group-wide sustainability is addressed by the Group entering into legislation, producer’s liability Nolatos produktionsenhet for packaging i Torekov targets relating to eco-friendly product develfixed price agreements for 20 – 80 percent of waste, and other relevant environmental and opment. electricity requirements for the next four to health and safety legislation. We currently twelve quarters. Nolato Sustainability Report 2014 24 / 32 A busy year Our work on continuous improvements is gers, which resulted in a detailed energy recyclable pallets and pallet usage is expected continuing and here we provide some examanalysis being conducted. to decrease by 25 percent. A new type of ples of initiatives and activities at Nolato’s Nolato Lövepac in Skånes Fagerhult shrink wrap was introduced for all packagunits in Europe, China and the US. You can replaced its existing oil heating with a geoing and this move will cut the use of shrink read about various sustainable development thermal system, which minimised carbon wrap by 20 – 30 percent. The percentage of measures elsewhere in this sustainability emissions. waste sent to landfill and water consumption report. Nolato Cerbo in Trollhättan, Sweden both decreased by 25 percent. phased out a number of hazardous chemical Sweden substances. Its energy consumption was cut China Nolato Polymer has invested in new, more by 625 MWh. Its lean manufacturing work Nolato Beijing further developed its efficient injection moulding machines and continued, with a number of improvements employee programme, which involved has significantly upgraded its production being made. improving financial terms, competitions, facilities. Nolato Plastteknik in Gothenburg discussions with company management and Nolato MediTech in Hörby and Lomma installed new energy-efficient production training. A number of disabled workers were are continuing their activities within Mediequipment. Key figures for energy consumpalso employed. cal Excellence, with almost 500 proposed tion fell by 6 percent over the year. Lean The Building Hope Together project, in improvements concerning the environment manufacturing work was further developed. which the company supports a school in a and health and safety having been impleIn addition, development was undertaken deprived area outside Beijing, continued with mented and a training day for staff having on an advanced radiator fan solution for new initiatives for the pupils. been undertaken. Cooperation with Lund vehicles. Environmental benefits are gained Its work to cut energy and water consumpUniversity (Lund University Faculty of Engifrom proximity to customers and this helped tion also continued. neering) has been initiated as part of the reduce the environmental impact of transA significant number of suppliers were ARKAD careers fair. porting finished products. evaluated with regard to sustainable developNolato MediTech was a host of the Lean ment. Nolato Beijing easily passed a number Forum in 2014 with participants from 24 Hungary and Romania of significant customer sustainability evaludifferent industrial businesses. Charging Nolato Hungary in Mosonmagyaróvár ations. points for electric cars were installed in the received OHSAS 18001 certification and the In the Beijing Business Development Area car park and energy efficiency improvements company was given additional recognition (BDA), Nolato came ahead of around 9,000 cut electricity consumption by more than 5 for measures to employ disabled workers. In other companies to be named one of the ‘Top percent during the year. addition, it developed an extensive database 20 High Technology & High Expanding’ The main focus of the Nolato Medical for measuring and monitoring energy concompanies in 2014. The BDA also graded Camp 2014 customer event was sustainabilsumption and volumes of waste. Nolato Beijing a highly rated Level B for its ity. A number of invited keynote speakers Nolato Romania in Negoiesti received environmental measures. talked about “Sustainability – A Successful OHSAS 18001 certification. The unit had no Nolato Beijing also installed an additional Growth Strategy?” accidents at all in 2014 and staff turnover purification facility to reduce atmospheric Nolato Silikonteknik in Hallsberg installed decreased. Natural gas consumption was VOC emissions. low-energy lighting. lower than the previous year. Nolato Lövepac in Beijing and Shenzen Nolato MediTor in Torekov introduced introduced a system of regular health checks PVC waste recycling systems. In addition, the UK for staff. Measures were implemented to colnew dipping robot generated energy savings Nolato Jaycare in Portsmouth cut natural lect packaging material from customers and of around SEK 200,000. Work on substigas usage by 60 percent compared with the reuse it. tuting hazardous chemicals continued and past three years and continued to develop its phthalate-free breathing bags were manufacenergy efficiency measures. Waste manageUS tured. ment improved, scrap was cut and the perNolato Contour in Baldwin increased its Nolato Gota in Götene was subject to an centage of waste sent to landfill decreased. waste recycling programme audit to receive certification for the OHSAS The number of supplier evaluations focus18001 work environment standard and is sing on sustainable development increased aiming for final certification in 2015. year-on-year. Nolato Gota in Götene installed data logNolato Jaycare in Newcastle introduced Nolato Sustainability Report 2014 25 / 32 About our sustainability report A focus on materiality Company/plant Country Number of BuilEstablisEnviSignifiNolato’s sustainability report for 2014, in employees ding hed (year) roncance area mental for the accordance with GRI G4 and the Commu(m2) persustainnication On Progress (Global Compact), mits ability report includes aspects relating to the environment, health and safety, social responsibility Nolato Beijing, Beijing China 5,630 (4,893) 36,309 2001 Yes High and ethics. Our ambition is that this report, Nolato Hungary, Mosonmagyaróvár Hungary 516 (506) 18,431 2000 Yes High together with supplementary information, should give our employees and external Lövepac Converting, Beijing China 429 (386) 4,721 2000 No High stakeholders a transparent view of the comLövepac Converting, Shenzhen China 176 (140) 2,635 2008 No High pany’s corporate responsibility activities and how these interact with our business activiNolato Romania, Negoiesti Romania 28 (29) 2960 2010 Yes Medium ties. Nolato Polymer, Torekov/Ängelholm Sweden 63 (68) 11035 1973, 1995 Yes Medium All units belonging to Nolato are included Nolato Jaycare, Portsmouth UK 259 (265) 11132 1986 Yes Medium in the report, with the exception of the unit in Malaysia, the new unit in Malaysia, which Nolato Jaycare, Newcastle UK ** 4,790 1998 Yes Medium started in summer 2014. In total, 19 producNolato MediTech, Hörby Sweden 184 (263) 7,000 1999 Yes Medium tion facilities contributed data. A summary of the different units’ significance in terms Nolato MediTech, Lomma Sweden *** 5,000 1980 Yes Medium of sustainability reporting is provided in the Nolato Cerbo, Trollhättan Sweden 109 (130) 11,000 1971 Yes Medium table. Nolato MediTor, Torekov Sweden 53 (65) 4,500 1973 Yes Medium Reporting principles Nolato Gota, Götene Sweden 128 (109) 23,004 1965 Yes Medium Each production unit provides quantitative Nolato Contour, Baldwin US 169 (150) 8,631 1993 Yes Medium and qualitative information in accordance with Nolato’s sustainability reporting form. Nolato Plastteknik, Göteborg Sweden 105 (104) 13,000 1980 Yes Medium The manager of the relevant company or Nolato Lövepac, Skånes Fagerhult Sweden 41 (37) 4,200 1968 No Low unit is responsible for the quality assurance Nolato Hertila, Åstorp Sweden 24 (24) 4,474 2000 Yes Low of the information submitted. The year’s performance is compared and verified against Nolato Silikonteknik, Hallsberg Sweden 48 (38) 2,500 1995 Yes Low information for previous years. Further qual* Average no of employees. The number in 2013 is shown in brackets. ity checks are carried out in connection with ** Reported together with Nolato Jaycare, Portsmouth. interviews and site visits. *** Reported together with Nolato MediTech, Hörby. Emissions of carbon dioxide, sulphur dioxide and nitric oxides from direct energy consumption are calculated using conversion factors. These are based on the energy Reporting of data content and quality of the fuels used. Carbon Questionnaire for all units dioxide emissions from indirect energy conQuality control of data sumption (primarily electricity) in China and Preparations for a new report Q4 Q1 Sustainability section in the annual report the US are based on emissions data from the Greenhouse Gas Protocol Initiative (GHG Q3 Q2 GRI/COP report Protocol). In this year’s Sustainability Report, compared with the 2011 – 2013 reports, we have corrected carbon dioxide emissions data for the European units in accordance with the Follow-up and review of sustainability data conversion factors in the Covenant of Mayors document. Nolato Sustainability Report 2014 26 / 32 Nolato and GRI The organisation behind GRI (Global balanced, comparable, accurate and reliable and materiality sections have been expanded. Reporting Initiative) has established volunpicture of the organisation’s development Information on some key performance inditary comprehensive guidelines for how comwithin sustainability. It should include both cators has been supplemented. panies and other organisations should report positive and negative aspects. The table below shows the extent to which their sustainable development activities. Nolato has chosen to report in accordNolato works in accordance with GRI G4. Reporting in accordance with GRI should ance with the Core GRI G4 level, and the In the table, SR refers to the sustainability focus on sustainability aspects that are signifindicators have been adapted in line with the report and AR refers to the annual report for icant to the organisation and its stakeholdevaluation of aspects on page 9. Compared 2014. ers. Reporting should provide a complete, with previous years, the strategy, analysis Core areas covered by the report (General Standard Disclosures) Designation acRequirement or indicator Reference External cording to GRI verification Strategy and analysis G4-1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organisation on the importance of sustainability issues and SR3; AR6-7 — Nolato’s sustainability strategy. G4-2 Description of the most important effectors for Nolato’s stakeholders, risks and opportunities. Trends, targets and SR7-11 — programmes. Organisational profile G4-3 Name of the organisation. Nolato AB (publ) — G4-4 Primary brands, products and services. AR5 — G4-5 Location of Nolato’s headquarters. Torekov, Sweden — G4-6 Number of countries where Nolato operates and other geographic areas that are material with regard to sustainable SR16, 25; — development. AR4 G4-7 Ownership and legal form. AR36-37 Yes G4-8 Nolato’s markets and customers. AR16-29 — G4-9 Number of employees, number of operations, net sales, debt and equity, quantity of products provided. AR44-79 Yes G4-10 Employees (employment type, gender, region, variations in employment numbers). SR16 — G4-11 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. SR16 — G4-12 Description of Nolato’s supply chain. SR20 — G4-13 Significant changes during the reporting period (size, structure, ownership, supply chain). SR25; AR12 — G4-14 How the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by Nolato. SR8, 13-14 — G4-15 Externally developed economic, environmental and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which Nolato SR8 — subscribes or which it endorses. G4-16 Membership of national and international organisations. SR30 — Identified material aspects and boundaries G4-17 Companies included in Nolato’s financial report. Companies included in the sustainability report SR25 — G4-18 The process for defining the report content and the aspect boundaries. SR25 — G4-19 List all the material aspects identified in the process for defining report content. SR9 — G4-20 Reason why aspects are regarded as material within Nolato. Internal limitation of the aspects. SR9 — G4-21 Reason why aspects are regarded as material outside Nolato. External limitation of the aspects. SR9 — G4-22 Comments on any restatements of information provided in previous reports. SR25 — Nolato Sustainability Report 2014 27 / 32 G4-23 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope and aspect boundaries. No significant — changes Stakeholder engagement G4-24 List of stakeholder groups engaged by Nolato. SR9 — G4-25 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders. SR9 — G4-26 Description of Nolato’s stakeholder engagement. SR9, 20-21 G4-27 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how Nolato has responded to these. SR9 — Report profile G4-28 Reporting period. SR25 G4-29 Date of most recent previous report. April 2014 — G4-30 Reporting cycle. SR25 — G4-31 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents. Torbjörn Brorson — GRI content index G4-32 References to requirements and indicators in GRI. This list. — G4-33 Policy for external assurance for the report. No external — assurance. Governance G4-34 Structure for Nolato’s governance of sustainability work. SR9 — Ethics and integrity G4-56 Nolato’s core values, Code of Conduct and policies. SR10; — www.nolato.com/ sustainability G4-58 Mechanisms for reporting concerns about unethical behaviour, e.g. whistleblowing SR16 — Indicators Designation Requirement or indicator Reference External according to GRI verification Finance G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed. SR21 Yes G4-EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities due to climate change. SR24 — G4-EC3 Coverage of the organisation’s defined benefit plan obligations. AR71 Yes G4-EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government. None during — the year Environmental responsibility Material G4-EN1 Use of renewable and non-renewable materials. SR13-14 — G4-EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials. SR13-14 — Energy G4-EN3 Direct energy consumption. SR12 — G4-EN4 Indirect energy consumption. SR12 — G4-EN5 Energy intensity. SR11-12 — G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption. SR11-12 — G4-EN7 Reductions in energy requirements of products. SR15 — Nolato Sustainability Report 2014 28 / 32 Water G4-EN8 Total water withdrawal by source. SR14 — Emissions G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (scope 1). SR13 — G4-EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (scope 3). SR13 — G4-EN18 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity. SR11,13 — G4-EN19 Initiatives for reducing greenhouse gas emissions. SR13 — G4-EN20 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS). SR13 — G4-EN21 NOx, SO2 and other significant air emissions. SR13 — Effluents and waste G4-EN22 Total water discharge. SR14 — G4-EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. SR14 — G4-EN24 Total number and volume of significant spills. None during — the year Products and services G4-EN27 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, and results. SR15 — Compliance G4-EN29 Fines and non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations. SR10 — Transport G4-EN30 Significant environmental impacts of transporting products. SR14 — Overall G4-EN31 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments. SR22 — Supplier assessment G4-EN32 Percentage of new suppliers screened using environmental criteria. SR20 — Social responsibility G4-LA1 Total number and rates of new employee hires and employee turnover by age group, gender and region SR16 — G4-LA5 Participation in safety committees. SR18 — G4-LA6 Rates of injury and occupational diseases. SR18 — Training and education G4-LA9 Average hours of training per year per employee. SR18 — G4-LA11 Percentage of employees receiving performance and career development reviews or equivalent. SR18 — Diversity and equal opportunity G4-LA12 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee category according to gender, age SR16, AR40-41 — group, etc. Supplier assessment G4-LA14 Percentage of new suppliers screened using labour practices criteria. SR20 — Human rights Nondiscrimination G4-HR2 Proportion of employees informed/trained on human rights policies. SR11,18 — G4-HR3 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken. SR16 — Nolato Sustainability Report 2014 29 / 32 Freedom of association and collective bargaining G4-HR4 Operations identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining may be at signifiSR16 — cant risk, and measures taken to support these rights. Child labour G4-HR5 Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labour, and measures taken. SR20 — Forced or compulsory labour G4-HR6 Operations identified as having significant risk of incidents of forced or compulsory labour, and measures taken. SR20 — Supplier assessment G4-HR10 Percentage of new suppliers screened using human rights criteria. SR20 — Society Local communities G4-SO1 Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement. SR17,21 — Anti-corruption G4-SO4 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and procedures. SR20 — G4-SO5 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken. No recorded — incidents Product responsibility G4-PR1 Proportion of products for which health and safety impacts are assessed for improvement. SR15 — Nolato Sustainability Report 2014 30 / 32 Global Compact Nolato follows 10 principles important internal document that guides and they meet the 10 principles. In Nolato’s case, for responsible business coordinates employee activities in line with this is based on the information submitted Nolato joined the UN initiative for responthese 10 principles. Group companies’ comin the annual report and the sustainability sible business, the Global Compact, in 2009. pliance with the Group’s Code of Conduct is report. Together, these reports provide a true This meant the Group joining a global netevaluated on a regular basis. In the introducpicture of how Nolato supports and follows work of more than 12,000 organisations, tion to this sustainability report, Nolato’s the Global Compact’s 10 principles. We use 8,000 of which are businesses, in 135 counCEO Hans Porat comments on the compaGRI indicators to simplify the Communicatries. By participating in the Global Comny’s Global Compact work during the year. tion on Progress, and the cross-reference pact, Nolato endorses 10 basic principles in table below details which indicators are the areas of human rights, working condiCommunication On Progress relevant in the context. tions, the environment and anti-corruption. Organisations that have endorsed the Global The booklet The Nolato Spirit, which Compact must produce an annual Commuincludes the Group’s Code of Conduct, is an nication on Progress (COP) detailing how The Global Compact Principles GRI indicators Human rights 1. Businesses should support and respect internationally proclaimed human rights. G4-HR2, G4-HR7, G4-SO1 2. Businesses should make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses. G4-HR1, G4-HR10-11 Labour 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to coll. bargaining. G4-11, G4-HR4 4. Businesses should work to eliminate all forms of forced and compulsory labour. G4-HR6 5. Businesses should work for the effective abolition of child labour. G4-HR5 6. Businesses should work to eliminate all discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. G4-10, G4-LA1, 9, 11, G4-HR3 Environment 7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. G4-EN1, 3, 8, 15, 17, 20, 21, 27, 31 8. Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. G4-EN1-10, 15-24, 27 9. Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. G4-EN6, 7, 19, 27 Anti-corruption 10. Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. G4-56, 58, G4-SO4, 5 Nolato Sustainability Report 2014 31 / 32 Definitions and glossary 5S A Japanese method of organisation in the Energy consumption Nolato reports both ISO 14001 An international standard relatworkplace. It involves sorting, systematising, direct energy consumption (usage of fuel in ing to environmental management systems cleaning, standardising and ensuring. 5S is an own energy facilities) and indirect consumpthat was introduced in 1996. Over 300,000 important element of lean manufacturing. tion (purchased electricity and district heatorganisations globally are currently certified ing). according to ISO 14001. An updated version Carbon dioxide (CO2) Carbon dioxide is of the standard is being introduced in 2015 formed in all carbon combustion processes, Environmental aspects The parts of an (ISO 14001:2015). such as fossil fuel combustion. It is highly organisation’s activities, products or services likely that carbon dioxide increases global that interact with the environment. ISO 50001 An international standard relating warming (the greenhouse effect). to energy management systems. Environment-related costs Costs attributCFCs/HFCs Refrigerants such as chlorofluorable to measures for preventing, reducing ISO 26000 International standard that proocarbons (CFCs) and hydrofluorocarbons or restoring environmental impact directly vides guidance on how organisations can (HFCs) have negative impacts on the envicaused by the organisation’s operations. deal with social responsibility issues. The ronment as a result of their ozone-depletThe same applies for costs concerning the standard was introduced in 2010. ing properties and their effect on climate. occupational environment. The costs include Lean manufacturing A systematic method for Demand for more eco-friendly refrigerants is administration, purchase of services exterthe efficient management of resources. Lean growing globally. nally, authority fees, environmental managemanufacturing aims to identify all the factors ment system maintenance, waste and exterCLP Classification, Labelling and Packagin a production process that do not create nal inspections and audits. ing is EU legislation that addresses dangers value for the customer. posed by chemical substances and mixtures Environment-related investments InvestLWC Occupational accidents causing at least and how users should be informed about ments for preventing and reducing environone day’s absence (Lost Work Case). them. The regulations are being introduced mental impact from the organisation’s operaover a transitional period ending in 2015. tions. The same applies for investments to NGO Non-governmental organisation. enhance the occupational environment. Code of Conduct Guidelines for Nolato’s NOx (nitrogen oxides) Gaseous oxides employees. Supplemented by policies relating Extrusion A method for continuously manuformed during combustion processes to the environment, quality and information. facturing products in strands, such as tubing. through the oxidation of nitrogen. Harmful to health and the environment and causes Conflict minerals Tantalum, tin, gold and Global Compact A UN initiative for responsiacid rain and eutrophication. tungsten are referred to as conflict minerals if ble business practice. Participating organisathey originate from the Democratic Republic tions undertake to endorse 10 fundamental Occupational disease A work-related disease of Congo and neighbouring countries. The principles in human rights, occupational is a disease caused by long-term exposure term arose because of the armed conflicts in conditions, environmental regard and antito a particular factor in the occupational the region, where mining operations often corruption. environment. Examples are noise, dust and contribute to continued conflicts and lead to solvents. GRI The Global Reporting Initiative has human rights abuses. established voluntary comprehensive guideOccupational injury A work-related injury COP Communication On Progress is an lines for how companies and other organisais a sudden incident (accident) attributable annual report submitted to the United tions should report their sustainability activito work that gives rise to a wound or other Nations specifying how Nolato operates ties. GRI G4 was introduced in 2013. injury. Typical injuries in the in the polymer according to the 10 principles of the Global industry are cuts, falls and injuries caused HFCs/CFCs Refrigerants such as chlorofluorCompact. by heavy lifting and repetitive tasks. Nolato ocarbons (CFCs) and hydrofluorocarbons reports occupational injuries as an accident CSR/CR Corporate Social Responsibility/ (HFCs) have negative impacts on the envithat causes more than one day of absence, Corporate Responsibility is a term that ronment as a result of their ozone-depletcalled Lost Work Case (LWC). The rate is encompasses how companies handle issues ing properties and their effect on climate. gauged by the number of occupational injuconcerning the environment, social responDemand for more eco-friendly refrigerants is ries per 1,000 employees (LWC/1,000). sibility, financial responsibility and business growing globally. ethics. OHSAS 18001 Standard relating to health and Injection moulding A method for manufacsafety in the workplace. It will be replaced by EMC The shielding of electronics to achieve turing polymer components. The material, the ISO 45001 electromagnetic compatibility (EMC). such as a type of plastic, is injected under high pressure into a mould in which the component is formed. Nolato Sustainability Report 2014 32 / 32 PAH (Polyaromatic hydrocarbons or polyaroRoHS EU legislation limiting the use of cerWater footprint The total volume of fresh matics) A group of substances found in coal tain substances that are hazardous to health water used to produce a company’s goods and petroleum that are hazardous to health and the environment. and services. and the environment. These substances are SO2 (sulphur dioxide) Sulphur dioxide is released into the environment through comformed in the combustion of petroleum bustion processes. products. The gas contributes to the acidifiPCB Polychlorinated biphenyls are a group cation of watercourses and soil. Large conof industrial chemicals that are hazardous to centrations are harmful to human health. health and the environment. The use of PCB Sustainability Development that “satisfies was prohibited in Sweden in 1972, but the today’s needs without jeopardising future substance remains in the environment due to generations’ possibilities to satisfy their its slow decomposition. needs”. Sustainable development consists of Polymers Chemical compounds comprising three components: Ecological sustainability, very long chains made up of small, repeatsocial sustainability and financial sustaining units (monomers). Plastic and rubber are ability. examples of polymer materials. VOC (Volatile Organic Compounds). A group REACH EU chemical legislation for the safer of organic compounds that easily vaporise handling of chemicals. Chemical substances at room temperature. The concentration of must be registered for a certain use and volatile hydrocarbon in the air has a negative particularly hazardous substances can have effect on health and the environment, e.g. it restrictions imposed on them. contributes to the formation of ground-level ozone.
