Making an impact that matters Contents This year’s Global Report EXECUTIVE MESSAGE DISRUPTION: LEADING THE PACK LEADING TOGETHER LEADING WITH INTEGRITY Global CEO & Chairman Helping government support Quality and integrity spotlights how we are letter Data analytics lead to families in need Relentless focus on risk making an impact that Global locations transformative, decisive action Investments with social management matters. We continue to Aspiration and values Leading cyber risk impact Data privacy and security Advancing global economic redefine ourselves and set Outlook, strategy, and management in a smaller, more perilous world prosperity and social Regulatory and public policy acquisitions engagement the bar higher to continually Harnessing digital disruption wellbeing Ethics deliver quality for clients, our GLOBAL LEADER to inspire engagement, Improving our communities preference, loyalty Independence people, and the society in FOR CLIENTS Anticipate to succeed— Accelerating access to education Putting a global tech leader’s Globally connected which we operate. sales on track leading predictive analytics Advancing environmental Global security Connecting clients with the sustainability Clients first—providing what world’s brightest minds Reporting process they need Metrics Quality and innovation Market immersion program, a gateway to China GRI INDEX World-class leaders, Deloitte UN GLOBAL professionals at work COMPACT—COP Photo credit for the cover image: Oksana Rozputna, Deloitte CIS In this report, the terms Deloitte, our, we, and us are used to refer to Financial growth across the Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Limited (DTTL) network of member emerging markets CONTACT US firms or to one or more DTTL member firms. For more information, see www.deloitte.com/about. Revenue, talent, and other global figures are aggregated across Deloitte member firms. Due to rounding, numbers may not tally with the total. www.deloitte.com/GlobalReport Executive message HOME We are committed to being the best. Building on our network’s leading capabilities, trusted reputation, multidisciplinary services, and national and international reach, Deloitte is positioned to redefine how the professional EXECUTIVE MESSAGE services industry serves clients and the public interest. Global CEO & Chairman letter Global locations Aspiration and values Outlook, strategy, and acquisitions GLOBAL LEADER FOR CLIENTS DISRUPTION: LEADING THE PACK LEADING TOGETHER LEADING WITH INTEGRITY 3 Global Chief Executive Officer & Chairman of the Board letter Watch Global CEO Barry Salzberg share his views on how Deloitte is making an impact that matters to HOME clients, talent, and society. From left to right: Steve Almond, Chairman of the EXECUTIVE MESSAGE Board of Directors, and Barry Salzberg, Global Chief Executive Officer, Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Limited Global CEO & Chairman letter (DTTL). Global locations Aspiration and values Outlook, strategy, and acquisitions We look back on Deloitte’s 2014 fiscal year with This doesn’t mean we can afford to relax our market expertise, and are ready to solve complex • Leading with integrity—Our 169-year history GLOBAL LEADER pride. We achieved much and finished the year pace. Facing unprecedented disruption—whether problems, manage risk, and streamline processes of trust and quality has built Deloitte into what FOR CLIENTS with considerable momentum. caused by exponential technology advances, wherever and whenever the client demands. it is today and both remain the cornerstones digital transformation, intense regulatory scrutiny, of what we do, and how we do it. Deloitte’s In our fifth consecutive year of growth, aggregate • Disruption: Leading the pack—By repeatedly continuing globalization, geopolitical uncertainty risk-intelligent culture enables member firms to member firm revenue increased by 6.5 percent to forging new ground, whether that be in or economic volatility—is the new normal for our technology, exclusive alliances, or with new deliver excellence to clients and serve the public DISRUPTION: LEADING record levels. We continued to see demand grow clients and for us. But we continue to stand ready interest. As an active participant in regulatory across all of our core businesses, in all regions of services, Deloitte continues to stay ahead THE PACK to lead, guide, or advise those that depend on us and public-policy discussions around the world, the world. But the leadership we have built is much of extraordinary disruption. “Anticipate to through the challenges these market forces bring. Deloitte contributes to improvements that more than size and numbers. succeed—leading predictive analytics” and promote investor confidence, facilitate crossIn fact, over our 169 years in the business, we “Connecting clients with the world’s brightest True leadership is delivering globally—the best border business, and support economic growth, have learned how to successfully turn challenges minds” demonstrate how we deliberately, resilience, and sustainability. LEADING TOGETHER services to the best clients, via the best people. into business opportunities. It’s made us who we strategically, and effectively invest in innovative True leadership means making an impact that are today—the broadest, most deeply skilled, ideas, services, and solutions to help our Our Global Report isn’t just about reflecting on matters, predicting and meeting the changing integrated professional services organization in the clients succeed and to disrupt before being accomplishments of the past year, but about needs of clients, talent, and society as each market. And it’s why so many of the largest, most disrupted. “Leading cyber risk management celebrating the qualities that underpin our encounters new and unprecedented challenges. LEADING WITH INTEGRITY sophisticated clients choose Deloitte to help solve in a smaller, more perilous world” provides a impact—leadership, quality, trust, innovation, their toughest challenges. view into Deloitte’s cyber security work and our shared values—now and in the future. The how companies confidently turn to our global continued leadership that we envision for the That leadership was recognized by But don’t just take it from us. To help you network of leading specialists to help them Deloitte network means maintaining and building independent industry experts, who understand how Deloitte member firms continue prepare for and prevent or manage risk, recover on these qualities as we impact clients, talent, found Deloitte to be a global leader to lead the way by bringing the full capabilities from attacks, and create resiliency. and society. of our multidisciplinary model to impact clients, in a record number of fields. Just a the market, and society, our 11th Global Report • Leading together—Globalization has increased In closing, we’d like to thank the more than few examples include global diversity, captures select highlights from the course of the attention on the role that business plays 210,000 inspiring women and men of Deloitte, Business Consulting Services, Business our year. This year’s report is broken out into the in society. Deloitte is at the forefront of the whose diverse perspectives and experiences have following sections, each of which demonstrates our movement that not only measures the effect we made our collective success possible. Technology Transformation, Cyber have when going about our day-to-day work, commitment to being the best: Security, Analytics IT Consulting, and but also how we integrate our positive impact Sincerely, industries including Financial Services, • Global leader for clients—Every day, all over on society into our business strategy. Just a few the world, Deloitte member firm professionals examples include our commitment to the UN Life Sciences & Health Care, and put clients first by bringing innovative ideas and Global Compact, leading the conversation on Public Sector. solutions to their most complex challenges. At impact investing, and strengthening relationships the core of our capability are world-class leaders with organizations such as the Social Progress and professionals who distinguish themselves Imperative (SPI). Barry Salzberg, Global Steve Almond, Chairman by providing deep industry insights and local Chief Executive Officer of the Board of Directors Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Limited (DTTL) 4 Named a leader in Business 54,000 210,400 HOME NEW HIRES TOTAL HEADCOUNT Technology Transformation EXECUTIVE MESSAGE by Forrester Inc.1 $34.2B Global CEO & Chairman letter Ranked #1 globally in Consulting Global locations by Kennedy2 Aspiration and values REVENUE IN US$ Named a global leader in Business Outlook, strategy, and acquisitions 725 Analytics Services by Gartner3 Named a global leader in Cyber Security Consulting by Kennedy4 MORE THAN OFFICES GLOBAL LEADER 150 FOR CLIENTS Ranked #1 globally in Life Sciences Sector Consulting by DELOITTE Kennedy5 COUNTRIES AND GLOBALLY DISRUPTION: LEADING Named a leader in Global Risk TERRITORIES FY2014 THE PACK Management Consulting Services by Gartner6 $190M LEADING TOGETHER Ranked #1 globally in Forensics & Dispute Advisory Services by MORE THAN 940,000 Kennedy7 SOCIETAL IMPACT LEADING WITH INTEGRITY Recognized for innovative client CONTRIBUTIONS work by the International Tax IN US$ VOLUNTEER AND Review PRO BONO HOURS Note: All figures relate to the fiscal year ended 31 May 2014. Global figures are aggregated across DTTL and its member firms. 1 Source: Forrester Research, The Forrester WaveTM: Business Technology Transformation Q3 2012, Stephanie Moore, 19 July 2012. 2 Source: Kennedy Consulting Research & Advisory; Global Consulting Market Index 2013; Kennedy Consulting Research & Advisory estimates. © 2014 Kennedy Information, LLC. Reproduced under license. 3 Source: Gartner Magic Quadrant for Business Analytics Services, Worldwide, Alex Soejarto, Neil Chandler, 17 July 2014. Gartner does not endorse any vendor, product or service depicted in its research publications, and does not advise technology users to select only those vendors with the highest ratings or other designation. Gartner research publications consist of the opinions of Gartner’s research organization and should not be construed as statements of fact. Gartner disclaims all warranties, expressed or implied, with respect to this research, including any warranties of merchantability or fitness for a particular purpose. 4 Source: Kennedy Consulting Research & Advisory; Cyber Security Consulting 2013; Kennedy Consulting Research & Advisory estimates. © 2013 Kennedy Information, LLC. Reproduced under license. 5 Source: Kennedy Consulting Research & Advisory; Consulting to the Life Sciences Sector, 2012. © 2012 Kennedy Information, LLC. Reproduced under license. 6 Source: Gartner, Magic Quadrant for Global Risk Management Consulting Services, 2014. Gartner does not endorse any vendor, product or service depicted in its research publications, and does not advise technology users to select only those vendors with the highest ratings or other designation. Gartner research publications consist of the opinions of Gartner’s research organization and should not be construed as statements of fact. Gartner disclaims all warranties, expressed or implied, with respect to this research, including any warranties of merchantability or fitness for a particular purpose. 7 Source: Kennedy Consulting Research & Advisory; Kennedy Forensics and Dispute Advisory Services 2013. © 2013 Kennedy Information, LLC. Reproduced under license. 5 REVENUES FY2014 +6.5% $34.2 US$ B REVENUE BY BUSINESS Consulting HOME FY2013 +5.6% $3.0 Audit $32.4 (+6.8%) Tax & Legal $3.2 ERS (+4.2%) $11.4 FA EXECUTIVE MESSAGE (+10.3%) US$ B Global CEO & Chairman letter FY2012 +8.3% $6.5 $34.2 Global locations US$ B $31.3 (+7.7%) Aspiration and values Outlook, strategy, and acquisitions US$ B $10.1 (+2.5) GLOBAL LEADER FOR CLIENTS REVENUE BY REGION DISRUPTION: LEADING THE PACK $17.4 LEADING TOGETHER (+7.5%) $12.1 (+5.8%) $4.8 LEADING WITH INTEGRITY (+4.9%) Americas EMEA Asia Pacific REVENUE BY INDUSTRY GROUP Note: Percentages are year-over-year change Revenue figures are in local currency, in US$ billions. Global figures are $9.5 (+5.9%) $6.6 (+4.5%) $4.3 (+0.1%) $4.0 (+11.9%) $3.8 (+9.1%) $3.1 $3.0 (+17.4%) (+2.8%) aggregated across Deloitte member firms. FINANCIAL CONSUMER MANUFACTURING PUBLIC SECTOR TECHNOLOGY, LIFE SCIENCES ENERGY & Because of rounding, numbers may not tally with the total. SERVICES BUSINESS MEDIA & AND HEALTH RESOURCES 6 TELECOM CARE TALENT FY2014 +3.7% 210,400 BY LEVEL 10,247 PARTNERS AND PRINCIPALS 163,676 PROFESSIONAL STAFF 36,478 ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF HOME FY2013 +4.9% 202,885 5% EXECUTIVE MESSAGE Global CEO & Chairman letter Global locations FY2012 +6.5% 193,359 Aspiration and values Outlook, strategy, and acquisitions 78% GLOBAL LEADER FOR CLIENTS 17% DISRUPTION: LEADING THE PACK BY GENDER LEADING TOGETHER 21% WOMEN AMONG LEADING WITH INTEGRITY MEMBER FIRM PARTNERS, PRINCIPALS, AND DIRECTORS 56% 117,557 44% 92,843 AMERICAS: 52,717 | 40,087 57% 43% EMEA: 41,574 | 33,204 56% 44% ASIA PACIFIC: 23,266 | 19,553 Global figures are aggregated across DTTL and its member firms. Because of rounding, numbers may not tally with the total. 54% 46% 7 NEW HIRES FY2014 +26% 54,000 FY2013 +25% BY REGION HOME 51,405 23K (+25%) 19K EXECUTIVE MESSAGE Global CEO & Chairman letter Global locations FY2012 +27% (+25%) 12K 51,440 Aspiration and values (+27%) Outlook, strategy, and acquisitions Americas EMEA Asia Pacific GLOBAL LEADER FOR CLIENTS BY LEVEL DISRUPTION: LEADING 257 NEW MEMBER FIRM 47,160 NEW 6,542 NEW THE PACK PARTNERS AND PRINCIPALS PROFESSIONAL STAFF ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF 1% LEADING TOGETHER LEADING WITH INTEGRITY 87% 12% Global figures are aggregated across DTTL and its member firms. Because of rounding, numbers may not tally with the total. 8 Global locations GLOBAL LOCATIONS With a globally connected network of member firms, Deloitte serves clients in more than 150 countries and territories. HOME (Note: Markers on the map indicate capital cities and not office locations, which are too numerous to display.) Please visit www.deloitte. EXECUTIVE MESSAGE com/GlobalOfficeDirectory for the most up-todate information on specific office addresses or Global CEO & Chairman letter for service inquiries in locations not listed here. Global locations Aspiration and values Outlook, strategy, and acquisitions GLOBAL LEADER FOR CLIENTS DISRUPTION: LEADING THE PACK Albania China Hong Kong Montenegro Slovakia Algeria Colombia Hungary Morocco Slovenia Andorra Congo (Brazzaville) Iceland Mozambique South Africa LEADING TOGETHER Angola Costa Rica India Namibia Spain Argentina Côte d’Ivoire Indonesia Netherlands Sweden Armenia Croatia Iraq New Zealand Switzerland Aruba Curaçao Ireland Nicaragua Syria Australia Cyprus Isle of Man Nigeria Taiwan LEADING WITH INTEGRITY Austria Czech Republic Israel Northern Mariana Islands Tajikistan Azerbaijan Democratic Republicof Congo Italy Norway Thailand Bahamas Denmark Japan Oman Timor-Leste Bahrain Dominican Republic Jordan Pakistan Trinidad and Tobago Barbados Ecuador Kazakhstan Palau Tunisia Belarus Egypt Kenya Panama Turkey Belgium El Salvador Kosovo Papua New Guinea Turkmenistan Benin Equatorial Guinea Kuwait Paraguay U.S. Virgin Islands Bermuda Estonia Kyrgyzstan Peru Uganda Bolivia Ethiopia Latvia Philippines Ukraine Bosnia-Herzegovina Federated States of Micronesia Lebanon Poland United Arab Emirates Botswana Finland Libya Portugal United Kingdom of  Brazil France Lithuania Puerto Rico Great Britain and  British Virgin Islands Gabon Luxembourg Qatar Northern Ireland Brunei Darussalam Georgia Macao Republic of Korea United Republic of Tanzania Bulgaria Germany Macedonia Republic ofMoldova United States Cameroon Ghana Malawi Romania Uruguay Canada Gibraltar Malaysia Russian Federation Uzbekistan Cayman Islands Greece Malta Rwanda Venezuela Chad Greenland Marshall Islands Saudi Arabia Viet Nam Channel Islands  Guam Mauritius Senegal Yemen (Jersey and Guernsey) Guatemala Mexico Serbia Zambia Chile Honduras Mongolia Singapore Zimbabwe 9 Aspiration and values True leadership HOME EXECUTIVE MESSAGE Global CEO & Chairman letter Global locations Aspiration and values Outlook, strategy, and acquisitions Photo credit: Deloitte Belgium GLOBAL LEADER Our aspiration We are mindful of our role in society, our The Deloitte Shared Values Deloitte aspires to become the world’s undisputed obligation to our organization and its customers, Our Shared Values bind the people of the Deloitte “No enterprise can exist for itself FOR CLIENTS leader in professional services. Achieving that goal and our responsibility as employers. We aim high, member firms together, providing the basis for alone. It ministers to some great confident that our daily efforts will come together requires that we are consistently preferred by the trusting one another and enabling the network to need, it performs some great service, most sought-after clients and talent, and that we exponentially to benefit a world that needs achieve its vision. are recognized as the benchmark of excellence in continuous infusions of integrity, business acumen, not for itself, but for others; or failing DISRUPTION: LEADING our field. innovation, enthusiasm, thoughtfulness, and most Integrity therein, it ceases to be profitable and THE PACK of all, meaningful actions. We believe nothing is more important than ceases to exist.” Deloitte continues to be recognized by national our reputation. That’s why we are committed and global clients, analysts, and other stakeholders When member firms’ clients succeed and grow, to sustainable, responsible business practices. – Calvin Coolidge for worldwide leadership in key consulting and capitalizing on opportunities and overcoming Behaving with the highest levels of integrity is advisory professional services. During the past challenges, economies prosper. When those clients fundamental to who we are. LEADING TOGETHER year, Deloitte member firms earned praise for implement new ideas and enhance the quality of work in established and emerging areas such as their offerings, consumers benefit. And when those Outstanding value to markets and clients analytics, digital and data transformation, cyber clients operate ethically and adopt environmentally We play a critical role in helping both the financial security, financial advisory, finance transformation, friendly processes, society thrives. markets and our member firm clients operate more LEADING WITH INTEGRITY human capital and talent, risk, security and privacy, effectively. We consider this role a privilege, and we Deloitte strives to influence those activities through strategy and operations, sustainability, tax, and know it requires constant vigilance and unrelenting leadership, insight, expertise, problem-solving technology; and in industries including financial commitment. skills, and deep knowledge of our globalized services, life sciences and health care, oil and gas, marketplace. Doing so demands teamwork, Commitment to each other and public sector. working together across geographic, functional, We believe our culture of borderless collegiality “These independent accolades are extremely and business borders. gives us a competitive advantage, so we work hard important to us—unbiased experts in the field to nurture and preserve it. We go to extraordinary This multifaceted, inclusive approach is, perhaps, telling us what we’re doing well—and these clearly lengths to support our people. our greatest strength. The people who represent demonstrate that Deloitte sets the standard for Deloitte come from all corners of the globe, Strength from cultural diversity professional services,” says Barry Salzberg, Global bringing a tremendous variety of skills and Both member firm clients and our people benefit Chief Executive Officer, DTTL. backgrounds. Yet, they function in unison, aligned from multidimensional thinking. Bringing together We also take seriously the vital role Deloitte plays with a common vision and shared values that are individuals of different backgrounds, cultures, and in enhancing the confidence of the investing appreciated by clients and talent alike. thinking styles helps clients rise above complex public and the capital markets. “As a leader of our business challenges, and enables our people to profession, we engage regulators worldwide to develop into better professionals and leaders. promote appropriate reforms that improve quality for all parties,” Salzberg says. “As one of the world’s most trusted providers of audit services, Deloitte delivers a unique, high-quality experience in this important service to business and society.” 10 Outlook, strategy, and acquisitions Redefining leadership Deloitte named a global leader in Operating Model Strategy & Organization Design HOME Consulting by Kennedy Source: Kennedy Consulting Research & Advisory; Operating Model Strategy & Organizational Design Consulting; Kennedy Consulting Research & Advisory estimates. © 2014 Kennedy Information, LLC. EXECUTIVE MESSAGE Reproduced under license Global CEO & Chairman letter Global locations Aspiration and values Outlook, strategy, and acquisitions There is no better time to improve than when • Fluid geographic challenges presented by the GLOBAL LEADER you’re already a respected and trusted leader. expanding scope of multinationals, increased ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE FOR CLIENTS Building on our leading capabilities, trusted demands in emerging markets, and growing Solving complex problems is our passion. We’ve built our world-class businesses to affect change that reputation, multidisciplinary services, and national cross-border needs. matters, and to deliver transformational impact for clients and the communities in which we work. and international reach, the Deloitte network continually improves how the professional services By repeatedly forging new ground, Deloitte Our operating model allows our businesses to work better together and enables sustained enhancement DISRUPTION: LEADING industry serves clients and the public interest, continues to stay ahead of the considerable and innovations to client services and cross-border delivery, and talent development and deployment. THE PACK setting the pace for others to follow. disruption facing clients, our people, and the Our multidisciplinary portfolio empowers Deloitte professionals to deliver deep business capability and societies in which we operate. Deloitte’s strategy—across our global network— industry insights across a broad spectrum of services. is rooted in true leadership. Driven by clients, Underpinning our long-term strategy is a continued Consulting Enterprise Risk Services industries, markets, and businesses, it critically commitment to provide clients with the highest • Human Capital • Controls Transformation LEADING TOGETHER assesses and disrupts every part of our network, quality services through Deloitte’s multidisciplinary C • Strategy & Operations & Assurance • Technology • Cyber Risk Services when necessary, to adapt to the changing model, delivering innovative solutions from strategy FA • Governance, Regulatory environment in which we work, including: to implementation. Financial Advisory & Risk • Corporate Finance Advisory LEADING WITH INTEGRITY • Increasing geopolitical changes that are Deloitte member firms remain sharply focused on • M&A Transaction Services Audit reshaping the global marketplace; a shifting their distinctive abilities to address the specific • Valuation Services • Financial Statement Audits balance of power, a more integrated Asia, needs of their clients through their distinctive Clients • Forensic • Accounting Advisory growing political unrest, and limits on wage skills, deep industry knowledge, and strategic A • Restructuring Services • Assurance Services • Integrated Services arbitrage are creating new challenges for investments—while bolstering trust in the TL Tax & Legal businesses. marketplace and delivering value to society. • Global Business Tax • Escalating economic volatility and uncertainty, Strategic acquisitions • Indirect Tax • Global Employer Services causing financial instability in some parts of Deloitte actively seeks acquisitions that contribute ERS • Legal the world and forcing many companies to value over size. Deloitte member firms made more • Business Process Solutions restructure finances and governments to alter than 20 acquisitions in key capability areas and spending. geographies across the network during FY2014, • Rapidly shifting technology paradigms where helping the organization add new competencies, • Urgentis Digital Crisis Solutions, a Canadian • NXG Business Solutions, Quattro Innovation data proliferation, reliance on open innovation, grow market share, diversify risk, and augment cyber security specialist. Group, and Digicon, three Australian technology and the use of data analytics are exploding, member firm client service offerings and global companies that enhance Deloitte Australia’s • McColl Partners, a U.S. provider of middlewhile cyber security threats worsen. delivery. Key acquisitions included: capabilities in SAP enterprise performance market investment banking services. • Platon Group, a technology consulting firm in management, cloud computing, and Web • Regulatory changes, including the potential for • Banyan Branch, a U.S. social media and digital content management consulting. Denmark that provides information management, a markedly different global regulatory landscape agency. business intelligence, and analytics services. to emerge at the end of a protracted period of change across several markets. 11 Global leader for clients HOME Every day, Deloitte member firm professionals put clients first, delivering innovative ideas, analyst-recognized capabilities, deep industry know-how, an integrated, multidisciplinary portfolio, and solutions to their most complex EXECUTIVE MESSAGE challenges—wherever they need us around the globe. Watch Global CEO Barry Salzberg share his views on how GLOBAL LEADER Deloitte is making an impact that matters to clients. FOR CLIENTS Putting a global tech leader’s sales on track Clients first—providing what they need Quality and innovation Market immersion program, a gateway to China World-class leaders, Deloitte professionals at work Financial growth across emerging markets DISRUPTION: LEADING THE PACK LEADING TOGETHER LEADING WITH INTEGRITY Photo credit: Eepuri Nehemiah, Deloitte India 12 Putting a global tech leader’s sales on track Helping a client’s lifeblood flow HOME EXECUTIVE MESSAGE GLOBAL LEADER FOR CLIENTS Putting a global tech leader’s sales on track Clients first—providing what they need Internet sites have a number of revenue models, In late 2013, the tech company engaged Deloitte but few are as successful as traditional advertising UK to consolidate inconsistently compiled data, Deloitte named a global Quality and innovation sales. The need to attract, manage, and satisfy determine how that information was being used leader in Analytics IT Market immersion program, a advertisers is as important to the success of a by the EMEA marketing teams, and implement an Consulting by Kennedy gateway to China large social media company as it is to small-town improved lead-tracking solution. “By providing a Source: Kennedy Consulting Research & Advisory; IT newspapers. clear picture of how its information is being used Consulting: Analytics 2014; Kennedy Consulting Research and creating consistency in lead source tracking & Advisory estimates. © 2014 Kennedy Information, LLC. World-class leaders, Deloitte What is often more difficult for new media— across systems, the client now has an enhanced Reproduced under license. professionals at work especially popular sites with millions of users—is view of campaign success and channel revenue effectively tracking and leveraging global efforts generation,” Turner explains. “This will allow them Financial growth across emerging to lure large numbers of potential clients. Simple to make further improvements to their marketing Download TMT markets spreadsheets won’t suffice. This was the case for one company best known for its innovative effectiveness, reporting systems and processes on Predictions 2014 to a global scale.” technology. explore what’s ahead in Technology, Media, & DISRUPTION: LEADING Strategically placed ads that appear based on key Following successful implementation Telecoms. THE PACK search words are a key source of the company’s revenue. So, when it needed help monitoring the of the solution in EMEA, the client effectiveness of its advertising service’s campaigns extended Deloitte UK’s engagement and promotions, the company turned to Deloitte UK. to roll out the new ways of working Deloitte named a Clarity enables improvement on a global basis to North America, worldwide leader in LEADING TOGETHER “It’s vital that our client is able to accurately track Latin America, and Asia Pacific. Business Consulting sales calls and monitor the success of its campaigns Services by IDC and promotions via incoming call volumes and “No matter how technologically sophisticated or MarketScape advertiser acquisitions,” explains Nick Turner, successful a company is, it still has a multitude of Source: IDC MarketScape: Worldwide Business LEADING WITH INTEGRITY Partner, Deloitte Digital (Deloitte UK). “However, needs that can be more efficiently addressed by Consulting Services 2014 Vendor Assessment by Cushing a provider like Deloitte,” Turner says. “Problems Anderson, February 2014, IDC #246615 in its EMEA region, there was a significant variance in the completeness of this information across they find challenging or unusual often are similar geographies and a lack of a common denominator to problems we’ve already solved for other Fortune across systems to track call conversion rates.” Global 500® clients. We bring talent and skills to the table that would be far too expensive and timeconsuming to replicate internally.” 13 Clients first—providing what they need Leading beyond borders Deloitte wins multiple Oracle Excellence Awards in North America for the eighth year in a row. HOME Watch Roger Dassen, Deloitte Global Managing EXECUTIVE MESSAGE Director of Clients, Services, and Talent, talk about how Deloitte puts clients first. GLOBAL LEADER FOR CLIENTS Deloitte is awarded 2014 Putting a global tech leader’s sales Americas Tax Innovator on track Firm of the Year by the International Tax Review. Clients first—providing what they need Seams make the strongest fabrics weaker, create “By tackling this on a regional, rather than country“The close and seamless collaboration among friction for moving objects, and draw unwanted by-country basis, we greatly increased client our multifunctional country teams was the key Watch the tax@hand Quality and innovation attention. satisfaction and positioned Deloitte as not just a to meeting Lenovo’s high expectations in such a video to learn how Market immersion program, a In professional services, the ability to serve clients vendor, but also a proactive teammate committed challenging transaction.” this new app puts the gateway to China to Cisco’s success in the region,” says Gary Lord, seamlessly in multiple countries or functions has Leading with technology latest tax news and information, Principal, Audit & Enterprise Risk Services, Deloitte & become a necessity. “Today’s marketplace demands Touche LLP (Deloitte U.S.). “We conducted work Deloitte’s technical knowledge and professional customizable for your tax World-class leaders, Deloitte truly borderless behavior,” says Roger Dassen, sessions in four Latin American countries, with insight has positioned it among the world’s jurisdiction(s), at your fingertips. professionals at work Deloitte Global Managing Director of Clients, Deloitte teams working side-by-side with Cisco most respected tax advisors. Tax & Legal sees an Services, and Talent. “Our largest and most global teams to identify process improvements. This opportunity to differentiate itself, though, through Financial growth across emerging clients choose Deloitte because of our network’s approach showed our commitment and greatly technology that connects clients and member Deloitte named #1 in markets ability to deliver both in terms of depth and breadth.” enhanced our relationship with the client.” firm tax professionals to tools, processes, data, Global Consulting by knowledge, and each other. “The tax profession Kennedy for the fourth With a coordinated network of 47 member “We were impressed with how the Deloitte team is becoming more tech-enabled. We want to lead firms operating in more than 150 countries seamlessly connected to serve us as a region. No that transformation,” says Dan Lange, Deloitte consecutive year. and territories—supplemented by centers of Source: Kennedy Consulting Research & Advisory; Global DISRUPTION: LEADING other service provider has made this kind of an Global Tax & Legal Leader. excellence and global delivery centers—Deloitte investment with us in Latin America,” says David Consulting Index 2013; Kennedy Consulting Research & THE PACK is positioned to serve clients seamlessly, adeptly, Advisory estimates. © 2014 Kennedy Information, LLC. Sweet, project leader for Cisco. A new tool that embodies this commitment is Reproduced under license. and professionally around the world. “Clients Deloitte tax@hand, a sleek, customizable mobile expect and deserve continuity,” Dassen says. “We Meeting high expectations app that aggregates news and information about differentiate ourselves by providing deep industry The opportunity for Lenovo, the world’s tax jurisdictions across the globe. Available on The tax@hand app is the latest tool in a growing LEADING TOGETHER insights and local market expertise, with the added largest personal computer maker, existed in mobile, tablet, and desktop devices, the app list of tech-enabled services offered by Deloitte benefit of an entire network of more than 210,000 its mobile device business. In January 2014, provides relevant news, tax information, and member firms. It joins Deloitte Tax Insight (DTi), professionals ready to solve complex problems, Lenovo announced the acquisition of Motorola contacts. Deloitte tax@hand is integrated with social a proprietary tax-management system that lets manage risk, and streamline processes wherever Mobility from Google, making Lenovo the largest media, can be personalized by selected geographical businesses manage their global tax commitments and whenever the client demands.” smartphone supplier in China and one of the top and topical areas of interest, and includes multilingual through a single system with transparency and LEADING WITH INTEGRITY three in the world. capabilities. A phased rollout of the app began with visibility across jurisdictions. Deloitte Revatic Smart A regional approach to service technology, used by Deloitte’s indirect tax recovery its soft launch in September 2014. Longtime client Cisco Systems recently engaged Deloitte was selected as the financial and tax service, automates data flows and processing of Deloitte to improve service delivery in Latin America. advisor to Lenovo on the acquisition transaction, “We have developed an app that mirrors the value-added tax (VAT) refunds for companies. And A cross-functional Deloitte team came together across the largest ever for Lenovo. The engagement insights Deloitte delivers to clients every day, offers Tax Data Analytics Smart Lite technology helps borders to hold service delivery assessments and required an extensive and diverse team unique value, and creates engagement with clients clients establish key performance predictors to workshops with Cisco in pilot countries to identify representing Deloitte member firms from China, worldwide in a personalized manner,” explains make timely, more-informed decisions. “These improvements to its finance, statutory, and tax the U.S., and Brazil. “The work entailed intense Paul Riley, Tax National Managing Partner, Deloitte innovations and others like them strengthen our reporting processes. The teams developed an action negotiations and around-the-clock work under Australia. “Deloitte is the only one of the Big Four ability to be a seamless global service provider and plan to implement an operating model that increases challenging conditions. On top of that, we needed to offer clients this highly accessible, consolidated, make Deloitte a clear leader in the digital space,” visibility into activities, lowers costs, and improves to complete it within a short timeframe,” says global view.” Riley says. efficiency and effectiveness across the region. Gary Wu, FAS Partner, Deloitte China (Beijing). 14 Quality and innovation Enhancing the audit For questions on audit, please email us at globalaudit@deloitte.com. HOME Watch Deloitte audit partners share personal perspectives on their EXECUTIVE MESSAGE profession, how it impacts business and society, and what’s next on their horizons. GLOBAL LEADER FOR CLIENTS Putting a global tech leader’s sales on track Clients first—providing what they need The audit, vital to building trust with the public and financial position of companies—offering further In pursuing the many possibilities that data design and execute an audit specifically tailored to capital markets, is undergoing an evolution toward insights into the scope and key factors impacting analytics has to offer, Deloitte member firms have the needs of the client, while the extended audit Quality and innovation an enriched experience for everyone. Innovative the audit—and reveal a more complete picture that begun to develop and share innovative solutions report is providing valuable additional commentary technologies that collect and analyze enormous will benefit all stakeholders. across the network. Ranging from enterprise-wide into the scope and key factors impacting the Market immersion program, a volumes of data and enhanced auditor’s reporting applications to engagement toolkit utilities, these audit. “To us, a distinctive audit is about visionary gateway to China are providing opportunities to deliver valuable Innovation in action new analytic tools are transforming the audit in a thinking, outstanding people, and the smartest insights and commentary about an organization’s Deloitte’s multiyear investment in Deloitte Audit game-changing way. technologies,” says Panos Kakoullis, Managing World-class leaders, Deloitte financial health and performance that could barely (DA), an integrated service platform that transforms Partner, Audit, Deloitte UK. “These differentiators, professionals at work be imagined a decade ago. These advancements audit delivery, is making a tangible impact for “A growing number of audit teams are using supported by innovative analytic tools, help us to are critical to helping auditors meet the everDeloitte member firms and their clients. Featuring pioneering technology that can automate a deliver tailored, forward-looking audits.” Financial growth across emerging growing expectations of the market and regulators. a comprehensive suite of tools and capabilities, wide range of audit-testing procedures, analyze markets DA aids in the consistent execution of high-quality trends within and across engagements, enhance Audit has been, is, and will continue to be a Deloitte continues to make significant investments audits within and across borders, and the effective understanding of transaction flows and processes, cornerstone of Deloitte. Resources are being to transform its audit services to deliver high collaboration of auditors and clients worldwide. and flag items for further investigation,” Chris devoted to strengthen Deloitte’s position as an quality, meaningful results for its clients and By the end of FY2015, Deloitte member firms Thatcher, Deloitte Global Audit Innovation Leader, audit leader far into the future. For example, a DISRUPTION: LEADING raise the bar for the entire profession. “Deloitte will have implemented DA on more than 80,000 explains. “Continuous monitoring can also reduce dedicated Deloitte U.S. audit innovation team, takes great pride in being a trusted audit provider seasonal fluctuations, ultimately helping avoid composed of subject-matter experts with diverse THE PACK engagements worldwide. worldwide,” says Carlos Sabater, Deloitte Global year-end crunch points.” skills and specialties, is helping drive auditAudit Leader. “Our commitment to quality and The proliferation of information and evolving service innovation and influence the future of nurturing a culture of innovation remains relentless. technologies are reshaping the landscape for A more personal touch the profession. The team is challenging current This is fundamental not only to the Deloitte financial reporting and analysis. Deloitte’s Beyond the technological advancements, DA audit-delivery mechanisms and exploring how LEADING TOGETHER brand, but also to every stakeholder that demands innovations in data analytics are providing reflects a quality transformation in both process to leverage technology to further enable quality confidence from the process.” powerful data mining and interrogation tools and culture. “Through our implementation of and effectiveness. “We will continue to invest in that can efficiently examine large data sets. These DA, we have seen a heightened awareness of innovation to transform the audit process, with Quality above all analyses help to rapidly identify trends and expose engagement risks, deeper member firm partner the goal of evolving the delivery of high-quality Audit quality is the shared number one priority anomalies and risks within and across audits. involvement throughout the audit, and an LEADING WITH INTEGRITY audits, and responding to the changing needs of for Deloitte. The DTTL Executive and member intensified focus on consistency of audit behaviors the capital markets,” says Cathy Engelbert, Audit firm leaders from across the network actively “We already capture a tremendous amount of data and processes,” says Cindy Hook, Deloitte Australia Leader, Deloitte & Touche LLP (Deloitte U.S.). collaborate on a range of measures and programs from each engagement, and now with analytics, Audit Leader. “This is providing an improved to enhance audit quality and transform audit we are starting to analyze the data further to experience for our clients and our people.” “More and more clients are telling us that our delivery. Deloitte Global established an Audit uncover insights that can drive decision making,” audit approach and capabilities were the deciding Quality Board comprising of senior member explains Cal Buss, Deloitte Global Audit Quality Deloitte member firms continue to enrich the factors in choosing Deloitte. They appreciate our firm audit quality representatives to drive and Transformation Leader. “The adoption of DA audit with enhanced service delivery and reporting technology, the way we leverage data, the personal implementation of audit quality enablers and and the growth of analytics have opened the door capabilities that bring superior insights while involvement of our member firm partners, and the monitor progress. Member firms are also piloting to substantial advancements in both quality and maintaining an absolute focus on quality. These visible commitment Deloitte is making to improve extended audit reports with a number of clients innovation.” advances allow auditors to focus on areas of the value and quality of the audit,” Sabater says. to provide valuable additional commentary on the importance to the client, as well as risk areas. “The best part is, we are just beginning to scratch Audit teams are leveraging these capabilities to the surface of what the audit can be.” 15 Market immersion program a gateway to China Opening doors for multinational clients Deloitte named a leader in Asia Pacific in Business Consulting Services by IDC MarketScape HOME Source: IDC MarketScape: Asia/Pacific Business Consulting Services 2014 Vendor Assessment by Cushing Anderson, Mayur Sahni and Takuya Uemura, February 2014, IDC #246682 EXECUTIVE MESSAGE Download Deloitte’s competitiveness report GLOBAL LEADER on China that identifies FOR CLIENTS key industry sectors that will help power the nation’s “next wave” of Putting a global tech leader’s sales sustainable growth. on track Photo credit: Ran Ding, Deloitte China Clients first—providing what they need Serving clients with global footprints requires a Deloitte named a leader deep knowledge of their industry sectors and in Business Intelligence Quality and innovation the markets in which they conduct business. To Services in Asia Pacific by Market immersion program, a cultivate this understanding and foster a high level Forrester gateway to China of service for cross-border businesses between the Source: Forrester Research, Inc., The Forrester Wave™: United States and China, Deloitte U.S.’s Chinese Business Intelligence Service Providers In Asia Pacific, Q4 Services Group initiated the China Link Industry 2013 World-class leaders, Deloitte Program (CLIP) in 2011. professionals at work The program brings together Deloitte’s senior Financial growth across emerging client services partners from around the world on markets a week-long immersion program in China. Partners gain a first-person perspective on China’s everchanging business environment through meetings and exchanges with multinational clients, market DISRUPTION: LEADING insiders, industry leaders, and other business and government luminaries. THE PACK “The CLIP lets Deloitte partners view and engage China Link Industry Program – Deloitte retail and distribution sector leaders in May 2014. China from various vantage points, the same way their clients would. They are exposed to emerging LEADING TOGETHER trends, micro-industry insights, and issues that Member firm clients also benefit from the program. During the years that followed, Deloitte partners multinational clients are facing in China,” says Chris “I was invited to talk to a group of senior Deloitte engaged Zwisler and others at Cardinal Health in Cooper, Partner, Audit & Enterprise Risk Services partners in Shanghai back in 2011 during their multiple discussions around their China business (Deloitte U.S.) and Americas Leader, Deloitte [CLIP] trip about the pharmaceutical market in strategies and to share fresh multidisciplinary Chinese Services Group. “Just as importantly, China,” recalls Eric Zwisler, chairman of Cardinal insights that helped deliver business value to LEADING WITH INTEGRITY through interaction and exchanges with each other Health China. “I was impressed with the dedication Cardinal Health. The CLIP meeting and the and with their China firm colleagues, the CLIP helps to the China market these partners demonstrated relationship that grew as a result helped distinguish our global team connect and collaborate more and the global expertise represented around the Deloitte from its competitors. “I felt that Deloitte effectively in serving global clients.” table.” can certainly serve us in China, or anywhere in the world,” Zwisler says. “When we were looking for expertise to help with a recent project, Deloitte was the obvious leading choice.” 16 World-class leaders, Deloitte’s professionals at work Talent delivers quality and impact to clients Deloitte named a vanguard leader in Human Capital Strategy by Kennedy HOME Source: Kennedy Consulting Research & Advisory; Human Capital Strategy Consulting; Kennedy Consulting Research & Advisory estimates. © 2013 Kennedy Information, LLC. Reproduced under license. EXECUTIVE MESSAGE Deloitte ranked #1 on DiversityInc’s Top 10 GLOBAL LEADER List for Global Diversity FOR CLIENTS Putting a global tech leader’s sales Deloitte named on track a global leader in Clients first—providing what they HR Transformation need Consulting by Kennedy Reputation. Innovation. Global reach. opportunities to do meaningful work and to grow, labs” that provide an environment for clients and learn, and lead at every point in their careers. That’s staff to collaborate on complex business problems Source: Kennedy Consulting Research & Advisory; HR Quality and innovation Clients choose Deloitte for a number of reasons, Transformation Consulting Market; Kennedy Consulting research shows. But, at the core of our capability is what our member firms offer today, and that’s why and devise innovative solutions. Research & Advisory estimates. © 2013 Kennedy we’re optimistic about Deloitte’s future.” Information, LLC. Reproduced under license. Market immersion program, a our talent. Our people have built Deloitte’s credibility “We are investing in world-class leaders to serve gateway to China through the services member firms provide clients Developing next generation leaders the best clients in the most important markets in and the impact they make on society. Strong leaders are the driving force behind the the world with quality and impact. In turn, they will World-class leaders, Deloitte “Deloitte is a leader among its peers because our Deloitte talent experience. As Deloitte’s businesses attract the best professionals, help them to develop Watch Global CEO professionals at work member firms have many of the best people in have grown around the world, the network their unique strengths and passions, and inspire Barry Salzberg share his the professional services industry,” says Margot has continued to recruit and develop the next them to deliver outstanding service to clients,” views on how Deloitte Financial growth across emerging Thom, Deloitte Global Talent Leader. “Our member generation of global leaders, preparing them Thom says. supports its professionals in making markets firms have attracted this talent because they offer to anticipate and tackle clients’ most complex an impact that matters. International experience interesting, diverse, and flexible assignments; the domestic and international challenges. Deloitte not only has the best leaders and talent, ability to interact with the best clients globally; Deloitte continues to champion leader but also is able to position people where clients excellent professional development and leadership DISRUPTION: LEADING development by executing on its Deloitte University need them most. “Deloitte must be agile in how opportunities; and avenues to make meaningful (DU) strategy. During the past fiscal year, close to we move our member firm leaders and people THE PACK contributions to the communities in which our 63,000 Deloitte professionals from 81 countries to the right places at the right time to provide professionals live and work.” across all regions participated in DU programs seamless service to clients no matter where they Qualities like these will grow in importance for the led by more than 1,000 member firm partners are based,” says Ellen Stafford-Sigg, Principal, Deloitte network as the demand for highly skilled and directors. This leader-led approach to the Health Care & Life Sciences, Deloitte Consulting LLP LEADING TOGETHER talent continues to climb—while the pool of people DU curriculum encourages the sharing of diverse (Deloitte U.S.). with the critical skills member firm clients value experiences and helps pass along the strengths of our culture from one generation of leaders to International experience at Deloitte means more most continues to shrink across the globe. Shifting the next. than just a job in another part of the world. demographics, technology, and globalization all It includes everything from an international LEADING WITH INTEGRITY contribute to this challenge, which is compounded In December 2013, Deloitte expanded Deloitte assignment in or transfer to another country, shortby a need to motivate and prepare the millennial University’s reach by launching DU EMEA and long-term international business travel, and generation to lead organizations. (Europe, the Middle East, and Africa) and DU: The working on or managing international projects and “These issues will accelerate in the years to come, Leadership Center in India. “The new facilities teams. Last year, nearly 6,000 mobility assignments so Deloitte’s differentiation is critical to attracting and our global curriculum demonstrate Deloitte’s helped Deloitte professionals develop cultural the best talent that will, in turn, allow our member commitment to developing professionals in these understanding, as well as language, networking, Global Internship Program: Students from Deloitte U.S. firms to continue delivering outstanding value,” regions, providing them with the leadership and and management skills. and Deloitte Brazil traveled to South Africa to gain Thom explains. “People want the flexibility to advisory skills to better serve clients on both a local an authentic experience of working for Deloitte, and create their own career and life experiences. They and global level,” says Jorrit Volkers, Dean, Deloitte exposure to our business issues, people, and culture. want to be part of a collaborative global network University EMEA and Partner, Deloitte Netherlands. of talented people. And they want unlimited The DU EMEA facility also houses “client experience 17 The benefits of such assignments are especially MOBILITY: INTERNATIONAL ASSIGNMENTS HOME apparent among teams like Deloitte’s Japanese Deloitte named a FY2014 +2% leader in Leadership 5,898 Services Group (JSG), which works with Japanese clients overseas. Thirty percent of partners in Development Consulting Japan have expatriate experience, along with the AVERAGE OF MOBILITY CEO, deputy CEO, and CFO. Professionals with by Kennedy OPPORTUNITIES AVAILABLE EXECUTIVE MESSAGE 650/DAY global mobility experiences develop and enhance Source: Kennedy Consulting Research & Advisory; Leadership Development Consulting Market 2013; FY2013 +8% communication, coordination, and management 5,795 Kennedy Consulting Research & Advisory estimates. skills, as well as global networks, to be able to © 2013 Kennedy Information, LLC. Reproduced under better serve global clients and effectively carry out license. GLOBAL LEADER global projects. FOR CLIENTS DELOITTE SERVES CLIENTS International experience is found at all levels in FY2012 +21% Deloitte has also been Putting a global tech leader’s sales 5,356 IN MORE THAN 150 the organization, from member firm partners to recognized for its on track interns who are groomed to become Deloitte’s next generation of professionals. Our Global record of diversity and Clients first—providing what they Internship Program (GIP) immerses top students inclusion by several other COUNTRIES AND TERRITORIES need in new cultures and languages and gives them a organizations, including: taste of the international experience that awaits Note: Global figures are aggregated across DTTL and its member firms. Quality and innovation • FORTUNE’s 100 Best Companies to Work For® them in their careers. “Preparing future talent for LEARNING 2014 list for the 15th year the global, virtual workplace is critical to for the Market immersion program, a 172,000 48,000+ future of our society and business,” says James • 2013 Working Mother 100 Best Companies® gateway to China Brock, Americas Pursuit Center Leader, Deloitte LLP top 10 for the fourth year and the 19th (Deloitte U.S.). “Through the GIP, member firms not consecutive year on the list World-class leaders, Deloitte only get the benefit of some incredibly bright new • 2013 Working Mother 25 Best Companies VIEWS OF DELOITTE SPECIFIC LEARNING VIDEOS DIGITAL BOOKS AND ABSTRACTS AVAILABLE professionals at work ideas and opinions on some of the challenges that for Multicultural Women top 10 for the 68,000+ 2,000+ matter the most to our clients, but coaching and fourth year and the seventh consecutive Financial growth across emerging sponsoring the interns helps DTTL member firm year on the list markets people develop the capabilities required to lead the future workforce.” • Human Rights Campaign® (HRC) 2014 “Best Places to Work” UNIQUE ATTENDEES ACROSS 5,600+ DIGITAL LEARNING COURSES AVAILABLE Flexible, tailored careers VIRTUAL CLASSROOM SESSIONS IN 23 LANGUAGES OTHER THAN ENGLISH Technology has enabled a truly global talent Deloitte’s varied work and talent models allow DISRUPTION: LEADING pool, connecting us globally and creating greater both leaders and practitioners to create tailored THE PACK flexibility in how Deloitte serves clients and meets career experiences that connect their personal the needs of talent, no matter where our people and professional aspirations. “We know this is an GLOBAL CAREERS WEBSITE are located. “By 2020, half of the private workforce important consideration, especially among the in the U.S. could be independent,” explains Jennifer newer generation of talent,” says Jason Winkler, AVERAGE NUMBER OF JOBS AVAILABLE LEADING TOGETHER Steinmann, Chief Talent Officer and Deputy Managing Partner, Talent, Deloitte Canada. 14K/DAY CEO, Deloitte & Touche LLP (Deloitte U.S.). “We “Today’s professionals not only want to belong to must be innovative in how we encourage and an organization that has a purpose beyond profit, enable opportunities for open collaboration with but they also want opportunities to get involved individuals who sit outside of the organization.” LEADING WITH INTEGRITY in fulfilling initiatives that make a meaningful NUMBER OF VISITS TO difference. By providing this kind of appealing APPLICATIONS WEBSITE For those who choose more traditional career 1.9M 14.5M paths, the Deloitte talent experience fosters and talent experience, we will attract the people we celebrates an inclusive workplace without barriers. need to be the best.” Member firm inclusion efforts continue to focus on factors—including gender, ethnicity, age, and disabilities—that are relevant in their markets and important to clients that increasingly demand multidimensional perspectives and solutions. Note: Global figures are aggregated across DTTL and its member firms. 18 Financial growth across emerging markets Leading from strategy to implementation Deloitte ranked #1 globally in Life Sciences Sector Consulting by Kennedy HOME Source: Kennedy Consulting Research & Advisory; Consulting to the Life Sciences Sector, 2012. © 2012 Kennedy Information, LLC. Reproduced under license. EXECUTIVE MESSAGE Watch Ellen StaffordSigg, Principal, Health Care & Life GLOBAL LEADER Sciences, Deloitte Consulting LLP FOR CLIENTS (Deloitte U.S.), talk about what it takes to be a world-class business. Putting a global tech leader’s sales on track Photo credit: Hele Liu Xiang He, Deloitte China Clients first—providing what they Deloitte named need When a leading global pharmaceutical company Regional implementations began with Latin For Deloitte’s pharmaceutical client, its longa global leader in embarked on a journey to transform its finance America in 2013, followed by Eastern Europe, running experience with Consulting, AERS Financial Transformation Quality and innovation operation in emerging markets, it didn’t have to Russia, and Asia-Pacific in 2014. Implementations Advisory, Tax, and Financial Advisory Services was Consulting Services by Market immersion program, a look far for strategy, design, and implementation in Africa and the Middle East will happen in 2015. a driving factor in its decision to trust Deloitte Kennedy gateway to China support. The company and Deloitte have been Regional rollouts were supported by Deloitte with this project. “Deloitte’s track record with our Source: Kennedy Consulting Research & Advisory; working together through a period of extraordinary member firms from 13 countries, including company gave us the confidence to involve them Finance Management Consulting Marketplace 2011change during the past five years, with Deloitte Argentina, Brazil, Costa Rica, Mexico, Uruguay, in every aspect of this transformation program,” 2014. © 2011 Kennedy Information, LLC. Reproduced World-class leaders, Deloitte playing a critical role in nearly all aspects of its Russia, Ireland, the Czech Republic, Greece, Poland, explains one client finance vice president and under license professionals at work clients’ mergers and acquisitions, restructuring, and China, and Singapore. Deloitte’s Global Finance project sponsor. “They’re helping us fundamentally finance transformation activities. Transformation and Service Delivery Transformation change the way that our finance function operates Financial growth across teams worked together to effectively marshal in emerging markets, expand our shared-service emerging markets “The company’s leaders recognized the the right resources to deploy at the right times in coverage to many new markets, drive cost savings, Watch Caleb organization could support growth more efficiently the right locations, delivering a seamless, global and implement flawlessly.” Longenberger, Senior and effectively in Latin America, Eastern Europe, program for the client. Manager, M&A and Africa, the Middle East, and the Asia Pacific Restructuring Services, Deloitte DISRUPTION: LEADING region,” explains Ellen Stafford-Sigg, Principal, Solving the most complex challenges Health Care & Life Sciences, Deloitte Consulting Consulting LLP (Deloitte U.S.), THE PACK Deloitte’s industry depth, global reach, and ability LLP (Deloitte U.S.). “The Deloitte Consulting U.S. to solve clients’ most complex problems continue discuss how he builds relationships team helped the client seize that opportunity by to differentiate it from traditional strategy and to deliver globally for this developing a comprehensive global operating technology consulting networks. “Deloitte’s pharmaceutical client and future model strategy—enabled by shared services—and Consulting businesses are committed to being clients. LEADING TOGETHER creating a global design, multiyear implementation the best at providing comprehensive solutions roadmap, and methodology.” and lasting impact for clients, from strategy to implementation,” says John Kerr, Deloitte Global Consulting Leader. “We serve a majority of the Deloitte named a leader LEADING WITH INTEGRITY Those tools are making it possible for world’s largest and most global companies. To in Risk Consulting to the pharmaceutical giant to transform address the sophisticated challenges they face, the healthcare sector by its finance operating model and our member firms form global teams. These teams Kennedy include people who understand and live in their key expand its finance shared-service Source: Kennedy Consulting Research & Advisory; Risk markets, coupled with detailed subject-matter and Consulting to Healthcare Sectors 2014. © 2014 Kennedy capabilities across 82 of its most industry specialists from our global network, no Information, LLC. Reproduced under license. critical, emerging markets. matter where those experts are based. Our people deliver seamlessly to meet the clients’ needs.” 19 Disruption: Leading the pack HOME Innovation lies at the heart of everything Deloitte does—in our services, how we develop our people, and our role in society. We invest in ideas and technologies that disrupt markets, transform careers, and, by turning EXECUTIVE MESSAGE knowledge into power, fuel economic progress and sustainable social change. Watch Global CEO Barry Salzberg share his views on how GLOBAL LEADER Deloitte is making an impact that matters to clients. FOR CLIENTS DISRUPTION: LEADING THE PACK Data analytics lead to transformative, decisive action Leading cyber risk management in a smaller, more perilous world Harnessing digital disruption to inspire engagement, preference, loyalty Anticipate to succeed—leading predictive analytics Connecting clients with the world’s brightest minds LEADING TOGETHER LEADING WITH INTEGRITY 20 Data analytics lead to transformative, decisive action Deloitte pioneers Deloitte named a global leader in Analytics IT Consulting by Kennedy Source: Kennedy Consulting Research & Advisory; HOME IT Consulting: Analytics 2014. © 2014 Kennedy Information, LLC. Reproduced under license. EXECUTIVE MESSAGE Watch Greg Swinehart, U.S. and Americas Analytics Service Area Leader, Deloitte Financial Advisory GLOBAL LEADER Services LLP (Deloitte U.S.), share FOR CLIENTS his views on how Deloitte makes the most of big data, while safeguarding client confidentiality. DISRUPTION: LEADING THE PACK It’s been more than four centuries since Francis Revolutionizing health care research “Collaborative research, enabled by nextDeloitte named a Data analytics lead to Bacon wrote the words, “ipsa scientia potestas generation tools like OutcomesMiner, makes it Launched in February 2014, ConvergeHEALTH leader for worldwide transformative, decisive action est,” or, “knowledge itself is power.” by Deloitte is a business unit that supports possible to conduct real world research and insights into patient care,” says Dr. Shailja Dixit, Executive Enterprise Performance the data-driven transformation of health care. Leading cyber risk management in The English philosopher, scientist, and statesman ConvergeHEALTH is part of a US$150-200 million Director, Health Economics and Outcomes for Management Business a smaller, more perilous world could not possibly have comprehended the sheer Actavis Pharmaceuticals. “We believe working with Consulting by IDC investment Deloitte Consulting LLP (Deloitte U.S.) amount of data that is collected, stored, and accessible today. But, he surely would appreciate is making in life sciences and health care analytics, ConvergeHEALTH and others will provide unique MarketScape Harnessing digital disruption to including new analytics platforms, informatics insights into respiratory disease, in particular, inspire engagement, preference, the bold and innovative ways Deloitte converts leading to appropriate treatment and better Source: IDC MarketScape: Worldwide Enterprise data into knowledge and understanding into services, and talent. Performance Management Business Consulting Services loyalty patient outcomes.” In April 2014, ConvergeHEALTH 2014 Vendor Assessment by Cushing Anderson, July solutions for its clients. “With the shift toward value-based reimbursement announced a multiyear collaboration with Actavis. 2014, IDC #249463 Anticipate to succeed—leading and personalized health care, clients face new “We have a differentiated, unbiased approach Exposing tax fraud predictive analytics challenges that fundamentally change the way to analytics that turns everyday information into they operate,” says Brett Davis, Principal, Deloitte Deloitte teams in the Netherlands and the U.S. have useful and actionable insights for decision makers,” Consulting LLP (Deloitte U.S.) and General Manager been working with tax-administration authorities in Watch Samir Hans, Connecting clients with the world’s says Tim Phillipps, Deloitte Global Leader, Deloitte Principal, Deloitte brightest minds of ConvergeHEALTH. “They need new solutions those countries to develop advanced analytics that Analytics. “Deloitte practitioners’ forensic and risk that combine strategy and transformational services reduce tax fraud in the area of income allowance. Transactions and management backgrounds help assess the veracity and trustworthiness of data, and our decentralized with data, content, analytics, and insights to create Using rules-based monitoring, predictive modeling, Business Analytics LLP (Deloitte new business and operating models.” and social networking analytics, tax agencies U.S.), discuss the training that has delivery model and integrated services offerings LEADING TOGETHER will be able to uncover hidden relationships that differentiate us in this emerging, sophisticated field.” An innovative tool now being used to create expose organized fraud rings. They can also helped him serve clients better, Clients of Deloitte member firms around the globe those solutions, OutcomesMiner, was launched by pinpoint suspicious tax-return patterns, prioritize and how he shares learnings and have access to a host of lightweight, challengeDeloitte Consulting LLP (Deloitte U.S.) in 2013 in and effectively assign fraud cases, and recognize leading practices with colleagues collaboration with industry leader Intermountain around the world. and industry-focused analytics tools that can help Healthcare. OutcomesMiner helps researchers, historical behaviors that identify repeat offenders. LEADING WITH INTEGRITY clients enhance patient care, weed out fraud, spot pharmaceutical, and medical device companies “In the U.S., we have assisted in screening more emerging trends, improve financial performance, conduct comparative effectiveness research and than 100 million tax returns, leveraging more and perform a variety of other critical analyses that bring new therapies to market faster. than 45 billion current and historical elements of can give their organizations an edge in the market. taxpayer data,” explains Greg Swinehart, U.S. and Here are just a few, recent examples of how Deloitte Americas Analytics Service Area Leader, Deloitte member firm teams coupled industry knowledge Financial Advisory Services LLP (Deloitte U.S.). with analytics to give their clients an edge. “The new U.S. system has identified suspicious tax returns at a rate significantly greater than the legacy system with fewer false positives and provides new advanced analytics capabilities.” 21 Similar results were achieved in the Netherlands, Creating long-term financial insights HOME where Deloitte teams were able to improve The majority of financial performance management Deloitte is named the the false-positive ratio in the fraud workflow and analytics solutions provide historical and 2014 Americas Tax Policy dramatically, to less than 5 percent. “There is a projected financial data with an emphasis on Firm of the Year by the lot of academic literature on the new analytics revenue, expense, and capital investment. What possibilities, and we receive a lot of presentations International Tax Review EXECUTIVE MESSAGE they don’t provide are insights regarding cash flow on that topic from different vendors, but Deloitte generation and long-term liquidity. iHeartMedia was the only one able to bring it to life,” says a (formerly Clear Channel Communications), the senior executive from the Dutch revenue service. largest radio broadcaster and outdoor advertiser Download Deloitte in the U.S., sought to expand beyond traditional Analytics: Three-Minute GLOBAL LEADER Generating economic progress financial performance analytics with the Guides Series for quick, FOR CLIENTS As part of the UK government’s initiatives to harness the full benefits of public-sector development of an enterprise-wide profit and cash actionable insights. flow forecasting solution. information, Deloitte UK carried out a groundbreaking study to quantify the size of the Working with Deloitte Consulting LLP (Deloitte U.S.) market and identify the challenges to achieving its and Deloitte Canada, the company—which also Deloitte named a leader in Global DISRUPTION: LEADING full potential. Deloitte UK’s analysis fed into the has an outdoor advertising presence in Asia, Risk Management Consulting THE PACK Shakespeare Review, an independent analysis of Australia, Europe, and Latin America—designed Services by Gartner public sector information, put together by YouGov and implemented a global consolidated financial Gartner does not endorse any vendor, product or service Data analytics lead to CEO Stephan Shakespeare. model integrating both profitability and cash flow depicted in its research publications, and does not advise transformative, decisive action through sophisticated models mimicking accrual technology users to select only those vendors with the The 2013 report, which received extensive highest ratings or other designation. Gartner research Leading cyber risk management in and cash transactions. Layered with sensitivity and publications consist of the opinions of Gartner’s research media attention, calls for creating a national a smaller, more perilous world scenario capabilities, iHeartMedia is now able to organization and should not be construed as statements data strategy that is actionable and auditable, of fact. Gartner disclaims all warranties, expressed or provide valuable insights into financial performance and offers examples of how data can be used to implied, with respect to this research, including any Harnessing digital disruption to impacts on long-term liquidity. warranties of merchantability or fitness for a particular generate economic growth and social progress. inspire engagement, preference, purpose. Source: Gartner, Magic Quadrant for Global “Since the report’s publication, Deloitte’s analysis Risk Management Consulting Services, 2014 loyalty continues to be widely quoted and has contributed to subsequent initiatives around public sector Anticipate to succeed—leading information,” says Costi Perricos, Public Sector predictive analytics Analytics Leader, Deloitte UK. “We were honored to have a role in demonstrating the power of data Connecting clients with the world’s to create public good.” brightest minds LEADING TOGETHER LEADING WITH INTEGRITY 22 Leading cyber risk management in a smaller, more perilous world A secure, vigilant, and resilient approach Deloitte named a global leader in Cyber Security Consulting by Kennedy Source: Kennedy Consulting Research & Advisory; Cyber HOME Security Consulting 2013; Kennedy Consulting Research & Advisory estimates. © 2013 Kennedy Information LLC, Reproduced under license. EXECUTIVE MESSAGE Watch Kelly Bissell, Deloitte Global Cyber Security Leader, talk GLOBAL LEADER about why he and clients choose FOR CLIENTS Deloitte in the cyber space. Photo credit: Joyce Sau Yan Tse, Deloitte China Deloitte named a leader DISRUPTION: LEADING in Information Security THE PACK Throughout most of history, crime has been a local What distinguishes Deloitte, according to DeZabala, “The Czech situation is similar to hundreds that Services Consulting by Forrester Data analytics lead to phenomenon, perpetrated by individuals or groups is member firms’ abilities to bring the cyber Deloitte encounters each year in countries around transformative, decisive action in fairly concentrated areas. Today, the paradigm element and a deep regulatory understanding the world, and we fully expect those numbers to Source: Forrester Research, Inc., The Forrester Wave : TM Information Security Consulting Services Q1 2013”, Ed has changed. It’s a “smaller” world, thanks to into an integrated business risk management go up as cyber threats become more numerous Ferrara and Andrew Rose, February 1, 2013 Leading cyber risk management technology. Many banks in New York, London, and approach. “Deloitte professionals support their and sophisticated,” DeZabala says. “Organizations in a smaller, more perilous world other cities are likely to be more concerned about clients, from their senior leaders all the way to will continue to leverage and create technical being infiltrated by hackers located halfway around their hands-on cyber risk specialists, in establishing advances. Today, we see it in the adoption of Harnessing digital disruption to the world than they are about having branch programs attuned to their particular business cloud computing, the pace of mobile application Watch Ted DeZabala, inspire engagement, preference, offices robbed in person. risks, risk appetites, and investment levels,” he development, and the proliferation of ‘smart’ Deloitte Global Cyber loyalty “The Internet is a primary terrain for reaching says. “Other companies talk about aligning IT devices. Tomorrow, it will be things we haven’t Risk Leader, share his security with the business, but Deloitte’s ability imagined yet. But, Deloitte helps clients anticipate perspectives on cybercrime, and Anticipate to succeed—leading farther, getting things done faster, and getting to combine risk management, threat awareness, the cyber risks on the horizon and be prepared to smarter,” says Ted DeZabala, Deloitte Global Cyber how Deloitte helps clients prepare, predictive analytics and deep knowledge of IT security puts us in meet them.” Risk Services Leader. “The dramatic increase in a leading position to help clients through this protect, and recover from cyber Connecting clients with the world’s cybercrime mirrors the innovations that public and transformation.” Staying a step ahead attacks. private organizations have driven to grow, perform, brightest minds Deloitte remains on the leading edge of worldwide compete, and serve their constituents.” A globally coordinated effort approaches to cyber risk thanks, in part, to Deloitte member firms worldwide have contributed its global Cyber Security Operations Centers When Deloitte member firms’ Security and Privacy to the ongoing development of Cyber Risk Services’ (CyberSOC) and member firms’ Cyber Intelligence Deloitte wins the practices became Cyber Risk Services in 2014, portfolio of offerings, and have expanded their Centers (CIC). “Our CyberSOCs and CICs provide Global Strategic LEADING TOGETHER it was more than a name change; it signaled a rosters of skilled talent to meet the needs of the multinational threat awareness that supports Partner Excellence new dialogue and approach to the problem. “The litany of breaches this past year shows that market. Their actions support Deloitte’s overall Deloitte’s efforts to tailor solutions that are specific Awards—Innovation sometimes, no matter how good clients’ defenses ability to serve clients both locally and in joint to industries and geographies,” DeZabala explains. from Symantec for are, the attackers will succeed,” DeZabala says. “To efforts across national boundaries. The CyberSOC-CERT (Computer Emergency collaboration in the area LEADING WITH INTEGRITY minimize damage to their brands, to fulfill their This collaboration and new cyber risk approach was Response Team) Academy, a high-performance of cyber risk. privacy obligations, to protect their valuations, apparent when a series of serious malware attacks cyber-training platform designed for Deloitte and sometimes even to protect public safety, in the Czech Republic in 2013 targeted major professionals and clients worldwide, offers some organizations need to get better at knowing when Czech banks, including a client of Czech Republic of the most valued courses, workshops and something bad is happening—and be able to firm. Deloitte cyber risk professionals in the Czech “white hat hack labs” available. The Academy recover operations when an attack does occur. Republic, Hungary, Netherlands, and Spain joined team includes Deloitte’s most skilled cyber Deloitte helps clients be not only secure, but also forces to help the client effectively handle the risk professionals, as well as other technology vigilant and resilient.” ongoing threat, recover from prior attacks, create a professionals who specialize in the IT industry’s malware cybersecurity action plan, and perform a most-adopted products. quality assessment of organizational and technical defense measures. 23 In addition to its work with clients, Deloitte also End-to-end risk solutions HOME is sought out by organizations like the Securities Cyber risk is a core service area in Deloitte’s Deloitte ranked #1 globally in Industry and Financial Markets Association (SIFMA) Enterprise Risk Services (ERS) business. Deloitte’s in the U.S., which selected Deloitte & Touche LLP Security Consulting by Gartner ERS practice is a global leader in helping clients (Deloitte U.S.) to participate in “Quantum Dawn 2,” address their most complex risk issues by delivering Gartner does not endorse any vendor, product or service one of the most comprehensive cyber crisis depicted in its research publications, and does not advise EXECUTIVE MESSAGE end-to-end integrated risk solutions. It focuses technology users to select only those vendors with the simulations ever conducted. Organized in 2013 by on highly regulated, high-growth industries and highest ratings or other designation. Gartner research SIFMA, along with major financial institutions and sectors that face significant market risks. To remain publications consist of the opinions of Gartner’s research government agencies, the simulation involved a a global leader in cyber and other risk services, in organization and should not be construed as statements series of systemic cyber attacks that attempted to addition to training and certifying its professionals, of fact. Gartner disclaims all warranties, expressed or GLOBAL LEADER implied, with respect to this research, including any disrupt trading in U.S. equities markets. ERS enhanced its capabilities through strategic warranties of merchantability or fitness for a particular FOR CLIENTS acquisitions during the past year: purpose. Source: Gartner, Market Share Analysis: Security Consulting, Worldwide, 2013, Jacqueline Heng, “We approached Deloitte U.S.’s • Deloitte Australia quadrupled its number of Lawrence Pingree, 15 April, 2014. Cyber Risk Services group to lead cyber risk specialists with the acquisition of DISRUPTION: LEADING The Brief Group, one of the country’s leading the observation and subsequent authorities in optimizing clients’ health and THE PACK reporting of the simulation because safety management; Watch “Cyber Security: of its leadership position in the Evolved,” the awardData analytics lead to cybersecurity space,” • Deloitte Canada acquired Urgentis Digital Crisis winning video produced transformative, decisive action Solutions Inc., a firm that helps companies prepare for and respond to cyber attacks; by the Deloitte UK cyber – Karl Schimmeck, Vice President of Financial Services, team. Leading cyber risk management SIFMA • Deloitte Denmark bought MN Security, a in a smaller, more perilous world company recognized for its SAP security Deloitte U.S.’s cyber risk professionals assisted consulting. The move makes the Danish firm Harnessing digital disruption to SIFMA during the development of the test one of Scandinavia’s largest SAP consulting Deloitte firm wins inspire engagement, preference, and placed observers in key cities while it was companies; and “Security Partner of loyalty conducted. Deloitte U.S. also produced an after• Deloitte U.S. brought into the fold a company the Year” Award from Anticipate to succeed—leading actions report to offer recommendations around CA Technologies called Vigilant, Inc., which specializes in threat predictive analytics ways to improve sector-wide responses to cyber intelligence, contextual awareness, and cyber events and considerations for further protecting the risk detection. Connecting clients with the world’s financial services infrastructure. brightest minds “Growing awareness of cyber threats has sometimes led to growing fear. It’s Deloitte’s job to take the fear out of addressing cyber risk,” DeZabala says. “Today’s organizations can’t stop innovating. We can bring them pragmatic, realistic LEADING TOGETHER ways of integrating the management of cyber risk into their forward-looking strategies. We’re proud of our network’s evolution this year, and there’s more to come.” LEADING WITH INTEGRITY 24 Harnessing digital disruption to inspire engagement, preference, loyalty Reinventing client and customer interactions Deloitte named a global leader in Digital Strategy Consulting by Kennedy HOME Source: Kennedy Consulting Research & Advisory; Digital Strategy Consulting; Kennedy Consulting Research & Advisory estimates. © 2013 Kennedy Information LLC, Reproduced under license. EXECUTIVE MESSAGE Check out the 2013 Technology Fast 500 winners. GLOBAL LEADER These tech companies grew the fastest, FOR CLIENTS based on percentage revenue growth over five (EMEA and North America) or three (Asia Pacific) years. DISRUPTION: LEADING THE PACK Deloitte named a global When the internal efforts of a leading leader in Mobility IT Data analytics lead to manufacturer and distributor of life science Strategy Consulting by transformative, decisive action research and clinical diagnostic products needed a boost in developing a more-effective e-commerce Kennedy Leading cyber risk management in platform, it turned to Deloitte Consulting LLP Source: Kennedy Consulting Research & Advisory; IT a smaller, more perilous world (Deloitte U.S.) to incorporate e-commerce into Strategy Consulting: Mobile Technologies; Kennedy its marketing and sales channels. “The client Consulting Research & Advisory estimates. © 2013 Kennedy Information, LLC. Reproduced under license Harnessing digital disruption to wanted a stronger online presence to be more inspire engagement, preference, competitive and satisfy customers’ requirements. loyalty They decided an informed, outside perspective could help them take their work to the next level,” Anticipate to succeed—leading explains John Maddalon, Life Sciences Partner, predictive analytics Deloitte Services—Market Development, Deloitte Deloitte Digital team from Deloitte Japan Consulting LLP (Deloitte U.S.). Connecting clients with the world’s Deloitte’s team developed a business case, an An agency and consultancy 2013. “We wanted to make the purchase of • A multi-platform digital solution that helped brightest minds online strategy, and a three-year Web platform Royston Seaward, Partner, Digital Proposition, small business insurance as easy as downloading Fox Sports stream the Super Bowl live across roadmap. The team ultimately delivered four major Deloitte UK, believes Deloitte has an advantage a new song,” says Greg Tacchetti, AssureStart’s desktops, tablets and mobile devices. More releases to build the client’s e-commerce channel; providing digital solutions because it functions chief executive officer. “Deloitte Digital took the than a million viewers shifted from traditional internationalized all Web systems; and created as both an agency and a consultancy. “A digital challenge head on and the result speaks for itself.” television to online viewing, making the National LEADING TOGETHER competitive, state-of-the-art business-to-customer presence without an integrated digital strategy Football League’s championship game the • Aegon’s new Retiready digital service that (B2C) and business-to-business (B2B) capabilities is like having a fancy storefront with no business largest live, streamed sports event ever. allows UK consumers to determine their to serve more than 150 countries and territories. plan,” he says. “We combine leading digital financial readiness for retirement. It includes “Our unique combination of skills gives us the Deloitte continues to work with the client to extend and creative capabilities with the deep industry LEADING WITH INTEGRITY easy-to-understand tools and digital coaching insight needed to re-imagine and integrate the channel and increase sales. knowledge and experience Deloitte is known for. that let people take control of their futures. solutions that can create impact for Deloitte’s Deloitte member firms help clients bring a new “Aegon had a vision for a groundbreaking, Today, the client’s online revenue is up sharply. clients,” Seaward says. “It’s not enough for business vision to life and drive the bottom-line direct-to-consumer pension proposition that Half of its orders are placed online compared to businesses to ‘be digital.’ It’s about using digital results they need.” would provide customers a simple, reassuring, 20 percent before Deloitte’s involvement. And the technology to inspire engagement, preference, average order value has increased more than 25 Deloitte has used its powerful cross-member firm and engaging experience in a market where and loyalty.” percent. “When we got the opportunity to help, digital capabilities to deliver a variety of disruptive surveys show 93 percent of people are not we showed their leaders how Deloitte’s knowledge digital products for clients during the past year. ready for retirement,” says Sam Roddick, EMEA of the market, technical expertise, and project They included: Lead, Deloitte Digital, Deloitte UK. “With management discipline could help the company Deloitte Digital’s help, Aegon transformed their grow global online revenues in its B2C and B2B • An industry-first digital engagement platform concept into a market-disrupting reality in just markets,” Maddalon says. “The proof is in the for AssureStart, an online provider of business nine months.” results.” owner’s insurance policies launched in November 25 Anticipate to succeed—leading predictive analytics Critically important tool forecasts outcomes Deloitte named a global leader in Business Analytics Consulting and Systems Integration Services by HOME IDC MarketScape Source: IDC MarketScape: Worldwide Business Analytics Consulting and Systems Integration Services 2014 Vendor Assessment by Ali Zaidi, May 2014, IDC #246675 EXECUTIVE MESSAGE Watch Gabriel Rodriguez, Partner, GLOBAL LEADER Enterprise Risk Services, FOR CLIENTS Deloitte Canada, discuss the importance of Predictive Project Analytics to a project’s success or failure. DISRUPTION: LEADING THE PACK Will a project fail or succeed? To those who believe Data analytics lead to there’s no way to know before or even during a FAILURE TO PROPERLY EVALUATE A PROJECT Deloitte named a global transformative, decisive action project’s lifecycle, Deloitte suggests otherwise. CAN HAVE DEVASTATING EFFECTS leader, ranked #1, in Risk “By leveraging advanced analytics, we are able CHALLENGE SOLUTION Consulting in Financial Leading cyber risk management in Services by Kennedy a smaller, more perilous world to evaluate the likelihood that a project will be successful, and follow that with practical and actionable advice,” says Gabriel Rodriguez, Partner, 60% of companies experience The odds are worse as a project’s price tag increases: Predictive Project Analytics (PPA) provides the information you need Source: Kennedy Consulting Research & Advisory; Risk Consulting in Financial Services 2014. © 2014 Kennedy Harnessing digital disruption to to plan for success and to close the Enterprise Risk Services, Deloitte Canada. “We use project failure $750K-$3M Information, LLC. Reproduced under license inspire engagement, preference, gaps. PPA uses quantitative data and loyalty what we call Predictive Project Analytics (PPA), a project risk management capability that is unique and exclusive to Deloitte.” 44% fail to meet time, budget 38% Estimated success rate advanced analytics to: Analyze your project’s Deloitte named a global leader Anticipate to succeed—leading or quality goals strengths and weaknesses predictive analytics Combined with traditional management tools, in Business Analytics Services by PPA can help clients avert challenges not only with a particular project, but also entire programs or 15% $10M+ Keep your project on track Gartner Gartner does not endorse any vendor, product or service Connecting clients with the world’s brightest minds portfolios of projects. PPA gives Deloitte clients the ability to track, predict, and understand the fail to meet all of these objectives – or stop 2% Estimated success rate Reduce and contain costs Provide tangible ROI depicted in its research publications, and does not advise technology users to select only those vendors with the highest ratings or other designation. Gartner research projects altogether real-time status and risk of any project—from publications consist of the opinions of Gartner’s research organization and should not be construed as statements large-scale IT or business transformations and LEADING TOGETHER of fact. Gartner disclaims all warranties, expressed or integrations, to complex capital projects—and implied, with respect to this research, including any provide focused guidance for improving the “The transformation was a mega-project for then benchmarked against data from hundreds of warranties of merchantability or fitness for a particular likelihood of success at all stages of the project the company. The client’s own research gave it successfully completed projects using a powerful purpose. Source: Gartner Magic Quadrant for Business a 3 percent chance of finishing on time and on multi-variant algorithm, and provided specific Analytics Services, Worldwide, Alex Soejarto, Neil lifecycle. Chandler, 17 July, 2014. budget,” explains Neil White, Principal, Audit actions and recommendations for attaining the LEADING WITH INTEGRITY Achieving against the odds & Enterprise Risk Services, Deloitte Touche LLP level of control needed to meet the project’s PPA was invaluable during a recent engagement in (Deloitte U.S.). “So, their leadership came to delivery time, cost, and quality goals. The transformation ultimately was implemented which several Deloitte firms helped an international us because they knew Deloitte could act as a successfully, nine months ahead of schedule and sounding board and provide critical input for Predictive analytics supplemented traditional investment organization update and integrate its 15 percent under budget—a far cry from the complex programs. They also knew we could project risk-assessment methodologies to assess core IT systems. Those systems support business client’s initial estimates. “The paradigm within provide dedicated resources to support the program risks, business processes, and governance. processes across the enterprise, making business the corporation also changed from passive program throughout its lifecycle.” “PPA helped us make accurate predictions about disruption a major risk. Deloitte also was charged management to risk management,” Rodriguez the success or failure of specific sub-projects—and with improving the client’s key processes to reduce says, “allowing them to concentrate on managing Deloitte evaluated the organization’s there were many sub-projects with hundreds of operating risk and provide high-quality data for for superior long-term returns without taking transformation project by measuring the true twists and turns,” Rodriguez says. “PPA was critical improved decision making. unacceptable risks.” complexity of the task and assessing its execution to our ability to make adjustments along the way.” against 172 critical-factor variables. The team 26 Connecting clients with the world’s brightest minds Deloitte leads innovation Deloitte named a global leader in Innovation Strategy & New Product Development Consulting HOME by Kennedy Source: Kennedy Consulting Research & Advisory; Innovation Strategy & New Product Development Consulting 2013; Kennedy Consulting Research & EXECUTIVE MESSAGE Advisory estimates. © 2013 Kennedy Information, LLC. Reproduced under license. GLOBAL LEADER Creating social impact is a FOR CLIENTS priority for today’s young professionals, according to DTTL’s 2014 Millennial Survey. DISRUPTION: LEADING THE PACK If anyone other than Sergey Brin had been assigned “We’ve planned a multiyear series of events Deloitte receives Data analytics lead to to show prospective student Larry Page around the where Fortune 500 leaders will have access to an The Deloitte Greenhouse is an Salesforce.com Partner transformative, decisive action Stanford University campus, would Google exist expanded ecosystem of some of the world’s top advanced, immersive environment Innovation Award for today? If Michele Besso had not been “the best entrepreneurs, inventors, scientists, technologists, Leading cyber risk management in sounding board in Europe,” would Albert Einstein innovation strategists, and business thought designed to accelerate breakthroughs. Customer Company a smaller, more perilous world have remained an unsung patent office employee? leaders,” explains Marcus Shingles, Principal, Its labs, which include HIVEs (Highly Innovation Nobody can say with certainty how the world Deloitte Consulting LLP (Deloitte U.S.) and a leader Immersive Visual Environments), Harnessing digital disruption to might be different if certain creative relationships in Deloitte Consulting’s Innovation Group. “These combine behavioral methods, inspire engagement, preference, had not formed. But, this much is known: Brilliance sessions will give participating companies a broader loyalty rarely occurs in a vacuum. It is almost always lens to view the potential, nontraditional threats analytics, technology, and expert nurtured through collaboration. and opportunities their industries and businesses facilitation to create an experience Anticipate to succeed—leading Deloitte Consulting LLP (Deloitte U.S.) is connecting are facing, or will be facing.” that can propel clients to predictive analytics clients with some of the brightest minds in Shingles stresses, though, that the IPP is more extraordinary results. industry, education, and business through the than periodic conferences. “It’s a process, versus Connecting clients with the Innovation Partnership Program (IPP), a coalition of just an event, that gives members continuous world’s brightest minds organizations that aim to advance global economic exposure to the latest thinking and relationships A sweet new approach development and business commerce, while required to capitalize on innovation-driven business Before Hershey made its three-year commitment supporting a mission to help humanity solve its transformation and exponentially advancing to IPP, its C-suite leaders participated in a HIVE greatest challenges. technologies. This is about building a community session with Deloitte Consulting’s U.S. consumer LEADING TOGETHER and an extended ecosystem where executives can and industrial products team to discuss innovation The IPP is a multiyear alliance among XPRIZE, a sit among peers and collaborators across industries and advanced analytics. Afterward, Deloitte leader in solving grand challenges through largethrough this multiyear Partnership Program.” Consulting encouraged Hershey to attend IPP’s scale, global incentivized competitions; Singularity inaugural session, and also arranged a meeting University, a unique Silicon Valley educational Dr. Peter H. Diamandis, Chairman and Chief between Hershey’s CEO and the head of 3D LEADING WITH INTEGRITY institute and business incubator; and Deloitte Executive Officer of XPRIZE and Executive Systems to explore the potential of applying 3D Consulting. The inaugural IPP event took place in Chairman of Singularity University, believes Deloitte printing technology to chocolate making. “Some March 2013 at the NASA Ames Research Park in Consulting’s leading experience in strategy and of our clients have had very limited exposure to the California. More than 60 senior business leaders operations, human capital, and technology disruptive nature of exponential technologies, and from 30 companies—including Google, The consulting services will help the IPP alliance leverage depend on us to get them plugged into the right Hershey Company, and Coca-Cola—attended the its strengths to drive innovation across multiple ecosystem and introduce them to potential key inaugural, four-day summit. industries and business sectors. “Deloitte Consulting relationships,” Shingles explains. adds a crucial element with the ability to assist companies in customizing and implementing their innovation strategies resulting from IPP,” he says. 27 Deloitte Consulting conversations with Hershey led “We are excited about our growing relationship HOME to both strategy and human capital projects for the with Deloitte Consulting, and are very appreciative U.S. firm. The confectioner’s leaders also have met to have access to their talented consultants through with the Deloitte U.S. firm’s Audit and Enterprise the fellowship program,” Diamandis says. “With Risk Services (AERS) practice to discuss scenario Deloitte Consulting’s contribution, we will have a planning, and with Doblin co-founder, Larry Keeley, constant stream of new perspectives and ideas that EXECUTIVE MESSAGE to explore Doblin’s Ten Types of Innovation. will help XPRIZE continuously innovate our models.” “IPP not only provides unique access to relevant “This program is exciting on many levels,” Shingles thought leaders and entrepreneurs,” says Bert adds. “In addition to deepening our relationship GLOBAL LEADER Alfonso, Hershey’s President of International with XPRIZE and applying our consulting FOR CLIENTS Operations, “but it also introduces an important experience to help them innovate and drive vantage point and exposure to the key drivers and positive social outcomes, we also anticipate that pace in which various emerging innovations— our professionals will bring XPRIZE’s crowdsourced technological and organizational—will transform incentive competition model to our clients to make the business landscape in the near term and an impact on their corporate social responsibility DISRUPTION: LEADING longer term.” initiatives and help them solve their innovation THE PACK challenges. XPRIZE fellowship program Data analytics lead to Deloitte Consulting and the XPRIZE Foundation “We’re also giving our consultants the chance transformative, decisive action extended its relationship in June 2014 by forming to use their business skills to help create social a multiyear strategic alliance and launching a change,” Shingles continues. “Today’s professionals Philip Rosedale, founder of the virtual world Second Life, presenting at the Innovation Partnership Program event Leading cyber risk management in new fellowship program. Through the program, want to work for organizations that nurture in March 2014. Photo credit: Picasa a smaller, more perilous world Deloitte Consulting will commit a team of fullinnovative thinking and have a positive influence on time professionals to work with XPRIZE on a pro society. This program helps to meet that demand.” Harnessing digital disruption to bono basis. inspire engagement, preference, loyalty The fellowship team will act as an “innovation catalyst” for XPRIZE to help drive the design, Anticipate to succeed—leading experimentation, incubation, and rollout of new predictive analytics concepts, methods, and models of crowd-sourced, incentivized prize competitions. With skills ranging Connecting clients with the from strategic advisory and technology innovation, world’s brightest minds to research and data analysis, the fellows will work with an integrated XPRIZE team and ecosystem that can include sponsors and donors, competitor prize teams, and some of the world’s leading innovators and entrepreneurs. LEADING TOGETHER LEADING WITH INTEGRITY 28 Leading together Deloitte remains at the forefront of advancing global economic prosperity, which can produce lasting social change, improving the lives of many. We help solve social, humanitarian, and environmental challenges through collaboration HOME with governments, civil society, and others in the private sector. Watch Global CEO Barry Salzberg share his views on how EXECUTIVE MESSAGE Deloitte is making an impact that matters for society. GLOBAL LEADER FOR CLIENTS DISRUPTION: LEADING THE PACK LEADING TOGETHER Helping government support families in need Investments with social impact Advancing global economic prosperity and social wellbeing Improving our communities Accelerating access to education Advancing environmental sustainability LEADING WITH INTEGRITY Photo credit: Deloitte Belgium 29 Helping government support families in need Accelerating services, extending budgets Deloitte named a leader in worldwide Business Consulting Services for the public sector by IDC HOME MarketScape Source: IDC MarketScape: Worldwide Business Consulting Services for the Public Sector 2013 Vendor Analysis, Document #242457, August 2013. EXECUTIVE MESSAGE Deloitte named a global leader in Human Resources GLOBAL LEADER Consulting in the public FOR CLIENTS sector by Kennedy Source: Kennedy Consulting Research & Advisory; Human Resources Consulting in the Public Sector; Kennedy Photo credit: Ran Ding, Deloitte China Consulting Research & Advisory estimates. © 2014 Kennedy Information, LLC. Reproduced under license. DISRUPTION: LEADING THE PACK Despite spending more than $3 billion each year Deloitte Consulting was initially brought in for “Deloitte’s participation helped the government’s to strengthen and maintain at-risk families, one a six-week project to improve the government’s agencies improve the lives of people in need by North American government’s social, children, and system, but soon realized if the client was going to delivering higher quality social services more family development agencies experienced problems achieve its desired results, a whole new game plan quickly and efficiently,” Kukatla says. “We took LEADING TOGETHER maximizing the benefits of the services they were was needed. “Our team really impressed the client them from strategy to implementation and, today, providing. with the understanding and leadership we brought they are achieving results they had not considered Helping government support to the engagement, as well as our working style, possible.” families in need “For years, ‘siloed’ processes made it difficult for ideas, and teamwork,” Kukatla says. government to deliver these services, monitor Investments with social impact outcomes, and effectively provide additional The initial engagement evolved into a 12-week benefits for families with multiple needs,” explains “approach-refinement” period that ultimately Advancing global economic Sucha Kukatla, Principal, Deloitte Consulting LLP turned into a 10-year contract to transform and prosperity and social wellbeing (Deloitte U.S.). “The government also lacked a case integrate service delivery models. “This kind of management system that could deliver integrated project has never been accomplished in any North Improving our communities social service programs across the agencies.” American jurisdiction,” Kukatla notes. Working with colleagues from Canada and Mexico, the team Accelerating access to education Governmental leaders agreed they could do a moved 14 agency programs to a common platform. better job providing programs for children with Advancing environmental special needs, child protection and adoption sustainability services, teen suicide prevention, health care, The results have been impressive. housing assistance, and job-search resources. They Today, the intake procedure is realized an experienced consultant could offer and execute solutions that the government didn’t have 200 percent faster. Privacy and the resources to pursue. But, they didn’t know security breaches have decreased by LEADING WITH INTEGRITY how efficient the system could be and how much 300 percent. Administrative errors money could be saved until Deloitte Consulting have decreased by 50 percent. showed them the possibilities. Benefits are distributed 51 percent “Our Consulting practice is focused on areas where faster. And case workers can now we can be a leader, and one of those is the public sector,” says Jim Moffatt, Chairman and CEO, handle 23 percent more cases, saving Deloitte Consulting LLP (Deloitte U.S.) “This sort $8.8 million annually. of work provides a special satisfaction because not only are we building clients’ capabilities, but we’re also having an impact on citizens—in this case, people who especially need and appreciate a helping hand.” 30 Investments with social impact Leading the way A September 2014 World Economic Forum report, prepared in collaboration with DTTL, helps interested HOME investors ask the right questions as they contemplate their path into impact investing. EXECUTIVE MESSAGE Watch Kristen Sullivan, Partner, Deloitte & GLOBAL LEADER Touche LLP (Deloitte FOR CLIENTS U.S.), share her views on why impact investing matters. Photo credit: Sue Ford, Deloitte U.S. DISRUPTION: LEADING THE PACK Investors consider a variety of complex variables The potential The challenges when assessing potential opportunities to grow As more investors become aware of their ability to Impact investing is not without its challenges, their money. Until recently, though, social impact impact society, an increasing number of players have though, as considerable barriers to investor and was seldom a factor they included in the equation. begun to nudge their toes onto the burgeoning market success remain. The project report, From LEADING TOGETHER That has begun to change thanks, in part, to field. “In the beginning, most investors were wealthy the Margins to the Mainstream—released in Deloitte and its efforts to promote impact investing Helping government support individuals and ‘venture philanthropists,’ people September 2013 by the World Economic Forum— among clients and other investors. Deloitte not families in need who already supported good causes financially, but points out that because the marketplace is still only is a leader in this emerging field, but the recognized they could earn a return through that in its early stages, many mainstream investors Monitor Group—now Monitor Deloitte, having Investments with social impact support,” explains Sullivan. “Today, institutional remain dubious. DTTL acted as a pro bono project been acquired by Deloitte in 2012—published investors and even risk-sensitive banks and pension advisor to the Forum’s “Mainstreaming Impact the influential report, Investing for Social & Advancing global economic funds are entering the field.” Investing” initiative, bringing stakeholders into the Environmental Impact, in 2009. prosperity and social wellbeing discussion, conducting research, and helping draft the project report. “Impact investing is an approach that intentionally According to a 2010 J. P. Morgan Improving our communities seeks to create both financial return and positive “Right now, impact investing has comparatively societal impact that is actively measured,” says report, estimates of the size of the Accelerating access to education few of the ‘necessary ingredients’ investors want, Kristen Sullivan, Partner, Deloitte & Touche LLP market and its potential range from including intellectual capital, qualified advisors, (Deloitte U.S.). “It’s a way to connect social US$400 billion to US$1 trillion by accelerators, and proven financial returns,” Advancing environmental entrepreneurs and organizations to capital markets 2020, and could generate profits Sullivan explains. “Beyond that, impact investment sustainability and harness the most powerful forces of capitalism portfolios and deal sizes tend to be smaller than to tackle society’s complex issues.” between US$183 billion and US$667 traditional investments. And the uncertainty of billion during the same period. metrics for success leads to questions about the Impact investments can be made through privateand public-sector vehicles, and be targeted at a trade-off between financial and social return.” LEADING WITH INTEGRITY More than 90 percent of global investors variety of economic, social, and environmental surveyed by JP Morgan and the Global Impact In spite of these challenges, more and more enterprises. Invested capital already is being used Investing Network reported financial returns for “inclusive businesses” are emerging to serve and to improve community infrastructure, develop impact investments to be above or in line with benefit the poor. “Impact investors are counting renewable energy, alleviate poverty, create expectations, and nearly everyone said the social on these businesses to grow and flourish,” says affordable housing, and benefit people in both and/or environmental impact made by those Ashish Karamchandani, Partner, Monitor Deloitte developed and developing markets. investments met or exceeded expectations. That India. “Unfortunately, most of these solutions are could explain why those surveyed expect to commit achieving low levels of scale, but there is significant 19 percent more capital to impact investments in interest in changing that.” 2014 than they did the previous year. 31 Karamchandani points to an effort begun in “Because of our early involvement in the field, our Advancing the concept HOME India by Monitor Inclusive Markets in 2006 to member firm practitioners around the world have World leaders championed private capital and develop purpose-built apartments for low-income a clear first-mover advantage over our competitors development of a global social impact investment households. “In the beginning, we couldn’t find a and the boutique investing firms,” Sullivan explains. market at the 2013 G8 Summit in London. British developer who could see the potential. Once we “On top of that, the Deloitte network’s global Prime Minister David Cameron and Sir Ronald found the initial players and created projects that reach, as well as our strategic, measurement, and EXECUTIVE MESSAGE Cohen, a noted venture capitalist and chairman of generated overwhelming demand, there was a accounting expertise, uniquely positions member Big Society Capital, announced the formation of challenge getting financing to buyers. Then there firms to play a transformative role in the field. We the G8’s Social Impact Investment Taskforce. The were regulatory obstacles that made it tough for are able to produce eminence in this space through taskforce is composed of four working groups, developers to scale,” he explains. Monitor Institute and Monitor Inclusive Markets, each aiming to speed the advancement of impact GLOBAL LEADER as well as a range of other service lines, including investing by addressing a key focal area within FOR CLIENTS Deloitte Sustainability Services and our strategy and the industry. “Along the way, we worked with operations service lines in the U.S.” developers, banks, and government One of the four, the Impact Measurement Working Client surveys suggest Deloitte has several distinct Group, was supported through a pro bono effort at all levels to adapt their strategies competitive advantages. One is the network’s by Deloitte & Touche LLP (Deloitte U.S.) and DISRUPTION: LEADING in a changing environment. Today, experience from blueprint to scale. “Member firms Deloitte Consulting LLP (Deloitte U.S.). More than THE PACK more than 80,000 units have been around the world can offer support ranging from 20 global experts teamed up to develop a set strategic advisory services to the design and launch sold to low-income families in India,” of general guidelines for impact measurement, of investment vehicles, infrastructure development, as well as a roadmap for achieving a universal Karamchandani continues. “We are and measurement and valuation services. This measurement convention that provides the LEADING TOGETHER actively sharing our story to help experience uniquely positions Deloitte to bring a transparency and accountability that is needed to others learn from our process and strategic and ‘aspirational’ view to the table that is build capital markets at scale. The group’s work Helping government support rooted in a deep understanding of market realities,” was included in the Social Impact Investment families in need ignite the true potential that exists Karamchandani explains. Taskforce’s recently released report. to create societal impact through Investments with social impact Another advantage is Deloitte’s track record in market-based solutions.” “Impact investing is a phenomenon that’s growing impact investment, enterprise development, and will gain momentum as governments enhance and entrepreneurship. “Deloitte has completed Advancing global economic policy, regulation, and funding to help it grow,” Leading the way more than 75 projects around the world with prosperity and social wellbeing Sullivan says. “The more private players improve The challenges that currently limit impact investing players across the impact investing ecosystem,” how social outcomes are measured, the more present opportunities for Deloitte, which is Karamchandani says. “Deloitte practitioners work Improving our communities government wants to know about the potential. distinguished by its track record for helping across an array of sectors—including housing, They are looking to Deloitte for advice, which advance the capital markets infrastructure to financial inclusion, water, and agriculture— Accelerating access to education puts our member firms in an important and enable impact investing to scale. Deloitte & Touche and deliver deep insight into leading models enviable position.” LLP (Deloitte U.S.) and Deloitte Consulting LLP and practices. Advancing environmental (Deloitte U.S.) assisted in the development of the sustainability Impact Reporting and Investment Standards (IRIS) “And because Deloitte has an active presence in and serves as a founding sponsor of the Global more than 150 countries and territories around Impact Investing Rating System (GIIRS), both of the world,” he adds, “we can deploy the right which serve as important mechanisms in scaling practitioners quickly. Our global network of internal LEADING WITH INTEGRITY impact investing. and external impact investing professionals allows member firms to effectively cross-fertilize best practices and models across markets.” 32 Advancing global economic prosperity and social wellbeing Tackling the world’s toughest challenges Deloitte ranked #1 globally in Forensics & Dispute Advisory Services by Kennedy HOME Source: Kennedy Consulting Research & Advisory; Kennedy Forensics and Dispute Advisory Services 2013. © 2013 Kennedy Information, LLC. Reproduced under license. EXECUTIVE MESSAGE Watch Steve Almond, Chairman of the DTTL GLOBAL LEADER Board, discuss how FOR CLIENTS Deloitte works to tackle society’s toughest issues. Photo credit: Ping Kin Shea, Deloitte China DISRUPTION: LEADING Deloitte selected to the THE PACK Geopolitical instability, environmental concerns, World Economic Forum regionally focused meetings and workshops around World Economic Forum’s corrupt leadership, and growing inequality are One of Deloitte’s longest-running strategic the globe. Additionally, Deloitte professionals Partnering Against just a few of the disturbing story lines dominating relationships is with the World Economic Forum. and leaders have been selected to advise seven Corruption Initiative LEADING TOGETHER today’s news. Hundreds of groups—governments, industry projects during the 2014-15 cycle. Project For more than two decades, Deloitte has taken a (PACI) Vanguard CEO nongovernment organizations (NGOs), and leadership role in advancing the Forum’s objective topics include innovation, cyber security, emerging professional services networks like Deloitte— technologies, financial services, anti-corruption, Community Helping government support of “improving the state of the world.” work tirelessly together to solve these challenges. and chemicals. families in need Those efforts rarely grab headlines, but they are “The Forum brings our most strategic stakeholders critical to making markets fair, keeping commerce together under one program, including CEOs of As industry project advisers, Deloitte member firms Investments with social impact trustworthy, and improving peoples’ lives. global corporations and growth companies, leaders are well equipped to help clients address pressing of government and international institutions, industry issues and provide strategic insight that Advancing global economic “In the last few years it’s become clear that the academia, media leaders, and opinion makers,” drives executive business decisions. “The Forum prosperity and social wellbeing only way we can truly address the major challenges explains Gary Coleman, who leads DTTL’s also provides opportunities, through a variety of plaguing our society is through collective action,” relationship with the World Economic Forum. “Our communities and initiatives in which we participate, Improving our communities says Barry Salzberg, Global Chief Executive approach allows us to focus on issues that matter for our people to develop as leaders by engaging Officer, DTTL. “At Deloitte, we recognize the most to our stakeholders, and maintain a strong and in important global issues,” says Coleman, who Accelerating access to education responsibility—and ultimately the benefit—of active year-round engagement with the Forum.” has contributed to a wide range of Forum events. developing relationships with governments, NGOs, “Deloitte is proud to be one of the Forum’s most Advancing environmental and other businesses to tackle these issues.” Through its work with the Forum, Deloitte has a engaged strategic allies. Our engagement puts us sustainability hand in shaping the agenda on key global issues, front and center with global decision makers who This collaboration is made possible by the client such as the role of business in society, growth, are creating a better future.” services member firms provide, the skill and innovation, talent, and competitiveness. Deloitte knowledge of their people, and the breadth of their is involved in various initiatives and communities Anti-corruption advocacy relationships with business, government, and civil LEADING WITH INTEGRITY within the Forum, including Global Agenda Almond provides DTTL’s engagement in the society. “The expectation for businesses to take a Councils, which address key challenges and Forum’s Partnership Against Corruption Initiative leadership role to address the challenges facing the generate solutions to pressing global issues. “The (PACI) Vanguard, a group of 24 business leaders societies in which they operate will only continue Forum platform enables us to influence policy who help shape and inform the direction and to grow, and I’m proud to say Deloitte is at the debate by sharing recommendations on issues dialogue around a robust anti-corruption agenda. forefront of this movement,” Salzberg says. of mutual interest with policymakers and their The PACI Vanguard seeks to establish a framework stakeholders,” says Steve Almond, Chairman of that can address corruption consistently and lead Deloitte currently is involved in multiple global the DTTL Board of Directors, who has been closely to more effective enforcement. Currently, the U.S. efforts that promote capital market fairness and engaged with the Forum for many years. member firm serves as an advisor to PACI and is efficiency, renewable energy, the fight against active in a series of projects connecting public and corruption and cybercrime, effective trade policies, In 2014, Deloitte participated in the Forum’s private initiatives to stamp out corruption in supply equality, and humanitarian relief, among others. Annual Meeting at Davos, the Annual Meeting chains, as well as improve collaboration between Here are a few of the more high-profile initiatives of New Champions in China, the Summit on national governments and local, regional, and and groups with which Deloitte was intimately the Global Agenda, five regional summits, and multinational organizations. involved during FY2014. 33 At the Forum’s May 2014 meeting in Abuja, Through the program, professionals from Deloitte For example, when Typhoon Haiyan struck the HOME Nigeria, PACI supported the launch of the Clean member firms and humanitarian organizations Philippines in November 2013, the CEO of the Deloitte recognized for Business Practice Initiative (CBPI), a private-sectorcombine their diverse skills and expertise to South East Asia member firm’s Philippines office driven anti-corruption initiative that complements co-create and implement innovative solutions spearheaded local response and recovery efforts. innovative client work in government efforts in fighting corruption in to the sector’s most pressing challenges. By This included assuming a role as an advisory board European Tax Awards Nigeria. “Deloitte firms in Nigeria and the United collaborating with local, national, and international member of a private sector foundation organized EXECUTIVE MESSAGE States helped pull this initiative together, offering humanitarian actors, we aim to enhance their to harness all the private-business contributions pro bono governance and organizational work, ability to prepare for, and respond to humanitarian towards relief, rehabilitation, and reconstruction of as well as defining strategies to help CBPI in its crises such as natural disasters. During FY2014, damaged areas in the country. Colleagues from the Watch to learn about early stages,” says James “Chip” Cottrell, partner, professionals from Deloitte member firms provided Southeast Asia region also activated a fund raising trends in the global tax GLOBAL LEADER Deloitte Financial Advisory Services LLP (Deloitte pro bono services through the program to address campaign and pledges of support from around environment that affects FOR CLIENTS U.S). “This is a model we think lends itself to challenges facing the sector, such as leadership the globe were overwhelming. Together with the global businesses. expansion in other countries to develop and development, surge capacity, and resilience. Southeast Asia member firm’s contributions, more implement anti-corruption practices that help level than US$290,000 was raised. Contributions were the playing field in trade, commerce, and industry.” A team from the digital strategy practice at Monitor channeled to the Philippine National Red Cross, Deloitte, Deloitte Consulting LLP (Deloitte U.S.) Deloitte is named the DISRUPTION: LEADING which provided disaster and emergency response In addition to its work with the Forum, Deloitte worked with AtrocityWatch to develop a strategic efforts in the provinces of Leyte, Samar, and Capiz; 2014 Americas Tax Policy THE PACK is engaged in global anti-corruption efforts with plan and roadmap for organizational optimization the G20—through the B20—and the United and technology deployment. AtrocityWatch is an and the Philippine Business for Social Progress, Firm of the Year and Nations Global Compact. Deloitte also works with NGO focused on saving lives by making critical which built temporary shelters and facilitated the 2014 Americas Tax clearing operations. Some of the financial aid was the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime technology, expertise, and information available also directed to flood relief causes in Vietnam, Innovator Firm of the LEADING TOGETHER (UN ODC) and the Organisation for Economic to individuals, organizations, and governments which was also significantly affected by the Year by the International Co-operation and Development (OECD) on specific, seeking to prevent mass atrocity crimes. Deloitte typhoon. Tax Review. Helping government support country-focused initiatives. UK’s Switzerland Consulting practice is helping families in need the International Organization for Migration to Deloitte Central Europe professionals went into Through Deloitte’s Anti-Corruption Academies, strengthen its approaches and tools in efforts action when heavy rainfall hit Croatia and Bosnia governance, anti-corruption, and public-policy Investments with social impact to enhance operational-level coordination and Herzegovina in May 2014, submerging many professionals provide training on combating and management in displacement sites. The villages and towns. The floods caused widespread corruption, money laundering, and fraud; and Advancing global economic Deloitte network will share the ideas and solutions material damage, forcing thousands of people prosperity and social wellbeing inform clients of effective compliance and internaldeveloped through these projects so that the entire to leave their homes. Member firm staff quickly control programs. During the past fiscal year, humanitarian sector can benefit from and scale them. collected donations to buy much-needed supplies, Deloitte launched Anti-Corruption Academies Improving our communities including bottled water, durable foodstuffs, and in Brazil, Chile, Mexico, United Arab Emirates, Two additional pro bono projects were also personal-hygiene products. The Croatia office and Indonesia; additional Academies are being completed this year. First, Deloitte UK consulting Accelerating access to education employees also volunteered onsite to help provide scheduled in South America and Europe in FY2015. professionals worked with Save the Children aid to affected families. “Through our Anti-Corruption Academies, Deloitte International to help them understand the Advancing environmental is able to bring its cross-functional expertise operational challenges of scaling up and scaling Deloitte Japan and its professionals continue sustainability to discussions with respect to anti-corruption, down in times of crisis; and also to develop a to participate in rebuilding efforts in the wake compliance, and enterprise risk management,” says strategy to assist the delivery of more efficient and of the Great East Japan Earthquake of 2011. A DTTL’s Dan Konigsburg, who leads the Deloitte effective operations. And second, the Resilience reconstruction support team, based in the Sendai Global Center for Corporate Governance. “In practice of Deloitte & Touche LLP (Deloitte U.S.) office, was organized to focus on economic LEADING WITH INTEGRITY addition, our Academy events promote a forum to worked with Mercy Corps to develop a framework reconstruction in the most seriously affected areas discuss local and global anti-corruption policies and that incorporates resiliency into strategic and of Tohoku. The team is collaborating with local practices impacting clients across the globe.” operational decision-making processes. governments, financial institutions, and not-forprofit organizations to deliver supporting services The Deloitte Humanitarian Innovation Program Disaster-relief efforts to affected companies. It also is working with In 2013, the Deloitte network selected AtrocityWatch Disasters often strike with little or no warning entrepreneurs to plan and develop innovative and the International Organization for Migration and millions of people and thousands of products and services in an effort to boost the local (IOM) to receive pro-bono support as part of the businesses can be devastated overnight. When economy. Deloitte Humanitarian Innovation Program. this happens, Deloitte member firms and professionals from around the world respond generously by spearheading pro bono efforts and collecting donations to support local and regional relief agencies. 34 Social Progress Imperative So, the OECD and the G20 are deeply engaged “Too many talented women are choosing to HOME Eighty years since the development of gross in the Base Erosion and Profit Shifting (BEPS) step off the corporate ladder, believing further Deloitte named a global initiative. It was created to coordinate multi-country advancement is not available to them. This has domestic product (GDP), there is a growing leader in Leadership recognition of the need to measure progress legislative change in the area of international tax to to change and change needs leadership,” says better align the law with current policy objectives Almond. “At Deloitte, we face the same challenges Development Consulting beyond economic factors if countries are to achieve EXECUTIVE MESSAGE sustainable growth. DTTL’s relationship with Social in this area. This initiative could increase the level as other companies and are not satisfied with our by Kennedy Progress Imperative (SPI) is breaking new ground in of certainty that business needs in conducting its progress. To confront these trends, I encourage Source: Kennedy Consulting Research & Advisory; tax affairs. It also will clarify what tax planning is our leaders—and all business leaders—to own Leadership Development Consulting Market. © 2013 measuring what matters most to advance progress Kennedy Information, LLC. Reproduced under license for both people and society. acceptable under the law and what is not. the issue of gender diversity, create substantive engagement, and provide sponsors, coaches, and GLOBAL LEADER SPI’s Social Progress Index uses indicators that Deloitte member firms are very involved in this mentors to help talented women achieve their FOR CLIENTS provide an authoritative view of a country’s social process globally and at the local level, responding to OECD and local country requests for input, true potential.” Watch Sydney Booker, and environmental strengths and weaknesses. This presents a more holistic assessment for the 132 educating clients on the issues, and keeping them Deloitte Germany and Deloitte Middle East are Associate – Forensic countries it ranks—which covers more than 90 abreast of developments. DTTL also sponsored the among the member firms following Almond’s lead. and Dispute Services, percent of the world’s population—and is starting G20’s International Tax Symposium on this topic The German firm’s “Leader.In” networking initiative Deloitte Financial Advisory Services DISRUPTION: LEADING to drive a new dialogue into the debate around in Tokyo, Japan. Deloitte member firm partners is aimed at promoting diversity and cultivating LLP (Deloitte U.S.), talk about how THE PACK what can unlock true growth and progress. participated in panel discussions at the May 2014 female leadership in business, politics, and event, and are supporting additional G20 meetings society. Its 2014 launch event attracted potential she makes a difference through “We are working with SPI and other organizations in Australia during the latter half of the year. and existing clients, political leaders, and other her public policy work. to advance the adoption of the Social Progress Index influential stakeholders. The Deloitte Retention globally, and to bring together the right network Advocating women leaders in business LEADING TOGETHER and Advancement of Women in the Middle East of experts to address issues critical to economic DTTL and member firm leaders work with multiple (DRAW) initiative positions Deloitte Middle East Deloitte named a Helping government support and social development. This will help to further organizations to promote the business case for as a champion of women’s advancement across focus investment decisions and contribute towards attracting, retaining, developing, and advancing global leader in Change families in need the region. In addition to their regular gender building stronger societies,” explains Almond, who women to leadership in organizations and programs, the Middle East firm recently dedicated Management Services by society. Because measuring progress is critical to Kennedy Investments with social impact joined the SPI board of directors May 2014. “This a full month to advocating career development for collaboration combines the authority and policy future advocacy efforts, DTTL and the Business women through various on-the-ground and social Source: Kennedy Consulting Research & Advisory; Change Advancing global economic making of government, the convening power and and Industry Advisory Committee (BIAC) to the media activities across 12 countries targeting both Management Consulting Market. © 2012 Kennedy Information, LLC. Reproduced under license prosperity and social wellbeing subject-matter expertise of NGOs, and the technical Organization for Economic Cooperation and internal and external audiences. skills and creativity of the private sector.” Development (OECD) joined forces this past year to Another group of leaders that continues to pursue Improving our communities assess recent changes in company practices. During the past year, Deloitte member firms have advancing women in the workforce is the United worked with SPI and its partners to establish Their survey report released in June 2014, “Putting Nations Women’s Empowerment Principles (UN Accelerating access to education relationships with 76 organizations from government, All Our Minds to Work: An Assessment,” suggests WEP), a partnership initiative that takes the concept the private sector, and civil society in eight Latin while women are advancing in the workplace, their of empowering women out of the realm of doing Advancing environmental American and Caribbean countries. In the coming progress is slow and uneven. More than 66 percent good and into the reality of doing business. DTTL sustainability months, the Social Progress Networks will expand of companies responding to the survey reported an has supported UN WEP since its launch in 2010. into Africa, Europe, Asia, and North America. increase in the percentage of women in executive This past year, senior managers from Deloitte leadership positions since 2010. However, fewer U.S.’s Ellen P. Gabriel fellows program hosted an Tackling taxation issues than half have introduced policy and practice LEADING WITH INTEGRITY “Innovation Café” for the UN WEP team. The day Because global trade is essential to worldwide changes aimed at retaining women at the manager included breakout sessions on generating and economic growth, Deloitte is working with level, and even fewer changes have been aimed prioritizing ideas, and small-group discussions on government and business leaders to improve the at advancing women into executive leadership how to make top ideas successful. The Women’s policies and processes governing global trade positions. So, despite some progress, more than Empowerment Principles are a set of principles for during a time of exponential growth in complexity, half of surveyed companies have not introduced business offering guidance on how to empower interconnectedness, and digital economies. An any new practices to encourage the advancement women in the workplace, marketplace, and important enabler of global trade is ensuring of women in their workplaces. community. More than 780 CEOs from around the tax revenue is accurately and appropriately world have signed the CEO Statement of Support, accounted for. signaling their endorsement of gender equality and the guidance provided by the principles. 35 Improving our communities Volunteering with impact Watch Paul Macmillan, Deloitte Global Public Sector Leader, share his views on the role individuals can HOME play in solving society’s biggest challenges. EXECUTIVE MESSAGE At the 9th annual Board of Boards CEO Roundtable of the Committee Encouraging Corporate Philanthropy (CECP), Barry Salzberg, Global CEO, DTTL, GLOBAL LEADER was honored with 2014 Founders FOR CLIENTS Award for “leading a company defined by its values of embracing community needs as their own and for creating a culture of pro bono DISRUPTION: LEADING service.” THE PACK Through skills-based volunteering, strategic To encourage future generations of volunteers, Deloitte Chile—IMPACT Day relationships with not-for-profits, and IMPACT Deloitte Canada launched a Changemakers During IMPACT Day in Deloitte Chile in 2013, Day initiatives, Deloitte professionals are making Scholarship for students whose parents are more than 120 employees donated one work day Watch Eduardo Uriarte, a positive difference in people’s lives around the employed by the member firm. To qualify, to benefit more than 1,100 people in low-income Senior Associate – LEADING TOGETHER world. Our volunteers are living examples of the young leaders need to demonstrate outstanding communities. Activities included improving the Strategy Consulting, Helping government support Deloitte network’s commitment to drive societal commitment to solving community problems. condition of a training center, a rural school, an Deloitte Spain, talk about how families in need progress in communities, applying their skills and assisted-living complex, a shelter for orphans, a day knowledge to create change and deliver impact Deloitte Australia is also supporting changemakers. volunteering has helped him care center, and a social welfare building. where it’s needed most. In 2013, the firm began collaborating with The become a better leader. Investments with social impact Australian Centre for Social Innovation (TACSI), a Deloitte Ireland—Nurture Africa William Eggers, Director, Public Sector Research, groundbreaking not-for-profit organization that In 2013, Deloitte Ireland launched a new Advancing global economic Deloitte Services LP (Deloitte U.S.), and Paul tackles Australia’s toughest social challenges Deloitte Portugal—Holiday season community prosperity and social wellbeing international skills-based volunteering program Macmillan, Deloitte Global Public Sector Leader, through problem-solving strategies and innovative, campaign with Nurture Africa. Seventeen staff from the call volunteers who contribute solutions to societal community-based programs. Deloitte Australia Deloitte Ireland’s Dublin office traveled to Uganda Deloitte Portugal’s 2013 holiday season community Improving our communities problems “citizen changemakers” in their book, The was the principal sponsor of TACSI’s inaugural campaign included a variety of initiatives promoting for a two-week placement where they provided Solution Revolution, published in 2013 by Harvard Changemakers Festival in November 2013 and skills-based volunteering, including accounting, giving and helping the country’s underprivileged Accelerating access to education Business Review Press. In The Solution Revolution, hosted a number of “Social Innovation Pitch Night” citizens. The firm supported 13 social organizations finance, and consultancy advice to local they explain how technology has enabled a “solution events from its offices nationally. community-development projects. Nurture Africa with in-kind and cash donations, and more than Advancing environmental economy” in which social enterprises, foundations, supports children in Uganda who are affected 120 Deloitte Portugal professionals volunteered sustainability governments, companies, and citizen changemakers Some examples of the impact our member with the homeless in Lisbon and Oporto. firms have made this year by HIV by providing access to health care and can now collaborate towards common societal education. Deloitte Spain—Get to Know My Project objectives and spark societal change. Deloitte Australia—Micro-volunteering platform Deloitte Luxembourg—Red Cross partnership Deloitte Spain’s “Get to Know My Project” annual Inspired by Eggers’ and Macmillan’s book, the Not-for-profit organizations seeking volunteers LEADING WITH INTEGRITY competition awards funding to two projects in can now find them with just a few clicks, thanks Deloitte Luxembourg has built a diverse and Deloitte Changemakers campaign was created which their professionals are personally involved— to a new online platform created by Deloitte multifaceted relationship with the Luxembourg Red to engage and energize Deloitte’s professionals one national and one international. This year, the Australia. Micro-volunteering @ Deloitte enables Cross. The firm and its staff members raise funds and highlight extraordinary personal stories of national recipient was “Run4Smiles,” which raises groups to connect with the Australia firm’s talented for Red Cross through various events, including an commitment and passion for specific societal funds to cover treatment costs for children with and passionate network of employees. They annual charity concert, bake sales, the corporate issues. Seventeen member firm professionals cerebral palsy. The international recipient was the volunteer their time, skills, and experience to solve Christmas market, and by running marathons and representing eight initiatives were recognized “School Programme in Cambodia,” which provides challenges, and also crowdsource solutions. More collecting money based on each kilometer they during the past year for leading their own solution opportunities for underserved children to attend than 40 skill sets are offered, from consulting on run. Firm professionals also provide their skills to revolutions by driving projects that expose human school rather than starting work at a young age. social media strategies and fund-raising ideas to assist Red Cross in addressing business-related trafficking, teach disadvantaged children, develop helping with using spreadsheets. challenges, and volunteer in other capacities, Deloitte Southern Africa—Feeding Scheme adults’ professional skills, bridge the digital divide in including answering the call for blood donations. The African Children’s Feeding Scheme (ACFS) has emerging countries, and efficiently connect not-forprofits with volunteers. a long-term community investment relationship with Deloitte Southern Africa. It runs a malnutrition 36 rehabilitation program and serves 31,000 primary communities. Using the firm’s recommendations, SOCIETY HOME school children daily who might otherwise attend MAW created a new fundraising model— school on an empty stomach. Deloitte Southern focused on increasing major gifts and corporate FY2014 +6.6% $190M Africa’s involvement spans from the firm’s chief engagement—that could help MAW double the executive, who chairs the ACFS executive board, to number of wishes it grants annually. Deloitte U.S. VALUE OF TIME the professionals who give their time and skills in member firm professionals also participated in the EXECUTIVE MESSAGE US$ governance, strategy, operations, and fund raising. annual Wishes in Flight® program, donating more than five million airline miles in 2013, providing more FY2013 +8.5% Deloitte UK—Micro-Tyco Student Challenge $179M than 200 airline tickets. Travel is the biggest expense Micro-Tyco is an entrepreneurial challenge for MAW and a factor in 74 percent of wishes. GLOBAL LEADER established by Wildhearts, a Deloitte UK Social FOR CLIENTS US$ Innovation Pioneers alumnus. They are helping to develop young people’s entrepreneurial skills, while During the past year, FY2012 +4.85% raising money that is invested in micro-loans for 17 Deloitte member $165M women in developing countries. This year, Deloitte UK mentors were matched with student teams at firm professionals DISRUPTION: LEADING universities. They were given £1 (approximately representing eight initiatives were US$ THE PACK SKILLS-BASED TRADITIONAL PRO BONO US$1.70) to turn it into as much money as recognized for leading their own VOLUNTEERING VOLUNTEERING possible during the month of February 2014. solution revolutions. Meet the Sixty-nine teams participated, generating £21,989 Deloitte Changemakers: 421,000 283,000 237,000 (approximately US$38,000), and the winning teams HOURS HOURS HOURS LEADING TOGETHER • Divya Hariharan (New Zealand); ($28M) ($48M) were given work experience at Deloitte UK. The ($30M) money has been used to support more than 3,300 • Russell Gong (U.S.); Helping government support entrepreneurs in Ghana to set up local businesses. • Lisa Monarski (U.S); families in need • Roxana Rodriguez (Peru); DONATIONS Deloitte U.S.—International volunteering • Debbie Chou (U.S.); FIRM DELOITTE PEOPLE Investments with social impact The D2international (D2i) is a social impact • Oliver Vanden Eynde (Belgium); Sai Prasad Vishwanathan (India); and DONATIONS* DONATIONS** fellowship program of Deloitte Consulting LLP • Advancing global economic (Deloitte U.S.) that harnesses the business skills • Will Cousino, Aurhur Gordon, Pete prosperity and social wellbeing of its professionals for international community development and cultural exchange. This year, Hadjigeorgiou, Aysha Malik, Claire Niech, Erin Orlich, Caitlin Ryan, Jamie Schroeder, $42M $30M Improving our communities D2i had two cohorts. In Guatemala, the team Cindy Shuck and Maura Welch (U.S.). worked with a not-for-profit focused on women’s Accelerating access to education empowerment to monitor and track effectiveness MANAGEMENT COSTS*** of programming, improve its processes, and infuse Advancing environmental business models to help preserve the indigenous sustainability culture. In one month, D2i’s contribution helped $11M raise the group’s revenue by US$30,000. In Bosnia and Herzegovina, the team developed a millennial engagement strategy for a social enterprise designed to lower local unemployment LEADING WITH INTEGRITY rates among youth. The project culminated All figures are aggregated across DTTL and its member firms. This data includes 34 member firms and DTTL representing with a collaborative innovation tournament, 95% of the global workforce. These figures represent a lower bound for measures of societal contributions as not all types of donations can be tracked in our systems. Because of rounding, numbers may not tally with the total. which included The United States Agency for DTTL and its member firms observe standards from the Committee Encouraging Corporate Philanthropy and the London International Development (USAID), Deloitte Benchmarking Group. The monetary value of community activities was estimated according to the type of service Consulting professionals, and local municipalities. performed. The value of volunteer work was based on local member firms’ staff costs. Pro bono work, defined as work that the member firms have delivered to not-for-profit organizations free-of-charge or at a significantly reduced rate, has Deloitte U.S.—Make-A-Wish strategic plan been valued at fair market rates representative of the local member firms’ client service rates for comparable services. Deloitte Consulting LLP (Deloitte U.S.) provided *Includes monetary and in-kind donations from member firms and foundations. pro bono support to develop a three-year strategic **Includes member firm partner and employee donations to member firm supported organizations. plan for Make-A-Wish America (MAW). MAW ***Includes member firm/foundation costs for managing societal impact programs. currently grants 14,000 wishes a year to children Deloitte Chile volunteers in Santiago participating facing life-threatening medical conditions, bringing during Impact Day. much needed joy, relief, and hope to families and 37 Accelerating access to education Committed to the next generation Watch Jia Li Mao, Audit Manager, Deloitte China, share her experiences mentoring young people. HOME In FY2014, DTTL joined the Global Business Coalition EXECUTIVE MESSAGE #smartinvestment Network. Together, we are supporting progress in changing GLOBAL LEADER the lives of young people through FOR CLIENTS education. Photo credit: Manja Dahl Vittrup, Deloitte Denmark Watch Claire Burton, DISRUPTION: LEADING Head of Corporate THE PACK Responsibility, Deloitte Equal access to education and skills development To achieve its objectives, Deloitte member firms volunteering. The program is supported by the is imperative for communities, nations, and global currently are supporting more than 120 programs Ministry for Foreign Affairs of Finland and The UK, discuss how Deloitte’s economic growth. It is also key to addressing the in collaboration with educators, not-for-profit Finnish Children and Youth Foundation, and is education initiatives are helping threat of a looming, worldwide talent shortage. organizations, governments, and businesses. Last implemented in collaboration with Fundacion to develop the workforce of the LEADING TOGETHER Around the globe, nearly 74 million young people year, member firms directed nearly US$50 million Cedro in Peru. future. Helping government support are looking for work. But, throughout the developed in donations, traditional volunteering, skills-based world and especially in emerging markets, there is a volunteering, pro bono services, and management Deloitte LATCO (Panama)—Providing a safe families in need mismatch between the skills young people offer and costs supporting the impact of these organizations. learning environment the abilities companies need. And Deloitte professionals contributed more than “Transición a la Vida” (Transition to Life), a program Investments with social impact 400,000 hours with educational and skills programs. created by the Friends of Malambo Association in Deloitte has made a long-term commitment collaboration with Deloitte LATCO’s Panama office, Advancing global economic to advancing educational and career-building Some examples of impact made by our helps children at the Hogar Malambo orphanage prosperity and social wellbeing opportunities. “Through Deloitte’s global education member firms in Panama. Malambo houses about 130 children and skills initiative, established in 2009, we are Deloitte China—Contributing to education in who have been abandoned or removed from Improving our communities dedicated to providing opportunities for young rural areas their families. Deloitte LATCO professionals help people to fulfill their aspirations and potential as them understand their strengths, establish goals, Accelerating access to education In 2009, Deloitte China launched the Hubei Hope individuals, within their communities, and in today’s learn how to apply and interview for jobs, develop School Project with a goal of building or renovating global society,” says Barry Salzberg, Global Chief financial literacy, and strengthen their self-esteem. Advancing environmental one school a year for five years in remote and Executive Officer, DTTL. sustainability underserved areas in Hubei Province. To date, four Deloitte LATCO (Peru)—Collaborating to Salzberg is personally committed to education. He Deloitte Hope Schools have been completed; a fifth strengthen education serves as Board Chairman for College Summit, a will open in November 2014. These schools, built In Peru, around 790,000 young people aged 6 nonprofit based in Washington, D.C. that provides with the support of Deloitte China and the local to 16 years old do not attend school. Through its support, encouragement, and role models to government, are providing more than 1,200 young LEADING WITH INTEGRITY Deloitte Foundation, the Peruvian firm is working low-income youth, connecting them to college people in rural areas with access to education and Students from Lima invited to Deloitte LATCO’s Peru office with eight organizations that focus on cultural and Impact Day. and careers. This year, College Summit will help better learning facilities in a safer environment. education initiatives. Together, they are having an thousands of kids not only get to college, but stay impact on 206,400 young people. The firm is also Deloitte Finland—Building skills through in school to complete their degrees. spurring collective action and advocacy. During volunteering Deloitte Finland launched the third year of the its IMPACT Day in September 2013, 80 Deloitte In 2012, Deloitte set a target to make a difference CoRe project, a program focused on developing LATCO professionals in Peru and 75 governmental in the lives of one million young people by 2015. employability skills of at-risk young people in and not-for-profit representatives participated in a So far, 1,080,000 have been reached through Peru. More than 300 people in six schools and one-day session to discuss solutions to the issue of national and local initiatives. Member firms are three shelter homes in Lima’s Rimac and La education in the country. measuring the impact of these programs on the ground, allowing us to identify what is and is not Victoria communities have participated in the working well so Deloitte can adapt its strategy program. Close to 30 Deloitte Finland professionals and approach. have helped in its delivery through skills-based 38 Deloitte Central Europe (Serbia)—Mentoring EDUCATION AND SKILLS: YOUNG PEOPLE REACHED tomorrow’s professionals Through a recent cooperative agreement between FY2014 423,000 Deloitte Central Europe’s Serbia office and the 1,000,000 Faculty of Economics, Finance, and Administration HOME TOTAL NUMBER OF (FEFA), 10 Deloitte Central Europe practitioners YOUNG PEOPLE REACHED have delivered presentations and workshops to FROM FY2012-FY2014 FEFA students. The program offers opportunities FY2013 307,000 for talented young people to strengthen their skills in entrepreneurship, leadership, finance, and EXECUTIVE MESSAGE consulting. The initiative will provide an opportunity for five students to access the internship program at Deloitte Central Europe’s Serbia office. FY2012 GLOBAL LEADER Deloitte Southern Africa—Supporting the public education system In Johannesburg, there is a lack of mathematics achievement in grades eight and nine. Since 2013, 350,000 SUPPORT IN DONATIONS, OUR PEOPLE’S TIME, AND PROGRAM SUPPORT TO EDUCATION AND SKILLS INITIATIVES FOR CLIENTS 50% MANAGEMENT Deloitte Southern Africa has worked with the DISRUPTION: LEADING $50M government to strengthen the nation’s public education system. In collaboration with the THE PACK Gauteng province’s education department, the OF OUR PEOPLE’S TOTAL firm provides financial support to the department’s SKILLS-BASED VOLUNTEERING Satellite Mathematics Project. More than 30 underAND PRO BONO TIME performing schools have been selected by the LEADING TOGETHER department. The project is the first in South African public schools to make use of digital technology DEVELOPING THE NEXT GENERATION’S POTENTIAL Helping government support to support classroom teaching and learning, and is PERCENT OF DELOITTE MEMBER FIRMS’ EDUCATION INITIATIVES families in need having an impact on 12,650 young people. THAT BUILD SKILLS IN THESE AREAS* Deloitte UK—Raising young people’s aspirations Investments with social impact In 2013, Deloitte UK established a strategic Advancing global economic relationship with Teach First to help young people prosperity and social wellbeing from disadvantaged backgrounds raise their aspirations and access opportunities in higher Improving our communities education and employment. Twelve schools were selected across the UK to receive a tailored Accelerating access to education package of support from Deloitte UK. To date, the program has had an impact on more than Advancing environmental 2,000 young people, and engaged more than sustainability 500 Deloitte UK professionals who have provided mentoring programs, employability workshops, tutoring, aspirations workshops, and other support. In 2014, Deloitte UK aims to increase the number 77% 62% 59% 55% of schools it is supporting and make an impact on EMPLOYABILITY CITIZENSHIP PROFESSIONAL ENTREPRENEURSHIP LEADING WITH INTEGRITY SKILLS 4,000 young people. DEVELOPMENT Deloitte U.S.—Courageous Principals take the lead Courageous Principals is a leadership-development Global figures are aggregated across DTTL and its member firms. program in the U.S. that aims to ignite systemic * Based on information from 115 education and skills initiatives reported in FY2014. changes in education by equipping public school principals with relationship building, communication, and influencing skills. The objective of the program is to reach 1 million students by 2020, starting with 500 principals— who reach 8,000 teachers, who, in turn, reach 100,000 students per year. More than 250 principals have participated and are already leveraging what they learned. 39 Advancing environmental sustainability Leading a green transformation Deloitte named a leader in Sustainability Consulting in the U.S. by Verdantix HOME Source: Green Quadrant® Sustainability Consulting (US) 2013, May 2013, Verdantix Ltd© 2007-2013. Reproduction Prohibited. EXECUTIVE MESSAGE Watch Anna Nefedova, Senior Manager – GLOBAL LEADER Sustainability, Deloitte & FOR CLIENTS Touche LLP (Deloitte U.S.), talk about the alignment between her values and Deloitte’s Shared Values, and making a difference DISRUPTION: LEADING through her sustainability work THE PACK with clients. Deloitte’s approach to sustainability is twofold: Switzerland, which recently gained a LEED Member firms also work vigorously to advance initiatives we champion across our global network Platinum award. The Switzerland offices have sustainability among their clients. Deloitte member to reduce the ecological impact of approximately also been certified to ISO14001, the preeminent firms have more than 800 sustainability specialists 210,000 people; and work we do with clients environmental management standard. During helping clients transition to sustainable business Deloitte named a global LEADING TOGETHER to advance sustainability practices that will help the coming year, the Swiss offices are planning models and practices that will deliver topand leader in Sustainable Helping government support deliver long-term financial growth. a series of green initiatives, from improved bottom-line financial growth for the long term. Technology Services by recycling facilities and upgraded lighting families in need Deloitte’s environmental impact is largely through systems, to rolling out secure printing that Examples of their efforts include: Verdantix the travel and office needs of a global network requires in-person activation. Deloitte United States—WaterCredit Source: Green Quadrant® Sustainable Technology Investments with social impact of businesses. In FY2014, absolute greenhouse microfinance programs Services (Global), March 2013, Verdantix Ltd © 2007-2013. gas emissions remained essentially constant, even • Two years into its second five-year plan to reduce Reproduction Prohibited. Advancing global economic Water.org is a not-for-profit organization that though headcount grew by almost 4 percent. greenhouse gasses by 25 percent, Deloitte China prosperity and social wellbeing provides access to safe water and sanitation to This result corresponds to a 6 percent decrease in has combined infrastructure management, hundreds of communities in Africa, South Asia, carbon intensity per fulltime equivalent (FTE) from policy enhancement, and employee engagement Improving our communities FY2013. Demonstrating improved eco-efficiency for to achieve a 9 percent intensity reduction. and Central America. Its WaterCredit program uses Watch Dave Pearson, the services member firms deliver, carbon intensity Initiatives include an LED lighting retrofit that microfinance tools to connect financial institutions Deloitte Global Accelerating access to education with communities and individuals in developing per dollar of revenue, an indicator that had been has reduced both energy costs and air pollution countries in need of safe water and toilets. To Chief Sustainability relatively constant for the past three years, dropped from electricity generation. The firm introduced Officer, share his views on why Advancing environmental help make the case for WaterCredit expansion by 7 percent in FY2014. a vendor assessment survey to support its sustainability is good business. sustainability by providing solid evidence to external parties Green Procurement Standard, and a low-carbon As part of our internal network-wide initiatives and microfinance institutions, Water.org selected challenge campaign using social media to we have expanded engagement with Deloitte Deloitte U.S. to help assess the profitability and engage employees. professionals in continual learning on sustainability viability of WaterCredit microfinance programs and priorities and practices through monthly • Deloitte Brazil created a sustainability program tools in India. Demonstrating the long-term viability Full details of Deloitte’s LEADING WITH INTEGRITY newsletters, webinars and other communications called “SIGA” (Integrated System of Management of WaterCredit is critical to the continued adoption energy use and greenhouse tools, for example, our sustainability social media and Action), through which it can consistently and impact of the program to transform more lives gas emissions can be found engagement grew by more than 200 percent in the address and discuss issues related to social with safe water. in the Performance Table. last year. responsibility, environment, health and safety, and quality of processes in order to disseminate Deloitte United States—Managing marble waste In-depth disclosure of our greenhouse Other examples of initiatives taken by Deloitte principles and train its professionals. Marble is one of the West Bank’s leading exports, gas emissions, as well as our risks and member firms include: but the stone-cutting process creates slurry, a opportunities related to climate change, can be • The Deloitte Commonwealth of Independent problematic mixture of water, stone fragments, found in Deloitte’s 2014 CDP (formerly Carbon • Deloitte UK’s Switzerland offices launched States (CIS) member firm, in order to reduce Disclosure Project) Climate Change and Supply dust, and metal particulates. For more than a the “Our Green Journey” program focused its carbon footprint, introduced its ‘Green Bike Chain submissions. decade, companies discarded the contaminant into on delivering environmental excellence. The program’ this year, which allows its employees municipal wastewater, creating what locals called Zurich office also collaborated with its landlord to borrow bicycles from the firm to travel to and “a milky river.” The U.S. Agency for International to develop one of the greenest buildings in from work instead of driving. Development (USAID) saw a need for urgent 40 action. Deloitte U.S. was engaged, with funding ENVIRONMENT: GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS HOME from USAID, to help create shortand long-term (METRIC TONNES CO2e PER FULL-TIME EQUIVALENT (FTE)) sustainable environmental solutions. Within a month, the team put a viable waste haulage and FY2014 4.4 disposal program in place with plans for more EXECUTIVE MESSAGE 27% permanent solutions to support waste reduction and reuse. As a result, more than 15,000 cubic BY SOURCE meters of slurry is redirected every month to cover 73% waste in municipal landfills, reducing odor; and to fill FACILITIES abandoned quarries, improving community safety. FY2013 GLOBAL LEADER 4.7 244,036 FOR CLIENTS Deloitte United States—Creating “smart METRIC TONNES communities” BUSINESS TRAVEL The Tennessee Valley Authority (TVA), which provides electricity for nine million people in parts FY2012 DISRUPTION: LEADING of seven states, needed help deciding how to 672,666 METRIC TONNES 4.7 efficiently use $20 million to deliver low-income THE PACK energy makeovers and smart energy technologies to consumers. The Deloitte U.S. firm performed a national study of best practices to identify the key components of successful programs and the LEADING TOGETHER Global figures are aggregated across DTTL and its member firms. different business models used to deliver programs. With this information, Deloitte U.S. helped the Helping government support TVA develop an innovative project that promises to families in need improve consumer’s lives, reduce greenhouse gas in Europe for years to come. BIO has been a key to encourage GRI reporters to publish their Deloitte Belgium—Educating a university emissions, and serve as a model to other utilities, player in the development, implementation, and sustainability reports digitally using the GRI During the past two years, Deloitte Belgium Investments with social impact companies, and not-for-profits nationwide. assessment of the European Union’s environmental Taxonomy. Publication of a digital GRI XBRL report sustainability professionals have been working policies through numerous service assignments with provides stakeholders with easier and faster access with the Université Catholique de Louvain to Deloitte United States—Water Leadership Group Advancing global economic the European Commission during the past 20 years. to a company’s nonfinancial information. It also offer an external perspective on sustainability prosperity and social wellbeing DTTL was a founding member of the World improves the accuracy of the data used by investors methodologies and help the University structure Business Council for Sustainable Development Deloitte France—Transitioning to a circular and analysts and improves the integrity and its own approach. After collaborating to define Improving our communities (WBCSD) in 1995 and Deloitte professionals economy consistency between a company’s various reports a common sustainability vision and management continue to participate in several council initiatives. BIO by Deloitte in France is currently participating to different stakeholders. The World Bank is among framework, Deloitte Belgium’s practitioners Accelerating access to education Deloitte U.S. is particularly active in WBCSD’s Water in two key studies on circular economy for the first group of companies participating in this benchmarked against a dozen universities’ Leadership Group, which sets strategic direction, the European Commission and the French program. Deloitte Netherlands is supporting the sustainability programs. Using what they learned, Advancing environmental provides quality assurance on content of outputs, Environmental Agency which will help pave the World Bank in creating its FY2014 G4 XBRL Report the Deloitte Belgium team helped the University sustainability approves publications, and supports advocacy. way for this crucial paradigm shift. Deloitte France using the GRI Taxonomy (including the Financial build a tool to support the development of its Deloitte U.S. was engaged recently by the council also organized “New business models for a Circular Services Sector Supplement). sustainability strategy and helped its leaders define to develop the Guiding Principles and SelfEconomy,” a May 2014 Green Week event that their goals and objectives, roles and responsibilities, Assessment Tool supporting the WBCSD Pledge for provided constructive insights into how companies Deloitte Belgium—BASF-Deloitte-Elia Chair on and key actions in terms of sustainability. LEADING WITH INTEGRITY access to safe water, sanitation, and hygiene at the see the transition towards a circular economy and Sustainability workplace. the reduction in resource consumption and waste. The BASF-Deloitte-Elia Chair on Sustainability, Deloitte Denmark—Developing CSO/business The conference, which attracted more than 110 a joint project between Antwerp Management relationships Deloitte France—Driving European waste participants, helped strengthen Deloitte Frances School and the University of Antwerp’s Faculty Earlier this year, Deloitte Denmark Sustainability management policy leading position in assisting public authorities and of Applied Economics, aims to inspire embedded was chosen to work with the Danish Red Cross on In 2014, BIO by Deloitte, Deloitte France’s Center private companies in the transformation of current corporate responsibility policies throughout a publicly funded project to develop a new tools for Innovation and Excellence in Sustainability linear production and consumption models. the value chain and in every industry. Through for how strengthen the alliances between Civil Services, published a report on Extended Producer awareness building, research activities, and Society Organizations (CSO) and businesses. The Responsibility (EPR) in the EU-28. The report— Deloitte Netherlands—GRI digital reporting teaching, this collaboration between academics tools will focus on CSOs’ need for local anchorage which includes a general overview of EPR policies Deloitte Netherlands has been involved in the and business, including Deloitte Belgium, has and long term sustainability while helping to in Europe, detailed case studies, and a set of development of the GRI XBRL Taxonomy to a mission to shape future leaders and achieve ensure businesses’ need for direct engagement guiding principles for the further development promote digital sustainability reporting since thought leadership on sustainability. and short-term, quantifiable results. The goal is to and implementation of EPR schemes—is expected 2012. Deloitte Netherlands and GRI currently generate value for the businesses, the CSOs, and to impact the development of resource efficiency are promoting the “GRI XBRL Reports Program” the potential beneficiaries of the alliances. 41 Leading with integrity HOME Trust—fostered through quality, integrity, and consistency in every interaction— has been at the heart of Deloitte for 169 years. It’s more evident today than ever in our policies for risk management, data protection, independence, ethics, EXECUTIVE MESSAGE and how we engage in regulatory and public policy arenas. GLOBAL LEADER FOR CLIENTS DISRUPTION: LEADING THE PACK LEADING TOGETHER LEADING WITH INTEGRITY Quality and integrity Relentless focus on risk management Data privacy and security Regulatory and public policy engagement Ethics Independence Globally connected Global security Reporting process Metrics Photo credit: Nilesh Kujur, Deloitte Canada 42 Quality and integrity Leading governance Learn more about how the DTTL Global Center for Corporate Governance collaborates with HOME member firms to promote dialogue and activity on critical topic of corporate governance and its impact on corporations and their EXECUTIVE MESSAGE boards, investors, and others. GLOBAL LEADER FOR CLIENTS Photo credit: Deepal Jasvantlal Madalani, Deloitte U.S. DISRUPTION: LEADING THE PACK Strong governance and leadership structures DTTL Chief Executive Officer Barry Salzberg leads Determinations regarding the allocation of DTTL potential areas for operational improvements. As its help Deloitte member firms maintain high levels and manages the Executive. Salzberg began his Board seats are made by the Board Composition name suggests, the Chairman and CEO Evaluation of quality and integrity, allowing them to sustain four-year term on 1 June 2011. His appointment was Committee every four years with an interim review and CEO Compensation Committee objectively the trust of their clients, their people, the capital ratified by the partners of the individual member after two years. Board composition is multicultural evaluates the goals and objectives of the CEO LEADING TOGETHER markets, and the public. firms. Salzberg appoints the members of the with proportionate representation of member firms. and Chairman, and recommends appropriate Executive subject to approval by the Governance compensation for the CEO. As a global network comprising Deloitte Touche Committee of the DTTL Board of Directors. Gender is considered by member firms as they elect Tohmatsu Limited (DTTL), its member firms, and individuals to these positions. There are currently Member firm leadership LEADING WITH INTEGRITY each of their affiliates in more than 150 countries During FY2014, the Executive was composed three women board members. Moreover, the To foster effective and responsive management and territories, Deloitte has governance and of 19 members. Two new members joined the CEOs of the Canada, France, UK, and U.S. member within member firms, DTTL has adopted standards Quality and integrity management structures in place at both the global committee, replacing members who retired or firms, who hold board seats, have exercised their describing specific leadership and governance and member firm levels. completed their terms as member firm leaders. rights, under DTTL’s constitutional documents, to structures to be implemented by member firms, Relentless focus on risk designate alternates, all of whom are women in including: The DTTL Executive The DTTL Board management FY2015 (started 1 June 2014). The Executive, composed of senior leaders from The Board of Directors is DTTL’s highest governing • A formal management structure, including an DTTL and certain member firms, is responsible for body. The Board addresses DTTL’s most important Members of the Governance Committee are drawn elected chief executive officer or managing Data privacy and security establishing DTTL’s vision and strategy. These senior governance issues, such as global strategies, major from the 12 member firms that are considered to partner who is responsible for managing the leaders have DTTL management responsibility in transactions, and the election of the CEO. During have the greatest impact on the network based on member firm and working with the member Regulatory and public policy areas such as: FY2014, the Board’s 32 members represented 15 a number of metrics including, but not restricted firm’s leaders to align its functional and client engagement member firms covering more than 50 countries. to, revenue. The Committee engages in open strategies with DTTL; • Clients, services, and talent; Among the Board’s committees is a standing discussions of issues and matters within its purview Ethics and makes recommendations to the Board of • A governing body, such as a board of directors, • Operations; Governance Committee, which exercises oversight of DTTL’s management. Directors. Each committee member has one vote to facilitate sound governance of the individual Independence • Regulatory; and on matters considered by the committee, except practice, including, among other things, the Steve Almond is the current Chairman of the DTTL for the CEO, who is ex-officio. To avoid conflicts of establishment of a formal nominating committee Globally connected • Legal | Office of General Counsel [an ex-officio Board. Like Salzberg, he began his four-year term of process to select the chief executive officer or position]. interest, no member of the Governance Committee office on 1 June 2011. may also serve on the Executive, except for the CEO. managing partner of the member firm; and Global security The Executive complement also includes Board members are appointed by individual • A representative, typically the chief executive The Board’s other subcommittees are responsible Reporting process 10 member firm CEOs from those countries which member firms that are themselves selected based officer or managing partner, to represent the for considering and recommending action on a have the greatest revenue impact on the network. on size, the number of significant clients they serve, member firm at the DTTL World Meeting. wide range of issues falling within their remit. They Metrics Additionally, there are three regional managing and other factors. The Board also includes three The World Meeting is held annually to include Board Composition, Succession, Risk, Audit directors, covering EMEA, the Americas, and Asiaregional seats, ensuring smaller member firms are discuss strategy and initiatives proposed by & Finance, Membership Affairs, and Chairman and Pacific. The DTTL leaders of Risk & Reputation represented. Members of the DTTL Board are senior DTTL management. Representatives vote on CEO Evaluation and CEO Compensation. and Strategy, Growth & Brand join the Executive member firm partners or principals and are usually specific DTTL matters, such as approval of as participating nonmembers as the agenda is on the executives or boards of their member firms. The Board performs an annual self-assessment Board members, financial statements, voting relevant. The Executive works in a collegial style to gather feedback on its collective performance entitlements of the member firms, and changes and reaches decisions through consensus. from individual Board members and to identify in the governing documents. 43 Relentless focus on risk management Leading with vigilance and resiliency Deloitte named a global leader in Business Consulting Services for Governance, Risk and HOME Compliance by IDC MarketScape Source: IDC MarketScape: Worldwide Business Consulting Services for Governance, Risk, and Compliance 2013 EXECUTIVE MESSAGE Vendor Assessment by Cushing Anderson, Kerry Smith, Vivian Tero, August 2013, IDC #242352 GLOBAL LEADER Deloitte named a leader in Global FOR CLIENTS Risk Management Consulting Services by Gartner Gartner does not endorse any vendor, product or service Photo credit: Manuela Caballero, Deloitte LATCO depicted in its research publications, and does not advise DISRUPTION: LEADING technology users to select only those vendors with the highest ratings or other designation. Gartner research THE PACK publications consist of the opinions of Gartner’s research The global risk landscape is significantly more FY2014, DTTL took a number of actions to sustain policies are applicable for all areas in a member organization and should not be construed as statements complex, dynamic, and rapidly evolving than the Deloitte network’s commitment to quality and firm’s professional and practice management of fact. Gartner disclaims all warranties, expressed or ever before. Though beset with uncertainties and risk management, and enhance its ability to be “risk functions and are critical to providing consistent implied, with respect to this research, including any challenges, it also abounds with opportunities for intelligent” and “risk resilient.” They included: high-quality service to clients and protecting and warranties of merchantability or fitness for a particular purpose. Source: Gartner, Magic Quadrant for Global LEADING TOGETHER the Deloitte network. enhancing the reputation of Deloitte member firms. Risk Management Consulting Services, 2014 • Continuing to enhance and support the As part of Deloitte’s relentless focus on Framework, both at the DTTL and member These policies are also designed to help member risk management, we have developed and firm levels; firms address unique considerations associated with quality control and risk management. Each member LEADING WITH INTEGRITY implemented an enterprise risk framework the delivery of consistent, high-quality services, • Creating a member firm framework council to firm is responsible for conducting its own practice (Framework) designed to identify, manage, while also challenging professionals to do the right foster the framework community by sharing reviews under the guidance and oversight of Quality and integrity monitor, and respond to risks which, if materialized, thing under any circumstance, even if that results leading practices across our network; DTTL. Held at least once every three years, these could impact our ability to achieve our strategies in declining a prospective client, engagement, or reviews assess whether member firms comply, at Relentless focus on risk and objectives—including the protection of our • Establishing more formal protocols to sense terminating an existing client relationship. a minimum, with DPM policies and are operating management reputation and brand, and member firms’ delivery the external environment so member firms may of consistent, high-quality services. The Framework The DPM includes a specific policy requirement effectively in practice. Practice reviews also assess more proactively identify potential brand events Data privacy and security also includes processes to regularly monitor the for each member firm to appoint a senior and the quality of work performed and services and matters, as well as emerging risks and trends environment for developments and changes that experienced “reputation and risk leader” (RRL) delivered by the member firms. that have the potential to negatively impact our Regulatory and public policy could impact our network’s risk profile, and identify who is responsible for leading his or her member network; Findings and recommendations arising from each engagement (and respond to) new and/or emerging trends that firm’s practice protection and risk management • Establishing the role of a DTTL chief program, with full support from senior risk leaders practice review are presented in a report and could impact its resiliency to those risks. Ethics confidentiality officer (CCO) to provide in each of the member firm’s functions. The RRLs management letter to DTTL and the member Deloitte continuously assesses the adequacy of strategic direction and a holistic approach to are members of member firm leadership and firm’s leadership. In response to the report, the its risk management processes and programs to confidentiality across our network; and responsible for developing and implementing robust, member firm is required to establish a detailed and Independence proactively address matters that may arise from the comprehensive, and strategic risk management corrective action plan that addresses the findings • Continuing to foster and strengthen the Deloitte and recommendations, together with a mechanism Globally connected internal and external environment, and promotes programs, including appropriate policies and risk network through the dissemination of for monitoring the resolution of the findings. a lessons-learned culture where professionals can procedures to address specific quality-control world-class risk workshops, tools, guidance, mplementation of the action plan is proactively Global security learn from each other’s experiences. To this end, our considerations. They also must implement consistent communication, and in-person meetings and monitored by the member firm and DTTL. network strives to ensure that its professionals— monitoring procedures to ascertain compliance with from senior leadership to staff—not only understand networking activities. DPM policies and procedures, and promote and Reporting process Practice review processes are continuously their collective and individual responsibilities for Consistent, rigorous policies and processes facilitate risk management learning. DPM policies enhanced to raise the bar on quality and risk Metrics quality, integrity, and commitment to ethical The DTTL Policies Manual (DPM) is the central can be supplemented by member firm policies that management, and to promote and achieve greater principles, but also are held accountable for repository for policies applicable to the Deloitte take into consideration local market practices, local consistency in the delivery of high-quality services fulfilling these responsibilities and obligations. network. It provides the basis for member firms laws, and regulations within their jurisdictions. across the network. to establish and implement consistent and Sustaining a risk-intelligent culture Practice reviews rigorous quality and risk management processes Our strong risk-intelligent culture helps enable Practice reviews serve as an inspection and and procedures, and sets forth policies for which member firms to deliver excellence to clients and monitoring mechanism and are a critical member firm compliance is mandatory. These fulfill the expectations of key stakeholders. During component of the Deloitte network’s system of 44 Data privacy and security Leading information protection practices DTTL’s comprehensive global privacy policy took effect in August 2011. HOME This policy requires every member firm to put in place: • A privacy policy that defines principles to be EXECUTIVE MESSAGE followed in all data handling processes and systems and that meets the requirements of local laws, customs, and regulations; • A designated privacy leader; GLOBAL LEADER • A process for responding to privacy FOR CLIENTS incidents; and • Regular privacy communications and Photo credit: Ping Kin Shea, Deloitte China training programs for member firm people. DISRUPTION: LEADING THE PACK Few organizations are as active as Deloitte in information security specialists provide guidance to establish seamless confidentiality controls and helping business and government institutions to member firms to strengthen their information processes across the Deloitte network. DTTL is predict, prepare for, and fight online attacks and security regimes when necessary. one of the few organizations in the world that has build cyber resilience. Our vigilance begins at home, a CCO. The group also is asking member firms to LEADING TOGETHER where it’s critical that we protect our own data A global application testing framework was appoint individuals to fill local roles similar to that and the information we hold on our people and adopted in FY2014, allowing greater capability of the DTTL CCO. member firm clients. in providing assurance that Deloitte’s in-house applications are protecting client data. Safe Harbor Certification LEADING WITH INTEGRITY Like many organizations, Deloitte is aggressively In November 2013, Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu assessing, testing, and adopting the best new Deloitte continually provides security education Services, Inc. (DTTS) recertified its adherence Quality and integrity technologies and services to understand how we programs for member firm practitioners and to the Safe Harbor Framework, which bridges can meet privacy and security standards. security professionals. All GTS staff globally are differences between U.S. and European Union Relentless focus on risk required to fulfill 40 hours of annual learning, and privacy laws. Re-certification follows an extensive management The Deloitte network has moved rapidly to keep several have obtained globally recognized security annual privacy-verification process. The Safe its privacy and security policies and practices certifications. In addition, in FY2014, three regional Harbor Framework was developed by the U.S. Data privacy and security up-to-date with global mandates and stakeholder workshops were conducted for in-house Deloitte Department of Commerce in consultation with expectations. DTTL’s global policy on information security professionals, an e-learning program on the European Commission, and provides a way for Regulatory and public policy security requires member firms to institute a wide social engineering rolled out, and Deloitte member U.S. organizations to achieve an adequate level engagement range of security measures, covering areas such firms participated in a global security week of protection of personal data as required by the as virus protection, data backup and recovery, campaign to enhance practitioner information European Union Data Protection Directive 95/46/EC. Ethics encryption, password authentication, access to security awareness. systems, and network security. The Safe Harbor Certification assists in meeting EU Emphasis on confidentiality data protection requirements with respect to data Independence Deloitte member firm compliance with security Deloitte continues to make major investments held on global systems in the United States. policies is tracked through an annual IT Standards, to protect client data and personally identifiable Globally connected Risk, and Maturity Assessment. Compliance with information. DTTL added a new Global Office of Because many member firm clients are security policies at the global hosting center level Confidentiality in 2014 to enhance the Deloitte multinational organizations that expect seamless, Global security is monitored through the DTTL Global Technology network’s approach to confidentiality and make its safe, and private data transfer as part of service Services (GTS) Security Forum. response to risk a strategic enabler. delivery, Deloitte is continuously reviewing its Reporting process compliance processes to facilitate the movement Self-assessment and education Deloitte is committed to becoming the profession’s Metrics of internal and member firm client data in line with DTTL has a privacy self-assessment system to leader in setting the standard for protecting local legal requirements. monitor privacy program maturity across the confidential information. DTTL has created the network using 20 different criteria. This is helping position of chief confidentiality officer (CCO), DTTL and its member firms understand which reporting to both DTTL’s chief risk officer and tools, if any, could further strengthen information chief information officer. The CCO will lead the protection and privacy within Deloitte. DTTL’s business imperative of working with member firms 45 Regulatory and public policy engagement Collaborative leadership drives results HOME EXECUTIVE MESSAGE GLOBAL LEADER FOR CLIENTS Photo credit: Diego Urrestarazú, Deloitte LATCO DISRUPTION: LEADING THE PACK Deloitte is an active participant in the dynamic “Continuing to work with government and Coordinated initiatives regulatory and public-policy discussions around investors to improve audit quality and strengthen The DTTL Global Regulatory and Public Policy the world. Deloitte professionals engage with key company reporting is one of the greatest Group and member firms continue to strengthen stakeholders—government, political, business, and contributions we can make to the capital markets, relationships with external policy makers— LEADING TOGETHER civil society—to contribute to policy development and remains a key priority for Deloitte,” says Jeff including the G20/B20, the Asia-Pacific Economic that promotes investor confidence, facilitates crossPotts, Deloitte Global Regulatory and Public Policy Cooperation (APEC), and local government and border business growth, and supports economic Leader. “However during the past year, we have political leaders—who share our concerns on success, growth, resilience, and sustainability. also strengthened our efforts toward helping solve issues impacting sustainable economic growth and LEADING WITH INTEGRITY broader societal challenges through the sharing of development. Given our role in the capital markets, audit quality the broad insights and experiences of our 210,000 Quality and integrity and auditor independence remains a key focus plus member firm professionals. We bring the real, During FY2014, we strengthened our collaboration for Deloitte firms. We continue to collaborate with key policy-influencers such as the Organisation live impact of government policy to the table; Relentless focus on risk with stakeholders, including regulators and other for Economic Co-operation and Development contributing to practical outcomes that we believe management government groups, on the future role of auditors, will build a more sustainable society.” (OECD) through its Business and Industry Advisory improving audit quality and the future of audit Committee (BIAC); the World Economic Forum; and Data privacy and security reports. We also continue to be engaged in various Examples of issues where Deloitte contributes its the German Marshall Fund of the United States, financial market standard-setting and public-policy capabilities include: responsible taxation; corporate just to name a few. Regulatory and public policy forums. governance; immigration and the mobility of engagement people; anti-corruption; technology and security; Member firm participation During FY2014, Deloitte member firms in jobs and skills, including youth employment; trade In FY2014, member firms built deeper and Europe closely monitored and engaged with Ethics and investment; and women in the economy. stronger local engagement programs in order to stakeholders as the EU developed its audit provide more valuable contributions to myriad legislation, which will become applicable in June Deloitte has also greatly enhanced its contribution Independence socio-economic policy challenges. Issues member 2016. Many of the legislative changes will serve to trade in services liberalization discussions, firms focused on this year included skills and to strengthen corporate governance and enhance including communicating obstacles companies— Globally connected mobility, diversity, education, productivity, regional the transparency of audits to investors and audit and professional services firms—face in doing economic integration, and technology and committees, which include expanding the scope business across borders. We follow and engage in Global security connectivity. of reporting by the auditor. We also engaged in specific trade expansion negotiations—including discussions on other long-term capital market Trade in Services Agreement (TiSA),Trans-Pacific Through the combined activities of our member Reporting process sustainability issues. These include our work with Partnership (TPP), and Transatlantic-Trade firms, Deloitte is contributing to shared publicthe International Integrated Reporting Council, our and Investment Partnership (TTIP)—through interest goals within the marketplace and Metrics professional associations, and others. contributions to international business associations, contributing to a better and stronger society. international inter-governmental organizations, and direct discussions with trade representatives and other key trade policy participants. 46 Ethics Leading with integrity HOME EXECUTIVE MESSAGE GLOBAL LEADER FOR CLIENTS Photo credit: Nilesh Kujur, Deloitte Canada DISRUPTION: LEADING THE PACK Ethics go to the heart of our work, people, and issues, supplement “Ethics in Action—The Power of Deloitte’s annual member firm ethics survey, which role in society. That’s why DTTL’s Global Ethics One,” a course that builds ethical radar and allows measures awareness and effectiveness of member team continues to aggressively integrate ethics into Deloitte personnel to analyze and explore myriad firm ethics programs, continues to be enhanced key initiatives and processes, stressing quality and dilemmas. to better capture information about perceptions LEADING TOGETHER consistency of approach across our network. In of ethical culture and tone at the top. Member particular, we have heightened our focus on antiDeloitte has embedded ethical issues and dilemmas firms use the results of the survey to create action corruption, creating new guidelines for corruption into the business simulations experienced by all plans for continuous improvement of their ethics incoming member firm partners at the Global New risk assessment and third-party due diligence. programs. LEADING WITH INTEGRITY Partner Seminar, an annual three-day leadership When it comes to ethics, setting the tone at the conference for this group of new leaders. DTTL Global Ethics continues to seek opportunities to Quality and integrity top is essential to creating a culture of integrity Ethics continues to work with learning teams raise awareness of ethical conduct, compliance throughout the Deloitte organization. “Our Global throughout Deloitte to incorporate similar exercises with policies and standards, and available resources Relentless focus on risk Ethics team works with member firm leaders across into new-hire orientation, manager training, and to support ethical decision making. To that end, management the Deloitte network to gather examples of ethical other programs. we will expand efforts related to anti-corruption behavior that demonstrate our values and principles in FY2015 with a focus on developing new Data privacy and security in action,” says Gianmario Crescentino, Deloitte Global Ethics also works to integrate ethics across guidelines and e-learning to address this important Global Chief Ethics Officer, Chief Risk Officer and the Deloitte University curriculum so that ethics is business risk. not treated as a standalone topic, but instead, is Regulatory and public policy Managing Director, Risk and Reputation. “We then engagement share those examples, because nothing is more part of the conversation across many disciplines. Deloitte member firms strive to uphold the trust powerful than a personal story to make ethics real placed in them by clients and the capital markets Measuring impact and to build a similar sense of trust among Ethics for our people, and to continue to educate them DTTL’s ethics practice review program is conducted their professionals. One of the most important and encourage the right behaviors.” Independence on a rotational basis to measure member firm responsibilities of DTTL and member firm senior The Global Ethics team and the member firm ethics compliance with global policy and support leaders is to emphasize our commitment to officers work together to design and implement continuous improvement in ethics program ethical behavior and reinforce the responsibility of Globally connected policies and programs to promote and sustain management. In FY2014, 14 Deloitte member everyone in the organization to act with integrity. ethical conduct by Deloitte professionals. Ethics firms were visited by the DTTL Global Ethics team Global security training is required for all Deloitte professionals and other ethics leaders from the member firm The DTTL Ethics team and the member firm ethics every two years. network. Reviews conducted this past year have officers work closely with senior Deloitte leaders to Reporting process been further enhanced, including discussions with carry out the organization’s ethics programs. These During FY2014, Global Ethics introduced two learning, talent, and functional risk leaders to programs are designed to help member firm people Metrics new classroom learning programs designed to help ensure ethics is embedded into key risk and understand expectations for ethical behavior, build ethical sensitivity and decision-making skills people processes. develop skills for ethical decision making, and gain among new Deloitte managers and new hires, two the confidence to speak up about challenging critically important member firm employee groups. ethical situations. These programs, which provide opportunities for engagement and discussion on tough ethical 47 DTTL’s formal ethics program is composed of the In addition, Deloitte plays a role in various Ethical Principles of the member firms of DTTL HOME following elements: multilateral efforts to promote ethical conduct in All of the Deloitte member firms have adopted the business world. The efforts in which Deloitte the following Ethical Principles, which provide the • The nine Ethical Principles and four Shared participates include: foundation for their ethics programs: Values of the Deloitte member firms; • World Economic Forum’s Partnering Against • Honesty and Integrity. We act with honesty EXECUTIVE MESSAGE • A global ethics policy that sets out the Corruption Initiative (PACI) and integrity. requirements for member firms’ own ethics programs; –– James Cottrell, Partner, Deloitte Financial • Professional Behavior. We operate within the Advisory Services LLP (Deloitte U.S.), is a letter and the spirit of applicable laws. • A global anti-corruption policy that addresses senior advisor to the PACI Vanguard, a GLOBAL LEADER matters such as bribery, facilitation payments, • Competence. We bring appropriate skills and FOR CLIENTS community of 20 global CEOs committed to political and charitable contributions, and gifts capabilities to every client assignment. zero tolerance against corruption; and entertainment; –– DTTL Global Deputy Chief Ethics Officer • Objectivity. We are objective in forming our • Ethics training programs, including an professional opinions and the advice we give. Jennifer Quartana Guethoff was a member introductory online course, classroom programs, of a PACI working group to revise the DISRUPTION: LEADING facilitator-led interactive case discussions and • Confidentiality. We respect the confidentiality PACI Principles and their supporting of information. THE PACK online training course; implementation guidelines; and • Support activities, including communications, • Fair Business Practices. We are committed to –– Deloitte member firms do pro bono work fair business practices. workshops, and webinars to facilitate best for PACI related to aviation industry antipractice sharing among member firms; • Responsibility to Society. We recognize and LEADING TOGETHER corruption efforts. • Provision of a survey and self-assessment respect the impact we have on the world • UN Global Compact. Cottrell and Mohammed around us. questionnaire to allow member firms to measure Ahmed, Senior Manager, Deloitte Financial their program’s effectiveness; and • Respect and Fair Treatment. We treat all our Advisory Services (Deloitte U.S), co-chair a subcommittee on anti-corruption. colleagues with respect, courtesy, and fairness. LEADING WITH INTEGRITY • A practice review program to measure compliance with global ethics policies and Accountability and Decision-making. We • Business 20 (B20) Business Summit. DTTL • Quality and integrity encourage collaborative discussions and lead by example, using our Shared Values as our is a member of the B20 working group on continuous improvement over time. foundation: anti-corruption and transparency. Deloitte Relentless focus on risk representatives include Chairman of the DTTL –– Integrity; management Board Steve Almond and Futhi Mtoba, former chairman, Deloitte Southern Africa. –– Outstanding value to markets and clients; Data privacy and security • University of Notre Dame Deloitte Center for –– Commitment to each other; and Regulatory and public policy Ethical Leadership. Michael Zychinski, Chief –– Strength from cultural diversity. engagement Ethics and Compliance Officer, Deloitte LLP (Deloitte U.S.), sits on the advisory board. Ethics • Conference Board. Guethoff served as executive committee chair of the Conference Independence Board’s Global Council on Business Conduct in FY2014. Globally connected Global security Reporting process Metrics 48 Independence Leading with objectivity HOME EXECUTIVE MESSAGE GLOBAL LEADER FOR CLIENTS Photo credit: Eric Chun Wang, Deloitte China DISRUPTION: LEADING THE PACK Independence and quality are the foundations DTTL’s independence policies and procedures Leading through change upon which Deloitte is built. They are essential to are designed to allow member firms to comply Deloitte member firms face a dynamic regulatory our integrity, our impartiality, our obligation to with independence standards and regulatory environment. DTTL has independence resources serve the investing public, and Deloitte member requirements to achieve excellence in professional that provide member firms with information LEADING TOGETHER firms’ ability to retain and attract clients. performance. These policies and procedures and guidance on independence issues, as well are based, for the most part, on the Code of as enabling technologies to help member firms Standards for independence are shaped by Ethics for Professional Accountants issued by comply with rapidly changing requirements. legislation, regulations, professional guidance, and the International Ethics Standards Board for These DTTL resources continually engage with LEADING WITH INTEGRITY public expectations. Maintaining independence, Accountants. When the national professional member firm leaders, and external professional therefore, is both a matter of compliance with rules requirements that apply are more restrictive than and regulatory bodies, to advance objectivity and Quality and integrity and regulations and a matter of appearance. the requirements in the DTTL policies, member independence concepts. Protecting the public interest firms must follow those requirements, as well. Relentless focus on risk Deloitte member firms comply with wellmanagement Maintaining internal compliance established policies and implement appropriate Deloitte member firms frequently serve the same procedures to help safeguard their objectivity and Data privacy and security clients in multiple jurisdictions. Each member independence. These policies and procedures help firm considering whether to accept a new client ensure member firms act in the interests of both Regulatory and public policy or engagement must consider the independence engagement the public and their clients, as well as protect our needs of other member firms. For existing brand and reputation. audit clients, a member firm must evaluate the Ethics The DTTL Board of Directors has adopted robust independence implications of other member independence policies and processes to help DTTL firms’ relationships with that client, including the Independence and its member firms, and their people, safeguard provision of non-audit services. their objectivity. DTTL requires all of its member Globally connected Each member firm has a partner assigned with firms to follow DTTL’s independence policies and responsibility for the independence quality procedures, which address potential conflicts, Global security controls in the member firm, including monitoring within or among member firms, arising from the compliance with those controls. On an annual proposed acceptance of client engagements or Reporting process basis, all member firms report to DTTL that they proposed business or financial relationships. have conducted procedures for determining that Metrics each firm and its professionals are in compliance with DTTL’s independence policies. 49 Globally connected Structured to lead HOME EXECUTIVE MESSAGE GLOBAL LEADER FOR CLIENTS DISRUPTION: LEADING THE PACK The Deloitte network is made up of firms that are This structure confers significant strengths: a deep members of Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Limited understanding of local markets and a sense of (DTTL), a UK private company limited by guarantee. responsibility among member firms professionals, This structure allows the member firm network to who have a direct stake in the integrity and growth LEADING TOGETHER be a leader at all levels—locally, nationally, and of their local practices. globally—because its central governance policies are sensitive to the professional environments and Global cooperation cultures of individual countries. Individual member Deloitte member firms support and adhere to the LEADING WITH INTEGRITY firms have access to the skills and knowledge of purposes and policies of DTTL by: other member firms, the ability to consult with • Conducting themselves in a manner that sustains Quality and integrity the entire Deloitte network, and the benefit of the the reputation of the Deloitte member firm network’s market recognition and reputation. DTTL network; Relentless focus on risk itself does not provide services to clients. management • Aligning national plans, strategies, and Member firm structure operations with those of DTTL, as appropriate, in Data privacy and security The partners of Deloitte member firms are generally consultation with DTTL’s executive management; the sole owners of their respective member firms. Regulatory and public policy Their member firms are organized on an individual • Adhering to DTTL’s requirements regarding engagement country or regional basis, and each operates within professional standards, shared values, the legal and regulatory framework of its particular methodologies, governance, and systems of Ethics jurisdiction. They are separate and independent quality control and risk; and firms that are owned and managed locally. These • Advising DTTL of all proposed joint ventures, Independence firms have come together to practice under a joint practices, mergers, and other cooperation common brand, methodologies, client service arrangements and combinations of any type Globally connected standards, and other professional standards and with other member firms, as well as practice guidelines. activity in jurisdictions other than those assigned Global security The member firm structure fosters compliance to the member firm. Reporting process with rules of local ownership and management governing the accountancy profession in many Metrics countries. It also reflects the fact that the member firms are not subsidiaries or branch offices of a global parent. Rather, they are separate and distinct locally formed legal entities that have voluntarily joined the network to coordinate their approach to client service. 50 Global security Leading talent safety HOME EXECUTIVE MESSAGE GLOBAL LEADER FOR CLIENTS DISRUPTION: LEADING THE PACK The primary focus of the DTTL Global Security Watching world events When member firm engagement teams cannot Office (GSO) is to keep Deloitte’s people safe, The GSO team also tracks world events on a daily avoid traveling to high-risk locations, the GSO can particularly during times of emergency or when basis for potential impacts on Deloitte’s people and assist them with designing comprehensive security they are called upon by clients to work in highermember firms. Whenever a crisis occurs, GSO, in plans, including location-specific security briefings, LEADING TOGETHER risk areas. A comprehensive program has been put conjunction with DTTL’s Global Crisis Management hotel and transportation recommendations, in place to address ever-present threats around the Team, responds swiftly to help member firms on-the-ground project logistics, and direct security globe. “Clearly, our people are Deloitte’s number account for the safety of their people, provide support, as needed. In doing so, GSO leverages a one asset, and we take our obligation to protect necessary relief, and resume normal business network of specialized security providers who are LEADING WITH INTEGRITY them very seriously,” says Ted Almay, DTTL Global operations as soon as possible. based in many high-risk locations. Security Officer. Quality and integrity Threats come in many sizes and forms, including DTTL maintains a global relationship with a During FY2014, the GSO implemented several new geopolitical instability, crime, and natural disasters. leading emergency medical and security provider Relentless focus on risk approaches to better serve Deloitte professionals “For example, GSO assisted in evacuating 88 to quickly mobilize resources to assist Deloitte management and member firms. Principal among these programs Deloitte practitioners from several member firms travelers and immediate family members whether was the hiring of three DTTL regional security following an attempted coup in South Sudan in they are on business or personal travel. The GSO Data privacy and security managers based in Brazil, the Netherlands, and mid-December 2013,” Almay says. “This required team responded to 144 medical-assistance cases in Singapore. “Having security leaders in the regions close coordination with the United Nations, and FY2014. Regulatory and public policy puts us closer to our member firms and helps us to we were able to secure the only available aircraft to engagement be better prepared to deal with crises where they The GSO continues to focus on raising the get our people safely out of the country.” A month are happening,” Almay explains. awareness of Deloitte people to ensure they are earlier, Typhoon Haiyan devastated the Philippines. Ethics aware of particular risks before they travel. GSO Almay notes, “Although our local member firm The GSO team leverages the infrastructure and best offers a “Know Before You Go” series of generalprofessionals were not directly impacted, DTTL and Independence practices of its largest member firms through the travel and country-specific e-learning courses and the South East Asia member firm’s Philippine office formation of a new steering committee. Security videos. In cooperation with Deloitte Brazil, GSO professionals from GSO and DTTL’s three largest took extra measures to help move stranded family launched one such program prior to the FIFA World Globally connected members to safety.” member firms comprise the group, which serves in Cup. GSO also introduced an online presentation an advisory role to help build out the organization’s titled, “Staying Safe: Maintaining a Low Profile Global security Risk awareness for travelers global security strategy. This committee Deloitte member firms may have more than 20,000 While Traveling Abroad.” supplements the existing Global Security Council, Reporting process people traveling to serve clients on any given day. Deloitte professionals have access to a which is a network of Deloitte security and risk GSO provided guidance and security planning professionals, and other leaders from the majority comprehensive travel security website containing Metrics support in FY2014 for more than 880 member firm the latest security bulletins, assessments, country of Deloitte member firms. engagement teams that were considering work in risk ratings and other resources for travelers. DTTL potentially troublesome areas of the world. As part also uses a mobile application from its emergency of DTTL’s global travel security protocols, member services provider that allows Deloitte practitioners firms are encouraged to incorporate security into to receive the latest security and health alerts and their travel programs and consult with the GSO to access other resources. before undertaking travel to high-risk locations. 51 Reporting process Keeping you informed and answering your questions A full list of the stakeholders with whom Deloitte engages and the issues they value is available in the stakeholder HOME engagement summary. Our ongoing engagement helps us report on the right issues, in addition to keeping stakeholders informed of EXECUTIVE MESSAGE our business strategy. Our materiality matrix classifies these issues into three categories according to their relative rankings. GLOBAL LEADER FOR CLIENTS A detailed description of this report’s boundaries and the performance Photo credit: Deepal Jasvantlal Madalani, Deloitte U.S. measurement methods used is available in the basis of reporting section. DISRUPTION: LEADING THE PACK One of the chief objectives for the Global Report MATERIALITY MATRIX is to provide all of Deloitte stakeholders with a truly global and balanced picture of our network’s Issue is of critical strategic interest to Deloitte member firms impact on society and commitment to remaining and stakeholders LEADING TOGETHER Client satisfaction/value of service a leader in our professions. We strive to address Issue is actively managed their interests and questions, while explaining our Corporate responsibility commitment Frequent interaction with key stakeholders occurs motivation, priorities, and approaches. We identify key stakeholders as those who: Diversity and fair treatment LEADING WITH INTEGRITY CONCERN TO STAKEHOLDERS Issue is actively managed by Deloitte and discussed with Employee development constituents that have a direct stake • Help influence Deloitte’s success; Quality and integrity Ethics and integrity • Are highly affected by what we do; Governance, risk, and compliance Issue of concern to select member firms and stakeholders Relentless focus on risk • Effect the markets, regulations, and industries in management Privacy and data security Generally managed through member firm programs which we operate; or Protection of public interest • Affect the supply of resources that we need to Data privacy and security serve our clients, talent, and society. Community engagement CATEGORY AREAS INCLUDED Regulatory and public policy Stakeholders likely to read the Global Report Environmental performance Ethics Anti-corrpution engagement include current and prospective Deloitte Physical security Protection of Transparency, public policy positions, employees, member firms’ clients and suppliers, Supply chain risks/issues public interest professional standards, Ethics media, market analysts, and civil society Work-life balance professional performance organizations, among many others. Independence Compensation Community Includes range of community engagement engagement activities, for example, youth education In addition to this report, Deloitte engages Health and safety Globally connected continuously with its key stakeholders, both Human rights Environmental Includes greenhouse gas emissions, energy internally and externally. In the last year, as part performance usage, water, material usage, and waste Global security Labor rights of stakeholder engagement activities specific to preparing this report, we asked our talent for their Reporting process views on which corporate responsibility issues mattered most to them, and we also studied the CURRENT OR POTENTIAL IMPACT ON MEMBER FIRMS Metrics leading issues about which major clients inquired to ensure Deloitte was addressing their needs. 52 FY2014 Stakeholder engagement summary Key stakeholder groups Engagement approach and typical Sample of representative Sample topics Type of response (may vary Areas of high stakeholder concern frequency of interaction members across Deloitte) Member firm clients Ongoing • Publicly traded company • Service needs of clients • New service offerings • Ethics and integrity clients, including their audit • Client interaction during • Independence • Organizing client service around • Client satisfaction HOME engagements committees and boards of industries • Ethics • Governance, risk, and compliance directors • Client satisfaction process • Security and privacy • Lead client service roles and • Protection of public interest • Closely held company responsibility • Business development activities concerns • Anti-corruption clients • Conferences • Value of trusted advisor • Adoption of anti-corruption • Corporate responsibility EXECUTIVE MESSAGE • Government clients policy • Proposal responses and follow up on relationship commitment • Nonprofit clients • Adoption of policy regarding losses • Need for industry • Privacy and data security • Past and potential clients understanding privacy programs and leadership • Client questionnaires • Environmental performance • Sustainability reporting • IT security policies GLOBAL LEADER • Supply chain risks/issues • Supply chain risks and • Voluntary sustainability FOR CLIENTS reporting • Value of service standards • Supply chain policies and codes of conduct • Chief Confidentiality Officer DISRUPTION: LEADING Deloitte people, their Ongoing • Current, former, retired, and • Job satisfaction elements • Flexible work arrangements • Employee development THE PACK families, and future • 24/7 support and emergency hotlines prospective employees • Work-life balance • Benefits package changes • Diversity and fair treatment talent • Spouses/partners, children, • Internal discussions • Career advancement • Extension of certain services to • Ethics and integrity and family members of family members • Alumni network Deloitte employees • Fair treatment • Client satisfaction LEADING TOGETHER • Social media, external and internal • Privacy • Mentoring programs • Privacy and data security • Recruiting events • Security • Coaching programs • Governance, risk, and compliance • Exit interviews • Contributions to society • Opportunities for global • Corporate responsibility • Confidential ethics hotline • Environmentally sustainable deployments commitment from leadership LEADING WITH INTEGRITY operations • Industry training • Protection of public interest • Training sessions Quality and integrity • Access to technology • Wellness programs • Public policy positions • Community involvement and volunteering opportunities • Diversity • Updates to software and • Environmental performance Relentless focus on risk hardware management Multiple times a year • Ethics • Health and safety • Education, safety, and support • Performance reviews • Travel and mobility • Community engagement mobile applications Data privacy and security • Employee councils • Labor rights • Volunteering programs • Advisory councils • Compensation Regulatory and public policy • Ensuring safety of engagement • Town-hall meetings • Work/life balance engagement teams • Affinity groups • Professional standards Ethics Annual basis • Professional performance • People survey Independence • Partner meetings Globally connected Governments and Ongoing and/or ad hoc • National financial market • Auditor independence • Participation in advisory and • Protection of public interest regulators • Contribution to shaping of new regulators • Transparency advocacy groups • Anti-corruption Global security regulation • Audit oversight bodies • Quality • Independence policies and • Public-policy positions • Collaboration on policy • Finance ministers and • Competitiveness of markets monitoring • Ethics and integrity Reporting process • Participation in development of central bank governors • Audit standards • Diversity • Diversity and fair treatment Metrics standards • Responses to reviews • Corporate governance • Governance, risk, and compliance • Website and current event monitoring • Employee diversity programs • Confidentiality and data • Privacy and data security • Responsiveness to inquiries privacy • Supplier diversity programs • Health and safety Annual or regular recurring basis • Issuance of transparency reports • Transparency • Quality/performance reviews • Environmental performance 53 Key stakeholder groups Engagement approach and typical Sample of representative Sample topics Type of response (may vary Areas of high stakeholder concern frequency of interaction members across Deloitte) Professional Ongoing • Associations of certified/ • Governance • Standards for engagement • Professional standards associations chartered accountants acceptance and performance • Involvement in committees and • Barrier-free trade • Professional performance HOME working groups • Associations of tax • Sustainable development • Peer reviews • Employee development • Representation on leadership councils professionals • Commentaries on proposed • Adherence to professional • Public-policy positions • Attendance at conferences • Management consulting performance standards standards • Ethics and integrity professional associations • Training EXECUTIVE MESSAGE Ad hoc • Standards for auditing of • Governance, risk, and compliance • Financial advisory non-financial information • Thoughtware • Collaboration on industry white • Protection of public interest professional associations papers • Strategy formulation • Speaking engagements GLOBAL LEADER • Participation in development of standards FOR CLIENTS Nonprofit organizations Ongoing • Global Business • Training • Skills-based volunteering • Youth education and and local communities • Board representation Coalition-Education • Performance improvement • Community volunteering unemployment • Pro bono engagements • Junior Achievement • Funding • IMPACT day • Diversity and fair treatment DISRUPTION: LEADING Worldwide Ethics and integrity • Collaborations • Marketing • Pro bono engagements • THE PACK • Teach For All • Anti-corruption • Volunteering • Specific agendas germane • Foundation and firm monetary • CDP (formerly Carbon to their cause (e.g., and in-kind gifts • Human rights • Social media Disclosure Project) sustainability, education, • Electronic mail • Voluntary sustainability • Transparency • International Organization humanitarian action, reporting • Corporate responsibility LEADING TOGETHER • Meetings and conferences for Migration diversity, etc.) commitment • Speaking engagements • Local business and • Local business promotion • Public-policy positions community organizations • Transparency in reporting • Privacy and data security • Cross-sector collaboration LEADING WITH INTEGRITY • Environmental performance • Community involvement Quality and integrity • Protection of public interest • Social progress and equality Relentless focus on risk management International Ongoing • United Nations • Establishment of and • Pro bono engagements • Ethics and integrity multi-stakeholder • Steering committee memberships • World Economic Forum adherence to international • Internal and external training • Anti-corruption Data privacy and security organizations norms • Organizational stakeholder meetings • World Business Council for • Thoughtware • Public policy • Understanding of Regulatory and public policy Sustainable Development • Working towards integrated • Protection of public frameworks and initiatives engagement • International Integrated reporting for Deloitte • Diversity and fair treatment Reporting Committee • Economic, social, and • Voluntary reporting on • Education Ethics humanitarian development • Global Reporting Initiative sustainability • Youth unemployment • International Business • GHG reduction targets in place Independence • Governance, risk, and compliance Leaders Forum or in development (varies across member firms) • Corporate responsibility Globally connected • Cross-industry business commitment alliances • Privacy and data security Global security • Environmental performance Reporting process • Human rights • Health and safety Metrics • Community engagement • Physical security • Social progress and equality 54 Key stakeholder groups Engagement approach and typical Sample of representative Sample topics Type of response (may vary Areas of high stakeholder concern frequency of interaction members across Deloitte) Suppliers Ongoing • Software suppliers • Contract terms including • Establishment of alliances • Ethics and integrity pricing and payment • Negotiations • Hardware suppliers • Establishment of preferred • Anti-corruption HOME • Meetings • Travel service suppliers • Features and functionality vendors • Diversity and fair treatment • Proposals • Consultants • Issue resolution • Establishment of green • Privacy and data security • Confidentiality purchasing practices • Industry meetings • Sales projections • Contracts EXECUTIVE MESSAGE • Opportunities for (mutual) • Supply chain audits sustainable solutions • Opportunities for collaboration GLOBAL LEADER FOR CLIENTS Industry and market Ongoing • Forrester • Client and market trends • Ongoing executive/ subject • Competitive landscape analysts • Global and member firm-specific • Gartner • Competitive landscape matter specialist relationships • Client value delivered program-based engagement • IDC MarketScape • Capabilities • Dialogue and shared insights • Client satisfaction strategy involving Deloitte executive Best practice exchanges leadership, subject-matter specialist, • Kennedy • Growth strategies • • Ethics and integrity DISRUPTION: LEADING • Verdantix • Leadership • Market trends analysis • Governance, risk, and compliance THE PACK and priority analyst stakeholders • Innovation • Participation in signature • Anti-corruption evaluative research • Priority markets • Corporate responsibility commitment LEADING TOGETHER Educational Ongoing • Students of high potential • Subject-matter knowledge • Volunteering • Education institutions/academia • Participation in programs that receive scholarships • New perspectives • Pro bono engagements • Ethics and integrity from Deloitte • Collaborations • Leading research • Matching gifts • Diversity and fair treatment • Recruiting • Career placement • Guest lecturers • Employee development LEADING WITH INTEGRITY • Guest lecturing and speaking • Funding of chairs and • Anti-corruption engagements scholarships at universities Quality and integrity • Human rights Relentless focus on risk management Data privacy and security Regulatory and public policy engagement Ethics Independence Globally connected Global security Reporting process Metrics 55 FY2014 Basis from financial reporting systems, other internal records, and outside sources such as travel agencies, utilities, and property managers. In Another change made in FY2014 was the elimination of the calculation of methane (CH4) and nitrous oxide (N2O) where published sources member firm (such as travel by family members in accordance with policies or travel by prospective DTTL and member firm professionals). The majority of reporting addition to adhering to the UN Global Compact and Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) 3.1 frameworks did not incorporate these into a carbon-dioxide equivalent (CO2e) factor. We also eliminated of business air travel data was obtained from DTTL and member firm travel systems. Much of the rest for reporting, this report was prepared according reconciling emission factors to a consistent set of was obtained from travel expense records. to the principles of inclusivity, materiality, and global warming potentials (GWP). Reporting these Scope and methods for performance The default GHG emission factors used to calculate responsiveness from the AA1000 AccountAbility greenhouse gases and using a consistent GWP measurements emissions from air travel were based on information Principles Standard (AA1000APS). source required a significant increase in emission Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Limited (DTTL) adhered factor tracking and complexity of calculations published by DEFRA. Flight segments were to widely accepted standards in developing this Emission factors without a material impact on the overall reporting identified by distance, and emission factors were report. These standards define a systematic DTTL and its member firms are encouraged to applied according to whether the flight segment HOME given the emission sources in the Deloitte footprint. approach to understanding the issues that select the most accurate, source-specific, localized, was categorized as long haul (more than 1108 the report should cover and measuring and and recently published GHG emission factor Our philosophy behind making these changes was km), medium haul (463 to 1108 km) or short haul documenting performance with regard to those available for each emission source, such as specific that the additional burden of reporting on these (less than 463 km). Where data on seat class was issues. Performance measures for societal impact emission factors for a local electric utility. Firms are sources was not adding value to our reporting available class-specific emission factors were also EXECUTIVE MESSAGE and environmental sustainability are based on also provided with default emission factors from commiserate with the resources required to track applied (e.g., First, Business, Premium Economy, widely recognized guidelines. For reporting on the following sources: and report. The goal in adopting this streamlined Economy). An uplift factor of 1.08 is now included societal impact, Deloitte observed standards from approach to reporting is to allow those working in in the DEFRA emission factor to account for the Committee Encouraging Corporate Philanthropy • The GHG Protocol published by the WRI and these areas to spend more of their time focused on nondirect routes, delays, and circling. The emission WBCSD GLOBAL LEADER (CECP) and the London Benchmarking Group advancing sustainable actions. factors used did not include radiative forcing or (LBG). The monetary value of community activities indirect emissions. FOR CLIENTS • The International Energy Agency (IEA) Building-related emission sources by member firm people was estimated according • The UK’s Department for Environment, Food and Building-related emission sources included in the During calculation of Deloitte U.S. air emissions to the type of service performed. The value of Rural Affairs (DEFRA) GHG emissions data of the Report were those it was determined that there was significantly volunteer work was based on local member firms’ associated with the use of electricity, heating more uncertainty associated with identifying DISRUPTION: LEADING staff costs. Pro bono work, defined as work that • The U.S. Department of Energy (US DOE) oil and natural gas in the office buildings and seat class for the U.S.-sourced data than was the member firms have delivered to nonprofit initially assumed when this practice started in THE PACK organizations free of charge or at a significantly data centers that DTTL member firms either own A compilation of emission factors used to calculate FY2012. After discussions with the travel agency reduced rate, has been valued at fair market rates or over which they have operational control. the data in the Report is included at the end of this and travel professionals internal to Deloitte U.S., representative of the local member firms’ client Upstream building-related emission sources, such section. differentiation of activity data by seat class was service rates for comparable services. Estimates as those associated with electric transmission and of carbon emissions were prepared according to Changes from FY2013 distribution line losses, were not included in the removed and Deloitte U.S. FY2014 emissions were LEADING TOGETHER GHG emissions inventory. based solely on the length of the flight. FY2012 and the Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Protocol Corporate In FY2014 DTTL made a number of changes to the FY2013 data included in the performance table was Accounting and Reporting Standard created by environmental reporting. Some of the activity data associated with buildingrevised to reflect this recalculation and the overall the World Resources Institute (WRI) and the World related emission sources was available directly After reviewing several years of data, we have change for each of these prior years was around a LEADING WITH INTEGRITY Business Council for Sustainable Development to the DTTL member firms. For example, some chosen to remove several sources of emissions 2 percent reduction in emissions. (WBCSD) with emissions accounted for on the facilities have direct utility meters or sub-meters basis of operational control. Deloitte has applied from the global footprint. We eliminated tracking Business travel — Road Quality and integrity of refrigerants, district heating, and district cooling from which DTTL member firms obtain readings. recent, authoritative, and locally specific GHG For facilities that have no available meter data, Reported GHG emissions from business travel by emissions factors as available and as appropriate at an aggregate network level. In FY2013 these Relentless focus on risk activity data for the entire building was typically automobiles includes travel in Deloitte-owned for the countries in the report’s scope. While sources individually accounted for less than 3 management percent of aggregate global emissions. Additionally allocated on the basis of the percentage of total vehicle fleets (personnel driving in vehicles owned the reporting for FY2014 includes a significant building floor space used (based on rentable square by DTTL and/ or the member firm), reimbursed number of Scope 3 sources, it does not consider these sources often required many assumptions, Data privacy and security were frequently time-consuming to obtain meters) by the DTTL member firm. Where buildingdriving (personnel driving in personal cars for which full upstream and downstream emissions across specific data was unavailable, DTTL member firms they are reimbursed), rental cars (personnel driving all sources. FY2014 environmental performance and in the case of district heating and cooling Regulatory and public policy estimated electricity and fuel usage using actual in rented/hired cars, for which the member firm data in this report was directly collected from used emission factors with very high levels of engagement uncertainties. data from a similar building or an average from a pays); buses and taxis (reimbursed personnel trips in 28 member firms and from DTTL. These entities recognized source. buses, taxis, car-service vehicles, and limousines). represent 91 percent of aggregate Deloitte Ethics We also eliminated paper from the carbon footprint people and 94 percent of aggregate member firm while still tracking overall paper consumption. The A simplifying assumption is used for calculating For road travel, activity data was gathered from revenues. Extrapolations were used to account for the volume of diesel fuel used for backup power expense reports, rental agency records, travel Independence paper emission factors we historically relied upon the emissions of the remainder of the organization included life-cycle analysis emissions and as such generation. It is assumed that diesel fuel purchased agency records, company accounting systems, that did not directly report data. FY2014 societal during the fiscal year is used that year. This method fuel receipts, odometer logs, and receipts or other Globally connected did not align with the concept of annual emissions impact data was reported by 34 member firms and inherent in the other footprint calculations. We likely overestimates actual emissions in some years records indicating distance and location of trip by DTTL, which represent 95 percent of aggregate and underestimates them in others, but over time segments. When fuel information was available, Global security believe the goal of reducing paper consumption Deloitte people and 97 percent of aggregate can be tracked and managed by paper usage alone, captures the related emissions. GHG emissions are calculated on the basis of member firm revenues. Estimates of societal impact mobile combustion factors for the given fuel type. Reporting process without the addition of carbon calculations. Business travel — Air contributions were not made for the member firms When only distance information was available, GHG that did not report this data due to the variations In the infographics and performance table included Reported GHG emissions are those resulting from emissions were calculated on the basis of average Metrics in societal impact activities across member firms. in this report, the previous year’s data has been air travel by professionals flying for business reasons emissions factors (emissions per kilometer traveled) It should be recognized that this limits the yearrevised using the above approach to maintain in accordance with DTTL and member firm policies. for vehicles according to vehicle type (bus or car), to-year comparability of the data. Comparability is comparability. GHG emissions from flights taken by nonemployees fuel type (diesel, petrol, hybrid, or unknown), and expected to improve over time as the number of are also reported in instances where flight activity location. nonreporting member firms decrease. Data that data is captured in DTTL or member firm travel formed the basis of the reporting was obtained systems and reimbursed or paid for by DTTL or a 56 A very limited amount of employee commuting Accommodations or travel vendors) and from DTTL or member firm and size. Using the appropriate cluster ratio, activity data was available from member firms. The GHG emissions inventory in the report includes expense systems. Travel expenses recorded in DTTL missing data was extrapolated based on the known Where available, this information was added to the emissions from accommodations at hotels, guest or member firm expense systems often exceeded FTE data. emissions total. As more member firms collect this houses, and apartments for business reasons and the corresponding expenses recorded by travel data, reporting is expected to grow in future years. providers because of travel arrangements made Consistent with other GRI indicators, emissions in accordance with DTTL and member firm policies. outside of reservation systems or without travel intensity per FTE was calculated using the FTE total Data was collected from corporate travel agency Business travel — Rail agencies. In cases where such differences were at the reporting year-end (31 May 2014). records, employee travel expense reports, and Rail travel accounts for GHG emissions from identified, the travel activity data associated with internal records. In FY2014 an updated emission While the above description is intended to be as employee trips on subways, railways, and trams, the incremental cost was estimated based on factor was identified and used. This factor was accurate as possible, invariably the inventory will with different GHG emission factors used for each the same proportion of cost to activity that was approximately 15 percent lower per night’s stay contain some exceptions to this reporting basis. type of rail system. Activity data sources included reflected in the original travel system reservation. travel agency reports, employee expense reports, than the emissions factor used in previous years. None of the known exceptions are considered to HOME Not every member firm has the capacity to materially change the total emissions reported. company accounting systems, receipts, and other Estimations records indicating the distance and location of In calculating emissions, various estimations and report activity data for GHG emissions, and some Emission factors trip segments. In cases where actual distance was extrapolations were made to account for known member firms report on some, but not all, of the The table below shows emission factors that were unavailable, estimates were made using travel data gaps. activities within the report boundaries. Ratios of used in the inventory. EXECUTIVE MESSAGE expense data and average travel costs per unit of emissions per full time equivalent (FTE) by emission distance traveled. For many travel activities, activity information source were calculated for the member firms Where factors are used in specific countries only, and cost data were available both from travel that reported, and averages of these ratios were these are listed after the emission source. providers (reservation systems, travel agencies, calculated based on clusters of geographic location GLOBAL LEADER FOR CLIENTS Emission source Emission factor Unit kg CO2e/unit Reference Air Travel – Various lengths and seat classes 0.087-0.350 Passenger km Defra’s 2014 Government Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Conversion Factors for Company Reporting (version 1.1); various factors used depending on class and distance Air Travel – Various lengths (Belgium) 0.22-0.66 Passenger km Agence de l’Environnement et de la Maîtrise de l’Energie (ADEME) DISRUPTION: LEADING Air Travel – Various lengths (Finland, Germany) 0.131-0.190 Passenger km Travel agency records THE PACK Air Travel – Various lengths (Japan) 1.04 Passenger km Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism (MLTI) 2012 Bus (Europe) 0.112 Passenger km Defra’s 2014 Government Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Conversion Factors for Company Reporting (version 1.1) Bus (Japan) 0.060 Passenger km Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism (MLTI) 2012 LEADING TOGETHER Bus (Outside Europe) 0.066 Passenger km WRI GHG Protocol Tool for mobile sources v2.5 (June 2013) Electricity (Australia) 200-1170 MWh Australian Government – National Greenhouse & Energy Reporting Act Electricity (Belgium) 0 MWh Electrabel Alp Energy – Hydro energy LEADING WITH INTEGRITY Electricity (Canada) 2-856 MWh Environment Canada National Inventory Report 1990-2011 Quality and integrity Electricity (Chile) 430-810 MWh Ministry of Energy, Chilean Government 2013 data for Central Interconnected System (SIC) Electricity (China) 871 MWh China regional average – WRI Calculation Spreadsheet of China Regional Grid Emission Factors for Relentless focus on risk Purchased Electricity management Electricity (Finland) 250 MWh Finnish Electricity Company Data privacy and security Electricity (France) 78 MWh Base carbone – Agence de l’Environnement et de la Maîtrise de l’Energie (ADEME) Electricity (Germany) 559 MWh Umweltbundesamt, Strommix Deutschland, UBA Regulatory and public policy engagement Electricity (India) 760-958 MWh India Environmental Portal CO2 Baseline Database for the Indian Power Sector – User Guides – 2013-2014 Electricity (Japan) 514-903 MWh Various Japanese Power Companies Ethics Electricity (New Zealand) 90-190 MWh New Zealand Ministry of Economic Development – Quarterly Energy Update Independence Electricity (Norway) 500 MWh Norwegian Water Resources and Energy Directorate (NVE) Residual Mix (nve.no) Electricity (South Africa) 1010 MWh Eskom’s 2014 data Globally connected Electricity (UK) 494.2 MWh Defra’s 2014 Government Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Conversion Factors for Company Reporting (version 1.1) Global security Electricity (U.S.) 248-860 MWh USEPA eGRID 2013 Version 1.0 Subregion Data (Year 2010) Electricity (Various countries) 17-856 MWh IEA Statistics, “CO2 Emissions from Fuel Combustion Highlights.” 2013 Edition Reporting process Hotel Stays 34.59 Nights Based on select information from Green Hotels GlobalsTM Q3 2013 Metrics Hotel Stays (Australia) 40.91 Nights Emission factor provided by National Finance 6 Jan 2010 Hotel Stays (France) 33.38 Nights Carbonfund.com Hotel Stays (New Zealand) 2.56-7.97 Nights Ministry for the Environment, Guidance for voluntary, corporate greenhouse gas reporting, 2011 Calendar Year Mobile Combustion – Black Car/Limo 0.153 Vehicle km Defra’s 2014 Government Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Conversion Factors for Company Reporting (version 1.1) 57 Emission source Emission factor Unit kg CO2e/unit Reference Mobile Combustion – Car (Average) (Various Fuels) (Finland) 0.143-0144 km Actual information from the fleet company Mobile Combustion – Car (Average) (Diesel) (Europe) 0.183 km Defra’s 2014 Government Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Conversion Factors for Company Reporting (version 1.1) Mobile Combustion – Car (Diesel) 2.601 Liter Defra’s 2014 Government Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Conversion Factors for Company Reporting (version 1.1) Mobile Combustion – Car (Various Fuels) (Belgium) 2.834-2.947 Liter Agence de l’Environnement et de la Maîtrise de l’Energie (ADEME) Mobile Combustion – Car (Hybrid) 0.131 km Defra’s 2014 Government Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Conversion Factors for Company Reporting (version 1.1) Mobile Combustion – Car (Petrol) (Japan) 2.322 Liter Ministry of the Environment, Government of Japan, Law Concerning the Promotion of the Measures to Cope with Global Warming HOME Mobile Combustion – Car (Various fuels) (New Zealand) 2.31-2.69 Liter Landcare – CarboNZero emissions factor database Mobile Combustion – Car (Petrol/Gasoline) 2.214 Liter Defra’s 2014 Government Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Conversion Factors for Company Reporting (version 1.1) Mobile Combustion – Car (unknown fuel) 0.248 km DTTL estimated using data from WRI (2013) GHG Protocol Tool for Mobile Combustion v 2.5 EXECUTIVE MESSAGE Mobile Combustion – Car (unknown fuel) (Australia) 0.340 km Australian Government Department of Climate Change (July 2011) National Greenhouse Accounts (NGA) Factors. Division 4.2 Mobile Combustion – Car (unknown fuel) (New Zealand) 0.237 km Ministry for the Environment, Guidance for voluntary, corporate greenhouse gas reporting, 2012 Calendar Year Mobile Combustion – Car or Van (Various fuels) 3.14 Liter Stichting Klimaatvriendelijk Aanbesteden en Ondernemen GLOBAL LEADER (Netherlands) FOR CLIENTS Mobile Combustion – Car or Van (Various fuels) (France) 2.37-2.70 Liter Specific fuel providers Mobile Combustion – Car or Van (Various fuels) (France) 0.167-0.312 km Base carbone – Agence de l’Environnement et de la Maîtrise de l’Energie (ADEME) Mobile Combustion – Car or Van (various fuels) (Europe) 0.12 – 0.1470 km Specific fleet and rental car information DISRUPTION: LEADING Mobile Combustion – Europe Car (Average) (Petrol) 0.198 km Defra’s 2014 Government Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Conversion Factors for Company Reporting (version 1.1) THE PACK Mobile Combustion – Europe/Car (Average) (unknown fuel) 0.190 km Defra’s 2014 Government Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Conversion Factors for Company Reporting (version 1.1) Mobile Combustion – Motorcycle 0.119 km Defra’s 2014 Government Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Conversion Factors for Company Reporting (version 1.1) Mobile Combustion – Outside Europe Car (Average) (Diesel) 0.280 km WRI GHG Protocol Tool for mobile sources v2.5 (June 2013) LEADING TOGETHER Mobile Combustion – Outside Europe/Car (Average) (Petrol) 0.237 km WRI GHG Protocol Tool for mobile sources v2.5 (June 2013) Mobile Combustion – Outside Europe/Car-Average 0.163-0.204 km Ministry of the Environment, Government of Japan, Law Concerning the Promotion of the Measures to (Unknown fuel) (Japan) Cope with Global Warming Mobile Combustion – Outside Europe/Car-Average (Various 0.183-0.198 km Defra’s 2014 Government Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Conversion Factors for Company Reporting LEADING WITH INTEGRITY fuels) (South Africa) Quality and integrity Mobile Combustion – Taxi 0.143 Vehicle km WRI GHG Protocol Tool for mobile sources v2.5 (June 2013) Mobile Combustion – Taxi (Australia) 0. 250 Vehicle km Calculation based on Australian Government Department of Climate Change (July 2012) National Relentless focus on risk Greenhouse Accounts (NGA) Factors. Schedule 1 management Mobile Combustion – Taxi (France) 2.40-2.41 Passenger km Base carbone – Agence de l’Environnement et de la Maîtrise de l’Energie (ADEME) Data privacy and security Mobile Combustion – Taxi (Japan) 0.168 Vehicle km Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism (MLTI) 2012 Mobile Combustion – Taxi (New Zealand) 0.308 Vehicle km Landcare – CarboNZero emissions factor database. June 2013 Regulatory and public policy engagement Mobile Combustion – Taxi / Car service (U.S.) 0.252 Passenger km Specific information from service providers Mobile Combustion – Taxi/Car service (UK) 0.177-0.328 Vehicle km Defra’s 2014 Government Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Conversion Factors for Company Reporting (version 1.1) Ethics Mobile Combustion – Van (Diesel) 0.227 km Defra’s 2014 Government Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Conversion Factors for Company Reporting (version 1.1) Independence Mobile Combustion – Van (Petrol) 0.212 km Defra’s 2014 Government Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Conversion Factors for Company Reporting (version 1.1) Mobile Combustion – Van (UK) 0.269 km Defra’s 2014 Government Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Conversion Factors for Company Reporting (version 1.1) Globally connected Rail – Average (Light Rail or Tram) 0.101 Passenger km WRI GHG Protocol Tool for mobile sources v2.5 (June 2013) Global security Rail – National Rail 0.115 Passenger km WRI GHG Protocol Tool for mobile sources v2.5 (June 2013) Rail – Subway 0.101 Passenger km WRI GHG Protocol Tool for mobile sources v2.5 (June 2013) Reporting process Rail – Subway (U.S.) 0.164 Passenger mile The Greenhouse Gas Protocol Emission Factors from Cross-sector tools. Version 1.1 (June 2011). Metrics Rail (Eurostar) 0.012 Passenger km Defra’s 2014 Government Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Conversion Factors for Company Reporting (version 1.1) Rail (Japan) 0.022 Passenger km Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism (MLTI) 2012 Rail (Netherlands) 0.03 Passenger km National Rail Rail (UK) 0.012-0.047 Passenger km Defra’s 2014 Government Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Conversion Factors for Company Reporting (version 1.1) 58 Emission source Emission factor Unit kg CO2e/unit Reference Stationary Combustion – Diesel 2.676 Liter WRI Emission Factors from Cross Sector Tools (August 2012) Stationary Combustion – Diesel (France) 0.319 kWh Base carbone – Agence de l’Environnement et de la Maîtrise de l’Energie (ADEME) Stationary Combustion – Diesel or Heating Oil (Low 74.10 GJ WRI Emission Factors from Cross Sector Tools (August 2012) Heating Value) Stationary Combustion – Heating Oil (Japan) 2.71 Liter Ministry of the Environment, Government of Japan, Law Concerning the Promotion of the Measures to Cope with Global Warming Stationary Combustion – Liquefied Petroleum Gas (LPG) 1.61 Liter WRI Emission Factors from Cross Sector Tools (August 2012) Stationary Combustion – Natural Gas (Japan) 2.149-3.132 Cubic meters HV-gas company HOME Stationary Combustion – Natural Gas (Low Heating Value) 56.10 GJ WRI Emission Factors from Cross Sector Tools (August 2012) Stationary Combustion – Natural Gas (Switzerland) 0.182 kWh Defra’s 2014 Government Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Conversion Factors for Company Reporting (version 1.1) Stationary Combustion – Natural Gas (UK) 0.185 kWh Defra’s 2014 Government Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Conversion Factors for Company Reporting (version 1.1) EXECUTIVE MESSAGE Stationary Combustion – Natural Gas (France) 0.235 kWh Base carbone – Agence de l’Environnement et de la Maîtrise de l’Energie (ADEME) GLOBAL LEADER FOR CLIENTS DISRUPTION: LEADING THE PACK LEADING TOGETHER LEADING WITH INTEGRITY Quality and integrity Relentless focus on risk management Data privacy and security Regulatory and public policy engagement Ethics Independence Globally connected Global security Reporting process Metrics 59 FY14 Performance table FY2014 FY2013 FY2012 GLOBAL PRESENCE Number of member firms 47 47 48 REVENUE US$ Billion HOME Aggregate revenues Aggregate member firm revenue 34.2 32.4 31.3 By functional area EXECUTIVE MESSAGE Audit 10.1 10.0 10.1 Enterprise Risk Services 3.2 3.1 2.9 Financial Advisory 3.0 2.8 2.7 Consulting 11.4 10.4 9.7 GLOBAL LEADER Tax 6.5 6.1 5.9 FOR CLIENTS By region Americas 17.4 16.4 15.5 Europe/Middle East/Africa 12.1 11.1 10.9 DISRUPTION: LEADING Asia Pacific 4.8 4.9 4.9 THE PACK By industry group Consumer Business 6.6 6.4 6.4 Energy & Resources 3.0 3.0 2.8 LEADING TOGETHER Financial Services 9.5 9.1 9.0 Life Sciences and Health Care 3.1 2.6 2.3 Manufacturing 4.3 4.3 4.1 Public Sector 4.0 3.5 3.3 LEADING WITH INTEGRITY Technology, Media & Telecommunications 3.8 3.5 3.4 Quality and integrity Revenue growth Percentage growth in US Dollars / Local currency Aggregate member firm revenue growth 5.7% / 6.5% 3.5% / 5.6% 8.6% / 8.3% Relentless focus on risk By functional area management Audit 1.1% / 2.5% -0.7% / 1.9% 2.5% / 2.1% Data privacy and security Enterprise Risk Services 3.6% / 4.2% 4.4% / 6.3% 20.6% / 20.4% Financial Advisory 6.0% / 6.8% 4.7% / 6.7% 15% / 14.2% Regulatory and public policy engagement Consulting 9.5% / 10.3% 7.1% / 8.7% 13.5% / 13.3% Tax 7.4% / 7.7% 3.8% / 5.6% 3.9% / 3.7% Ethics By region Americas 6.1% / 7.5% 5.7% / 6.3% 7.9% / 8.2% Independence Europe/Middle East/Africa 8.8% / 5.8% 2.1% / 5.6% 6.4% / 6.7% Globally connected Asia Pacific -3.0% / 4.9% -0.2% / 3.1% 16.3% / 12.3% TALENT Global security Aggregate talent Reporting process Aggregate Deloitte people 210,400 202,885 193,359 By level Metrics Partners and principals 10,247 10,189 9,948 Professional staff 163,676 157,505 148,947 Administrative staff 36,478 35,192 34,464 60 FY2014 FY2013 FY2012 By region Americas 92,804 89,934 84,855 Europe/Middle East/Africa 74,778 71,826 68,317 Asia Pacific 42,819 41,125 40,187 By level and region Americas Partners and principals 4,279 4,335 4,228 Professionals 70,750 68,328 63,685 HOME Administrative staff 17,775 17,270 16,941 Europe/Middle East/Africa (EMEA) Partners and principals 3,425 3,389 3,357 EXECUTIVE MESSAGE Professionals 58,910 56,428 53,232 Administrative staff 12,443 12,010 11,728 Asia Pacific GLOBAL LEADER Partners and principals 2,542 2,465 2,363 FOR CLIENTS Professionals 34,016 32,748 32,029 Administrative staff 6,260 5,912 5,794 Talent by gender By region and gender male DISRUPTION: LEADING Overall 117,557 112,182 106,866 THE PACK Americas 52,717 50,770 47,649 Europe/Middle East/Africa 41,574 39,373 37,392 Asia Pacific 23,266 22,039 21,825 LEADING TOGETHER By region and gender female Overall 92,843 90,703 86,492 Americas 40,087 39,164 37,205 LEADING WITH INTEGRITY Europe/Middle East/Africa 33,204 32,453 30,925 Asia Pacific 19,553 19,087 18,361 Quality and integrity Percentages of women in Deloitte network Relentless focus on risk Overall 44% 45% 45% management Among partners, principals, and directors 21% 20% 19% Among managers 35% 35% 35% Data privacy and security Among new hires 44% 45% 46% Regulatory and public policy Among new partners, principals, and director admissions 21% 23% 22% engagement On mobility assignments 23% 23% 26% Percentages of women in DTTL leadership and governance bodies Ethics On DTTL Board of Directors 13% 9% 6% Independence On DTTL Executive 0% 0% 0% On DTTL leadership team 14% 20% 19% Globally connected Turnover rate Global security Aggregate turnover rate 21% 19% 20% By region Reporting process Americas 20% 19% 18% Metrics Europe/Middle East/Africa 21% 18% 20% Asia Pacific 23% 20% 24% By gender Male 21% 19% 19% Female 22% 20% 21% 61 FY2014 FY2013 FY2012 New hires Aggregate new hires 53,959 51,405 51,440 Aggregate new hire rate (1) 26% 25% 27% By region Americas new hires 23,437 23,492 21,639 Americas new hire rate (1) 25% 26% 26% Europe/Middle East/Africa new hires 18,941 17,394 17,250 Europe/Middle East/Africa new hire rate (1) 25% 24% 25% HOME Asia Pacific new hires 11,582 10,519 12,550 Asia Pacific new hire rate (1) 27% 26% 31% By level EXECUTIVE MESSAGE New partners and principals 257 273 285 New managers 4,938 4,980 4,952 New staff 42,222 39,403 39,466 GLOBAL LEADER New administrative staff 6,542 6,749 6,737 FOR CLIENTS By gender Percentage of women among new hires 44% 45% 46% LEARNING Hours training per full-time Deloitte employee (2) 51 49 44 DISRUPTION: LEADING MOBILITY THE PACK Total number of mobility assignments 5,898 5,795 5,356 Increase in mobility assignments 2% 8% 21% Average number of mobility opportunities available on a daily basis 650 650 n/a LEADING TOGETHER GLOBAL CAREERS WEBSITE Visits to website 14,527,716 13,041,824 10,328,940 Total number of Recruitment and Mobility System applications 1,852,715 1,906,234 1,604,805 LEADING WITH INTEGRITY SOCIETAL IMPACT Number of reporting entities. Societal impact metrics are for reporting entities, and 34 member firms and DTTL 33 member firms and DTTL 33 member firms and DTTL Quality and integrity estimates have not been made for nonreporting entities. (representing 95% of global workforce) (representing 93% of global workforce) (representing 90% of global workforce) Monetary value of community investments US$ million Relentless focus on risk management Aggregate Deloitte community investments 190.9 179.0 165.1 By source Data privacy and security Aggregate donations 72.9 74.9 74.1 Regulatory and public policy DTTL and member firm foundation donations (monetary and in-kind) 42.4 44.8 44.6 engagement Member firm partner and Deloitte employee donations (to member firm-supported 30.5 30.1 29.5 organizations and fundraisers) Ethics Aggregate Deloitte costs for managing community investment programs 11.4 13.0 9.2 Aggregate value of volunteer and pro bono work by Deloitte people 106.6 91.1 81.8 Independence Member firm Pro bono work 48.1 43.5 34.2 Globally connected Skills-based volunteering 30.5 20.1 26.4 Traditional volunteering 28.0 27.5 21.2 Global security By contribution area Reporting process Contributions toward education and skills-building organizations (3) 26% 30% 29% Value of pro bono and skills-based volunteering as percentage of value of all 74% 70% 74% Metrics volunteering and pro bono work 62 FY2014 FY2013 FY2012 Hours of community investments Thousand hours Aggregate hours of volunteer and pro bono work by Deloitte people 941 873 884 Member firm pro bono work 237 209 198 Skills-based volunteering by Deloitte people 442 308 377 Traditional volunteering by Deloitte people 263 356 308 ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY Number of member firms reporting on environmental sustainability. Environmental 28 member firms and DTTL 29 member firms and DTTL representing 32 member firms and DTTL representing metrics are extrapolated to represent all member firms and DTTL. representing 91% of global workforce 91% of global workforce 93% of global workforce HOME Aggregate Deloitte greenhouse gas emissions Metric tonnes CO2e Aggregate greenhouse gas emissions including offsets (4) 914,177 927,029 885,276 Aggregate greenhouse gas emissions not including offsets (4) 916,703 929,561 889,395 EXECUTIVE MESSAGE By source Metric tonnes CO2e Buildings: electricity 228,587 220,382 204,812 Buildings: other sources (4) 15,449 17,824 12,104 Business travel: air travel (4) 405,903 418,079 422,311 GLOBAL LEADER Business travel: other sources 266,764 273,275 250,167 FOR CLIENTS Offset credits (2,526) (2,532) (4,119) By GHG Protocol scope Metric tonnes CO2e Scope 1: Direct greenhouse gas emissions (4) 86,719 92,318 73,848 DISRUPTION: LEADING Scope 2: Electricity indirect greenhouse gas emissions (4) 228,587 220,382 204,812 THE PACK Scope 3: Other indirect greenhouse gas emissions (4) 601,397 616,861 610,735 Intensity measures Metric tonnes CO2e Greenhouse gas emissions per full-time equivalent (metric tonnes CO2e/FTE) excluding 4.4 4.7 4.7 LEADING TOGETHER offsets (4) Greenhouse gas emissions per dollar of revenue (kg CO2e/$000 USD) excluding offsets (4) 26.8 28.7 28.4 Energy usage GW Aggregate usage of purchased electricity in Deloitte facilities 441 448 418 LEADING WITH INTEGRITY Direct energy consumption by primary energy source TJ Quality and integrity TJ of natural gas 305 269 202 TJ of gasoline 256 254 262 Relentless focus on risk TJ of diesel fuel 378 352 517 management Indirect energy consumption by primary source TJ Data privacy and security TJ of electricity 1,587 1,611 1,506 Aggregate Deloitte material usage Metric tonnes Regulatory and public policy Paper usage 5,580 5,519 5,413 engagement Percent of recycled input materials used based on estimate of recycled content paper 20% 19% 9% Ethics Note: Because of rounding, numbers may not tally with the total. Independence n/a: not available (1) Per the Global Reporting Initiative Indicator Protocol, the rate is calculated using the total Deloitte people at the end of the reporting period Globally connected (2) Represents a lower bound for measures of learning because certain types of training are not tracked in the online learning platform Global security (3) FY13 figures restated as a result of reclassification of certain pro bono contributions to better align with the reporting methodology. Reporting process (4) Some FY13 and FY12 values revised due to methodology change. See Basis of Reporting for details. Metrics 63 Contact us GlobalReport@deloitte.com Learn more www.deloitte.com/GlobalReport HOME Stay connected EXECUTIVE MESSAGE GLOBAL LEADER #GR2014 FOR CLIENTS DISRUPTION: LEADING THE PACK LEADING TOGETHER LEADING WITH INTEGRITY Produced by DTTL Global Brand & Communications Deloitte refers to one or more of Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Limited, a UK private company limited by guarantee (“DTTL”), its network of member firms, and their related entities. DTTL and each of its member firms are legally separate and independent entities. DTTL (also referred to as “Deloitte Global”) does not provide services to clients. Please see www.deloitte.com/about for a more detailed description of DTTL and its member firms. Deloitte provides audit, consulting, financial advisory, risk management, tax, and related services to public and private clients spanning multiple industries. With a globally connected network of member firms in more than 150 countries and territories, Deloitte brings world-class capabilities and high-quality service to clients, delivering the insights they need to address their most complex business challenges. Deloitte’s more than 210,000 professionals are committed to becoming the standard of excellence. This publication contains general information only, and none of Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Limited, its member firms, or their related entities (collectively, the “Deloitte Network”) is, by means of this publication, rendering professional advice or services. Before making any decision or taking any action that may affect your finances or your business, you should consult a qualified professional adviser. No entity in the Deloitte Network shall be responsible for any loss whatsoever sustained by any person who relies on this publication. For the convenience of the reader, a member firm of DTTL in a particular country is identified in the body of this report by the word “Deloitte” coupled with a country name (e.g., Deloitte Greece), in lieu of using the actual legal name of the member firm of DTTL in that country. In many countries, services may be provided by the actual member firms but could also be provided in addition by—or solely by—subsidiaries or affiliates of the DTTL member firm in that country, which are often organized as separate legal entities. Specifically, with respect to the United States, Deloitte LLP is the member firm of DTTL and does not provide services. Services in the United States are provided by Deloitte LLP’s subsidiaries; including Deloitte & Touche LLP, Deloitte Tax LLP, Deloitte Consulting LLP, and Deloitte Financial Advisory Services LLP. All of these U.S. entities are referred to in this publication as “Deloitte United States.” Certain services may not be available to attest clients under the rules and regulations of public accounting. Additionally, for the purposes of this publication only, individuals are identified by their name and the nomenclature discussed above for referring to a DTTL member firm, whether that individual is a partner, principal, shareholder, member, director, or employee of that DTTL member firm or one or more of its subsidiaries or affiliates (e.g., Paige Flanagan, Deloitte Ireland). © 2014. For information, contact Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Limited.
