WE BUILD TRUST COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS October 2014 to November 2015 Communication on Progress October 2014 to November 2015 Statement of continued support by our General Manager: To our stakeholders: Engineering & Building Co. EBCO (BITAR) hereby reaffirms its support for the United Nations Global Compact and commitment to its principles. Our operations and strategies will continue to be aligned with the initiative mission and objectives. We believe that being socially responsible is the right thing to do. We are proud founders of United Nations Global Compact – Lebanon Network and member of the Steering Committee. This Network was launched on September 3, 2015 at the American University of Beirut and will be working closely with the United Nations Global Compact Headquarters to provide opportunities for learning, policy dialogue and partnership on the Ten Principles and UN goals in Lebanon. Sincerely yours, Eng. Jalal Bitar General Manager Communication on Progress October 2014 to November 2015 History “EBCO” Engineering & Building Co. was established in 1975, few months before the start of the Lebanese Civil War. The company challenged the threats and overcame the risks backed up by a loyal and motivated staff willing to fight for survival. As hard and dangerous as it was, it made it through and now is ranked among the largest contracting firms in Lebanon. In 2005, Eng. Jalal Bitar, main founder and owner, has decided to embark with a new and improved version of EBCO naming it EBCO (BITAR). With his vision to expand, the firm is today executing big construction projects, and has offices and teams spread all over Lebanon. EBCO (BITAR) conducts major projects with both public and private sectors. Its portfolio encompasses different types: residential, commercial, educational, health care, athletic, cultural, archeological, electro-mechanical, telecommunication and infrastructure. EBCO (BITAR)’s in depth experience and engineering expertise in such a variety of projects highlights its ability to execute any given project. Other services provided include preconstruction services, design, project management and engineering consultancy. EBCO (BITAR) is now stepping beyond construction works to offer such complimentary services to its clients. Its commitment to quality, time and budget confirms its credibility and reputation in the Lebanese market. The team works hard to maintain the highest level of professionalism and efficiency and believes in the need to grant the best services. Communication on Progress October 2014 to November 2015 Mission EBCO (BITAR) is committed in building lasting relationships based on integrity, performance, value and customer satisfaction. Our pledge is to meet the changing needs of our clients with our quality services delivered by the most qualified people. Vision EBCO (BITAR) will expand its efforts to grow profitably in meeting customer needs today and in the future by continuing to build strong partnerships with our suppliers and foster employees’ engagement towards a sustainable future. Values SAFETY Safety comes first; the safety of our employees, subcontractors, owners, and the general public is our primary concern. Safety coincides with quality and is an integral part of our business. We are conscientious in our actions and provide a safe workplace. TEAM WORK We recognize our primary asset is people. To be successful, EBCO (BITAR) must be a rewarding place to work. We provide opportunity and encouragement to help our people reach their potential. We work with our clients and our suppliers as a team. Mutual respect provides the foundation for our success. INTEGRITY We remain true to our founding values of quality, honesty and hard work. We are committed to aligning our strategies with the United Nations Global Compact principles in the areas of human rights, labour environment and anti-corruption. EXCELLENCE We are keen to offer the highest standards of service, quality, and personal attention to clients. We constantly challenge ourselves to be the best. Communication on Progress October 2014 to November 2015 Communication on Progress October 2014 to November 2015 Human Rights  EBCO (BITAR) Employee Handbook was finalized and distributed to all employees. The handbook has been prepared for the information and guidance of the staff. The Handbook included all employment policies, the wages and salaries, time away from work and the code of conduct which includes the nonharassment policy, the violence policy and many others. The Company respects the rights of every employee to be treated fairly and with respect.  EBCO (BITAR) is investing in a proactive environment rather than reactive. Taking initiative and improving the current system are considered essential in every employee evaluation. Monthly meetings are being carried in every site and in head office to listen to employee’s concerns, suggestions and new ideas.  EBCO (BITAR) strives to have a multicultural diversity which is the main reason for our growth and prosperity. Nevertheless empowering women and achieving gender equality has been our main concern for the past couple of years. Implementation  Every new employee who joins the Company is briefed about what is expected from him/her and what he/she shall expect from the Company in return.  D ifferent genders are given equal opportunities for we believe everyone has the right to succeed in the way they can. Labour  Our Safety Policy clearly states: “Safety is among our core values. Safety always comes first. We are committed to: Conducting our business with respect and care for people and the environment. Utilizing natural resources responsibly. Continually improving our safety, health and environmental performance. Communication on Progress October 2014 to November 2015 Complying with all applicable legal and other agreed requirements. Promoting dialogue with stakeholders about safety, health and environmental performance. Our Operational Health & Safety Manual is intended to protect the Company’s employees, subcontractors, owners, and the general public from any work-related accidents, and its properties from any loss or damage as well as protect the environment in compliance with customer requirements and related laws and regulations. Safety is everybody’s responsibility.”  The Manual covered all safety procedures related to the construction field and the actions and sanctions system to be applied when a non-conformity occurs. The Safety Organization has been highlighted along with the needed forms to be filled. The Objectives of the Occupation Health & Safety Manual are as follow: 1Protect human capital from casualties caused by work-related risks by making sure they are not exposed to accidents, injuries or occupational illness. 2Preserve physical assets such as facilities including equipment and devices and protect them from damage and loss as a result of accidents and misuse. 3Provide and apply all occupational health and safety conditions that ensure a safe environment and prevent from endangering both the human and physical capital. 4Spread a sense of security and reassurance in the hearts of employees and workers while performing their duties. Implementation  Our Safety Officers are doing their work and making sure that every employee is abiding by the safety standards. Every week the Safety Officers visit the sites on an unscheduled day to assess and report back the safety status in each site.  The subcontractors we work with, are urged to respect the safety measures we have on sites just like our own employees, for their safety is our priority. Therefore, a new subcontractor safety policy was introduced as well as a subcontractor safety agreement that shall be signed before the commencement of work.  The subcontractor safety policy clearly states that any violation of EBCO (BITAR) Communication on Progress October 2014 to November 2015 Safety procedures or refusal to comply with the Occupational Health & Safety Manual exposes the Company to fines up to including termination of works on site.  The safety agreement certifies that the subcontractor has received the latest version of EBCO (BITAR) Occupational Health & Safety Manual and that the Company agrees to follow the safety rules and regulations stated in the Manual while on EBCO (BITAR) work sites. Measurement of outcomes  After analyzing both the accidents reports of this year and the year before, we noticed that the percentages of accidents on sites has decreased significantly since 2014. Our employees have become more aware of the importance of Safety during their work time at the sites.  Our subcontractors and their workers were the big challenge regarding safety awareness, it was hard to make them respect our safety measures. Having them sign a “Subcontractor Acknowledgment form” made them realize how serious this matter is to us. Fines and tickets were used upon any violation of our safety rules and that clearly affected their performance review and their future services with EBCO (BITAR). Environment  Since November 2013, EBCO (BITAR) has partnered with T.E.R.R.E Liban, an NGO devoted to the creation and implementation of environmental education within Lebanon and has been a leader in the promotion of environmental solutions for sustainable development in implementing our recycling program, as part of our Corporate Social Responsibility initiative. All papers collected will be contributed to the NGO. Our slogan is “‫”اﯾد ﺑﺎﯾد ﻣﻧﺟﻣﻊ وﻣﻧﻔﯾد‬, meaning “hand in hand, we collect and we benefit”. Till now the total number of waste papers contributed was 815kg. We have been committed to this idea since the beginning and till this date we have been contributing more paper that’s being collected from the head offices as well as the sites.  In addition to all the above, we partnered with Arcenciel to expand our contribution to the environment and recycle plastic not only paper. The collected Communication on Progress October 2014 to November 2015 plastic will be delivered and recycled for a good cause. However, we decided to increase our contribution and help the society that this NGO supports, by participating in the events they do, or collect cloth and furniture from our employees on their behalf.  EBCO (BITAR): the Big Brother for its community We have never failed to give back to our community especially the ones next to our sites. Throughout all these years and along most of our projects that are scattered around Lebanon we have taken care of our direct community we work in, for example trees were planted all around to increase the green areas as well as solving some of the problems that they are facing from water shortage to asphalting the road. These contributions are usually taking into consideration in the project’s budget, where a predetermined percentage is put at the disposal of the Project Manager. This program is an on-going initiative and has become part of our day-to-day operations. Measurement of outcomes EBCO (BITAR) is committed to the environment even in its projects. A study is being made on a site that is 100,000 km² to be the first environmentally friendly project in south of Lebanon. This project is mainly concerned with having solar systems and to be energy efficient as a whole. A special consultant with expertise in this field is hired to help us achieve our goal and taking in consideration all the available options we have in terms of being environmentally friendly all the way. Anti-Corruption The only policy that has been put in place regarding anti-corruption and bribery is the Gifts Policy. It states, “every customer is entitled to courteous and outstanding service. Since such service is given impartially to all, gratuities are not expected. Therefore, employees are not allowed to accept gifts of any kind from customers or suppliers. Any offers to EBCO (BITAR) personnel, which appear to be attempts at commercial bribery, shall be reported immediately to HR department.” Communication on Progress October 2014 to November 2015 Address Main Office Beirut Ahmad Assaad Street Taj Building Block B First Floor Tyr Branch Tyr Main Street Fardoun Building T.: +961 7 343390 | +961 7 741354 F.: +961 7 741185 Saida Branch Saida Main Street Zantout Building T. | F.: +961 7 725901 F.: +961 1 840679 P.O. Box: 13-6304 M.: +961 71 717711 E.: info@ebcobitar.com www.ebcobitar.com Communication on Progress October 2014 to November 2015
