Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group CSR Report 2014 Full Edition Strategy and Profile >> About this Report About this Report CONTENTS P 1 About this report 2 Message from the CEO 3 Corporate Vision MUFG is a comprehensive financial group with Mitsubishi (MUN). The report also covers some of the activities 4 Principles of Ethics and Conduct UFJ Financial Group, Inc. (MUFG) as its holding company. of Mitsubishi UFJ Lease & Finance (MUL) and MUFG Union Bank (in this report, Union Bank: UB). In this 5 MUFG Profile MUFG's mediumto long-term Corporate Vision is to be report, MUFG refers the entire group. Where . 7 MUFG's CSR the world's most trusted financial group. activities relate to a specific company, the following symbols are used: 12 Supporting Reconstruction To realize this vision and continue to support our customMUFG BTMU MUTB MUMSS MUN MUL UB 15 Corporate Governance ers and society at large, we engage in a variety of CSR Period Covered: This report describes activities and . activities. achievements in FY 2013 (April 2013 to March 2014). Strategy and Profile 17 Risk Management In some cases, reporting covers activities before or The Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2014 helps us 18 Compliance after FY 2013. improve the quality of these activities—and thus their Content Selection: Criteria for the selection of 20 Financial Crime Countermeasures effectiveness in promoting sustainability—by reporting to content in this report are as follows—(1) level of . stakeholders about our progress and challenges and 22 Major Policies stakeholder interest (based on readers' surveys and inviting feedback on what we can do better in the future. our policies), (2) level of importance for MUFG 24 CSR Structure concerned (based on company's own judgment). 25 Participation in Initiative This Publication: December 2014. 27 Our Stakeholders and MUFG From the Editorial Team 28 Relations with Shareholders and Investors To clearly convey the links between MUFG business MUFG publishes the following CSR reports to meet the Economy interests of our readers. 30 Relations with Business Partners activities and CSR activities, this FY 2014 report was compiled with reference to Version 3.1 of the Global The full edition provides a comprehensive sumEnvironment 32 Environmental Policies and Initiatives Reporting Initiative (GRI) Sustainability Reporting GuideFull Edition mary of MUFG's approach to CSR and our FY Society: Labor Practice and Decent Work 52 Employee Policies and Initiatives lines, international guidelines for CSR and sustainability 2013 CSR activities, with detailed data. . reports. Society: Human Rights 60 Human Rights Policies and Initiatives The highlights edition presents the highlights from Highlights Edition the full edition to give readers a clearer underSociety: Society 61 Local Community Policies and Initiatives standing of MUFG's CSR activities in FY 2013. Society: Product Scope of Reporting: This report mainly covers the Responsibility 71 Relations with Customers following five core companies: Mitsubishi UFJ http://www.mufg.jp/english/csr/csrreport/ 84 Third Party Comment Financial Group (the holding company), The Bank of To learn more about the management, financial performance, and Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ (BTMU), Mitsubishi UFJ Trust services of MUFG, please refer to the disclosure documents on the Strategy and Profile 86 GRI Content Index following website. http://www.mufg.jp/english/ir/ and Banking (MUTB), Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley 93 Comparative Table with ISO 26000 Core Subjects Securities (MUMSS), and Mitsubishi UFJ NICOS 1 MUFG CSR Report 2014 Strategy and Profile >> Message from the CEO Message from the CEO Serving society as a foundation of strength. We will work to fulfill our inherent mission in society as intermediary, to the sustained growth of Japan and the Committed to meeting the needs of our customa financial group and to contribute to the realization of world. ers. a sustainable society. And fostering shared and sustainable growth for a We welcome your continued support. better world. I would like to express my appreciation to readers for their interest in MUFG. Nobuyuki Hirano At MUFG, we are working ever harder, ever more President & CEO diligently to fulfill our long-term vision of making It is with pride that I present the Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group, Inc. your community and society at large a better Group's Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2014, September 2014 place. which describes our principles and initiatives relating to CSR. I invite you to review these pages. To help realize sustainable growth in Japan and around the world, we hope to earn greater trust At MUFG, our Corporate Vision guides all activities carried from you and all our stakeholders. out by group companies, while our Principles of Ethics and Conduct provide a standard by MUFG employees make and carry out decisions. The Corporate Vision and Principles of Ethics and Conduct underpin all group CSR activities as well. The priority themes for MUFG's CSR activities are Addressing Global Environmental Issues and Nurturing Society's Next Generation —themes that were selected from the perspective of contributing to the resolution of the most important issues of society as a whole. Under the first theme, we have sought to use the financial functions of MUFG as we strive to provide products and services that contribute to a reduction in environmental impacts. Under the second theme, we have focused our social contribution on employee participation in activities as members of the local community and society. All MUFG employees will continue to work together to fulfill our core mission in society as a financial group, and contribute, by leveraging our strengths as a financial 2 MUFG CSR Report 2014 Strategy and Profile >> Corporate Vision Corporate Vision The corporate vision will serve as the basic policy in conducting its business activities, and will provide guideOUR MISSION Adapt rapidly to changes in the global economy and lines for all group activities. their impact on the needs of our customers. The corporate vision will also be the foundation for To be a foundation of strength, committed to meeting the management decisions, including the formulation of needs of our customers, serving society, and fostering OUR VALUES management strategies and management plans, and will shared and sustainable growth for a better world. serve as the core value for all employees. 1. Integrity and Responsibility OUR VISION Strive to be fair, transparent, and honest. Always act Corporate Vision ― Be the world's most trusted financial group ― responsibly in the best interest of customers and society as a whole, building long-term stakeholder 1. Work together to exceed the expectations of our relationships and giving back to our communities. customers 2. Professionalism and Teamwork Our Mission Strive to understand and respond to the diversified needs of our customers. Respect the diversity of our fellow workers and foster a Maintain and expect the highest levels of professionalstrong spirit of teamwork. Expect the highest levels of ism and expertise, supported by our consolidated professionalism. Our Vision strength. 3. Challenge Ourselves to Grow 2. Provide reliable and constant support to our customers Adopt a global perspective to anticipate trends and Our Values opportunities for growth. Create and sustain a responGive the highest priority to protecting the interests of sive and dynamic workplace where everyone can focus our customers. on providing outstanding customer service and Principles of Ethics and Conduct Promote healthy, sustainable economic growth. embrace new challenges. Maintain a robust organization that is effective, professional, and responsive. Chapter 1 Chapter 2 Chapter 3 Customer Responsibility Ethical and 3. Expand and strengthen our global presence Focus as a Corporate Dynamic Citizen Workplace Leverage our strengths and capabilities to attract a loyal How we act to realize the vision global customer base. 3 MUFG CSR Report 2014 Strategy and Profile >> Principles of Ethics and Conduct Principles of Ethics and Conduct The Principles of Ethics and Conduct establish clear and consistent standards for all MUFG employees to guide Principles of Ethics and Conduct Chapter 2 Responsibility as a Corporate Citizen decisions and actions. They reflect and support the MUFG The principles are organized in three sections. As a member of MUFG with global operations, we act honorably, with Corporate Vision. Chapter 1 presents the attitude that we adopt with our customers, to act honesty and integrity, and comply at all times with laws, regulations, rules, and internal policies globally. We strive to maintain stability and confidence with honesty and integrity and pursue their best interests, which is a in the global financial system and to contribute to the sound growth and core component of our business practices. development of society. We behave in a manner that supports and strengthens the trust and confidence that MUFG has built up over the years. Chapter 2 presents a set of standards to help us fulfill our responsibilities as a good corporate citizen. MUFG's reputation depends upon the trust 2-1. Adherence to Laws and Regulations and confidence of our customers and other stakeholders, including local communities, and we are responsible to society on a global level. We always judge and act with honesty and integrity, do what is right, and Corporate Vision comply with both the letter and the spirit of the laws, regulations, and Chapter 3 describes the actions and mindset that will create a rules that apply to us. We avoid insider trading, do not engage in stimulating and supportive working environment as MUFG continues to anti-competitive conduct or any form of corrupt activity, and publicly grow. Our success depends on building and maintaining a dynamic disclose corporate information in an appropriate manner. workplace where all employees can reach their full potential in ways that support our customers and contribute to society as a whole. 2-2. Combating Criminal Activity Chapter 1 Customer Focus We do not conduct business with criminal elements. We do not allow our financial products and services to be used for illegal or improper Our Mission We place our diverse customers at the center of all our activities and activities such as money laundering, fraud, or financing terrorist activities. always act in their best interests. MUFG is able to thrive today because of the trust and confidence that customers have placed in us—the result of 2-3. Commitment to Social Sustainability years of fair, transparent, and honorable dealings. Our business culture is not driven by the prospect of short-term, immediate gains. Instead, we We respect the history, culture, and customs of local communities and place a premium on supporting long-term, sustainable relationships with strive to contribute to their development and the protection of the environment through our corporate activities and employee volunteer Our Vision our customers to help them meet their goals. efforts. 1-1. Acting with Honesty and Integrity Chapter 3 Ethical and Dynamic Workplace We always place our diverse customers at the center of all activities and act with honesty and integrity in all of our dealings with them. We We are committed to creating a working environment that fosters mutual Our Values protect customer assets, including their personal information, and strive respect among MUFG employees, supports the full expression of our at all times not to damage their interests. individuality as professionals, promotes the power of teamwork, honors diversity, transcends differences, and embraces new challenges. 1-2. Controlling Quality 3-1. Stimulating Workplace Principles of Ethics and Conduct In order to earn the lasting trust and confidence of our customers, we maintain thorough quality control of our products and services in all We strive to enhance our knowledge and expertise, focus on maximizing aspects from product design and development to delivery, and the value of teamwork, and view changes in the business environment as continually improve our processes to provide accurate and secure opportunities to launch new initiatives. Chapter 1 Chapter 2 Chapter 3 transactions. 3-2. Ethical Workplace Customer Responsibility Ethical and 1-3. Exceeding Customer Expectations as a Corporate Dynamic We respect the diversity and human rights of all MUFG employees. We Focus Citizen Workplace We strive to satisfy the diverse needs of our customers worldwide and to do not engage in or tolerate discrimination, harassment, intimidation, or exceed their expectations through the highest standards of professionalany other behavior or activity that is inconsistent with these core beliefs. ism and by effectively leveraging our global network and consolidated We report any violations of laws and rules, and we manage corporate assets appropriately. How we act to realize the vision strength. 4 MUFG CSR Report 2014 Strategy and Profile >> MUFG Profile MUFG Profile Mobilizing Our Global Network for Maximum Group Synergy. With 500,000 corporate customers, 40 million individual customer accounts, and 101 trillion yen in total loans outstanding, we are the largest financial institution based in Japan. We are keenly aware of our social responsibility and aim to meet customer expectations with our integrated group capacity and world-class quality. 615 Bank of Ayudhya Public Company 413 Union Bank 1,104 31 33 Europe, 62 Japan (see Note) Americas Asia and Oceania Middle East, Japan Locations and Africa Western Japan Region Retail: 230 Eastern Japan Region Corporate: 98 Retail: 409 Corporate: 143 Note: The number of locations is the total of BTMU, MUTB, and MUMSS locations. Central Japan Region Retail: Head office and branches, including sub-branches. The numbers for Retail: 150 BTMU and MUTB do not include virtual branches (which only provide funds Corporate: 74 transfers), loan promotion sub-branches, and partner banks. Corporate: Includes corporate sales offices. (As of March 31, 2014) 5 MUFG CSR Report 2014 Strategy and Profile >> MUFG Profile Major MUFG Companies Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group (MUFG) Information Technology Housing Loans Mitsubishi Research Institute DCS Mitsubishi UFJ Loan Business Commercial Bank Mitsubishi UFJ Information Technology The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ (BTMU) MU Business Engineering Finance Nippon Mutual Housing Loan Trust Bank Shareholder Relations Consulting Services Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and Banking (MUTB) Japan Shareholder Services Wealth Management Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley PB Securities Securities Asset Management Mitsubishi UFJ Personal Financial Advisers Mitsubishi UFJ Securities Holdings (MUSHD) Mitsubishi UFJ Asset Management Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities (MUMSS) MU Investments Debt Collection Morgan Stanley MUFG Securities KOKUSAI Asset Management MU Frontier Servicer Leasing Real-Estate Brokerage Electronically Recorded Monetary Claims Mitsubishi UFJ Lease & Finance (MUL) Mitsubishi UFJ Real Estate Services Japan Electronic Monetary Claim Organization BOT Lease Online Securities Regional Banks Venture Capital kabu.com Securities The Chukyo Bank Mitsubishi UFJ Capital TAISHO Bank Marunouchi Capital Internet Settlements Paygent Overseas Subsidiaries Factoring Bank of Ayudhya Public Company Mitsubishi UFJ Factors Internet Bank MUFG Americas Holdings Corporation Jibun Bank PT U Finance Indonesia Research / Consulting PT. BTMU-BRI Finance Mitsubishi UFJ Research and Consulting Foreign Exchange BTMU Capital Corporation Mitsubishi Asset Brains Tokyo Credit Services (World Currency Shop) BTMU Leasing & Finance Mitsubishi UFJ Trust investment Technology Institute Mitsubishi UFJ Trust International Consumer Loan Mitsubishi UFJ Global Custody Asset Administration ACOM Mitsubishi UFJ Trust & Banking Corporation (U.S.A) The Master Trust Bank of Japan Mitsubishi UFJ Securities International Credit Cards / Installment Credit Mitsubishi UFJ Securities (HK) Holdings DC Pensions Mitsubishi UFJ NICOS (MUN) Mitsubishi UFJ Securities (USA) Defined Contribution Plan Consulting of Japan JACCS Mitsubishi UFJ Wealth Management Bank (Switzerland) Ryoshin DC Card PT. Bank Nusantara Parahyangan JALCARD BTMU Capital Leasing & Finance, Inc (As of July 1, 2014) 6 MUFG CSR Report 2014 Strategy and Profile >> MUFG's CSR MUFG's CSR Corporate Vision and Our CSR ■ Business Segments ■ Group CSR Priority Themes Corporate & Investment Banking ■ Values-Based CSR Activities At MUFG, we have adopted Addressing Global EnvironSmall and medium-sized mental Issues and Nurturing Society's Next Generation as businesses, large corporations, We work to fulfill our corporate social responsibility M&A advisory services, etc. the two priority themes of our group CSR activities. through our business, using our Corporate Vision and Principles of Ethics and Conduct as guidelines. Corporate & Investment ■ Our Responsibility and Role as a Financial Institution Banking Financial institutions have a fundamental responsibility to Consumer Addressing Global use their business functions to help stabilize and maintain Asset Nurturing Society's Business / Management Environmental trust in financial systems and contribute to the sustainable Private Banking Next Generation Issues growth of society. MUFG carries out CSR efforts based on a belief in fulfilling our inherent social mission as the Consumer Business / lifeblood of the economy, and contributing to solutions to Private Banking Asset Management social issues through our core financial businesses. Loan and investment products, Corporate pensions, private banking services, etc. investment trusts, asset management, etc. Focus on global warming, Nurture the next generation biodiversity and other to address issues such as global environmental global environmental issues. problems and global poverty, as well as domestic ■ Efforts to Improve Customer Satisfaction problems in Japan such as low population growth, the The customer focus stance listed at the top of our aging of society, and local Principles of Ethics and Conduct is the core philosophy of and regional issues. our business and all CSR activities. Efforts to Improve Customer Satisfaction The practice of living up to customers' trust and contributing to their long-term, sustainable growth by always keeping them first in mind, by acting fairly and honestly, by pursuing quality, and by providing services that exceed their expectations. 7 MUFG CSR Report 2014 Strategy and Profile >> MUFG's CSR Addressing Global Environmental Issues Environmental Finance and Financial CSR Environmental Provision of funds to support economic entities MUFG will continue to leverage its unique capabilities as a Finance Direct provision of funds to projects that reduce environmental impacts Financial CSR acting to reduce environmental impacts comprehensive financial group to provide financial Investment Investment Economic Reduced environmental support so that funds flow to companies and individuals and financing Project = Reducing CO 2 emissions, etc. and financing entities impacts that are passionate about social and environmental initiatives. We will continue to offer products and services that directly lead to customers' social and environmental MUFG Environmental Action Policy matching and fund procurement, and other services. projects. We will also continue our initiatives to promote • We will support the activities of companies that actively engage in MUFG views environmental issues with the utmost seriousness, and initiatives to address environmental issues by developing and selling biodiversity. aims to help realize a sustainable society in which future generations products such as SRI-type investment products, which invest in shares can live with peace of mind. of companies associated with environmental measures, and by ■ MUFG Environmental Action Policy ◯ Environmental threats such as global warming, resource depletion, and promoting SRI amongst our pension fund customers. pollution are increasing at an accelerating rate. In particular, in Asia, ◯ We will actively promote initiatives overseas that take regional pollution of water, air, and soil is worsening. characteristics into account. MUFG is concerned about global environmental issues. To ◯ Environmental issues constitute an urgent problem requiring a unified • In Asia (particularly China), we will use the capabilities of Group put those concerns into action, we created our policy to approach from the entire world. It is essential that, in seeking solutions, companies to conduct Clean Development Mechanism (CDM) and promote concrete efforts for the environment as the MUFG we reexamine from an environmental perspective the patterns of our other operations. own lifestyles as well as society itself. • In the Americas and Europe, we will promote initiatives centered on the Environmental Action Policy in June 2008. This policy will ◯ MUFG gains support from customers and members of society around provision of finance in the fields of alternative energy and renewable make employees aware of the roles that we should play as the world, and we therefore feel it is our duty to address environmental energy. a comprehensive financial group—as we work to issues, which have a major impact on the lives of future generations. We ◯ In addition to our approach based on the Equator Principles, we will will channel our full capabilities into working toward the benefit of the further clarify our lending criteria from an environmental perspective, in strengthen our environmental initiatives in various ways, environment and future generations. order to contribute to the creation of an environmentally conscious such as by offering products and services that are better ◯ We aim to fulfill society's expectations of us as a comprehensive financial society through our financial functions. for the environment. group that exerts a wide-reaching influence on the environment and ◯ We will leverage the comprehensive strengths of the Group, making use society through its capital flows, while working to achieve a sustainable of our market intermediary functions to provide stable means for society in which future generations can live with peace of mind. We will also emissions reductions to more customers. ■ Environmental Finance and Financial CSR endeavor to enhance the awareness of each individual Group employee, • We will provide a range of services that increase the liquidity of while taking initiatives to reduce our own environmental impact. emissions rights, which are created in CDM operations. • We will enhance our transaction base to allow the maintenance of cost In order to create an eco-friendly society through finance, I. We will dedicate our efforts to create an environmentally conscious transparency and liquidity. we are active in environmental finance, whereby funds society through finance. are provided directly to projects aiming to reduce environ◯ We will provide products and services that reflect the concerns of II. We will work to reduce our own environmental impact and also individual customers in relation to the environment. focus on social contribution activities. mental impacts, as well as financial CSR, whereby funds • We will provide loans to support the installation of solar power ◯ We will work to reduce our emissions of greenhouse gases, conducting are provided to economic entities including businesses, generation systems. measurements of data concerning the environmental burden at each of groups and individuals working to reduce environmental • Through our credit card operations, we will provide access to emission our locations, continuously operating and improving environmental rights, which aid global warming prevention. management systems based on ISO 14001, switching to environmenimpacts. MUFG is implementing a balanced approach, • We will promote the spread of Socially Responsible Investment (SRI) tally friendly equipment, and adopting alternative energy, amongst recognizing the significance and issues involved with each funds, which contribute not only to the growth of customer assets but other initiatives. type of environmental finance. also the wellbeing of society and the planet as a whole. ◯ We will provide environmental burden measurement tools to Group, ◯ We will use our comprehensive financial capabilities to support the employees and their families in order to increase their environmental environmental initiatives of our corporate customers. awareness in relation to their own lifestyles. • We will provide seamless support to customers as they advance ◯ We will pursue environmental conservation initiatives such as tree environmental initiatives, involving the cooperation of companies with planting by employees, environmental education support, and local advanced environmental technology to provide consulting, business contribution activities both in Japan and overseas. 8 MUFG CSR Report 2014 Strategy and Profile >> MUFG's CSR Group Companies' Contribution to Society ■ Wide-Ranging Social Contribution Activities ■ Community Outreach and Participation Activities Promoted by MUFG As an active member of communities all around the world, MUFG promotes a wide range of social contribution activities driven by employee efforts. See page 70 for expenditures on social contribution activities. Donation of Peter RabbitTM Coastal Reforestation Effort BTMU Hiroshima/Hiroshima-Chuo BTMU Retail Banking Video Gardening Diorama (See page 14.) (See page 14.) Branch Counter Center (Osaka) ■ MUFG Activities (See page 65.) (See page 65.) Hito-Machi Kiko TV Program Environmental Education Project: Sponsoring the FIT For Charity Peter RabbitTM Forest for the BTMU (Brazil) (see Note) BTMU Bangkok Branch (See page 61.) Save Our Common Treasures of Run 2013 (See page 62.) Future Environmental Conservation (See page 65.) (See page 68.) the Earth (See page 61.) Activities (See page 62.) Photo : Takeshi Arai Next Generation Leaders Program Economic/Financial Education Culture Support Project: Shiki Supporting the Activities of MUTB Yokohamaeki-Nishiguchi MUTB Mito Branch for Asia and the Pacific (See page Program Let's Learn about Finance Theatre Company's Kokorono UNESCO Associated Schools Branch (See page 66.) (See page 66.) 61.) and Economy (See page 61.) Gekijou (See page 62.) (See page 63.) Job Shadowing Work Experience MUFG Graduation Memorial Cup Sponsoring the Special Olympics Global Volunteer Month MUFG MUTB London Branch MUMSS Takamatsu Branch Program (See page 61.) Soccer Tournament (See page 62.) Nippon (See page 63.) Gives Back (See page 67.) (See page 66.) (See page 66.) Note: Banco de Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Brasil S/A 9 MUFG CSR Report 2014 Strategy and Profile >> MUFG's CSR CSR Topics at MUFG 2013 2014 Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul ● Sixth term started for Next ● First tree-growing event held for the Save Our Common Treasures ● Participated in FIT For Charity Run 2013 ● Held the seventh MUFG ● Seventh term started for Next Generation ● Fourth tree-growing Generation Leaders Program of the Earth project Graduation Memorial Cup Leaders Program for Asia and the Pacific event held for the Save for Asia and the Pacific Soccer Tournament ● Carried out MUFG NFUAJ*1 Our Common Treasures ● Third of the Earth project Mitsubishi UFJ ● Carried out MUFG NFUAJ* 1 East ● Second tree-growing event held for the Save Our Common Treasures of the Earth project East Japan Earthquake ● Sixth Next tree-growing Japan Earthquake Recovery and ● Held the second TOMODACHI MUFG International Exchange Program Generation Recovery and Scholarship event held for ● Held the third Scholarship Fund flower–replanting Fund flower-replanting TOMODACHI MUFG Financial Group ● Held seventh Job Shadowing program Leaders the Save Our volunteer works (12 times in FY 2013) Program for volunteer ● Launched Common International Exchange ● Launched a Facebook page Asia and the works (three Hito-Machi Treasures of Program (MUFG) focused on MUFG CSR Pacific ended times through Kiko TV the Earth ● Held eighth Job activities July in FY 2014) Program project Shadowing program The Bank of Tokyo● Implemented fourth ESD International Exchange Program ● Held MUFG Junior Tennis Tournament 2013 ● Held sixth Kagaya Kids' Day ● Exhibited at MESSE NAGOYA 2013 Mitsubishi UFJ (BTMU) ● Held MUFG Junior Tennis Tournament 2014 ● Educational Fund Gift Trust ● Kakehashi-Shintaku Ai-no-Kikin Fund donated ● Launched Okuru Shiawase Trust ● Launched Educational Fund Gift Trust received first place in 2013 social welfare facilities, etc. Mitsubishi UFJ Trust ● Dispatched lecturer to The ● Weed-clearing as part of Peter RabbitTM ● Held fifth CSR-Related Nikkei Superior Products and Services Awards Nikkei Veritas University of Tokyo Graduate Forest for the Future activities Business Plans Presentation Award for Excellence School of Conference Engineering --Innovation Case and Banking (MUTB) ● Donated Peter RabbitTM Gardening Diorama to Onagawa Town, Miyagi Prefecture Studies ● Held Children's Visiting Day ● Coastal forest restoration in Kujukurihama Beach ● Participated in Furusato-seiso neighborhood cleanup rally (October, November) ● Conducted e-post campaign (first half 2014)*3 Mitsubishi UFJ ● Donated funds raised by the ● Picture Book and Jazz Collaboration in Tagajo*3 e-post campaign (second half ● Implemented carbon ● Donated to two ● Donated funds raised by the e-post ● Conducted e-post campaign (second half 2013)*3 2012) to MUFG NFUAJ*1 East offsets*3 organizations from Employee ● Coastal forest restoration in campaign (second half 2013) to MUFG ● Donated funds raised by the e-post campaign (first half Securities Holdings Japan Earthquake Recovery Donations Account Kujukurihama Beach*2 NFUAJ*1 East 2013) to MUFG NFUAJ*1 East Japan Earthquake Recovery ● Coastal forest and Scholarship Fund*3 Japan ● Coastal forest restoration in and Scholarship Fund*3 Earthquake restoration in Kujukurihama Beach*2 (MUSHD) ● Blood donation drive at Mejirodai Building Recovery and Kujukurihama Beach*2 ● Conducted e-post campaign (first half 2013)*3 ● Participated in FIT For Charity Run 2013*2 Scholarship ● Conducted Clothing ● Christmas cards for children hospitalized for extended stays*2 Fund*3 Drive*2 ● Made ● Conducted volunteer activities to restore endowment agriculture in disaster areas (five times ● Held Family Visit Day ● Launched DCC Payment ● Reported on special FM ● Donated picture books collected from ● Launched volunteer ● Implemented Cool for a nextthrough June 2014) Service radio program about people in employees to nurseries for evacuee children activities to restore coastal Earth Day (No Overtime generation ● Hosted training programs for ● Conducted volunteer activities for nurseries disaster areas on New Year's forest (four times through July Day) Mitsubishi UFJ personal educators at private for evacuee children (11 times through July 2014) companies Eve 2014) ● Hosted training identification ● Supported farmers in ● Provided assistance for concert for emotional programs for educators technology disaster areas by purchasing care (nine times through July 2014) at private companies NICOS (MUN) course at the their agricultural products University of ● Implemented Cool Earth Day (No Overtime Day) Tokyo ● Launched new forms of voluntary activities to meet needs in disaster areas (five times through March 2014) *1 National Federation of UNESCO Associations in Japan *2 Joint CSR Activity by Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities (MUMSS) and Morgan Stanley MUFG Securities (MSMS). *3 Activity by MUMSS. 10 MUFG CSR Report 2014 Strategy and Profile >> MUFG's CSR Summary of Key Indicators for FY 2013 This page summarizes key indicators concerning the CSR initiatives of MUFG. Reporting Reporting Item Indicator Notes Item Indicator Notes Category Category Greenhouse gas emissions MUFG Total CO 2 emissions Career development for BTMU Top management 77 (80) As of early April 2014 Employees Unadjusted emission 140.8% compared to female employees Middle management factors 299,228 t FY 2012 296 (220) Numbers in Total 373 (300) parentheses indicate Adjusted emission factors 125.4% compared to Female managers 14.8% targets for March 259,590 t FY 2012 (15%) 2015 Cost of environmental MUFG Investment 30.8% compared to Expenditures for social BTMU Education & culture FY 2013 measures by offices 2,382 million yen FY 2012 contribution activities MUTB 159 million yen Local and International Expenses 94.8% compared to MUMSS Social welfare & 5,552 million yen FY 2012 environmental conservation Number of UN-registered MUMSS 76 (as reported by Cumulative as of May 143 million yen CDM consulting projects UNFCCC) 2014 Community Communities contributions, Projects reviewed for social BTMU By Category Projects subject to international exchange, Environment and environmental Category A 1 EP (EP II + EP III) others considerations based on Category B 22 from April 2013 to 1.047 billion yen Equator Principles*1 Category C 3 March 2014 Total*3 1.349 billion yen Total 26 Customer satisfaction Total of Satisfied or Customer By Region (individual customers) Somewhat satisfied Satisfaction Survey Customers Americas 9 BTMU 67.0% Results in FY 2013 Asia and Oceania 10*2 MUTB 68.2% Europe, Middle East, Africa MUMSS 63.9% 8*2 Total 27 MUN 65.0% By Sector *1 For information on project-related corporate loans and project finance advisory services, visit our website at: Infrastructure 6 http://www.bk.mufg.jp/global/csr/eco/implementing.html. Mining 0 Oil and gas 5 *2 The sum of the numbers reported for each region does not match with the total as one of the projects is located Petrochemicals 0 over two regions. Power 15 Total 26 *3 Combined totals for BTMU, MUTB, MUSHD, MUMSS 11 MUFG CSR Report 2014 Strategy and Profile >> Supporting Reconstruction Supporting Reconstruction We are carrying out a range of programs while working to raise awareness wherever we can. All of the group companies work together to promote a number of initiatives. Group Company Initiatives East Japan Earthquake Recovery and Scholarship Fund. For up to 15 years, the fund has been working with local schools MUFG appealed to group companies to undertake in operating a scholarship program and holding various initiatives, through their core businesses and charity support projects for orphaned students (children who lost programs, that will contribute to the reconstruction of one or both of their parents as a result of the earthquake and disaster-affected areas. tsunami) from elementary through high school. The fund is expected to grow to around three billion yen. In February 2014, it also provided support through a large-scale business-matching conference. 1. Scholarship Program Each student is awarded 100,000 yen at the start of the program BTMU, meanwhile, has established a Reconstruction and 20,000 yen every month until high school graduation. The Public-Private Partnership Office at its local branch office in number of scholarship students was 1,128 at the end of FY 2013. Sendai and has been providing reconstruction support The program will issue its last round of new scholarships to children entering elementary school in FY 2014, which will continue until through its business—by offering loans, for example, that those students have graduated from high school in 2026. take advantage of a Reconstruction Agency's assistance Sponsoring a concert in the disaster area 2. Healthy Growth Program program. This program provides a Support Exchange Meeting among scholarship recipients. In December 2013, 31 scholarship recipients Other ongoing efforts include employee volunteering, were invited to the Japan Pro-Footballers Association's Charity holding a picture book and music event for emotional Soccer 2013 event held at Yurtec Stadium Sendai. Participating students enjoyed the day watching the match, walking onto the support and inspiration, and soliciting support for the field as escort kids , and talking with the athletes. reconstruction through sponsored radio programs. 3. Flower-Replanting Program Mediumto Long-Term Reconstruction Assistance Executives and employees from group companies visited elementary and junior high schools in Iwate, Miyagi, and Fukushima Efforts Prefectures, where damage from the tsunami and earthquake was particularly severe, and replanted some 14,000 flowering plants and BTMU MUFG NFUAJ East Japan Earthquake Recovery 500 trees at 15 schools from April through November in FY 2013. To date roughly 35,000 plants have been donated to 42 schools. and Scholarship Fund 4. Volunteer Program Flower-Replanting Program BTMU, in cooperation with a public interest incorporated In FY 2013, some 370 MUFG executives and employees volunteered to help the programs mentioned above, bringing the total number association, the National Federation of UNESCO Associations of volunteers to 940. in Japan (NFUAJ), established in April 2011 the MUFG NFUAJ 12 MUFG CSR Report 2014 Strategy and Profile >> Supporting Reconstruction MUFG Participation in the TOMODACHI Initiative developed for Onagawa Town, Miyagi Prefecture, which uses electronically recorded monetary claims for the As part of the TOMODACHI Initiative, a U.S.-Japan construction of public housing for disaster victims, in the exchange program involving the U.S. government and a hopes that other municipalities will be able to utilize it as well. U.S. non-profit organization, the U.S.-Japan Council, MUFG established the TOMODACHI MUFG International Note: For funding of core projects as part of reconstruction plans in designated Special Zones for Reconstruction in the disaster areas (in 227 municipalities), Exchange Program, a three-year exchange program for the national government subsidizes up to 0.7% of the interest for five years. students and educators from the disaster-affected areas in Japan and their counterparts in the United States. BTMU Seminars on Capital Investment Support for Energy and Reconstruction In FY 2014, the program's third year, 26 junior high and high TOMODACHI MUFG International Exchange Program school students and two teachers from Iwate, Miyagi, and In cooperation with Mitsubishi UFJ Research and Consulting Fukushima prefectures were invited to Los Angeles, Califor(MURC) and MUL, BTMU organized seminars in Tokyo, nia, for a two-week visit from the end of July. The students Nagoya, Osaka, and Sendai to introduce support systems studied English, experienced a homestay, engaged in related both to energy and reconstruction as well as ways to exchange with the local community and businesses, and use electricity and gas efficiently, as responses to electricity also spent time with the California high schools students shortages and potential energy cost increases after the Great who visited Japan the previous year through the program. East Japan Earthquake. At the seminars, Regional Bureaus of Economy, Trade and Industry provided explanations about Initiatives through Business various support programs while Miyagi Prefectural Office explained reconstruction support systems. Power and gas BTMU Financial Assistance based on Public-Private companies gave presentations on energy-conservation Partnerships methods as well as energy-efficient equipment for which consumers can apply for subsidies. MUL discussed details BTMU has established the Reconstruction Public-Private about utilizing subsidies, MURC talked about businesses in Partnership Office at its local branch office in Sendai, with reconstruction areas, and BTMU explained interest subsidy the aim of promoting investment in the region targeted for programs. A total of 106 companies participated. We will reconstruction, based on partnerships with national and continue to support customers by promoting the effective local government agencies. use of information from government and the latest trends. Making use of the support systems available under the BTMU Support through Business Matching Interest Subsidy Program in Special Zones for Reconstruction (see Note) of the government's Reconstruction BTMU invited regional banks (the Bank of Iwate, the 77 Agency, we provided the largest amount of funding of any Bank, and the Toho Bank) and customers from the disaster major banking group in Japan, at about 13 billion yen (in 1 1 areas to a large-scale business conference known as loans) cumulatively. Business Link Shobai Hanjo, held in February 2014 by MUFG. The meeting offered them a variety of opportuniIn addition, we are expanding a support program we ties to meet, as well as for business negotiations. 13 MUFG CSR Report 2014 Strategy and Profile >> Supporting Reconstruction Other Initiatives MUMSS Coastal Reforestation Effort MUMSS Picture Books and Music: Supporting Through the efforts of employee volunteers, MUMSS, Reconstruction together with MSMS, has been supporting activities to restore the coastal forest at Kujukurihama Beach (Sammu MUMSS supported a Picture Book and Jazz Collaboration City, Chiba Prefecture) since 2012, where trees suffered salt event in October 2013, held at the Tagajo City Cultural damage from the tsunami caused by the Great East Japan Center, and led by our company's clinical psychologist Earthquake. From April 2012 to July 2014, more than 210 (professor of the Graduate School at Ritsumeikan Univeremployees and family members visited the site a total of sity). five times. In spring, they planted Japanese black pine; in summer, they returned to check on the seedlings' MUTB Donation of Peter RabbitTM Gardening Diorama progress, and to weed and clean up the area around them. Stone monument and gardening display MUTB donated a gardening diorama depicting the world As a corporate group CSR activity under MUSHD, about 25 of Peter RabbitTM, displayed at its head office building until employees from KOKUSAI Asset Management, MUS January 2014, to Onagawa Town, Miyagi Prefecture. Business Services, and MUMSS, all MUFG companies, carried out supplementary tree planting and weeding at This display commemorates 25 years of our mascot, Peter the same site in April 2013. Rabbit ™. It was created by world-renowned garden designer Kazuyuki Ishihara and donated to a regional MUN Employee Volunteers' Activities to Support medical facility in Onagawa Town with wishes for recovery Reconstruction from the 2011 earthquake. Installation costs were covered by donations from directors and employees, and money Since July 2011, MUN has been allowing employees to left over after the installation was donated to the town. make use of its volunteer leave system. The program has evolved over time to reflect the changing needs of the Support for the Disaster Area through Radio Coastal forest restoration in Kujukurihama Beach MUN disaster-affected areas. A total of 649 employees had Broadcasts participated in a variety of volunteer activities by July 2014, aiming to help the local people, including through the MUN Dear Partner FM radio program hosted by Masataka restoration of farming activities and the provision of Matsutoya invites special guests at the forefront of emotional care. The company actively supported the reconstruction efforts every month to share their thoughts volunteer activities on the necessary expenses. Many about the reconstruction of the disaster-affected areas and employees participated in a variety of ways, such as by disaster prevention measures. By providing an ongoing purchasing the farm products harvested from the activity discussion about the disaster, MUN aims to contribute to areas, and by donating children's clothing and picture the reconstruction of disaster-affected areas. books to nurseries that had accepted evacuee children. 14 MUFG CSR Report 2014 Strategy and Profile >> Corporate Governance Corporate Governance To realize the mediumto long-term goal articulated in our Corporate Vision—to be the world's most trusted financial group—MUFG treats the development and maintenance of a properly functioning corporate governance system as one of management's highest priorities. MUFG Governance Functions of the Holding Company Governance Structure of the Holding Company The holding company (MUFG) has established a fair and General Meeting Corporate Auditors/ of Shareholders Board of Corporate Auditors transparent corporate governance system including a (three of five auditors are external) board of corporate auditors and voluntary committees (i.e., not required by legislation) in incorporate outside perspecCorporate tives into management deliberations. We are making every Auditors Office Chairman Report and effort to enhance the system. recommend Committees reporting Advisory Board Global Advisory Board Board of Directors (several outside directors) to the Board of Directors To provide general management advice and maintain a position of supervision and checks with respect to Governance Committee directors responsible for operational execution, five of Nomination and MUFG's 15 directors are either outside directors or Compensation Committee non-executive directors with a high degree of indepenAdvise Report Risk Committee dence from MUFG. Four outside directors are designated Executive Committee as independent directors, as per the regulations of the Internal Audit and Tokyo Stock Exchange and other domestic financial President Compliance Committee Various committees & CEO products exchanges. The Board of Corporate Auditors is made up of five members, with the three outside corpoReport rate auditors comprising a majority and each satisfying the Integrated Corporate Audit requirements for Securing Independent Director(s) / Corporate Risk Business Internal Audit Division Auditor(s) under the Company Law and stock exchange Staff Units Management Group Units regulations. In addition, MUFG has established the Governance Committee, the Nomination and Compensation Internal Audit and Compliance Committees of The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Committee, the Risk Committee, and the Internal Audit Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and Banking and Mitsubishi UFJ Securities Holdings and Compliance Committee as voluntary committees within the Board of Directors; a majority of these commitDoes not include external members Includes external members tees' members are from outside the company (outside directors or outside legal, accounting, or financial experts). The holding company has also established the Advisory Board and the Global Advisory Board, which is made up of 15 MUFG CSR Report 2014 Strategy and Profile >> Corporate Governance external experts, and holds regular meetings of these Overview of Committees under the Board of Directors boards as advisory bodies to the Executive Committee Committee Name Scope of Committee Deliberations Members (which deliberates and decides on the execution of Governance Committee Matters related to the status of corporate Chairperson: Kunie Okamoto (Outside director) important business matters). governance and relevant policies and Members: Tsutomu Okuda (Outside director) structure Ryuji Araki (Outside director) Yuko Kawamoto (Outside director*) MUFG Group Corporate Governance Framework Haruka Matsuyama (Outside director) Shinsaku Iwahara (External expert/ Professor) Cross-Group governance frameworks covering risk Nobuyuki Hirano (President & CEO, MUFG) management, compliance, and internal audits bolster the Nomination and Matters related to the selection of candidates Chairperson: Tsutomu Okuda (Outside director) governance of MUFG and aid the holding company in Compensation Commitfor directorships at the holding company, Members: Ryuji Araki (Outside director) supervising Group business activities. The holding tee important personnel affairs at the holding Kunie Okamoto (Outside director) company and Group subsidiaries, and Yuko Kawamoto (Outside director*) company assigns directors to BTMU, MUTB, and MUSHD to remuneration for senior management of the Haruka Matsuyama (Outside director) provide additional oversight of the operations of these holding company and Group subsidiaries Nobuyuki Hirano (President & CEO, MUFG) major subsidiaries. Risk Committee Matters related to the status, control, and Chairperson: Yuko Kawamoto (Outside director*) management of all types of risk Members: Tsutomu Okuda (Outside director) In addition, these subsidiaries have each appointed outside Akira Ariyoshi (External expert/ Professor, Ph.D) directors as a means of actively stimulating objective discusKenzo Yamamoto (External expert) Akihiko Kagawa (Senior Managing Director and Chief sion at board meetings and promoting greater transparency. Compliance and Risk Officer, MUFG) Each of these major subsidiaries has also voluntarily established an internal audit and compliance committee that Internal Audit and Matters related to internal audits and Chairperson: Ryuji Araki (Outside director) Compliance Committee statutory compliance at the holding Members: Haruka Matsuyama (Outside director) reports to its respective board of directors. These committees company and Group subsidiaries Shin Kikuchi (External expert/ Attorney at law) are made up of a majority of external members, including Akira Yamate (External expert/ Certified public accountant) outside directors and externally appointed experts in law, Tatsuo Wakabayashi (Deputy Chairman and Chief Audit Officer, MUFG) accounting, or other fields. *Not an outside director as defined by Article 2, Item 15, of the Company Law (As of July 1, 2014) Members of Advisory Board Members of Global Advisory Board Mr. Toru Nagashima Mr. John C. Dugan Associate Professor Simon S.C. Tay (Senior Adviser, TEIJIN LIMITED) (Partner, Covington Burling LLP/ Former Comptroller (Chairman of the Singapore Institute of International of the Currency, United States Treasury Department) Affairs/ Former Member of Parliament, Singapore) Dr. Shin-ichi Fukuda (Professor, the University of Tokyo, Graduate Dr. Victor K. Fung Dr. Gertrude Tumpel-Gugerell School of Economics) (Group Chairman, Fung Group, Hong Kong/ Former (Member of Supervisory Board, Österreichische Honorary Chairman, the International Chamber of Bundesbahnen-Holding AG/ Former Member of Dr. Mariko Fujii Commerce) Executive Board, European Central Bank) (Professor, the University of Tokyo, Research Center for Advanced Science and Technology) Ambassador John V. Roos (Former United States Ambassador to Japan) Mr. Akio Mimura (Senior Advisor, Honorary Chairman, Nippon Lord (James) Sassoon, Kt Steel & Sumitomo Metal Corporation) (Director, Jardine Matheson Holdings Limited/ Former Commercial Secretary to the Treasury, United (As of July 1, 2014) Kingdom) (As of July 1, 2014) 16 MUFG CSR Report 2014 Strategy and Profile >> Risk Management Risk Management We comprehensively monitor and manage various risks to maintain financial soundness. MUFG Risk Management Policy sions at, and reports and recommendations from, commitRisk Management System tees established specially for risk management purposes. Numerous changes in our business environment have The holding company has established committees to Holding Company (MUFG) occurred as a result of globalization of the financial assist management in managing risks relevant to the industry, the advancement of information technology, and Group. Following the fundamental risk management Risk Committee Board of changes in economic conditions. We aim to be a global policies determined by the board of directors, each group Directors Management Planning and comprehensive financial group encompassing leading company establishes its own systems and procedures for Corporate Risk Executive Committee Management commercial and trust banks, and securities firms. Risk identifying, analyzing and managing various types of risks Committee Committee (including ALM) (including crisis management plays an increasingly important role as the from both quantitative and qualitative perspectives. The management) risks faced by financial groups such as us increase in holding company seeks to enhance group wide risk Corporate Risk Market Risk, Group-wide Management scope and variety. identification, to integrate and improve the Group’s risk Credit Division Liquidity Risk, Operational Risk, Committee (coordinates risk management system and related methods, to maintain management) Operations Risk We identify various risks arising from businesses based on asset quality, and to eliminate concentrations of specific Credit & Investment uniform criteria, and implement integrated risk managerisks. Management Credit Risk ment to ensure a stronger financial condition and to Division maximize shareholder value. Based on this policy, we Corporate Risk Management identify, measure, control and monitor a wide variety of Division, Information risks so as to achieve a stable balance between earnings Operations & Asset Risk Systems and risks. We undertake risk management to create an Planning Division appropriate capital structure and to achieve optimal Compliance allocation of resources. Division, Legal Division Legal Risk Public Relations MUFG Risk Management System Division Reputation Risk We have adopted an integrated risk management system to promote close cooperation among the holding Establish fundamental Discuss and Discuss and company and group companies. The holding company report policy and provide report guidance and advice and the major subsidiaries (which include BTMU, MUTB and MUSHD) each appoint a chief risk officer and establish Group Companies an independent risk management division. The board of directors of the holding company determines risk manageBTMU, MUTB, MUSHD, Other Subsidiaries ment policies for various type of risk based on the discus17 MUFG CSR Report 2014 Strategy and Profile >> Compliance Compliance We go to great lengths to ensure full compliance throughout MUFG, guided by our Corporate Vision, which emphasizes strict compliance with laws and regulations and the conduct of business in a transparent manner, to gain the public's trust and confidence. Compliance Framework ensure that our Vision and Principles are well known and Compliance Framework understood among directors and employees throughout Holding Company (MUFG) Compliance Divisions are in place at the holding company the group, we engage in discussions about required (MUFG), as well as at BTMU, MUTB, and MUSHD. The policies and measures and continue to implement a Board of Board of Directors Internal Audit and Corporate Compliance Committee Compliance Divisions at each company promote complivariety of initiatives. Auditors Group Compliance ance policies and measures by developing compliance Executive Committee Committee programs and offering training, etc., and report the status MUFG also carries out regular compliance awareness of compliance to the Executive Committee and to the surveys of group employees. The FY 2013 survey received CCO (Chief Compliance Officer) Group CCO Committee Boards of Directors of the respective companies. All four responses from over 80,000 employees, and confirmed companies have also established voluntary committees, that there is still a high level of awareness regarding such as a Compliance Committee and an Internal Audit compliance. Individual group companies also grasp and Compliance Division (coordinates compliance issues) and Compliance Committee (a majority of which consist analyze their own issues by raising their own questions, of external members), for the deliberation of important and take steps toward improvement. Consultation and report Guidance, advice and instruction compliance issues. We have also established a Group CCO Committee comprising the Chief Compliance Officer Internal Reporting Systems BTMU, MUTB, MUSHD, Other Subsidiaries and Deputy Chief Compliance Officers of the holding company. The Group CCO Committee deliberates MUFG has established internal reporting systems that aim Group Companies important compliance issues as well as issues that require to identify compliance issues early so that any problems a common understanding throughout the group, shares can be quickly rectified. This system includes an problematic issues for the group as a whole, and works to independent external compliance hotline. Furthermore, prevent problems from occurring. Expanded Group CCO the holding company has set up an MUFG Compliance Committee meetings, with additional members, are held Helpline that supplements group-companies' internal for deliberations on compliance issues that are in common reporting systems and provides a reporting channel for among multiple group companies. directors and employees of group companies. Group-Wide Efforts MUFG adopted its current Corporate Vision in April 2012, and revised its Principles of Ethics and Conduct in December that year, with the aim of providing concrete standards for decision-making and conduct under that Vision. To 18 MUFG CSR Report 2014 Strategy and Profile >> Compliance Major Compliance Policies and Measures Policy for Conflicts of Interest Management Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group, the holding (1) Situations where a client reasonably expects 4. Management System for Conflicts of Interest MUFG Conflicts of Interest Management company, and its subsidiaries and affiliates MUFG to prioritize the client's best interest MUFG shall centralize the management of (collectively, MUFG ) shall establish the (e.g., advisory service) conflicts of interest by establishing divisions MUFG has established a system whereby items that might following policy for conflicts of interest (2) Situations where MUFG could inappropriresponsible for management and control of management and take all necessary actions to pose a conflict of interest are centrally managed at the ensure all officers and employees to comply with ately benefit in the market using information conflicts of interest at each company under a obtained from transactions with clients legal duty to establish management system for holding company to prevent any untoward damages to the policy and not to falsely harm clients' interest. conflicts of interest. MUFG shall comply with customer interests. 1. Conflicts of Interest (3) Situations where high reputation risk applicable laws and regulations related to resulting from transactions between MUFG conflicts of interest and maintain appropriate A conflict of interest means the situation where and clients could arise We have also announced a Policy for Conflicts of Interest management for conflicts of interest. an MUFG's client's interest conflicts with MUFG's Examples for Managed Businesses include: M&A Management, and conduct trainings for the education of or one MUFG's client's interest conflicts with advisory, Securitization of Assets/Receivables, 5. Measures for Management of Conflicts of other MUFG's clients'. While such conflicts of Interest officers and employees as well as periodic reviews of the Loan Syndication, Principal Investment, Equity interest occur on a day-to-day basis as a result of management system. conglomerations of financial institutions and and Debt Underwriting, and Bond Management. With the following measures MUFG shall prevent adverse effects from conflicts of interest issues diversification of financial trading, MUFG shall 3. Companies with Requirement for Conflicts and avoid falsely damaging clients' interest. MUFG Response to Anti-Social Elements establish appropriate business management and of Interest Management compliance system to prevent adverse effects (1) Separating a division/company conducting a from conflicts of interest within the Group. MUFG companies conducting Managed transaction with potential risk of adverse effects MUFG has announced a Basic Policy regarding Anti-Social Businesses shall be required to develop by conflicts of interest from other 2 . Identifying Transactions with Potential Risk appropriate management system for conflicts Elements, which includes organized crime exclusion of Adverse Effects from Conflicts of Interest of interest. divisions/companies clauses in contracts, transaction terms and other agree(2) Changing the conditions/methods of MUFG shall identify in advance businesses, Examples of companies with requirement for ments, and is reinforcing efforts to ensure that anti-social which require special management ( Managed conflicts of interest management include: either/both transactions with potential risk of adverse effects by conflicts of interest elements cannot take advantage of the financial system. Businesses ), from businesses in the following situations. MUFG shall intensively manage The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd., (3) Terminating either one of transactions with transactions with potential risk of adverse Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and Banking Corporation, potential risk of adverse effects by conflicts MUFG Basic Policy regarding Anti-Social Elements effects from conflicts of interest in performing Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities Co., of interest the Managed Businesses, taking into considerLtd., kabu.com Securities Co., Ltd., The TAISHO Bank, Ltd., and The Chukyo Bank, Ltd. (4) Notifying clients of potential risk of adverse MUFG has adopted the following Basic Policy regarding ation reputation risk. effects by conflicts of interest Anti-Social Elements, and our officers and employees are striving to ensure the propriety and safety of all group Basic Policy regarding Anti-Social Elements operations by observing this Basic Policy. 1. Response as an Organization 2 . Cooperation with External Specialist 4. Civil and Criminal Legal Responses in Organizations Times of Emergency In relation to anti-social elements, the Company has established the foundation of Under normal circumstances, the Company The Company shall reject improper demands express provisions in the Principles of Ethics endeavors to establish a close cooperative from anti-social elements, and take legal and Conduct and Internal Rules, etc., and will relationship with external specialist organizaactions on both a civil and criminal basis, as the respond as an entire organization, from the top tions such as the police, the Centers for the need arises. management downward. In addition, the Elimination of Boryokudan, and lawyers. 5. Prohibition of Secret Deals and Provision of Company will guarantee the safety of 3. Blocking of Relationships, including Funds employees who would respond to anti-social Business Transactions elements. The Company shall absolutely not engage in The Company shall block all relationships with secret deals with anti-social elements. anti-social elements, including business The Company shall absolutely not provide relationships. funds to anti-social elements. 19 MUFG CSR Report 2014 Strategy and Profile >> Financial Crime Countermeasures Financial Crime Countermeasures MUFG is implementing diverse countermeasures against malicious financial crimes. Financial Crime Countermeasures and Victim biometric authentication, to prevent losses from cash card BTMU began to offer a one-time password application for Assistance forgery and theft. The banks are also implementing smartphones, which is used for transaction authentication countermeasures to prevent strangers from learning or for personal Internet banking transfers and other purposes. Recently, there has been an increase in the number of guessing passwords, such as installing rear-view mirrors It is designed to display a one-time password that crimes that involve the stealing of customers' ID numbers for ATM users, installing polarized film on ATM screens, and becomes invalid after a fixed period of time, thereby and passwords for Internet banking using fake emails, and displaying reminders about password management on reducing the risk of illicit transaction by unauthorized third that infect customers' computers with a virus to frauduATM screens. parties. lently transmit money. Likewise, there has been a rapid increase in the victims of malicious solicitation for investBTMU Security Measures for Internet Banking Service MUN Introduction of PCIDSS to Prevent Illicit Card ment. Each group company is proactively implementing MUTB Use diverse countermeasures against these crimes and BTMU and MUTB are protecting customers' valuable providing assistance to victims. information by using advanced encryption technologies Throughout the company, MUN is advancing conformity for Internet banking transactions. The banks have estabwith the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard BTMU Loss Prevention from Money Transfer and lished appropriate security systems with 24-hour monitor(PCIDSS), which is an international credit card industry MUTB Investment Fraud ing for Internet-based attacks, and address a variety of security standard established for the safe handling of risks, including unauthorized third-party access, informacredit card member data. In September 2010, MUN BTMU and MUTB take numerous measures to make tion leaks, impersonation of contractors, and so on. acquired certification of conformity with the EC Card customers aware of the criminal methods used in money Settlement System which provides Internet card settletransfer and investment fraud. Such measures include BTMU Security Measures to Reduce Losses from ment. MUN has been steadily expanding the range of placing posters in branch offices and displaying warnings MUTB Phishing applications since then, and will continue working to on ATM screens, and so on. Attendants frequently remind improve security levels. customers to take precautions or to verify the details of BTMU and MUTB have adopted an electronic signature transactions. Also, when customers open an account, system which displays a warning message when the e-mail BTMU Assistance for Victims of Money Transfer Fraud attendants ask them to show their identification and make contents have been tampered with during transmission MUTB inquiries about the purpose of use, to make sure that the and allows customers to confirm the message sender. Based on Japan's Act on Damage Recovery Benefit account won't be used for crimes. The banks have also made arrangements so that customDistributed from Fund in Bank Accounts Used for Crimes, ers can easily verify that they are connected to the which entered into force in June 2008, we repay victims BTMU Preventing Losses from Forged or Stolen ATM authentic Internet server when using Internet banking with funds arising from criminal damages and remaining in MUTB Cards service from their personal computers. As a measure to financial institutions' bank accounts if they were used for prevent virus infection on their computers, the banks offer criminal purposes. BTMU and MUTB have been introducing technologies to Rapport anti-virus software for Internet banking service, verify user identity, such as electronic IC cards and free of charge. 20 MUFG CSR Report 2014 Strategy and Profile >> Financial Crime Countermeasures BTMU Assistance for Victims of Fraudulent MUTB Withdrawals MUMSS BTMU and MUTB compensate victims for losses suffered from the use of forged or stolen cash cards, stolen passbooks, and Internet bank fraud withdrawals based on Japan's Depositor Protection Act and on an arrangement announced by the Japanese Bankers Association in February 2008. Based on a resolution of the board of directors of the Japan Securities Dealers Association, MUMSS provides compensation to victims of unauthorized withdrawals that were made using forged or stolen cards. 21 MUFG CSR Report 2014 Strategy and Profile >> Major Policies Major Policies MUFG's CSR activities are guided by a set of principles, policies, and rules. BTMU Activities against Cluster Bombs Director in Charge of Facilitating Financing, has estabhttp://www.tr.mufg.jp/ippan/soudan/kinyu_soudan_joukyo MUTB lished an Office to Facilitate Financing, and has appointed u.html (in Japanese) Cluster bombs contain multiple smaller bombs that scatter Managers to Facilitate Financing at each sales branch over a wide area. As they have often affected civilians, the office. The entire bank is working to strengthen initiatives international community has expressed humanitarian to facilitate financing. Please visit the following website for concerns about the impacts of these munitions. Japanese the status of our initiatives to facilitate financing (number legislation, in principle, prohibits the production and of loans and amounts). possession of cluster bombs. Based on the enactment of that legislation, and in accordance with the spirit of its own http://www.bk.mufg.jp/info/kinyu_enkatsuka/index.html (in Charter of Corporate Conduct, the Japanese Bankers Japanese) Association, recognizing the importance of the banking industry's public role, agreed in October 2010 that MUTB Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and Banking Japanese banks shall not provide financing for the manufacture of cluster bombs in Japan or overseas. MUTB has established a Management Policy to Facilitate Financing, which specifies the basic policy for facilitating BTMU and MUTB are full members of the Japanese financing as well as Management Regulations to Facilitate Bankers Association. Both clearly stipulate in their credit Financing, which specify the basic items and internal policies and financing checksheets that the provision of systems for management to facilitate financing. financing for the manufacture of cluster bombs is prohibited. Both companies strictly observe these procedures. The company has also appointed a Director in Charge of Facilitating Financing as well as Managers to Facilitate Initiatives to Facilitate Financing Financing at each branch, and established a Smooth Retail Financing Office, a Smooth Corporate Financing Office, an BTMU The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Office to Facilitate Financing and a Management Office to Facilitate Financing at headquarters as specialized units to BTMU has adopted Management Principles to Facilitate facilitate financing. The company's officers and employees Financing as a basic policy, positioned smoother financing are united in implementing works to facilitate financing, to customers as one of its most important roles in society, with the active involvement of corporate management. and is working toward its realization. Please visit the following website for the status of MUTB's initiatives to facilitate financing (number of loans and To establish and maintain an appropriate management amounts). structure to facilitate financing, BTMU has appointed a 22 MUFG CSR Report 2014 Strategy and Profile >> Major Policies BTMU Designated Dispute Resolution Organization Designated Dispute Resolution Organization System MUTB System The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ (BTMU) MUMSS Organization Japanese Bankers Association*1 Designated dispute resolution organizations are dispute resolution bodies designated by government authorities. JBA Customer Relations Center Contact From a fair and neutral standpoint, they are to deal with 0570-017109 or 03-5252-3772 complaints and requests from customers for dispute resolution concerning the actions of financial institutions. Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and Banking (MUTB) The following designated dispute resolution organizations Organization Japanese Bankers Association*1 have been contracted by BTMU, MUTB, and MUMSS for JBA Customer Relations Center these matters. Contact 0570-017109 or 03-5252-3772 Organization Trust Companies Association of Japan*2 Trust Consultation Center Contact 0120-817335 or 03-3241-7335 Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities (MUMSS) Organization Financial Instruments Mediation Assistance Center*3 Consultation Service Contact 0120-64-5005 or 03-3669-9833 (fax) *1 The Japanese Bankers Association is a designated dispute resolution organization under the Banking Act and the Norinchukin Bank Act. *2 The Trust Companies Association of Japan is a designated dispute resolution organization under the Trust Business Act and the Act on Provision, etc. of Trust Business by Financial Institutions. *3 The Financial Instruments Mediation Assistance Center is a designated legal organization for dispute resolution that aims to resolve troubles related to financial instruments, including stocks, investment trusts, and foreign exchange margin trading (FX). 23 MUFG CSR Report 2014 Strategy and Profile >> CSR Structure CSR Structure MUFG has established a CSR structure integrated with its management strategies. MUFG CSR Promotion Structure of MUFG MUFG has established a Corporate Social Responsibility Committee (meets twice per year) to promote CSR activities throughout the group, consisting mostly of members of the Executive Committee of the holding company. The committee discusses the group's CSR policies, develops strategies for the entire group, and works to strengthen cooperation between member companies. Each group company is engaged in CSR CSR Structure of MUFG activities and maximizes its special characteristics along Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group (MUFG) with the group policy. During FY 2013, the Corporate Social Responsibility Committee met in July and March, and Executive Committee discussed future directions for activities based on the current status of CSR activities in the group, as well as Corporate Social other topics. Responsibility Committee CSR Promotion Division The Bank of Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and Mitsubishi UFJ Securities Mitsubishi UFJ NICOS (MUN) Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ (BTMU) Banking (MUTB) Holdings (MUSHD) Management Committee/ Executive Committee/ Executive Committee/ MUSHD Group Executive Committee CSR Promotion Committee CSR Committee CSR Committee CSR Promotion Office, CSR Office, Corporate Corporate Communications CSR Promotion Division Corporate Planning Planning Division Division Department 24 MUFG CSR Report 2014 Strategy and Profile >> Participation in Initiatives Participation in Initiatives MUFG participates in a variety of initiatives to identify, promote and realize the adoption of the best environmental and sustainability practices. MUFG UN Global Compact impacts even after financing support has been rendered. BTMU Participating in the United Nations Environment MUTB Programme Finance Initiative MUFG has endorsed the United Nations Global Compact. While EP originally applied only to project finance, its third A voluntary code of conduct advocated in 1999 by the version effective June 4, 2013 (EP III) now includes large BTMU and MUTB are signatories to the United Nations then-Secretary General of the United Nations, Kofi Annan, corporate loans within its scope, thus strengthening Environment Programme Finance Initiative (UNEP FI). This it calls for corporations and organizations around the world environmental and social considerations. All financial is a global partnership between UNEP and the financial to work within their respective spheres of influence to institutions that have adopted EP currently apply EP III. sector with the mission to identify, promote, and realize the support internationally recognized standards for humanadoption of the best environmental and sustainability rights, labor, the environment, and anti-corruption and to To show that its EP implementation is reliable, BTMU has practice at all levels of financial institution operations. act based on them. been disclosing its internal EP procedures and information on financed projects to an independent third party and, MUTB Promotion of Principles for Responsible InvestMUFG, as a financial group that upholds the philosophy of since FY 2012, has been obtaining an Independent ment (PRI) contributing to the realization of a sustainable society, Assurance Report to demonstrate that all of the disclosed endorses the principles of the Global Compact, and works information related to EP implementation*2 is compliant UNEP FI and the UN Global Compact jointly promote the to fulfill its duties as a global citizen. with the guidelines. Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI), which were announced in 2006. The PRI are intended to address *1 The Equator Principles is a framework independently established by the decision-making issues related to environmental and financial industry to assess and manage social and environmental impacts and risks associated with financing large-scale development social responsibility and corporate governance (ESG) for projects, in order to avert and mitigate the impacts of such developinvestments within the scope of an organization's fiduciary ment on the surrounding environment and communities. EP requires responsibility, and to improve the long-term results of assessment of the environmental and social risks of projects from the planning stage, implementation of effective measures, and manageinvestments. In May 2006, MUTB was among the first ment of such measures even after financing is complete. BTMU and 79 organizations in Japan to endorse these Principles, and other financial institutions in 34 countries worldwide have adopted the actively participates in the PRI Japan Network, which Equator Principles as of July 2014. promotes PRI and responsible investments in Japan. BTMU The Equator Principles *2 http://www.bk.mufg.jp/global/csr/eco/implementing.html BTMU adopted the Equator Principles (EP)*1 as a framework to ensure that environmental considerations are made when financing large-scale development projects. We advise our clients to take due care in complying with international standards, and also monitor environmental 25 MUFG CSR Report 2014 Strategy and Profile >> Participation in Initiatives BTMU Signing of Principles for Financial Action for the MUTB 21st Century BTMU and MUTB signed the Principles for Financial Action towards a Sustainable Society (also known as Principles for Financial Action for the 21st Century) when they were first announced in November 2011, developed mainly through the efforts of financial institutions. The Principles include seven items for best-effort actions by the financial industry to create a sustainable society, and guidelines for each sub-industry to put the principles into action. The banks will continue to actively consider the environment and society based on these principles. MUFG Participation in the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) The Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) is a project run by institutional investors from around the world that urges corporations to disclose their strategies on climate change as well as detailed data on their emissions of greenhouse gases. MUFG has participated in the project since 2004. BTMU Exhibit at MESSE NAGOYA 2013 The MESSE NAGOYA 2013, one of Japan's largest multisector trade exhibitions, was held in Nagoya in November 2013, under the theme of Environment & Energy, Safety & Security, and New Manufacturing. This was the eighth such exhibition and drew more than 60,000 visitors, with the participation of some 800 companies, the highest number ever. BTMU has put an effort into this exhibition every year by introducing each group company's environmental and social contribution activities using video, panel displays, and mini-seminars. 26 MUFG CSR Report 2014 Strategy and Profile >> Our Stakeholders and MUFG Our Stakeholders and MUFG MUFG's business activities are founded on Environment Shareholders the support of our various stakeholders in MUFG indirectly influences the MUFG is listed on the Tokyo, Nagoya and environmental impacts of our customers' New York stock exchanges, and has Japan, across Asia, and worldwide. operations through financing and the approximately 740,000 institutional and provision of various financial services. We individual shareholders. We will continue working to maintain also use electricity, gas, water and other mutually harmonious and prosperous resources, and emit CO 2 and waste from our business activities and offices. relations with all our stakeholders and to contribute to the realization of a sustainable society. Local and International Communities MUFG operates in hundreds of Customers MUFG communities in Japan and overseas, with MUFG provides services to approxi789 domestic retail branches, 315 mately 40 million individual customers domestic corporate branches and 1,150 and 500,000 corporate customers. We branches in over 40 countries worldwide have about 144 trillion yen in deposits (see Note). While we are active in the and 101 trillion yen in loans outstanding. international community as a global financial group, our employees at each location are also in contact with many people as members of their local communities. Employees Business Partners MUFG has 253 consolidated subsidiaries MUFG has diverse business partners with about 140,000 employees in total including providers of financial products on a consolidated basis. and services and partners in business alliances. Note: The number of locations is the total of BTMU, MUTB, and MUMSS locations. (As of March 31, 2014) 27 MUFG CSR Report 2014 Economy >> Relations with Shareholders and Investors Relations with Shareholders and Investors We strive to increase our corporate value by manifesting our comprehensive strengths as a group and responding to the expectations of customers and society. We are also striving to enhance two-way communication with our shareholders and investors. Medium-Term Business Plan see the following website. regarding our financial results and using various other channels. We also carry out diverse activities such as MUFG Strategies Aimed at Stable Growth http://www.mufg.jp/english/ir/fs/ responding to requests for interviews and regularly visiting investors. FY 2013 was the second year of our three-year mediumCapital Management and IR term business plan, and MUFG made progress in laying a MUFG IR Activities for Individual Investors foundation for sustainable future growth through the MUFG Appropriate Capital Policy implementation of both offensive and defensive measures. We clearly convey MUFG's financial information and In Japan, we contributed to the recovery of the domestic In our aim to raise corporate value, our capital policy management strategies to individual investors through economy from a financial perspective by supporting retail emphasizes balance between maintaining sufficient equity seminars and so on. Our website also plainly explains customers' asset formation through Nippon Individual capital, further enhancing shareholder returns, and MUFG using video and diagrams in the section for Savings Account (NISA) and other measures, and by utilizing capital for increased earning power. individual investors. supporting our corporate customers through meeting their financing needs related to M&A, capital investment, MUFG Basic Stance on Investor Relations http://www.mufg.jp/investors/ (in Japanese) etc. Looking towards mediumto long-term growth, MUFG made Thailand's Bank of Ayudhya Public Company MUFG discloses information on our financial conditions, MUFG Shareholder Benefit Program (MUFG Sharea subsidiary, expanding our business base in Asia where business strategies, and risks involved in our operations in holder Club) further economic growth can be expected. With regards a fair and timely manner. We also aim to raise corporate to business management, we strengthened our govervalue by giving market perceptions proper consideration The MUFG Shareholder Club provides preferential nance approach through the establishment of a Risk in our management processes. services, making use of the comprehensive strengths of Committee and a Global Advisory Board. MUFG, including preferential interest rates on time deposThe MUFG website provides information for investor its and discounted stock trading commissions. MUFG Maintaining Sound Financial Foundations relations (IR). Under the Basel III regulatory frameworks for capital and www.mufg.jp/english/ir/ liquidity introduced in March 2013, our Common Equity MUFG IR Activities for Institutional Investors Tier 1 capital ratio, which shows the percentage of core capital, is sufficient at 11.25%. The non-performing loan We proactively provide information to domestic and ratio remains low at 1.41% (as of March 31, 2014). For details, foreign institutional investors by holding investor meetings 28 MUFG CSR Report 2014 Economy >> Relations with Shareholders and Investors MUFG General Shareholders' Meeting Shareholder Composition (Common Shares) Financial Products Traders National or Local Governments The ninth Annual General Meeting of Shareholders was 2.8% 0.0% held in June 2014 at the Nippon Budokan (Tokyo). A Other Investors (individuals and others) Foreign Investors webcast of the meeting can be viewed at the following site: 14.7% 38.1% http://www.mufg.jp/investors/movie/ (in Japanese) MUFG MUFG Selected for SRI Indexes Other Corporations 14.8% In recent years, socially responsible investment (SRI) has become increasingly popular in the world of asset management as a standard for investment decisions that are based not only on financial perspectives, but also the broader views of society, including environmental considFinancial Institutions 29.4% erations and social contributions. MUFG has been selected Excluding treasury shares;percentages calculated to the first decimal point. for inclusion in SRI indexes, such as the DJSI Asia Pacific, (As of March 31, 2014) FTSE4Good Index Series, and MS-SRI (as of July 31, 2014). 29 MUFG CSR Report 2014 Economy >> Relations with Business Partners Relations with Business Partners MUFG works with a wide range of business partners, including institutions that provide financial products and services, and business alliance partners. We strive for fairness in all interactions with these business partners, and work to create value through collaboration. MUFG Fairness in Business 3. Secure Management of Confidential Information equals. We do not use a dominant bargaining position to demand or receive unfair benefits. MUFG has included three items in its Principles of Ethics We securely manage all confidential information about and Conduct to create and sustain healthy relationships suppliers that we obtain through purchasing activities. MUFG Creating New Societal Value through Collaborawith business partners— acting with honesty and integtion rity, adherence to laws and regulations and combating 4. Environmental Considerations criminal activity. Collaboration with business partners holds the potential We consider environmental implications, such as mitigafor creating new societal value by making the most of the We maintain fairness in business by carefully observing the tion of global warming and biodiversity protection, when merits of each company's core businesses. We strive to law under all circumstances, and by building fair and making purchasing decisions. In principle, we only develop relationships with our business partners based on sound partnerships, while ensuring that we do not support purchase office paper which is produced using approprithis understanding not only to provide services and anti-social, corrupt, or criminal elements. ate forest management practices and is otherwise products that are more useful to society, but also to manufactured in an eco-friendly manner. We respect contribute to the development of healthy financial markets MUFG Approach to Purchasing Activity companies that have obtained environmental certificaand the construction and development of social tions and otherwise try to protect the environment, and infrastructure. MUFG purchases paper and other materials in accordance work to deepen our partnerships with such companies. with the principles discussed below. 5. Requesting Cooperation from Suppliers 1. Fair and Honest Selection and Treatment of Suppliers. We ask that our suppliers maintain fair and sound business We determine suppliers fairly and honestly based on practices. This includes respect for basic human rights, economic common sense. We do not give special compliance with laws and regulations, environmental treatment to specific suppliers without any appropriate considerations, and elimination of business with reasons, nor do we treat any suppliers unfairly. anti-social, corrupt, or criminal elements. 2. Compliance with Laws and Social Norms 6. Maintaining Partnerships with Suppliers When purchasing goods, we comply with all related laws, We respect all companies that we do business with as regulations and rules, and act based on high ethical partners, and we strive to maintain relationships of trust standards. and cooperation by treating them with honesty and as 30 MUFG CSR Report 2014 Economy >> Relations with Business Partners Examples of Major Business Partnerships Date Business Partner MUFG Details Mitsubishi Materials April 2013 MUL Launched joint solar power project. Corporation Investment and Development Concluded memorandum on April 2013 BTMU Agency of Latvia operating alliance. Concluded memorandum on May 2013 Invest Lithuania BTMU operating alliance. Bank Gospodarstwa Concluded memorandum on July 2013 BTMU Krajowego SA operating alliance. PT Sarana Multi Infrastruktur Concluded memorandum on July 2013 BTMU (Persero) operating alliance. Concluded memorandum on July 2013 Enterprise Estonia BTMU operating alliance. August 2013 TKC Corporation BTMU Established new financing system. Concluded memorandum on December 2013 Prime Bank Limited BTMU operating alliance. Concluded capital and operating December 2013 Paygent MUN alliance agreement. Concluded operating alliance January 2014 Misawa Homes MUL agreement on healthcare service. The Ministry of Planning and Concluded memorandum on February 2014 Investment of Lao People's BTMU operating alliance. Democratic Republic Malaysia's Halal Industry Concluded memorandum on February 2014 BTMU Development Corporation operating alliance. February 2014 Seven Bank MUMSS Launched alliance on ATM use. 31 MUFG CSR Report 2014 Environment >> Environmental Policies and Initiatives Environmental Policies and Initiatives We work to reduce negative impacts on the environment through our core business as a financial institution, such as the financing of environmentally friendly business. Basic Policies and Structures 1. Comply with all laws and regulations related to environMUFG MUFG Environmental Action Policy mental protection and other requirements to which Reducing environmental impacts and helping create a group companies subscribe; MUFG views environmental issues with the utmost sustainable society are key concerns for MUFG. To address seriousness, and aims to help realize a sustainable society these concerns in a unified way, in March 2006 we 2. Support business activities that contribute to the in which future generations can live with peace of mind. formulated the MUFG Environmental Statement and Policy. protection and improvement of the environment Based on a shared awareness within MUFG of the critical through the provision of high-quality financial products I. We will dedicate our efforts to create an environmentally nature of global environmental challenges, in June 2008 and services, and aim to reduce environmental risks; conscious society through finance. we also adopted the MUFG Environmental Action Policy, which provides guidelines for concrete actions to deal with 3. Recognize the environmental burden caused by II. We will work to reduce our own environmental impact environmental issues. Our efforts relating to the environconsumption of resources and release of waste from our and also focus on social contribution activities. ment are based on the philosophy and principles outlined own business activities and aim to protect the environin these policies. ment through resource recycling as well as efficient use (For details of the MUFG Environmental Action Policy, see of energy and resources; page 8.) MUFG MUFG Environmental Statement 4. Monitor the effects of our activities on the environment We, the directors and employees of MUFG, recognize that and work towards continuous improvement and protection of the global environment is the responsibility pollution prevention; of all human beings and, as a good corporate citizen, MUFG fulfills its social responsibility by working actively 5. Provide in-house environmental education and support towards the realization of a sustainable environment. and promote environmental protection activities of individual directors and employees both during and Through our business activities, we will support environoutside working hours; mental protection efforts by both industry and individuals that contribute to realizing a sustainable society. 6. Inform the entire group and the general public of our environmental statement and policy and help raise MUFG MUFG Environmental Policy awareness of environmental issues through extensive communication. In accordance with the spirit and philosophy outlined in its Environmental Statement, we, the directors and employees of MUFG will: 32 MUFG CSR Report 2014 Environment >> Environmental Policies and Initiatives MUFG Our Approach to Addressing Biological Diversity (4) Considerations related to purchasing activities Conservation Consider biodiversity protection when purchasing Biological diversity, or biodiversity, is considered to have materials for business operations. three dimensions: ecosystem diversity, species (interspecies) diversity, and intra-species (genetic) diver(5) Information disclosure and communications sity. It is said that biodiversity is facing three crises: reduction and extermination of species due to human Share information about our activities widely with activities (development and overharvesting), deterioration society, contributing to the development of society's in the quality of nature due to insufficient care for woodoverall efforts to conserve biodiversity. lands, and disruption of ecosystems from influences such as invasive species and chemical substances. MUFG ISO 14001 Certification In recognition of the importance of conserving the ISO 14001 is an international standard for management biological diversity that supports the global environment, systems that aim to reduce environmental impacts. This MUFG intends to pursue efforts based on the following standard requires that the environmental impacts of approaches: business activities continually be reduced. (1) Active engagement The following locations in MUFG have acquired ISO 14001 certification: Raise awareness among corporate officers and employees about biological diversity, linking them to voluntary MUTB and company-wide activities. —Marunouchi Head Office, Konan Building (2) Promotion of social contribution activities that make use MUMSS of financial products and services —Mejirodai Building (including Clean Energy Finance Division in Toyosu Front Building) Support biodiversity conservation projects through the provision of integrated financial services. Make use of MUN the expanding business base and other resources of —Head Office Building MUFG to support social contribution activities. MUL (3) Linkages with communities and society —Head Office, affiliate companies (MUL Business Company Ltd. Head Office and MUL Eco-Business Co., Ltd. In order to conserve biodiversity, link and cooperate Tokyo Office) with a wide variety of partners, including international organizations, national government, communities, and non-profit organizations. 33 MUFG CSR Report 2014 Environment >> Environmental Policies and Initiatives BTMU Independent Assurance Report on Equator Independent Assurance Report Principles In December 2005, BTMU adopted the Equator Principles (EP), which encourage financial institutions to conduct prior assessments of the environmental and social impacts of the development projects they fund, to avert and mitigate those impacts, and to monitor performance. We have applied the EP to many resource and infrastructure development projects. Investors, NGOs and other stakeholders have called for improvements in reliability and transparency of the EP. In response to those demands, we have disclosed our internal EP procedures and information on financed projects to an independent third party and have obtained its assurance report for disclosed information (see Note) related to EP implementation in FY 2013. Note: http://www.bk.mufg.jp/global/csr/eco/implementing.html MUFG MUFG Support Framework MUFG Support Framework Clients working to reduce their environmental footprint through corporate activities Clients engaged in environmental businesses For the success of environmental projects or businesses, we make the most of our comprehensive strengths by Clients' manage Designing environmental management strategies  Progression of environmental business  Usage of emission credits Environmentally-conscious asset management  Reduction of greenhouse gas emissions providing customers with across-the-board support, ment tasks relating   Implementation of environment-friendly measures (boosting equipment energy efficiency, etc.) to the environment including financial, business matching, and consulting  Adoption and usage of environmental management systems services. Maximizing MUFG's Comprehensive Strengths The Bank of Mitsubishi UFJ Trust Mitsubishi UFJ Mitsubishi UFJ Lease Mitsubishi UFJ Research Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ and Banking Morgan Stanley Securities & Finance & Consulting ○ Financing support ○ Financing support ○ CDM consulting ○ ESCO proposals ○ Environmental management ○ Implementation of Equator ○ Promoting socially ○ Joint Crediting Mechanism ○ Energy conservation consulting Principles responsible investment (JCM) projects consulting ○ Support for adopting (SRI) ○ Introducing energy environmental management conservation contractors systems ○ Green leasing Group companies ○ Business matching 34 MUFG CSR Report 2014 Environment >> Environmental Policies and Initiatives Reducing Our Environmental Impacts through Core sary to reduce CO2 emissions). Total CO2 Reductions and Economic Effect through Financing Business (Corporate & Investment Banking) (1,000 tons CO 2) (Million yen) Moving forward, BTMU will strive to contribute to the 700 7,000 BTMU Environmental Accounting—Finance to Reduce environmentally friendly business of our clients through 643.9 600 6,000 Environmental Impacts financing. 500 5,000 The environmental concerns of our customers are diversi453.7 fying, from the reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) 400 371.0 375.8 396.9 4,000 351.0 4,625 emissions to energy conservation. MUFG works to 314.7 293.6 300 3,000 indirectly reduce environmental impacts, providing a wide 3,293 2,834 array of services to support the initiatives of such custom2,597 2,630 200 158.7 2,203 2,457 2,000 ers to reduce electricity consumption and GHG emissions 2,055 from operations, covering everything from planning 100 1,1 1 1 1,000 support to assistance in reducing financing costs. 0 0 Before FY FY FY FY FY FY FY FY FY 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 BTMU evaluates corporate customers' environmental management activities, and provides innovative financing Legend Total CO2 Total economic reductions effect of the reduction options with preferential terms. In addition we provide environmental loans that use national governmental subsidy systems, such as the Ministry of the Environment's Ratio by Field of Number of Loans and Total Economic Effect interest subsidy programs for environmental loans and according to CO2 Reduction green financing promotion, and Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry's subsidy program for promotion of Types of Environmental Inside: Number of loans Finance Projects Outside: Economic effect upgrading facilities for energy efficiency in FY 2013. 1.1% Alternative energy (wind power, etc.) The loans apply to a wide range of areas, including the Recycling (construction debris, etc.) 13.7% introduction of solar, wind, and other alternative energy 30.6% 17.0% Proper processing and generation facilities; the installation of air conditioners, disposal of waste (landfills, etc.) lighting and other energy-conservation equipment and 9.2% 48.7% Installation of materials in factory and office buildings; energy-efficient energy-efficient 4.6% construction; industrial waste recycling facilities; and equipment/materials (mechanical equipment, 55.6% appropriate waste treatment facilities for fusion furnaces materials, etc.) 4.3% and final disposal sites, etc. Energy-efficient building construction (shopping 15.3% malls, office buildings, etc.) BTMU made 38 loans through such activities in FY 2013, the largest number to date, resulting in an annual CO2 reduction of 190,000 tons and a cumulative total economic effect of about 4.5 billion yen (the cost neces35 MUFG CSR Report 2014 Environment >> Environmental Policies and Initiatives Changes in CO2 Reductions and Economic Effect through Financing Before Item Units FY 2006 FY 2007 FY 2008 FY 2009 FY 2010 FY 2011 FY 2012 FY 2013 FY 2005 Number of environmental loans, No. of loans 16 10 6 6 7 9 36 25 38 by fiscal year Annual CO2 reductions due to financing, 1,000 t-CO 2 158.7 134.9 21.1 36.3 20.0 4.8 21.2 56.8 190.2 by fiscal year Total CO 2 reductions 1,000 t-CO 2 158.7 293.6 314.7 351.0 371.0 375.8 396.9 453.7 643.9 Total economic effect of the reduction million yen 1 ,1 1 1 2,055 2,203 2,457 2,597 2,630 2,834 3,293 4,625 Reduction unit cost (see Note) yen/t-CO 2 7,000 7,000 7,000 7,000 7,000 7,000 9,600 8,100 7,000 Note: 7,000 yen/ton was used as the highest cost of measures necessary to meet Kyoto Protocol targets until FY 2010. The average cost of Excess Reductions is detailed in the Results of the assessment of trading prices, a Tokyo Metropolitan Government survey on total reduction obligations and the emissions trading structure in the metropolitan area. From FY 2011 onwards, this was used as a measure that could be equated with a reduction cost within Japan. 36 MUFG CSR Report 2014 Environment >> Environmental Policies and Initiatives BTMU Project Finance for Renewable Energy Chitosedairakita, totalling 253 hectares of land (about the Renewable Energy Project Finance MLA 2013 size of 50 baseball stadiums). With a total output of 148 Rank Company Total (US$ million) Market Share (%) Governments around the world are initiating steps to MW (direct current), the solar park is expected to generate 1 Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group 1,30 1 .43 5.86 support the growth of renewable energy sources as enough electricity year-round to power approximately 2 Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group 1, 1 83.26 5.33 environmentally clean alternatives to fossil fuels. Through 38,000 ordinary Japanese households, offsetting roughly 3 Deutsche Bank 1,0 1 1 .25 4. 55 its role as a project finance lender and provider of other 70,000 tons of CO2 emissions per year. Financing for this 4 Credit Agricole Group 830.94 3.7 4 financial services, BTMU is a proactive supporter in the project totaled 39.3 billion yen, with BTMU serving as lead 5 UniCredit 8 28.56 3.7 3 global development of renewable energy for reducing arranger in a group of 14 banks including regional banks. 6 NordLB 734.07 3. 3 1 greenhouse gas emissions and supporting the future of The Eurus Yurikogen Wind Farm, meanwhile, is a project to 7 HSH Nordbank 7 1 4.55 3. 22 industries and modern lifestyles. Renewable energy sectors install seventeen 130-meter-tall turbines on a plateau 8 National Australia Bank 685.2 2 3.09 where BTMU and its group companies, including Union spanning the three districts of Koyoshi, Nishiyurihara, and 9 Rabobank 683.97 3.08 Bank in the United States, have provided debt financing Nishime located five kilometers inland from the Japan Sea. 10 ING Group 682.32 3.0 7 include wind, solar, and biomass power generation. With a total output of 51 MW, the wind farm is expected to Source: Infrastructure Journal League Tables (www.ijonline.com) generate enough electricity to power some 30,000 The 2011 earthquake and tsunami reanimated the debate ordinary households, offsetting roughly 57,000 tons of over Japan's mediumto long-term energy and environCO2 emissions per year. BTMU coordinated financing as mental policy, prompting a rise in renewable energy lead arranger of a group underwriting 11.3 billion yen for installations. Japan's Basic Energy Plan adopted in 2010 the project. sets a target to increase the share of zero-emission sources (nuclear and renewable) in the energy mix by In the geothermal field overseas, BTMU served as more than 50% by 2020. A feed-in tariff scheme for mandated lead arranger of a financing contract totalling renewables (solar, wind, hydro, geothermal, and biomass) US$1.17 billion underwritten by six Japanese and overseas was launched in July 2012, imparting further momentum to banks, the Japan Bank for International Cooperation (JBIC), the spread of renewable energy across all sectors of and the Asian Development Bank for a power generation society. project in the Sarulla district of Sumatra, Indonesia, owned by a consortium of private companies from Japan, the U.S., Based on its substantial track record and expertise and Asia. Project finance for geothermal energy, although acquired through overseas projects, BTMU has been known for having a more challenging risk assessment providing full-fledged financing to energy development process than other resources, is the largest in the world. projects in Japan since around 1998. In FY 2013, the The power plant is scheduled to supply 320.8 MW of company arranged financing for the Eurus Rokkasho Solar electricity to a state-owned power utility for 30 years Park*1 (Aomori Prefecture), the largest photovoltaic starting in 2016, and is expected to offset 1.84 million tons development project in Japan to date, and the Eurus of CO2 per year.*2 Yurikogen Wind Farm*1 (Akita Prefecture), among other projects. *1 Rokkasho Solar Park and Yurikogen Wind Farm are projects developed by renewable energy developer Eurus Energy Group. For the Eurus Rokkasho Solar Park, the plan is to install *2 According to an estimate by JBIC around 510,000 solar panels in two districts, Takahoko and 37 MUFG CSR Report 2014 Environment >> Environmental Policies and Initiatives In addition to geothermal, BTMU's involvement in solar, of corporate customers, and depending on the results, can The interest subsidy program to promote green financing wind, and other projects around the globe resulted in its offer a CSR-Type Environmental Management Support is a program by which a business can receive a subsidy of being ranked as the world's leading provider of project Loan to finance them. Many customers have used these up to 2% on the interest charged, for up to five years, on a finance debt to renewable energy projects in 2013 (see loans since the bank started offering them in April 2011. loan made for capital investments to address climate Note), as well as the world's largest provider of project Also, through this type of financing, it promotes the use of change. Applications must be under the environmental financing overall. BTMU will continue to utilize its arrangeEnvironmental Management Support Loan (with 1% risk assessment financing program. ment experience and know-how in driving renewable interest subsidized) that makes use of Japanese Ministry of energy growth in countries around the world that are the Environment's interest subsidy program for financing In the environmental risk assessment financing program, promoting sustainable development. businesses that encourage environment friendly managethe borrower is required to present to the financial institument. In FY 2013, financing was provided for a wide range tion the results of environmental impact assessments on Note: Results of survey by Infrastructure Journal, a project finance projects and environmentally conscious measures. The of companies that attained environmental ratings for magazine having progressive environmental management and financial institution then verifies the details and status of acceptable initiatives, including Fuji Logistics Co., Ltd. execution. To this end, BTMU and MURC designed a BTMU Supporting Funds-Procurement for Customers (Tokyo) and Kawamura Electric Inc. (Aichi Prefecture). system to carry out such verifications. MUTB Promoting Environmental Efforts BTMU and MUTB provide extensive support—from support The Ministry of the Environment's interest subsidy program ● Energy Conservation Support Loan for planning environmental initiatives to the provision of offers a maximum 1% interest subsidy for up to three years for the interest on loans made to install environmentally BTMU also offers Energy Conservation Support Loan (with financing—for customers who engage in environmental friendly equipment and facilities, provided the borrower 1% interest subsidized) using the Ministry of Economy, businesses and for customer initiatives that aim to reduce has acquired a certain environmental rating, and has made Trade and Industry's subsidy program for promotion of greenhouse gas emissions from business activities. a declaration to reduce CO2 emissions and achieved upgrading facilities for energy efficiency. These are used results. by many customers when they invest to upgrade to To support funds-procurement, all branches are making use energy-efficient facilities and introduce top-runner of BTMU's strengths in the banking sector by actively promoting financing to meet the demand for capital ● Green Project Support Loan equipment, etc. The subsidy program for promotion of upgrading facilities for energy efficiency is an interest expenditures required for facilities to contribute to energy BTMU began offering the Green Project Support Loan subsidy program under METI. Applicants can receive an conservation. In addition, the Environmental Business Office (with 1% interest subsidized) using the Japanese Ministry of interest subsidy for up to ten years of up to 1% of the provides broad support for customers looking to introduce the Environment's interest subsidy program to promote interest used for installation of energy-efficient equipment. energy-efficient technologies in their factory, office buildgreen financing in August 2013, and has introduced the ing, retail store, or other location and for projects that product to many clients. involve solar power or other renewable energy systems. MUTB also offers environmental financing schemes to In FY 2013, BTMU made loans to diverse clients, including support corporate efforts to address climate change. OG Corporation (Osaka Prefecture), Chuetsu Pulp & Paper Co., Ltd. (Toyama Prefecture), and Yamada Oil Co., Ltd. ● Environmental Management Support Loans (Yamaguchi Prefecture). Of the 16 such loans approved by BTMU works with Mitsubishi UFJ Research & Consulting the government throughout Japan, 11 were approved by (MURC) to evaluate environmental management initiatives BTMU. 38 MUFG CSR Report 2014 Environment >> Environmental Policies and Initiatives ● ECO Accreditation Support Loan MUMSS CDM Consulting Activities BTMU is developing products and services that support The Clean Development Mechanism (CDM) is a market smalland medium-sized enterprises working to reduce mechanism defined in Article 12 of the Kyoto Protocol to their impacts on the environment. BTMU offers ECO the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Accreditation Support Loan, which provides 100,000 yen Change (UNFCCC). Under the CDM, developed countries in financing to cover a portion of accreditation costs of with a greenhouse gas (GHG) emission reduction targets customers who have already acquired or are working to provide technical or financial assistance to GHG emission acquire ISO 14001, EcoAction 21, or some other type of mitigation projects to promote sustainable development in environmental certification, such as Eco Stage (see Note). developing counties. Note: Japan-specific environmental management standards The United Nations certifies the resulting GHG emissions reductions and developed countries are allowed to count ●CSR Support Loan / CO2 Reduction Support Loan these reductions towards their own targets. Knowledge of the CDM process and expertise in baseline and monitoring MUTB offers its own original products to support the CSR methodologies development is essential to the successful activities and CO2 emission reduction efforts of corporate implementation of projects under the CDM scheme. customers working actively for CSR and reducing CO2 MUMSS became engaged early on in providing CDM emissions in order to fight global warming. consulting services, and has been involved in over 100 projects so far, including a biomass power project in CSR Support Loan Kandal Province in Cambodia that utilizes waste rice husks Loan with preferential interest rate for customers who have as fuel. As of May 2014, 76 of these projects have been committed to targets for improving their CSR performance registered by the United Nations. in specific areas (three to five targets). CO2 Reduction Support Loan Loan with preferential interest rate for customers who have committed to reducing their CO2 emissions. Both the CSR Support Loans and CO2 Reduction Support Loans require a prior declaration of targets, but prior rating work is not required. Even if the targets are not achieved, it is still possible to make a social or environmental contribution, such as by donating to an external organization the amount of interest subsidized by the government, and it is also possible for customers to publicize their CSR and environmental initiatives. 39 MUFG CSR Report 2014 Environment >> Environmental Policies and Initiatives MUMSS Initiatives under the Joint Crediting Mechanism Since the rural electrification rate is less than 20%, people (JCM) in these areas rely heavily on kerosene*3 lamps, which represent a fire hazard, emit harmful black smoke and In November 2013, the 19th Conference of the Parties weigh heavily on family finances due to rising fuel costs. (COP 19) to the United Nations Framework Convention on The introduction of solar lanterns eliminates such Climate Change was held in Warsaw, Poland, where it was problems in addition to cutting CO2 emissions. agreed to look into the introduction of voluntary greenhouse gas emissions reduction targets under the new *1 A bilateral credit scheme proposed by the Japanese government to the international community as a new mechanism to complement CDM. international climate change mitigation framework that will Benefits of JCM include mutual implementation of projects by countries start in 2020 with the participation of all countries. Various who sign a bilateral agreement, a broader range of applicable projects initiatives are currently under discussion in the lead-up to than CDM, short processing times, and the availability of Japanese government subsidies. the creation of a new international framework. Meanwhile, the Japanese government has proposed the Joint Credit*2 Rechargeable LED lanterns powered by solar energy. They can also be ing Mechanism (JCM)*1 as a new mechanism. As of May used as a power source for mobile phones. Replacing 100,000 2014, 11 countries, including Mongolia, Kenya, Vietnam, kerosene lamps with solar lanterns can reduce approximately 15,000 tons of CO 2 per year. and Indonesia, have signed intergovernmental memoranda with Japan on the JCM. *3 A constituent of petroleum, kerosene is the primary ingredient in fuels used across a range of applications, such as lamps, heaters, and jet Since FY 2010, the Japanese government has been inviting engines. new proposals for JCM projects under its Feasibility Studies Program for Establishing Joint Crediting Mechanisms. MUMSS has been an active participant in this process and has been involved in more than 50 projects so far. The JCM can support activities in various sectors, including streamlining urban transport and energy-saving buildings and appliances, technologies in which Japan has advantages. Other activities include making use of know-how acquired through experience gained with the CDM and MUFG financial functions to promote JCM initiatives and advance climate change solutions on a global scale, in ways that will benefit both Japan and the developing world. ● Solar lanterns in Kenya One JCM project for which MUMSS is providing consulting services is a project to distribute solar lanterns*2 to non-electrified communities in Kenya. 40 MUFG CSR Report 2014 Environment >> Environmental Policies and Initiatives BTMU Supporting Environmental Risk Management Equator Principles as of July 2014. Disclosure of EP Projects and Their Risk Categories In compliance with EP II (2006 version) and EP III, BTMU has disclosed through the Equator Principles the number and risk categories of projects reviewed in FY 2013 that are *2 http://www.bk.mufg.jp/global/csr/eco/implementing.html subject to the Equator Principles. These projects are those that reached Financial institutions are now expected to undertake their financial close in the period from April 1, 2013, to March 31, 2014. efforts to prevent potential environmental degradation, human rights violations, and other issues attributed to Project Finance*3 The table below shows the number of projects that were reviewed loans to development projects in emerging countries and after April 1, 2013, and reached financial close between April 1, 2013, to other domestic and international business activities. and March 31, 2014. In 2005, BTMU adopted the Equator Principles (EP)*1 as a Projects subject to EP (EP II + EP III) framework to ensure that environmental considerations By Category A B C are made when financing large-scale development Total 1 22 3 projects. We advise our clients to take due care in complyBy Region A B C ing with international standards, and also monitor environAmericas 9 mental impacts even after financing support has been Asia and Oceania 8*4 2 rendered. Europe, Middle East, Africa 1 6*4 1 By Sector A B C While EP originally applied only to project finance, its third Infrastructure 5 1 version effective June 4, 2013 (EP III) now includes large Mining corporate loans within its scope, thus strengthening Oil and gas 1 4 environmental and social considerations. All financial Petrochemicals institutions that have adopted EP currently apply EP III. Power 13 2 To show that its EP implementation is reliable, BTMU has been disclosing its internal EP procedures and information Category A: Projects with potential significant adverse environon financed projects to an independent third party and, mental and social risks and ⁄or impacts that are diverse, irreversible or unprecedented. since FY 2012, has been obtaining an Independent Assurance Report to demonstrate that all of the disclosed Category B: Projects with potential limited adverse environmental and social risks and ⁄or impacts that are few in number, generally information related to EP implementation*2 is compliant site-specific, largely reversible and readily addressed through with the guidelines. mitigation measures. Category C: Projects with minimal or no adverse environmental *1 The Equator Principles is a framework independently established by the and social risks and ⁄or impacts. financial industry to assess and manage social and environmental impacts and risks associated with financing large-scale development projects, in order to avert and mitigate the impacts of such develop*3 For information on project-related corporate loans and project ment on the surrounding environment and communities. EP requires finance advisory services, visit our website at: assessment of the environmental and social risks of projects from the http://www.bk.mufg.jp/global/csr/eco/implementing.html. planning stage, implementation of effective measures, and management of such measures even after financing is complete. BTMU and 79 *4 The sum of the numbers reported for each region does not match other financial institutions in 34 countries worldwide have adopted the with the total as one of the projects is located over two regions. 41 MUFG CSR Report 2014 Environment >> Environmental Policies and Initiatives MUL Various Services ● Financial Services for Environmental Businesses ● Green Leases and Tradable Green Certification Services MUL is engaged in a variety of other initiatives and MUL provides total support for achieving business plans services to address climate change. by offering finance services to customers engaged in A Green Lease is a leasing service that covers a portion of energy conservation and renewable energy. Besides the electricity consumed by leased equipment, by using ● ESCO Services providing corporate financing, we also offer diverse green electricity generated using natural energy sources financial services that match projects and operations, such that have a low environmental impact, such as wind or Energy service company (ESCO) projects can assist large as by using project financing methods that rely on profitsolar power. Customers can easily use green power by consumers of energy—including commercial facilities ability and stability. applying Tradable Green Certificates to their lease such as buildings, factories, and hotels and public facilities contracts, thereby certifying the environmental value of such as street light systems—to achieve greater energy ● Renewable Energy Initiatives the renewable energy used. efficiency. An ESCO project provides a package of services (which can include energy audits, proposals for MUL has been actively promoting renewable energy In July 2010, MUL was authorized as an issuer of Tradable project planning and facilities upgrades, and validation of projects. One example is a joint solar power project using Green Certificates, and launched a Tradable Green results after construction) that achieve reductions in land owned by a corporate customer in Japan, which Certification service, by which MUL purchases from a environmental impacts while also reducing costs. launched its operation in December 2013. All electricity customer the environmental value of the renewable generated will be sold to the local power utility. MUL is also energy generated from the use of photovoltaic equipment Because all of the costs associated with an ESCO project, contributing to solutions for global environmental protecleased to the customer. MUL is using these acquired including facility upgrades, can be recouped through tion and energy issues through other renewable energy Tradable Green Certificates for green leases, which future reductions in energy costs resulting from improved initiatives, such as a solar power project using the rooftops connect customers who want to invest in the environment energy efficiency, ESCO projects require essentially no of rental apartments. with customers who want to reduce CO2 emissions by investment of new funds. After the initial investment has using green power. been recovered, the reduced energy costs remaining after ● Carbon Offset Services subtracting maintenance and management costs are ● Used Equipment Trading Business counted as customer profit. Another positive feature is that MUL offers the Offset Partner Service (a trust service for even if the ESCO project produces a smaller reduction in carbon offsets) to support from procurement to manageTaking advantage of being a leasing company that deals energy consumption than originally expected, no ment of carbon offsets. This service supports customers' with physical assets in the course of daily business, MUL is additional burden is placed on the customer. Also, being environmental initiatives in a variety of scenarios, such as aware of its various roles and responsibilities relating to within a comprehensive ESCO framework facilitates the development of products that come with carbon emission topics such as waste reduction, and has been trading in use of subsidies in many countries, thereby reducing total credits and provision of carbon offsets for exhibition machine tools, medical, information and other used investment costs. events and manufacturing plants. Our Carbon Natural equipment. For example, information-processing equipLease (lease bundled with carbon emission credits) offsets ment is reused and recycled through MUL Eco-Business MUL was one of the first companies in Japan to provide the CO2 that will be emitted in connection with the lease Co., Ltd., which has a complete in-house system for secure services for ESCO projects and is recognized for its using carbon emission credits. Customers can, in effect, data destruction, and approaches zero emissions (see top-class performance in the field, having been involved in be engaged in environmental activities without having to Note) in its operations. 430 ESCO projects so far (as of March 31, 2014). In the do the cumbersome paperwork or accounting. process, MUL has become a one-stop provider of coordiNote: Zero emissions refers to systems in society that employ reuse and various other means to result in almost no net emissions or waste. nated energy-efficiency solutions. 42 MUFG CSR Report 2014 Environment >> Environmental Policies and Initiatives Reducing Our Environmental Impacts through Core (OISCA Japan) and organizations such as the Global Environmental on demand using copiers. This approach reduces the use Forum of Japan. Business (Consumer Business / Private Banking) of paper that would otherwise have been wasted when branches had to dispose of surplus pamphlets after MUFG Paperless Initiatives BTMU Supporting Purchases of Eco-Friendly Homes revisions were made. MUTB To reduce CO2 emissions by going paperless, BTMU BTMU and MUTB support the greater use of renewable MUMSS is working to expand a service that allows customintroduced Eco Bank Book and Eco Notification in May energy by offering a reduction in interest from posted rates ers to view electronically by Internet (in PDF format) about 2012, providing account information to customers that apply to each type of mortgage for a customer who 60 types of documents the company sends out, including anywhere and at any time through the Internet. The Eco builds or purchases an eco-friendly home meeting BTMU transaction statements and account statements. Since Bank Book provides access via personal computers and or MUTB criteria by having a photovoltaic system installed, 2012, we have repeated our e-post sign-up campaign smartphones to up to 25 months of deposits and and so on. every half year. For every account signed up for this withdrawals, and also allows customers to save notes service during the campaigns, we donate 100 yen to the Supporting Eco-Friendly Home Improvement about transactions to assist them in managing their BTMU MUFG NFUAJ* 2 East Japan Earthquake Recovery and household budgets. Because paper-based passbooks are Scholarship Fund. The campaign was done for the fifth Responding to a growing awareness about climate change not issued, customers do not need to record transactions, time in the first half of 2014. and other environmental issues, BTMU offers incentives and there is no need to worry about losing the passbook. such as preferential interest rates on home improvement Eco Notification is a service through which status updates MUN is working to expand its service by enabling customloans for eco-friendly improvements. are provided by the bank online instead of by mail, includers to view their account statements online instead of ing notifications of mutual fund transactions and the relying on printed statements sent by mail. By reducing the We also offer financing at interest rates below posted rates maturation of time deposits. When a new notification is amount of paper used for statements, we can reduce CO2 for projects such as barrier free renovations to make posted, an e-mail is sent to the registered e-mail address, emissions by about 500 grams per item mailed. Also, a homes more people-friendly. allowing the customer to efficiently manage the account portion of costs saved by customers signing up to check and eliminating any worries about unrecorded transactheir MUFG CARD statements online will be donated to MUN Service via Credit Cards tions. Our efforts to go paperless are progressing steadily, organizations engaged in environmental protection. with about 700,000 customers applying for Eco Bank MUN offers a service in which customers can contribute to Book and about 350,000 for Eco Notification, by the end *2 National Federation of UNESCO Associations in Japan the environment by using points accumulated with credit July 2014. cards (MUFG CARD, DC, or NICOS). The MUN points program offers a Charity option* 1 giving customers the Through Internet banking service, MUTB offers electronic option of making a five-yen donation per point—to delivery that allows customers to view various documents research for environmental protection and conservation relating to investment trust transactions that would through tree planting and forest management, or to a otherwise be sent by mail. One benefit of this method is variety of volunteer organizations engaged in capacity the reduction of environmental impact, by eliminating the building. need to print and mail the documents. They are received and saved by personal computer. MUTB stores electronic *1 This program enables users to donate money to an environmental versions of some paper pamphlets, such as prospectuses project or organization of their choice, including projects conducted by a public interest incorporated foundation, the Organization for for mutual funds being sold in branches, and has Industrial, Spiritual and Cultural Advancement–International, Japan introduced the capability to print and bind such booklets 43 MUFG CSR Report 2014 Environment >> Environmental Policies and Initiatives Reducing Our Environmental Impacts through Core Japan Network, which promotes PRI and responsible investments in The Sustainability Assessment Process Japan. Business (Asset Management) Financial data-based analysis ESG assessment-based analysis MUTB The Wild Bird and Greenery Trust Fund for MUTB Initiatives for ESG Investment Environmental Conservation Selection of candidates for investment based on long-term perspective Global pension funds and other investors pursuing stable MUTB created the Wild Bird and Greenery Trust fund as a investment returns consider the business outlook and financial vehicle to support environmental conservation Stable investment performance over the mediumto long-term financial data when evaluating companies, but are also activities; income from this trust fund is donated to a increasingly looking at a company's extra-financial public interest incorporated foundation, the Wild Bird information such as environmental and social responsibilSociety of Japan. When payments are made to this society, ity and corporate governance (ESG). A consensus is MUTB provides a matching contribution from its own starting to take hold that investing in companies with clear funds (a minimum of 500,000 yen, and maximum of 2.5 social responsibility policies and programs and strong million yen, semi-annually), further meeting our customers' corporate governance systems can increase returns over desire to protect the environment. As of March 2014, the the mediumto long-term and reduce risk. Assessment trust fund's contract balance was 253.23 million yen. In FY methods that place higher value on corporate dialogue for . 2013, donations from the trust fund and matching donaverifying this extra-financial information are also becoming tions from MUTB totaled 1.12 million yen. more widespread. Bird Sanctuary Created for Red-Crowned Crane Drawing on its experience as a pioneer in ESG-based Habitat corporate assessment and asset management, MUTB is working on creating and managing funds with selected In March 2008, MUTB contributed funds to the Wild Bird equities that are expected to experience sustained growth. Society of Japan to acquire land to permanently protect These funds have grown in size as more investors have from development the nesting grounds of the come to recognize their performance and management red-crowned crane (also known as the Japanese crane) in strategies. Through seminars and other events, we also Japan. The society purchased a 34.9-hectare parcel of educate participants about methods of selecting compawetlands in Nemuro City, Hokkaido, and established the nies for investment based on ESG principles, and we work Wild Bird Society of Japan-MUTB Rakuyo Bird Sanctuary. to promote broader use of corporate assessment methods that make use of extra-financial information. We also became a signatory to the international Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI) (see Note) to propagate PRI-based investing activities in Japan. Note: PRI were announced by the then-Secretary General of the United Nations, Kofi Annan, in 2006. The PRI are intended to address decision-making issues related to ESG for investments, to improve the long-term results of investments, and to reduce risk. MUTB has endorsed these Principles and also actively participates in the PRI 44 MUFG CSR Report 2014 Environment >> Environmental Policies and Initiatives Reducing Our Environmental Impacts of Business FY 2013 MUFG Business Activity Mass Balance ― Energy/Water Inputs and CO2/Waste Water Emissions for Offices in Japan Activities Resource Input Emissions MUFG Current Environmental Impact of Business Activities MUFG total Units City gas 4,7 1 5 1,000 Nm 3 MUFG calculates the amount of energy and water LPG 1 t resources input, and the amount of CO2 and waste water Scope 1 Kerosene 88 kl MUFG total Units emitted through business activities. Light oil 1 kl (Adjusted emission factors) 259,590 t-CO 2 Total □ Scope of Reporting: Includes five companies: MUFG, Heavy oil 887 kl (Reference: Unadjusted emissions 299,228 t-CO 2 Business Activities emission factors) BTMU, MUTB, MUMSS, and MUN. Data for MUMSS MUFG total Units Energy usage CO 2 emissions includes data for MUSHD, with the exception of Electricity 47 1 ,88 1 1,000 kWh Breakdown by scope MUFG total Units Scope 2 overseas travel (international routes) and company Steam, hot water 35,691 GJ Scope 1 1 3, 1 39 t-CO 2 automobiles (gasoline). Cold water 25,643 GJ (Adjusted emission factors) 232, 574 t-CO 2 Scope 2 (Reference: Unadjusted MUFG total Units 272,2 1 2 t-CO 2 □ CO2 Emissions Calculation Method: (1) City gas, LPG, emission factors) MUFG kerosene, light oil, heavy oil, steam/hot water, cold Company automobiles 3,1 74 kl Scope 3 13,8 7 7 t-CO 2 (gasoline) water, and gasoline are calculated according to factors based on the Act on Promotion of Global Warming Scope 3 Overseas travel 78,465 1,000 km Countermeasures; (2) Electricity is calculated according (total distance on international routes) to the most recent values in FY 2012 listed in the Environmental Action Plan by the Japanese Electric Utility Industry (The Federation of Electric Power MUFG total Units MUFG total Units Companies of Japan, September 2013); (3) Overseas Water usage Tap water 1 ,995 1,000 m 3 Water output Waste water 1,702 1,000 m 3 travel (international routes) is calculated according to a factor specified in the General Guidelines on Supply Units: 1,000 Nm 3 = thousand normal cubic meters (unit of volume in a standard state (0°C, 1 Atm.)); 1,000 m 3 = thousand cubic meters; kl = kiloliter; 1,000 kWh = thousand kilowatt-hours; GJ = gigajoule; t = ton; t-CO 2 = ton of CO 2 (CO 2 emissions expressed in weight (ton)) Chain GHG Emission Accounting (Ministry of the Environment / Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry). □ CO2 Emissions associated with the Use of Electricity: Adjusted emission factors are factors calculated by power utilities, reflecting an offset by an emissionreduction credit based on the Kyoto Protocol. Those not reflecting an offset are unadjusted emission factors. This report lists the calculation results according to both factors. 45 MUFG CSR Report 2014 Environment >> Environmental Policies and Initiatives MUFG Reducing Environmental Impacts of Business CO2 Emissions of Four Group Companies ( 1,000 tons CO 2 ) Activities 320 300 298,000 tons (emissions in the baseline year for reduction efforts) To reduce greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions and mitigate 280 298 global warming, MUFG actively seeks reductions in CO2 260 274 CO 2 emissions before applyemissions from business activities and employee travel. ing offsets using CDM credit Equivalent to a 37% reduction in CO 2 240 248 emissions MUFG has set forth the goal of reducing CO2 emissions 220 233 † In the case of using emission factors before the earthquake disaster in 2011 in calculating from four core group companies (MUFG, BTMU, MUTB, 200 204 CO 2 emissions associated with electricity use 202 and MUMSS) excluding MUN by at least 25% by FY 2012, 191 196 180 187 using FY 2000 as the baseline year, and conducted 160 † The graph shows the totals for four group companies that have various reduction activities. As a result, we greatly established reduction targets using FY 2000 CO 2 emissions as a baseline. Accordingly, the figures on the graph differ from the table exceeded this goal, achieving a reduction of 34% in FY 0 FY 2000 FY 2008 FY 2009 FY 2010 FY 2011 FY 2012 FY 2013 below. 2012 in comparison to the baseline year. MUFG Environmental Impact Data and GHG Emissions MUFG has been continuing efforts to reduce CO2 Item (GRI Indicators) Units FY 2010 FY 2011 FY 2012 FY 2013 emissions, but FY 2013 saw an increase in emissions over Total floor space 1,000 m 2 2,348 2,319 2,327 2,261 City gas 1,000 Nm 3 4,393 5,429 4,680 4,7 15 the previous year. This was partly due to increased power Direct energy consumption (EN3) Heavy oil kl 1,7 14 1,4 1 7 1,359 887 consumption as a result of a particularly hot summer. Kerosene kl 134 1 37 140 88 Another impact came from the emission factors for Electricity 1,000 kWh 531,76 1 457,522 455,94 7 47 1,881 calculating CO2 emissions from electricity supplied by Indirect energy consumption (EN4) Steam, hot water GJ 38,2 1 2 36,2 1 1 32,989 35,69 1 power utilities, which increased significantly as a result of a Cold water GJ 35,372 26,374 23,624 25,643 greater proportion of electricity being generated by Energy use from employee travel Overseas travel (international routes) 1,000 km 56,982 67,185 78,148 78,465 and transportation (EN30) thermal power plants due to the suspension of operation Company automobiles (gasoline) kl 3,6 15 3,537 3,27 7 3,1 74 Tap water 1,000 m 3 2,225 2,036 1,84 1 1,995 of nuclear power plants in Japan. Water usage efficiency (EN8) Waste water 1,000 m 3 1,633 1,552 1,553 1,702 Scope １ Direct CO 2 emissions (EN15) t-CO 2 14,802 16,3 1 7 14,492 13,139 The graph titled CO2 Emissions of Four Group CompaCarbon dioxide emissions Indirect CO 2 emissions (EN16) t-CO 2 180,648 166,933 212,143 232,574 nies on the top right shows reference emissions for FY (adjusted emission factors) Scope 2 2012 with CO2 emissions before application of CDM Indirect CO 2 emissions (EN16) t-CO 2 210, 19 1 176,858 217,688 272,212 credits. (unadjusted emission factors) Scope ３ Other indirect CO 2 emissions (EN17) t-CO 2 15,875 16,74 7 17,320 13,877 The CO2 emissions resulting from power use in FY 2013 Offsets using CDM credits t-CO 2 − − 37,026 − Adjusted emission factors t-CO 2 2 1 1,324 199,997 206,928 259,590 are also shown calculated using the emission factor before Total Unadjusted emission factors t-CO 2 240,868 209,922 2 1 2,473 299,228 the earthquake disaster in 2011 for reference. In this case, Basic unit of CO 2 emission (CO 2 Adjusted emission factors t-CO2/1,000m2 90 86 89 1 15 FY 2013 CO2 emissions correspond to 187,000 tons, emissions per unit of floor space) Unadjusted emission factors t-CO2/1,000m2 103 91 91 132 equivalent to a 37% decrease from the baseline year. Basic unit of electricity use (Electricity use emission per unit of floor space) kWh/m 2 226 197 196 209 ●The scope of reporting and calculation method are based on the approach detailed in MUFG Business Activity Mass Balance on the previous page. ●Numbers represented with EN are performance indices according to the G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. ●In FY 2013, the total area of floor space occupied was 1,697,000 m 2 for MUFG and BTMU combined; 350,000 m 2 for MUTB; 117,000 m 2 for MUMSS; and 96,000 m 2 for MUN. 46 MUFG CSR Report 2014 Environment >> Environmental Policies and Initiatives MUFG Environmental Accounting Information for Our □ Period covered: April 1, 2013 through March 31, 2014 Trends of Costs for Environmental Measures Offices □ Companies included: Core group companies (MUFG, (million yen) (million kWh) 9,000 540 MUFG introduced and began announcing the results of BTMU, MUTB, MUMSS and MUN). environmental accounting from FY 2009, as part of 7,721 520 environmentally conscious business activities, for the □ Accounting method: Based on Environmental Account7,000 532 7,455 500 quantitative management of environmental efforts. Table 1 ing Guidelines 2005, published by Japanese Ministry of 5,000 5,857 5,552 480 (Costs for Environmental Measures) presents the aggrethe Environment. 4,119 460 gate results for the costs for group environmental 3,000 472 measures. MUFG measures and reports environmental ● As for the method of calculation, the depreciation 2,943 2,382 440 1,000 1,916 458 impact data and greenhouse gas emissions quantities for expenses on investment amounts are included in 456 420 all core group companies. Table 2 (Benefits of Environmenexpenses using the straight line method for a service life 0 400 tal Measures) presents data regarding the benefits of these of five years (with no residual value). The service life is FY 2010 FY 2011 FY 2012 FY 2013 environmental measures, including the consumption of set at five years as the period during which repairs and Costs for environmental measures fuel, electricity and heat, and other factors, as well as CO2 improvements are required following the introduction of (investments): million yen emissions. environmental equipment. Legend Costs for environmental measures (expense): million yen Benefits of environmental measures Investments in cost for environmental measures in FY 2013 ● As for standards for the posting of compound costs, (electricity consumption): million kWh decreased by 5.339 billion yen compared to the previous items related to environmental preservation are calcuyear, to 2.382 billion yen, while the expense decreased by lated following Environmental Accounting Guidelines 305 million yen, to 5.552 billion yen. 2005, published by Japanese Ministry of the Environment. The largest share of investments in cost for environmental measures was for global environmental protection, mainly for installation of energy-efficient air conditioning and lighting equipment. Electricity consumption, our main environmental performance indicator for investments into global environmental protection measures, was increased from the previous year to 471.88 million kWh in FY 2013 as a result of greater use of air conditioning due to the hot summer. We aim to further enhance the group's environmental measures and build upon the benefits, as demonstrated through this environmental accounting, of the environmental actions taken by the group's core companies. 47 MUFG CSR Report 2014 Environment >> Environmental Policies and Initiatives Table 1. Costs for Environmental Measures (Million yen) Cost for environmental FY 2010 FY 2011 FY 2012 FY 2013 measures compared Category Details to FY 2012 Investment Expense Investment Expense Investment Expense Investment Expense Investment Expense 1. Operation area costs 2,935 1,488 7,448 3,651 7,695 5,312 2,332 5,056 -5,363 -256 1-1. Costs for pollution prevention Costs for asbestos surveys, removal, measurement and inspection, etc. 321 83 626 235 -391 1-2. Costs for addressing global Investments: Installation of energy-efficient lighting and air conditioning Details 2,935 1,102 7,448 3,217 7,695 4,359 2,332 4,442 -5,363 83 environmental issues equipment, etc. Costs: Depreciation for energy-efficient equipment, etc. 1-3. Costs for reuse of resources Disposal of general and industrial waste 65 351 327 379 52 2. Upstream/downstream costs Development/operation of environmental management systems, 8 320 7 279 26 389 50 345 24 -44 3. Costs for management activities environmental information disclosure, etc. 4. Costs for research and development 5. Social activity costs Charitable contributions related to environmental conservation, etc. 108 189 156 151 -5 6. Environmental remediation costs Total 2,943 1,916 7,455 4,119 7,721 5,857 2,382 5,552 -5,339 -305 Table 2. Benefits of Environmental Measures Environmental benefits Category Environmental performance indicators Units FY 2010 FY 2011 FY 2012 FY 2013 compared to FY 2012 City gas 1,000 Nm 3 4,393 5,429 4,680 4,715 -35 Heavy oil kl 1,714 1,417 1,359 887 472 Kerosene kl 124 137 140 88 52 Environmental benefits related to resource Electricity 1,000 kWh 531,761 457,522 455,947 471,881 -15,934 inputs for business Steam, hot water GJ 34,122 32,972 29,958 35,691 -5,733 activities Cold water GJ 35,372 26,374 23,624 25,643 -2,019 Tap water 1,000 m 3 2,225 2,036 1,841 1,995 -154 Environmental benefits related to GHG emission according to unadjusted emission factors (see Note) t-CO 2 240,868 209,922 212,473 299,228 -86,755 goods and services produced through business activities Waste water 1,000 m 3 1,633 1,552 1,553 1,702 -149 Energy consumption associated with travel for executives 1,000 km 56,982 67,185 78,148 78,465 -317 Other environmental and employees: air travel (international routes) benefits Energy consumption associated with road travel for kl 3,615 3,537 3,277 3,174 103 executives and employees: company automobiles (gasoline) Note: Calculated using unadjusted emission factors that do not reflect emission reduction credits based on the Kyoto Protocol or other offsets. One of the emission factors used to calculate indirect CO 2 emissions according to electricity use published by power utilities. 48 MUFG CSR Report 2014 Environment >> Environmental Policies and Initiatives MUFG Reducing CO2 Emissions meters. This leads to improved efficiency for HVAC and BTMU Reducing Waste lighting systems, and allows employees to share a smaller MUTB Each group company is implementing plans for phasing in number of facsimile machines, copiers, and other types of MUMSS more environmentally friendly equipment at their offices office equipment. Each group company is working actively to separate and and sales outlets. Efforts are also being made to reduce recycle waste. CO2 emissions, including turning off lights when not MUMSS Carbon Offsets needed, stopping some elevators, promoting casual BTMU's Head Offices in Tokyo, Nagoya, and Osaka (cooler) attire in the summer time, changing the settings of MUMSS receives a portion of its compensation for CDM separate waste into 13 categories and recycle more than air conditioning and heating, and having staff turn off their consulting services in the form of emission credits, which 95% of their waste. computers and monitors when they leave their desks. are applied as offsets. To actively promote recycling, MUMSS sorts waste into six BTMU is making an effort to utilize renewable energy, and MUMSS Recycling Waste Cooking Oil categories at its Mejirodai Building, and MUTB separates has installed solar and wind power generation equipment waste into 19 categories at its Head Office and 17 categofor its Nagoya Building. In addition, BTMU is working to MUMSS recycles cooking oil used in the cafeteria of its ries at its Konan Building. reduce electricity consumption by installing upgraded Mejirodai Building. heating systems and automatic lighting controls at each of BTMU Leading the Banking Industry in Adopting its buildings. The waste oil is collected by a waste processing company MUTB Electric Vehicles and converted into biodiesel fuel, an alternative to MUTB is reducing energy consumption by installing petroleum-derived diesel for use in diesel engines. In FY 2009, BTMU and MUTB became the first companies energy-efficient lighting equipment and updating HVAC Biodiesel fuel is a clean energy source, largely free of the in Japanese banking industry to introduce electric vehicles (heating, ventilation, and air-conditioning) equipment and air pollutants (sulfur oxides) that cause childhood asthma, for official business use. Currently 97 electric vehicles are transformer equipment at its main buildings and branches. atopic dermatitis, and other health problems. In the used at their main offices and branches. These MUTB is also saving energy by increasing monitoring of roughly two years since the cafeteria's opening, 1.3 tons of eco-friendly vehicles (i-MiEVs) produce no CO2 emissions energy consumption at some of its main buildings. used cooking oil have been collected and completely when operated, and have total emissions (including CO2 recycled. emissions from the electricity used for charging) that are With the Mejirodai Building having been designed and only about 30% of the level of emissions from gasoline constructed to facilitate a high level of energy conservaMUFG Reducing Paper Consumption vehicles in the same class. tion, MUMSS is putting efficient energy management into practice here, with a focus on the Tokyo Metropolitan Each group company works to reduce the amount of copy Government's GHG reduction ordinance. Independent of paper used in its offices, and also to recycle used paper. government initiatives, all employees are making an ongoing effort to save electricity, such as appropriate To the extent possible, each group company is also control of air conditioning temperatures, reduced lighting, switching to environmentally responsible paper, such as and turning off office equipment when staff leave the that certified by the Forest Stewardship Council (FSC), and office. vegetable-based or other environmentally friendly inks for brochures and printed materials distributed at branches. MUN conserves energy by utilizing a universal plan office layout having no pillars or dividers in a space of 140 square 49 MUFG CSR Report 2014 Environment >> Environmental Policies and Initiatives MUFG Eco-Friendly Promotional Goods stream. In the 2013 ENERGY STAR*1 National Building Competition: Battle of the Buildings, a contest that Each group company also gives consideration to the represents excellence in energy performance, UB was environment in connection to the promotional items that highly recognized: Five of its branches have been recogare presented to customers, by using PVC-free materials, nized by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and other measures. for exceeding the Agency's 20% energy savings goal—as measured by the energy use in 2013 compared to 2012, MUMSS provides Blue Dolphin's Natural Soap (a 100% and 26 branches earned ENERGY STAR certification*2 from natural, additive-free soap) as an environmentally friendly the EPA. promotional item. This soap is made by a social services organization that supports the independence of disabled *1 ENERGY STAR was introduced by EPA as a voluntary, market-based partnership to encourage consumers to select energy-saving products. persons, and is sold by a non-profit organization that Products that have earned the ENERGY STAR designation prevent GHG engages in activities to promote an appreciation of the emissions by meeting strict energy-efficient specifications set by the global environment based on the wish to protect the government. oceans that are home to dolphins and whales. *2 The ENERGY STAR certification is a label the national government uses to signify superior energy efficiency, and other forms of environmental UB Union Bank's Efforts to Reduce Environmental responsibility of buildings and products. Impacts BTMU Efforts to Reduce Environmental Impacts in Environmental conservation and sustainability are incredEurope ibly relevant and important values to Union Bank (UB)—and central to its overall commitment to corporate social At BTMU's London Office, a team of Green CSR Champiresponsibility (CSR). In 2013, UB achieved substantial ons were appointed. The team is made up of BTMU staff results: the bank provided US$5.6 billion in financing for a who are passionate about environmental issues. Regular wide variety of sustainable businesses, including leading communications between the Facilities department, the innovators in alternative energy, greener waste manageGreen Champions team and the wider staff population ment, and sustainable agricultural businesses. Furtherhave meant that environmental events and initiatives have more, UB's employees volunteer generously on behalf of a been a real success. The London Office also built on its large number of environmental causes, which the bank relationship working alongside the City of London Corpoalso supports financially through the UB Foundation. ration as an active member of their Clean City Awards scheme. The scheme facilitates a network of businesses in UB has more than 11,000 employees and operates 420 the City to share best practice around environmental and branches throughout California and in six other states. UB sustainability issues. As a result BTMU's London Office works hard to develop innovative ways to minimize its received a Gold Award from the Clean City Awards impact in terms of paper use, energy consumption, Scheme in recognition of our recycling performance and greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, etc.: The bank recently various initiatives to reduce, reuse and recycle waste. introduced a paperless invoicing program that prevented several metric tons of paper from entering the waste 50 MUFG CSR Report 2014 Environment >> Environmental Policies and Initiatives BTMU Environmental Targets and Results MUTB Environmental Targets and Results MUMSS Environmental Targets and Results Reducing and Greening Paper Consumption Reduction of Copy-Paper Use Reduction of Copy Paper Use Mediumto long-term FY 2013 target at Manage the volume of copy paper used at Construct a management system to reduce Reduce use of copy paper. plan Head Office Building the Head Office Building. FY 2013 targets the purchase quantity of office paper at Head Office Building. Keep copy paper use at the same level as in Copy paper purchases for Head Office FY 2013 targets previous fiscal year. Building: Approx. 310 tons (5.7% increase Constructed the foundations of a system to compared to previous fiscal year). reduce the purchase quantity of office paper Results Results The same level of copy paper was used as in † Continued efforts resulted in 32% reduction FY 2013 results at Head Office Building by tracking trends, previous fiscal year. compared to FY 2006, the year before calculating the effects of reduction acquiring ISO 14001 certification. measures, and establishing new target Waste Reduction criteria. Waste Recycling Mediumto long-term Firmly establish zero emissions efforts Reduction of Electricity Use plan (a recycling rate of at least 95%). FY 2013 target at Implement waste sorting programs at Head Head Office Building Office Building. Decide measures to reduce electricity use at Achieve a recycling rate of at least 95% for Mejirodai Building, with a focus on the Tokyo FY 2013 targets waste. Regularly checked compliance with FY 2013 targets Metropolitan Government's GHG reduction Results waste-sorting rules at each Head Office ordinance, and establish a target reduction Achieved recycling rates of about 95% division and office. rate for the future. through careful sorting of waste: Results Head Office Marunouchi Building: 94% Reduction of Energy Use Limit electricity use at the Mejirodai Building Head Office Nagoya Building: 98% in FY 2014 and onwards to the same level as Head Office Osaka Building: 96% FY 2013 target at Implement program to reduce energy use at the previous year. Head Office Building Head Office Building. FY 2013 results Continue electricity-saving efforts, such as Prevention of Air Pollution appropriate temperature control, turning off Limited the use of air conditioning out of power in unoccupied rooms, and turning off Mediumto long-term Work at reducing air pollution from vehicle hours at Head Office Building (prohibited use power when leaving desks. plan emissions. from October to May). Used some LED lighting at Head Office Results Reduce number of sales vehicles; promote Building. FY 2013 targets MUN Environmental Impact Reduction Targets shift to compact vehicles. Clearly indicated which switches control which lights in the offices of Head Office Reduction of Electricity Use Reduced by about 70 vehicles and shifted to Building. Results about 20 compact vehicles. FY 2013 Reduce by 17% compared to FY 2010. company-wide target Year-long electricity conservation measures Results were impacted by the hot summer, limiting the reduction to 15% compared to FY 2010. Reduction of Copy-Paper Use FY 2013 Reduce by 6.5% compared to FY 2010. company-wide target Achieved a reduction of 7.5% compared to Results FY 2010 through an Office Paper Reduction Awareness Month and other initiatives. 51 MUFG CSR Report 2014 Society: Labor Practice and Decent Work >> Employee Policies and Initiatives Employee Policies and Initiatives We strive to create work environments that foster an effective approach towards work. Basic Policies and Structure Number of Employees Using Support Systems and Leave FY 2011 FY 2012 FY 2013 Childcare leave 1,503 (198 men) 1,974 (222 men) 1,942 (190 men) MUFG believes that higher employee satisfaction is The Bank of Shorter work hours for childcare 654 845 1,073 Nursing care leave 131 (24 men) 142 (25 men) 190 (45 men) reflected in work performance, and leads to increased Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Relocation recruitment system 79 148 136 customer satisfaction. MUFG also believes that employees' Family care leave 16 10 18 job fulfillment is reflected in society and at home, fostering Childcare leave 178 196 222 (2 men) better communities. Based on these beliefs, we listen to Shorter work hours 137 166 213 Mitsubishi UFJ employees' ideas to create more fulfilling workplaces. Trust and Banking Subsidy for childcare expenses 208 216 195 Use of maiden name 120 152 217 Job Challenge system 44 11 9 Childcare leave 138 (3 men) 115 (4 men) 115 (1 men) Mitsubishi UFJ 107 Shorter work hours for childcare 112 89 Morgan Stanley Family care leave 0 0 1 Securities Relocation requests*1 3 3 5 *1 Total for fiscal year. Status of Employees (new criteria) FY 2011 FY 2012 FY 2013 *2 Does not include executive officers, Number of Employees* 2 35,480 36,499 37,527 excludes BTMU employees seconded to Of these, overseas local hires 6,814 7,535 8,085 other companies, The Bank of Contract employees 1,896 1,815 1,874 includes employees of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Temporary employees*3 12,262 12,166 12,675 other companies seconded to BTMU. Average age*4 38 yrs. 1 mo. 38 yrs. 2 mo 38 yrs. 3 mo. *3 Includes temporary staff. Average years of continuous service*4 14 yrs. 11 mo. 14 yrs. 11 mo. 14 yrs. 11 mo. *4 Excludes employees Number of employees* 5 6,999 6,889 6,868 hired by overseas Of these, contract salespersons 749 697 632 subsidiaries and employees of other Mitsubishi UFJ Of these, overseas local hires 214 233 263 companies seconded to Trust and Banking Temporary employees 1,471 1,367 1,477 BTMU. Average age*6 40 yrs. 8 mo. 41 yrs. 1 mo. 41 yrs. 5 mo. *5 Does not include executive officers. Average years of continuous service*6 1 5 yrs. 8 mo. 16 yrs. 3 mo. 16 yrs. 8 mo. *6 Excludes executive Number of employees*5 4,707 4,536 4,659 officers, employees Mitsubishi UFJ Of these, overseas local hires*7 0 0 0 seconded from other Temporary employees Avg. 187 Avg. 272 Avg. 413 companies and Morgan Stanley employees hired by Securities Average age 39 yrs. 10 mo. 40 yrs. 8 mo. 41 yrs. 0 mo. overseas subsidiaries. Average years of continuous service 12 yrs. 8 mo. 13 yrs. 5 mo. 13 yrs. 7 mo. *7 Employees hired by the Number of employees*8 3,420 3,454 3,249 Beijing office. Mitsubishi UFJ NICOS Average age 38 yrs. 9 mo. 39 yrs. 7 mo. 39 yrs. 4 mo. *8 Does not include executive officers and Average years of continuous service 15 yrs. 2 mo. 15 yrs. 6 mo. 15 yrs. 7 mo. seconded employees. 52 MUFG CSR Report 2014 Society: Labor Practice and Decent Work >> Employee Policies and Initiatives Number of Hires*1 FY 2011 FY 2012 FY 2013 Main Career Track 583 598 583 The Bank of Main Career Track (specific) 158 247 294 Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Area-Specific Track 591 612 803 Total 1,332 1,457 1,680 Track G 148 1 19 184 Mitsubishi UFJ Track B 48 28 111 Trust and Banking Total 196 147 295 Main Career Track 47 138 168 Mitsubishi UFJ Area-Specific Main Career Track 39 84 *1 These join the company Morgan Stanley Regional Track 0 0 57 on April 1 each fiscal year (only new graduates). Securities Total 47 177 309 *2 There were 15 female Females among new hires for Main Career Track*2 31.9% 31.2% 16.7% Main Career Track Main Career 20 28 61 employees in FY 2011, 43 Mitsubishi UFJ NICOS in FY 2012, and 28 in FY Regular Service 0 20 61 2013. 53 MUFG CSR Report 2014 Society: Labor Practice and Decent Work >> Employee Policies and Initiatives Promoting Work-Life Balance before taking leave and before returning to work, 6. BTMU Childcare Leave with Partial Pay voluntary flex-time system, 7. re-challenge plan (rehiring MUTB MUFG Supporting Employees' Childrearing program), 8. use of maiden name, 9. awareness-raising MUMSS seminars to boost productivity and promote work-life In response to requests by male employees to take Each group company has obtained certification under the balance, including time management trainings, etc., and childcare leave and be involved in raising their children, Act on Advancement of Measures to Support Childrearing. 10. awareness-raising for management level personnel, etc. BTMU and MUMSS allow male employees to take up to ten Employers satisfying certain requirements, such as having days of paid childcare leave, while MUTB offers male a proper employer action plan in place and supporting the MUN Reduction of Working Hours employees up to two weeks of paid childcare leave. These work-life balance of employees, are able to obtain certifioptions encourage male employees to take childcare cation from the directors general of prefectural labor MUN promotes employees' work-life balance by reducing leave, as part of MUFG's efforts to create a corporate departments. Going forward, MUFG will continue to long working hours, and encouraging employees to take culture conducive to realizing work-life balance. provide additional support to enable employees to consecutive days of paid annual leave. balance work and family life. MUMSS Enhancing Work-Life Balance Program for We make it a rule to have a No Overtime Day once each Childrearing BTMU Merihari Work & Life week, and employees are encouraged to leave early on paydays, bonus payment days, and on July 7 (Cool Earth MUMSS is making further changes to improve work-life BTMU is carrying out a program to further enhance the Day), as well as each day during Obon week (Japanese balance with childrearing, including extending programs that work-life balance of employees. Named the Merihari Work traditional annual holiday in the summer) and two weeks in allow shorter work hours and shift work for childcare to the & Life Campaign (meaning Improve work efficiency and November for Family Week. In addition, MUN has estabthird year of primary school, creating new options for late balance and Reduce working hours ), this program aims lished a system for employees to take five consecutive days arrival and early departure to/from work and a child subsidy, to promote lively working styles by adding tips and of paid annual leave each year, as well as anniversary leave, and improving a babysitter subsidy. MUMSS also works to improvements to what are already highly-productive which encourages employees to take paid leave on private reduce stress and prepare parents to return to work by working styles and efficient use of time. Going home anniversaries. In FY 2013, 97.3% of employees took five offering Return-to-Work Seminars for employees on childcare signs (kaeru fuda) are distributed to offices and branches consecutive days of paid annual leave. As a result, 66.8% of leave. that request them, to promote greater efficiency at work. overall annual leave days (12.8 days) were taken in FY 2013. The idea is to let employees declare what time they plan to MUN Childcare Support finish work and go home. BTMU Programs to Support Employees' Return to Work In FY 2010, MUN introduced a Return to Work Program MUTB Work-Life Balance 10 Personnel System BTMU supports women who wish to use their full abilities comprising at-home learning and a class upon their return to while balancing work with childrearing. Examples include work for employees taking childcare or family care leave. This To further promote a good work-life balance for its employtrainings and interviews for expecting mothers before they program helps these employees maintain their skills and feel ees, MUTB has established a personnel system called take maternity leave, the Internet-based wiwiw support confident upon returning to work when their period of leave Work-life Balance 10. This system consists of ten compoprogram that helps employees on childcare leave prepare ends. In addition, to support diverse working styles, the scope nents combined into one overall program: for return to work, and career-awareness and skills training of employees considered to be raising children was expanded 1. Expanded childcare leave system (two weeks of paid programs once they return to work. BTMU also offers to include an individual with a child up until the end of the leave), 2. shorter work hours system (up to three hours), diversity-management training for management-level fiscal year when the child is in the third grade of elementary 3. hospital care leave system (one paid day of leave per employees to learn methods for developing and managing school. The half-day leave program was expanded to allow month), 4. subsidy for childcare expenses, 5. interviews a diverse workforce that includes working mothers. employees to take a half-day off up to 20 times per year. 54 MUFG CSR Report 2014 Society: Labor Practice and Decent Work >> Employee Policies and Initiatives BTMU Kagaya Kids' Day Offering an Open Workplace in awareness. The survey also helps identify unresolved issues and shape future policy decisions, the results of BTMU held Kagaya Kids' Day at head offices in Tokyo, MUFG Listening to Our Employees which are shared with all managers and employees. Nagoya, and Osaka, and at other offices and branches. Its aims were to introduce employees' children to their In FY 2013, each group company in Japan again utilized MUFG Employee Health Promotion parents' workplaces and to teach them about the role intranet systems to gather opinions from employees and finance plays in society. Each venue made arrangements conduct employee satisfaction surveys in order to ensure BTMU has set up Health Centers in three locations for an enjoyable experience for both parents and children. that employees' opinions are reflected in both operations (Marunouchi Head Office, Nagoya and Osaka Buildings), Employees who participated had comments about how and company systems. with full-time medical advisors and occupational health memorable it was to see the happy faces of the children, nurses. Based on the results of routine medical exams, and how just having young children at work created a nice BTMU has introduced a system on its intranet called OPEN they support employees' health maintenance through atmosphere in the office. which provides a channel for employees to share their activities such as offering follow-up health checkups, opinions anonymously or using their real names. As a health advice, and consultations with employees about MUN Family Visit Day survey of employee satisfaction, we generally conduct an issues of overwork. They are also engaged in awarenessanonymous survey of all our employees in Japan once raising, through dental health checks and healthIn August 2013, MUN held Family Visit Day at the Head each year, for the purpose of creating a dynamic education programs for people at the age of thirty, and Office and five other offices. This was an event for employworkplace and fostering good corporate culture. publish Health Center Newsletters. In addition, efforts are ees' family members to learn about their parents' being made to get a better assessment of the workplace workplace. They deepened an understanding of the MUTB conducts an annual employee satisfaction survey environment, by conducting mobile health consultations company through workplace tours, practiced exchanging (ES Survey) of all its employees in Japan. Survey results at local branch offices. Three BTMU offices are equipped business cards, and visited the Card Gallery. MUN aims to and employees' opinions are communicated to managewith Health Consultation Offices, where they work with continue providing opportunities to strengthen ties ment and employees alike in order to build a shared doctors and counselors to help employees with any between family members and to boost employees' understanding, and are also used to improve the mental health issues they face. They hold various types of company loyalty and work motivation. working environment. MUTB plans to continually make mental health trainings for personnel, including newlyimprovements around issues that are raised by the appointed chief and senior managers, and are actively MUTB Children's Visiting Day survey. engaged in awareness-raising, including through providing useful information for mental health via a Health ConsultaIn August 2013, MUTB held its seventh Children's Visiting MUMSS has an Opinion Box that lets employees send in tion Office Newsletter once per month. Day at its Head Office Building. The event featured their comments and requests by e-mail.It also impleworkplace tours, quizzes about trust banking, the opportuments an employee satisfaction survey once per year, MUTB has established the Employees Counselors nity to feel the weight of 100 million yen in cash, and a with the findings used by management and in initiatives Division, which works with medical advisors and chance to exchange business cards with the company to improve corporate culture. counselors to promote the physical and mental health of president, among other activities. Feedback included employees. The offices work to maintain employee many comments that the event let children see another MUN has been conducting an employee awareness health, for example, by launching counseling services, side of their parents, and helped them feel closer. MUTB survey (morale survey) that targets all employees, offering health advice based on routine medical exams, will continue in the future to promote events to raise including part-timers and temporary workers, since FY and providing health-related information. awareness about work-life balance. 2008. A comparative analysis of the most recent survey with past surveys helps the company monitor changes 55 MUFG CSR Report 2014 Society: Labor Practice and Decent Work >> Employee Policies and Initiatives At the Healthcare Center of MUMSS, medical doctors and global MUFG identity. We held workshops in our major ees, providing them with opportunities for self-directed occupational health nurses provide healthcare support to markets, Europe, the Americas, and Asia, to help employlearning. BTMU believes that enhancing these training employees based on the results of routine medical exams, ees implement the Corporate Vision as a unifying aspect programs helps employees think about their own aptitude and also work to improve the working environment by of the new MUFG brand. Workshop participants are now and orientation at each juncture in their careers, to blaze meeting with employees about overwork, and managing advancing the Corporate Vision as brand ambassadors at their own trail for their careers, to enhance their personal the Health Committee. The Health Promotion Division also their respective branches. capacity, and to develop as individuals. publishes a newsletter, lends audio CDs for relaxation and otherwise disseminates useful information about managIn Japan, MUFG companies hold joint training events for MUTB provides training catered to each individual's ing and improving one's health in a timely manner. With new hires, new branch heads, new company directors, and position, rank, and occupation, and through its Personnel respect to mental health, professional counseling is employees in various other positions. For young employDevelopment Program in each field of business, conducts provided by clinical psychologists who work closely with ees up to their tenth year with the company, we hold practical job rotation, carries out training for the specific physicians, and employees are encouraged to become workshops where they can engage in direct dialogue with work responsibilities of each division, and supports more aware of mental health issues through activities such company directors to further catalyze their understanding employee efforts to attain job-related qualifications with as managerial-level trainings and seminars open to all of the Corporate Vision. the aim of strengthening its human resources. In addition, employees. the bank is expanding the range of educational opportuniThese objectives also apply to the recruiting process, ties for employees seeking to independently develop their At MUN, a full-time supervising medical advisor in the where we assist university students in their understanding careers by offering classes that cover such subjects as head office works closely with part-time medical advisors of MUFG companies through the MUFG careers website, time management and logical thinking. in offices throughout the country. Follow-up measures collaborative recruiting events, and introductory DVDs and after medical exams, mental healthcare, meetings with other materials. Our aim is to attract employees who share MUMSS provides both rank-specific and function-specific employees about overwork, and other measures are used similar values with the Corporate Vision, so they are training to all employees, from new hires to corporate to promote employee health management. Through a immediately ready to put these values into practice and directors. The company also supports employees' efforts checklist that allows employees to determine the degree challenge themselves to grow. to develop personal qualities and skills and attain workof their accumulated fatigue, and through the company related qualifications. To strengthen compliance, monthly bulletin, employees are educated about the importance of MUFG Enhancing Training Programs training sessions focusing on a common, company-wide proactively managing their own health. topic are held in each division, and employees are tested BTMU divides human resources development for all on what they learned every six months. MUMSS estabDeveloping Human Resources employees into two main categories, one being personal lished a human resources development framework in FY capacity, and the other skills and expertise. While human 2012, and is working on reforms, including ways to boost MUFG Sharing and Implementing Our Corporate Vision resources development is based on reinforcement personal capacity and the level of expertise. through daily work, in order to bolster the personal With 140,000 employees in more than 40 countries, MUFG capacity of employees, training is implemented on a MUN sees personnel training as the starting point for is committed to education and training to ensure that all company-wide basis according to rank. In addition, everything, and fosters a diverse workforce through employees worldwide can understand our Corporate skills-training programs are provided for each division, with educational programs with on-the-job training (OJT) and Vision and put it into practice. the aim of raising the level of employees' skills and experother training programs (OFF-JT). To enhance OJT, we are tise, which are necessary in order to provide superior reconfiguring the design of our evaluation system in FY Outside of Japan, we launched a new corporate logo in financial services. Furthermore, a full palette of 2014 and working to empower the workforce. Also, at the July 2014 that will unite all group companies under the self-enrichment support systems is offered to all employMUN Academy, our in-house educational organization, 56 MUFG CSR Report 2014 Society: Labor Practice and Decent Work >> Employee Policies and Initiatives we are engaged in self-directed transformation of combined with consideration of circumstances such as selves for career advancement by adding the Regional awareness and actions of each employee and upgrading job transfer of a spouse, or the need to care for a family Main Career Track to existing Regular Service and Main knowledge and skills, through such things as trainings for member; and a system that allows non-permanent staff Career options. Going forward, we will actively hire all ranks and employees, and through measures that including contract employees to become regular employtalented employees with a desire to change career tracks target each staff rank and objective. ees. and strive to put in place systems that emphasize work-life balance. BTMU Preparing Ourselves for Globalization MUTB implements in-house recruiting two to four times per year based on the Job Challenge (an in-house recruitBTMU Corporate Citizenship Project BTMU organizes and implements a variety of training ment system) for all employees who wish to change their courses under MUFG Global Academy to give employees careers in the company and the Post Challenge system for Since FY 2007, BTMU has included volunteer work in the the skills they need in order to succeed on the global managerial-level employees. As part of the Job Challenge training programs for new employees. By having them stage. For example, the Global Rotation Training Program system, MUTB offers the Global Challenge Course for participate in volunteer activities in the local community, provides locally hired staff in our overseas operations with employees to transfer to overseas offices and domestic this program aims to help employees become aware of a year of on-the-job training in another country. By offices that require foreign language ability. There have their roles as members of society and to have them adopt providing more opportunities for employees from any been cases of employees hired as area-specific employthe basic attitude of serving society and proactively country, geographic area, or culture to boost their skills, ees transferring to overseas offices to take on new responoffering what they can to people and society in general. BTMU aims to develop human resources (including sibilities at branches and offices. As part of MUTB's efforts Under this hands-on training program, called the Corpoemployees recruited overseas) that can meet our customto help employees build their careers, MUTB created the rate Citizenship Project, and in cooperation with the Tokyo ers' increasingly globalized needs. Active Career Challenge System, putting in place a Voluntary Action Center and other volunteer centers in framework whereby employees can choose how they want Tokyo, 577 new employees visited 137 facilities in two days MUFG Changes in Career Track and In-House Recruiting to work until the age of 65. Going forward, MUTB will in the Tokyo area, including facilities for seniors and continue to develop systems in response to employees' persons with disabilities. The entire process, including the Each group company has put in place systems that allow own motivation and desire to challenge themselves. pre-visit orientation, doing the actual work, and postemployees to change their particular occupation or career activity review, gave the new employees a chance to track, as well as in-house job-posting systems that let In FY 2012, MUMSS established an Area-Specific Main realize a lot about the role of the bank as a corporate employees apply for different jobs that they want to try. As Career Track, in addition to the Specific-Track, for employcitizen and their own role as an individual. At the concluone example of this, in order to support independent ees wanting to work in a broader capacity like Main Career sion of the training, the new hires discussed their expericareer development of each and every employee, BTMU Track employees. Every year, many employees at MUMSS ences, with some commenting that the program was a has created an in-house recruiting system that permits take the test to switch from a regional track to an Areagood opportunity to think about what they can do as a employees to apply for jobs they desire. They can apply for Specific Main Career Track, or from an Area-Specific Main member of society and others saying that it helped them a variety of posts at branches and offices in Japan and Career Track to a Main Career Track under the company's to understand the importance of thinking about things overseas as well as at the Head Office, and many employexisting system to allow changes in career track. from someone else's point of view. Just as importantly, the ees respond when job openings are announced several program allowed newly-hired employees to recognize their times a year. BTMU has also added CSR approaches as a MUN also offers broad opportunities for employees who significance as members of society. company that respects the work-life balance, for example, have the desire to use their skills to the utmost, by starting by offering a system to allow changes in career track to offer the new Regional Main Career Track in FY 2014, between Main Career Track, Main Career Track (specific) which involves no job transfers. Our system to allow and Area Specific (AS) tracks; a Relocation Posting System changes in career track lets employees challenge them57 MUFG CSR Report 2014 Society: Labor Practice and Decent Work >> Employee Policies and Initiatives Promoting Diversity hired, with women making up around 50% of those hired Support for Women's Career Development by the company in FY 2014. (Targets and Results) BTMU Supporting the Career Development of Female New targets April 2014 Employees MUMSS Launch of Our Diversity & Inclusion Office Target Item (March 31, 2015) (start of month) Total number of line 300 373 To support the career development of female employees, MUMSS opened a Diversity & Inclusion Office in October management positions BTMU has set numerical targets (see Note) and actively 2013, and working to create a workplace where diverse Top management 80 77 recruits female workers. In April 2011 we created new employees are engaged and motivated and to achieve Middle management 220 296 numerical targets, and are working to develop female work-life balance for employees to build their mediummanagers in domestic commercial banking offices, and long-term career plans. To promote a better underFemale manager ratio 15% 14.8% overseas branches and headquarters management that standing of diversity, we published the first edition of a Note: The target is aiming for promoting 300 female workers to line had limited female managers so far. BTMU is also promotbooklet entitled evolution and are implementing Diversity management positions by the end of the current Medium-Term ing its programs to allow employees to change their career Training Course, an e-learning program for all employees. Business Plan (March 2015). track and support contract employees who want to We also adopted a new practice that allows employees to become regular employees. use their maiden names at work. Starting in FY 2013, new university graduates were hired for Area-Specific Main In addition, the Main Career Track (specific) and Area Career Track positions that will not require job transfers to Specific (AS) Track Relocation Recruitment System allows new locations, and the ratio of new graduate female Main Career Track (specific) and AS Track employees, who recruitment was expanded to 55%. We are working to would normally not be given a job transfer that requires create an environment where all employees, including them to change their place of residence, to request a women, can demonstrate their full ability. transfer to another area for reasons such as the work relocation of a spouse or to provide care for family MUN Supporting Female Employees' Work-Life members. BTMU also introduced a system giving employBalance ees shorter working hours for maternity, child care, or family care. These measures enable certain employees to To help achieve a better work-life balance, MUN offers a continue their careers without interruption. longer period of time during which women can work reduced hours when raising a child, and introduced a MUTB Promoting Female Employment program to help employees on childcare or family care leave return to work. An active supporter of women in the workplace, MUTB holds seminars for female college students where it takes As of March 2014, 251 employees are utilizing these an innovative approach to helping women paint a clear programs aimed at building a more supportive work picture of the careers they could have after joining the environment. company. One such approach is passing out pamphlets that illustrate the day-to-day lives of female employees striving to balance work with personal or family life. Efforts like this have led to an expansion in the roles of women 58 MUFG CSR Report 2014 Society: Labor Practice and Decent Work >> Employee Policies and Initiatives MUFG Evaluating Our Diversity Initiatives Ltd. and MU Business Partner Co., Ltd., which promote the hiring of persons with disabilities. These companies are Each group company promotes diversity as part of its hiring many persons with disabilities to work on bank endeavor to create dynamic organizations. Diversity operations on an outsourcing basis. means embracing both our external and internal differences and creating an environment where everyone can MUTB works with special subsidiary Ryoshin Data Co., Ltd., use their abilities to the fullest to contribute to the organiwhich specializes in data entry operations, to create zation. employment for persons with hearing and other disabilities. The company has hired a cumulative total of 140 The Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry (METI) and persons with disabilities over the past 35 years, and as of the Tokyo Stock Exchange jointly designated MUFG as a June 2014, 47 such employees were engaged in a wide FY 2013 Nadeshiko Brand, to recognize us as one of the range of operations, such as data entry and creating leaders among publicly-listed companies for being electronic versions of various documents. supportive of women in the workplace. MUFG Continuing Employment of Retirees BTMU issues an annual diversity report for all employees, and strives to raise awareness through various training Recognizing the increasing diversity of employees' life events, including an annual Diversity Forum. In March planning, and to support workers who wish to remain 2014, these efforts were recognized by METI in its Diveractive after passing the mandatory retirement age, group sity Management Selection 100 program. companies have introduced systems for ongoing employment of qualified employees who wish to remain Meanwhile, the non-profit organization Japan Women's employed with the company. Innovative Network (J-Win) awarded us second prize in the J-Win Diversity Awards. This was the second time to be recognized, the first being in 2012. The awards recognized our steady improvements in creating paths for women to top management positions and supporting them to reach their full potential, as we have included the promotion of diversity in our corporate strategy. BTMU Employing Persons with Disabilities MUTB Within the group, employees with disabilities are actively working in various offices. The group works closely with employees to match their duties to each individual's skills and aptitudes. BTMU has two special subsidiaries, MU Business Aid Co., 59 MUFG CSR Report 2014 Society: Human Rights >> Human Rights Policies and Initiatives Human Rights Policies and Initiatives MUFG recognizes respect for basic human rights as an important management theme, and has established the Principles of Ethics and Conduct and compliance manuals. (The Principles of Ethics and Conduct are listed on page 4.) Human Rights Initiatives issues such as sexual harassment and other abuses of BTMU Human Rights Awareness Slogan power. The Room also visits branches and offices for MUTB MUFG recognizes respect for basic human rights as an in-person interviews, and carries out human rights awareMUN important management theme, and has established the ness activities as part of efforts to create friendly workThe three companies BTMU, MUTB and MUN are actively Principles of Ethics and Conduct and compliance manuals places. engaged in human rights awareness activities, each year as part of its efforts to eliminate discrimination and create calling for suggestions for human rights awareness slogans friendly work-places. We declare that, in the spirit of MUTB has established a Human Rights Awareness Promofor the Japanese Bankers Association and the Industrial human respect, we shall not discriminate against people tion Office in the Personnel Division. All employees, Federation for Human Rights, Tokyo. or violate human rights on the basis of race, nationality, including temporary staff, can consult the Office about beliefs, religion, gender, or other grounds. human rights issues such as sexual harassment and other In connection with Human Rights Week (December 4 to 10), abuses of power in a variety of ways, including in person, MUN made a broad appeal for slogan ideas from execuMore specifically, in group subsidiaries we have estabover the phone, or via e-mail. The Office also carries out tives, employees and their families, with the aim of securing lished human rights awareness promotion entities, which human rights awareness activities as part of its efforts to a solid foundation of a corporate culture of respect for conduct awareness-raising trainings for executives and create friendly workplaces. human rights and a pleasant and discrimination-free employees of every rank, and work to promote the correct workplace. Six slogans were awarded in the companyunderstanding and appreciation of the human rights MUMSS has started hotlines both inside and outside of the three each in the employee and family categories. issues by each and every employee. company to receive and handle consultations from employees about human rights issues such as sexual In addition, each company offers a place where employees harassment and other abuses of power in the workplace, can consult with professional staff about harassmentand also has offered trainings for all employees. related behavior in the workplace, including sexual harassment and abuses of power. With this arrangement, MUN has established a telephone consultation center in the we show no tolerance for this type of behavior and aim to Compliance Supervising Department and an external prevent it. telephone consultation center as help lines to receive and handle consultations from employees about human rights MUFG Consultation Systems at Group Companies issues such as sexual harassment and abuse of authority in the workplace. BTMU has established a Counseling Room in its offices in Tokyo, Nagoya and Osaka. All employees, including temporary staff, can consult the Room about human rights 60 MUFG CSR Report 2014 Society: Society >> Local Community Policies and Initiatives Local Community Policies and Initiatives We encourage a range of social contribution activities based on employee participation, as a member of the communities where we interact with many people, in Japan and around the world. Basic Policies and Structures MUFG Environmental Education Project: Save Our training in management and environmentally friendly Common Treasures of the Earth organic farming techniques, to prepare them to serve as We recognize that the very existence of MUFG is sustained leaders in their home countries after their return. by society as a whole and that we have a duty to consider MUFG and the Mitsubishi UFJ Environment Foundation, in the key issues facing society. We have therefore identified collaboration with the National Federation of UNESCO MUFG Economic/Financial Education Program Let's Addressing Global Environmental Issues and Nurturing Associations in Japan (NFUAJ), are engaged in an educaLearn about Finance and Economy Society's Next Generation as the two priority themes to be tional project, named Save Our Common Treasures of the addressed by the entire group. We undertake our environEarth. The project's aim is to help ensure that humanity's In collaboration with the University of Tsukuba, MUFG has mental and social contribution efforts in keeping with this shared treasures are passed on to future generations. Our developed this educational support program to help basic policy and philosophy. major efforts in this project around the World Heritage site students enjoy learning about the importance of money and Shirakami-Sanchi include the planting of 100,000 seedthe mechanisms of finance. This program is used in elemen(The Group CSR Priority Themes are listed on page 7.) lings between 2008 and 2013, and subsequent care and tary school classes throughout the country. MUFG employnurturing of the growing trees. We will continue to give the ees host field trips to branch offices, where they use this Major Initiatives next generation of children opportunities to know the program to provide explanations to teachers and students. wonders of the natural environment and biodiversity and MUFG Hito-Machi Kiko TV Program to develop an interest in sustainability through learning, MUFG Job Shadowing Work Experience Program discovery and action. http://www.unesco-esd.jp/ (in As part of its CSR efforts, MUFG had been sponsoring the TV Japanese) Every year since FY 2007, we have conducted a Job program Gifts for the Future since 2009, which featured Shadowing Work Experience Program, through which high companies dealing with social issues. In May 2014, five years MUFG Next Generation Leaders Program for Asia and school students pair up with employees to learn firsthand after starting, the program was revamped. The new program the Pacific about the challenges and joys of the work experience; this is called Hito-Machi Kiko (on-air every Saturday from 10:00 to helps participating students to think about their future 10:54 pm on BS-TBS). In the program, professional photograSince FY 2008, MUFG and a public interest incorporated careers and employment options. In the FY 2013 program, phers present charming features of towns across Japan foundation, the Organization for Industrial, Spiritual and about 100 students from metropolitan high schools while focusing on the people who live and work there every Cultural Advancement–International, Japan (OISCA Japan), experienced what it would be like to work at MUFG, BTMU, day. By sponsoring this program, MUFG is supporting have jointly conducted the Next Generation Leaders MUTB, MUMSS, MUN, and MUL Head Offices, and later companies that are working to make the world a better Program for Asia and the Pacific. participated in a group discussion with other participants. place, and people who are committed to revitalizing local Participants reported that the program really helped them communities and globalizing Japan. You can watch previews This program brings youths from countries in Asia and the to think about their future options. of upcoming episodes, as well as previous episodes, on Pacific to OISCA Japan's training center in Fukuoka City, MUFG's: http://www.mufg.jp/csr/movies (in Japanese). Fukuoka Prefecture, where they receive one year of 61 MUFG CSR Report 2014 Society: Society >> Local Community Policies and Initiatives MUFG Hosting Internships world to deepen cross-cultural understanding, and participate in tree planting and weeding activities every creating instructional materials with those works to year. Each group company hosts opportunities for college broaden literacy and education in participating regions. students to pursue internships while they undertake their MUMSS Fostering Environmental Leaders academic studies. These internships provide students with MUFG Participation in FIT For Charity Run 2013 work experiences that allow them to make use of their The transition to a low-carbon society is essential to curb talents, while providing them with a variety of insights. Each group company helps to organize the Financial global warming and realize a sustainable economy. Industry in Tokyo (FIT) For Charity Run, through which MUFG Hosting the MUFG Graduation Memorial Cup sponsored runners and walkers raise donations for charity. MUMSS participated in the development of the Designing Soccer Tournament The ninth of these events was held during FY 2013 with the a Low-Carbon Society course offered since FY 2009 by participation of some 8,700 employees and family Keio University's Graduate School and was responsible for Each year, MUFG sponsors the MUFG Cup, a youth soccer members from 108 Tokyo-based financial sector compadelivering its Designing Environmental Business compotournament for sixth-grade students about to graduate nies. Approximately 1,200 runners and volunteers particinent. Starting with spring 2011, this course has been from elementary school in Tokyo, Aichi, and Osaka. The pated from 21 group companies. Donations collected go to updated and relaunched as the International Program for concept for this tournament is to use sports as a way to non-profit organizations that are engaged in meaningful Environmental Innovators. MUMSS is still responsible for foster friendships among soon-to-graduate students and community-based activities but lack sufficient funds the Designing Environmental Business segment and to develop an appreciation of others. because they are not well known. regularly hosts graduate student interns. Through its activities, MUMSS aims at creating the environment and The Seventh MUFG Cup was held from February to March MUFG Supporting Volunteer Activities by Employees nurturing the highly skilled environmental specialists that 2014, assisted by volunteers including group employees. A will lead the way to a low-carbon society. total of more than 10,000 children have participated since To support the desire on the part of their employees to the first annual tournament. contribute to society in various ways, BTMU, MUTB, BTMU Culture Support Project: Shiki Theatre ComMUMSS and MUN all have programs to provide employees pany's Kokorono Gekijou MUFG Mitsubishi Asian Children's Enikki Festa with information about volunteering, in addition to instituting volunteer leave systems and volunteer grants Since 2007, BTMU has cosponsored the Shiki Theatre Since the United Nations declared 1990 to be International programs. Company's culture support project, Kokorono Gekijou, Literacy Year, the Mitsubishi Public Affairs Committee which seeks to share stories about the things that are (MPAC) has been organizing the Mitsubishi Asian MUTB Peter RabbitTM Forest for the Future Environimportant in human lives, such as instilling in children's Children's Enikki Festa (an illustrated diary festival), in mental Conservation Activities hearts the value of life, caring for others, and the joys of collaboration with the Asian-Pacific Federation of UNESCO trusting in one another. In FY 2013, 560,000 children Clubs and Associations and the National Federation of MUTB signed the Saitama Prefecture Afforestation Agreeattended these performances nationwide. BTMU also UNESCO Associations in Japan (NFUAJ). MPAC endorses ment with Nagatoro Town in Saitama Prefecture in May donated 450 complimentary tickets to 28 children's the UN's goal of Literacy for All, and is comprised of 39 2009; based on this, forest conservation activities were nursing facilities, so that children from these facilities Mitsubishi Group companies. The festival welcomes initiated for a community forest (about one hectare in size) could attend performances of productions including participation from 24 Asian countries and regions, and has on Hodo Mountain in Nagatoro Town. Because MUTB has Hadaka-no-Osama (The Emperor's New Clothes). received submissions of 635,511 works of art as of 2013. adopted Peter RabbitTM as its mascot since 1988, this forest Ongoing efforts in this program are focused on displaying on Hodo Mountain has been named the Peter RabbitTM outstanding works in venues across Japan and around the Forest for the Future. Employees and their families 62 MUFG CSR Report 2014 Society: Society >> Local Community Policies and Initiatives BTMU Supporting the Activities of UNESCO Associated MUN Research on Next-Generation Personal Identifisponsored by the Special Olympics Nippon Tokyo. Schools cation Technology Employees and their families have also participated in the Special Olympics Nippon—Tokyo Walk & Run Festival, BTMU has been collaborating with a public interest While electronic settlement over the Internet is convenient, interacting with athletes with intellectual disabilities in incorporated association, the National Federation of issues such as credit card fraud and other problems point activities including running around the Imperial Palace. UNESCO Associations in Japan (NFUAJ) to support the to a need for further improvements in security. MUN activities of UNESCO Associated Schools, centers of worked together with the Graduate School of Information MUMSS Supporting Neighborhood Cleanup Rally Education for Sustainable Development (ESD) where Science and Technology, the University of Tokyo and students learn about the environment and international made an endowment to offer a course in Next-Generation MUMSS supports the national Furusato-seiso neighborunderstanding. In FY 2013, 113 schools received grants Personal Identification Technology at the school in FY hood cleanup rally that engages workplaces and schools from the UNESCO Associated Schools ESD Assistance 2013. MUN is donating a total of 250 million yen over five in efforts to beautify Japan; MUMSS has been calling on Project. The ESD International Exchange Program was years to help realize international standards for this employees at all of its branch offices nationwide to launched in FY2011 to send high school students from technology and safe and secure e-commerce. participate since FY 2009. To date, 519 employees from 50 UNESCO Associated Schools to Germany and France, branch offices and headquarters departments participroviding them with ESD-related learning opportunities MUN Hosting Training Programs for Educators at pated in neighborhood cleanups. every year based on international exchanges (14 students Private Companies dispatched in FY 2013). BTMU Mitsubishi UFJ Foundation MUN takes part in the Trainings Program for Educators at MUTB Teaching as Part of Industry-Academia PartnerPrivate Companies implemented by Keizai Koho Center Mitsubishi UFJ Foundation promotes international MUMSS ships (Japan Institute for Social and Economic Affairs) to exchanges in Asian and other countries. To foster human promote communications between the business world resources development in Japan and overseas, the Since April 2007, MUTB has participated in joint industryand academia. Foundation provides financial assistance to a variety of academia courses in cooperation with the Graduate international exchange programs and offers scholarships School of Engineering at the University of Tokyo. EmployMUN has hosted trainees a total of 13 times since 1999, to students in Japan and overseas. The Foundation gave ees provide lectures on subjects they are working on, presenting trainings developed in house. In FY 2014, a financial support to 16 graduate and two undergraduate sharing the latest information in their fields. Beginning in training was presented in July for eight members of the students from Asian countries to study in Japan in FY 2013. May of FY 2014, four sessions were held, focused on the Tokyo Metropolitan Board of Education. It also provided scholarships for 572 students at 27 themes of Equity Investment Strategies and Corporate universities in nine Asian countries, including China, Acquisitions . Each year, MUMSS employees participate in BTMU Sponsoring and Volunteering in the Special Thailand, Vietnam, and Bangladesh, bringing the total to intensive lectures organized by Nagoya University for MUTB Olympics Nippon more than 10,000 students since 1984. The Foundation graduate students. This lecture was intended not only to also hosts periodic events for students studying in Japan promote an appreciation of the role played by mathematBTMU and MUTB are sponsors of a public-interest incorpoto get together and mingle. ics in the financial sector, but also to interest science and rated foundation, Special Olympics Nippon, an internaengineering students in the field of finance. tional sports organization that provides support for persons with intellectual disabilities to participate in society by creating opportunities to train for and compete in sports competitions. Since 2007, MUTB employees have participated as volunteer staff in basketball competitions 63 MUFG CSR Report 2014 Society: Society >> Local Community Policies and Initiatives BTMU Mitsubishi UFJ Environment Foundation MUTB Mitsubishi UFJ Trust Scholarship Foundation culture in the fields of music, art, theatre, and traditional arts. It supports a wide range of causes, including ongoing The Mitsubishi UFJ Environment Foundation plays a key The Mitsubishi UFJ Trust Scholarship Foundation was amateur musical and theatre groups active at the local role in MUFG's efforts to address environmental and social established in 1953 to provide scholarships and funding to level, exhibitions that present notable works of art and concerns, supporting a wide range of efforts. These foster human resources development and advance opportunities for viewing by local communities, the include activities to improve the natural environment, academic research. preservation and passing on of traditional arts, and especially through tree planting (a total of 1.06 million trees performances to train people to carry on traditions. have been planted so far), village forest conservation, and In FY 2013, the Foundation paid a total of 191.8 million yen the creation of biotopes (natural habitat areas) at schools; in scholarships for 354 students, including exchange In FY 2013, the Foundation provided 19.7 million yen to 51 organizing the Midori-no-e Concour (held in 2014 for the students. Between the time it was established and FY projects. Between the time it was established and FY 2013, 39th time); offering sponsored lectures at universities and 2013, it has paid out a total of approximately 5.156 billion it has provided a total of 619.7 million yen to 1,210 perforother environmental education events; and undertaking yen in scholarships to 5,734 students (including exchange mances and activities. the Headwaters Forest project, which has involved students). participants in hands-on reforestation and nature observation activities in the Tone River watershed. Besides the scholarship programs, since the Foundation was established it has also been implementing a technolBTMU Mitsubishi-UFJ Technology Development ogy research funding program, and by FY 2013 had Foundation provided 242.41 million yen to 48 organizations. Mitsubishi-UFJ Technology Development Foundation MUTB Mitsubishi UFJ Trust Foundation for the Arts (known as MU-TECH), created in 1983, has been a pioneer in providing support for private sector ventures in Japan. The Mitsubishi UFJ Trust Foundation for the Arts was To comprehensively foster the development of the established in 1987 to support the advancement and technology-oriented smalland medium-sized enterprises dynamism of music and arts, and provides funding for (especially venture businesses) that are so vital for Japan's performances by Japanese groups such as operas and economic development, the Foundation provides a wide orchestras that have attained a certain level of artistic range of assistance, including research and development standard. grants, information, and consulting services. In FY 2013, MU-TECH provided 32.5 million yen in grants for a total of In FY 2013, the Foundation provided a total of 32.8 million 11 projects, including projects making significant contribuyen for 51 opera, orchestral and other performances. tions in the environmental field. In April 2012, the FoundaBetween the time it was established and FY 2013, the tion became registered as a public interest incorporated Foundation has provided a total of 1.586 billion yen to 1,418 foundation in Japan and at the same time began holding performances. equity in smalland medium-sized enterprises that have received the Foundation's grant assistance or loan MUTB Mitsubishi UFJ Trust Cultural Foundation guarantees. This Foundation was established in 1989 to support organizations that contribute to the promotion of local 64 MUFG CSR Report 2014 Society: Society >> Local Community Policies and Initiatives Local Community Involvement by Branch Employees Based on the recognition that MUFG is supported by society and the people in communiIn FY 2013, employees played a key role at local branch offices of the group, and engaged ties in which it operates, employees of local branches show appreciation by participating in a wide variety of activities, such as cleanup events, tree planting, financial education, in local community activities. company visits, seminars, and charitable projects. BTMU Community Involvement Activities by BTMU Branches Branch Activity Branch Activity Hiroshima/ Continued exchange activities with a welfare facility and organization for the Sao Paulo office gave lectures on water protection and energy conservation at a local school. BTMU (Brazil)*1 Hiroshima-Chuo Branch disabled, and held finance and economics classes for local children. Rio de Janeiro office worked on a program to minimize global warming. Provided company visits and financial education with branch offices and head office In partnership with Heal the Bay, participated in beach cleanups in Los Angeles. More than Head Office Los Angeles Branch departments to cultivate the next generation of human resources. 15 employees participate in each session and raised over US$1,600. Engaged in regular activities such as financial education, cleanup events, crime Employees conducted financial literacy sessions with students through Banking on Our Akabane/ New York Branch prevention, and blood donation with the cooperation of local police, NPOs, Future program. Akabane-Ekimae Branch businesses, and the Lions Club. Chicago Branch Employees volunteered to revitalize a school cafeteria. Engaged in ongoing activities such as financial education, cleanup events, crime Handa Branch Hosted an event, raising over ￡11,000 with bank matching, for a charity partner NPO who prevention, fire prevention, and proactively exchanging with the local community. London Branch provides sports and recreational facility for kids with special needs. Nakano-Ekimae/ Participated in crime prevention activities with the local police and regional Milano Branch Employees provided garden and planting service to the City of Milan. Nakanoeki-Minamiguchi vitalization events, in addition to providing ongoing financial education. Branch Participated in a cleanup-the-desert campaign, raising awareness of the impact of plastic Dubai Branch Engaged in cleanup and crime prevention activities in addition to providing financial on the desert wildlife. Umeda Branch education in cooperation with group companies. As part of the Junior Achievement program, employees used music to engage the Brussels Branch Participated in many events organized by local police, city hall, and public interest students with money matters to increase their financial literacy. Kawachi-Nagano Branch corporations. Engaged in community-based activities, such as providing financial Participated in global entrepreneurship week, putting together a presentation for schools education to high school students. BTMU (Poland)*2 on the role of banks in the global economy. Engaged in community-based activities, such as cleanup and cooperation with the More than 100 employees cleaned up the Zhishan Cultural and Ecological Garden, Oi/Oimachi Branch social welfare council, in addition to providing financial education to elementary, Taipei Branch a National Heritage Site. junior-high and university students. BTMU (China)*3 Employees participated in cleaning a marshland, and donating and setting up trash boxes Provided financial education to students on excursions, regularly cooperated with Wuhan Branch in a natural reserve. Business Loan Division welfare institutions, and engaged in cleanup and other activities. Ho Chi Minh City Employees visited an orphanage to teach children basic survival skills such as growing Retail Banking Video Working with a branch office, hosted workplace visits and held finance and Branch vegetables, and offered a program to teach the basics of financial management. Counter Center (Osaka) economics classes. Employees participated in a five-km run to raise money for children in an orphanage. The Jakarta Branch Branch gave a donation for every staff who reached the finishing line, and raised a total of 5,000,000 Indonesian rupiahs. Sydney and Participated in activity by an NPO that distributes food to people in need. The branches Melbourne Branches also donated six printers and 20 scanners to the organization. Organized a run around Hanoi City's biggest public park to raise funds on behalf of the Hanoi Branch Red Cross Association for the victims of tropical storm Haiyan. Manila Branch Joined the One Million Trees and Beyond project in Cavite province to plant sugar palm trees. Hiroshima/Hiroshima-Chuo Branch Akabane/Akabane-Ekimae Branch Retail Banking Video Counter Center (Osaka) *1 Banco de Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Brasil S/A *2 Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ (Polska) Spolka Akcyjna *3 Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ (China), Ltd. 65 MUFG CSR Report 2014 Society: Society >> Local Community Policies and Initiatives MUTB Community Involvement Activities by MUTB Branches ● Activities by overseas MUSHD subsidiaries Branch Activity Branch Activity Organized a ceremony at Onagawa Restoration Gardens to unveil the Peter Provided career guidance (workplace visits, acceptance of internships, etc). Sendai Branch RabbitTM Garden created to commemorate 25 years as MUTB's mascot. Participated in cleanup activities in front of Kichijoji Station to support the . Supported NPOs and other organizations with goods and donations. Gave donations collected at charity events (marathons, triathlons, bicycle races, parties, and the Kichijoji Branch Musashino City cleanup plan. sale of bread and confectioneries baked by employees in company offices, etc) to hospitals, Financial Institutions Division Engaged in the sorting of used postage stamps. MUSI*1 . cancer awareness-raising organizations, support groups for the disabled, and other organizations. Participated in Wrap Up London (the collection and donation of unneeded coats for organizaPension Business Division IV Volunteered to clean care facilities for sick children. tions that support the homeless, refugees, and other people in need), Christmas Shoebox appeal (giving Christmas presents to residents of senior care homes), and other initiatives. Global Operations Division Participated in the Xmas Cards for Children in Disaster Area project. Engaged in the cleanups, flower bed planting, and painting of playground equipment, etc., at Hosted a bank tour for preschool children as part of the branch's 50th parks and local facilities. Yokohamaeki-Nishiguchi Branch anniversary celebration. Mito Branch Hosted cleaning activities around the Kodokan, a nationally designated .Supported NPOs and other organizations with goods and donations. Contributed donations collected at charity events (parties and the sale of bread and important cultural property. 6 Offices in Nagoya Area, Gifu Branch Held a ceramics workshop for children from foster homes in Aichi Prefecture. MUS .confectioneries baked by employees in company offices) to NPOs and other organizations. Participated in Happy Doll project (sending painted and decorated white dolls to children), (USA)*2 Paintfest (drawing pictures for local hospitals, etc), and other initiatives. Participated in a tree planting activity at the 11th Forest of Symbiosis Tree Osaka Corporate Business Division Engaged in the cleanups, flower bed planting, and painting of playground equipment etc. at Planting Festival supported by the Mitsubishi UFJ Environment Foundation. parks and local facilities. Young employees participated in career guidance event for parents of Nara Branch . high-school students. Supported NPOs and other organizations with goods and donations, etc. Contributed donations collected in a charity event (SGX Bull Charge, a marathon race) to an NPO. Participated in local improvement work at Mount Rokko, and engaged in MUS Kobe Branch Invited a visually-impaired masseur to the office to provide a massage service for the tree planting and grass cutting. (Singapore)*3 independence of the visually-impaired. Kochi/Okayama/ Participated in the Collaborative Forest Restoration with Environmentally Takamatsu/Tokushima Branch Progressive Companies project organized by Kochi Prefecture. Contributed daily commodities and gifts to children from poor families. . Supported NPOs and other organizations with goods and donations. Kyushu Corporate Business Division, . Engaged in Tenjin district cleanup work in Chuo Ward, Fukuoka City. Gave donations collected at a charity event (Walk for Millions, a walking event) to an NPO. Fukuoka Branch Invited a visually-impaired masseur to the office to provide a massage service for the London Branch Participated in a charity walk and fund-raiser for a cancer research fund. MUS independence of the visually-impaired; collected unsold bread from shops and donated it to (Hong Kong)*4 an NPO; visited a facility for the elderly to celebrate on the day of the Dragon Boat Festival; and recycled daily necessities such as clothes, bags, bed linen, and toys. MUMSS Community Involvement Activities by MUSHD Group companies Engaged in a beach cleanup and flower bed planting at a park. ● Activities by MUMSS *1 Mitsubishi UFJ Securities International *2 Mitsubishi UFJ Securities (USA) *3 Mitsubishi UFJ Securities (Singapore) Branch Activity *4 Mitsubishi UFJ Securities (Hong Kong) Engaged in tree planting and held a disaster prevention class in Nakajima Park Sapporo Branch MUN Community Involvement Activities by MUN Branches jointly with Mitsubishi Group companies. Osaka/Namba/Umeda/ Branch Activity Cleaned the vicinity of Hattori Ryokuchi Park after the Kinki district athletic meet Kobe/Kyoto/Himeji/Wakayama/ (attended by 320 employees and their families). 2 Offices in Akihabara and Held blood donation campaigns in cooperation with the Japanese Red Cross Nara/Sakaihigashi Branch Higashi Nihonbashi Society. Takamatsu Branch Held a cleanup in the surrounding neighborhood and customer parking lot. Tokyo Regional Collection & Recovered PET bottle caps for recycling, supported vaccine purchases and Tachikawa Branch Cleaned up around the branch. Administration Department employment of persons with disabilities. Head Office (10 Offices) Cleaned up around Mejirodai Building and KR Toyosu Building. 66 MUFG CSR Report 2014 Society: Society >> Local Community Policies and Initiatives Local and International Community Initiatives long-term MUFG Mentoring Programme. In this collaborative BTMU also increased funding for the environment by project with Mitsubishi UFJ Securities International (MUSI), working with the WWF on sustainable agriculture in Brazil BTMU Global Volunteer Month MUFG Gives Back employees from BTMU and MUSI co-mentor students on and National Audubon Society on grasslands conservation education and career choices, aiming to raise students' in Mexico. BTMU designated November 2013 as Global Volunteer career aspirations and develop their self-confidence. We Month, kicking off its employee-driven social engagement also organized various fundraising and volunteer opportuniWashington D.C. Representative Office supported services activities— MUFG Gives Back. Thorough the initiative, ties in cooperation with KEEN, our charity partner NPO. in a national park known for its beautiful lotus flowers and BTMU is keen to show appreciation, through local volunwater lilies during the summer. The employees removed teer activities, for the support Japan received from around Over the year 2013, nine team-challenge days took place lotus leaves to prevent the ponds from filling up with the world in the wake of the Great East Japan Earthquake. across the region, in Brussels, Dubai, London, Istanbul, decaying matter. 3,623 employees from 76 offices in 35 countries and Dusseldorf and Milan. These volunteer events ranged from regions engaged in various volunteer activities in a single cleanup activities to gardening, maintenance and painting Kentucky volunteers took all the withered bamboo and month. This was one of the largest-ever CSR initiatives for local schools and community groups, which were also trimmed them to make nice bamboo sticks for the park to among Japanese companies in which employees unite to an opportunity to strengthen solidarity among employees. make fences around trees to protect them from deer. They volunteer across the globe, and participants gained a new contributed to Boone County, where the Kentucky Corpoappreciation for volunteerism. Dubai Branch joined the Infocity IT Education Programme rate Banking Office is located, by trimming and cleaning which presented children in the UAE with the opportunity up bamboo groves in Boone County Central Park and BTMU Community Involvement Activities in EMEA to develop and learn IT skills, now so necessary in contemArboretum. porary society and business. Over 1,000 children In Europe, the Middle East, and Africa (EMEA), BTMU CSR attended, and each child was presented with a laptop at Santiago branch employees painted educational murals policy focuses on the triple bottom line of a sustainable the end of the session. with iconic images of the Chilean culture. They also business—people, planet and profit, in line with the group constructed a hanging vegetable garden with vases made CSR priority themes. In 2013 BTMU in EMEA supported 73 BTMU Community Involvement Activities in the United of recycled material, and presented and installed a charities through fundraising, corporate volunteering, and States high-quality bulletin board as a gift for a school. financially, with over £132,000. An inspiring 92% of volunteers stated that they feel prouder to work for BTMU BTMU's employees in the Americas offer donations and BTMU (Canada) employees participated in jean Fridays for as a result of this year's community engagement volunteer their time and energy to a wide range of a month, thereby raising C$893, donated 52 books to the programs. Working alongside the Junior Achievement community involvement activities. Toronto Public Library and 46 books to the Vancouver program, our volunteers supported the development of Public Library, and donated 20 pairs of used eyeglasses to student-led business ventures. The community investment BTMU in the U.S. contributed to major civic and cultural One Sight, a charitable organization that provide access to focus is to engage employees by leveraging their skills institutions like the Art Institute of Chicago. Its corporate vision care and eyewear to people worldwide. base and to develop young people through education and contributions for the arts and culture totaled about US$1.5 business skills. Thirty employees from seven branches million. In other efforts, in a joint project with Morgan Atlanta Corporate Banking Office participated in a gift (Brussels, Dubai, Paris, Warsaw, Madrid, Moscow and Stanley, BTMU volunteers marched in the AIDS Walk in drive, and delivered Christmas presents to children in the London) participated in the initiative, resulting in the New York for the first time as a team (the only Japanese community, in collaboration with the Salvation Army. involvement of 297 students across various programs. financial institution to participate), raising almost Note: An initiative in which a business or organization contributes an US$45,000. In the U.S., BTMU also expanded its activities additional fixed ratio to match donations collected from individuals. In September 2013, London Branch entered into the through employee matching grants (see Note). 67 MUFG CSR Report 2014 Society: Society >> Local Community Policies and Initiatives BTMU Community Involvement Activities in Asia and vegetarian at Green Lunches. The event drew attention to customers, suppliers, industry groups, and community Oceania the environmental impact of meat consumption. Staff also members. Union Bank listens to these audiences closely bought special meat-free sandwiches, donating the through a variety of means, including social media, and BTMU employees across Asia and Oceania partake purchase prices to the Community Chest of Hong Kong public opinion surveys. passionately in wide ranging activities aligned with MUFG's for educational and environmental purposes. CSR priority themes of protecting the environment and ●Active Participation of Employees nurturing the next generation. Employees at BTMU (China)* Shenyang Branch visited a public child welfare facility, donating daily necessities and One of the proudest things at Union Bank is the participaAs part of its 60th Anniversary celebrations, Karachi interacting with the children to assist in the development tion of its own workforce in many CSR activities. In FY Branch donated an ambulance to a hospital. And BTMU of the next generation. The activity was held jointly with 2013, the team members contributed a record 78,081 staff also presented fruit baskets to patients in different the local government, and personnel from the Shenyang hours of volunteer time, on behalf of a wide variety of wards to wish them a complete recovery. Foreign Affairs Office also participated. community initiatives, including public health, education, youth mentoring, community redevelopment, and environBangkok Branch organized a visit to a disabled children's Employees from BTMU (China) Guangzhou Branch mental stewardship. Among its senior leadership, 285 home where employees donated necessities and participated in tree planting activities with their children at Union Bank officers volunteer on the boards of 478 educated the children on social etiquette skills. Staff also the South China Botanical Garden. nonprofit organizations. set up a pretend store to teach the children how money is used and transacted during a shopping experience. Employees from BTMU (China) Beijing Branch participated ● Improvement of Financial Literacy in a refuse cleanup at Fragrant Hills as part of environment In collaboration with OISCA, New Delhi Branch committed beautification activities. They also participated in afforestaA particular focus of Union Bank's volunteer efforts is to a five-year Children's Forest program, which teaches the tion work at a site in Huaibeizhen, Huairou District, where promoting financial literacy. Union Bank believes that importance of preserving the environment. Activities they planted 300 donated saplings. leading in today's world requires a solid grasp of the included lectures, nature tours, and tree-planting, during fundamentals of banking, saving and investing to accomwhich staff proactively engaged with the students. *Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ (China), Ltd. plish goals such as buying a home, saving for college, or planning for retirement. Union Bank has strong partnerSingapore Branch organized a Kite Design & Flying event UB Community Involvement Activities at Union Bank ships with Operation HOPE, Junior Achievement, Big to engage and benefit the underprivileged children. It also Brothers Big Sisters, Boys & Girls Clubs and other groups, collaborated with a local secondary school to educate As a financial institution, Union Bank targets the bulk of our in which the bank could harness the financial expertise students on environmental conservation. philanthropy to four strategic areas: community economic within the business for the benefit of communities, development, affordable housing, education and the particularly young people. Staff from Mumbai Branch visited the Happy Home and environment. These categories are closely aligned with our School for the Blind as part of its annual support to the core businesses. school, which currently looks after visually challenged children. This year, the branch engaged Lesle Lewis, a ●Participation and Cooperation of Stakeholders locally renowned singer-composer, who held a miniUnion Bank embraces the power of participation. One of concert for the children. the most important jobs is to foster participation and More than 120 employees from Hong Kong Branch went partnerships among many stakeholders—employees, 68 MUFG CSR Report 2014 Society: Society >> Local Community Policies and Initiatives ●Community Development even more closely. Partnership with the school gives Union BTMU Club for You Social Contribution Fund Bank clearer insight into the difference the bank is truly Union Bank's commitment to CSR is grounded in the making in communities. Based on USD's impact analysis in In August 2007, BTMU launched the Club for You social understanding that the business can be only as healthy 2011, Union Bank now knows that, on the environmental contribution fund which gives money to organizations and prosperous as the communities the bank serves. front, its efforts led to 3,000 trees being planted, 2.5 addressing social issues, using funds donated by company Leaders of Union Bank and its predecessor banks contribmillion gallons of polluted water being treated, 3,100 tons executives and employees through deductions from their uted to the creation of the first transcontinental railroad, of material being recycled, and 1,000 individuals trained in salaries each month combined with matching contributhe San Francisco cable cars and other institutions. CSR is green jobs, resulting in 778 job placements. Quantifying tions from the bank. In FY 2013 (through June 2014), an important part of Union Bank's heritage and DNA, and and analyzing the impact will allow the bank to continually approximately 4,500 employees participated, contributing this should be a key reason why Union Bank was recently refine and improve community-building strategies and about 75 million yen to 24 organizations for the year, voted the nation's No. 1 bank in terms of reputation by investments. including the bank's matching contributions. American Banker Magazine. One of the most important ways to partner with communities is through the CommuContributions to Local Communities MUTB Kakehashi-Shintaku Ai-no-Kikin Fund nity Advisory Board, an 1 1-member group of prominent, engaged citizens. Union Bank sees this group as a strateMUN Social Contribution Credit Cards The Kakehashi-Shintaku Ai-no-Kikin Fund established in gic consultancy that provides the bank with valuable 1977 has been collecting membership fees for over 30 insight into the needs and priorities of the communities MUN issues credit cards designed to benefit society in a years from MUTB and affiliated company officers, employthroughout the footprint. Many of the successful programs variety of ways. A percentage of purchases is donated to ees, former employees, and their families to make donaand initiatives have stemmed from the feedback provided partner welfareand health-related organizations. tions to social welfare organizations nationwide. In FY 2013, by the Community Advisory Board. Examples of credit cards that are helping more people a total of 8.4 million yen was collected from 6,906 memparticipate in social welfare programs are the Bone Marrow bers. These voluntary membership fees and donations ●Reinvestment in the Community Bank Card, the Red Cross DC Card, and the Japan Guide collected were given to 21 social welfare facilities, includDog Association DC Card. ing those for the aged and children. Union Bank formulates a Community Service Action Plan (CSAP), which details its specific goals and commitments BTMU Emergency Disaster Assistance MUMSS Employee Donations Account in terms of community reinvestment. Under the current ten-year CSAP, Union Bank has agreed to invest at least BTMU has a system in place to quickly provide support In October 2007, MUMSS opened an account for collecting 5.2% of our total annual assets in loans and activities when a large natural disaster occurs in Japan or elsewhere employee donations. MUMSS matches the funds donated related to the Community Reinvestment Act (CRA) through in the world. When an earthquake, flood or other disaster by employees each year (from July through June). From its 2014. The total investment in community-serving loans strikes, BTMU works with non-profit organizations and establishment through July 2013, the account has donated and activities totaled US$7.7 billion in 2013. Its new plan is others to set up special bank accounts to collect donaa total of approximately 2.6 million yen to two organizations. being formulated, involving a great deal of interaction with tions for relief efforts. core community groups and other stakeholders. UB Charitable Activities of Union Bank In 2013, the bank contributed 100,000 Chinese yuan to ●Evaluation of Activities relief efforts for the Sichuan earthquake disaster in China Through its various philanthropic programs, the Union in April; three million yen for the flood disaster in Northern Bank Foundation donates 2% of the after-tax profits each Union Bank launched a new initiative with the University of India in July; and ten million yen in response to the year. Union Bank also has a matching program in which the San Diego (USD) to measure and quantify its total impact typhoon in the Philippines in November. bank matches donations made by employees. 69 MUFG CSR Report 2014 Society: Society >> Local Community Policies and Initiatives MUN Supporting Environmental Protection through MUN Sponsorship of the JAL Honolulu Marathon BTMU Expenditures for Social Contribution Activities OISCA Japan MUTB Since 1994, MUN has been a co-sponsor of the JAL MUMSS (million yen) Since 2009, MUN has been donating a portion of Honolulu Marathon. This is one of the four top marathons expenses saved in the shift to paperless statements and a in the United States, with about 30,500 runners participatCategories FY 2011 FY 2012 FY 2013 portion of the money used to convert ecopoints into gift ing in 2013 (including about 13,600 Japanese). MUN offers Education & culture 199 231 159 cards to the Organization for Industrial, Spiritual and a photo service and other assistance contributing to Social welfare & Cultural Advancement–International, Japan (OISCA Japan), participants' fond memories of the event, as well as special 157 167 143 environmental conservation a public interest incorporated foundation that promotes a cardholder-only events. Community contributions, wide variety of environmental protection initiatives. In FY 2,221 833 1,047 international exchange, others 2013, approximately 17 million yen were donated to BTMU The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Money Museum Total (see Note) 2,576 1,231 1,349 support school-managed forests, the Coastal Forest Restoration Project, and other projects promoted by The highly-acclaimed Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Money Note: Combined totals for BTMU, MUTB, MUSHD, MUMSS. Totals may not equal item sums, due to rounding. Also, figures do not OISCA Japan. Museum (Nagoya City, Aichi Prefecture) presents organized include donations for the Great East Japan Earthquake. displays of roughly 10,000 rare items from 2,000 years of MUMSS Spoiled Postcard Collection Campaign Japanese and global currency history, including the oldest shell money and the largest gold coin Tensho Naga Oban in As a joint CSR activity in FY 2013, MUSHD and MUMSS the world. It is Japan's largest private collection of monetary engaged in the Spoiled Postcard Collection Campaign, artifacts. Visitors can also enjoy displays free of charge on the which appeals for the donation of spoiled and unused history of money and ukiyo-e woodblock prints from the Edo postcards and unused stamps. The companies collected period, including a collection of prints by Hiroshige Utagawa, postcards and stamps from employees in February, who influenced impressionists such as Vincent van Gogh equivalent to about 160,000 yen in value, and donated and was famous for the Fifty-Three Stations of the Tokaido. them to two specified nonprofit corporations. In total, the companies have donated postcards and stamps equivaMUN Card Gallery lent to around 770,000 yen from the start of the campaign in FY 2006 until FY 2013. MUN has a CSR display called Card Gallery on the theme of credit cards, placed in front of the company's head MUN Support for the Japan Philharmonic Orchestra office reception desk on the sixteenth floor of the Akihabara UDX building in Tokyo. The gallery's history MUN is a special sponsor of regular concerts in Tokyo by section presents the development of credit cards in Japan the Japan Philharmonic Orchestra and provides special over the past 60 years, from the coupon system which support for performances by Alexander Lazarev and the was the predecessor to credit cards in Japan, to the dawn orchestra. As part of efforts for reconstruction after the of credit cards, and onward to the present. It also includes Great East Japan Earthquake, MUN collaborated with the a display of co-branded and other representative credit Japan Philharmonic Orchestra in organizing concerts at 42 cards issued from the 1960s onwards. The display allows venues as of December 2013, to provide a moment of visitors to glimpse how credit cards in Japan have changed peace to the people in the affected areas. throughout Japan's economic boom and other periods. 70 MUFG CSR Report 2014 Society: Product Responsibility >> Relations with Customers Relations with Customers We aim to satisfy our customers by providing top-quality services that respond to their input and expectations. Basic Policies and Structures MUFG Developing a Better Feedback Processing MUFG Monitoring System System Customers We treat customers' input and requests as a valuable resource that helps us to provide higher-quality services to We treat customer feedback as a valuable asset. BTMU, Collect customers. We seriously confront the issues that are the MUTB, MUMSS, MUN, and ACOM collectively gather more BranCall PostWebQuestionGovernIndustry ches centers cards sites naires ment root causes of customer opinions and requests, and we than 280,000 comments and requests every year (see agenassociations cies use this feedback to improve our products, services, Note). Received in person at local branch offices, over the Analyze Group companies Analyze customer views business processes, and other facets of our work. phone, via email, and through various other means, these inputs are analyzed and used to make important improveIdentify challenges MUFG Products and Services based on the Voice of ments. MUFG monitors these efforts and strives to make Improve products & services; Improve Monitor Customers continuous improvements to its processing system. reform business processes; conduct employee trainings; etc. MUFG takes the comments and requests it receives from Note: Data from April 1, 2013 to March 31, 2014 Report Verify customers—in all its various forms—seriously, using such Management, committees, etc. feedback to enhance products and services. MUFG Improving the Quality of Products and Services from the Customer's Perspective Report Business Link Shobai Hanjo, a large-scale business matchMUFG CSR Committee Customer Complaint Monitoring Meeting ing conference, is one example of an initiative we started To build enduring relationships of trust with customers, all based on requests from our corporate customers (See MUFG companies strive to manage and improve quality in page 79 for details.) every businesses process—from planning and developFour-Point Checklist for Putting the Customer First ment to delivery and after-sales servicing of products and 1 Accurately meets customer needs Group companies are always working to improve the services. Pros and cons have been clearly laid out for the customer, and cons, if satisfaction of our individual customers as well. Recent 2 any, have been properly explained examples include the addition of new functionality to our BTMU, MUTB, MUMSS, MUN, and ACOM all use a four-point All efforts have been made to make the product easily understandable, smartphone app, website notifications on loan counter checklist to confirm that adequate measures are being 3 including the provision of advertising and information on comparisons (consultation desk) availability (BTMU), improvements to our taken to consider the customer's perspective in the with similar products Nippon Individual Savings Accounts (NISA) online trading planning and development of new products and services. All actions have been taken to prevent customer complaints from 4 occurring, and measures for responding quickly to complaints have interface (MUMSS), and expansion to 24-hour Web services been prepared in the event of their occurrence for DC Card customers (MUN). Employees at both the head offices and local branch offices are always cognizant of the effect their daily work activities have on the customer's evaluation of the company, and therefore strive to provide products and services that exceed their expectations. 71 MUFG CSR Report 2014 Society: Product Responsibility >> Relations with Customers MUFG Extensive Training Programs Seeing improvements in customer evaluations as one of the most important topics for management, MUTB Training and education for MUFG employees are focused promotes customer satisfaction as an integral part of its on application of our customer-first principles. In our business strategy. Executives, including the president, hold MUFG Values Talk workshops, young staff discuss and regular meetings with each division in order to discuss develop an awareness of various topics related to our initiatives to boost customer satisfaction. Through these Corporate Vision of becoming the world's most trusted efforts, MUTB is working to improve operations from the financial group, such as what MUFG and its employees customer's perspective. need to do to attract and retain customers, and what they should aspire to ten years in the future. At MUN, important management issues relating to customer satisfaction are discussed at the CS Committee Each group company also works to improve customer chaired by the president. MUN also has a Customer Focus satisfaction (CS) by training employees to acquire better Committee, which works to improve operations based on communication skills, in addition to professional expertise. customer input. Examples include customer consultation training (BTMU), a retail banking education program (MUTB), quality improveMUN Acquisition of ISO 9001 Certification ment training for call center staff (MUMSS), and a CS promotion contest where participants practice and As one initiative to boost customer satisfaction, MUN has present role-playing skits (ACOM). raised service levels by acquiring ISO 9001 certification under the International Standard for Quality Management All of us at MUFG approach our daily work with the hope of Systems. serving and exceeding the expectations of our customers. We remain committed to building enduring relationships The Customer Relations Office, which acquired this with customers through sincere communication. certification, is working steadily to improve service quality and increase customer satisfaction. BTMU Putting the Customer-First Approach into MUTB Practice MUN Creating systems for service improvements that reflect the opinions of customers and employees who interact with them is an important management theme. BTMU's CSR Promotion Committee, attended by the president and general managers, meets regularly to discuss measures to continuously enhance customer and employee satisfaction and creates systems to incorporate operational improvements in response to customer input and complaints. 72 MUFG CSR Report 2014 Society: Product Responsibility >> Relations with Customers Protecting Customer's Personal Information concerned to ensure that appropriate measures are taken to protect customers' personal information. MUFG Personal Information Protection Policy 7. MUFG will establish procedures for correcting and Under its Corporate Vision, Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group disclosing personal information of customers.MUFG is (MUFG) understands it is the group's social responsibility also willing to receive opinions and inquiries regarding to handle customers' personal information properly. The the handling of such personal information. following is our Personal Information Protection Policy. We intend to do our best to protect our customers' personal 8. MUFG will continually review and improve its manageinformation by ensuring that every executive and ment systems to protect personal information. employee complies with this Policy. MUMSS Information Security/Protecting Customer's 1. MUFG will comply with laws and regulations regarding MUN Personal Information (ISO/IEC 27001 Certification) the proper handling of the customers' personal information. MUMSS has acquired the internationally-recognized ISO/IEC 27001 certification for information security 2. MUFG will acquire personal information properly. MUFG management systems at its call centers, and continues will notify and/or disclose the purpose of such personal working to protect customers' personal information. information to customers and will not use it beyond the disclosed purpose except as permitted by law. MUN has also acquired ISO/IEC 27001 certification for all operating divisions engaged in NICOS brand operations to 3. MUFG will educate all of its executives and employees increase the security of customer information and so that they understand the importance of protecting transaction settlement systems. personal information and handle customers' personal information properly. 4. MUFG will take necessary and appropriate measures to ensure the security of personal information and will endeavor to prevent improper access to, alteration, loss and/or leakage of personal information. 5. MUFG will not supply any personal information to third parties (including parties in MUFG) without the prior consent of the individual concerned, except as permitted by law. 6. When outsourcing the handling of personal information to other institutions, MUFG will monitor the institutions 73 MUFG CSR Report 2014 Society: Product Responsibility >> Relations with Customers Improving Customer Satisfaction Individual Customer Satisfaction Survey: Survey Outline (BTMU) Respondents Individual customers selected at random Satisfied Somewhat satisfied Neutral MUFG Customer Satisfaction (CS) Surveys Somewhat dissatisfied Dissatisfied / No response Distribution method Mail 0 20 40 60 80 100 Quantity distributed About 8,000 % In order to improve CS and provide services optimized by Quantity of responses About 2,300 34.4 32.6 27.1 customer feedback, each group company conducts regular customer satisfaction surveys to determine 3.7 2.2 whether our activities are meeting expectations. Each Customer Satisfaction Survey Results (BTMU) group company is working to incorporate customer (%) responses into our product development and services, so 90 . that customers can enjoy a high level of satisfaction with High our branches and services. 80 Credibility as a financial institution Internet, cell phone and Employee appearance BTMU (Individual Customers) other transactions overall Employee attitude toward customers Sound management 70 Skill and accuracy in clerical procedures In a survey conducted in October 2013, nearly 70% of Employee approachability respondents indicated they were satisfied or somewhat 60 Ease of understanding Employee product knowledge Satisfaction with BTMU satisfied overall with BTMU. employee explanations Aesthetics and cleanliness of ATM 50 Aesthetics and cleanliness ATM hours Employee understanding at branches (excluding ATMs) 40 of customers (and their needs) Waiting time at ATMs Diligent attitude toward compliance Employee ability to offer suggestions Branch locations 30 Social contribution efforts Secure transactions ATM locations including for cash cards, etc. 20 Waiting time at branches Branch hours 10 Low 0 Low Importance in bank selection High † Credibility as a financial institution, Sound management, and Diligent attitude toward compliance related to satisfaction levels for all respondents. Other criteria relate only to users. (Conducted in Oct. 2013) 74 MUFG CSR Report 2014 . Society: Product Responsibility >> Relations with Customers BTMU (Corporate Customers) Corporate Customer Satisfaction Survey Results (BTMU) (%) Satisfied Somewhat satisfied Neutral Somewhat dissatisfied Dissatisfied Not sure BTMU conducts corporate customer satisfaction surveys 0 20 40 60 80 100 % once a year. Development of new sales 17.3 28.3 41.5 8.0 3.3 1.6 Risk reduction for interest rate and other financial risks 19.7 25.7 41.4 7.6 3.5 2.2 The bank is sharing customer opinions obtained by branch bankers from surveys and customer interviews with all Efficiency of domestic settlements 19.4 25.8 45.7 4.4 2.4 2.2 employees, discussing improvements, and working to Cost reductions 10.6 14.2 59.2 7.8 6.1 2.0 boost customer satisfaction at its commercial banking Preparation of financial strategies 19.1 20.6 49.9 5.1 4.1 1.3 offices. M&A strategies and other advice 11.8 14.4 57.1 8.6 5.6 2.6 Measures for business succession 19.1 24.9 44.4 5.2 3.3 3.1 Acquisition and sale of land 13.5 18.5 54.8 6.0 4.8 2.3 Overseas marketing surveys 15.9 22.0 50.1 5.0 4.2 2.7 Asset management matching risk profiles 12.5 17.0 55.7 7.5 4.5 2.7 Drafting business strategies 13.1 14.2 57.3 6.6 6.3 2.6 Improved efficiency of foreign trade and global settlements 18.0 20.1 51.2 5.1 3.8 1.9 Preparation of overseas strategies 14.7 17.3 55.0 5.7 4.8 2.5 Capital strategy planning 18.7 14.3 59.3 2.2 5.5 BCP preparation support 5.7 4.7 75.0 5.2 7.5 1.9 Debt management 10.3 11.0 64.9 6.0 6.0 1.8 Reduction of financial risk due to weather and earthquakes 5.7 7.5 77.4 3.8 1.9 3.8 Reduction of country risk 10.0 11.7 70.0 3.3 5.0 Response to IFRS 3.9 5.9 82.4 3.9 3.9 Environmental response 5.3 4.8 72.7 6.2 6.2 4.8 Corporate Customer Satisfaction Survey: Survey Outline Respondents: Corporate customers selected at random Distribution method: Mail Quantity distributed: 25,000 companies Quantity of responses: 4,658 companies ( Total may not equal 100% due to rounding) (Conducted May-June 2014) 75 MUFG CSR Report 2014 . Society: Product Responsibility >> Relations with Customers MUTB Individual Customer Satisfaction Survey: Survey Outline (MUTB) Respondents Individual customers selected at random Satisfied Somewhat satisfied Neutral In a survey conducted in December 2013, about 70% of Somewhat dissatisfied Dissatisfied / No response Distribution method Mail respondents indicated they were satisfied or somewhat 0 20 40 60 80 100 Quantity distributed About 6,000 % satisfied with MUTB. Quantity of responses About 3,200 25.8 42.4 27.0 Among reasons customers emphasize for selecting a trust 3.5 1.3 bank, MUTB received high scores for credibility as a Customer Satisfaction Survey Results (MUTB) financial institution, employee attitude towards customers, (%) ease of understanding employee explanations, and 90 Accuracy in clerical procedures accuracy in clerical procedures. MUTB recognizes the Attitude of employees (i.e., tellers; same below) toward customers High need for greater efforts on items which received low 80 Credibility as a financial institution Ease of understanding ratings, and will continue striving to make further improveEmployee understanding of customers (and their needs) employee ments. Branch locations explanations 70 Employee knowledge and ability to offer suggestions Sound management Preferential services Prompt response to 60 customer inquiries Quality/frequency of campaigns Satisfaction with MUTB Diligent attitude toward Provision of information on products, compliance including 50 information management services and campaigns Waiting time at branches 40 Interest rates on term deposits, full product line Range of investment Simplicity of procedures for various transactions 30 trust products and services Website content 20 10 Low 0 Low Importance in trust bank selection High (Conducted in Dec. 2013) 76 MUFG CSR Report 2014 . Society: Product Responsibility >> Relations with Customers MUMSS Individual Customer Satisfaction Survey: Survey Outline (MUMSS) Individual customers selected by quarter Satisfied Somewhat satisfied Neutral A survey by MUMSS in October 2013 showed that Respondents sampling in three categories of managed Somewhat dissatisfied Dissatisfied / No response customer satisfaction overall increased by more than ten assets Distribution method Mail 0 20 40 60 80 100 percentage points above the previous year. Scores for skill % and accuracy in clerical procedures and employee attitude Quantity distributed About 5,000 25.2 38.7 22.8 9.3 toward customers were relatively high. Issues arose with Quantity of responses About 1,700 4.0 other items, however, so MUMSS is working hard to make improvements, in order to be a securities company that maintains long-term relations with customers. Customer Satisfaction Survey Results (MUMSS) (%) 90 Skill and accuracy in clerical procedures High 80 Employee attitude toward customers Employee product Employee approachability knowledge 70 Employee reliability Employee appearance 60 Prompt response to Satisfaction with MUMSS Internet trading (computer transactions) customer inquiries Timing/frequency of employee contact Employee understanding 50 of customers' needs Adequacy of information on Ease of understanding economic and market conditions employee explanations 40 Safety (security) of transactions Preferential services depending on assets deposited, transactions Employee ability to offer suggestions 30 Provision of information on products, Level of other fees services and campaigns 20 Transactions via operators at call centers 10 Low 0 Low Importance in securities company selection High (Conducted in Oct. 2013) 77 MUFG CSR Report 2014 . Society: Product Responsibility >> Relations with Customers MUN Individual Customer Satisfaction Survey: Survey Outline (MUN) Brand (non-affiliated) credit card users of Satisfied Somewhat satisfied Neutral In a customer satisfaction survey conducted in FY 2013, Respondents MUFG CARD, DC, and NICOS Somewhat dissatisfied Dissatisfied / No response 65% of customers responded that they are very satisfied Distribution method Mail (web responses also accepted) 0 20 40 60 80 100 or somewhat satisfied overall. MUN received a high score Quantity distributed 1,900 % in ease of use inside Japan. For items where the company 17.3 47.7 28.8 Quantity of responses 489 did not receive high ratings, MUN is striving to improve 4.6 1.6 products and services to satisfy customers. Customer Satisfaction Survey Results (MUN) (%) 90 High Ease of use inside Japan 80 Corporation image 70 Credit limit for shopping Call center Proud to use my card Ease of use outside Japan 60 Security functions, etc. Satisfaction with MUN Platinum concierge service 50 Ease of understanding statements Range of payment options Traveler's accident insurance, etc. 40 WEB site Point Program 30 Annual fee 20 10 Low 0 Low Importance in credit card company selection High (Conducted in Dec. 2013) 78 MUFG CSR Report 2014 Society: Product Responsibility >> Relations with Customers Improvements and Services for Corporate Customers MUTB Supporting Customers' SR Strategies MUTB Trust Type Employee Incentive Plans MUFG Business Link Shobai Hanjo Utilizing our wealth of experience in the provision of MUTB has been offering Employee Stock Ownership Plans shareholder services, MUTB responds to the diverse (ESOP) Trusts, which apply an employee stock ownership Business Link Shobai Hanjo, a large-scale business matchinvestor strategy needs of customers. This includes framework, since 2009, and began offering Stock Grant ing conference launched in 2005, is one example of an providing tools and comprehensive support for shareESOP Trusts, which give employees gratis shares of their initiative we started based on requests from our corporate holder relations (SR) strategies, which are designed to own companies, from 2011. Since 2012 MUTB has also customers. At our 11th conference held in Osaka in build relationships of trust with shareholders. been handling the Board Incentive Plan Trust which grants February 2014, approximately 3,200 companies—an shares of company stock to board members as an incenall-time record—engaged in some 7,100 business● SR NAVI tive. matching negotiations. SR NAVI, a system arising from the needs of individual Both of these trusts boost the incentives of corporate This year's conference was also attended by more than 50 shareholder satisfaction, converts information from a customer directors and employees and contribute to governmental agencies, investment promotion bodies, shareholder register into a database that can be accessed capital policies while also helping to expand employee and non-Japanese companies from 13 countries around online. It also allows for data analysis from a variety of welfare systems and to strengthen corporate governance, the world. At the conference, our overseas business angles through the Internet, making it possible to analyze which is of great concern to institutional investors. partners, Bank of Ayudhya Public Company, Vietnam Joint the composition of shareholders in terms of time series, Stock Commercial Bank for Industry and Trade, and Union shareholding period, and many other criteria. MUTB Proposals for Environmental Real Estate Bank, also placed a display booth for the first time. MUFG Holdings will continue to actively support companies using our ● Shareholder Surveys strength, the group network throughout Japan and the MUTB makes proposals for environmental improvements world, which seek to lower the barriers—in terms of By conducting shareholder surveys and analyzing the and energy conservation to boost the value of customers' sectors, operational scales, and regions—that come results, which makes it possible to grasp the attributes of real estate holdings. Specifically, MUTB makes diverse between companies, thus facilitating encounters that individual investors, MUTB provides comprehensive proposals in line with customer needs while introducing create value. support for investor relations strategies targeting individual providers and collaborating with partner companies. shareholders. Examples of ideas proposed include creation of smoking MUTB CSR-Related Business Plans Presentation and non-smoking areas in office buildings and facilities, Conference ● Institutional Investor Services strategies for CO2 reduction and energy conservation, and development of business continuity plans. MUTB has been holding the CSR-Related Business Plans MUTB has arranged a system to comprehensively support Presentation Conference since 2009 as one means of customers' shareholder relations and investor relations supporting the growth of enterprises engaged in CSRstrategies toward institutional investors through its affiliate related businesses. At the conference, presenters explain Japan Shareholder Services. MUTB provides support with their business plans to venture capitalists and operating a specialized menu of services, including surveys of the companies, and may find new investors and business holdings of customer's shares by domestic and overseas partners. Plans are being advanced to draw a greater institutional investors (shareholder identification surveys) number of participants in FY 2014. and preparations for the exercise of voting rights at shareholders' meetings. 79 MUFG CSR Report 2014 Society: Product Responsibility >> Relations with Customers MUL Private Finance Initiatives (PFI) ing and providing products and services. medical insurance products, and nursing insurance products, to meet wide-ranging customer needs, in MUL has been actively promoting Private Finance MUN Listening to the Voice of Customers response to requests from customers who want to consult Initiatives. PFIs are designed to provide the dual benefits of about insurance along with asset management. higher quality service and lower project cost, by utilizing MUN has introduced the CSnavi information system to financing and know-how from the private sector for the analyze and share customer opinions received at call All MUTB branches handle 16 annuity insurance, whole life construction, maintenance and operation of public centers and other locations and link these to specific insurance, and medical insurance products, and make buildings and facilities. operational improvements. With this system, customer proposals to meet the needs of trust bank customers. opinions regarding operations can be viewed at terminals (Number of products: as of March 31, 2014.) MUL has received orders for a total of 53 PFI projects so in each department and used to improve products and far, and has served as the lead company for 15 of these services. MUN will continue using CSnavi to respond to MUMSS Installing Computers for Internet Trading at projects (as of March 31, 2014). customer input and requests. Branches Improvements and Services for Individual Customers MUN Acquisition of ISO 10002 Certification To respond to customers unfamiliar with Internet trading, MUMSS has installed computers for customers to experiBTMU Customer Opinion Cards and Branch Action MUN has been working to improve quality in responding to ence Internet trading at each branch. With this staff MUTB customer complaints with the acquisition of ISO 9001 support, even customers who are not accustomed to Customer opinion cards are distributed at all BTMU and certification. To further boost customer satisfaction, in using computers can conduct Internet trading with MUTB branches to broadly solicit customer input and 2012 MUN acquired certification under ISO 10002, the confidence through guided, hands-on use of the computrequests to improve the products and services. Branches international standard for complaints-handling manageers stationed at each branch. This system has been well respond promptly to customer opinion card items that can ment systems. MUN will continue striving to improve received by customers. be addressed at the office or branch level. The improveadministrative quality to respond to customer needs. ments being advanced at each branch include providing MUN Notification to Suspend Card Transactions to loaner umbrellas for sudden downpours, furnishing special BTMU Support for Visually Impaired Customers Prevent Fraud seats for senior citizens, and providing magnifying glasses MUTB and eye-glasses for customer use. In this way, each branch At BTMU and MUTB, customers who have difficulties using MUN has introduced a system to detect fraudulent use of is working to eliminate inconvenience to customers. ATMs because of visual disabilities can send funds credit cards, to protect customers from malicious credit transfers at bank teller counters for the same fees charged card crimes. The system monitors customer card use for MUN Efforts to Further Improve Quality of Operations at ATMs. For customers who have difficulty reading or unusual activity 24 hours a day, 365 days a year. With this filling out forms, employees will allow their family to fill out system, transactions are sometimes suspended when MUN is acting to further improve the quality of operations forms and support them by reading forms on their behalf. cards are used, until we can confirm the identity of the as a cornerstone for building long-term customer reliance BTMU and MUTB hold seminars at each office and branch, cardholder. In response to customer requests asking for and trust. Beginning from full legal compliance, MUN is and are striving to provide comprehensive service. advance notification that there are such cases, MUN now working to strengthen its response to customer needs regularly prints information on efforts to prevent fraud in its through improvement based on customer opinions at BTMU Insurance Products members magazine and on postcards explaining fees. consumer protection and responding to customer needs. MUTB MUN strives to thoroughly manage, further improve the BTMU offers a variety of insurance products, such as quality of operations in all processes in planning, developannuity insurance products, whole life insurance products, 80 MUFG CSR Report 2014 Society: Product Responsibility >> Relations with Customers MUN Improved Website Usability MUN Services for MUFG CARD Members planning proposals, execution and reporting by a portfolio manager. Private Account supports customer asset Noting the rapid spread of smart phones, MUN began to MUN provides MUFG CARD members with special services conservation and growth from a long-term perspective, display characters and designs that fit smart phone and benefits from each group company. Examples of and is aimed at building long and deep relationships of screens for some online services for MUFG CARD memServices: mutual trust with customers. bers in March 2014, and for NICOS CARD members in June. The new designs are easy to read and navigate, for Examples of Services: MUN DCC (Dynamic Currency Conversion) Payment example, with larger icons on main page. MUN will Service continue working to offer convenient services to meet the ● Free use of ATMs both day and night at BTMU diverse needs of card members by steadily improving our In October 2013, MUN began to offer a dynamic currency website designs and functions. ● Preferential rates on purchases of foreign currency conversion (DCC) payment service that accepts credit through World Currency Shop (Tokyo Credit Services) card transactions in multiple currencies. When foreign BTMU Improvements to Branches and Facilities customers visiting Japan use a credit card at DCC member MUTB ● Point rewards for MUTB direct membership registration shops, they can now choose to pay either in Japanese yen Each group company is improving facilities to make it (Internet banking) and new housing loans (MUTB) or in their home currency. The charge is then determined more accessible to elderly customers and customers with by the exchange rate at the time of purchase, so there is disabilities. MUN supports card members in their daily lives and during no further exposure to exchange rate fluctuations, giving emergencies with services from each group company. customers more peace of mind. BTMU and MUTB, for example, are working to enhance convenience and safety at branch entrances by installing MUN Cards Meeting Customers' Needs MUN Virtual Prepaid Card e-saifu ramps to eliminate steps. They are also installing guide blocks for the visually impaired at the main entrances of With the steadily increasing popularity of online shopping, MUN provides the e-saifu prepaid settlement service for branches. BTMU is installing automatic doors, and MUN offers VIASO cards that give online shoppers more Internet shopping. The service can be used in the same provides wheelchairs at 90% of the branches nationwide. points for the money they spend. With the Urawa Reds manner as a credit card. VIASO CARD, a 0.255% of purchases is donated for the MUN POINT Meijin.com Service Urawa Reds (a team in Japan's professional football league) e-saifu is a prepaid service with an online account that to train players and support the team. With the Kumamon allows the customer to use the card at online shops that MUN operates the POINT Meijin.com service that allows VIASO CARD, 0.2% of purchases is donated to support accept Visa, within the prepaid amount. Visa numbers card members to automatically earn as much as 25 times local communities in Kumamoto (the Kumamon character issued online can be assigned to a family member and the regular points when they shop at POINT Meijin.com, a is Kumamoto Prefecture's official mascot). Through such used as an educational tool in families with minors, to members-only online shopping site. The service has been efforts, MUN is making arrangements to offer greater value teach proper credit card usage, with amount settings (total made easier to use with a simple login function, whereby for the use of our cards. withdrawal, monthly withdrawal, and single withdrawal card members do not have to log in every time they limits). MUN is responding to customers' diverse needs by access the site for a certain period, and the preparation of MUTB Private Account Service offering e-saifu as a new way to pay for purchases. a smart phone version. In addition to providing points to card members, the service contributes to increased sales MUTB provides the Private Account, a service for manageof participating merchants by giving them access to one ment of accounts with financial assets of at least 50 million of the largest membership networks in the market. yen. Private Account provides individualized investment 81 MUFG CSR Report 2014 Society: Product Responsibility >> Relations with Customers MUN Cloud-Type Multi-Payment System 'J-Mups' Response to Low Birthrate and Longevity ● Zutto Anshin Trust* 2 Together with JR East Mechatronics Co., Ltd., MUN jointly MUFG is developing new products and improving services MUTB offers a range of property management and asset developed a cloud-type joint multi-payment processing to address challenges related to Japan's low birthrate and succession trust products, so customers and their families system J-Mups, which supports credit cards, UnionPay longevity. can always feel secure. cards and electronic money, and began full-scale operations from July 2012. MUFG MUFG Property Succession Seminars Zutto Anshin Trust is a self-managed trust product which provides the following three security functions. The advantages of J-Mups include scalability whereby The need for estate planning or succession planning is point, coupon and other applications can be freely added, more common than many people think, and could arise for ● Security function 1: For oneself (periodic receipt of a fixed cost reduction at merchant side, and higher security and anyone. Wills are an effective tool for succession planning amount) speed processing. MUN has positioned J-Mups as an and the smooth disposal of assets, but they require innovative new infrastructure for the card settlement expertise and know-how regarding laws, tax regulations ● Security function 2: For one's family (lump-sum receipt) environment, and is broadly calling on member stores to and other diverse factors. ● Security function 3: For one's family (periodic receipt of a introduce J-Mups. MUFG holds seminars where specialists use concrete fixed amount) MUFG Guidelines for Better Customer Publications and examples to provide explanations and advice on wills and Forms inheritance planning strategies. It also provides support in Zutto Anshin Trust solidly protects deposited funds so line with the individual conditions of each customer, for funds owners and their families can receive funds systemEach publication and form viewed by customers is an smooth property succession. atically. The product was revised in March 2013, making it important communication tool between MUFG and our possible to design means of receiving funds more freely customers. MUFG established Guidelines for the PreparaMUTB Products that Address Japan's Demographic and in greater detail by the three security functions. tion of Customer Publications and Forms in October 2010 Issues *1 Some BTMU branches do not offer the products. to ensure that our increasingly complex and diverse products and services are introduced to customers in MUTB currently provides three asset succession products *2 Zutto Anshin Trust received first place in 2012 Nikkei Superior Products ways that are easier to understand. In May 2012, we that draw on the benefits of a trust: Zutto Anshin Trust, and Services Awards Nikkei Veritas Award for Excellence. prepared a collection of case studies of concrete improvewhich, in the event of the customer's passing, allows the ments made based on the Guidelines. We share and use bereaved family to easily receive money without burdenthem on our group's in-house portal site. MUFG undergoes some inheritance paperwork; Educational Fund Gift Trust external checks by consumer groups for certain items and (Magoyorokobu), which takes advantage of a tax exempstrives to provide customer publications and forms that are tion on monetary gifts to grandchildren and other family easy to read, easy to understand, and easy to fill out from members for education purposes; and Okuru Shiawase the customer's perspective. Trust which substitutes for the annual paperwork needed to make gifts to family members while the customer is living. Zutto Anshin Trust and Educational Fund Gift Trust are also offered by BTMU to meet a wider range of customer needs.*1 82 MUFG CSR Report 2014 Society: Product Responsibility >> Relations with Customers ● Educational Fund Gift Trust* 1 1. No cumbersome procedures for gifting property, such which the funds management and payment methods of as preparing contracts and transferring funds, are the entrusted funds can be freely set for customers and MUTB offers the Educational Fund Gift Trust, a trust required. their families. For example, in combination with a testaproduct that supports the donation of educational funds mentary trust, Personal Trust can be set up to begin funds to respond to the needs of customers who want their 2. Gift transactions are recorded. Gifts to more than one management and investment for the family after inheriassets to help with the educational expenses of their person or over multiple years can be handled easily. tance. grandchildren. 3. MUTB sends annual reminders, ensuring that gifting BTMU Membership Organization the Quality Life Club This product complies with the Exemption on Gifts for opportunities are not missed. Customers receive Education in Lump Sum under the FY 2013 revision of notification of recipients' balances, which are a useful The Quality Life Club is a membership organization Japan's tax system, with gifts up to 15 million yen (five reference for future gifts. operated by BTMU which provides services around the million yen for certain gifts) tax free. The recipients are themes of the richness of the mind and heart, physical and limited to children, grandchildren, great grandchildren and MUTB Specified Donation Trust mental health, and economic affluence to help customers other direct descendants under 30 years old. The gifted improve their quality of life. Members receive many funds can be used for school entry fees and tuition, and Specified Donation Trust is an arrangement whereby the benefits including invitations to seminars and events, and for preparatory schools, private tutors, and sports, music, funds entrusted by a customer and their operating profits support services related to travel, health and leisure. painting and other lessons. Because this product can pay are donated over time to non-profit foundations or other up front for educational expenses, parents do not need to recipients designated by the customer. As tax benefits, the MUN Health Care Consultation Services advance their own funds. The bankbook can be personaloperating profits from the trust are not taxed while the ized with the names and handwritten messages of customer can take tax deductions on the portion of the MUN provides services to support customers and their grandparents and other donors, and a photo with their donations that comes from the principal each year. families who require health care or nursing care. These grandchild. services offer health, medicine and nursing telephone MUTB Guardianship System Support Trust consultations by dedicated staff 24 hours a day, 365 days a *1 Educational Fund Gift Trust received first place in 2013 Nikkei Superior year for MUFG Platinum and Gold Prestige Card holders Products and Services Awards Nikkei Veritas Award for Excellence. In February 2012, MUTB launched Guardianship System and other gold card members. MUN also provides Support Trust that is based on examinations by the Family overseas medical treatment consultation, medical institu● Okuru Shiawase Trust Bureau of the General Secretariat of the Supreme Court, tion information and other services to certain card Civil Affairs Bureau at the Ministry of Justice, and the Trust members.*2 Revisions to Japan's inheritance tax system in January Companies Association of Japan. This product is designed 2015, are putting a spotlight on inheritance planning for management of the property of individuals (wards) *2 The services provided vary according to the type of card. strategies such as the gifting of property before death. under the guardian system. It conserves deposits and other property using the trust framework, based on In June 2014, MUTB began offering the Okuru Shiawase instructions issued by family courts. In the trust compenTrust, a new product that facilitates the giving of gifts to sation, no management fees are charged. family members. It is designed to replace the annual paperwork needed to make gifts, and is free of manageMUTB Personal Trust ment fees. The product has the following features: Personal Trust is a made-to-order trust product under 83 MUFG CSR Report 2014 Strategy and Profile >> Third Party Comment Third Party Comment or understatement. a way that contributes to greater corporate value, I would like to add one more point. Customer satisfaction involves The Highlights Edition is formatted to narrow its focus to the level of confidence in products and services provided three areas— Efforts to Improve Customer Satisfaction, by the corporation, but at the same time, that confidence plus the group-wide CSR priority themes of Addressing is supported by the soundness of governance of the Global Environmental Issues, and Nurturing Society’s corporation itself. MUFG's CSR is built upon its Corporate Next Generation —and it describes the features and Vision and Principles of Ethics and Conduct, and by Prof. Yoshihiro Fujii achievements of the past year. The two CSR priority reading the details of the Full Report Edition, a reader will Graduate School of Global themes of global environment and next generation are notice that MUFG sees corporate governance as its Environmental Studies, Sophia University important in terms of the broad geographical obligations highest priority. However, I think it is also desirable to of a global corporation, and in terms of social responsibilprovide information that raises an understanding of ity as a sustainable company. Also, it is noteworthy that governance in the Highlights Edition, which is accessed by For the past several years, I have been reviewing MUFG'S customers are identified as the most influential among many more readers. CSR reports from an external perspective. When a corpothe wide range of stakeholders. The relationship between rate group becomes as large as MUFG, CSR activities a corporation and each stakeholder is not the same. There In July 2014, to strengthen its governance structure, MUFG become increasingly diverse, requiring a major effort to can also be conflicts of interest between different stakeestablished a new Governance Committee, with a majority grasp the big picture. Furthermore, if the report is going to holders. A typical example is the divergence of interests of members coming from outside the group. The knowlbe released externally as a summary of these activities, it is between shareholders, employees, and customers when it edge of this multi-leveled governance structure with four important to have a format that responds to the diverse comes to the distribution of profits. committees—including the Nomination and Compensainterests of readers and recipients, and there must also be tion Committee and other existing committees—is some kind of story to it. The essence of CSR management could be described as important information that will influence the satisfaction of minimizing the conflicts of interest between the diverse not only investors but also customers. Who Are the Stakeholders? stakeholders in society and maximizing the economic pie of profit distribution. If the pie can be expanded, the From that perspective, if we read the Highlights Edition conflicts among stakeholders can naturally be reduced. To and Full Report Edition that have become the regular expand the pie, the key is to increase the scale of business approach in the past several years, we see that the Full activity by attracting more customers and boosting Edition has increased in volume by about 10% from the profitability by improving customer satisfaction levels. previous year, and readers will notice that the overall CSR MUFG’s CSR stories clearly reveal this orientation. activities of the group are becoming well established. I feel it is safe to say that the quantitative and qualitative Evaluation of Governance, and Connection with information presented in each story in the reports—such Investor Relations as detailed data on environmental impacts or employee initiatives—is generally introduced without overstatement As an issue about further raising customer satisfaction in 84 MUFG CSR Report 2014 Strategy and Profile >> Third Party Comment Related to that point is how to incorporate the perspective Integrated reporting is not just about appearing to be of the shareholder, which with the customer is among the integrated. It is also the integration of these kinds of achievemost important stakeholders. The typical shareholder ments. The important thing is to communicate well to invests into corporations whose present share prices are readers the information that is disclosed. Besides this kind undervalued, or corporations that have future prospects of integration, I look forward to seeing further advances in for improving corporate value. Corporations with a how CSR is communicated. consistent management stance that puts customers first can be expected to increase corporate value steadily. However in general, there are many Japanese corporations that fail to link CSR to investor relations (IR) oriented toward shareholders. But if, as stated above, an increase in customer satisfaction leads to an increase in corporate value, CSR also corresponds to the interests of shareholders. The question is how to link or integrate CSR and IR together. Here too I look to MUFG for a leadership role. Integration of Financial and Extra-Financial Matters As I pointed out in my comments last year, the linking and integrating of CSR and IR overlaps with the international trend of integrated reporting, which encourages the merging of financial and extra-financial values. Indeed, in terms of efforts for this kind of integration, MUFG has already made some achievements. A number of international trends are evident in integrated reporting. Among them, the financial industry edition of disclosure standards for extra-financial information in each industry, under the United States’ Sustainable Accounting Standards Board (SASB), calls upon financial institutions to disclose their contributions to business partners' reductions of greenhouse gas emissions through their core businesses, investment and financing. I think it's a good point that captures the essence of the financial industry, but as stated in the Full Report Edition, MUFG was engaged even before FY 2005 in such initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, and has disclosed the outcomes. 85 MUFG CSR Report 2014 Strategy and Profile >> GRI Content Index GRI Content Index The table below indicates the pages in this report that correspond to items indicated in the 3.1 edition of the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines issued by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), which were used as a reference in the preparation of this report. MUFG2014 MUFG2014 MUFG2014 Item Indicator Item Indicator Item Indicator Highlights Ed. Full Ed. Highlights Ed. Full Ed. Highlights Ed. Full Ed. 1. Strategy and Analysis 2.7 Markets served (including geographic 41-43 5-6 3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if breakdown, sectors served, and types any). 1 .1 Statement from the most senior 2 2 of customers/beneficiaries). decision-maker of the organization 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.) 1 (e.g., CEO, chair, or equivalent senior 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization, Annual position) about the relevance of including: Report (F-6 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding Back cover Back cover sustainability to the organization and • Number of employees; F-7), 27 the report or its contents. its strategy. • Net sales (for private sector Report Scope and Boundary organizations) or net revenues (for 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and 3-4, 5, 12-18, 3-4, 7-1 1 public sector organizations); 3.5 Process for defining report content, 1 opportunities. 20-22, 24, • Total capitalization broken down in including: 26-32 terms of debt and equity (for private • Determining materiality; 2. Organizational Profile sector organizations); and • Prioritizing topics within the report; • Quantity of products or services and 2.1 Name of the organization. 1, 41-43 1, 5-6 provided. • Identifying stakeholders the organization expects to use the 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or 12-18, 20-22, 5-6 2.9 Significant changes during the 41-43 Annual report. services. 24, 26, reporting period regarding size, Report 41-43 structure, or ownership including: (157p), 5-6 3.6 Boundary of the report (e.g., 1 • The location of, or changes in countries, divisions, subsidiaries, 2.3 Operational structure of the 41-43 5-6 operations, including facility leased facilities, joint ventures, organization, including main divisions, openings, closings, and expansions; suppliers). See GRI Boundary Protocol operating companies, subsidiaries, and for further guidance. and joint ventures. • Changes in the share capital structure and other capital formation, 3.7 State any specific limitations on the 1, 45-48 2.4 Location of organization's headquarBack cover Back cover scope or boundary of the report. ters. maintenance, and alteration operations (for private sector 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, 1 2.5 Number of countries where the 15-18, 41-43 5-6 organizations). subsidiaries, leased facilities, organization operates, and names of outsourced operations, and other countries with either major operations 2.10 Awards received in the reporting 8, 15, 40 37-38, 50, period. 59, 82-83 entities that can significantly affect or that are specifically relevant to the comparability from period to period sustainability issues covered in the and/or between organizations. 3. Report Parameters report. Report Profile 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. 41-43 1, 5-6 3.1 Reporting period (e.g., fiscal/calendar 1 1 year) for information provided. 86 MUFG CSR Report 2014 Strategy and Profile >> GRI Content Index MUFG2014 MUFG2014 MUFG2014 Item Indicator Item Indicator Item Indicator Highlights Ed. Full Ed. Highlights Ed. Full Ed. Highlights Ed. Full Ed. 3.9 Data measurement techniques and 36, 45-48 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the 15-16 4.9 Procedures of the highest 1, 24 the bases of calculations, including highest governance body is also an governance body for overseeing the assumptions and techniques executive officer (and, if so, their organization's identification and underlying estimations applied to the function within the organization's management of economic, compilation of the indicators and management and the reasons for this environmental, and social other information in the report. arrangement). performance, including relevant risks and opportunities, and adherence or 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any 4.3 For organizations that have a unitary 15-16 compliance with internationally re-statements of information provided board structure, state the number and agreed standards, codes of conduct, in earlier reports, and the reasons for gender of members of the highest and principles. such re-statement (e.g., governance body that are indepenmergers/acquisitions, change of base dent and/or non-executive members. 4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest 8, 24 years/periods, nature of business, governance body's own measurement methods). 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and 15-16 performance, particularly with employees to provide recommendarespect to economic, environmental, 3.1 1 Significant changes from previous 1 tions or direction to the highest and social performance. reporting periods in the scope, governance body. boundary, or measurement methods Commitments to External Initiatives applied in the report. 4.5 Linkage between compensation for 15-16 members of the highest governance 4.1 1 Explanation of whether and how the 17-18, 24 8, 25-26, 34, GRI Content Index body, senior managers, and precautionary approach or principle 39-41, 44 executives (including departure is addressed by the organization. 3.12 Table identifying the location of the This table arrangements), and the organization's Standard Disclosures in the report. performance (including social and 4.12 Externally developed economic, 17-18, 24 8, 25-26, environmental performance). environmental, and social charters, 33-34, Assurance principles, or other initiatives to which 39-41, 44 3.13 Policy and current practice with 17-18 25-26, 34, 4.6 Processes in place for the highest 15-16 the organization subscribes or regard to seeking external assurance 41, 84-85 governance body to ensure conflicts endorses. for the report. If not included in the of interest are avoided. 4.13 Memberships in associations (such as 17-18, 24 8, 25-26, 34, assurance report accompanying the 4.7 Process for determining the 15-16 industry associations) and/or 39-41, 44 sustainability report, explain the composition, qualifications, and national/international advocacy scope and basis of any external expertise of the members of the organizations in which the organizaassurance provided. Also explain the highest governance body and its tion: relationship between the reporting committees, including any consider• Has positions in governance bodies; organization and the assurance ation of gender and other indicators • Participates in projects or commitprovider(s). of diversity. tees; • Provides substantive funding 4. Governance, Commitments, and Engagement 4.8 Internally developed statements of 3-4, 5, 3, 4, 7-8, beyond routine membership dues; or Governance mission or values, codes of conduct, 34-36 12-14, 19, • Views membership as strategic. and principles relevant to economic, 22-23, 4.1 Governance structure of the 15-16 environmental, and social 28-29, Stakeholder Engagement organization, including committees performance and the status of their 30-31, under the highest governance body implementation. 32-33, 52, 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged 27 responsible for specific tasks, such as 60, 61, 71, by the organization. setting strategy or organizational 73 4.15 Basis for identification and selection 27 oversight. of stakeholders with whom to engage. 87 MUFG CSR Report 2014 Strategy and Profile >> GRI Content Index MUFG2014 MUFG2014 MUFG2014 Item Indicator Item Indicator Item Indicator Highlights Ed. Full Ed. Highlights Ed. Full Ed. Highlights Ed. Full Ed. 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder 27-36 27 EC7 Procedures for local hiring and Water engagement, including frequency of core proportion of senior management engagement by type and by hired from the local community at EN8 Total water withdrawal by source. 45-46, 48 stakeholder group. locations of significant operation. core 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have 27-36 27 Indirect Economic Impacts EN9 Water sources significantly affected been raised through stakeholder add by withdrawal of water. engagement, and how the organizaEC8 Development and impact of 12-18, 20-22, 1 1, 61-70 core infrastructure investments and 24, 26-36 EN10 Percentage and total volume of water tion has responded to those key add recycled and reused. topics and concerns, including services provided primarily for public through its reporting. benefit through commercial, in-kind, Biodiversity or pro bono engagement. 5. Management Approach and Performance Indicators EN1 1 Location and size of land owned, 44 EC9 Understanding and describing 17-18 41 core leased, managed in, or adjacent to, Economic Performance Indicators add significant indirect economic protected areas and areas of high impacts, including the extent of biodiversity value outside protected Management Approach 28-29 impacts. areas. Economic Performance Environmental Performance Indicators EN12 Description of significant impacts of 44 EC1 Direct economic value generated and Annual Management Approach 12-18, 20-22, 32-34 core activities, products, and services on core distributed, including revenues, Report (F-6 24 biodiversity in protected areas and operating costs, employee compenF-7), 70 areas of high biodiversity value sation, donations and other Materials outside protected areas. community investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital EN1 Materials used by weight or volume. EN13 Habitats protected or restored. 44 providers and governments. core add EC2 Financial implications and other risks 12-18, 20-22, 7-1 1 EN2 Percentage of materials used that are EN14 Strategies, current actions, and future 33, 44 core and opportunities for the organiza24 core recycled input materials. add plans for managing impacts on tion's activities due to climate change. biodiversity. Energy EC3 Coverage of the organization's Annual EN15 Number of IUCN Red List species and EN3 Direct energy consumption by 45-46, 48 add national conservation list species with core defined benefit plan obligations. Report core primary energy source. (F-73) habitats in areas affected by EN4 Indirect energy consumption by 45-46, 48 operations, by level of extinction risk. EC4 Significant financial assistance core primary source. core received from government. Emissions, Effluents, and Waste EN5 Energy saved due to conservation 48-51 EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse 1 1, 35-36, Market Presence add and efficiency improvements. core gas emissions by weight. 45-46 EC5 Range of ratios of standard entry level EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient 12-18, 20-22, 35-51 add wage by gender compared to local EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse 45-46 add or renewable energy based products 24 core gas emissions by weight. minimum wage at significant and services, and reductions in locations of operation. energy requirements as a result of EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas 49-51 EC6 Policy, practices, and proportion of these initiatives. add emissions and reductions achieved. core spending on locally-based suppliers EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy 35-36 EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting at significant locations of operation. add consumption and reductions core substances by weight. achieved. 88 MUFG CSR Report 2014 Strategy and Profile >> GRI Content Index MUFG2014 MUFG2014 MUFG2014 Item Indicator Item Indicator Item Indicator Highlights Ed. Full Ed. Highlights Ed. Full Ed. Highlights Ed. Full Ed. EN20 NOx, SOx, and other significant air Overall LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, core emissions by type and weight. core lost days, and absenteeism, and EN30 Total environmental protection 1 1, 48 number of work-related fatalities by EN21 Total water discharge by quality and 45-46 add expenditures and investments by region and by gender. core destination. type. LA8 Education, training, counseling, 55-56 EN22 Total weight of waste by type and Social Performance Indicators core prevention, and risk-control programs core disposal method. in place to assist workforce members, Labor Practices and Decent Work EN23 Total number and volume of their families, or community members Management Approach 38-40 52 regarding serious diseases. core significant spills. EN24 Weight of transported, imported, Employment LA9 Health and safety topics covered in add exported, or treated waste deemed add formal agreements with trade unions. LA1 Total workforce by employment type, 52-53 hazardous under the terms of the core employment contract, and region. Training and Education Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage of transported LA2 Total number and rate of new 52-53 LA10 Average hours of training per year per waste shipped internationally. core employee hires and employee core employee by gender, and by turnover by age group, gender, and employee category. EN25 Identity, size, protected status, and region. add biodiversity value of water bodies and LA11 Programs for skills management and 56-57 related habitats significantly affected LA3 Benefits provided to full-time 54-59 add lifelong learning that support the by the reporting organization's add employees that are not provided to continued employability of employdischarges of water and runoff. temporary or part-time employees, by ees and assist them in managing significant locations of operation. career endings. Product and Services LA15 Return to work and retention rates LA12 Percentage of employees receiving 56-57 EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental 12-18, 20-22, 11, 37-44 core after parental leave, by gender. add regular performance and career core impacts of products and services, 24 development reviews, by gender. and extent of impact mitigation. Labor/Management Relations Diversity and Equal Opportunity EN27 Percentage of products sold and their LA4 Percentage of employees covered by core packaging materials that are core collective bargaining agreements. LA13 Composition of governance bodies 1 1, 58-59 reclaimed by category. core and breakdown of employees per LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding employee category according to Compliance core operational changes, including gender, age group, minority group whether it is specified in collective membership, and other indicators of EN28 Monetary value of significant fines No violation No violation agreements. core and total number of non-monetary diversity. sanctions for noncompliance with Occupational Health and Safety Equal Remuneration for Women and Men environmental laws and regulations. LA6 Percentage of total workforce LA14 Ratio of basic salary and remuneraTransport add represented in formal joint core tion of women to men by employee management–worker health and category, by significant locations of EN29 Significant environmental impacts of 45-46, 48, safety committees that help monitor add transporting products and other 51 operation. and advise on occupational health goods and materials used for the and safety programs. organization's operations, and transporting members of the workforce. 89 MUFG CSR Report 2014 Strategy and Profile >> GRI Content Index MUFG2014 MUFG2014 MUFG2014 Item Indicator Item Indicator Item Indicator Highlights Ed. Full Ed. Highlights Ed. Full Ed. Highlights Ed. Full Ed. Human Rights Forced and Compulsory Labor SO10 Prevention and mitigation measures core implemented in operations with Management Approach 17-18 22, 25, 41, HR7 Operations and significant suppliers significant potential or actual 60 core identified as having significant risk for negative impacts on local communiincidents of forced or compulsory ties. labor, and measures to contribute to Investment and Procurement Practices the elimination of all forms of forced Corruption HR1 Percentage and total number of or compulsory labor. SO2 Percentage and total number of core significant investment agreements Security Practices core business units analyzed for risks and contracts that include clauses related to corruption. incorporating human rights concerns, HR8 Percentage of security personnel 60 or that have undergone human rights add trained in the organization's policies SO3 Percentage of employees trained in 18 screening. or procedures concerning aspects of core organization's anti-corruption policies human rights that are relevant to and procedures. HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers, 30-31 operations. core contractors and other business SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents partners that have undergone human Indigenous Rights core of corruption. rights screening, and actions taken. HR9 Total number of incidents of Public Policy HR3 Total hours of employee training on 60 add violations involving rights of core policies and procedures concerning indigenous people and actions taken. SO5 Public policy positions and participa12-13, 16, 12-14, 25-26, aspects of human rights that are core tion in public policy development and 33-36 38-43 relevant to operations, including the Assessment lobbying. percentage of employees trained. HR10 Percentage and total number of SO6 Total value of financial and in-kind core operations that have been subject to add contributions to political parties, Non-discrimination human rights reviews and/or impact politicians, and related institutions by HR4 Total number of incidents of assessments. country. core discrimination and corrective actions taken. Remediation Anti-Competitive Behavior Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining HR11 Number of grievances related to SO7 Total number of legal actions for core human rights filed, addressed and add anticompetitive behavior, anti-trust, HR5 Operations and significant suppliers resolved through formal grievance and monopoly practices and their core identified in which the right to mechanisms. outcomes. exercise freedom of association and Society Compliance collective bargaining may be violated or at significant risk, and actions taken Management Approach 27-36 61 SO8 Monetary value of significant fines to support these rights. add and total number of non-monetary Local Community sanctions for noncompliance with Child Labor SO1 Percentage of operations with 29-30 67 laws and regulations. HR6 Operations and significant suppliers core implemented local community core identified as having significant risk for Product Responsibility engagement, impact assessments, incidents of child labor, and measures and development programs. Management Approach 8-10 20-23, 71-73 taken to contribute to the effective abolition of child labor. SO9 Operations with significant potential core or actual negative impacts on local communities. 90 MUFG CSR Report 2014 Strategy and Profile >> GRI Content Index MUFG2014 MUFG2014 MUFG2014 Item Indicator Item Indicator Item Indicator Highlights Ed. Full Ed. Highlights Ed. Full Ed. Highlights Ed. Full Ed. Customer Health Customer and SafetyPrivacy Customer Privacy Product and Service Impact (Performance Indicators) PR 1 Life cycle stages in which health and 8-10 20-23, 71-73 PR8 Total number of substantiated Product Portfolio core safety impacts of products and add complaints regarding breaches of services are assessed for improvecustomer privacy and losses of FS6 Percentage of the portfolio for Annual ment, and percentage of significant customer data. core business lines by specific region, size Report products and services categories (e.g. micro/SME/large) and by sector. (106p) subject to such procedures. Compliance FS7 Monetary value of products and PR2 Total number of incidents of PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for core services designed to deliver a specific add non-compliance with regulations and core noncompliance with laws and social benefit for each business line voluntary codes concerning health regulations concerning the provision broken down by purpose. and safety impacts of products and and use of products and services. FS8 Monetary value of products and services during their life cycle, by core services designed to deliver a specific type of outcomes. environmental benefit for each business line broken down by Product and Service Labeling Financial Services Sector Supplement (2008) purpose. PR3 Type of product and service 71-83 Product and Service Impact core information required by procedures, Audit (Financial Services Sector Specific Disclosure on Management Approach) and percentage of significant FS9 Coverage and frequency of audits to 17, 18, 41 products and services subject to such FS1 Policies with specific environmental 3-4, 5 7-8, 22-23, core assess implementation of environinformation requirements. core and social components applied to 25-26, mental and social policies and risk business lines. 32-34 assessment procedures. PR4 Total number of incidents of add non-compliance with regulations and FS2 Procedures for assessing and 8, 22-23, Active Ownership voluntary codes concerning product core screening environmental and social 25-26 and service information and labeling, risks in business lines. FS10 Percentage and number of compaby type of outcomes. core nies held in the institution's portfolio FS3 Processes for monitoring clients' 17-18 25, 41 with which the reporting organization PR5 Practices related to customer 9 1 1, 74-78 core implementation of and compliance has interacted on environmental or add satisfaction, including results of with environmental and social social issues. surveys measuring customer requirements included in agreements satisfaction. or transactions. FS1 1 Percentage of assets subject to core positive and negative environmental Marketing Communications FS4 Process(es) for improving staff 17-18, 38-39 8, 56-57 or social screening. core competency to implement the PR6 Programs for adherence to laws, 8-10 71-78, 82 environmental and social policies and FS12 Voting polic(ies) applied to environcore standards, and voluntary codes procedures as applied to business core mental or social issues for shares over related to marketing communications, lines. which the reporting organization including advertising, promotion, and holds the right to vote shares or sponsorship. FS5 Interactions with 12-18, 32-51 advises on voting. core clients/investees/business partners 20-22, 24 PR7 Total number of incidents of regarding environmental and social add non-compliance with regulations and risks and opportunities. voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship by type of outcomes. 91 MUFG CSR Report 2014 Strategy and Profile >> GRI Content Index MUFG2014 Item Indicator Highlights Ed. Full Ed. Society (Performance Indicators) Community FS13 Access points in low-populated or 80-81 core economically disadvantaged areas by type. FS14 Initiatives to improve access to 34 13, 80-81 core financial services for disadvantaged people. Product Responsibility (Management Approach) FS15 Policies for the fair design and sale of 8-10 18-19, 71-73 core financial products and services. Product Responsibility (Performance Indicators) Product and Service Labeling FS16 Initiatives to enhance financial literacy 27-28, 31-32 61-63, core by type of beneficiary. 65-68 92 MUFG CSR Report 2014 Strategy and Profile >> Comparative Table with ISO 26000 Core Subjects Comparative Table with ISO 26000 Core Subjects Our engagements are shown together with the corresponding seven core subjects of ISO 26000 (Guidance on Social Responsibility). Core Subjects of Social Responsibility MUFG2014 Core Subjects of Social Responsibility MUFG2014 Issues Issues (6.2-6.8) Highlights Ed. Full Ed. (6.2-6.8) Highlights Ed. Full Ed. 6.2 Organizational governance 1 . Organizational governance 3-4, 5 3-4, 7-26 6.7 Consumer issues 1 . Fair marketing, factual and 8-10 20-21, unbiased information and fair 22-23, 6.3 Human rights 1 . Due diligence 17-18 22, 25, 41, contractual practices 71-83 2. Human rights risk situations 60 2. Protecting consumers' health and Note: Linked to the UN Global 3. Avoidance of complicity safety Compact Principles 1-6 4. Resolving grievances 3. Sustainable consumption 5. Discrimination and vulnerable 4. Consumer service, support, and groups complaint and dispute resolution 6. Civil and political rights 5. Consumer data protection and 7. Economic, social and cultural rights privacy 8. Fundamental principles and rights 6. Access to essential services at work 7. Education and awareness 6.4 Labour practices 1 . Employment and employment 38-40 52-59 6.8 Community involvement and 1 . Community involvement 27-36 12-14, 61-70 relationships development 2. Education and culture Note: Linked to the UN Global 2. Conditions of work and social 3. Employment creation and skills Compact Principles 3-6 protection development 3. Social dialogue 4. Technology development and 4. Health and safety at work access 5. Human development and training 5. Wealth and income creation in the workplace 6. Health 6.5 The environment 1 . Prevention of pollution 12-24 32-51 7. Social investment 2. Sustainable resource use Note: Linked to the UN Global 3. Climate change mitigation and Compact Principles 7-9 adaptation 4. Protection of the environment, biodiversity and restoration of natural habitats 6.6 Fair operating practices 1 . Anti-corruption 18-19, 30 2. Responsible political involvement Note: Linked to the UN Global 3. Fair competition Compact Principles 3-10 4. Promoting social responsibility in the value chain 5. Respect for property rights 93 MUFG CSR Report 2014 BTMU supports Education for This report has obtained Color Universal MUFG on Facebook Sustainable Development (ESD), Design Organization (CUD) certification. MUFG has a Facebook page a global initiative to include key CUD is based on the universal design focused on our CSR activities. sustainable development issues approach, which aims to create Please check us out and don't https://www.facebook.com/MUFG.CSR in teaching and learning. publications that are easy to view and forget to Like us! read by as many persons as possible. Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group, Inc. CSR Promotion Division 2-7-1, Marunouchi, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 100-8330, Japan Tel: +81-3-3240-8111 www.mufg.jp/english (Issued December 2014)
