Who We Are NRS International is a family-run company that offers innovative products to relief and developing markets. We are an industry leader in designing and manufacturing core relief, public health and solar products. We aim to improve the everyday lives of people in need through providing cost-effective aid essentials. NRS International is the parent company to three subsidiaries; all linked to the humanitarian aid and international development sector. NRS Relief supplies core relief items and multi-purpose shelters for the humanitarian community. TANA Netting is an expert in providing long-lasting insecticidal nets to combat malaria and other vector-borne diseases. Flexiway Solar Solutions provides fit-for-purpose solar products. All three subsidiaries work across the globe, supported by our headquarters in Dubai, United Arab Emirates, and through our manufacturing arm, H. Sheikh Noor-ud-Din & Sons (HSNDS), in Lahore, Pakistan. Our charitable arm, the Bilqees Sarwar Foundation, provides charitable donations to public health and education projects in Pakistan. Our Progress We focused our efforts on building internal capacity through hiring four full-time and one part-time staff in our Marketing and Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) and Product Development Office which has strengthened our commitment to research, product development and new production procedures. This effort has resulted in new product lines, a reduction in waste and material consumption, and increased the overall sustainability of our business operations. Our CSR Office has committed to utilizing the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) framework to ensure adherence to and identification of sustainable business practices and to provide quantifiable results in FY 2015. Our advancement towards United Nations Global Compact is outlined below. For the purpose of this report, we have indicated a distinction between NRS International (which encompasses NRS Relief, TANA Netting, and Flexiway Solar Solutions subsidiaries) and HSNDS (our factory in Lahore, Pakistan). Principle Assessment, Implementation Measurement of Outcomes Goals for 2015 Policy & Goals Human Rights Internal Code of Conduct explicitly Our Legal Office ensures that our We signed the UN’s Business Reopen the Bilqees Sarwar Free mentions the respect and business adheres to the protection Action Pledge on Ebola Elimination Hospital. 1.) Business should support and protection of internationally of human rights and we apply these and continue to supply West Africa respect the protection of proclaimed human rights. principles in dealing with joint with our long-lasting insecticidal Explore partnerships with a noninternationally proclaimed ventures, partners, agents, nets and medical aid structures to governmental for product research human rights Prioritize innovation to create costcontractors, and in our day-to-day improve the overall health of to stop Gender-Based Violence in effective products that alleviate operations. people living in infected humanitarian settings. 2.) Make sure that they are not suffering and builds resiliency in communities. complicit in human rights developing communities. We participated in a research and Commitment to GRI reporting. abuses development project with the We developed fire retardant core Provide free quality health care to United Nations High Commissioner relief items and shared this all HSNDS employees and the for Refugees, International solution to the industry. Read more greater community through our Committee of the Red Cross and about our innovation here. free hospital in Lahore, Pakistan. International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies to develop fire-retardant and costeffective temporary shelters. We are refurbishing the Bilqees Sarwar Free Hospital in Lahore, Pakistan. Labour Principles At NRS International and HSNDS we Management implements an open At HSNDS’s female unit, we Commitment to GRI reporting. fully implement and adhere to local door policy for monitoring, continue to empower our female 3.) Business should uphold the labour laws. reporting and eliminating all forms employees and currently employ Certification of SA 8000: 2008. freedom of association and of harassment and/or abuse. 284 women (232 are permanent the effective recognition of We prioritise diversity and staff members, 40 are contractors, the right to collective inclusion in our workforce. We took robust efforts to improve and 12 are in management). bargaining the safety measure polices at Our Human Resources Offices have HSNDS. At NRS International, we employ 43 4.) The Elimination of all forms of a zero tolerance for child labour staff members (56% are women) forced and compulsory labour and support the elimination of all who speak 19 different languages forms of forced and compulsory and who represent over 14 5.) The effective abolition of child labour. countries. labour At HSNDS, we have robust safety HSNDS held a series of safety 6.) The elimination of and security procedures. trainings for our Total Management discrimination in respect of Assurance and Quality Teams, employment and occupation At HSNDS, we support the which resulted in new fire safety upholding of the freedom of procedures and first aid association and the recognition of equipment. the right to collective bargaining according to the local laws. HSNDS is certified in Social Accountability (SA) 8000: 2008, which includes our efforts to (1) protect against the exploitation of minors, (2) guarantee the health and safety in our workplaces, and (3) respect for human and workers’ rights. HSNDS certification by SGS is valid from March 2011. Environmental Principles At both NRS International and Both NRS International and HSNDS TANA Netting reduced production Senior management has prioritized HSNDS, we continuously review began introducing Systems, waste by 4-5%. waste management as our highest 7.) Business should support a and improve our efforts to Applications & Products (SAP) manufacturing priority. precautionary approach to minimize our impact on the software to streamline our NRS Relief began manufacturing environment challenges environment. production. new products from recycled Continue to implement the SAP granules. Our tarpaulins contain 5incrementally for the next 3-5 8.) Undertake initiatives to We began exploring partnerships 7% less raw materials and have years. promote greater for an energy recovery project for zero waste during production. environmental responsibility TANA Netting. Initiate a life cycle assessment on HSDNS is ISO 14001: 2004 certified all our products. 9.) Encourage the development HSNDS created an internal water and meets the requirements for and diffusion of recycling and purification system, environmental management for Recertification of ISO 14001: 2004. environmental-friendly which was previously outsourced, the manufacturing and exporting of technology and now recycles all production tents and canvas. Certification is Commitment to GRI reporting. waste water. valid from 12 December 2012 to 02 February 2015. Anti-Corruption Principles Both NRS International and HSNDS Our teams perform due diligence Senior Management and Legal Creation of new Human Resource strongly condemn any form of when vetting new business Office conducted a series of Employee Handbook. 10.) Businesses should work corruption and have a series of ventures, operational systems, and background checks and financial against corruption in all its policy and procedures to ensure new agreements to ensure viability audits. Commitment to GRI reporting. forms, including extortion and employee and company and transparent business practices. bribery. compliance. Legal Office conducted two Our Code of Conduct prohibits trainings for new staff and agents promising, offering, and/or giving on anti-corruption anything of value directly or indirectly (e.g. through an intermediary such as agents, business consultants, etc.), in order to obtain an improper advantage and/or to influence official action. Other certifications include: HSNDS is ISO 9001: 2008 certified for the manufacturing and export of tents plastic sheeting/ tarpaulins, synthetic blankets, water containers and insecticidal mosquito nets. The certificate is valid from 11 September 2016 until 12 August 2016.
