Building Resilient and Sustainable Urban Communities 2014 Sustainable Development Report Table of Contents 9 Ensuring Sustainability is Fully Embedded in Our Business 3 Company Snapshot 19 6 Message to Our Stakeholders 9 Ensuring Sustainability is Fully Embedded in Our Business 11 New Board-level Sustainability Committee 14 Our Redefined Sustainability Model Providing 17 Sustainability Core KPIs Update and 2020 Goals Resilient and Efficient 19 Providing Resilient and Efficient Building Solutions Building Solutions 21 Providing Sustainable Products, Solutions and Services 28 Implementing Resilient and Low Impact Infrastructure 31 Delivering Solutions for Affordable and Efficient Buildings 34 Implementing a High-Impact Social Strategy 36 Promoting the Development of Sustainable Communities 34 40 Creating Social and Inclusive Business Opportunities Implementing 45 Generating Empowerment, Diversity and Capacity-Building a High-Impact Social Strategy 48 Pursuing Environmental Excellence for Responsible Growth 50 Optimizing Our Carbon Footprint 48 54 From Waste to Fuel 58 Minimizing Air Emissions and Enhancing Our Environmental Management 61 Conserving Land, Biodiversity and Water Pursuing 67 Embedding Our Core Values into Every Action Environmental Excellence 69 Placing Health and Safety First for Responsible Growth 74 Satisfied Customers and Responsible Suppliers 77 Engaging and Retaining Our Talent 67 81 Strengthening Business Ethics, Compliance and Transparency 87 Enhancing our Engagement with Stakeholders to Create Shared Value 91 Our Performance in Detail Embedding Our Core Values into Every Action 99 Sustainability Credentials 100 Advisory Panel Members and Statement 103 PwC’s Limited Assurance Report 104 About This Report 105 GRI as the Cornerstone for Robust Reporting 87 Enhancing our Engagement with Stakeholders to Create Shared Value 2 Table of To Our Our Building Social Enviromental Values Into Stakeholder Additional Contents Stakeholders Business Solutions Strategy Excellence Actions Engagement Information Company Snapshot More than 94 56 Founded in Mexico in 1906, CEMEX, 44,000 employees worldwide million tons/ year cement production million cubic meters of ready-mix concrete is a global building materials capacity produced annually company that provides high quality products and reliable services to customers and communities. 55 Sales by product (%) 168 million tons aggregates cement plants plus 12 with minority 1,736 ready-mix 16 annual production level participation concrete plants Aggregates 45 Cement 39 Ready-mix concrete 341 aggregate quarries 233 land-distribution centers 63 marine terminals Sales by region (%) 50+ 2014 Global Operations 4 countries 11 Asia 20 Northern Europe 12.4 10,000 where CEMEX has Mediterranean Mexico presence and 100+ USA 17.1 9,752 Mediterranean 17.2 3,815 Asia 5.7 1,138 with trade relations 27 Northern Europe 24 Mexico 29.3 9,854 USA cement production capacity 14 South, Central America and the Caribbean (SCAC) (million metric tons/year) SCAC 12.0 6,272 employees Other 3,410 (including Corporate) 3 Table of To Our Our Building Social Enviromental Values Into Stakeholder Additional Contents Stakeholders Business Solutions Strategy Excellence Actions Engagement Information Financial Highlights In millions of US dollars1, except per-ADS data 20143 20133 % Variation 1 For the reader´s convenience figures are presented in US dollars. For statements of operations accounts, these Net sales 15,708 15,227 3 figures result from translating the local currency amounts into US dollars at the average exchange rate for the year, Operating Earnings before other expenses, net 1,659 1,518 9 which approximates a convenience translation of the Operating EBITDA 2,740 2,643 4 Mexican peso results for 2014 and 2013 using the average Controlling interest net loss (507) (843) 40 exchange rates of the year of 13.37 MXN/US$ and 12.85 MXN/US$, respectively. For balance sheet accounts, Loss per ADS2 (0.39) (0.71) 45 US dollar figures result from translating the local currency Free cash flow after maintenance capital expenditures 401 (89) N/A amounts into US dollars at the closing exchange rate for Total assets 34,936 38,018 (8) the year, which approximates a convenience translation of the Mexican peso amounts at the end of each year using Total debt plus perpetual notes 16,291 17,470 (7) the end-of-year exchange rate of 14.74 MXN/US$ and Total controlling stockholders1 equity 8,894 10,221 (13) 13.05 MXN/US$, respectively 2 Based on an average of 1,256 and 1,170 million American Depositary Shares (ADSs) for 2014 and 2013, respectively 3 Figures are under IFRS Direct Economic Impacts IFRS 1 Excludes sale of assets In millions of US dollars 2014 2013 2012 2 Excludes depreciation and amortization 3 Wages and benefits include non-operational and operational Customers: Net sales1 15,708 15,227 14,984 employees Suppliers: Cost of sales and operating expenses2 10,627 10,205 10,082 4 Capital expenditure for maintenance and expansion Employees and their families: Wages and benefits3 2,341 2,378 2,278 5 Donations as percentage of pre-tax income Investments: CAPEX4 plus working capital 716 813 837 6 Dividends paid in cash Creditors: Net financial expense 1,338 1,423 1,401 Government: Taxes 558 511 393 Communities: Donations5 (1.08%) (0.56%) (0.54%) Shareholders: Dividends6 0 0 0 Others (84) 102 2 Free cash flow 211 (206) (10) Net loss before taxes (124) (265) (403) 4 Table of To Our Our Building Social Enviromental Values Into Stakeholder Additional Contents Stakeholders Business Solutions Strategy Excellence Actions Engagement Information Product Portfolio Services and Solutions Concrete Pavements: Cement: Our pavement solutions include Cement is the main ingredient in conventional concrete pavement, ready-mix concrete. CEMEX offers a short slabs pavement, roller portfolio of high-quality branded cement compacted concrete, concrete products, including Gray Ordinary overlay/whitetopping, cement treated Portland Cement, White Portland base and soil cement. Cement, Masonry or Mortar, Oil-well Cement, and Blended Cement. Aggregates: Building Solutions: Materials such as stone, sand and gravel Development of customized energyare the primary ingredients in ready-mix efficient building solutions and concrete. Additional aggregates include affordable housing solutions such as asphalt and mortar. ICF, EPS panels, monolithic cast in place, and other. Ready-mix concrete: Made from a mixture of cement, aggregates, water and admixtures, Green Building Services: ready-mix concrete is an extremely Bioclimatic architecture and durable building material that can be engineering, modeling of buildings cast into many different shapes. energy performance, building certification (e.g., LEED, BREEAM, ecoperating™). Other related products: Includes granulated blast furnace slag, gypsum, fly ash, asphalt, concrete blocks, roof tiles, architectural products, concrete pipes and other precast For more information about our products such as concrete floors, box company, brands and financial culverts, bridges, drainage basins, performance, please visit our barriers and parking curbs. corporate website at www.cemex.com 5 Table of To Our Our Building Social Enviromental Values Into Stakeholder Additional Contents Stakeholders Business Solutions Strategy Excellence Actions Engagement Information Building Resilient and Sustainable Urban Communities Dear fellow Stakeholders: redefinition of our sustainability model built around two key inputs: the evaluation of the major global societal challenges to which CEMEX can During 2014 CEMEX took important steps to evolve our approach to contribute and the sustainability-related concerns of our stakeholders. sustainability and to assure that our commitments are fully integrated not only in our business strategy, but also in our daily activities around the world. Today, half of the global population lives As the world’s largest concrete producer and a leading supplier of in cities, and the UN estimates that around building solutions, we know that each choice we make directly impacts 180,000 people are being added to that the planet. That’s why at CEMEX, we make every effort to support urban population every day. At this rate, the development needs of society in a resource-constrained world – more than 6 billion people will live in cities enhancing our products, optimizing our environmental footprint and contributing to the quality of life of the communities in which we operate. by 2050. To better understand that scale, imagine the entire global population in year One of the main drivers of our strategy is ensuring that sustainability 2000 living only in urban centers. is fully embedded in every aspect of our business. To achieve this, we created a Board-level Sustainability Committee that evaluates and This dynamic creates challenges in building hard infrastructure such as guides all our sustainability efforts. Indeed, sustainability is a pillar of our buildings, roads, bridges, water systems and power grids, as well as corporate culture. We know that the more sustainable our operations, in establishing soft infrastructure which includes governance, policing, the more we will grow, reduce costs, increase our social relevance, schools, and healthcare. These challenges and the expected growth strengthen our license to operate, and reduce risks. In other words, we in urbanization will be a major driver of global energy consumption and know that sustainability creates value for our shareholders. greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions over the next decades. In short, the battle for a more sustainable future will largely be won or lost in the cities To ensure we optimize our performance and the impact of our efforts, we of the future and the infrastructure which supports them. CEMEX is well are always evaluating our priorities and approach. In 2014, this led to the positioned to contribute to winning that battle. 6 Table of To Our Our Building Social Enviromental Values Into Stakeholder Additional Contents Stakeholders Business Solutions Strategy Excellence Actions Engagement Information We are providers of urban solutions, supplying building materials, services and expertise that meet the most demanding standards of construction and sustainability performance. CEMEX promotes an integrated approach to urban development where vertical construction, land use, mobility, water management and bioclimatic design combine to improve the livability and economic success of cities while reducing resource consumption and protecting the environment. In these efforts we work closely with governments as well as non-governmental organizations around the world. During 2014, we completed almost 600 infrastructure projects representing more than 8 million square meters of concrete pavements in 14 countries, including highways, mass transit projects, airport runways and city streets. Our infrastructure efforts also represent an attractive business for the Rogelio Zambrano Fernando A. González company; generating US $235 millon in sales. Chairman of the Board Chief Executive Officer We have also established ourselves as leaders in constructing high-quality, In 2014, we revised CEMEX’s global Health & Safety policy, which affordable and efficient buildings, and delivering industrialized, energynow defines our commitment and our ambition to ensure the safety efficient and vertical housing solutions. In 2014, CEMEX contributed to the of everyone involved with and affected by our operations. While construction of 3,150 units in 12 countries, equivalent to the construction we reduced our employee Lost-Time Injury (LTI) frequency rate by of more than 180,000 m2 of living space. Our building and housing 33 percent in 2014 compared to 2013, we still have much work to solutions represented US $200 million in sales for the year. do. Regrettably, there were 27 fatalities involving 4 employees, 17 contractors and 6 third-parties. The loss of any individual associated Since 1998, our corporate social programs have created significant with our operations is completely unacceptable. Our personal value for CEMEX and our stakeholders. By promoting inclusive, commitment is to achieve ZERO injuries in all of our operations globally: resilient, eco-friendly and self-sufficient communities we contribute health and safety are CEMEX’s highest business priority. to the sustainability of our business. Our focus on high impact social initiatives has benefited almost 7 million people. At the same time, we CEMEX is also committed to reducing understand that our responsibility includes the entire value chain of our products. For this reason, in 2014 we took our supplier sustainability our direct and indirect greenhouse gas evaluation program one step further by hiring a recognized international emissions, which contribute to global climate organization to ensure the promotion and recognition of sustainable change, and position the company for a lowpractices across our supply chain. carbon future. 7 Table of To Our Our Building Social Enviromental Values Into Stakeholder Additional Contents Stakeholders Business Solutions Strategy Excellence Actions Engagement Information In 2014, we avoided around 7.5 million tons of CO2 due to a reduction of about 23 percent in specific net CO2 emissions compared to our 1990 baseline. An important part of this improvement was due to our continuing implementation of alternative fuel use in our plants; in 2014 94 percent of our active cement plants consumed alternative fuels, nine of them have surpassed a 50 percent alternative fuel rate and five exceeded 65 percent. Overall, alternative fuels represented close to 28 percent of our fuel mix including biomass, refuse-derived fuels, tires and other materials. This achievement represented annual savings of US $130 million. Additionally, our renewable energy projects and supply agreements represent around 15 percent from our total power consumption. We also registered two new Verified Carbon Standard projects last year. At the end of 2014, our carbon offsets projects portfolio included 23 registered initiatives with the combined potential to reduce CO2 emissions by almost three million tons annually. While new challenges continue to emerge, we remain committed to setting ambitious targets to keep our company moving toward a sustainable future. In parallel with the redefinition of our sustainability model we have also updated our core economic, environmental, social and governance key performance indicators along with their 2020 targets. Fundamentally, we believe that resilient infrastructure, inclusive and safe cities, biodiversity protection and urgent action to combat climate change are critical to the health and welfare of our company and of the planet. As you read this report, you will find that CEMEX is deeply committed to meeting these challenges and contributing to a sustainable future. On behalf of CEMEX’s Board of Directors, our management team and our employees, we want to thank the members of our Global Sincerely, Sustainability Functional Network and our external Advisory Panel for their valuable contributions. We also want to thank you, as well as the organizations and communities we work with on a daily basis, for taking an interest in the sustainable development of our company and in the solutions we provide. | Rogelio Zambrano Fernando A. González Chairman of the Board Chief Executive Officer 8 Table of To Our Our Building Social Enviromental Values Into Stakeholder Additional Contents Stakeholders Business Solutions Strategy Excellence Actions Engagement Information 1 / Ensuring Sustainability is Fully Embedded in Our Business 2020 Ambitions CEMEX Sustainability Model was updated e g Sustainability Our core Sustainability KPIs and is based on 4 main e s Committee created were redefined and linked pillars: Economic, to ambitious 2020 targets Social, Environmental at Board-level and Governance 9 Table of To Our Our Building Social Enviromental Values Into Stakeholder Additional Contents Stakeholders Business Solutions Strategy Excellence Actions Engagement Information Urbanization is creating a number of challenges that relate to the well-being of our society and the planet. These challenges are physical, societal and environmental in nature and demand urban infrastructure and buildings that are adaptable, resilient and sustainable. As a global company, we understand that our actions have an impact and that we can make a positive difference in the communities where we operate. Through our high-quality products, comprehensive services and innovative solutions, we’re supporting sustainable development in a resource-constrained world. To secure positive results, it’s important that everyone at CEMEX is fully supportive. That’s why we strive to effectively communicate our sustainability-related programs and initiatives to our Board of Directors through a dedicated Sustainability Committee reporting directly to them. With their support, we can better promote and align our efforts both internally and externally to ensure we maximize our results. 10 Table of To Our Our Building Social Enviromental Values Into Stakeholder Additional Contents Stakeholders Business Solutions Strategy Excellence Actions Engagement Information 1.1 / New Board-Level Sustainability Committee After experiencing senior-level organizational changes and a redefined management structure, the company decided to formalize a Sustainability Committee that, in line with global During 2014, four Committees reported corporate governance practices, reports directly to the directly to our Board. Board of Directors along with the Audit, Corporate Practices However, on March 2015 and Finance Committees. the Corporate Practices and Finance Committee were integrated into a single one. 11 Table of To Our Our Building Social Enviromental Values Into Stakeholder Additional Contents Stakeholders Business Solutions Strategy Excellence Actions Engagement Information Chairman and Board of Directors Armando J. García Segovia 1 The Sustainability Committee meets Roberto L. Zambrano Villareal quarterly to assess and guide CEMEX Ian C. Amstrong Zambrano in its sustainability efforts and is Ramiro G. Villareal Morales 2 responsible for: Audit Sustainability 1 President Committee Committee 2 Secretary (not a member of the Board) • Ensuring sustainable development is embedded in CEMEX’s shortand long-term strategy The Sustainability Committee is • Assisting the Board in its Corporate Finance comprised of three board members and responsibilities to shareholders Practices Committee one secretary and is supported by our relating to the policies and practices Committee Corporate Sustainability function, who that pertain to the company’s reports to the CEO and to a member sustainable growth of the Executive Committee. Moreover • Endorsing CEMEX’s Sustainability CEO and through the Global Sustainability Model, priorities and core KPIs Functional Network we implement our Executive Committee • Assessing the effectiveness of main initiatives in all of our businesses sustainability initiatives and the across the world. progress of implementation • Providing guidance to the CEO and Corporate Sustainability Executive Committee on key strategic sustainability decisions Sustainability The CEMEX Sustainability Committee Functional Network assists the board in overseeing strategies designed to manage environmental, social, economic and governance related “CEMEX’s creation of a board-level Sustainability Committee is a risks; supervising management processes clear indication of the importance of sustainability to the company, and standards; and achieving compliance and its commitment to integrate sustainable construction, with associated responsibilities and commitments. It also reviews the conservation, environmental, social and governance priorities effectiveness of policies and procedures into our business strategy. We are also tasked with ensuring relating to health and safety, employment that sustainability becomes completely embedded in the daily practices, stakeholder relationships, management of the company.” environment, human rights, resources — Armando J. García Segovia preservation, authorities involvement and President of the Sustainability Committee sustainable development. 12 Table of To Our Our Building Social Enviromental Values Into Stakeholder Additional Contents Stakeholders Business Solutions Strategy Excellence Actions Engagement Information CEMEX Sustainability Stakeholders participation to define CEMEX’s Materiality Matrix Material Issues Based on 1,500 surveys 3% 1% Understanding our key priorities allows CEMEX Top Managers us to align our time, resources and Employees 6% investment accordingly. That’s why we Clients 43% have put time and effort into defining our Suppliers 6% Sustainability Materiality Matrix. Through Analysts/Investors/Shareholders 9% detailed analysis, we have identified the Community/Communication leaders main economic, social, environmental and governance issues that are of greatest Government/Administration 13% Note: Results weighted according to four 19% main stakeholders categories (25% each one): concern to both internal and external NGOs/Associations/Foundations/ clients, suppliers, employees and community Universities & others. stakeholders. CEMEX sent surveys to more than 11,000 stakeholders including employees, + Materiality Matrix 1. Economic value creation 2. Customer engagement and satisfaction customers, analysts, suppliers, investors, 3 3. Health and safety for our employees, contractors High Higher Highest and third parties community leaders, government officials materiality materiality materiality 1 4 Climate change and CO2 emissions management and NGO representatives across all six 5. Renewable and alternative energy sourcing CEMEX regions. The survey was translated 6. Corporate governance and transparency into seven languages and received more 7. Employee relations and engagement 2 8. Products, services and solutions to improve lifestyle in cities Stakeholder concern than 1,500 responses that helped us 9. Air quality management (SOx, NOx and other emissions) define an updated Materiality Matrix that 10. Human rights and ethics in business more accurately reflects our sustainability 4 11. Products, services and solutions for high energy efficiency 14 11 8 6 12. Community engagement and development priorities. The vertical axis indicates the 17 15 5 13. Risk management relevance level that our stakeholders assign 9 12 7 14. Quarry rehabilitation, biodiversity preservation and to the assessed issues while the horizontal ecosystems management 16 10 axis shows the significance and potential 19 18 15. Responsible and sustainable management of the supply chain 13 16. Products, services and solutions for low income families impact for our organization. 20 17. Water use and recycling 18. Waste generation, disposal and recycling 19. Transport and logistic optimization This analysis facilitated the identification 20. Environmental incidents management of the 20 most relevant sustainabilityrelated issues for CEMEX, classified in Impact on CEMEX + We will continue to review, three categories: High, Higher and Highest update and share our materiality materiality. Our communication in this report analysis in future years as external will be concentrated in the two latter groups of issues, which include our top priorities and business context changes based on the results of the external and require new consideration of our internal stakeholders executed consultation. sustainability priorities. G4-18, G4-19, G4-20, G4-21, G4-24, G4-26 · 13 Table of To Our Our Building Social Enviromental Values Into Stakeholder Additional Contents Stakeholders Business Solutions Strategy Excellence Actions Engagement Information 1.2 / Our Redefined Sustainability Model At CEMEX, our strong corporate culture centered on sustainability helps keep us on the right track. To ensure we are creating value for our stakeholders, we consistently evaluate our approach and priorities. In line with these definitions, we also decided to update our Sustainability For this reason, in 2014 Our Vision, integrated by Our Purpose, Mission, Strategy, Model, working with the Operating Model and Values, was revisited and communicated throughout the Global Sustainability organization. Functional Network. 14 Table of To Our Our Building Social Enviromental Values Into Stakeholder Additional Contents Stakeholders Business Solutions Strategy Excellence Actions Engagement Information Our Purpose is “Building a Better Future” for all stakeholders, including our team members, customers, shareholders and communities. CEMEX Sustainability In short, we have the opportunity to make an important, positive and lasting Model was updated by impact in the future of society by a Global Sustainability providing the industry’s best solutions Functional Network in cement, ready-mix and aggregates integrated by more than around the world. Ensuring sustainability is fully embedded in our business is one 100 experts representing of the four main drivers to accomplish all regions where we CEMEX’s Strategy. operate. Our Global Sustainability Functional Our Sustainability Objectives Operating Network, provided key input for the and Priorities Purpose Mission Strategy Model Values redefinition of CEMEX Sustainability Model taking into consideration: Through a structured and extensive process of both internal and external • Main material issues and concerns of consultation, we defined 4 main our stakeholders sustainability objectives under the 1 2 3 4 • Major global societal challenges economic, environmental, social and where CEMEX can have a significant governance pillars supported by 13 top contribution priorities that ensure sustainability is embedded into every aspect Value Our People Help Our Pursue Markets Ensure as Our Main Customers that Offer Sustainability is of our business. Competitive Succeed Long-Term Fully Embedded Advantage Profitability in Our Business 15 Table of To Our Our Building Social Enviromental Values Into Stakeholder Additional Contents Stakeholders Business Solutions Strategy Excellence Actions Engagement Information economic environmental social governance Poverty, Income Increasing Expectations Climate Change, Global Societal Relentless Population Inequality, Aging for Private Sector to Act Resource Scarcity and Challenges Growth and Urbanization Population and Responsibly and Biodiversity Loss Unemployment be Proactive Provide Resilient Implement a Enable a Low-Carbon Embed Our Core Our Sustainability Infrastructure and High-Impact Social and Resource-Efficient Values into Objectives Energy-Efficient Strategy to Empower Industry Every Action Building Solutions Communities Our Sustainability • Providing sustainable • Optimizing our carbon • Actively participating • Placing health & safety Priorities products and services footprint through the in the development first • Delivering solutions use of alternative fuels of sustainable • Ensuring satisfied for affordable and and raw materials as communities customers and resource/energy well as clean energy • Creating social and responsible suppliers efficient buildings • Minimizing air emissions inclusive business • Engaging and retaining • Implementing resilient and enhancing opportunities our talent and low-impact our environmental • Promoting management • Strengthening business infrastructure empowerment, diversity ethics, compliance and • Conserving land, and community transparency biodiversity and water capacity-building G4-18, G4-19, G4-20, G4-21, G4-27 · 16 Table of To Our Our Building Social Enviromental Values Into Stakeholder Additional Contents Stakeholders Business Solutions Strategy Excellence Actions Engagement Information 1.3 / Sustainability Core KPIs Update and 2020 Targets Defining New Goals As a clear evidence of CEMEX’s commitment to shape a long-term business strategy considering sustainability as an essential foundation, we decided to establish 2020 targets for our core sustainability KPIs. They will serve as a For some indicators, we reference to objectively track and monitor the progress to our goals. are still benchmarking performance in order to obtain a robust baseline to define sufficiently ambitious 2020 targets. 17 Table of To Our Our Building Social Enviromental Values Into Stakeholder Additional Contents Stakeholders Business Solutions Strategy Excellence Actions Engagement Information Sustainability Core KPIs 2020 Targets Challenges to Address Main Objectives Our Goals Provide Resilient • Benchmarking m² of green certified buildings to define goal economic • ≥ 25% of annual ready-mix sales derived from products with outstanding Infrastructure and sustainable attributes Energy-Efficient • Benchmarking m² of affordable and resource-efficient buildings to define goal Building Solutions • Benchmarking m² of concrete paving completed to define goal • 35% total alternative fuels rate • 25% reduction in CO₂ per ton of cementitious product from 1990 baseline Enable a • 100% of clinker produced with continuous monitoring of major emissions environmental Low-Carbon and Resource-Efficient • • • ≥ 50% reduction in Dust emissions per ton of clinker from 2005 baseline 1 ≥ 30% reduction in NOx emissions per ton of clinker from 2005 baseline 1 ≥ 20% reduction in SOx emissions per ton of clinker from 2005 baseline 1 Industry • 100% of active quarries with high biodiversity where BAPs (Biodiviersity Action Plan) are actively implemented • Benchmarking specific water consumption to define goal Implement a social • ≥ 10 million individuals benefited from our social initiatives High-Impact Social (accumulated since 1998) Strategy to Empower • Benchmarking other social core KPIs to define additional goals Communities • ≥ 90% of countries conduct regular customer satisfaction surveys • ≥ 55% of global procurement spend assessed under our Supplier Sustainability Program • 83% of employees perceive they are enabled to perform their job effectively governance Embed Our Core Values into (PEI – Performance Enablement Index) • 80% of engaged employees (EEI – Employee Engagement Index) Every Action • ≥ 90% of executives and employees are actively aware of our Code of Ethics • ≥ 90% of countries that participated on the antitrust and anti-bribery Global Compliance Program • ≥ 90% of reported ethics and compliance cases investigated and closed • 0 Fatalities 1. Target level of performance to reach every year from 2015-2020 18 Table of To Our Our Building Social Enviromental Values Into Stakeholder Additional Contents Stakeholders Business Solutions Strategy Excellence Actions Engagement Information 2 / Providing Resilient Participation in a 7.1 million m2 portfolio of projects pursuing and Efficient Green Building Certifications Building Solutions +8.1 million m2 of concrete pavement installed in almost 600 infrastructure projects We contributed to the construction of 3,150 affordable and efficient building units in 12 countries 19 Table of To Our Our Building Social Enviromental Values Into Stakeholder Additional Contents Stakeholders Business Solutions Strategy Excellence Actions Engagement Information The United Nations estimates that 180,000 people join the urban population each day and that the number of city dwellers is expected to nearly double to six billion people in the next 35 years. This increasing urbanization raises the challenge of ensuring cities grow in a manner that is inclusive, safe, resilient and sustainable. Today, too many cities lack sufficient clean water, electricity, reliable public transportation and other basic resources necessary to serve their expanding populations and create economic opportunity for all. Solutions are needed to strengthen our urban environments and prepare them for growth. CEMEX is uniquely positioned to address many of the challenges cities are facing. By delivering sustainable construction materials and expertise, building resilient infrastructure and providing affordable and efficient buildings, we are leading the way in offering solutions that promote economic growth, preserve the environment and improve the quality of urban life. 20 Table of To Our Our Building Social Enviromental Values Into Stakeholder Additional Contents Stakeholders Business Solutions Strategy Excellence Actions Engagement Information 2.1 / Providing Sustainable Products and Services Providing enhanced value to our customers and end users through sustainable products is one of CEMEX´s main strategies for growth ensuring that top-end concrete technology is adequately developed and delivered to fulfill their challenges. This enables customers CEMEX does more than manufacture concrete, we develop innovative solutions that to design and construct sustainable buildings that advance the sustainability of structures made of this material. By leveraging years take advantage of the of experience, a worldwide pool of knowledge and state-of-the-art expertise on the benefits of concrete in a constituents of concrete (cement, aggregates and admixtures) we can offer a customer wide range of applications. centric approach for product development: “Concrete by Design™”. 21 Table of To Our Our Building Social Enviromental Values Into Stakeholder Additional Contents Stakeholders Business Solutions Strategy Excellence Actions Engagement Information The CEMEX Research Group AG (CRG) in Switzerland and the CEMEX Cement and Ready-Mix Technology Center in Mexico are the two main global research and development centers that lead, manage and coordinate the creation and delivery of innovative construction solutions that can be tailored to local realities. In order to develop a new product or In 2014, CEMEX invested Sustainable Construction Solutions through solution, the first step is to fully understand more than US $40 Proprietary Concrete Technology our customers. This implies to clearly million into research define what they require to build, the and development efforts challenges for that, what the product technology must achieve and how the for new construction product or solution will be applied. solutions and products. CEMEX offers sustainable construction solutions to its As a result the products offered to the so it is a natural choice for sustainable customers by formulating, producing market are beyond providing top class construction. and utilizing proprietary chemicals for technology but they also embed a solid concrete, cement and aggregates. knowledge of the customers’ needs and Our portfolio of products helps to lower how they wish to achieve their goals. buildings’ carbon footprint and offer a Fully integrated into the CEMEX’s Sticking to this practice guarantees that series of benefits including energy savings, core businesses, the Construction CEMEX´s products are designed with water management, resource efficiency Chemicals Division is a strategic business allowing the development sustainable practices incorporated in and strategic advantages for health and of the best building solution for a the production, delivery, application and safety applications. Moreover, because given customer need. Supported by lifecycle. concrete is a truly sustainable material its 10 plants worldwide, as well as its performance is never compromised neither R&D center in Switzerland, CEMEX Balancing Performance and in the products design phase nor in the produces chemicals for energy Sustainability application and use. efficient materials, improved lifeinfrastructure projects, while cycle carbon emissions, affordable minimizing the business impact on Concrete is a key component in creating To help guide design engineers to materials for housing and durable environment and local communities. durable and energy-efficient buildings, best match structural performance 22 Table of To Our Our Building Social Enviromental Values Into Stakeholder Additional Contents Stakeholders Business Solutions Strategy Excellence Actions Engagement Information CEMEX Switzerland Unveils Concrete Technology In 2014, our research group in CEMEX Switzerland introduced evolution eco to our family of global brands. Working together, researchers, commercial groups and technical teams within the different regions of CEMEX fine-tuned the product to meet local country requirements. This was executed based on our philosophy of industrialization which surpases the boundaries of proving products benefits in the lab and takes it to a real application on site considering local resources and challenges. A special class of Self Compacting Concrete (SCC) – evolution eco – has been developed making fluiding concretes more accessible in construction. The evolution eco has a CO2 footprint that is significantly lower than conventional SCC, but offers all the advantages such as fast pouring, quality finishes, reduction of need for vibration and improved consolidation around reinforcements. with sustainability goals, CEMEX has Insularis – Structural light weight and developed the ECO-Mechanical Index ultra light weight thermal insulating CEMEX Launches ReadyBrick in the UK (EMI). It classifies our products and concrete. solutions based on a performanceCEMEX responded to changing environmental impact criterion. Thus Promptis – Rapid hardening concrete market conditions in the United Kingdom with the release through EMI, CEMEX has enabled solution that can help save time during of ReadyBrick in 2014. This design engineers to fully understand the construction. innovative new concrete product sustainability benefits without losing sight provides an alternative to of structural performance. Evolution – Ulta performance self traditional kiln-fired clay bricks, compacting concrete. which are currently in low supply. Experts from our R&D Center in Switzerland in collaboration with our Hidratium– Self curing, crack resistant Known as a spacer or coursing Cement and Ready-Mix Technology concrete technology. brick, this product is suitable Center in Mexico design products for areas and surfaces where that fulfill the construction industry´s For a full list of our products, their the brick will not be seen and increasingly demanding performance outstanding sustainability attributes requires plastering or rendering. ReadyBricks can be used between requirements. Thanks to the use of and safety data sheets, please visit our joists, above doors and windows CEMEX admixtures, which enhance webpage http://bit.ly/1EQUyDB. and for floorand ceiling-level the performance of our products in a coursing. unique way, the company offers a special concrete portfolio, lead by our Global ReadyBrick is partially comprised of approximately 10 percent cement kiln dust, Brands: a material often sent to landfills, making it an environmentally friendly product in line with our sustainability efforts. 23 Table of To Our Our Building Social Enviromental Values Into Stakeholder Additional Contents Stakeholders Business Solutions Strategy Excellence Actions Engagement Information CEMEX Helps Sofia Tower Earn LEED Gold Certification in Mexico Sofia Tower Standing 154 meters tall, the LEED Gold Certified For the construction of the tower’s foundation, Sofia Tower is the most exclusive residential CEMEX created a special concrete mix that included development in the Mexican State of Nuevo Leon fly ash. Containing 5,900 m³ of concrete, the pouring and serves as a symbol of sustainability. The of the structure required more than 100 mixer trucks development was designed by Pelli Clarke Pelli, the over the course of 36 continuous hours. At the prestigious architectural firm that designed the World time of construction, this was the largest concrete Financial Center in New York, the Petronas Towers monolithic slab of its kind in Monterrey City and the in Malaysia and the International Finance Centre in greater metropolitan area. Hong Kong. Green Building Services Green Building Services provided include: CEMEX partners with national and international experts to complement our skills and provide a complete array of specialized services in sustainable construction. Working collaboratively, we integrate all members of the construction Green Building Bioclimatic Energy value chain to optimize results and Certifications Architecture Efficient (LEED, Engineering maximize profits. BREEAM, etc.) 100 mixer trucks during 36 continous CEMEX is working to hours to pour ensure a pipeline of Green 5,900 m3 of concrete for the monolithic slab Building certified projects Sustainable Materials and ecoperating™ Building Urban Development that represent more than Solutions Development Certification and Product Seal Consultancy 7 million m2. 24 Table of To Our Our Building Social Enviromental Values Into Stakeholder Additional Contents Stakeholders Business Solutions Strategy Excellence Actions Engagement Information 2014 Green Building Certifications by CEMEX Project Portfolio cy + sustain cy + sustain ien ab ien ab fic l fic l ef e ef e ene sign ene sign rgy de rgy de PLUS er er in tifi in g tifi c g c e d b u il d e d b u il d Lucena Residential Sofia Tower Esfera City Center Cosmopolitan Tower 14,000 m built area 2 98,600 m built area 2 276,925 m built area 2 13,950 m built area 2 Mixed use Mixed use Commercial Offices San Pedro Garza Garcia, N.L. Mexico San Pedro Garza Garcia, N.L. Mexico Monterrey, N.L. Mexico Tijuana, B.C. Mexico cy + sustain ien ab fic l ef e ene sign rgy de er tifi in c g e d b u il d ICA Reserva Escondida Campus ICA SEMARNAT 223 Sorteo Tec 199 22,584 m built area 2 59,050 m built area 2 32,000 m built area 2 528 m built area 2 Residential Offices Offices Residential Mexico City, Mexico Mexico City, Mexico Mexico City, Mexico San Pedro Garza Garcia, N.L. Mexico 25 Table of To Our Our Building Social Enviromental Values Into Stakeholder Additional Contents Stakeholders Business Solutions Strategy Excellence Actions Engagement Information Specialty Concrete Shapes LEED Certified Stadium in Brazil Located in the Brazilian city of Manaus, CEMEX participated in the construction of the Arena da Amazonia 28,000 tons soccer stadium that hosted several competitive opening round matches of the 2014 FIFA World Cup. CEMEX worked in close collaboration with renowned construction company Andrade Gutierrez S.A., providing 28,000 tons of specialty, high-quality cement and expert customer service throughout the project. of our specialty The oval-shaped stadium resembles an indigenous woven basket; its upper level has see-through panels high-quality cement crisscrossed with beams in a woven pattern. The innovative stadium called for the highest quality standards of construction, adhering to the strict safety requirements of FIFA and the Brazilian National Construction Code. The stadium’s ecological design is a model for sustainable construction of large-scale projects. Its innovative characteristics combine comfortable facilities with high energy efficiency and make it one of the world’s first stadiums certified under the LEED scheme. ecoperating™ Building Certification System ecoperating™ Seal Continues for Residential and Commercial Buildings to Expand The ecoperating™ seal was launched in 2012 as a global identifier for our Certification Levels Categories and Requirements most sustainable products, services Energy efficiency Sustainable design and solutions. With the expansion of Mandatory Elective the scope of the seal to buildings, it has ien cy + sustain ab ien cy + sustain ab Energy consumption savings Water consumption savings entered into a new phase that allows us fic l fic l ef ef ene e n ene e n >10% Energy consumption Percentage of low water to recognize the efforts of our clients to rgy sig rgy sig reduction against standards consumption and/or waterless de de ASHRAE 90.1-2010. sanitary fixtures. go beyond business-as-usual and deliver > 50% = 1 point | > 75% = 2 points truly sustainable projects. PLUS Using an energy simulation mode, the project Local sourcing er in er in must demonstrate at minimum a 10% energy Percentage of materials extracted Both the ecoperating™ Building tifi tifi c g c g e d b u il d e d b u il d efficiency against a baseline as defined by and manufactured within 500 km Certification and Product Seal have US standard ASHRAE 90.1-2010 (American radius of the project. For projects Society of Air Conditioning, Refrigeration and > 10% = 1 point | > 20% = 2 points been rolled out in nine countries on four For projects Heating). achieving > 10% achieving > 20% Heat island effect reduction continents: Mexico, Guatemala, Costa energy consumption energy consumption reduction under the reduction under the Standard ASHRAE 90.1-2010 establishes Percentage of exterior horizontal Rica, Panama, the Dominican Republic, minimum requirements for the efficient surfaces with a Solar Reflectance energy efficiency energy efficiency Index [SRI] > 30 Croatia, Egypt, the United Arab Emirates category and category and energy design of buildings. > 3 points under > 5 points under > 50% = 1 point | > 75% = 2 points and the Philippines. For 2015, we expect the sustainable the sustainable By fulfilling this requirement, the project is Innovative sustainable solution a further expansion in both geographic design category. design category. simultaneously complying with the official Mexican standrad NOM-020-ENER-2011, Inclusion of an innovative solution coverage and the scope of projects. [IS] that generates improvements/ energy Efficiency in buildings–Building additional savings. Envelopes for Residential Use. 1 IS = 1 point | 2 IS = 2 points 26 Table of To Our Our Building Social Enviromental Values Into Stakeholder Additional Contents Stakeholders Business Solutions Strategy Excellence Actions Engagement Information 500 m 2 of solar thermal panels were installed for water heating 140,000 The 2014 first place recipient of the CEMEX Building Award for Sustainability was Sport City Oaxaca in Oaxaca, Mexico. The 4,600 m2 building was bricks and 22,000 tiles constructed with local materials promoting a sense of identity among residents and an efficient use of were produced by hand locally resources. of existing and development of new Urban Development Consultancy Recognizing Excellence in CEMEX Receives Best community centers; relocation of CEMEX partners with cities to plan, Sustainable Construction Construction Solutions dwellings in natural risk areas through develop and improve their infrastructure the creation of low-cost housing; Award in a manner that addresses critical management of solid urban waste and Each year CEMEX recognizes building environmental and social needs. Getting construction debris; and the use of projects that make a positive impact The New Economy is a premier involved at the planning stage, CEMEX renewable energy for outdoor lighting. through superior innovation. media outlet covering energy, helps to bring a city’s vision into focus by • In collaboration with the Commission environment and clean technology. In 2014, the New Economy jointly exploring and identifying solutions of the Private Sector for Sustainable The Sport City Oaxaca in Mexico was selected CEMEX as the winner of for sustainable urban infrastructure. Development (CESPEDES), a selected as the winner of CEMEX 2014 its prestigious Best Construction local partner of WBCSD, and five Building Award for the Sustainable Solutions Award, one of the leading To date, two projects have been leading national companies, CEMEX Construction Category. The entire categories within its Clean Tech completed: continued to work towards an action complex was designed to harness Awards. CEMEX was recognized plan developed in 2013. Addressing natural resources. The building is for its commitment to making • Through our Urban Infrastructure needs for economic, urban, social equipped with systems for capturing sustainable construction a top Initiative sponsored by the World and environmental development in rainwater and energy, and uses passive priority and for the introduction Business Council for Sustainable Merida, located in the Mexican state strategies such as water harvesting of its ecoperating™ Building Development (WBCSD) in Guadalajara, of Yucatan, the proposal calls for and natural ventilation, which occurs Certification. Mexico, CEMEX partnered with rehabilitation of roads; development of social housing; construction of through a horizontal opening extending energy and lighting companies to along the top of the adobe walls. Thus, address the city’s key needs including a sports park; feasibility study of vertical housing; and electronic waste together with the high thermal inertia urban mobility, social development, collection. provided by the adobe, it was possible housing and waste management. to avoid using air conditioning systems Proposals included the completion and consolidation of existing roads and reduce energy costs over the life of and cycling networks; transformation the building. | 27 Table of To Our Our Building Social Enviromental Values Into Stakeholder Additional Contents Stakeholders Business Solutions Strategy Excellence Actions Engagement Information 2.2 / Implementing Resilient and Low-Impact Infrastructure As urban populations grow and climate change causes more extreme weather, the need for resilient infrastructure is growing exponentially. CEMEX focuses on balancing this increasing demand for resilient infrastructure Concrete is the second most used resource that serves societies’ needs with products, construction practices and by humans after water, maintenance that have minimal impact on the environment. forming the basis for much of society’s infrastructure. 28 Table of To Our Our Building Social Enviromental Values Into Stakeholder Additional Contents Stakeholders Business Solutions Strategy Excellence Actions Engagement Information Through innovative products and services, CEMEX unlocks the inherent sustainable qualities of concrete to meet the challenges of our growing and warming world. Terminal 2, The Queen´s Terminal at Heathrow Airport, London, UK. Key sustainable attributes of In 2014, CEMEX concrete include: Promoting Concrete Sustainability in Partnership with the collaborated in the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) construction of almost 4 Strength and durability 4 Low maintenance CEMEX continues to support the 600 infrastructure 4 Affordability MIT Concrete Sustainability Hub projects across 14 (CSHub) through our membership 4 Fire-resistance in the Portland Cement Association countries, accounting to 4 Low heat conductivity (PCA) and National Ready Mixed the installation of more 4 Local production and use Concrete Association (NRMCA) as than 8.1 million m2 of 4 Less solar heat absorption well as through our participation in the Executive Oversight Committee and a concrete pavement. 4 Water management number of Advisory Groups. In 2014, the MIT CSHub published a Integrated Approach paper summarizing the first five years of research results from the Concrete Science Platform (CSP). The goal of CEMEX promotes an integrated these studies is to discover ways to approach to urban development where make a more resilient concrete that vertical construction, smart mobility, lasts longer, requires fewer repairs over water management and bioclimatic its use phase and potentially reduces design combine to improve the livability the amount of cement needed to and economic success of a city while make concrete, reducing the material’s reducing resource consumption and carbon footprint. protecting the environment. 29 Table of To Our Our Building Social Enviromental Values Into Stakeholder Additional Contents Stakeholders Business Solutions Strategy Excellence Actions Engagement Information CEMEX Quality Stands up to Extreme Weather Recycled Concrete Aggregate Paves Guadalajara-Tepic Highway Due to the depletion of reserves, environmental pressures and the high cost of transport, the use of recycled concrete aggregate is becoming best practice, especially in urban areas where the supply of natural aggregates is limited. In 2014, CEMEX provided 24,000 m³ of concrete as part of the rehabilitation of the Guadalajara-Tepic highway in the states of Jalisco and Asphalt Pavement Concrete Pavement Nayarit, Mexico. Produced using natural and recycled aggregates, In September 2014, Hurricane Odile of Hurricane Odile. The structural the hydraulic concrete significantly swept ashore Baja California Sur, integrity of the roads facilitated the reduced the environmental and Mexico, tying it with Hurricane Olivia in delivery of food to the thousands economic impact of the project. 1967 as the strongest hurricane to hit of people affected by the storm in the satellite era. and the transportation of people and equipment to support a rapid Damages from the Category 3 storm recovery. amounted to approximately US $1.05 billion. Power outages spurred The construction of the roads is part Pavement Recycling In 2014, CEMEX executed by Odile’s intense winds and rain of the Reconstruction with Concrete 26 road projects, cut electricity to 92 percent of the Program (PRECO) organized by Full-depth reclamation rebuilds worn population of Baja California Sur. the State Government and led by out asphalt pavements by pulverizing increasing the use Severe flooding also occurred, causing CEMEX. Started in 2013, the program the old asphalt and base materials and of pavement recycling rivers to swell and requiring the mass is designed to repave roads using mixing them with cement and water to to 2,000,000 m2, up evacuation of people out of hazardous concrete instead of asphalt to make produce a strong, durable base for a low-lying areas. the roads more sustainable and 60 percent compared to new concrete surface. The technique resilient. Combining road construction is resource efficient and reduces 2013. The technique is now In the storm’s aftermath, the local media with the replacement of water piping construction waste while building a low being used in Spain noted that thanks to the quality of and drainage, it is estimated that the hydraulic concrete roads and technical concrete pavement will have a lifespan maintenance, long-lasting road surface. | and Mexico. work of CEMEX, 510,000 m2 of concrete of at least 30 years. pavement withstood the ravages 30 Table of To Our Our Building Social Enviromental Values Into Stakeholder Additional Contents Stakeholders Business Solutions Strategy Excellence Actions Engagement Information 2.3 / Delivering Solutions for Affordable and Resource Efficient Buildings More than ever before, city planners will have to find ways to house rapidly escalating urban populations while maintaining a focus on affordability. In 2014, we contributed Through numerous initiatives, we support the social and economic development to the construction of of communities at the base of the socioeconomic pyramid. With unmatched 3,150 affordable and expertise in tailor-made systems that are easily adapted and lead to efficient efficient residential units, construction of homes, we are delivering housing for all socioeconomic markets representing more than in 12 different countries. 180,000 m². 31 Table of To Our Our Building Social Enviromental Values Into Stakeholder Additional Contents Stakeholders Business Solutions Strategy Excellence Actions Engagement Information Our Housing Solutions Attributes Flexible Thermal Minimum Fast design Resilient insulation waste building Easily adapted Resilient to High thermal Less waste Significally to construction natural mass and at construction reduces and design disaster insulation site construction requirements time Energy-Efficient Wall Solutions approximately 50 percent of which are single mothers who did not have the Central to this effort are first-in-class wall resources to afford proper housing. systems – cast-in-place, wired EPS panels, Insulated Concrete Forms (ICF) and precast VIPA Program systems – that provide multiple benefits Expanding CEMEX’s efforts in Colombia, that improve the sustainability, speed and we joined the Homes for Savers (VIPA in economics of housing construction. Spanish) program in 2014. VIPA allows families to purchase their own home Housing Initiatives in Colombia without spending more than 30 percent of Create New Homes their income on credit fees. This enables households where members do not earn Vivienda Project more than minimum wage to realize their An example of our commitment to dreams of home ownership. affordable housing is our Vivienda (“Home”) initiative where we partner with CEMEX is using its industry expertise, the Colombian government to provide innovative outlook, infrastructure and wide dignified, comfortable, high-quality homes network of partnerships to construct more to low-income families. In 2014, 640 than 3,000 sustainable houses within the apartment residences were completed program. According to the Ministry of as part of a 3,000 unit development that Housing, 86,000 families across the country includes recreational and green areas for are benefiting from VIPA’s efforts. The Vivienda the city of Monteria. Many of these homes and VIPA initiatives are an integral part of our went to families displaced by violence, development efforts in Latin America. 32 Table of To Our Our Building Social Enviromental Values Into Stakeholder Additional Contents Stakeholders Business Solutions Strategy Excellence Actions Engagement Information With our Build Unity program, CEMEX hopes not only to rebuild infrastructure but to help survivors rebuild their lives. CEMEX Delivers Affordable • La Barquita – Initiated in July 2014 Reconstruction Projects for Through Build Unity, CEMEX focused on Housing Units in the Dominican with a completion date of May Victims of Typhoon Yolanda in the high-priority rebuilding projects in Northern Republic 2015, La Barquita will include 232 Philippines Cebu including: apartments that the Dominican Republic government will provide to As part of our commitment to improve In the wake of Typhoon Yolanda (also known • Construction of new homes for families in families in high-risk flood areas. the quality of life for the communities by its international code name, Haiyan), the most affected areas we serve, in 2014 CEMEX continued to • Residencial del Norte – Initiated in CEMEX Philippines established partnerships 2013, this private project includes the • Rebuilding and renovation of damaged provide homes to residents across the with local government and non-profit schools construction of 120 apartments, 80 of Dominican Republic. organizations from the northern part of which were constructed in 2014. • Development of a new Community Cebu to effectively carry out Build Unity, an Health Center • Altos Del Higuamo – Using an integrated, holistic rebuilding program. • Creation of a Community Training Facility innovative model of social housing These homes represent that included a water treatment • Construction of cement sculptures plant, underground cables, concrete the first of many steps • Provision of driftwood structures to roads and solar energy, this year we to expand our efforts, attract marine life back to the coasts of completed 58 out of 600 residential dedicating our products Northern Cebu units in addition to educational, commercial, athletic and child care and expertise to This is one example of CEMEX’s work areas. provide more affordable with Habitat for Humanity International. • Invi Gobierno – In 2014, 160 housing solutions to Established in 2013, the intent of the apartments were constructed for lowfamilies in need. partnership is to ally in every country income families. where CEMEX and Habitat have a presence to increase the building of affordable and disaster relief housing. | 33 Table of To Our Our Building Social Enviromental Values Into Stakeholder Additional Contents Stakeholders Business Solutions Strategy Excellence Actions Engagement Information 3 / Implementing a High-Impact Social Strategy 98% More than 550,000 families have participated in our of our operations implement social and inclusive business Community Engagement Plans opportunities We have globally established around 200 centers for the Almost 7 million promotion of our housing construction people have benefited and improvement programs from our social initiatives 34 Table of To Our Our Building Social Enviromental Values Into Stakeholder Additional Contents Stakeholders Business Solutions Strategy Excellence Actions Engagement Information CEMEX understands that the sustainability of our company is directly related to the well-being and development of our stakeholders and surrounding communities. Thus, wherever we operate we strive to build mutually beneficial relationships with nearby districts and key stakeholders including neighbors, members of academia, NGOs and other corporations. These relationships with our communities are underpinned by ongoing dialogue, transparency and trust. As a global business that recognizes the unique priorities and needs of our local communities, CEMEX aims to add public value by leveraging our business capabilities and above all, our people. We strive to establish alliances that enhance the solutions we offer, and we will work to expand our flagship programs to countries where they can have a high impact. Social business models have allowed CEMEX to work with hundreds of communities all over the world and improve the quality of life of approximately seven million people. Our 2020 target is to benefit with our social initiatives more than 10 million people throughout the world. 35 Table of To Our Our Building Social Enviromental Values Into Stakeholder Additional Contents Stakeholders Business Solutions Strategy Excellence Actions Engagement Information 3.1 / Promoting the Development of Sustainable Communities Our mission is to be the best neighbor and private sector contributor to community development and serve as an engine of economic growth through innovative and sustainable solutions. To develop sustainable communities, members We strive to generate new opportunities for our communities by: must have access to • Unlocking the power of individuals through capacity building that enhances the information and their skills, competencies and abilities resources they need to be • Investing in infrastructure, education, the environment and social innovation successful. • Creating and strengthening alliances 36 Table of To Our Our Building Social Enviromental Values Into Stakeholder Additional Contents Stakeholders Business Solutions Strategy Excellence Actions Engagement Information 9,000 people participated in 300 workshops in 12 centers around Mexico Community Centers To increase awareness and promote environmental consciousness, we’ve also CONCAMIN Rewards For more than 15 years, To develop sustainable communities, begun building Environmental Education CEMEX for its Ethics and CEMEX has improved members must have access to the Centers that will foster discussion Values in Business the quality of life of information and resources they need to and solutions that both protect the be successful. That’s why we’ve created environment and improve community approximately seven CEMEX Mexico received from the the Community Centers that serve as members’ quality of life. Confederation of Industrial Chambers million people through central locations for our workshops and of Mexico’s (CONCAMIN in Spanish) our initiatives that aim courses focused on developing skills The first Environmental the Ethics and Values Industry Award for the ninth consecutive year. to support community that will help the participants secure employment or start a small business, Education Center began The award recognizes chambers, development. improving their household income. construction in 2014 in associations and companies that have made notable progress in social Huichapan Hidalgo, responsibility. Mexico, and will be In Mexico, the first inaugurated in the second Community Center was quarter of 2015. inaugurated 10 years ago. In addition, CEMEX is planning to open a second center close to our Atotonilco cement plant. 37 Table of To Our Our Building Social Enviromental Values Into Stakeholder Additional Contents Stakeholders Business Solutions Strategy Excellence Actions Engagement Information Since it was founded in 2010, the center has focused on the following initiatives: The CEMEX-Tecnológico de Monterrey Center for Sustainable It generates interdisciplinary and applied research on social welfare, Development Sustainable environmental issues, ethics, citizen participation, infrastructure, housing and public politics to promote economic development. Community The CEMEX-Tecnológico de Monterrey Center for Sustainable Development joins Development The group developed a Sustainable Community Model designed to strengthen members of the public and private sector Research local capabilities and identify key factors for successful development within with universities to discuss initiatives, Group various regions. share knowledge, create tools and promote the development of skills and capabilities that lead to more sustainable communities. The center is currently focused on building these efforts in The Award fosters research and sustainable solutions for problems related to Mexico, however it will soon expand its community planning, organization and urbanization. scope to other parts of Latin America. The CEMEXIn 2014, 159 university students, 158 teachers and 75 other education professionals TEC Award participated, submitting a total of 236 projects. The portfolio of initiatives include the Yo Construyo and Yo Emprendo programs that aim to reduce the backlog of housing, promote self-employment and ensure quality self-construction in line with sustainable criteria. Sharing Additionally, through our Community Environmental Restoration Program, we create Knowledge local networks of students and professors responsible for self-assessing their community from an environmental standpoint and proposing and coordinating the 500 necessary restoration actions. people nationwide have been trained through the Yo Construyo and Yo Emprendo programs For more information about the Center please access www.cdcs.com.mx 38 Table of To Our Our Building Social Enviromental Values Into Stakeholder Additional Contents Stakeholders Business Solutions Strategy Excellence Actions Engagement Information CEMEX Renews Partnership with the United Nations World Food Program In 2014, CEMEX Egypt decided to continue children in 23 community schools will its support of the United Nations World benefit from this program. Food Program (WFP). Ultimately, the program hopes to improve The contribution will assist the Foodthe quality of education and increase for-Education program, created to enrollment, attendance and retention of provide students in the poorest and children in Assiut’s schools by 2015. most food insecure areas of Assiut with daily nutritious snacks and monthly food supplies for their families. Around 670 Greenhouses and Home Gardens Athletic Academies CEMEX Implemented Next Phase of Listo Tayo! Road Safety CEMEX greenhouses provide spaces Program in the Philippines Exercise is a crucial element of a healthy dedicated to producing plants and trees lifestyle. In the communities surrounding that contribute to quarry rehabilitation and High-traffic areas pose a great threat Listo Tayo! is an educational several of our operations across the to children as they make their daily campaign on the importance of the reforestation of public places in the globe, we’ve developed CEMEX football walk to and from school. CEMEX street safety and awareness for communities where we operate. In 2014, and baseball academies that provide Philippines recognized the need 3rd and 4th grade students. The more than 330,000 trees from our 21 for road safety education and began program features an animated film, athletic facilities across neighborhoods. greenhouses were donated and replanted Listo Tayo! lectures and informative games. In These academies promote healthy with the help of local schools, agencies addition, CEMEX volunteers facilitate habits and the integration of diverse and NGOs. interactive tours of their trucks, communities. During 2014, around 2,000 providing children a truck driver’s children enrolled in CEMEX athletic In addition, our home gardens initiative view and showing them blind spots. programs. | provides community members with Students also learn what hazard lights an opportunity to develop vegetable mean, the different parts of a truck cultivation skills and produce food that and safety precautions to take when encountering these large vehicles on enhances their family’s nutrition. the road. In 2014, 430 families in To date, Listo Tayo! has benefited Mexican communities more than 5,000 students in Rizal and Manila. benefited from our Home Gardens initiative. 39 Table of To Our Our Building Social Enviromental Values Into Stakeholder Additional Contents Stakeholders Business Solutions Strategy Excellence Actions Engagement Information 3.2 / Creating Social and Inclusive Business Opportunities CEMEX is dedicated to ensuring sustainability is fully embedded into every aspect of our business. That’s why, in addition to providing products and solutions that contribute to more sustainable cities, we go above and beyond, collaborating with local communities to ensure everyone has access to adequate resources. CEMEX is committed to the Our initiatives foster development of businesses with a purpose through social and inclusive business empowerment and opportunities that focus on providing the necessary tools and skills and bringing growth, creating lasting together citizens and local authorities to work on the issues society is facing. sustainable value. 40 Table of To Our Our Building Social Enviromental Values Into Stakeholder Additional Contents Stakeholders Business Solutions Strategy Excellence Actions Engagement Information Growing Platform 4 Savings and credit 4 Housing As urbanization increases, a growing 4 Employment number of households are located in 4 Basic services areas prone to flooding, earthquakes and hurricanes, among other natural disasters. For more than 15 years, we’ve implemented Unfortunately, inadequate housing is often high-impact social strategies. To expand common within these locations, leaving our efforts and address affordable housing community members unprepared when challenges, in the fall of 2014 CEMEX a crisis hits. In addition, many of these established Growing (Crecimientos in low income families don’t have access to Spanish). Growing is a platform for the basic services including electricity, water invention, development and promotion of and sanitation, and in some cases they social and inclusive business models that Enablement of Savings & Basic Credit Schemes Housing Employment Services work with governments, think tanks, NGOs lack full control over their land. and social entrepreneurs in countries where CEMEX is present. With the firm objective to contribute to the mitigation of poverty in our communities, As part of Growing, CEMEX partners with CEMEX has developed self-sustaining local, regional and global organizations business models in the construction to strengthen social entrepreneurship. Patrimonio Hoy Mejora Tu Calle Productive Construapoyo Assited SelfSocial Green industry. We work with low-income Through the different initiatives that Centers of Construction Franchise Technologies community members as partners, make up our Growing portfolio, we’re Self-Employment Integral Program (PCS) (PiAC) consumers and suppliers through a closer to our 2020 goal to improve the portfolio of programs that cover the quality of life of at least ten million people Inclusive Businesses Social Businesses following needs: worldwide. 41 Table of To Our Our Building Social Enviromental Values Into Stakeholder Additional Contents Stakeholders Business Solutions Strategy Excellence Actions Engagement Information Patrimonio Hoy insulating materials – concrete, cement With a combined total of 104 centers across Nicaragua, Patrimonio Hoy is our flagship inclusive blocks and steel – that would otherwise be Mexico, Colombia and Costa Rica, during 2014 more business that helps low-income families beyond their means. As of 2014, Patrimonio improve their quality of life through better Hoy had enabled US$ 285 million in than 5,300 families benefited from our PCSs. and dignified housing, realizing their household credits. In 2014, at least 44,000 dream of home ownership through a wellfamilies received support through the planned savings program. program, resulting in the construction of more than 377,000 m² of livable space. Nicaragua Implements its First PCS Patrimonio Hoy operates Productive Centers of in Domincan Republic, Self-Employment (PCS) For the first time the municipality of Ciudad Sandino, Nicaragua, rolled out Mexico, Colombia, To foster self-sufficient, sustainable our PCS program. Together, CEMEX, Nicaragua and Costa Rica. communities, CEMEX created town representatives, the Institute for Productive Centers of Self-Employment Urban and Rural Housing and local Combining the global presence of CEMEX (PCS). These spaces allow participants community members are rebuilding distribution with the power of microcredit, to produce concrete blocks and other the community. the program offers integral solutions to precast products, half of which they This PCS includes a total investment families by providing financial and technical can use to build, repair or expand their of US $45,000. In its first year assistance in the construction of their homes. Municipal or state governments of operation, it will support the homes. With more than 100 offices in Latin purchase the other half for infrastructure production of 360,000 blocks, America, Patrimonio Hoy enables families development. The resulting proceeds benefiting more than 400 families. to build or improve their homes quicker, are reinvested in the centers to make more efficiently and with more durable and them self-sustaining. 42 Table of To Our Our Building Social Enviromental Values Into Stakeholder Additional Contents Stakeholders Business Solutions Strategy Excellence Actions Engagement Information Due to its high performance, the eko-stove received accreditation from the Zamorano University Improved Stoves Certification Center, confirming a potential firewood reduction of around 80 percent compared to open fire. Construapoyo Assisted Self-Construction Integral To help low-income families play an Green Technologies Provide Access Through our Construapoyo program, Program (PiAC) active role in the construction of their to Basic Services CEMEX facilitates the distribution of Improving access to affordable housing homes and create more confident and Joining forces with social entrepreneurs, funds for the construction, repair and is a multi-dimensional challenge requiring united communities, PiAC integrates the CEMEX creates affordable community extension of homes with a prepaid debit numerous approaches. Many low-income following four components: solutions that provide access to basic card system, creating a transparent families not only lack access to financing services such as clean water, energy and process through which aid recipients are for purchasing building materials and 4 Productive Centers of waste, among others. able to purchase the building materials hiring masons, they also lack the Self-Employment (PCS) they need. technical skills needed to build safe and As a clear example of this commitment, sustainable houses. 4 Construapoyo in 2014 we introduced our own efficient As of 2014 more than 4 Housing Construction cookstove model, the CEMEX eko-stove. 32,000 families PiAC is designed to improve housing for low-income families by offering the training, funding and technical assistance Technical Assistance & Training Made out of concrete, our unique prototype offers a 40 percent larger cooking surface, uses a monolithic combustion chamber in Mexico and Colombia 4 Psychosocial Intervention they require to construct their own instead of multiples pieces and utilizes have benefited from this homes. Its business model is based on a & Evaluation cellular concrete versus pumice stone. program since it started. public-private partnership involving local The CEMEX eko-stove is more efficient, governments, non-profit organizations and takes less time to install, is more durable universities. and requires less maintenance than similar 500 families benefited in Mexico and For more information, please visit our models in the market. These concrete cookstoves provide a safe Colombia with PiAC in 2014. website. alternative to traditional cooking methods, 43 Table of To Our Our Building Social Enviromental Values Into Stakeholder Additional Contents Stakeholders Business Solutions Strategy Excellence Actions Engagement Information Social Entrepreneurship through Strategic Alliances To support more families in poverty and multiply our impact, we believe it’s vital to strengthen local and global partnerships that create new models of social and inclusive business, promote social entrepreneurship and foster innovation in community development. • The Grameen Creative Lab – CEMEX and The Grameen Creative Lab, a social enterprise founded by Nobel Peace Prize Laureate Muhammad Yunus, are exploring a new social business opportunity that promotes family-owned businesses. • Project Concern International (PCI) – CEMEX and PCI’s “neighborhood approach” will engage municipaland ministry-level partners, local universities, private companies and community-based organizations in collaborative efforts to transform high-risk urban neighborhoods into resilient, safe and productive communities. • Ashoka – Through an alliance with Ashoka, the largest network of social including open fires or rudimentary In 2014, CEMEX announced the entrepreneurs worldwide, CEMEX collaborates with NGOs and social entrepreneurs cookstove models, which lead to the installation of 100,000 ecological concrete across the globe to share knowledge and facilitate social and inclusive business premature death of four million people cookstoves to improve the quality of life opportunities. annually in developing countries. In of approximately half a million people • Banamex – Partnering with Banamex, we design, implement and evaluate diverse addition, the CEMEX eko-stove provides in Mexico and Guatemala by 2017. financial education programs that motivate entrepreneurship, business formation and numerous social, environmental and These efforts are part of our ongoing an overall healthy financial culture. economic benefits. It uses much less relationship with the Global Alliance for • UN-Habitat – Together, we focus on planning and building an urban environment wood, ultimately saving families money, Clean Cookstoves, an initiative that seeks that promotes economic growth and social development and reduces poverty and and reduces CO₂ and other harmful to foster the adoption of clean cookstoves inequality. emissions that affect air quality. The stoves and fuels in 100 million households • U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID) – Working together, also contribute to the scale-up of local globally by 2020. we are helping reduce levels of violence and improve the social development of businesses and organizations, creating communities. | jobs in project management/training, In addition, during 2014 CEMEX partnered manufacturing, marketing and distribution. with HELPS Mexico, the Government of San Luis Potosi and Stove Team In Guatemala, the CEMEX International to establish two factories CEMEX and PCI Partner to Transform Urban Slums and community programs to foster the eko-stove has been adoption of 33,000 concrete cookstoves PCI and CEMEX announced their plan to transform urban slums in the registered under the Swiss in the Mexican states of San Luis Potosi, developing world into resilient neighborhoods at the 2014 Clinton Global Program Gold Standard, Tamaulipas and Oaxaca by 2015. Initiative (CGI) Annual Meeting. The Urban Upgrading through Public Private Partnerships (UUPPP) program will execute dedicated efforts for this at the indicating that it is proven community level in pilot countries, providing low-cost loans to poor and to reduce CO2 emissions. vulnerable populations for construction and low-cost housing. 44 Table of To Our Our Building Social Enviromental Values Into Stakeholder Additional Contents Stakeholders Business Solutions Strategy Excellence Actions Engagement Information 3.3 / Generating Empowerment, Diversity and CapacityBuilding As a global business we understand the differentiated priorities and needs of our local communities. CEMEX aims to add public value by leveraging our business capabilities, our global network of employees and strategic alliances to enhance the We’ve created initiatives solutions we offer. across sectors that seek to provide vulnerable groups with a number of opportunities for growth. 45 Table of To Our Our Building Social Enviromental Values Into Stakeholder Additional Contents Stakeholders Business Solutions Strategy Excellence Actions Engagement Information Through our efforts, we’re strengthening the role of women, helping our youth develop skills that will increase employment opportunities and enhancing stakeholder outreach through national and international partnerships. For further information please visit, www.todassomosesperanza.org. Implementing Diversity Management Campaigns Our Social Inclusion Programs showcasing the stories of nearly 70 In 2014, CEMEX Poland created Capacity-Building Initiatives the 50+ Club to bring together women involved in the program. employees ages 50 and above. Empowering Women New Employment Opportunities The Club holds regular meetings, More than 27 years ago, CEMEX aligned Empowering Disabled Individuals workshops and competitions that for Youth with ANSPAC, a non-profit organization An inclusive program, UNIDOS fosters encourage members to share their Led by the Multilateral Investment Fund that provides technical training and collaboration between volunteers and knowledge and experience and (MIF), a member of the Inter-American guidance to women living near our people with physical disabilities, working serve as mentors. Members can Development Bank (IDB) Group along with cement plants. In 2014, more than 1,800 with organizations to incorporate disabled also take advantage of an awards the International Youth Foundation, the IDB’s women in four countries successfully individuals into activities and projects. program that provides them the Social Sector Department and corporate completed an eight-month training The program reached almost 800 CEMEX opportunity to receive co-funding partners Arcos Dorados, Caterpillar, program developed by ANSPAC to employees in Mexico, raising awareness for a development initiative of their Microsoft, Walmart and CEMEX, the New enhance their knowledge of health and of those with disabilities. choice. Nearly 300 employees are Employment Opportunities for Youth (NEO) enrolled in the 50+ Club. safety practices, develop their culinary program focuses on increasing job entry skills and improve their self-worth. As part of the program, CEMEX launched among poor and low-income youth. the workshop “Sensibiliza tu Seguridad” In addition, our In 2012, CEMEX Mexico developed Todas intended to share information regarding “Congruencia” program As a co-founder of NEO, we hope to Somos Esperanza, a program designed job safety. Between 2013 and 2014, more strengthen and expand the coverage of our incorporates those with to help empower women. After several than 3,300 employees received valuable development programs in the Latin American years of hard work, CEMEX witnessed information through 61 workshops .This disabilities into our and Caribbean countries in which we opera positive transformation in the lives of prevention initiative contributes to one of company, recognizing ate, providing more opportunities through many women and their families. To share our top priorities – the safety of employees people’s talent and initiatives such as our Productive Centers of these successes and inspire others, in and their stakeholders. Self-Employment (PCS), School of Construcskills regardless of their 2014 CEMEX decided to release a book tion and Development Community Centers. condition. 46 Table of To Our Our Building Social Enviromental Values Into Stakeholder Additional Contents Stakeholders Business Solutions Strategy Excellence Actions Engagement Information To date, “Building the Future” Foundation has supported 70 organizations awarding 154 grants. Mason Training Program and get their Driving Goods Vehicles Lend-a-Hand Volunteering Scheme in Our “The Factory of Ideas” grant In 2014, CEMEX Philippines continued apprentice certification before they are CEMEX UK competition for NGOs and schools its ‘Experto Ako’ program, providing then hired as full-time employees. Through the UK’s ‘Lend-a-Hand’ provides a clear set of rules that guide our free masonry training to masons scheme, every employee is allowed work with social organizations, ensuring within the community. The program, in Volunteering to take one volunteer day each year everyone has an equal opportunity to partnership with the Philippine Business to help a local charity. The program apply for support from CEMEX. for Social Progress and the Training Volunteer programs allow CEMEX also promotes team building, bringing Education and Skills Development employees to offer their talent, time and together small groups from across Through our Employee Volunteer Authority, helps masons enhance their leadership to make a difference in their the business to participate in a variety Program, CEMEX employees can apply craft and develop professional skills to communities. Of the countries in which of volunteer activities, from hospice for a grant that allows them to get involved improve the way they run their business we operate, almost 70 percent have decorating to refurbishing children’s in a local cause of their choosing. Working and manage finances. volunteering programs in place. playgrounds. In 2014, 316 UK together with local community members, employees participated in 43 projects, 58 volunteer teams in 26 locations have Apprentice Drivers Program ‘Manos a la Obra’ Volunteering leading to more than 2,500 hours of been rewarded so far. | In 2014, nine driver apprentices were Program in Mexico and Latin America community volunteering. hired as part of this scheme – a first for “Manos a la Obra,” is a CEMEX program the company and an industry leading that has led to nearly 7,000 volunteers Building the Future Foundation move. contributing approximately 33,000 hours For the last six years, CEMEX Poland’s across initiatives, benefiting more than Building the Future Foundation has This yearlong scheme is designed to 21,000 individuals. focused on a grant competition and help fill the need for more drivers in the volunteer program that support and UK, providing 18-24 year olds with the shape numerous environmental and opportunity to learn about our business social initiatives. 47 Table of To Our Our Building Social Enviromental Values Into Stakeholder Additional Contents Stakeholders Business Solutions Strategy Excellence Actions Engagement Information 4 / Pursuing Environmental Excellence for Responsible Growth 8 million tCO2 avoided vs. 1990 equivalent to offsetting the annual emissions of 1.5 million vehicles Specific emissions reduction vs. 2005 baseline: 55% Dust, 42% NOx and 60% SOx Biodiversity Action Plans implemented in 55% Almost 15% of our power of high biodiversity consumption comes from renewable energy sources value quarries 48 Table of To Our Our Building Social Enviromental Values Into Stakeholder Additional Contents Stakeholders Business Solutions Strategy Excellence Actions Engagement Information For CEMEX, reaching environmental excellence is a main objective. We dedicate significant efforts to address key sustainability-related issues, from biodiversity and conservation to renewable energy, climate change and emissions monitoring. In addition to the Sustainability Committee at the Board, CEMEX relies on an Environmental Council that identifies, informs and tackles issues including: • CEMEX Environmental Management System (EMS) • KPIs and standard protocols follow up • Emissions monitoring and reporting • Biodiversity and conservation efforts • Waste and water management • Regulation updates, trends and new technologies • Promotion of best practices throughout our operation 49 Table of To Our Our Building Social Enviromental Values Into Stakeholder Additional Contents Stakeholders Business Solutions Strategy Excellence Actions Engagement Information 4.1 / Optimizing our Carbon Footprint For years, we have focused on reducing our emissions, increasing energy efficiency in our operations, using loweremission alternatives to traditional fossil fuels, decreasing Energy recovery from waste in cement kilns our clinker factor and promoting renewable energy. can make a significant contribution to waste As part of our core strategy, we strive to implement sustainable construction management targets practices and develop products that help society meet green growth goals. and help local authorities address their climate change challenges. 50 Table of To Our Our Building Social Enviromental Values Into Stakeholder Additional Contents Stakeholders Business Solutions Strategy Excellence Actions Engagement Information Carbon Strategy Progress 84.3% Clinker Factor 76.5% 1990 2014 0.8% Alternative Fuel 27.7% 1990 2014 from Clinker Factor 4,803,639 Avoided Direct and from Alternative Fuels 2,741,850 We have significantly increased our consumption of renewable energy, we Indirect CO2 use of low-carbon alternative fuels, avoided more than 8 million tons of Emissions surpassing our CSI target of 15 percent CO₂ emissions. That’s comparable to in 2014 from Renewable Energy 560,513 alternative fuels usage by 2015, and offsetting the average annual emissions have set a new target to reach 35 of 1.5 million passenger vehicles. (tons) percent by 2020. Total 8,106,002 Our carbon emissions reduction efforts We also replace traditional energyhave been externally recognized. For intensive clinker with slag, fly ash and the third consecutive year, in 2014 Six Cement Plants and Nine Ready-Mix Installations pozzolans, contributing to a reduction CEMEX was named one of the best Latin in CEMEX USA Earned ENERGY STAR® in the CO₂ footprint of our cementitious American companies in terms of Climate products. In 2014, our overall clinker Change Data Disclosure by the Carbon In 2014, our plants in Brooksville (FL), Miami (FL), Clinchfield (GA), Fairborn (OH), factor was 76.5 percent, down from 84.3 Disclosure Project (CDP), ranking among Louisville (KY) and Victorville (CA) earned the EPA ENERGY STAR® certification, percent in 1990, and our emissions of the top eight companies. demonstrating that these facilities perform among the top 25 percent of US facilities of their kind for energy conservation. CO₂ per ton of cementitious products dropped by 22.6 percent compared to For more information, please visit In addition, nine ready-mix concrete plants across Texas (Iowa, Colony, Tomball, 1990, putting us on track to meet our 25 http://bit.ly/1Im8tnN Houston, Webster, Edinburg, San Benito and El Paso) and New Mexico (La Luz percent reduction target by 2020. and Ruidoso) achieved 10 percent or more energy reduction and qualified for the ENERGY STAR® Challenge for Industry award. Collectively, these nine CEMEX As a result of our 2014 initiatives to ready-mix plants cut energy intensity by an average of 21 percent through the reduce our clinker factor, increase the use of energy-efficient parts and equipment, such as dust collectors, conveyor use of alternative fuels and reduce belt pulleys and lighting. our indirect emissions through the 51 Table of To Our Our Building Social Enviromental Values Into Stakeholder Additional Contents Stakeholders Business Solutions Strategy Excellence Actions Engagement Information CEMEX, together with Fisterra Energy and private investors, completed the financing of Ventika wind farm. With a total investment of approximately US $650 million, the project ranks among wind farms with the highest power capacity in Mexico. Building our Renewable Energy process, which began in the second quarter Portfolio of 2014, and manage the wind farms when Expanding our Renewable Energy Portfolio operational in 2016. Under the self-supply In 2014, 14.6 percent of our power supply came from renewable energy. We have We know that increasing urbanization scheme approved by the Mexican Energy several projects and power purchase agreements including: and related construction will produce Regulatory Commission, the wind farm greenhouse gas emissions. That’s why will supply renewable energy to third party 4 250 MW Eurus wind farm in Mexico we’re leveraging our industry-leading facilities and CEMEX. The Ventika project is 4 7 MW wind portfolio in California technical expertise and skills to develop a a major advancement in the development of 4 30 MW waste-to-energy in Rüdersdorf, Germany strong renewable energy portfolio that we wind energy in Mexico and Latin America, 4 1.5 MW solar project in the Dominican Republic continue to expand. and is also a great example of the growing momentum of renewable projects globally. 4 6 MW hydro power portfolio in Colombia In 2014, we began operating a 1.5 MW 4 252 MW Ventika wind farm in the Northeast of Mexico under development solar unit for our cement plant in San CEMEX will continue 4 All electricity in Panama cement plant supplied by a hydro plant Pedro de Macoris, a province in the Dominican Republic. With more than 5,000 to develop other photovoltaic panels, the installation allows opportunities that are us to produce 2,200 MWh/year, equivalent equally committed to the energy consumption of 2,000 to reducing carbon homes. emissions and providing Ventika wind farm consists of two 126 MW a sustainable source of wind installations in Nuevo Leon, Mexico. energy for the countries in CEMEX will supervise the construction which we operate. 52 Table of To Our Our Building Social Enviromental Values Into Stakeholder Additional Contents Stakeholders Business Solutions Strategy Excellence Actions Engagement Information CEMEX Registered CDM & VCS Portfolio CEMEX Supports World Bank Group Initiative Project tCO2 /year Eurus Wind Farm 599,571 At the UN Secretary-General’s Climate Summit in 2014, CEMEX expressed its support of carbon pricing efforts led by the World Costa Rica Alternative Fuels 39,972 Bank Group, joining a growing coalition of leaders worldwide Ibague Alternative Fuels 146,798 speaking out for action on climate change. Zapotiltic Alternative Fuels 47,043 CEMEX believes that carbon pricing plays a crucial role in Egypt Alternative Fuels 416,528 climate change mitigation. In addition, it improves the efficiency of the economy, allowing for increased government investments Panama K1 Alternative Fuels 29,212 or tax reductions in other areas. With our statement of support, Merida Alternative Fuels 41,513 we are demonstrating our commitment to help protect our planet. Tepeaca Alternative Fuels 103,359 Expanding CDM & VCS Projects Dominican Republic Alternative Fuels 99,797 For additional information, please visit http://www.worldbank.org/en/programs/pricing-carbon Tamuin Biomass 47,853 Through programs such as the United Nations’ Clean Development Mechanism Huichapan Biomass 51,357 (CDM) and the Verified Carbon Standard Cucuta Biomass 42,307 (VCS), CEMEX has been working for Promoting the Use of our Carbon Atotonilco Alternative Fuels 68,759 more than a decade in the identification, Footprint Tool documentation and registration of projects Valles Alternative Fuels 45,926 that mitigate carbon emissions below Yaqui Alternative Fuels 65,470 Central to our CO₂ reduction efforts typical levels and generate equivalent is our Carbon Footprint Tool (CFT). It Guadalajara Biomass 40,325 offsets. helps us quantify the direct and indirect Ventika Wind Farm 244,110 amount of CO₂ emitted during the During 2014, CEMEX registered two production of our products on a cradleVentika II Wind Farm 244,110 additional projects under the Verified to-grave basis, including embedded Carbon Standard (VCS) program for their Panama K2 Alternative Fuels 70,883 CO₂ in raw materials, energy carriers, alternative fuel initiatives. The Brooksville Louisville Alternative Fuels 294,605 transports, etc. The CEMEX CFT is South and Demopolis cement plants being used in all cement, aggregate and Miami Biomass 73,035 will reduce emissions of anthropogenic ready-mix sites under our operational origin and avoiding methane emissions by Brooksville South Alternative Fuels 54,101 control and information is readily preventing the disposal or uncontrolled Demopolis Alternative Fuels 29,255 available to all CEMEX customers burning of materials such as wood, interested in the analysis of any product refuse-derived fuel and agricultural TOTAL Annual Reduction Potential 2,895,709 supplied by the company. | residues, among others. 53 Table of To Our Our Building Social Enviromental Values Into Stakeholder Additional Contents Stakeholders Business Solutions Strategy Excellence Actions Engagement Information 4.2 / From Waste to Fuel As part of our sustainability efforts, we continuously strive to find ways to meet the demands of a growing urban society without compromising the planet for future generations. Through co-processing We’re creating new purposes for materials that traditionally would have entered – the utilization of waste as a source of energy the landfill, providing our communities with an effective and secure way to alleviate – and the use of ashes the social, economic and environmental issues associated with municipal waste from combustion, we’re management. For example, our alternative fuels program is a key part of our reducing the use of sustainable manufacturing. extracted raw materials. 54 Table of To Our Our Building Social Enviromental Values Into Stakeholder Additional Contents Stakeholders Business Solutions Strategy Excellence Actions Engagement Information CEMEX Receives Global CemFuels Award For the fourth consecutive year, in 2014 CEMEX was recognized with a Global CemFuels Award for Alternative Fuels-Using Company of the Year. The award, which was voted for by industry participants, At CEMEX, we are not only increasing our use of celebrates organizations in the environmentally friendly and economically sound cement and lime industries that alternative fuels, but also building worldwide support for the enactment and enforcement of legislation that make using alternative fuels a top promotes the co-processing of waste that cannot priority. otherwise be reduced, reused or recycled. Improving our Processes CEMEX has become the CEMEX Global Alternative Fuels Substitution Rate leading user of alternative 30 Building upon the technological and fuels in the cement operational success of our most advanced 25 industry, replacing cement plants, we are evaluating and 20 upgrading our production lines at all traditional fuels like remaining plants to allow the use of fuels petcoke and coal with 15 in a broader compatibility and reduce their those that have a lower 27.7% consumption of traditional fossil fuels. A 10 carbon emission factor number of challenges including country 5 legislation, local environmental regulations, as well as carbon neutral alternative fuels permitting, community education, and alternatives, such as 0 rate in 2014 1990 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 transportation must be considered when biomass residues. substituting fossil fuels with alternative Our waste to fuel strategy exemplifies six-fold, from 5.1 percent in 2005 to fuels. That’s why we developed corporate how we apply the ideas that work best 27.7 percent in 2014. At year-end, 94 guidelines for the classification of fuels across all parts of our business and, in percent of our cement plants burned in our cement operations that comply the process, achieve better results for alternative fuels, avoiding the use with the Cement Sustainability Initiative our customers, our communities and our of 2.2 million tons of coal. Of our 46 (CSI) and local regulations. We have also shareholders. plants burning alternative fuels, nine implemented an engagement model to surpassed a 50 percent rate, five help community leaders understand the Over the past decade, our alternative of which achieved a rate above 65 logistical, technical and financial variables fuels substitution rate has risen almost percent. involved in our sourcing of alternative fuels. 55 Table of To Our Our Building Social Enviromental Values Into Stakeholder Additional Contents Stakeholders Business Solutions Strategy Excellence Actions Engagement Information Recognized University Confirms Alternative Fuels Reduce GHG Emissions In 2013, CEMEX started a collaboration with the Earth Engineering Center (EEC) of Columbia University and The City College of New York to execute a yearlong study of the life-cycle effects of alternative fuels in cement manufacturing, focusing on waste combustion technologies implemented in CEMEX kilns in the United States and Mexico. The study was carried out by faculty and graduate students at both institutions and included multiple visits to the cement plants, analysis of operating data, calorimetric tests and mathematical modeling of the behavior of sulfur, nitrogen, chlorine and carbon monoxide compounds through the cement kilns. Completed in 2014, the study concluded that the use of fuels derived from municipal solid wastes (MSW) in cement production has no adverse impact on the cement production process or the quality of the product. In fact, it reduces Our Chelm cement plant is the top performer in both greenhouse gas emissions by up to three tons of CO₂ per ton of MSW-derived the Polish cement industry and CEMEX operations worldwide. It co-processes about 300 kton/year of fuel used in place of a high-quality coal. municipal waste, allowing the plant to avoid nearly 100 ktons of coal. As part of these efforts, in 2014 CEMEX This ensures a stable, high-quality supply decided to build a new alternative fuels of alternative fuels sourced from regional CEMEX Mexico Recognized for Use of Alternative Fuels co-processing installation at our Chelm landfills. cement plant in Poland. Previously, to In 2014, the Greenhouse Gas emissions and achieving certified secure an adequate quantity of alternative In addition, since 2012 CEMEX Mexico Effect Program (i.e. Programa GEI performance indicators of carbon fuels, the plant had to work with many has used RDF (refused derived fuel), México) run by Mexico’s Ministry of emissions management. local and foreign suppliers. inorganic fractions of solid urban waste Environment and Natural Resources CEMEX Mexico such as paper, plastics and textiles, (SEMARNAT), the Commission of Thanks to the new project, as a source of alternative fuels in its Private Sector Studies for Sustainable GEI-2 award cement kilns. In 2014, CEMEX Mexico’s Development (CESPEDES) recognized Tepeaca and Guadalajara cement plants high-quality alternative fuel is now produced kilns consumed more than 170,000 tons CEMEX for its environmental achievements. GE-3 award of this waste, a 100 percent increase on the spot under the from the previous year. Thanks to this Under this program, CEMEX Mexico supervision of CEMEX jump and our commitment to the use received the GEI-2 award for its of alternative fuels, in 2014 we copersonnel. processed a total of 466,000 tons of progress in managing GHG emissions and complying with a verified varied waste into alternative fuels. inventory. In addition, the Tepeaca and Guadalajara cement plants won the GE-3 award for lowering GHG 56 Table of To Our Our Building Social Enviromental Values Into Stakeholder Additional Contents Stakeholders Business Solutions Strategy Excellence Actions Engagement Information Recovery and Recycling of Surplus and Scrap Aggregates in the Dominican Republic In an effort to reduce waste from concrete production and contribute to a cleaner planet, CEMEX developed a project at its Los Pintos, Dominican Republic ready-mix operation. With an investment of nearly US $35,000, the project recovered coarse aggregate from waste concrete and recycled it into new concrete Advancing our Waste Reduction recycled, meaning only 15 percent of the mixtures, furthering our waste Waste Management management efforts while also Management waste generated by our operations is sent to disposal sites. in Mexico reducing operating costs. At CEMEX, we dispose of the waste In 2014, a record was set for coThe result? The project reduced generated by our production processes in In 2014, our hazardous waste disposal processing at CEMEX Mexico. waste consumption by 44 accordance to local regulations. In terms increased from around 80 ktons to percent and generated savings of of operational waste streams, cement105 ktons due to changes in some local US $16,800 per year. In addition, kiln dust represents the largest amount environmental regulations requiring the Of the approximately the plant was able to substitute up of waste we produce. We try to reuse it reclassification of certain types of by1.1 million tons of to 17 percent of new aggregates in production and other processes as pass dust from the clinker process. The waste disposed with recycled aggregates per month, lowering its carbon footprint much as possible and seek to monitor, disposal of our non-hazardous waste, of, 42 percent was minimize, reuse and recycle all of our the most abundant waste we generate, by more than 100 tons of CO₂. wastes when possible. Efforts include: decreased more than 24 percent incorporated into • Monitoring of hazardous and noncompared to last year’s values, from alternative fuels hazardous waste generation in all of 637 ktons to 483 ktons. and the rest into our operations alternative raw Additionally, the volume of returned • Replacing primary aggregates with concrete material increased from 1.00 materials. other discarded materials (e.g. demolished concrete) percent in 2013 to 1.27 percent, and the These efforts eliminate negative • Reusing and recycling fresh concrete percentage of secondary and recycled impacts on the environment returned from construction sites aggregates used as a direct replacement associated with waste and of primary aggregates remained 0.21, increased our fuel portfolio and Thanks to these efforts, 85 percent of our same as in 2013. | flexibility. waste has been recovered, reused and 57 Table of To Our Our Building Social Enviromental Values Into Stakeholder Additional Contents Stakeholders Business Solutions Strategy Excellence Actions Engagement Information 4.3 / Minimizing Air Emissions and Enhancing our Environmental Management We are committed to doing whatever it takes to reduce our environmental footprint. As part of our ongoing efforts, we strive to: To evaluate how our • Monitor major and minor emissions operations are running and set goals that lead to • Improve our measurement methods significant environmental • Adapt to new and more stringent air emissions regulations, investing improvement, we must accordingly and executing required trainings (e.g. recent NESHAP regulations) measure and report our • Go beyond local regulations and set ambitious targets for emissions mitigation activities. 58 Table of To Our Our Building Social Enviromental Values Into Stakeholder Additional Contents Stakeholders Business Solutions Strategy Excellence Actions Engagement Information Preparing for Implementation of the NESHAP Rule The US EPA amended its National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants (NESHAP) for existing, new or reconstructed cement kilns in the US. The updated standards address mercury, total hydrocarbons (THC), hydrogen chloride (HCl) and particulate matter (PM) emissions and require the installation of continuous emissions monitoring systems (CEMS). The new emissions limits will significantly impact the operations of many US cement plants, including our own, as the September 9, 2015 compliance deadline quickly approaches. When the NESHAP rule was initially proposed, CEMEX began collecting and analyzing relevant emissions data and researching new emission control technologies. As a result of this research and in direct response to the NESHAP regulations, a cost-effective implementation strategy for reducing emissions was developed for each CEMEX US kiln. percent of our aggregates quarries Managing our Air Emissions implemented either the CEMEX EMS or A total investment of approximately US $155 million, 65 percent of which was equivalent programs. As we approach The cement manufacturing process already executed during 2014, NESHAP implementation strategy in CEMEX full implementation of our global EMS involves the release of nitrogen oxides USA includes changing raw materials (which requires little or no investment in 2020, our goal is that all CEMEX (NOx), sulfur compounds (SOx) and dust. cost), replacing outdated pollution-control technology, such as electrostatic facilities be 100 percent compliant with Other emissions, released in very small or precipitators and adopting proven technologies from other industries. our internal environmental criteria. negligible quantities, include dioxins, furans, volatile organic compounds and heavy To learn more about our internal EMS metals. To control our stack emissions and and our ongoing initiatives, please visit remain compliant with local and national Implementing CEMEX our operations. The CEMEX EMS consists our website. regulations, we have steadily expanded Environmental Management of key mechanisms for environmental System (EMS) impact assessment, stakeholder engagement and accident response based CEMEX France Receives Recognition To evaluate how our operations are upon input from a range of environmental for Environmental Management running and set goals that lead to and biodiversity specialists. The EMS is significant environmental improvement, compatible with similar standards such as In 2014, all CEMEX France sites successfully received ISO 14001 certification we must measure and report our ISO 14001 and the EU Eco-Management from ECOCERT Environment, a certification organization. CEMEX is the first activities. The objective of the CEMEX and Audit Scheme (EMAS). company within the building materials industry in France to certify all its sites. Environmental Management System (EMS) is to facilitate consistent, At the end of 2014, 97 percent of In addition, ECOCERT recognized CEMEX France’s fulfillment of the complete implementation of risk-based our cement plants, 70 percent of ISO 26000 standard as “exemplary.” environmental management tools across our ready-mix operations and 90 59 Table of To Our Our Building Social Enviromental Values Into Stakeholder Additional Contents Stakeholders Business Solutions Strategy Excellence Actions Engagement Information Environmental Incidents by Type Modernizing Measuring Stations in Croatia 1.2% 0.2% Dust 5.8% In February 2014, CEMEX Croatia invested a total of US $114,000 in new Fuel & chemical emission analyzers and meteorological instruments at automated air quality measuring stations in Kastela, Solin and Split. The data from these tools will Site operating conditions & disturbance be available via the Croatian Environment Agency’s network and the European Water Environment Agency’s network. As a result, these measuring stations now 18.2% Process waste & material 54.3% meet the European Commission’s strict criteria regarding mutual exchange of Other* information and reporting on air quality. 20.3% * Micro Pollutant and Air Emission Related Incidents our emissions monitoring efforts at Through our internal Environmental Environmental Incidents management processes, we steadily manufacturing operations. In 2014, 84 Management System (EMS), we monitor Management decreased our annual Category 1 percent of our clinker was produced with our major emissions to ensure we incidents from 19 in 2008, when we first continuous monitoring of major emissions are below local regulation limits. Our We believe reporting environmental began reporting, to zero in 2014. We are (dust, NOx and SOx), while 81 percent was Stack Emissions Report consolidates incidents is the first step towards reducing now prioritizing the reduction of Category produced with monitoring of both major the information received from all of our their occurrence and severity. 2 and 3 incidents using root-cause and minor emissions. Our 2020 target kilns, serving as a global platform that analysis, training and continuing process is to ensure 100 percent of our clinker is shares every operation’s emissions and Through rigorous efforts to standardize improvements. | produced with continuous monitoring of monitoring techniques (e.g. continuous, implementation of our environmental major emissions, a goal that involves an spot tests). Based on the data estimated investment of US $7.5 million. collected, specific actions to minimize 2012 2013 2014 emissions are defined. In 2014, we invested US $85 million in Category 1 1 0 0 sustainability-related projects at our To further improve upon these efforts, operations across the globe, including in 2014 CEMEX set 2020 targets for Category 2 52 87 39 more than 20 initiatives designed to the reduction of major emissions. The improve our air emissions management new targets compare yearly emissions performance. We also participated in values to a 2005 baseline to determine Environmental Category 3 323 357 313 multi-stakeholder discussions within our the percentage of reduction for dust, Incidents Trend sector to address the handling of dioxins NOx and SOx. These yearly goals ensure and mercury emissions and aligned CEMEX consistently performs below Complaints 74 136 81 our emissions disclosures with the CSI required levels. reporting protocol. Total 450 580 433 60 Table of To Our Our Building Social Enviromental Values Into Stakeholder Additional Contents Stakeholders Business Solutions Strategy Excellence Actions Engagement Information 4.4 / Conserving Land, Biodiversity and Water Protecting the natural resources society relies on is an important part of the sustainable development of urban environments. Rapid urbanization, climate change, energy Natural ecosystems are intrinsically valuable and provide essential services demand, biodiversity loss and water scarcity to people, sequestering carbon, providing fresh water and supporting food are global issues that will production and disease prevention. exert significant demands on businesses and society over the next decades. 61 Table of To Our Our Building Social Enviromental Values Into Stakeholder Additional Contents Stakeholders Business Solutions Strategy Excellence Actions Engagement Information New Water Conservation System at Balcones Cement Plant Water Footprint (million cubic meters) 2014 Specific Water Consumption In 2014, CEMEX Balcones cement each year. In addition, the system Total withdrawals plant began the construction of a new 10,000 gallons per minute (GPM) Fine Aggregate Washing & Recovery will significantly reduce the silt management area pond and lower overall operating costs. 50 Total discharges Total consumption 360 l/ton Cement 185 l/m Ready-mix 40 System. The new recovery system 30 is designed to recycle at least 75 3 percent of wash water back into the 132 l/ton Aggregates 20 plant’s operation, reducing water 10 consumption from the Edwards and Trinity Aquifers by millions of gallons 0 Cement Ready-Mix Aggregates Managing Water to Minimize Use To obtain more robust metrics, our water-related risks are highest and there is Implementing Biodiversity operations must fully understand and the most significant business impact. We Action Plans Water is of paramount importance to embrace our methodology. In 2015, also plan on setting new targets that allow CEMEX. It makes up approximately 25 we will continue to provide guidance to more efficient water management. Biodiversity Action Plans (BAPs) are percent of concrete mixtures and is used our operations through the creation of CEMEX’s principal tool for achieving in several stages during the production a holistic water management plan that a net positive impact on biodiversity. process of cement, ready-mix and prioritizes countries and sites where CEMEX and BirdLife International have aggregates as well as for cleaning plants, created a standard for the development trucks and equipment. To protect this natural of BAPs to ensure individual operations resource and help our business flourish, Water Efficiency Projects in Alicante Factory are able to thoroughly and systematically we must increase our water efficiency and produce their own tailored to the control our water waste. In 2014, the CEMEX plant in Alicante, In addition, the installation replaced particular biodiversity values associated Spain, implemented two new existing cooling towers at the drying with the operations and challenges In 2014, we continued to implement our projects focused on responsible plant with an alternative, closed they face. This work is guided by our Corporate Water Policy across operations, water practices. circuit cooling system. Preventing Corporate Biodiversity Policy, which is including standardization of our water the losses previously caused by fully integrated into our business model measurement based on the Water To start with, the company began evaporation, this new system will in all countries and operations, and collecting excess water released eliminate the use of approximately Protocol developed in coordination with aligned with the Convention on Biological during the drying process of wet 70,000 m³ per year of drinking water, the International Union for Conservation Diversity (CBD) and its Aichi Biodiversity sewage sludge. Approximately allowing this precious resource to of Nature. As a result of our efforts we´ve 50,000 m³ of excess water was be used by the community and also Targets. reduced our specific water consumption captured and used for irrigation on generating significant cost savings. by 22 percent for aggregates, 6 percent nearby farms. Detailed information on our work and how for ready-mix and 4 percent for cement or policy aligns with the Aichi Targets, compared to 2013 figures. please visit http://bit.ly/1RQXeIc. 62 Table of To Our Our Building Social Enviromental Values Into Stakeholder Additional Contents Stakeholders Business Solutions Strategy Excellence Actions Engagement Information Mossend Ready-mix Plant Takes Advantage of Rain Water The CEMEX Mossend Ready-Mix plant A number of waste-saving measures • Setting up an extra stirrer tank and near Glasgow, Scotland was prone to were adopted including: curb to capture rainwater for use flooding, especially when a heavy rain in concrete production, instead of hit. To eliminate the risk and waste • Implementing a stone-washing letting it flow down the drain water management became a top process for cleaning drums rather priority. than using water These conservation measures have pushed water consumption well below The plant set a goal to reduce its water • Installing an automatic timer on the the target, resulting in more savings consumption from an average of 228 hose used to fill header tanks and a safer environment. to 140 l/m3. © Santiago Gibert assessment and agreed that a and the installation of artificial floating community-based cacti nursery will islands that will provide more nesting 2014 BAP Implementation be set up close to the quarry. Native opportunities to bird species. Progress plants will be used to restore the • In the UK, chalk grassland restoration quarry as well as the banks of a river has begun to provide a quality habitat In 2014, we continued our work to running through the site. for priority species including the Reddevelop quarry rehabilitation plans for our • In Malaysia, the BAP is helping to billed Chough, a rare member of the active cement and aggregates quarries. raise awareness about the importance crow family. We also continued taking action to of one of BirdLife International’s enhance the biodiversity in and around • For other countries with high priority designated Important Bird and CEMEX sites such as Colombia our quarries located in or close to high Biodiversity Areas (IBAs) with key and the Czech Republic, partner biodiversity value areas and started new stakeholders, including CEMEX agreements, plans, training and BAP projects at these key quarries. To employees, through advocacy budgets were put into place as part of date, 94 percent of our active quarries meetings and outreach. a concerted effort towards achieving have a rehabilitation plan in place and 55 • In Mexico, where the Golden Eagle our global target of having BAPs in percent of our 80 active quarries identified was identified as a top priority species, place at 100 percent of our active sites within or adjacent to high biodiversity nesting sites around the quarry were in areas of high biodiversity value. value areas have a BAP in place. mapped and a national workshop was held, promoting greater understanding Additionally, we continued developing the of Golden Eagle numbers across the BAPs that we started in 2012. country. • In Spain, plans have been made to • Our partnership project in the renovate a riparian forest beyond Dominican Republic completed ongoing restoration efforts, including a comprehensive biodiversity the construction of nesting boxes 63 Table of To Our Our Building Social Enviromental Values Into Stakeholder Additional Contents Stakeholders Business Solutions Strategy Excellence Actions Engagement Information CEMEX and BirdLife International have created a standard for the development of BAPs. Supporting the European Union’s It also: 2014 Partnership for Nature and People Portfolio Nature Conservation Policy • Recognizes the importance of EU Mexico – Dom. Rep.– Malaysia – UK – Raynes Spain – Soto Cerrito Blanco Las Salinas Bukit Tambun Pajares nature legislation in establishing a In recognition of the value and continent-wide level playing field, as BirdLife Partner Jan-12 Apr-12 Mar-12 Aug-13 Nov-11 Engaged BAP achievements of our national partnerships well as in helping companies improve with BirdLife, BirdLife Europe and CEMEX their environmental performance. Scope of work agreed issued a joint statement wholeheartedly • Acknowledges the positive role Work plan defined supporting the European Union’s Nature that leading businesses can play in Conservation Policy. the preservation and management Stakeholders Identified of Natura 2000 sites and the & Engaged conservation of biodiversity. The joint statement Desktop analysis • Emphasizes that both biodiversity emphasizes that the EU’s and minerals are inherently local and Baseline Field surveys solid legal frameworks because of that reconciling the needs Prioritization of for nature conservation, of conservation and extractive industry habitats/species requires a strategic approach to land starting with the EU’s Birds planning, at an appropriate scale in Actions & Targets defined and Habitats Directives, order to minimize negative impacts are good for both the and potential conflicts. BAP documented planet and for business. To read the complete joint statement, visit Implementation http://bit.ly/1J9Ihep Reporting In Place In Progress 64 Table of To Our Our Building Social Enviromental Values Into Stakeholder Additional Contents Stakeholders Business Solutions Strategy Excellence Actions Engagement Information Nine CEMEX USA Sites Receive Wildlife Habitat Council Certification In November 2014, nine CEMEX Seven of our sites received their USA sites received certifications recertification for Wildlife at Work: through two Wildlife Habitat Council 474 Sand Mine (FL), Brooksville programs. Five sites were recertified South Operations (FL), Center with the WHC’s Corporate Lands for Hill Mine (FL), FEC Quarry (FL), Learning program: 474 Sand Mine Gator Sand Mine (FL), Lake Wales (FL), Brooksville South Operations Sand Mine (FL), and Clinchfield (FL), FEC Quarry (FL), Fairborn Cement Plant (GA). The Wildlife at Cement Plant (OH), and Knoxville Work certification acknowledges Cement Plant (TN). This certification programs that create, conserve recognizes programs for their and restore habitats with the exemplary conservation education involvement of employees and and outreach opportunities provided members of the community. Today, El Carmen is one of the most important to local communities. biodiversity hotspots and trans-boundary ecosystems in the world. Preserving El Carmen In 2014, El Carmen: For 14 years, CEMEX has been preserving 4 Learned from the efforts of a Master in Science research project focusing on the nature and sharing its wonder through valuation of environmental services that the biodiversity and landscape within El El Carmen, a private trans-boundary Carmen provide an estimated value of US $25.7 million per year. In 2015, additional ecological services such as carbon sequestration and water recharge will be conservation area in Mexico owned and explored. managed by CEMEX and other private landowners. 4 Transplanted Desert Bighorn Sheep and Mule Deer to increase free-ranging wildlife populations. Comprising five different ecosystems, the 4 Installed two wildlife water guzzlers incorporating the latest theories in reliability. The wilderness reserve is home to a myriad expansive collection aprons are capable of gathering in excess of 1,000 gallons of species of plants, birds, mammals, water from one inch of rainfall with a storage capacity of approximately 4,600 gallons reptiles and amphibians. at each site. 4 Received support from more than 40 volunteers from the Mule Deer Foundation and With an area of 140,356 hectares, the other organizations. reserve is eight-times larger than the amount of area CEMEX has dedicated to In addition to this, CEMEX seeks to manage our biodiversity footprint through BAPs, operations worldwide. EIAs and EMS at the local level. 65 Table of To Our Our Building Social Enviromental Values Into Stakeholder Additional Contents Stakeholders Business Solutions Strategy Excellence Actions Engagement Information CEMEX UK and RSPB Work to Save Twite from Extinction A small brown bird, the Twite is the rarest English breeding bird and one of only two English songbirds that feed their chicks entirely on seeds. At CEMEX’s Dove Holes quarry in Derbyshire, a small population of The jaguar is one of the species endangered and Twite have found their home. In part of the IUCN Red List. 2014, CEMEX began their second year working with the RSPB, a member of BirdLife International, The IUCN Red List: fungi species and one of our best weapons to restore the surrounding flower50 Years of Conservation to address and counter the rich meadow to help feed this extinction crisis. rare bird. This second edition of the CEMEX Nature Series continues the tradition Through this of excellence that won recognition for the company’s celebrated 20-volume book, CEMEX CEMEX Conservation Series. The book invites you combines stunning wildlife photography to actively with the voices of the International Union participate in for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) experts and renowned conservationists to the future of our celebrate 50 years of outstanding effort planet and take and achievement by a worldwide network action to protect of scientists and partner organizations that and celebrate its together build and maintain The IUCN Red List of Threatened Species produced by amazing natural the Species Survival Commission (SSC). diversity. The IUCN Red List has become the most comprehensive source of information on To download a free e-book version please the status of the world’s plant, animal and visit http://bit.ly/1P1rMrT | 66 Table of To Our Our Building Social Enviromental Values Into Stakeholder Additional Contents Stakeholders Business Solutions Strategy Excellence Actions Engagement Information 5/ Embedding Our Core Values into Every Action About 95% 760 Our LTI Rate improved by More than 33% for Employees and of our purchases were initiatives implemented 18,000 23% for Contractors from locally and nationally based suppliers during the year to increase employee engagement ethics-related training sessions performed in 2014 67 Table of To Our Our Building Social Enviromental Values Into Stakeholder Additional Contents Stakeholders Business Solutions Strategy Excellence Actions Engagement Information At CEMEX, we believe not only in making strong sustainability commitments, but in taking action to ensure we fulfill those commitments. We are an organization of people with unmatched passion and integrity, with values that result in respectful and productive relationships. Our employees are our competitive advantage. Without them, leaders cannot meet objectives and we cannot fulfill our commitments. That is why we strive to hire the best and take care of them. Ensure CEMEX Values: safety Act with Focus on integrity customers Work as Pursue one CEMEX excellence 68 Table of To Our Our Building Social Enviromental Values Into Stakeholder Additional Contents Stakeholders Business Solutions Strategy Excellence Actions Engagement Information 5.1 / Placing Health and Safety First In our recently revised CEMEX Vision, we’ve made safety the top priority, developing principles that guide our H&S behavior: To date, our operations have shared more • Ensure nothing comes before the health & • Strive to create a workplace than 500 examples of safety of our people, contractors and the with zero injuries and fatalities positive health and safety community • Maintain accountability for practices globally. • Make safety a personal responsibility; look safety practices after yourself and each other 69 Table of To Our Our Building Social Enviromental Values Into Stakeholder Additional Contents Stakeholders Business Solutions Strategy Excellence Actions Engagement Information In 2014, CEMEX continued to implement the employee LTI Rate to 0.3 or less by The loss of any employee, contractor Recognizing that our global Health and Safety Management 2020, placing an even greater focus on or third party associated with our contractors account System (HSMS), updating the minimum the need to minimize these events. We operations is extremely saddening and standards for Personal Protective are encouraged to see that some CEMEX is something we are continuing to work for the majority of Equipment (PPE) and the management of sites have already achieved this goal. In to avoid every day. We are extremely operations-related traffic on CEMEX premises. In both cases, fact, 15 countries currently have achieved saddened to report that there were fatalities, the Global an emphasis is placed on developing a rate of zero. 27 fatalities in 2014 – 4 employees, 17 Cement Operations Safety solutions that control risks at their source. contractors and 6 third parties. We are also improving communication The 2014 CEMEX Total Recordable Injury Taskforce launched a surrounding incidents, including key (TRI) Frequency Rate was 5.6 compared Focusing on Zero global campaign in 2014 learning points and best practices. to 5.9 in 2013. specifically aimed at We will not be satisfied until we have making sure each cement Incidents: Lost Time Injuries Four regions and 15 reached the goal of zero fatalities and and Fatalities injuries in our operations and road plant has robust systems countries reduced their transportation activities. That is why in and processes in place Our ultimate target remains zero injuries TRI Rates, with seven 2013, we created the Global Cement to effectively manage worldwide – what we call our “Zero4Life” countries maintaining a Operations Safety Taskforce and the contractors. commitment. While we face many rate of zero. Global Road Transportation Safety challenges, we are making positive Taskforce to identify and mitigate risks steps forward. In 2014, our Contractor related to transportation and operations. The campaign helps business units Lost Time Injury Rate was down 23 In addition, the global Employee Sickness Both of these taskforces are designed assess the capabilities and competencies percent and our Employee Lost Time Absence Rate for CEMEX remained the to enhance communication about of contractors who perform work on Injury Rate improved 33 percent, from same as 2013, however 17 countries workplace hazards and risk management behalf of CEMEX and works with them 1.8 to 1.2. We have set a goal to reduce reduced their national rate. approaches to bring CEMEX closer to our to ensure CEMEX health and safety goal of zero fatalities and injuries. standards are met. Guidance is provided 70 Table of To Our Our Building Social Enviromental Values Into Stakeholder Additional Contents Stakeholders Business Solutions Strategy Excellence Actions Engagement Information The Taskforce implemented trials of the Mobileye collision avoidance technology, which uses sophisticated vision algorithms to provide drivers with immediate real-time evaluation and warnings Philippines Institute 360o so they can avoid accidents. Truck Inspection Process for evaluating a contractors’ safety countries to report their implementation Our H&S leadership training course, A good practice that has been record, monitoring their performance and of global initiatives. All countries are LEGACY, continues to be the foundation shared globally is the truck safety ensuring that procurement processes using this system and that information is of our safety practices with all leaders, inspection and defects reporting contain the rigor to ensure contractors are now available to management teams in from executives to supervisors, required system that has been implemented held accountable for meeting health and participating countries and regions as well to complete the course. in the Philippines to help ensure the roadworthiness of vehicles safety expectations. as to our Executive Committee. and reduce the risks of vehicular We also continue to offer a Visible Felt accidents. This procedure is In 2014, the Global Road Transportation Making H&S a Business Leadership (VFL) training course to applicable to all cement and raw Safety Taskforce identified roll-overs at Management Priority provide senior leaders with strategies material trucks that enter the plant tipping stations as an increasing threat to they can use to communicate their premises for loading or delivery, workers, issuing guidance to reduce the In 2014, CEMEX revised the CEMEX commitment to H&S and influence respectively. risk of these incidents. Global Health & Safety Policy to include a employee behavior within our operations. statement of commitment to help ensure Trained personnel conduct an They also established guidelines in everyone affected by our operations is In 2014, we captured the spirit of inspection of trucks and help managing fatigue for CEMEX and kept safe at all times. our LEGACY training course for line ensure compliance of drivers and contracted drivers. All CEMEX Operations managers and developed a new course truck helpers to health and safety policies. Defects are reported will be required to follow the established Management is responsible for ensuring entitled E-LEGACY where the “E” stands to the hauling company or truck minimum standards, including maximum that H&S is the overriding priority and for “everyone.” This non-technical, owners for immediate rectification limits on driving hours as well as minimum that businesses implement, monitor interactive program is designed to help and facilities are strictly requirements for driver rest. and review the effectiveness of controls front-line employees embrace H&S implementing a policy where trucks designed to eliminate or minimize risks as a personal value, assess risks and must have a “Clearance–Safe for To help management monitor progress to our workforce or those affected by our embrace a safe and healthy lifestyle. Hauling” designation to proceed. related to transportation safety, the business activities. Based on the success of the course task force created a tracking tool for in the US and the UK, the program 71 Table of To Our Our Building Social Enviromental Values Into Stakeholder Additional Contents Stakeholders Business Solutions Strategy Excellence Actions Engagement Information Promoting a Healthy Work Environment Audits, Inspections Leadership & of operations have an annual preventive health program & Continuous Accountability Improvement 96% planned out every year. Incident Risk Investigation, Management of operations have a qualified professional onsite or with Reporting & Prevention 93% access to an external health provider. Emergency Regulation of operations are provided with a document that lists Management Policies and explains job-specific occupational health risks and 89% the exams needed to identify early signs of occupational disease before, during and after hiring. Operational H&S Control Driving Safety of operations provide information regarding the education, training, counseling, prevention and risk-control programs 96% Policy Standard related to serious diseases in place to assist workforce Contractor Operating Management members, their families and community members. Procedures of operations have a formal process in place to identify, 99% assess and control operational safety risk. Document Health Control People, Communication Training & & Consultation Behaviours Six Health & Safety Expectations from our CEO In the summer of 2014, our CEO, Fernando González, Expectations for managers are outlined in identified six things he expects all employees will do 14 categories and include a set of performance to truly make H&S a way of life and a source of pride requirements and supporting guidelines. for CEMEX. will become a requirement for every More than 64 percent of our employees are 1. Make H&S a business management priority CEMEX employee worldwide in 2015. represented in formal joint managementThis, together with a number of other worker H&S committees. As a part of these 2. Get to know our H&S Management System intimately common initiatives and the individual committees, workers, line supervisors, 3. Benchmark all around regional and national improvement plans managers and union representatives meet will help us progress further and we on a regular basis to listen to employee 4. Have an annual H&S Improvement plan in every site anticipate we will be able to continue concerns and review and enforce health growing a positive health and safety and safety procedures and performance, 5. Keep management informed of H&S issues in real-time culture in our organization. formulation and implementation of programs. 6. Raise your hand and share good practices 72 Table of To Our Our Building Social Enviromental Values Into Stakeholder Additional Contents Stakeholders Business Solutions Strategy Excellence Actions Engagement Information Global Health & Safety Awards 2014 Winners by Country Business Unit Size Award Type 1st Place 2 nd Place 3rd Place Best Austria Hungary Thailand 1-500 Performance Employees Most Hungary & Latvia Bangladesh Jamaica Improved Best Poland Panama France 500+ Performance Employees Most Panama Poland France Improved CEMEX USA Safety Culture CEMEX 2014 Global Health Product Safety CEMEX Nicaragua and Safety Awards In 2014, CEMEX senior management Awarded with CEMEX strives to consistently ensure that in the US made a commitment to At CEMEX, we’re willing to do whatever H&S Prize all our products are safe to transport, establish a stronger CEMEX USA it takes to ensure the wellbeing of all store, handle, use and dispose of. To Safety Culture. The first step in employees, contractors and individuals Nicaragua ensure our products are up to standard, this journey was restructuring the we interact with throughout our daily For six consecutive years, we abide by all applicable local legislation H&S organization under common activities. To keep up with best practice, CEMEX Nicaragua has won the and disclose all relevant information. leadership. Reporting lines were Leader in Health and Safety it’s important that we share successes, Our operations have adopted policies changed and an independent safety Prize awarded by the National committee, focused on driving highlighting the most effective programs to ensure that H&S requirements are and initiatives across our operations. We Council of Hygiene and Safety considered in product design and we excellence and standardization, was (the CNHST in Spanish). established mid-year. are pleased to announce the winners have also developed Material Safety Data of the CEMEX 2014 Global Health and Sheets that describe potential hazards The company trains its workers In addition, a First Motion Forward Safety Awards. to identify risks and prevent and precautions to take when handling parking policy was implemented incidents, emphasizing safe each of our products. | nationwide along with other key handling practices and the initiatives developed to reduce injury use of personal protective rates. Overall, 94 percent of CEMEX equipment. USA locations did not have a Lost Time Injury in 2014. There remains work to do, but the momentum is building and our vision of Zero4Life is becoming a reality. 73 Table of To Our Our Building Social Enviromental Values Into Stakeholder Additional Contents Stakeholders Business Solutions Strategy Excellence Actions Engagement Information 5.2 / Satisfied Customers and Responsible Suppliers At CEMEX we create value by leveraging our global portfolio of cement, ready-mix, aggregates and related products and solutions. Nonetheless, to be a truly solutions-driven We are investing time company means more than simply producing and selling our into building strong products. It’s about connecting with our entire value chain. relationships, actively listening to make sure At CEMEX, our core strategic goal is to become the most customer-oriented company in we fully understand our industry. Our success is directly dependent on theirs, meaning that in all of our markets customers’ needs. we must become our customers’ best option. 74 Table of To Our Our Building Social Enviromental Values Into Stakeholder Additional Contents Stakeholders Business Solutions Strategy Excellence Actions Engagement Information Across our operations, we challenge and support local commercial teams to achieve ambitious goals and ensure our company effectively invests in tools and technologies to improve customer service and productivity. What are the challenges our customers continuously looking for ways to expand Additionally, during the The program consists of four key phases: are facing? What does success mean to and provide new customer-centric courses year we implemented • Surveying suppliers regarding Corporate them? What products and services do that create results and value for our more than 220 initiatives Social Responsibility (CSR) and financial they need today and down the road? It customers now and down the line. topics. (30% more than last year) is up to us to know the answers to these • Enacting a communication campaign questions. That means we are investing Our recently launched Global Networks to identify customers’ based on the survey results. time into building strong relationships, allow us to take advantage of our shared needs and concerns and • Reinforcing awareness of specific actively listening to make sure we fully knowledge and scale, creating even more work on keeping a high policies that incorporate aspects of understand customers’ needs and value for our company and our stakeholders sustainability including human rights, satisfaction level. ensuring that our products and solutions through global collaboration and integration. labor and antitrust, as well as the Code are of only the highest quality. It means One of our strategic working groups, The of Conduct when Doing Business with that, when a customer has an issue, we Cement Commercial Network shares Promoting Supplier Sustainability us, based on our CEMEX Code of have the organizational resources and experiences and identifies practices and Ethics and the UN Global Compact 10 processes in place to resolve that issue processes that we can replicate and Four years ago we launched the Supplier principles. quickly and effectively. leverage to better serve our customers. Sustainability Program to promote the • Preparing a scorecard to track and importance of sustainable practices reward sustainable suppliers. To help us achieve these customerWe are also working to develop enduring across our supply chain. Extending focused goals, the CEMEX Commercial relationships with our customers, while we CEMEX’s commitments, practices and As part of the program, we work with Council was created to promote and align continue to design, develop, and deliver beliefs to our suppliers, we’re fostering a third-party sustainability supply all initiatives and ensure these efforts products, services, and solutions that meet a sustainable, reliable network. Since management firm that monitors suppliers receive expert support and guidance. We or exceed their expectations. Consistent the Supplier Sustainability Program in terms of social, environmental, ethical are investing considerable time and effort to this clear objective, 78 percent of our was created in 2010, more than 2,100 and financial performance. Once evaluated, in commercial excellence across our global countries conducted customer satisfaction suppliers in 24 countries have been invited suppliers receive an individual report organization. Our Commercial Academy is surveys in 2014. to participate. identifying areas for growth. They are then 75 Table of To Our Our Building Social Enviromental Values Into Stakeholder Additional Contents Stakeholders Business Solutions Strategy Excellence Actions Engagement Information Our dialogue with suppliers CEMEX France Commits to the Responsible doesn’t end there. Via the suppliers section on CEMEX. Supplier Relations Contract com, we maintain an open communication channel through which suppliers’ ideas are CEMEX France signed the For CEMEX, signing this contract made submitted, shared and evaluated. Responsible Supplier Relations it possible to develop a partnershipContract designed to encourage based relationship with suppliers and companies to adopt responsible facilitate the settlement of any disputes practices when working with through an SME internal mediator. The their suppliers and develop contract naturally supplements CEMEX sustainable, balanced and trusting France’s commitment to the ISO 26000 relationships. standard, requiring exemplary conduct in purchasing practices. expected to develop a plan of action To date: Supporting Small and Medium Integrating our Suppliers’ Ideas to improve their performance in future • Countries representing 95 percent Enterprises (SMEs) evaluations. The goal is to evaluate under of CEMEX’s spend check for key Through our Suppliers Innovation Program, our Supplier Sustainability Program subcontractors’ compliance with the In partnership with the Tecnológico we’ve developed Integrate Your Ideas, at least 55 percent of the company’s company’s health and safety standards. de Monterrey, CEMEX developed designed to promote the development of procurement and energy spend by 2020. • Countries representing 68 percent empresarse.com, a web based learning ideas that lead to continuous improvement of CEMEX’s spend have a formal community that shares and promotes and efficiency. In 2014, more than 1,200 suppliers program in place to train suppliers and Corporate Social Responsibility received some form of CSR assessment. contractors on sustainability issues. knowledge to SMEs. The site offers In 2014, approximately 400 suppliers were The analysis concluded that 70 percent resources and tools to any SME that invited to share their innovative ideas. Mondi of the countries where CEMEX operates Sourcing Local Products wishes to develop of socially responsible Kraft Paper was one of three winners, use formally recognized sustainability and Services business to generate economic, social recognized for its “The Future is High Porous criteria in the selection of suppliers and and environmental value. During 2014, Concept” featuring bags made of Mondi’s contractors. In 2014, 95 percent of our purchases were more than 170 of our suppliers in Mexico high-porous kraft paper, which offers from locally and nationally based suppliers. used this platform to assess their CSR increased strength and improved operating To ensure no area goes underserved, We believe that local sourcing is an integral commitment and based on the generated performance. In 2014, Mondi produced 50 we have included Human Rights, Labor, part of a sustainable business practice. It results identify their opportunity areas and percent of its bags based off this model, Antitrust and Sustainability clauses in our creates jobs, stimulates local economies define an improvement plan. reducing our paper bags consumption in contracts and purchase orders. and helps develop new skills among Mexico by seven percent. local workers. Our procurement teams participate regularly in regional events to In 2015, we will launch the second edition of identify new suppliers. Integrate Your Ideas to once again showcase unique ideas that foster a climate of growth and innovation. 76 Table of To Our Our Building Social Enviromental Values Into Stakeholder Additional Contents Stakeholders Business Solutions Strategy Excellence Actions Engagement Information 5.3 / Engaging and Retaining our Talent At CEMEX, we value our employees. Our people are our competitive advantage and the reason we are successful. That is why we hire the best and the brightest, and we take care of them. We are a dynamic organization that provides growth opportunities for our people, helping We have more than them fulfill personal career ambitions. We identify future leaders, enabling and encouraging 44,000 employees them to develop innovative processes and assess risks and opportunities for improvement across the globe. among our operations. In addition, we foster an open dialogue at all times, encouraging our employees to raise questions and speak up when something is off track and provide ideas for how to solve issues that may arise. 77 Table of To Our Our Building Social Enviromental Values Into Stakeholder Additional Contents Stakeholders Business Solutions Strategy Excellence Actions Engagement Information Our employee Engagement Initiatives engagement in Poland implemented initiatives reached more than 28,000 employees In 2014, CEMEX Poland’s worklife balance initiatives reached worldwide in 2014. more than 80 percent of its total internal employees and included: • Improvement of overtime management • Additional days off for child care and child birth • Financial support for vacation and leisure structured the survey around two main Building organizational capabilities • Flexi Gym-Pass Our efforts had global reach: themes – engagement and enablement – 1 that contribute to the execution of allowing us to determine the percentage of our strategy. our employees with a deep commitment More than 7,000 employees to our company and the percentage of Establishing a “value mindset” participated in approximately five employees that feel enabled to perform among employees on how to better hours each of online training through 2 Building a Better their job effectively. In 2013, 11,201 contribute to the company and our Learning Management System. Workplace Together employees provided feedback. Distributed create value. every two years across all CEMEX Approximately 25,000 employees We have more than 44,000 employees worldwide operations, we will send out the Continued adherence to high ethical spent an average of 28 hours in 3 across the globe. Such a large work force next survey in 2015. standards and compliance. instructor-led programs. means we have the power to do great things. To ensure each and every one of We share these results with our leaders Enabling Continuing Education our employees receives the benefits that and HR professionals. Providing them with matter most to them, we implemented 763 the information they need, we empower At CEMEX, we understand that education employee engagement initiatives, 110 of managers to take immediate action and is a building block for success and holds which promoted work-life balance. help us identify areas of improvement at a a valuable purpose and place in the global, regional and local level. workforce. We foster our employees’ To keep our efforts on track, our professional growth, helping them fulfill Engagement Survey, collects feedback Employee Development their career ambitions through continuous from our employees on a number of topics training and development opportunities including development, compensation, The framework for our employee that enhance their skills and enable them leadership communication and workdevelopment efforts continues to focus on to work smartly, safely and effectively. Our life balance, among others. In 2013, we three strategic priorities: training topics include Health & Safety, 78 Table of To Our Our Building Social Enviromental Values Into Stakeholder Additional Contents Stakeholders Business Solutions Strategy Excellence Actions Engagement Information All employees at CEMEX CEMEX UK Launches are evaluated and receive Technical Development feedback from their Program For one week each month, technicians leave their position managers regarding their and work in different business performance, goals and In 2014, CEMEX UK launched an areas, including aggregates, 18-month Technical Development concrete, cement and building opportunities for career Program to develop the next products. Through hands on development. generation of technical managers. experience and formal tuition, trainees gain valuable insight and leadership skills. Environmental Conservation & Awareness, customers’ needs. This environment to develop and ultimately present their Stakeholder Engagement, Building brings out the best in people, serves projects. The participants were coached by Commercial Capabilities and Leadership customers at a higher level and translates 45 senior management level leaders via the Development. into better bottom-line performance. Leader-to-Leader program, a unique initiative that provides mentorship and connection In 2014, CEMEX: CEMEX has a institutional portfolio of between current and future CEMEX leaders. leadership development programs to Moving forward, our goal is to develop at ensure the continuous presence of leaders least two more programs in the near future. Invested approximately US $3.4 that, regardless of seniority or position, million in employee training on keep learning to maintain our sustainable Moreover, our Manager Training Program 1 topics related to health and safety, competitive advantage and enhance their has continued to help executives learn human rights, ethics, compliance professional and personal growth. Our how to lead more effectively and develop In 2014, more than 1,000 and environmental awareness. leadership development programs offering talent more fully since its launch five years includes: ACHIEVE, focused on middle ago. The program is present in all CEMEX employees joined the Invested more than US $1.6 million managers, and Leader to Leader, focused geographies and has provided training Commercial Academy 2 in scholarships for 221 employees. on creating senior-level mentors. to nearly 1,800 managers, giving these training program. leaders the skills they need to successfully Through ACHIEVE, top-tier managers grow their teams. In 2015, we will be scaling these efforts Developing Effective Leaders and newly appointed directors develop with new initiatives focused on enabling an idea focusing on customer-centricity In addition, our Commercial Academy, teams to make commercial choices At CEMEX, we believe that leadership is a —an essential element of our company’s an internal university for our workforce, that create greater results and provide key component of our success. With true strategy— while reinforcing their own has evolved into an integrated model additional value for our customers. leadership, teams are more focused, more leadership skills. In 2014, 57 participants that supports the growth of commercial efficient and more effective in meeting from 20 countries were placed into teams excellence throughout our organization. 79 Table of To Our Our Building Social Enviromental Values Into Stakeholder Additional Contents Stakeholders Business Solutions Strategy Excellence Actions Engagement Information Our 2014 Global Workforce By Level By Gender By Type of By Age By Seniority 63% Operational 89% Male Contract 17% Under 30 17% Less than 1 positions 11% Female 99% Full-Time 30% 30-40 year 32% Non-executive 1% Part-Time 29% 40-50 24% 1-5 years CEMEX Philippines positions 24% 50 and over 19% 5-10 years Recognized as Employer 5% Executive 40% Over 10 years of the Year positions offer our employees Fostering Positive, Productive the company, their supervisors provided PMAP, the premier organization Interactions performance evaluations and feedback attractive benefits beyond of human resource professionals directly. In addition, 2,294 employees the stipulated by local and managers in the Philippines, To empower career growth and ensure worldwide were evaluated through our legislations. named CEMEX the 2014 Employer all expectations are met, we believe Talent Review process. of the Year for its strong corporate open communication is crucial. Through For instance, we provide nearly 86 percent responsibility efforts and positive impact on its community. our Career Building initiative, managers Competitive Compensation of our global workforce with health and employees meet four times a year Schemes and insurance benefits beyond those During the 38th PMAP Awards to discuss employee career progress, required by local law, including those in Night, CEMEX was lauded for its performance and results. The meetings We hold our employees in high regard the Philippines, Bangladesh, Thailand, the exemplary performance as an are designed to align individual objectives and aim to provide them with the tools Dominican Republic, Guatemala, Haiti, organization with a dynamic people to the company strategy and improve and resources they need to live healthy, Nicaragua, Peru and Mexico, among others. management initiative known as overall satisfaction. fulfilling lives. At CEMEX, we provide In addition, approximately 50 percent of our CEMEX Cares. CEMEX Cares is an competitive compensation designed to global workforce receives pension scheme umbrella program of comprehensive In 2014, 91 percent of our employees support the present and future well-being benefits above local requirements and more HR services designed to increase with access to our Performance of our employees. than 30 percent of our operations receive employee engagement and achieve Assessment Tool set goals, were additional funds for disability than what is a more vibrant and progressive corporate culture. evaluated and received feedback to We constantly look to required by law. To ensure our employees promote continuous improvement. For are taking full advantage of all that we have employees not registered in the global replicate best practices to offer, CEMEX strives to raise awareness platform due to the nature of their job in with the objective to of relevant benefits whenever possible. | 80 Table of To Our Our Building Social Enviromental Values Into Stakeholder Additional Contents Stakeholders Business Solutions Strategy Excellence Actions Engagement Information 5.4 / Strengthening Business Ethics, Compliance and Transparency At CEMEX, we must comply with all applicable laws and policies, without exception. To instill a strong, responsible culture within our workplace, CEMEX recognizes that “Act with Integrity” is one of the five main values that CEMEX´s Code of Ethics reflect who we are as a company and guides our daily is the set of key guiding principles underlying actions and decisions. our daily actions. Ethical behavior honors All of our employees are informed about CEMEX business ethics principles in various ways, us as individuals and including via our Code of Ethics, internal communications and displays, face-to-face legal dignifies our way of doing training, audits, global legal compliance policies and intranet training modules. business. 81 Table of To Our Our Building Social Enviromental Values Into Stakeholder Additional Contents Stakeholders Business Solutions Strategy Excellence Actions Engagement Information In 2014, more than 18,000 tailored training sessions concerning proper ethical behavior were delivered to employees across operations. CEMEX Reporting they can voice their concerns and report Ongoing Training & Ethics-related Training Line – ETHOSline any suspected violations to our policies, Communication Sessions in 2014 values and Code of Ethics. CEMEX seeks to ensure that our values Critical to our ethics and compliance Anti-bribery 145 remain alive and that our Code of Ethics We are encouraging not program is leadership involvement. Last are upheld. To do so, it’s important all year, Country Managers in more than 30 Antitrust 3,445 employees feel they have a safe outlet only all employees, but all nations promoted expected behaviors for expressing concerns related to stakeholders to make sure and reinforced our institutional reporting Code of Ethics 8,728 ethics, governance and compliance. At we keep our values on mechanisms. Confidential Information 2,833 CEMEX, we rely on the ETHOSline as track. Conflict of Interest 59 our secure reporting channel. Available It’s important that our employees have 24 hours a day, seven days a week, a firm understanding of the values and Drug and Alcohol Policy 450 ETHOSline provides employees with During 2014, over 50 communication expectations outlined in the Code of ETHOSline 207 an online portal and phone line for campaigns were implemented to Ethics and Business Conduct. To keep sending comments, requesting advice encourage employees to speak-up and everyone up to speed, we provide regular H&S 460 and submitting complaints. To protect use ETHOSline . training and communication about our Harassment 864 employees, the service is managed policies and human rights issues. by a third-party that gathers incident There were 394 incidents reported in total Insider Trading 65 information, documents concerns and in 2014. Of these incidents, 358 have In 2014, almost 9,000 CEMEX employees Preservation of Assets 350 relays the information to CEMEX. already been closed, 177 of which were all around the globe received training on found true and actions were taken and 36 general topics contained in our Code Workplace Behavior 525 In 2014, ETHOSline was made available are still in progress. of Ethics, including bribery, conflict of Management Trainnig to the public, providing an outlet where interest, reporting mechanisms and solving authorities. Grand Total 18,131 82 Table of To Our Our Building Social Enviromental Values Into Stakeholder Additional Contents Stakeholders Business Solutions Strategy Excellence Actions Engagement Information As part of our annual compliance program, in ETHOSline is available on our webpage so that 2014 we conducted 130 internal legal audits in 16 stakeholders can submit their suggestions and countries classified by Transparency International inquiries and report alleged ethics, compliance or as medium or high-risk countries for perceived governance violations. All reports are dealt diligent corruption. The annual compliance program and professionally, and depending on the nature implements numerous mechanisms including: of the allegation, the applicable Committee will be responsible for dealing with and solving the issue. Online consulting of policies through ETHOS On-site legal compliance trainings situations within our company and provide Global Compliance Program of this Policy followed our collaboration with Legal audits (dawn raids) guidelines to correctly address and Shift, an independent, non-profit center manage these events. To further ensure our employees are acting that specializes in business and human Third-party certification (antiin a manner consistent with our values, rights, together we developed a framework bribery letter and anti-bribery Finally, we abide by principles of fair CEMEX Compliance Legal Department that assesses CEMEX’s current policies, clause in agreements) trade and competition and we do not has permanently implemented the Global processes and practices, in order to identify tolerate price-fixing, market allocation, Compliance Program with a focus on potential gaps and prioritize our company’s Review of countries and predatory pricing or other illegal market the most sensitive countries related to efforts and next steps. This policy is further individuals blacklisted and practices. In 2014, we also updated our corruption risks in our business systems supported by other Corporate Policies due diligence to third parties Global Antitrust Policy with new concepts and processes. Through this program, such as: CEMEX Health and Safety Policy, from external systems to prevent any situations related to we train our employees with a focus on the CEMEX Code of Ethics and Business anticompetitive practices. antitrust, anti-bribery and insider trading Conduct, CEMEX Suppliers Code of issues and execute internal legal audits Conduct When Doing Business with Us and Our Global Policies in Place Anti-Corruption & Anti-Bribery (dawn raids) also addressing these topics. CEMEX Environmental Policies. We are also a signatory member of the United Nations In 2014, our Audit Committee approved We have zero tolerance for bribery Human Rights Global Compact, a strategic policy initiative our new Global Policy for Granting Powers in any form. Our Anti-Bribery/Antifor businesses that are committed to of Attorney. This established guidelines Corruption Policy, Antitrust Compliance We embrace the UN Guiding Principles on aligning their operations and strategies with for granting representation on behalf of Policy and Insider Trading Policy further Business and Human Rights, also referred 10 universally accepted principles in the CEMEX in operations worldwide, ensuring demonstrate our expectations and global to as the “Ruggie Framework”. In 2014 areas of human rights, labor, environment only trusted individuals are assigned this standards and are continuously updated our Corporate Human Rights Policy was and anti-corruption. responsibility. to reflect the latest developments and signed and approved by our CEO. The corresponding regulations. In 2014, there Statement expresses our commitment to During 2014, more than 11,000 employees In addition, the Audit Committee also were no reported incidents of corruption comply with applicable laws, regulations, received training on different Human Rights approved a new Global Policy for Conflicts or bribery to government officials. declarations and international treaties related topics including: harassment, of Interest, which aims to prevent such safeguarding human rights. The creation workplace behavior for managers, H&S, drug & alcohol policy, among others. 83 Table of To Our Our Building Social Enviromental Values Into Stakeholder Additional Contents Stakeholders Business Solutions Strategy Excellence Actions Engagement Information Around 56 percent of our operations have specific programs for disabled people. Personnel with Around 18,000 employees physical or mental disabilities are matched with jobs representing more they can perform with dignity. than 65 percent of our operative workforce are represented by a union or covered under a collective bargaining agreement. Moreover, employees are encouraged to for women in place in approximately 50 We respect the social and cultural right to Encouraging Employee report any potential human rights violation percent of our operating countries. human dignity and expression of identity. Communication to the Human Resources Department, the We also engage employees to share their Local Ethics Committee or through our The support offered varies from country Freedom to Associate opinions and participate in decisionETHOSline. to county and ranges from special CEMEX recognizes, supports and making that affects the company through development opportunities and flex time respects the right of its employees to a variety of forums. In 2015, we will continue to strengthen to private breastfeeding facilities. In the exercise freedom of association in our our position by reinforcing human rightsDominican Republic, Colombia and operations. Hungary specific practices in our existing programs Panama the program “Mas Para Ti” offers CEMEX hosts a National Conference and mechanisms. mothers with children under two years Collective agreement clauses vary from twice a year where employees are the alternative to work from home in the country to country depending on the invited to hear the status and results Diversity afternoons. negotiation reached. Basic contracts of current projects and ask questions We forbid all forms of discrimination include labor conditions, compensation directly to leaders. including, but not limited to, race, creed, We are also committed to creating and benefits. Other contracts also sex, marital status, political opinion and opportunities for people with disabilities. include notice period, sick pay, maternity Equal Opportunity and Fair age, and enforce a strict Diversity and In France an action plan has been in leave, retirement, travel expenses and Compensation Equality Policy. practice since 2011. Everything from development, among others. Employees CEMEX offers a Job Posting Program to communication, recruitment and are also encouraged to participate in give our employees opportunities to apply We continue to look for ways to promote temporary employment to internship employee councils, company meetings for open positions. Hiring decisions are diversity of gender within our population programs and adaptation of work places and projects initiated by employee groups. made without regard to race, color, age, and recognize the importance of to different disabilities is managed by a religion, mental or physical disability, sex or supporting women in the workforce. To dedicated Disability Coordinator. national origin. In the other hand, 71 percent date, we have initiatives and programs of senior management positions are covered by people from the local community. 84 Table of To Our Our Building Social Enviromental Values Into Stakeholder Additional Contents Stakeholders Business Solutions Strategy Excellence Actions Engagement Information CEMEX offers competitive compensation packages Comparative Wage Rate 2014 based on the responsibility level of each position CEMEX entry level vs. local minimum wage ratio and designed to considering: Mexico 1.41 Germany 1.00 Israel 1.17 Latvia 2.23 Colombia 1.23 Panama 1.00 Data from Market-based pay and The representation of the Egypt 2.07 Poland 1.07 independent, total cash labor markets in which a Spain 1.85 USA 1.21 professional, compensation given CEMEX Business third-party of comparable Philippines 1.13 UK 1.36 Unit competes for talent. surveys. companies. France 1.16 Total 1.29 Child Labor Work-Life Balance Risk Management An enterprise risk agenda is developed We are strongly committed to protecting CEMEX abides by the labor laws of each semi-annually considering a combination the rules regarding child labor in country in which it operates regarding At CEMEX, each of our business units has of a bottom-up and a top-down approach. every country we operate. We do not employees’ weekly work hours. Working an Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) Internal and external risks are identified tolerate the use of child labor by anyone hours exceeding legally stated norms are process in place. ERM is a structured and classified according to a specific associated with our business, and require seen as overtime and paid according to approach to manage all important taxonomy that considers all types of risks official government-issued identification as local law. In all the countries where we risks that could impact the company’s that could impact the company, including part of our hiring and selection process. operate, we have time attendance systems objectives. ERM aims to support top but not limited to: and a policy regarding overtime. We also management across the organization in Forced Labor & Safe Work comply with local laws governing the the decision making process, reducing • Strategic risks Environment maximum amount of overtime allowed and the impact of adverse events and • Economic, political and social risks In CEMEX no one is forced to perform any have processes in place in each country capitalizing on opportunities. The main • Operational risks • Compliance risks task that is hazardous or detrimental to their to monitor and control overtime hours. ERM duties are: • Financial and reporting risks health or wellbeing. Our operations in every In 2014, all of the countries in which we country comply with the local laws and we operate had at least one initiative of the • Identify and clarify threats take measures to prevent workers from categories listed below: • Provide strategic intelligence All business units are individually falling into debt bondage through company • Ensure top management discussions responsible for identifying all potential risks loans. All our employees are free to leave • Coordinate mitigation strategies and creating their own risk agenda. The 47% dependent care • Fostering a risk aware culture the company anytime and we do not offer ERM process employs different tools and any benefit used as a leverage to force 56% child care methodologies to gather information from a labor. Moreover, it’s important to emphasize 31% elderly care The ERM function at CEMEX is structured range of sources, analyzes data, identifies, that according to the CEMEX Code of into global, regional and local levels, and assesses and develop strategies to mitigate 28% sabbaticals Ethics, all employees may anonymously is composed of a network of more than potential risks. report ethics violations via ETHOS Line. 90% parental leave 50 risk management professionals across 75% other flexible benefits the company. 85 Table of To Our Our Building Social Enviromental Values Into Stakeholder Additional Contents Stakeholders Business Solutions Strategy Excellence Actions Engagement Information In 80 percent of the countries in which we operate, CEMEX has work-life balance initiatives in place that encourage a positive relationship between an employee’s work and personal life. In total, 110 work-life balance initiatives were offered benefiting more than 21,000 employees. As part of the risk management process, Governance ongoing commitment to best practices including sustainability-related concerns risk owners who have the authority to in governance, transparency and all and financial strategy. In addition, during mitigate the risk and ERM representatives, We pride ourselves on creating an open other aspects of our relationship with our 2014 the number of meetings held by the continuously monitor key risk indicators and transparent operation. That’s why we stakeholders. specific committees at the Board was: that could impact the development of main strive to keep our investors fully informed risks. In case a change in the risk level is of all of our activities and to ensure our Our company’s board of directors is identified, the Risk Management Committee financial disclosures meet the highest composed of qualified directors who Corporate Practices Committee 5 is informed to take the necessary actions. ethical standards. provide appropriate oversight and meet the independence criteria under applicable Finance Committee 2 5 To learn more about Our corporate governance practices laws. In addition, one member of our are governed by our bylaws and all audit committee meets the requirements 3 Audit Committee 3 our Risk Management applicable provisions in both Mexican of a “financial expert” as defined by the practices, visit our website. and U.S. securities laws. On a voluntarily Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (SOX). 4Sustainability Committee 1 basis, we also comply with the Mexican (created on September 2014) Code of Best Practices, which provides In 2014, the CEMEX Board of Directors, led recommendations for better corporate by our new Chairman Rogelio Zambrano, While our board of directors is ultimately practices for listed companies in Mexico. was comprised of 10 directors, seven of responsible for supervising the overall whom qualify as independent directors operation of our company, all of our After the loss of our former CEO in May according to criteria specified under employees play a critical role in enforcing 2014, the company decided to separate Mexican Securities Law. Over the course good governance and financial reporting the Chairman of the Board and CEO of the year, the board met eight times to practices. | positions. That change is part of our report on a wide range of relevant issues, NOTE: As of March 2015, CEMEX’s Board of Directors consists of 13 directors, 9 of whom are independent. 86 Table of To Our Our Building Social Enviromental Values Into Stakeholder Additional Contents Stakeholders Business Solutions Strategy Excellence Actions Engagement Information 6/ Enhancing our Engagement with Stakeholders to Create Shared Value CEMEX Stakeholder Management Model was rolled out in our Central, More than 100 analysts, investors and South American and Caribbean bankers attended the annual Business Units in 2014 CEMEX Day investor event 87 Table of To Our Our Building Social Enviromental Values Into Stakeholder Additional Contents Stakeholders Business Solutions Strategy Excellence Actions Engagement Information At CEMEX, we understand that our sustainability is tied to the wellbeing of those directly and indirectly connected to our company. That’s why we strive to have respectful and honest relationships that allow us to maintain a good reputation with all of our stakeholders and contribute to the development of our employees, our communities and our company. Our core business activities are centered on our mission to be a positive, proactive neighbor, which creates shared value for all. To provide uniformity and ensure our management and business strategies align with our stakeholders’ needs, our corporate Public Affairs team developed a Stakeholder Management Model and set of management practices. The model was rolled out in our Central, South American and Caribbean Business Units in 2014 and will reach the rest of our regions in 2015. 88 Table of To Our Our Building Social Enviromental Values Into Stakeholder Additional Contents Stakeholders Business Solutions Strategy Excellence Actions Engagement Information Stakeholder Engagement Mechanisms Local, national and Academic institutions, Top Managers and Analysts, investors, Clients and suppliers NGOs and Communities regional governments associations and trade Employees shareholders and Regulatory Bodies organizations Annual sustainable Regular meetings, Annual sustainable Monthly newsletters Annual commercial events development report and webcasts and conference development report and Periodic meetings conservation books calls conservation books Monthly meetings with Monthly and/or quarterly Quarterly internal Annual customerOngoing public policy community leaders and financial updates and Annual conferences magazines satisfaction surveys discussions organizations guidance Periodic site visits/ Annual financial and Ongoing customer service Quarterly advisory panels dialogue sessions with sustainable development Long-term partnerships Ongoing working groups centers and help lines and dialogue sessions management reports Ongoing capacity building Periodic town halls and Ongoing website updates Periodic meetings and programs (ie. Supplier Annual open house days Ongoing research studies webcasts and press releases working groups portal) Ongoing leadership engagement and Ongoing site visits, local communications, Shift Annual CEMEX Day partnerships, social Periodic plant visits (intranet), email, on-site investor event programs, volunteer work message boards, and training programs Annual Performance appraisal mechanisms Annual engagement survey G4-24, G4-26 · 89 Table of To Our Our Building Social Enviromental Values Into Stakeholder Additional Contents Stakeholders Business Solutions Strategy Excellence Actions Engagement Information Organizations we partnered with in 2014 include: sions standards through economically Development Act (WRRDA) of 2014. For viable projects. CEMEX is also providing the first time, the act defined resilient Earth Ashoka members of the European Parliament construction and emphasized the Engineering Center with a vital industry perspective on importance of using durable materials, International (EEC) USAID climate change and other environmencreating a standard for all agencies with Union for Conservation tal issues through participation with resilient construction expectations. of Nature (IUCN) GLOBE EU and the European Parliament Intergroup on Climate Change, BiodiMEXICO. CEMEX actively participated in Urban Infrastructure UN-Habitat versity and Sustainable Development. more than 60 chamber and association Initiative (UII)WBCSD In addition, CEMEX and BirdLife Europe events, providing innovative ideas and issued a joint statement on the EU’s solutions for sustainable urban develCement Bird Life nature conservation policy and CEMEX opment, education and infrastructure Sustainability International Initiative (CSI)Partnerships joined forces with the EU’s LIFE program projects. In 2014, CEMEX also worked WBCSD to develop “Ecorest Clay,” an innovative with the National Autonomous Univerquarry restoration project. sity of Mexico (UNAM) to develop an Clinton United Global environmental impact study highlighting Nations Initiative Foundation USA. We’re sharing information gathered the benefits of concrete pavement vs. United from studies by the Cement Sustainabiliasphalt pavement. Nations National Global Geographic ty Initiative and MIT Concrete SustainabilCompact MIT Concrete Sustainability ity HUB with government offices, guiding Promoting Transparency (UNGC) Hub (MIT CShub) decisions about infrastructure improvewith Investors ment. In 2014, we also worked with the Earth Engineering Center, a research orWe hold ourselves to high standards of ganization from Columbia University and integrity and transparency. At CEMEX, Strengthening Partnerships environmental regulations that address The City College of New York, to execute we engage our investors, debt holders key stakeholders’ considerations. We are a study of the environmental implications and research analysts through a variety Through strategic relationships with also influencers, providing independent of alternative fuels in cement manufacof communication channels. Our 2014 global and local organizations, including research and guidance that inform the turing. Its findings will educate policy financial results, corporate strategy and NGOs, trade associations, educational creation of public-private partnerships, makers on the benefits of alternative fuel business outlook, as well as an update institutions, and intergovernmental facilitating the development of efficient and support legislation and regulations on our various regional operations, were organizations, we enhance our ability to and cost-effective infrastructure projects. that foster the adoption of cleaner fuel shared during a CEMEX Day investor empower our communities. across the industry. event held in New York on March 17, EUROPEAN UNION. We play an active 2015. Approximately 100 analysts, Public Policy role shaping the European Union EmisLeading the way on Capitol Hill, during investors and bankers attended the event sions Trading Scheme (EU ETS) and the the 113th Congress CEMEX’s DC team and more than 560 people followed via At each of our operations across the Clean Development Mechanism, platpaved the way to secure the inclusion webcast. To learn more about CEMEX globe, we promote fair and well-designed forms that help companies meet emisof the Water Resources Reform and Day, please visit www.cemex.com. 90 Table of To Our Our Building Social Enviromental Values Into Stakeholder Additional Contents Stakeholders Business Solutions Strategy Excellence Actions Engagement Information Our Performance in Detail Lead in sustainable construction 2012 2013 2014 Production covered with CEMEX CO2 Footprint Tool (%) 100 100 100 Cement 100 100 100 Aggregates 100 100 100 Ready-mix 100 100 100 Sites covered with CEMEX CO2 Footprint Tool (%) 100 100 100 Cement 100 100 100 Aggregates 100 100 100 Ready-mix 100 100 100 CO2 Footprint Annual Average Cement (kg CO2e/ton) 770 770 769 Aggregates (kg CO2e/ton) 5.0 5.0 4.7 Ready-mix (kg CO2e/m3) 277 277 265 Resilient and efficient building solutions 2012 2013 2014 Affordable and resource-efficient buildings where CEMEX is involved (#) 2,942 7,513 3,150 Affordable and resource-efficient buildings where CEMEX is involved (million m2) 0.40 0.18 Concrete paving completed (million m2) 8.34 7.42 8.14 Green building projects under certification where CEMEX is involved (million m2) 3.46 7.08 Annual ready-mix sales derived from products with outstanding sustainable attributes (%) 26.8 29.7 Carbon strategy 2012 2013 2014 Absolute gross CO2 emissions (million ton) 42.6 40.3 42.8 Absolute net CO2 emissions (million ton) 39.4 37.6 40.1 Specific gross CO2 emissions (kg CO2/ton of cementitious product) 661 648 653 Specific net CO2 emissions (kg CO2/ton of cementitious product) 612 607 613 Reduction in CO2 emissions per ton of cementitious product from 1990 baseline (%) 22.7 23.4 22.6 Thermal energy efficiency of clinker production (MJ/ton clinker) 3,876 3,812 3,854 Fuel mix (%) 2012 2013 2014 Total alternative fuels rate 27.1 28.4 27.7 Coal 22.3 21.8 22.5 Petroleum coke 37.2 37.6 38.2 Fuel oil 8.9 9.1 8.5 Natural gas 4.5 3.1 3.0 Alternative fuels rate (%) 2012 2013 2014 Alternative fossil fuels rate 20.7 16.1 16.3 Biomass fuels rate 6.4 12.3 11.4 91 Table of To Our Our Building Social Enviromental Values Into Stakeholder Additional Contents Stakeholders Business Solutions Strategy Excellence Actions Engagement Information Waste types used as alternative fuels (%) 2012 2013 2014 Industrial and household waste 66.2 46.7 49.7 Tires 14.2 10.1 9.0 Animal meal 3.1 3.0 2.5 Agricultural organic waste 9.7 8.5 7.2 Other biomass 6.7 31.7 31.6 Other carbon strategy indicators 2012 2013 2014 Alternative raw material rate 12.5 11.6 11.2 Clinker/Cement factor (%) 76.5 76.9 76.5 Indirect energy consumption (GWh) 7,460 7,266 7,562 Specific energy consumption, cement (kWh/ton) 117 118 116 Specific energy consumption, ready-mix concrete (kWh/m3) 3.1 3.4 3.2 Specific energy consumption, aggregates (kWh/ton) 5.1 4.8 4.4 Direct energy consumption (TJ) 195,505 185,261 196,510 Air quality 2012 2013 2014 Clinker produced with continous monitoring of major emissions (Dust, NOx and SOx) (%) 80 81 84 Clinker produced with monitoring of major and minor emissions (Dust, NOx, SOx, Hg, Cd, TI, VOC, PCDD/F) (%) 81 81 81 Absolute Dust emissions (ton/year) 3,759 5,866 6,147 Specific Dust emissions (g/ton clinker) 78 127 134 Absolute NOx emissions (ton/year) 49,396 59,391 59,620 Specific NOx emissions (g/ton clinker) 1,025 1,261 1,205 Absolute SOx emissions (ton/year) 12,385 10,127 12,711 Specific SOx emissions (g/ton clinker) 257 215 257 Annual reduction in Dust emissions per ton of clinker from 2005 baseline (%) 74 58 55 Annual reduction in NOx emissions per ton of clinker from 2005 baseline (%) 51 39 42 Annual reduction in SOx emissions per ton of clinker from 2005 baseline (%) 60 67 60 Water management 1 2012 2013 2014 Total water withdrawals by source (million m3) 76.5 87.9 84.6 Surface water 26.5 28.6 37.3 Ground water 39.8 45.6 35.6 Municipal water 8.6 10.7 8.8 Rain water 1.0 0.8 0.9 Sea water 0.0 0.5 0.2 Other 0.7 1.8 1.8 Cement (million m3) 27.0 26.9 25.9 Surface water 10.8 11.6 10.9 Ground water 14.6 13.1 13.0 Municipal water 0.8 1.2 1.1 Rain water 0.2 0.3 0.3 Sea water 0.0 0.3 0.0 Other 0.6 0.3 0.6 92 Table of To Our Our Building Social Enviromental Values Into Stakeholder Additional Contents Stakeholders Business Solutions Strategy Excellence Actions Engagement Information Water management 1 2012 2013 2014 Ready-mix (million m3) 10.4 11.1 11.0 Surface water 0.6 0.2 0.3 Ground water 2.8 2.2 3.6 Municipal water 6.9 7.2 5.6 Rain water 0.0 0.1 0.1 Sea water 0.0 0.0 0.0 Other 0.1 1.5 1.3 Aggregates (million m3) 39.1 49.9 47.8 Surface water 15.1 16.8 26.1 Ground water 22.4 30.2 18.9 Municipal water 0.9 2.3 2.1 Rain water 0.7 0.5 0.5 Sea water 0.0 0.2 0.2 Other 0.0 0.0 0.0 Total water discharge by destination (million m3) 24.9 32.7 32.9 Surface water 18.3 21.1 19.2 Ground water 5.5 9.7 11.8 Municipal water 0.7 1.0 0.8 Sea water 0.1 0.2 0.1 Other 0.3 0.8 1.0 Cement (million m3) 3.7 4.2 3.3 Surface water 3.2 3.3 2.4 Ground water 0.0 0.1 0.0 Municipal water 0.2 0.2 0.3 Sea water 0.1 0.2 0.1 Other 0.2 0.4 0.5 Ready-mix (million m3) 0.6 0.7 0.7 Surface water 0.0 0.0 0.0 Ground water 0.0 0.2 0.2 Municipal water 0.5 0.6 0.4 Sea water 0.0 0.0 0.0 Other 0.1 0.0 0.1 Aggregates (million m3) 20.6 27.8 28.9 Surface water 15.1 17.8 16.8 Ground water 5.5 9.4 11.6 Municipal water 0.0 0.2 0.1 Sea water 0.0 0.0 0.0 Other 0.0 0.4 0.4 Total consumption (million m3) 52 55 52 93 Table of To Our Our Building Social Enviromental Values Into Stakeholder Additional Contents Stakeholders Business Solutions Strategy Excellence Actions Engagement Information Water management 1 2012 2013 2014 Cement 23 23 23 Ready-mix 10 10 10 Aggregates 19 22 19 Specific Water Consumption Cement (l/ton) 382 376 360 Ready-mix (l/m3) 182 197 185 Aggregates (l/ton) 139 168 132 Sites with water recycling systems (%) 90 86 84 Cement 78 78 80 Ready-mix 89 86 83 Aggregates 2 96 91 89 Waste management 3 2012 2013 2014 Hazardous waste disposal (ton) 147,185 80,065 104,909 Cement 134,778 77,125 102,036 Ready-mix 1,744 2,477 2,348 Aggregates 10,429 325 403 Others 234 138 122 Non-hazardous waste disposal (ton) 689,976 637,145 483,404 Cement 134,830 238,394 130,507 Ready-mix 537,968 386,816 335,402 Aggregates 3,776 3,152 11,325 Others 13,401 8,782 6,171 Volume of returned ready-mix concrete material from total delivered % 0.95 1.00 1.27 m3 516,846 525,733 712,152 Secondary and recycled aggregates used as a direct replacement of primary aggregates % 0.33 0.21 0.21 Ton 245,541 194,353 221,676 Biodiversity management 2012 2013 2014 Active sites with quarry rehabilitation plans (%) 91 92 94 Cement 89 91 86 Aggregates 92 93 96 Active quarries within or adjacent to high biodiversity value areas (#) 94 91 80 Cement 11 11 10 Aggregates 83 80 70 Active sites with high biodiversity value where Biodiversity Action Plans are actively implemented (%) 41 51 55 Cement 45 64 60 Aggregates 41 49 54 94 Table of To Our Our Building Social Enviromental Values Into Stakeholder Additional Contents Stakeholders Business Solutions Strategy Excellence Actions Engagement Information Environmental management 2012 2013 2014 Sites with CEMEX Environmental Management System implemented (%) 4 68 74 Cement 96 97 Ready-mix 65 70 Aggregates 73 90 Sites with ISO 14001 certification (#) 586 605 690 Sites with ISO 14001 certification (%) 30 32 37 Environmental investment (US million) 139 95 85 Major environmental incidents Category 1 (#) 1 0 0 Moderate environmental incidents Category 2 (#) 52 87 39 Minor environmental incidents Category 3 (#) 323 357 313 Environmental non-compliance cases (#) 5 131 97 276 Associated fines (US million) 2.3 0.7 0.5 Health and Safety 2012 2013 2014 Total fatalities 18 21 27 Employees, total 1 3 4 Cement 0 1 2 Ready-mix 1 2 1 Aggregates 0 0 0 Other businesses 0 0 1 Contractors, total 11 11 17 Cement 10 5 12 Ready-mix 1 1 3 Aggregates 0 1 0 Other businesses 0 4 2 Third-parties, total 6 7 6 Cement 5 3 2 Ready-mix 1 4 3 Aggregates 0 0 1 Other businesses 0 0 0 Fatality rate, employees (per 10,000 employed) 0.2 0.7 0.7 Cement 0 0.8 1.5 Ready-mix 0.6 1.4 0.4 Aggregates 0 0 0 Other businesses 0 0 0.8 Lost Time Injuries (LTIs) 2012 2013 6 2014 Employees, total 214 176 124 Cement 48 33 32 Ready-mix 130 111 70 Aggregates 16 13 9 Other businesses 20 19 13 95 Table of To Our Our Building Social Enviromental Values Into Stakeholder Additional Contents Stakeholders Business Solutions Strategy Excellence Actions Engagement Information Lost Time Injuries (LTIs) 2012 2013 6 2014 Contractors, total 103 90 69 Cement 56 39 27 Ready-mix 24 30 19 Aggregates 4 4 6 Other businesses 19 17 17 Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTI FR), employees (per million hours worked) 2.0 1.8 1.2 Cement 1.6 1.2 1.0 Ready-mix 3.4 3.1 1.9 Aggregates 1.6 1.3 0.9 Other businesses 0.7 0.7 0.5 Compliance with CSI Driving Safety Recommended Practices (%) 85 84 87 Compliance with CSI Contractor Safety Recommended Practices (%) 90 88 88 Sites with a Health and Safety Management System implemented (%) 100 100 99 Cement 99 99 100 Ready-mix 100 100 99 Aggregates 99 99 100 Sites certified with OHSAS 18001:2007 (%) 9 8 9 Cement 35 38 40 Ready-mix 7 7 6 Aggregates 12 11 15 Sickness Absence Rate (%) 2.5 2.2 2.2 Sites with health professional onsite or external health provider (%) 96 93 93 Corporate governance 2012 2013 2014 Executives and employees actively aware of our Code of Ethics (%) 80 80 Ethics and compliance cases reported during the year that were investigated and closed (%) 96 91 Reports of alleged breaches to the Code of Ethics received by local ethics committees (#) 325 324 394 Reports related to employee relations 53 60 79 Reports related to a form of harassment 53 42 63 Reports related to discrimination 7 5 7 Disciplinary actions taken as a result of reports of non-compliance with the Code of Ethics, other policies or the law (#) 140 178 177 Countries that participated on the antitrust and anti-bribery Global Compliance Program (%) 93 90 Countries with local mechanisms to promote employee awareness of procedures to identify and report incidences of 100 100 100 internal fraud, kick-backs, among others (%) Investigated incidents reported and found to be true related to fraud, kick-backs among others corruption incidents to 0 0 0 government officials (#) Partnership with key stakeholders 2012 2013 2014 Workforce 43,905 43,087 44,241 Mexico 9,697 9,597 9,854 United States 9,791 9,432 9,752 96 Table of To Our Our Building Social Enviromental Values Into Stakeholder Additional Contents Stakeholders Business Solutions Strategy Excellence Actions Engagement Information Partnership with key stakeholders 2012 2013 2014 Northern Europe 11,162 10,025 10,000 Mediterranean 3,946 3,826 3,815 Asia 1,199 1,178 1,138 South/Central America and Caribbean 4,977 5,793 6,272 Others (including Corporate and Neoris) 3,133 3,236 3,410 Breakdown of workforce by type of contract (%) Full time 99 99 99 Part time 1 1 1 Breakdown of workforce by level (%) Executive positions 5 5 5 Non-executive positions 35 35 32 Operational positions 60 60 63 Breakdown of workforce by age (%) Under 30 16 16 17 31-40 31 31 30 41-50 29 29 29 51 and over 24 24 24 Breakdown of workforce by gender (%) Male 89 89 89 Female 11 11 11 Female employees by level (%) Executive positions 13 14 12 Non-executive positions 25 24 26 Operational positions 2 3 3 Male to female wage ratio 1.04 1.03 1.05 Employees that perceive they are enabled to perform their job effectively (PEI Performance Enablement Index) (%) 8 NA 79 79 7 Employees that are engaged to the company (EEI Employee Engagement Index) (%) 8 NA 77 77 7 Engagement level 88 NA NA Participation rate in engagement survey (%) 75 78 78 7 Empoyee turnover rate (%) 9 6.6 5.0 6.9 Employees represented by an independent union or covered by a collective bargaining agreement (%) 10 46 46 45 Notice to employees regarding operational changes (average days) 40 40 34 Countries with practices to promote local hiring (%) 76 88 90 Training provided by operations (average hours) Executive positions 42 26 27 Non-executive and operational positions 20 27 29 Online courses through CEMEX Learning (#) 1,260 832 545 Employees with access to CEMEX Learning Management System (#) 18,317 18,041 10,104 97 Table of To Our Our Building Social Enviromental Values Into Stakeholder Additional Contents Stakeholders Business Solutions Strategy Excellence Actions Engagement Information Partnership with key stakeholders 2012 2013 2014 Employees of executive positions trained in Sustainability Leadership Program (# accumulated) 319 695 701 Sites conducting social impact assessments (%) 68 68 68 Cement 75 75 75 Ready-mix 67 67 67 Aggregates 70 70 70 Sites with community engagement plans (%) 97 97 98 Cement 96 96 97 Aggregates 97 97 98 Sites with employee volunteering programs (%) 54 67 67 Countries that conduct regular customer satisfaction surveys (%) 11 89 79 78 Purchases sourced from locally-based suppliers (%) 95 95 95 Countries with a process to screen suppliers in relation to social and environmental aspects (%) 67 72 86 Percentage of global procurement spend assessed by our Supplier Sustainability Program (%) 10 12 Strengthen local communities 12 2012 2013 2014 Families participating in Patrimonio Hoy (#) 396,845 426,569 470,749 Individuals benefited from Patrimonio Hoy (#) 1,921,731 2,063,767 2,274,630 Square meters built by Patrimonio Hoy 3,040,490 3,315,863 3,693,073 Families participating in Construapoyo and PCS (#) 56,693 67,211 73,154 Families participating within our social initiatives (#) 13 453,538 493,780 543,903 Individuals benefited from our social and inclusive businesses (#) 13 2,188,289 2,363,867 2,601,157 Individuals benefited from our social initiatives (#) 14 5,690,438 6,331,396 6,937,176 Footnotes : [1] We continue working to strengthen the implementation of our Water Reporting Protocol. We pre-verified our water withdrawals with the purpose of verifying them in the near future. As a result of this, we have increased the precision in the measurement of our water KPIs, and updated our historical data to better reflect our trends and allow a better comparison with our water consumption in previous years. [2] Considering sites that use water for aggregates production (including wet screening and aggregate washing). [3] Waste Management historical figures have been recalculated due to changes of local environmental regulations in some countries. [4] After an internal revision of 2013 data, we have adjusted it to better reflect the operations with an implemented EMS. [5] The number of environmental non-compliance cases for 2014 has increased due to changes in local regulations. [6] A local CEMEX H&S audit in a country identified a small number of LTI incidents that had been reported retrospectively, mainly after the degree of injury had worsened over time. These few changes when re-entered into our global statistics changed the Rate from 1.7 to 1.8 because of the marginal decimal place rounding that occurred. [7] 2014 figures come from the 2013 results since Engagement Survey is applied every two years. [8] In 2013 the Employee Engagement Index (EEI) was reconfigured measuring 4 items: pride, commitment, advocacy and satisfaction; and a new index was included: the Performance Enablement Index (PEI) which measures: collaboration, customer service, product quality, empowerment and resources. [9] Voluntary turnover. [10] Total employees including executive and non-executive positions. Considering only operations positions coverage is 65 percent. [11] Decrease due to the number of active sites considered. [12] Accumulated figures. [13] Accumulated figure from Patrimonio Hoy since 1998, Construapoyo since 2005, and PCS since 2006. [14] Accumulated figure since 1998. G4-22 · 98 Table of To Our Our Building Social Enviromental Values Into Stakeholder Additional Contents Stakeholders Business Solutions Strategy Excellence Actions Engagement Information Sustainability Credentials CDP Outstanding Mexican Stock UNGC 100 Index Carbon Disclosure Exchange in Latin America Sustainability Index For the third consecutive year in 2014 the Since its inception in 2011, CEMEX CEMEX was the only Mexican company Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) named has been one of only around 30 selected in the United Nations Global CEMEX as one of the best Latin American companies chosen for the exclusive Compact 100, a stock index composed companies in terms of Climate Change Mexican Stock Exchange Sustainability of a representative group of Global Data Disclosure. Based on provided Index. The evaluation scope included Compact companies, selected based on information quality and transparency our management and use of natural implementation of the ten principles and CEMEX was positioned amongst the top 8 resources, corporate governance evidence of leadership commitment. This companies out of 80 invitees that integrate standards and social responsibility with index combines corporate performance the Carbon Disclosure Leadership Index key stakeholders including employees, on environmental, social and governance (CDLI) in Latin America. customers, suppliers and communities. (ESG) issues with a requirement of consistent base-line profitability. 99 Table of To Our Our Building Social Enviromental Values Into Stakeholder Additional Contents Stakeholders Business Solutions Strategy Excellence Actions Engagement Information Advisory Panel Members and Statement Advisory Panel Members Irma Gómez Felipe Pich Ramón Pérez Gil Antonio Vives Undersecretary for Founding Director of Council member of the Consulting Professor, Management, Ministry of Pich-Aguilera Architects International Union for Civil and Environmental Environment and Natural and President of GBCe, Conservation of Nature Engineering Department, Resources of Mexico. Spanish Chapter of the (IUCN). Stanford University. World Green Building Principal Associate, Council. Cumpetere. We are pleased to note the continued last few years, we remain confident that Sustainability Governance stakeholders. The new model has also progress and commitment of CEMEX CEMEX will progressively incorporate our The Panel notes with great satisfaction the enhanced the readability and structuring to sustainability and how integral relevant suggestions in their activities and creation of the Sustainability Committee of the report. sustainability has become to its in future editions of the report. Again, as of the Board, at the same level of other business strategy. The 2014 Sustainable in previous years, we concentrate here on traditional governance committees. This As the components of the model Development Report, Building Resilient strategic aspects that will further enhance is still a rather exceptional practice in dominate thinking and reporting, we and Sustainable Urban Communities, the company’s activities and reporting in multinationals and CEMEX should be encourage CEMEX to find ways to includes a significant number of activities the future. commended for its leadership that we describe in a more integrated and undertaken during the year and reflects a hope will lead others to adopt its example. summarized fashion its large contribution renewed sustainability model that bodes Furthermore, this should stimulate to society’s wellbeing beyond the Review Process of Reporting well for CEMEX´s responsibility towards more interest from board members in description of its individual activities During this year´s review process the society and the environment. sustainability activities and lend support scattered throughout the report. We Panel did not have the same opportunities for upper, middle and lower management would like to suggest CEMEX consider as in the past to discuss its comments Scope of Our Review in the funding and implementation of summarizing their contribution to the six and offer its advice for the preparation of As in previous years the Sustainability the strategy. Also, the establishment of capitals, along the lines of the proposed the report and was limited to commenting Reporting Advisory Panel reviewed an Environmental Education Centers is a framework of the International Integrated on the proposed table of contents and on advanced draft of the CEMEX 2014 promising endeavor. Reporting Council, even if not preparing the final draft. As such, our comments are Sustainable Development Report. an integrated report. expected to contribute to future reports, Individually we shared with management Reporting framework more than to the current one, as many our detailed comments and specific The Panel is pleased to note the updated Recently CEMEX indicated its of the issues raised in this Statement suggestions for improvement in reporting Sustainability Model which started to commitment to prepare the sustainability are matters of continuous improvement. and by extension on their activities. Given be implemented during 2014 that will report following the G4 Guidelines of CEMEX has reassured the Panel that the the nature of the current process, most of allow CEMEX to focus its activities and the Global Reporting Initiative, which process will be enhanced in order to allow our comments are expected to influence reporting on the major sustainability would lead the company to concentrate a more active and timely participation. We the future development of policies, issues facing the company and tightening its reporting along the major material are confident that such will be the case. processes, activities and information the content of communications to aspects. While welcomed, the Panel does systems. In light of the experience of the increase the relevance to the major not feel that CEMEX must be compelled 100 Table of To Our Our Building Social Enviromental Values Into Stakeholder Additional Contents Stakeholders Business Solutions Strategy Excellence Actions Engagement Information to report “in accordance” of the G4 aspects for each group and decide on Building Solutions actions to respect all human rights. We guidelines. As such, some members of the critical ones on the basis of CEMEX The Panel notes with satisfaction the look forward to seeing these advances the Panel suggest that CEMEX prepare priorities. We suggest that the selection of enhanced approach to Building Solutions reflected in the 2015 report. one report according to the G4, if it respondents not be left to the vagaries in and would hope that in future reports feels it is required to comply with the responding to surveys but be proactively more details can be included, in particular Safety expectations of some stakeholders, but pursued according to the need to obtain to give a better understanding of the We are encouraged that the time lost prepare another one to better reveal its a sample that reflects their impact, even strategy to move CEMEX beyond a due to injuries has decreased, but, as in character and culture, trying to inspire if the resulting sample is smaller. This is cement company. The initiative concrete previous years, we are concerned about others and become a reference in its especially important if CEMEX decides on by design is welcome as it shows that the increase in the number of fatalities, field. Other members suggest that reporting under the new GRI G4 guidelines CEMEX is widely aware of the large including of CEMEX’s own employees. CEMEX prepare a single sustainability that places materiality as the key guide. advantages of concrete in green building, The number of fatalities, especially among report following internationally recognized and is taking advantage of experts and contractors, is unacceptable as the guidelines and use other more targeted Benchmarks the evolving research centers to develop Chairman and CEO’s letter emphasizes. communication tools for reputation We note with satisfaction that CEMEX has new products and knowledge in this field. We note that CEMEX has taken a management and to serve the needs of started updating the benchmarks and significant number of preventive actions, specific stakeholders. look forward to results for the complete As new ways of building are emerging, but we encourage CEMEX to further set. We encourage CEMEX to also update as an answer to environmental demands assess why some of these measures have Material aspects all baselines for comparisons as some that tend to prioritize lightweight and not produced the expected results. The Panel notes with satisfaction the are rather old and no longer represent organic materials, cement could become progress being made during 2014 on an appropriate starting point to measure an important component in this evolution Emissions determining the material aspects with progress. Also, we suggest the definition towards green building, due to its We encourage CEMEX to comment, in the help of an outside consultant and the be made as consistent as possible bioclimatic behavior to manage thermal future reports, on the evolution of actual inclusion of more than 11,000 stakeholders. among benchmarks, preferably reported stress in the build environment, and not emissions in recent years and suggest Nevertheless while the results, in general, as an annual increase or decrease over only on the basis of its embodied energy. that reporting include direct emissions confirm expectations there are some that the previous year or average of previous and Scope 2 emissions, not just avoided give us concern that the sample, while years, some of them as a proportion of an Human Rights emissions. While comparison to the large, may have not been appropriately indicator of production, as needed. This We are very pleased to observe that, in baseline of 1990 does provide some selected and weighted. For instance we would allow for a more clear appreciation response to last year’s Panel Letter, it has information, this is a very old base and note the very low importance given both of progress. produced a “framework that assesses it would be more helpful if evolution was by CEMEX and its stakeholders to some CEMEX´s current policies, processes and reported in comparison to the most issues like water use and recycling and On the development of benchmarks, practices in order to identify potential recent three years. We note with concern environmental incidents and the very high we would like to suggest adding some gaps and prioritize our company´s efforts that there has been little or no progress importance given by other stakeholders, related local economic development, and next steps” in the area of Human in reduction in direct CO2 emissions, besides CEMEX itself, to Economic Value for instance empowerment, capacity Rights and has started consolidating the while per unit emissions for dust and NOx Creation. We would suggest the sample building and fostering local/communal reporting on their actions. We encourage emissions have increased. We would be based on an assessment of the sets business opportunities, including SME CEMEX to carry out the assessment of hope that in future reports CEMEX will of stakeholders that are critical for the development, even though these are not the situation in all sites where it operates provide information on the actions taken company (in terms of power, legitimacy traditional reporting indicators. in order to identity the gaps and develop to reverse these trends. and urgency) and then assess the material the appropriate policies, processes and 101 Table of To Our Our Building Social Enviromental Values Into Stakeholder Additional Contents Stakeholders Business Solutions Strategy Excellence Actions Engagement Information The Panel notes the increase in the Biodiversity program was only instituted two years Ethics and Corruption amount of hazardous waste, even if it While there has been progress in ago, the progress seems slow. We are pleased to notice the progress is due to tightened local regulations. In the number of active sites with high being made in raising awareness on future reports it would be desirable for biodiversity value where Biodiversity Procurement and the value chain offer these issues and the fact that so many CEMEX to indicate what actions are taken Action Plans are implemented, the new and effective ways to expand, extend, ethics and internal human rights cases about reduction in all countries and if percentages are still low. This is an enhance, boost and multiply policies’ are brought to the fore. An analysis of CEMEX will comply with local regulations important challenge. We note with application, principles, values, views and the major causes and trends in this or aim for the higher local definition. It satisfaction the progress made in the naturally impact far beyond the immediate regard would be helpful to the readers would also be desirable to describe how expansion of the adoption of the EMS sphere of CEMEX’s action, that should be of the report. We are also encouraged those wastes are disposed of. and encourage CEMEX to continue taken advantage of to contribute to local by the fact that there have not been efforts to increase coverage of the economic development. any cases of corruption or bribery to Energy and water consumption EMS on ready-mix operations and government officials reported during We were pleased to learn of the aggregates quarries. Working conditions and social impact 2014. Nevertheless we suggest CEMEX successful efforts to continue the We are also pleased to see the progress continue to make sure that processes do reduction of energy and water Supply Chain monitoring and achieved by CEMEX in working conditions not discourage internal reporting and that consumption and are encouraged by development for their employees. Recognizing the there is a proactive effort to have access the increased use of alternative sources The Panel is very pleased to learn of the complexity of working in so many to independent information. of energy, particularly from recycled efforts to enhance the sustainability of the countries with very different cultures and waste, alternative fuel and renewables supply chain, in particular the engagement standards, we nevertheless would like to Overall we are pleased with the positive (although the progress seems to have of a consulting firm to help with the efforts. see more efforts in enhancing the number trend towards sustainability being peaked for some sources). In particular, We look forward to the results of the of countries where programs for child, demonstrated by CEMEX, and continued we are pleased by the development of evaluation of critical suppliers, particularly dependent and elderly care are available. improvements in how this is reported. We the water policy and look forward to those that are located in countries with These are some of the major obstacles encourage the company to build on and the further reduction in consumption relatively low social and environmental for women´s participation in economic intensify its efforts so as to make still faster that its implementation and the external standards, and especially concerning activity. This might also help to alleviate progress in its contribution to sustainable verification will bring. For future reports we human rights. We also look forward to the low percentage of women in Executive development and a better society. would like to see information of the stress seeing the actions taken by CEMEX as a positions. We encourage CEMEX to report in the different sources of water used in result of the evaluations. on their efforts to achieve a better gender the different countries and the actions balance at the higher levels. taken to mitigate potential scarcity and We note that only 12 percent of competition with other users. procurement value is assessed using the We notice that 32 percent of sites do not Supplier Sustainability program. While the conduct social impact assessment studies. For more information on our Advisory Panel please visit our webpage. 102 Table of To Our Our Building Social Enviromental Values Into Stakeholder Additional Contents Stakeholders Business Solutions Strategy Excellence Actions Engagement Information PwC’s Limited Assurance Report Independent Limited Assurance Report on the CO2 emissions, safety, environmental incidents and other Cement CO2 and Energy Protocol”, the “Safety in Conclusions: emissions Key Performance Indicators reported by CEMEX from January 1st through December 31st, 2014 the cement industry: Guidelines for measuring and reporting”, the CEMEX corporate procedure on Based on the results of our review, nothing has come to “Environmental Incident Reporting” and the our attention that causes us to believe that: “Guidelines for Emissions Monitoring and Reporting in the Cement Industry”, respectively; and in The KPIs have not, in all material respects, been To the Board of Directors of CEMEX S.A.B de C.V. Lost Time Injury Frequency rate (LTI FR) for accordance with the Mexican regulation: NMXprepared in accordance with “The Cement CO2 and Constitución 444, Col. Centro, Monterrey N.L., directly employed and contractors. SAA-14064-3-IMNC-2007/ISO 14064-3:2006, Energy Protocol”, the “Safety in the cement México Lost Time Injury Severity rate (LTI SR) for Guidelines and orientation for the validation and industry: Guidelines for measuring and reporting”, P.C. 64000 directly employed and contractors. verification of Green House Gases Statements, scope the “Environmental Incident Reporting” procedure 1 and scope 2. and the “Guidelines for Emissions Monitoring and Upon request of CEMEX, we have carried out an  Number of Environmental Incidents category 1and Reporting in the Cement Industry”. independent limited review of CO2 emissions, safety, 2, as defined by CEMEX Corporate in its  At corporate level, we conducted interviews with the environmental incidents and other emissions Key operational and administrative procedure individuals responsible for the preparation and The CO2 emissions, safety, environmental incidents Performance Indicators (“the KPI’s”) reported by “Environmental Incident Reporting”. execution of the reporting procedures as well as for type 1 and 2, and other emissions contain material Global CEMEX Operations in the 2014 Sustainable the consolidation of data. At this level we performed misstatements. Development Report:  Other emissions indicators (dust, NOx and SOx) analytical procedures and verified, on a sample basis, estimated according to the WBCSD-CSI the calculations and consolidation of data; PwC has issued a consolidated report “Verification  Our services have been delivered in accordance with “Guidelines for Emissions Monitoring and Consolidated Report CEMEX 2014” with all the the Mexican regulation (approved by the Instituto Reporting in the Cement Industry” (version 2,  At regional coordination level, we conducted results of the visits for each plant visited in the scope Mexicano de Normalización y Certificación, IMNC) March 2012): interviews with the individuals responsible for the of this verification. : NMX-SAA-14064-3-IMNC-2007/ISO 14064-3: KPIs reporting and performed analytical tests; 2006 Guidelines and orientation for the validation Overall coverage rate Mexico, May 12th, 2015 and verification of Green House Gases Statements Rate of clinker generated with continuous  We selected a sample of locations (9 cement plants regarding the principles and requirements for GHG monitoring of dust, NOx and SOx worldwide that represents 34.8% of the clinker Inventory verification. We planned and performed Absolute and specific emissions data of dust production) in order to perform site visits and specific procedures aimed to obtain a limited Absolute and specific emissions data of NOx executed the following : assurance level that the GHG emission statement of Absolute and specific emissions data of SOx CEMEX’s work centers does not contain material We reviewed site organization and procedures, in misstatements, and has been developed according to The KPIs have been prepared by and are the particular those regarding KPIs reporting; the following guidelines for Cement Operations. responsibility of CEMEX Management. Our We assessed control procedures on key responsibility consists of issuing conclusions about their parameters, and  For Cement Operation, CO2 emissions calculated consistency and reliability based on our review work We performed reconciliation of reported data with Enrique Alejandro Bertran according to WBCSD-CSI “The Cement CO2 and and scope described in the next paragraph. the supporting documentation and verified on a Partner Energy Protocol” (version 3.1, December 2013) sample basis the arithmetical accuracy of Sustainability & Climate Change Scope1 and Scope 2: Basis, objective and scope of the verification calculations. PricewaterhouseCoopers, S.C. Absolute gross and net CO2 emissions. Validation/Verification Organism of GHG accredited Specific gross and net CO2 emissions. Our work was performed based on verification  We analyzed the consolidated KPIs reported by by ema to the Industrial Sector, Alternative fuels indicators (alternative fossil and standards established by the International Federation of CEMEX in the 2014 Sustainable Development Accreditation No. OVVGEI 003/14 since March 6th, biomass fuels). Accountants, under the International Standard for Report to verify consistency with the results of our 2014. Total indirect CO2 emissions. Assurance Engagement ISAE 3000 pertaining to limited work. assurance. We planned and performed the procedures  Safety indicators for cement, ready mix and set out below to obtain limited assurance as to whether aggregates, estimated according to the guidelines of the KPIs are free of material misstatements. A higher WBCSD-CSI “Safety in the cement industry: level of assurance would have required more extensive Guidelines for measuring and reporting” (version procedures. 4.0, updated May 2013): Fatality rate for directly employed and  We assessed CEMEX reporting procedures for The contractors. KPIs with regard to their consistency with “The PricewaterhouseCoopers, S. C., Mariano Escobedo 573. Col. Rincón del Bosque. 11580 México D. F. PricewaterhouseCoopers, S. C., Mariano Escobedo 573. Col. Rincón del Bosque. 11580 México D. F. Teléfono: 5263 6000. Fax: 5263 6010. www.pwc.com Teléfono: 5263 6000. Fax: 5263 6010. www.pwc.com 103 Table of To Our Our Building Social Enviromental Values Into Stakeholder Additional Contents Stakeholders Business Solutions Strategy Excellence Actions Engagement Information development strategic planning process, as • CO2 Emissions: CEMEX reports absolute • Clinker factor and alternative fuels: All About this Report reflected in our Sustainable Model. For more information as well as updates throughout the and specific CO2 emissions following the latest version of the CSI Protocol, denominated: The material consumption is reported to internal CEMEX databases in which “alternative year, please visit the Sustainable Development Cement CO2 and Energy Protocol, version materials” are defined following the standards section of our website. 3.1, published in May 2011. As defined in from the CSI Guidelines for the Selection and the protocol, it considers direct emissions Use of Fuels and Raw Materials in the Cement Reporting History and Cycle Unless otherwise indicated, the information occurring from sources that are owned or Manufacturing Process. provided in this report is for the company as controlled by the company excluding those CEMEX began publishing annual environmental, a whole. We have included information for from the combustion of biomass that are The “clinker/cement factor” is calculated using health, and safety reports in 1996, and published the operations in which we have financial and reported separately (Scope 1) and indirect the CSI procedures indicated in The Cement its first Sustainable Development Report in 2003. operative control. If a plant is sold, its information emissions from the generation of purchased CO2 and Energy Protocol spreadsheet with The company has been engaged in annual is no longer included in our data or considered in electricity consumed in the company’s owned information obtained from the databases. sustainability reporting since then and published our targets. If we have restated certain data sets or controlled equipment (Scope 2). Historical its most recent report in May 2014. from previous years because of improvements data shall remain unchanged given that the • Safety: An internal CEMEX safety database to our data-collection systems or changes to previous protocol is closely aligned with the collects all related safety information from This, the company’s full 2014 Sustainable our business, each case is clearly marked. All simple methods for reporting of the calcination each site and automatically provides the Development Report, is our twelfth such report monetary amounts are reported in US dollars. All CO2 emissions. For countries covered by the appropriate information to calculate the and covers the broad range of our economic, references to “tons” are to metric tons. European Union Emission Trading System indicators. The database is configured using environmental, social and governance issues (EU ETS), CO2 Emissions data corresponds to the WBCSD / CSI definitions. and performance. The information for this report came from the one verified by and independent verifier in several sources, including internal management accordance with the applicable Accreditation United Nations Global Compact In the last six years we applied the Global systems and performance databases and our and Verification Regulation. Communication on Progress Reporting Initiative (GRI) G3 Sustainability Sustainable Development Report Survey, a Reporting Guidelines together with the Mining questionnaire sent to all countries where we • Dust, NOx and SOx emissions: Absolute This report constitutes our Communication on & Metals Sector Supplement meeting an have operations. Data from this survey is then and specific figures are calculated based Progress toward the commitments of the United application level of A+. aggregated. This approach has enabled us on kiln emission measurements taken from Nations Global Compact (UNGC). As a signatory to report progress on our key performance Continuous Emissions Monitoring Systems to the Global Compact, we work to align our As of this year, we have migrated to the indicators for the company as a whole. (in those sites where kilns are equipped with company’s operations and strategies with its GRI-G4 Guidelines, using the “in accordance” such technology) or spot analysis. These ten principles. We are also committed to helping Comprehensive option. Our materiality analysis We aim to improve the transparency and methods fully comply with the CSI Guidelines the world meet the targets of the Kyoto Protocol guided our reporting process, and the issues completeness of each report that we produce for Emissions Monitoring and Reporting. All and Millennium Development Goals. included in this report match those that CEMEX while streamlining our processes and the way information is reported to CEMEX databases, management and our stakeholders found in which we provide information. We include processed, calculated and validated to provide The GRI index is cross referenced to the UNGC of the higher and highest importance for our a statement from PricewaterhouseCoopers, a final group value. The values are calculated principles. It can be found on our website and is operations. Furthermore, we have submitted which verified our data on greenhouse gas in Standard for 0ºC, 1 atmosphere and 10% available for download. our 2014 Sustainable Development Report to emissions, atmospheric emissions, alternative Oxygen (O2) content at measuring point. the Global Reporting Initiative, requesting the fossil and biomass fuels rates, environmental We welcome your feedback on our Materiality Disclosures Service. incidents and safety indicators for our cement, • Energy: Fuel consumption indicators are sustainability reporting and performance. ready-mix and aggregates operations. reported to internal CEMEX databases Please send your comments and suggestions Boundary and Reporting Period in which “conventional”, “alternative” and to sd@cemex.com, or write to us at: In addition, we engaged our Sustainable “biomass fuels” are classified according to This report covers our global cement, readyDevelopment Reporting Advisory Panel, which the CSI Cement CO2 protocol spreadsheet. mix concrete and aggregates operations, provides feedback on our reporting. Heat values are obtained from on-site CEMEX, S.A.B. de C.V. presenting our sustainability performance, analysis (where applicable), value provided by Corporate Communications progress, achievements and challenges for Data Measurement Techniques supplier or standards from the CSI Guidelines and Public Affairs the 2014 calendar year, which is also the for the Selection and Use of Fuels and Raw Av. Ricardo Margain Zozaya 325 company’s fiscal year. We have emphasized We employ the following protocols and Materials in the Cement Manufacturing San Pedro Garza Garcia, NL those issues identified as high-priority through techniques for measuring the key performance Process. C.P. 66265 Mexico both our materiality analysis and our sustainable indicator (KPI) data that we report: Tel: +52 (81) 8888-8888 G4-17, G4-18, G4-20, G4-21 · 104 Table of To Our Our Building Social Enviromental Values Into Stakeholder Additional Contents Stakeholders Business Solutions Strategy Excellence Actions Engagement Information GRI as the Cornerstone for Robust Reporting CEMEX understands sustainability Initiative (GRI) guidelines to prepare its Sustainability material issues: 17. Water use and recycling reporting as a path to setting ambitious Sustainable Development Reports. 1. Economic value creation 18. Waste generation, disposal and goals, measuring performance, and 2. Customer engagement and recycling keeping open communication with our To enhance reliability, since 2007, we satisfaction 19. Transport and logistic optimization stakeholders about our sustainability conduct external limited assurance for a 3. Health and safety for our employees, 20. Environmental incidents management results. number of our key performance indicators contractors and third parties for our industry, including CO2, dust, NOx 4. Climate change and CO2 emissions Continuing on this path, and to better To this end, CEMEX began publishing and SOx emissions, safety indicators such management align our report with stakeholder’s main environmental, health, and safety as Fatality Rate and Lost Time Injury Rate 5. Renewable and alternative energy interests, CEMEX decided to prepare its reports in 1996. Since 2003, we publish and Environmental Incidents. sourcing 2014 Sustainable Development Report full annual Sustainable Development 6. Corporate governance and using the GRI-G4 Guidelines, opting for the Reports. For more details please From 2008 to 2013, CEMEX met the transparency “in accordance” Comprehensive option, visit our Global Reports Hub: www. G3 A+, GRI Checked Application Level. 7. Employee relations and engagement and requesting the Global Reporting cemex.com/SustainableDevelopment/ Furthermore we reported using the Mining 8. Products, services and solutions to Initiative to conduct the Materiality GlobalReports.aspx & Metals Sector Supplement from 2011 improve lifestyle in cities Disclosures Service. to 2013. 9. Air quality management (SOx, NOx Since our earlier reports, CEMEX has and other emissions) To read our 2014 full GRI Content pursued the preparation of balanced, To build a platform that allows us to be 10. Human rights and ethics in business Index, please visit: www.cemex. comparable, and accurate reports that fully inclusive of stakeholders’ concerns 11. Products, services and solutions for com/SustainableDevelopment/files/ present to our stakeholders a detailed in our reports, in 2010 we implemented a high energy efficiency GriIndex2014.pdf picture of our sustainability efforts and materiality analysis, and updated it in 2013. 12. Community engagement and results. As part of this process, we have development Our commitment, as Sustainability continually enhanced our data collection The conclusions of the materiality Reporting continues to evolve in the tools and engaged new relevant corporate analyses provided great insight on our Other key (non-material) issues: future, is to keep finding new ways to and operation areas through formal stakeholders and top management 13. Risk management engage and address stakeholder’s mechanisms. main sustainability concerns for CEMEX, 14. Quarry rehabilitation, biodiversity concerns, in order to present a robust allowing us to establish a well defined preservation and ecosystems and complete coverage of our economic, In order to enhance sustainability group of sustainability issues to base management environmental, and social impacts and communications to our stakeholders our sustainability strategy and reporting. 15. Responsible and sustainable opportunities. and comply with internationally agreed These include: management of the supply chain disclosures and metrics, since 2008 16. Products, services and solutions for CEMEX uses the Global Reporting low income families 105
