CSR Code 2012/2013 CSR Code Sustainable Development Report Nowy Styl Group 2012/2013 Contents Nowy Styl Group in numbers 4 1 Who are we? 9 1.1 Our strategy 14 1.2 Company’s leadership 16 1.3 Financial results 18 1.4 Operating principles 20 1.5 Quality 21 2 Our responsibility 27 2.1 Dialogue with stakeholders 30 3 Our employees 35 3.1 Employment 36 3.2 Wages 40 3.3 Education and training courses 41 3.4 Fringe benefits 44 3.5 Anti-discrimination practices 44 3.6 Occupational health and safety 44 3.7 Complete tabular data showing indicators 46 4 Our influence on the environment 53 4.1 Energy 54 4.2 Water management 56 4.3 Wastewater volume 57 4.4 Emissions to air 58 4.5 Waste management 59 4.6 Total expenses and investments relating to environmental protection 62 4.7 Transport 63 5 Our suppliers 67 6 Our customers 73 6.1 Ergonomics 74 6.2 Product labelling 75 6.3 Customer health and safety 76 6.4 Marketing communication 78 6.5 Customer satisfaction survey 80 7 Our neighbours 85 8 About the report 91 8.1 Verification of the report 92 8.2 GRI Content Index 94 Annual average exchange rate used in this report: 2012 – EUR 4,1736, 2013 – EUR 4,2110 Dear readers, associates, friends, customers and business partners, We are very pleased to give you the first Sustainable Development Report compiled by Nowy Styl Group, which covers 2012 and 2013. It has been written in accordance with the international Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4 Guidelines. This report crowns several months of hard work and effort made by an interdisciplinary project team consisting of a great number of people, so it is very important to us. We are proud to give you this document, not only as a summary of our business activities concerning sustainable development, but also, most importantly, as our obligation. It is an obligation to go on and develop further; an obligation to take responsibility and try our utmost to minimise the impact we make on the natural environment; an obligation to create total value added for all of our stakeholders. We are pleased to confirm that Nowy Styl Group reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. Sustainable development – the focus of the whole report – means a lot to us and shapes the way we think about running the business. We observe the globalising world intently, spotting both the advantages and disadvantages of the processes that happen every day. We are aware of the fact that the future is determined by the actions we take and the attitude we adopt today. This is the conviction we have based our market success on, so we know what we’re talking about. Both our business aims and the vision of our company are based on three pillars – People, Product and Environment – and these coincide with the sustainable development policy. By strengthening the harmony between these pillars, we gain a competitive advantage. People are Nowy Styl Group’s greatest capital; if it hadn’t been for their courage, creativity, motivation, experience and qualifications, we wouldn’t be so successful now. Their hard work results in high quality products that meet the needs of our customers all over the world. To produce these we use both renewable and non-renewable resources, becoming indebted to the natural environment and local community. This is a kind of debt we feel obliged to pay off. All these elements are mutually connected, creating a chain of values. By implementing the sustainable development guidelines, we are able to manage this chain skilfully. Over the last few months we have been inspired to make some changes and we treat the current report as the beginning of this process. We are well prepared to do this. We have pinpointed not only our strengths and weaknesses but also the challenges and threats we will have to face. We know that we must work hard to achieve our aims. But at the same time, we are strongly motivated to fulfil our promises and to present the results we desire from our work in the next report covering 2014 and 2015. In the meantime we would like to encourage you to read this report carefully and hold us to our promises. We hope you will find our experiences inspiring. With kind regards, Management Board of Nowy Styl Group Adam Krzanowski Jerzy Krzanowski Rafał Chwast Dariusz Frydrych Roman Przybylski Nowy Styl Group in numbers 2013 100 Presence in more than countries The 4 th biggest chair and office furniture manufacturer in Europe 14 factories in Poland, Germany, Ukraine and Russia Energy consumption 38 206 486 kWh 4 19 13 departments in countries 3435 employees 172 Revenue m eur 15 13 showrooms in countries Water consumption 134 185 m3 5 1 Who are we? Who are we? 1 The story of Nowy Styl Group starts in 1992, when brothers Adam and Jerzy Krzanowski make a very brave decision to establish their own company. This is a story of a success achieved by a company that, within 20 years, has evolved from a small family business into an international enterprise: the 4th biggest office solutions supplier in Europe. This success is the result of a constant search for new poscreate obstacles impossible to overcome. Ours is a motivation sibilities, close observation of the changing world, quick and to do more and develop together with our customers. precise response to changes and, finally, successful dialogue with customers. This success is an autonomy, which makes us independent of business fluctuations and external destabilising factors; Nowy Styl Group, its history, achievements and the way it funcautonomy achieved by territorial diversification. It is our protions, are described by special values that create our unique duction and financial autonomy, which we possess thanks to code – the DNA of our company. This is a set of values that has our own production plants that have made us independent of determined our market success and helped us earn the trust our sub-suppliers. of thousands of customers all over the world. This success is built on the confidence our partners have in our company. Finally, this success is an alternative that can be perceived in giving our customers a wide range of options to choose This success is a talent for discovering and making use of from, and in our offer of unconventional furniture solutions; different opportunities; a talent for understanding the market this is flexibility in adjusting to our customers’ needs and the and running our dynamically developing business; an ability changing world. to make thorough changes and brave decisions. This success is also a determination to pursue our aims, comThis success is the courage to take up new challenges, discover mitment and dedication. This is a patchwork of stories about new opportunities, make difficult decisions and shoulder the the achievements of the customers, partners, companies and responsibility. institutions we cooperate with every day. These are the people for whom we would like to develop further elements of our This success is a motivation to develop further, look for inspiraunique DNA code. These are the people we would like to help tion and optimal solutions, take up challenges that for others achieve more, and to whom we dedicate our success. 9 What do we do? We offer our customers comprehensive furniture solutions Our portfolio comprises six product brands: Nowy Styl, BN Ofdesigned for office spaces, public places and home interiors. fice Solution, Grammer Office, Rohde & Grahl, Forum Seating However, our business activity is not limited to manufacturing and Baltic Wood. These brands offer office chairs and furnifurniture. We aim to provide a comprehensive service, so we ture, armchairs, sofas, sports seats, cinema and theatre seats, also use our qualifications to support our customers in space auditorium seats, as well as excellent quality parquet floors. arrangement. We think alternatively and, thanks to our ability to recognise market trends, we adjust to our customers’ needs We deliver comprehensive solutions for public places, such as in a flexible way. That is why the spectrum of our business offices, conference and training rooms and sports arenas. We activities involves the efficiency analysis of the company, planequipped all Polish stadiums for the UEFA European Championning support, removal services and old furniture utilisation. ship 2012, as well as the stadiums in the RSA and Romania; it was our chairs that heads of government were sitting on One of the strong aspects of our company is the variety that during the NATO Lisbon Summit; our chairs can be found in meets our customers’ individual expectations all over the world. the most prestigious concert halls both in Poland and Europe. Furniture is our passion. Every day we try our utmost to create solutions perfectly adjusted to the changing needs and expectations of our customers. Following our precise development strategy we have become the fourth biggest office furniture manufacturer in Europe. Adam Krzanowski President of the Nowy Styl Group’s Management Board N o w y S t y l G r o u p ’ s s a l e s d e pa r t m e n t s : be BELGIUM nl The Netherlands pl POLAND cz CZECH REPUBLIC kz KAZAKHSTAN ru RUSSIA fr FRANCE de GERMANY sk SLOVAKIA 10 Who are we? 1 Being awarded and appreciated all over the world, Nowy Styl work we can supply our furniture to virtually any place in the Group’s products have excellent ergonomic properties, ensure world. Our own international distribution network comprises great acoustics and improve comfort at any workstation. We 19 sales departments all over the world (existing in the most also offer furniture designed for eating-places – restaurants, important European markets, the USA and the United Arab cafés, and food courts – as well as for home interiors – dining Emirates), and features local sales structures. Employing local rooms and kitchens. Our collections of excellent parquet flomanagers and workers who distribute Nowy Styl Group prodors have already won international recognition, and perfectly ucts to local markets enables us to observe trends in each of complement our product portfolio. these countries. The range of office solutions offered by Nowy Styl Group is presented in 15 showrooms located in Warsaw, We deliver our furniture solutions to over 100 countries London, Paris, Dusseldorf, Munich, Prague, Bratislava and around the world. We have marked our international presence Moscow. We also have more than a dozen production plants in Taiwan, the RSA, Kenya, the United Arab Emirates and Chile, with cutting-edge technologies, located in Poland, Germany, and of course in Europe. Thanks to our great logistics netUkraine and Russia. Us THE UNITED STATES hu HUNGARY THE UNITED ua UKRAINE ae ARAB EMIRATES uk United Kingdom 11 Our brands and solutions Nowy Styl BN Office Solution Grammer Office The first and the oldest brand that A comprehensive offer of office and A collection of office chairs with offers the widest in Europe range of managerial furniture designed by the worldwide patented GLIDE-TEC chairs designed for any interior. world-class designers. mechanism, designed by German experts. 12 Who are we? 1 Rohde & Grahl Forum Seating Baltic Wood A wide range of technologically Seating solutions for auditoriums, A choice of excellent 3-layer advanced German furniture cinemas, stadiums and telescopic and solid parquet floors inspired and office armchairs. tribunes. by fashion. 13 1.1 Our strategy Mission and services, available around the world. Thanks to innovative technologies, we accompany our customers and create Our mission is to deliver comprehensive furniture solutions, expectations designed to meet their needs. and care about ergonomics and comfort at work. We listen Environment: The sense of responsibility for our environment carefully to our customers and respond to their individual motivates us to monitor the impact we make on our surroundneeds, intending to improve the quality of their lives. ings. We choose active technologies that help us increase the productivity and energy efficiency of our manufacturing Vision processes. Our vision is based on three pillars: There are three basic values that we remain faithful to in all our People: We build good and long-lasting relationships within the activities: locality, transparency and flexibility. While building business and social environment. We develop further through relationships both inside and outside the company and plana constant dialogue with the local community, our customers ning our development, we always try to obey these rules. It and contractors. means that we act openly, take care of the environment, and Product: The motto “Delivering variety” determines the direction do our best to follow the needs of the people and institutions of our business activities. We offer a wide range of products connected with us. Locality People Environment Product Transparency Flexibility Operating strategy nobody even imagined that personal contact with customers would turn into such elaborate electronic communication using The priority in all our business activities is to create new fura wide variety of computer tools. niture solutions and provide comprehensive services. When we started our business 22 years ago, we did not expect to be Within the 22 years of our business presence, we have alcompeting with foreign companies and dealing with cheaper ways tried to take up new challenges courageously, observe products from emerging markets flooding the market, economic social changes and trends carefully, and respond quickly to crises and currency fluctuations. Back then, nobody even dared our customers’ needs. Almost since the beginning, we have to think that Nowy Styl would evolve into Nowy Styl Group; invested our revenue in further development, manufacturing that it would establish foreign branches and tender hand in technologies and our products themselves. hand with the biggest international enterprises. Back then, 14 Who are we? 1 In 1997 when there was an economic crisis in the eastern At the same time, we continue to expand the portfolio of our markets, we decided quickly to redirect our sales to the West. own brands, by cooperating with the world’s best designers During the industry crisis on western markets in 2001 – we and creating new chair and furniture solutions. We become focused on intensifying our distribution network. When there more knowledgeable about acoustics and the ergonomics of was an economic slowdown in 2009, we made a quick decia workstation, fulfilling the current market requirements. sion to adjust the expense ratio and reorganise our company. To meet the needs of our customers, we extend the range of Now we act as one company in many different countries; we comprehensive services we provide. In close cooperation with manufacture and sell similar products that are very often research centres, we conduct surveys on the efficiency of emadjusted to the needs and tastes of local customers. ployees working in our customers’ offices. The spectrum of our services is constantly expanding. Depending on the customers’ The parent company is located in Poland, while the subsidiary needs, we can help them with their move to new interiors, and companies are located abroad. In this way we have reduced the with old furniture utilisation. Our company collaborates with risk resulting from a possible economic or political crisis that business partners who supply complementary office equipment may occur in foreign markets. Particular subsidiaries function as products, such as carpets, lighting and partition walls. local enterprises that employ local staff, follow local rules, etc. The divisions that have remained joined are marketing, human We know that customers and companies differ from one anresources, salaries and the IT and accounting departments. other. Everyone possesses the unique DNA code of their own Besides the notable financial benefits, joining these areas has business. Our strategy aims to recognise particular genes in allowed us to standardise sales and distribution processes. the code, and create a unique offer of solutions and services for every single customer. Looking for new business opportunities is a natural consequence of the adopted development strategy. We constantly explore We like to look at our customers’ needs and compare them to our potential and search for new possibilities of expanding our the way a string of DNA code functions: the elements are the company in further markets. same, but the arrangement is unique. One of our key skills is the ability to define specific needs and make every effort to The strategy of Nowy Styl Group also aims to strengthen the meet them. company’s position in the contract market, by enriching its portfolio with products that would satisfy the needs of customOwing to our history, we have specific features in our genetic ers all over the world. By purchasing products of worldwide makeup that make us a partner capable of recognising the brands and adding them to our portfolio, we are able to offer unique DNA code of our customers and, most importantly, our customers an even greater range of alternatives concerning adapting to meet the needs of their code. comprehensive office and public places equipment. N o w y S t y l G r o u p ’ s f o r e i gn a c q u i s i t i o ns 2011 2013 15 1.2 Company’s leadership Since 1992 Nowy Styl Group has been run by its decided to share their authority with experienced founders – brothers Adam and Jerzy Krzanowski. managers. Since then, Nowy Styl Group and all its They have transformed their small family business subsidiaries have been managed by a Management into a company that functions on a global scale: Board, consisting of five people who are each reNowy Styl Group. While they were preparing for sponsible for a particular division of the company. the company’s reorganisation in 2008, the brothers Adam Krzanowski Co-founder of Nowy Styl and President of its Management Board since 2009. He has been running the company since the very beginning. Being an experienced entrepreneur and strategist, he has been awarded many times for his business competencies, as well as for community involvement and his entrepreneurship-supporting attitude. Jerzy Krzanowski Co-founder of Nowy Styl and Director since 1993. The company’s Vice President since 2009, he previously ran the investment and purchasing departments. He is responsible for controlling the sub-suppliers and strengthening the company’s innovation potential. He established the Janusz Korczak Foundation, which provides support to talented young people. He is also committed to social contribution activities. Rafał Chwast Vice President of Nowy Styl Group since 2008. He is responsible for the finance, IT, acquisitions and organisational strategy of Nowy Styl Group. Before joining Nowy Styl Group, he worked for the company Comarch. He is an economist and financier both by profession and by avocation. He was previously President of SEG – Association of Stock Exchange Issuers. Dariusz Frydrych Operational Director and member of the Nowy Styl Group’s Management Board since 2010. He is responsible for the Technical, Logistic and Quality Divisions, as well as HR. He also oversees teams at seven production plants. Before that, he worked for Delphi Automotive Systems Poland occupying the positions of the Quality Director, Logistics Director and Operational Director. He successfully applies the experience he gained in the automotive industry to the furniture industry. Roman Przybylski Director of the Sales Division and member of the Nowy Styl Group’s Management Board since the beginning of 2009, and associated with Nowy Styl Group since 2003. Initially, he was involved in building overseas distribution networks in western countries and exercising owner’s supervision over those networks. His daily work includes supervising Sales Divisions both in Poland and abroad. He is also a board member of the Group’s foreign subsidiaries. 16 Who are we? 1 Nowy Styl Group’s Structure Nowy Styl GmbH – the subsidiary responsible for manufacturing and distributing Nowy Styl Group products on the Nowy Styl Group is a corporate group that consists of Nowy German market. Styl Sp. z o.o. and all its subsidiaries responsible for foreign Rohde & Grahl GmbH* – the subsidiary since 2013, when it departments in particular countries. The detailed information was purchased and placed under the umbrella of Nowy Styl presented in this report concerns only the following companies Group. It is responsible for manufacturing and distributing that have been chosen according to the materiality principle: Rohde & Grahl products on the German market. Nowy Styl Sp. z o.o. – the “parent” company. * Rohde & Grahl company has been part of Nowy Styl Group’s portfolio Baltic Wood S.A. – the subsidiary responsible for manufacsince June 2013, therefore the data presented in the report covers only the turing and distributing Baltic Wood products – parquet floors. period from June to December 2013. N OWY S TYL G ROUP Nowy Styl Baltic Wood Nowy Styl Rohde & Grahl Sp. z o.o. S.A. GmbH GmbH In the report, the name Nowy Styl Sp. z o.o. is used to present where the Rohde & Grahl GmbH factories are located. In 2013 all the data concerning Timber Manufacturing Plant in Rzepedź, the total production area covered 225 500 m3. Office Furniture Factory in Krosno, Production Plant in Besko and Korczyna (no longer open; production was transferred to While talking about Nowy Styl GmbH, it is necessary to mention Jasło in 2013), Metal Component Production Plant, Armchair that the production of component parts that external entities and Chair Production Plant and Plastic Processing Plant in Jasło. had previously been commissioned to do, was transferred to the production plants of Nowy Styl Sp. z o.o. in 2011 during Our products are manufactured not only in Poland but also the company’s acquisition. Only product assembly still takes in Ebermannsdorf in Germany, and in Voigtei and Steyerherg, place in Germany. This has enabled us to optimise costs and shorten transport distances. 17 1.3 Financial results DMA: G4The dynamic development of Nowy Styl Group Our financial results are presented according to the consolidated EC1-4 EC1 provides great obligations. We are aware of the data for all of the departments of Nowy Styl Group. Our unique responsibility we have to all of our stakeholders. Our company achievement, in terms of the organisation of the company is that is built on solid foundations: financial security, efficient organialthough the group operates on various markets, we are able sational structure and decision-making processes and a group to function as a one virtual body. This allows us to share the of trusted professionals. The stability of our company gives our experience between our employees located in different countries. employees, customers, contractors and the local community, We are also able to measure in the scale of the Group what being the recipient and beneficiary of our business activities, value is generated for the customer. Therefore, the indicators a sense of security. Being one of the biggest employers in the shown in the report are presented on the basis of consolidated region, and a strong partner of non-governmental organisations, data, that is, in a consistent manner how we report our financial we know that the role we play is a crucial one. Therefore, one results to the financial institutions, as well as how we analyse of the basic values we maintain every day is transparency. We our financial situation within the company – says Rafał Chwast, keep the accounts in a meticulous and transparent way; we Vice President of Nowy Styl Group and Chief Financial Officer. account for our financial results on time and report them to proper institutions. We are eager to cooperate with experts The consolidated presentation of our financial results is also conducting external audits. due to the changes that were made in the ownership structure of our subsidiaries within the time covered by this report – we purchased the German company Rohde & Grahl and we were assimilating Sato Office company into our structures. However, in the future we will do our utmost to widen the range of data we present, so that it includes detailed information about particular companies belonging to Nowy Styl Group. GRI EC1 Nowy Styl Nowy Styl Group 2012 2013 Group Financial EUR* PLN EUR* PLN Results (EUR* × 1000 Direct economic value 153 074,25 638 870,68 172 419,06 726 056,68 / PLN × 1000) generated a) Revenues 153 074,25 638 870,68 172 419,06 726 056,68 Economic value 146 137,21 609 918,25 164 429,15 692 411,15 distributed b) Operating costs 104 769,50 437 265,98 119 904,70 504 918,69 c) Employee wages 36 137,76 150 824,57 40 609,02 171 004,59 and benefits d) Payments to 5 059,19 21 115,04 2 616,69 11 018,88 providers of capital e) Payments to 42,13 175,84 1 171,62 4 933,70 government f) Community 125,86 525,31 115,32 485,60 investments Economic value 6 939,80 28 963,95 8 001,72 33 695,23 retained * Annual average exchange rate used in this report: 2012 – EUR 4,1736, 2013 – EUR 4,2110 18 Who are we? 1 Investments spaces of huge companies with a few hundred workstations. We can see that our production capacities are not enough for G4During the financial crisis in 2009, the vast majority such a great number of orders. Therefore, we treat our further EC4 of companies decided to suspend their investments in investments as a necessity. The floor area of our new factory, production or new technologies. Our company, however, acted equipped with modern and innovative production lines, covers against the general trend and adopted the so-called “Escape 24 000 m2. The factory has been co-funded by the European Forward” strategy. Thanks to this approach, now that the market Union under the European Regional Development Fund. We is stabilising, our company is in a much better situation than have been awarded EUR 9,5m. our competitors – says Roman Przybylski, Board Member of Nowy Styl Group and Director of the Sales Division. – Our deIn 2012 we were allocated another fund for a project involving cision to build a new Office Furniture Factory in Jasło resulted the production of chairs made of composite panels. More defrom our further development plans. We have been changing tailed information on this project is on page 60. our production profile successively. Only a few years ago we were focused mainly on manufacturing chairs. Nowadays we The following table shows the amount of financial help we provide a wide range of services concerning office areas and received from the Polish Government in 2012 and 2013 to public interiors furnishing. We are currently carrying out sevbuild our office furniture factory. eral important projects. Our company has been fitting office GRI EC4 Funds 2012 2013 allocated by Polish EUR* PLN EUR* PLN Agency for Enterprise European Regional 1 620 421,55 6 762 991,40 4 556 172,79 19 186 043,62 Development Development Fund (ERDF) (EUR*/PLN) The State Treasury 285 956,74 1 193 469,06 804 030,49 3 385 772,40 TOTAL 1 906 378,30 7 956 460,46 5 360 203,28 22 571 816,02 * Yearly average exchange rate used in this report: 2012 – EUR 4,1736, 2013 – EUR 4,2110 Our promises: In 2014 we will finish building our new office furniture factory. It will be a completely automated production plant, thanks to which we will significantly increase our production capacities. Our project completion time will be decreased thanks to the introduction of innovative solutions. More flexible manufacturing systems will enable us to increase our productivity regardless of the number or size of orders. We will improve the quality and durability of our furniture by improving the binding of boards and edges to an even greater extent. This will be achieved by introducing laser technology for veneering curvilinear elements. 19 1.4 Operating principles Honesty – without double Violation of free competition standards principles DMA: G4Everyone appreciates cooperation with frank peoDMA: G4Since the very beginning, we have done our best SO4 SO4 SO7 SO7 ple and organisations. So do we; therefore we set to obey the principles of free market competition, certain clear boarders that none of Nowy Styl Group’s employboth in Poland and abroad. We constantly talk to and organise ees, partners, suppliers or customers may ever cross. We aim training courses for our Polish distributors, to make sure they to surpass our competitors, yet we treat them with respect. We observe these rules. In 2011 we decided to dedicate one of our use only the quality of our products and services to create the product training blocks to the discussion of legal matters. We competitive advantage. Any dishonest attempts to gain personal invited lawyers working in Andrzej Gotfryd Barrister’s Office benefits or suit our company’s interests are strictly forbidden. to run this block. They told our distributors about the prohibition of vertical and horizontal agreements that clearly violate How do we do this? free competition principles. They also described all the Polish market rules and pinpointed the most common mistakes made We all are responsible for the good reputation of our comby entrepreneurs. During these training courses, our distribupany. That is why every new employee is obliged to familiarise tors had a chance to take free legal advice. This series of trainthemselves with and accept the obligations contained in “Code ing courses was provided not only to sales specialists – our of Conduct” and “Nowy Styl Group’s Employee Principle Card”. distributors’ employees – but also to their bosses, who were These documents pinpoint precisely all our obligations, both trained during Gold and Silver Partners meeting in May 2011. ethical and legal. We have not yet organised training courses for our employees regarding anti-bribery procedures. The same opportunity was given to our sales specialists. Since It is widely believed that “the example always comes from 2011 a thematic block dedicated to anti-bribery policy has been the top”, therefore our company’s leadership, as well as the an integral element of our training courses for distributors. managers responsible for direct sales, participate in professional training courses to dispel all their doubts and help them cope G4Thanks to being consistent in upholding our company’s polSO5 with possible threats. icy concerning this area, we have not noted any instances DMA: G4We act in a transparent way and obey the curof violation of free competition principles or corrupt behaviours. SO8 SO8 rent regulations of law. None of our subsidiaries has ever been imposed significant economic penalties or other non-financial sanctions for violation of law. Our promises: We will compile a Code of Conduct, with which we will improve the standards of our activities and communication by systemising them and creating supervisory tools. We will organise training courses concerning our anti-bribery policy that will be available to our employees on the e-learning platform. 20 Who are we? 1 1.4 Quality Our products’ durability is tested at the very first stage of We aim to depart from the production – when the prototype is constructed. The whole manufacturing process meets the requirements of the Intertraditional way of ensuring national Organisation for Standardisation ISO 9001:2008. product quality, moving To guarantee the highest European quality, our products are from quality based on tested not only in the company’s research laboratory with the its control to improving use of modern technologies but also in independent research institutions both in Poland and abroad, where special certificates the manufacturing and confirming their quality are issued. delivering processes. Thanks to the high quality of our products and precise delivery To achieve this, we ensure control, our customers made complaints about only 0,73% of the proper quality of work all the products manufactured in 2012. In the last year, the index of complaints was even lower (0,72%). This means that at each stage of these no fewer than 99 in 100 customers were satisfied with chairs processes, so that the final or furniture they had bought from us. We try to investigate the complaints of those who are dissatisfied with our product within product is of great quality. a maximum of 10 days (97,23% of complaints investigated out Wioletta Krajewska of all complaints received in 2012, and 97,11% in 2013). Since Quality Director of Nowy Styl Group there are significant differences in data gathering methodology, this information concerns only the products manufactured in Polish factories. Standardisation is the aim of our activities, so in the future we will also be able to monitor this index for the products manufactured in our German factories. 21 Prizes and awards is increasingly placed in various business rankings. This is what really matters to us. Everyone likes being appreciated: So do we. We value every single prize or award we receive, since each one shows us that We especially value the prizes that are connected with our our decisions are good and our effort bears fruit. Our company employees. The title of “Reliable Employer”, for instance, is continues to develop and when our customers and leadership a perfect motivation to create even better working conditions notice that, we are extremely pleased. across the whole company. Even though we treat taking care of our employees as an obvious and natural thing, it is nice to Making brave business decisions means taking a risk. In this know that experts also appreciate this. context, business success is the best prize for us. Every single award we receive in prestigious business rankings makes us Another category of prizes includes those our products are believe that our decisions are the right ones. The National awarded – for their quality and design. The successes we Public Champion Poland title we won in the European Busiachieve in such competitions are very important to us; however, ness Awards competition and our Pillar of Polish Economy title it is our customers’ satisfaction that counts the most. We creconfirm our belief that we are moving in the right direction. We ate our products with our customers in mind. While designing consider our company to be one that is still learning and we particular piece of furniture we think about the needs and observe that all our efforts are having the desired effect. Year expectations of its users. Their decisions to buy our products on year we receive more prizes and awards and our company are the most precious prizes we can ever receive. National Pillar of Public Polish Champion Economy Poland Responsible Business. Good practices. “Sustainable Development Leader” “Reliable Employer” “Product of the Year 2011” eRange 22 in the Office category Who are we? 1 When we start a new and difficult project, we believe strongly Compact. I think this membership has become a milestone in that we will succeed. We do the same when approaching sustainable development of our company – says Adam Krprojects concerning Corporate Social Responsibility. Starting zanowski, the President of the Nowy Styl Group’s Management work on the improvement of the company’s activities in this Board. – Joining the Global Compact community was an official area, we were sure that if we put our hearts and souls into confirmation of what we had known for a long time: developing it, we would achieve the desired results. And, in fact, this is efficient business is possible only in accordance with the rules the happening right now – we are still developing within the CSR community follows. Our intention is to continue moving in this area, learning new things, and all our efforts are being noticed direction, because we are sure we will achieve the success that and appreciated by the public. Among others, we received an will be of benefit both to our customers and business partners. award in the “Sustainable Development Leader” competition organised by Forbes Magazine and PwC. Our efforts concerning the implementation of eco-friendly technologies have also been noticed by the authors of the In 2013, our company appeared for the first time in the RankResponsible Business Forum Report Responsible Business. Good ing of Responsible Companies, ranked in 43rd place. One year practices. Over 400 responsible enterprises are mentioned in later, our company was in 9th place in the same ranking – we the issue, including our company and its technique of using went up 34 places! Since 2013 our company has also been post-industrial waste to manufacture composite boards. a member of Coalition for Responsible Business. We took a very important step in 2012 when we decided to join the UN Global iF Product “Quality Design Award Office” for the Sail chair by Grammer Office Certificate 2012 Ranking of Responsible Companies 2013: 43rd place Member of Global Compact initiative Member of Coalition since 2012 for Responsible Business since 2013 Diamond of the Furniture Industry 2011: eRange 23 2 Our responsibility Our responsibility 2 We know that the dynamic development of Nowy Styl Group would not be possible without our employees and business partners; without their talents and potential. We also make every effort to use the natural resources we are supposed to share with future generations in a reasonable way. The business success we have achieved has enabled us to Our employees have been always very important to us. We change some elements of the world we live in. At the very organise a great number of training and development programs beginning, all our company could do was to support local for them. Our corporate social responsibility (CSR) strategy as community initiatives and donate our chairs. Subsequently, we well as our vision of the way our company functions are based managed to implement ISO standards and modern technologies on three solid pillars: People, Product and Environment – we that have made our production processes more eco-friendly. create integrated programs that are advantageous to everyone. 27 Selected CSR activities People We make children’s dreams come true: Our company organises big charity New Year balls for children, supporting their development and education. We cooperate with the Janusz Korczak Foundation that responds to the needs of non-governmental organisations. We hold Open Days for our employees and their families in our production plants. We conduct a large number of training courses for our employees and partners. Product We support our sub-suppliers, who respect our CSR rules. We train our customers and partners in ergonomics and healthy workstations. We use renewable resources and certified materials (FSC-certified wood, fabrics). We use recycled materials (e.g. plastic, foam) in the manufacture of our products. Environment We have built our own wastewater treatment plant. We educate our employees via the “Be ecofriendly” program. We generate our own “green energy” from biomass. We have worked out and implemented our production project concerning the use of timber waste to manufacture composite boards. 28 Our responsibility 2 Certificates While this report was being compiled, the ratio of certified to non-certified wood used in the manufacturing processes was The high standards of manufacturing processes that take place 40% to 60%. In the case of non-certified wood used by our in our production plants, the quality of our chairs, furniture company, there are special internal procedures for managing and eco-friendly activities are best validated by certificates the suppliers who ensure the wood sources are appropriate. issued by independent institutions: ISO 14001 Global Compact ISO 9001 PN-N18001 DMA: DMA: In 2012 we joined the UN Global Compact – an EN3 EN6 GS certificate international platform for those companies and Quality Office certificate institutions that obey the universal UN regulations concerning FSC certificate human rights, employment standards, environmental protecHygienic certificate tion and anti-bribery policy. We treat our membership as an obligation to be even more involved in public matters and make FSC all our activities even more transparent. In joining the initiaWood is one of the basic materials used in the furniture intive, we promised to follow 10 UN regulations concerning the dustry. It gives our furniture and chairs a unique character. international standards of business ethics. The Communication Just as we pay attention to every detail in our products, we on Progress document that we issue every year proves that take care of the reliability of the source of the wood we use we never waste words. in manufacturing processes. We give our customers an opportunity to choose products made of FSC-certified wood (Forest Stewardship Council). This international certificate guarantees that the wood life cycle, from sowing the seed to cutting down the tree, was in accordance with regulations. 11 2/20 74/1 nr 1 KAT lly tiona I erna EM F int STW Y n of ZEÑ CERT o IE C ro tecti BEZ P he p es. ZAN IA ect t abus Z¥D ights n d resp n r i ghts M U ZAR CY rt a ma TE RA .o. an R uppo d in hu SYS IEN¥ P o uld s ights; an omplicit I HIG p. z Hum o tuy¿alkaS ss s h r c : an ot ectiv e , ¿e sines ed hum ey are n ê S si ierdza B u e ff Potw y o00wKrosno, ul. Plizacja: 49 1: laim t th d the N ciple proc sure tha n an Prin iatio 38-4 a a lok a k e s s o c yfiko wan 6B 2 : m o f a u r ; c rt e yjny czna dukc l. Fabry ciple dom gaining; ory labo ion. ro h ³ad P ³o, u wyc eblo r i n f re e r l s u p at Zak 00 Jas wm P t h e e b a p u o c c 3 8 -2 e si zakr nta¿ wy e : robó hold ollectiv and com t and cy m o uj¹ m ur stêp nie i ld up c d men w na erowa rmy: Labo shou right to of force r; and ploy tapic ia no . z o.o s e s f e m agan 2004 T Sp. i n e s f t h e o r m s b o u c t o ia w y m 0 0 1 : z ISO CER us no ll f ld l a spe p e ³n N-18 ny prze 3: B cognitio tion of a n of chi ion in re s zo PN owad zepr 14 ciple dit pr .12.20 y³ au re mina abolitio criminat tal starcz 1128 Prin u do 2.20 29.1 e l i e n wod atu: ronm co do he ive rtyfik is 4: t e effect tion of d na i ce envi noœc s wa¿ ciple okre 139 th ch to ; and AC P ina BH Prin iple 5: y zez l i m ro a i l i t ny pr the e p tawioo. b ry ap onsi dly wys c fikat p. z o. acji Prin iple 6: Certy ERT S Certyfik iona resp C . n ISO tor ds caut ntal ally frie yr ek c t D Prin ajwyższej pomzyebli e cji e en p r m t ort a viron ronmen 12 3.20 ironm anie n raz u p p r e n i c³aw , 26.0 eate of env h o Wro uld s m y c b y ć zy te gr i utr cyjn ce m y Env s sho aura cie rest . Ch on romo d diffusi gnię znym esse osią h i wyc ranic irmy jest biuro zag wyso kim s i n t o p n ymu k i asze j F ł, fo teli , ja bów o nB g e s ; i ve s n t a ze: wym n rz ese jo ro rozs7 a len iat me chal take init develop y rz cieiple k Misją ntó w wno kra tom w u ce lien tyn zaró a. mari rod rac m k ding czn eP der ge the d p nku ew aszy wśró a ry wsz ie n h, n n nclu syst wyc lien t za zen u en8iają: c encoura ies. ms, i iu ro j K o starc n y m , ą im b re st d io plew o któ odn ą, d Firm y je uzg n c i p g s f o r Firm Cele m ści w cza si e . Pklien ritó agalńe, 9: foteli, hnolo w za all it jako ślon ym oprz ez: zeb ch iwnc ym ip seł, tec n in uptio potr ącyPr mentu omie okre st p krze tion pozi ie w y je ch rtym e nc alizo wan i prz yszły ale rosn sort y – c o r r nst st a o rup so re c h i zn a ten alny jenie tow agai Cel aktu oko klien logic fizjo rzez i-Cor i zasp ego work fika cję wan ch, pop enty u gę o wy obsł o no użytk ństw a  id wą rop iecze u l d Ant ie p rów s sho ribery. p lekso a n łó w, a lo zp ie kom zerz spo w be zan esse rozs dze ich i wad głe i po nie yc h wpro cy usin on and b  cią yc h nale iow , łpra row osko łośc ntów rzez spó meb li biu tyczn e d ytrzy ma otrze b klie po p ścis łej w 0 : B i y z 1 rt ciple jej dexto a w i p F irm ra stem h, b ad ań oju wo o  sy znyc riałó erg o no mic dnia nie wyn ików ciąg łeg o rozw twa rzan ia, m ate Prinmotywowanie 29 uwzg lę ienie ii wy gi, ści, y IS O ewn olog zało jako orm zap c hn cji g n h te lifika omie ią w  snyc kwa pozi kośc ocze szen ie sokim ia ja anie no w m i, n o w y za n w wca pod nym ząd reso Dialogue with stakeholders Competitors Universities Employees Non-governmental organisations Suppliers Local community Customers Nowy Styl Group Distributors Architects Administration institutions Media Communication channels Internal Open Days “Spinacz” Meetings Training courses Magazine for employees External Website Social Media Meetings Training courses Competitions Mailings for distributors 30 Our responsibility 2 2.1 Dialogue with stakeholders G4G4G4G4Nowy Styl Group takes care in mainand the natural environment. They considered activities that 24 25 26 27 taining good relationships with its concern local communities and employment practices to be the stakeholders. Before writing this report, we compiled a list of least identifiable aspects of our company. This means that we people and groups whose impact on our business activities is have to focus on these areas in the next few years. the most significant, as well as those who are influenced by our economic, environmental and social activities. The way we deal with our stakeholders and the frequency of such contacts will depend on Nowy Styl Group’s current busiWe used a simple tool to choose our key stakeholders, to ness activities. So far we have used standard tools, such as whom we sent our questionnaire form. Architects, distribumeetings, training courses, surveys and workshops. In 2014 tors, employees and representatives of the local community and 2015 we will intensify the dialogue process with stakefilled in the questionnaires. Selected suppliers also answered holders by opening our new Office Furniture Factory, holding the questions. Open Days in all our factories, running a series of training courses in ergonomics, participating in furniture fairs (100% We carefully analysed the research results and used them to Design in London, Designblok in Prague, Orgatec in Cologne) select the subjects to cover in this report. The natural environand by continuing both the Supplier of the Year and the Gold ment and relationships with our customers and suppliers were and Silver Partners programs. the aspects our stakeholders considered the most important to discuss in this report. We will maintain complete and honest relationships with our stakeholders. According to our stakeholders, the most identifiable aspects of our business activities are those connected with customers Our promises: We will facilitate the internal channels of communication with our employees though the “Spinacz” magazine issued three times a year. The stakeholder map was We will improve the dialogue with created according to the our customers through an updated GRI Guidelines. We carefully version of our website, our corporate Up^Stream quarterly, and cyclical analysed the forms of our newsletters informing customers about commitment and our methods our innovations and product changes. of communication with We plan to increase our active presence stakeholders. The choice at events and conferences organised for architects, office facility managers, was determined not only by developers and other groups by at least their influence on our 50% (compared to 2013). This direct contact will ensure a more effective company but also by the and reliable exchange of information impact we have on them. as well as enabling research into Jerzy Krzanowski customers’ needs. Vice President of the Management Board, Investment and Purchasing Director of Nowy Styl Group 31 3 Our employees Our employees 3 DMA: LA The success of our company is attributed to our employees’ courage, determination and qualifications. We know that we would not have become the fourth biggest office furniture manufacturer in Europe without them. Having greater and greater ambitions, we pay particular attention to the development of our most precious capital – people. We organise special training courses for our employees and encourage them to share their knowledge and ideas with others. 35 3.1 Employment G4The aspect of locality can also be seen in the Nowy Styl Group’s employEC6 ment policy. In our registered office in Poland, which is treated as the main site of our company, 100% of the executives have been recruited from the local market, i.e. the Sub-Carpathian region. For our employees, this index was 98,99% in 2012 and 98,97% in 2013. Such indexes are possible thanks to the Nowy Styl Group’s strengthened market position as well as the availability of well-qualified managers in the Sub-Carpathian region. The local activities of our company attracted talented employees who want to develop their skills with us. Nowy Styl Group’s employment structure DMA: G4There is some disproportion between women and men in our comLA12 LA12 pany’s employment structure. It is caused by the manufacturing specification – a vast majority of our employees are directly involved in the production of chairs and furniture. Employment structure according to gender 2012 26% 74% Women Men 2013 26% 74% Women Men Detailed information on page 46 36 Our employees 3 Employment structure according to age 16% 66% 16% 64% 18% 2012 20% 2013 < 30 30 —50 > 50 Detailed information on page 46 Employment structure according to the type of contract 26,49% of all the people employed by Nowy Styl Group are women, while G4-10 74,73% are men. 65,71% of the employees have an indefinite term contract. No less than 98% of all employees have a full-time contract. Employment structure according to the type of contract 2012 35% 65% 99% 1% Indefinite term Definite term Full-time Part-time contract contract contract contract 2013 34% 66% 98% 2% Detailed information on pages 46, 47 37 Employment structure of the managerial staff G4The management board of Nowy Styl Group consists of five men aged beLA12 tween 30–50. In the management board of the Baltic Wood S.A. there are two men and one woman (two people are aged between 30–50, one is over 50). The management board of Nowy Styl GmbH is comprised of five men (four are aged between 30–50, one is over 50), while the Rohde & Grahl GmbH’s board is made up of three men (two are aged between 30–50, one is over 50). Employee turnover according to gender and age G4Nowy Styl Group gives young people an opportunity to get their first job and LA1 offers them stable employment. This company’s policy is clearly reflected in the statistics regarding employment structure according to age. Meanwhile, the data concerning people leaving Nowy Styl Group indicates the process of natural generational shifts. The largest group of people leaving our company consists of the oldest employees, while people aged under 30 make up the biggest group of newly employed workers. Employee turnover according to gender and age New New employees employees 2012 86 2012 253 2013 117 2013 318 Ended Ended contracts contracts 2012 69 2012 270 2013 86 2013 254 Women Men Detailed information on page 46 38 Our employees 3 Return to work and the retention rate after parental leave G4Job security and the proper balance between private and professional life LA3 are very important for our employees. Therefore we do our best to support them within these areas. G4LA3 The number Women Men of employees who took 2012 57 employees 100,00% 0,00% parental leave 2013 68 employees 95,60% 4,60% G4LA3 The number Women Men of employees who 2012 49 employees 100,00% 0,00% returned to work 2013 66 employees 95,50% 4,50% after parental leave G4LA3 The number Women Men of employees who returned 2012 44 employees 97,70% 2,30% to work and were still 2013 63 employees 96,80% 3,20% employed for G4LA3 12 months The retention 2012 0,90 rate 2013 0,95 39 3.2 Wages DMA: G4DMA: G4The wages of Nowy Styl Group’s this rate in our Nowy Styl GmbH and Rohde & Grahl GmbH EC5 EC5 LA13 LA13 employees are determined by their subsidiaries. In both of these companies the basic salary is equal qualifications and the type, amount and quality of work for women and men occupying the same positions. Employees’ they perform. wages are only dependent on professional factors, such as qualifications, education and work experience. There is some disproportion between the wages of male employees working in direct production and those of female In Baltic Wood S.A. and other subsidiaries belonging to Nowy employees in terms of the minimum wage, in favour of men Styl Sp. z o.o. there is some disproportion between female basic (partially resulting from the type of duties and the way they salary and male basic salary. However, nowadays this situation account for them). It needs to be mentioned that the lack of is changing; this is especially visible in the case of production the minimum wage in Germany prevents us from measuring positions (detailed information on page 49). G4Wages of employees occupying lower-level positions in the company EC5 according to gender and in comparison with the minimum wage Nowy Styl 130,32% Sp. z o.o. 147,80% 2012 Baltic Wood 136,22% S.A. 151,51% 100% – minimum wage Nowy Styl 130,32% Sp. z o.o. 145,47% 2013 Baltic Wood 134,30% S.A. 138,66% Women Men Detailed information on page 49 40 Our employees 3 3.3 Education and training courses DMA: G4At Nowy Styl Group special attention is paid to different counties were able to share their sales experience LA9 LA9 the employees’ development. We give our peowith each other); ple a chance to self-develop and improve their professional language courses. skills. We organise training courses not only to have a properly qualified staff, but also to support their personal development. Almost all the training courses are organised by our internal training department. In the case of specialist courses, our That is why we follow the rules of equal and universal access employees take part actively in international conferences as to training courses – to give our employees a possibility to well as product and technology fairs. improve their personal and managerial skills, as well as expand their professional knowledge necessary to occupy particular We treat these development activities as a continuous process positions in the company. The most important categories of that bears fruit only when all its stages are ordered in the training courses organised in 2012 and 2013 were: right way. Therefore, every year, before organising our training all-development courses (e.g. staff management, project courses, we carefully analyse our employees’ needs and compile management, public speaking); our Annual Training Plan. We also pay particular attention to specialist courses (e.g. knowledge concerning production, the choice of methods used to measure the effectiveness of our logistics, quality, trade, finances); activities. In 2013 we implemented the special Training Course sales courses (e.g. trade negotiations, sales techniques); Evaluation Form. At the same time we support employees who product courses; want to improve their skills individually by subsidising their national and international ‘know-how’ workshops (during courses or allowing them to take training leave. which employees from different departments and working in G4LA9 The average number of training hours per one employee Indirect Direct Women Directors Managers Specialists production production Men employees employees Nowy Styl Sp. z o.o. The number of training 2012 6,57 4,80 22,93 23,62 13,49 1,01 0,82 hours per one employee 2013 7,26 5,98 44,72 28,26 14,09 1,59 1,30 Baltic Wood S.A. The number of training 2012 1,84 1,59 14,00 4,18 0,86 0,41 1,52 hours per one employee 2013 4,29 1,82 37,33 17,13 3,36 1,40 0,24 Nowy Styl GmbH The number of training 2012 n/a n/a 8,00 16,00 0,00 11,2 0,00 hours per one employee 2013 n/a n/a 5,00 57,50 40,00 6,00 0,00 Rohde & Grahl GmbH The number of training 2013 41,60 44,80 48,00 32,00 48,00 48,00 27,43 hours per one employee 41 Talent program Suggestion program Education and sound knowledge are definitely not enough. G4Our company’s success is the sum of the successes LA10 Other crucial aspects are talent and skills. Having noticed the achieved by our employees. They have proved many importance of our employees’ “soft skills” development in terms times over that their ideas can facilitate the way our organisaof the positions they occupy in our company, we have decided tion functions. We believe strongly that each of us can come to create a special Talent Program. Within this program we up with an excellent idea – not only a Director or Manager – offer the most talented employees some attractive forms of therefore we attach a lot of weight to the management of personal development, which have a huge influence on their employees’ ideas. Our employees are allowed to put forward satisfaction and job commitment. their suggestions, which in turn provide our company with easy access to the innovative ideas coming from different We started the Talent Program in 2012 and continued it in parts of our organisation. 2013. Its rules were very simple. After a few selection stages we chose a group of employees for whom special development For the time being, there are two huge programs in our comactivities were designed. All the participants of this program pany. The first one, called the Cost Optimisation Program, is possess skills that meet the needs and development plans addressed to white-collar workers. They are given a chance to of the organisation. Moreover, these people are involved in come up with ideas concerning the introduction of improvethe most important projects, very often being of the utmost ments and innovations. In this way we make our employees importance to our company. aware of the great influence they can have on our company. We show them that their commitment is necessary to achieve Skill development program our common success. Our employees are allowed to suggest changes that are, in their opinions, needed and would be of G4Managers and directors are the most important people benefit to the company within logistics, production, technolLA10 in our company; therefore, we have designed a special ogy and construction. This program ensures the innovation skill development program for them. In 2012 and 2013 we development and supports employees’ creativity. carried out a training and development project, within which we held a series of courses for our management staff. They The other program, called the Suggestion Program, is addressed were able to improve their skills concerning communication, to production employees and is currently being tested. Within team management and change management. this program, blue-collar workers are allowed to put forward their suggestions concerning occupational health and safety, People from different divisions of our company – directors, product quality, productivity and cost reduction. This program managers, production managers and masters – took part in aims to develop and support our production employees’ inthese training courses. The managers were divided into two novative ideas. teams: one consisted of those responsible for employees within the production area, while the other consisted of those responsible for employees beyond the production area. This division enabled us to adjust workshops properly to the problems each particular group may encounter, and the type of work they do. Training courses designed in this way ensured free exchange of experience and knowledge sharing between various organisational units. Our promises: We will continue and develop our activities concerning communication, team and change management within the Skill Development Program. 42 Our employees 3 Employee Individual Business Plan Traineeship program G4Nowy Styl Group, just like any other company that G4Besides taking care of our employees’ development, we LA11 EC8 exists in the market, acts according to special strategy also think about our company’s future staff. We cooperand operational plans that are mirrored in the way particular ate with local institutions to organise internships. These enable employees work. By carrying out the “Employee Individual students, graduates and unemployed people to gain their first Business Plan” project, we have moved a step forward. Within professional experience as well as qualifications and skills that the periodic performance assessment, managers do not only will improve their position on the labour market. discuss with employees the results of their work, but also establish their skill development and improvement plans for We organise internships as well as student, graduate and postthe next six months. It helps employees determine the key graduate internships within the following areas: production, abilities they would need to deal with current and future tasks. logistics, quality, finance, marketing, sales and trading, HR. In Moreover, managers set the most important aims to be achieved 2013 we signed an agreement concerning a constant cooperaand duties to be performed together with their employees. tion with Rzeszow University of Technology, Warsaw University All the key development areas and assigned tasks make up of Life Sciences – SGGW and State Higher Vocational School in the “Employee Individual Business Plan”. By the end of 2013, Krosno. We also cooperate with other universities and schools we had implemented this project in the Logistics and Quality located in the counties of Krosno and Jasło, where a great Divisions, and it was applied to all employees, both whiteand number of students start their professional careers. At the blue-collar workers. same time we cooperate with governmental institutions of the labour market to organise internships for people seeking So far the following activities have been taken as a part of employment. this project: individual sales coaching; We guarantee all our trainees access to our knowledge base training courses in trade negotiations for the Domestic Sales and modern solutions. The most talented probationers are ofDepartment and Export Sales Department; fered a job in the department where they had their internship. training course in sales techniques for the Export Sales Department; As a part of the dialogue with our stakeholders, we take part in training course in preparing and conducting presentations local job fairs. Thanks to our participation in these events, we for customers and partners; are able to define needs and expectations of future trainees. know-how workshop that ensured free exchange of experiTalking with students and lecturers, we inform them about ence between employees from the Domestic Sales Department the qualifications and skills we look for. Such conversations and Export Sales Department; have notable effects. sessions during which employees’ survey forms were discussed, resulting in the introduction of new motivating systems in these departments; “Motivating employees” training course for managers. The project will finish with a new periodic performance assessment based on the above-mentioned criteria in order to measure the effectiveness of all the activities undertaken. Our promises: In 2014 we plan to implement the periodic performance assessment in further sales departments, including the Customer Service Department and Project Management Department. 43 3.4 Fringe benefits G4We know that the proper balance between professional corporate life insurance that both our employees and their LA2 and family life is of utmost importance to everyone. families may use. That is why we also try to support our employees in this area. We take special care of our employees’ health, therefore every Every year, as a fringe benefit, we give our employees’ children year we organise flu vaccination days. Thinking about our emSt. Nicholas Day gift packages. During Easter and Christmas ployees’ well-being we have created the “Employee Purchasing all our employees receive cash benefits. Group” program. Together with the Sub-Carpathian Business Club, we give our employees a special discount card that allows Being aware of the different misfortunes that may happen to them to favourably buy products at special distribution points anyone, we offer financial support to our employees who are (shops and service outlets). in a difficult situation. Our company has also negotiated good 3.5 Anti-discrimination practices We are all equal How do we do this? DMA: G4In our company diversity is treated as a great value, We obey the rules inserted in the Universal Declaration of HR3 HR3 which enables all employees to develop their skills. Human Rights and European Convention on Human Rights. Even though we function in various parts of Europe, we are All our employees are given an equal opportunity of profesone big team, in which everyone is important and contributes sional development regardless of their sex, background, faith, to its successes. Our record proves this: over the last few race, sexual orientation, political views, social origins, age or years we have not noted any discrimination in our company. employment type. Our promises: We will create a special post for Ethics Officer in our company to give our employees a chance to report any possible instances of discrimination. The Ethics Officer, as a trustworthy person, will monitor our employees’ compliance with ethical principles and promote ethical attitudes in our company. 3.6 Occupational health and safety DMA: G4G4Every day thousands of people enter our In the Group’s companies there are health and safety commitLA5-8 LA5 LA8 production plants and offices to work with tees with different structures and representatives: passion and pursue our common goals. We try to create relain the subsidiaries located in Poland, the committees contionships based on mutual respect and trust. The safety of our sist of six representatives (three of them are chosen by the employees is the highest priority for us, so we do not accept employees via democratic election, while three represent the any compromises at all. employers); 44 Our employees 3 in our companies located in Germany, the committees consist In 2013 there were five accidents (one woman and four men) of five employees from different divisions. in the Baltic Wood S.A. that resulted in 264 days of absenteeism. In 2013 Nowy Styl Sp. z o.o. recorded 23 accidents Health and safety committees represent all employees of the (two women, 21 men). The total number of absenteeism days Group (there are no trade unions in Nowy Styl Group). The amounted to 1 062. In the Nowy Styl GmbH subsidiary, there committees take care of employees’ safety and help them were four accidents, during which four men and four women when accidents occur. were injured. The following aspects are discussed with the representatives Exposure to danger of employees: making changes in work organisation and workstation equipG4Due to the character of the furniture industry, employees LA7 ment; occupying certain production positions in our company assessing occupational hazards concerning particular tasks are exposed to danger resulting from exceeded threshold limit and informing employees about them; values of work environment factors, such as noise, vibrations, creating health and safety services and appointing employees dust and magnetic field. External institutions measure all these responsible for giving first aid; factors. allotting employees personal protective equipment, work clothes and shoes. Our employees are properly prepared for the tasks they perform while occupying certain positions in the company. We provide Injury and occupational diseases rate them with safe workstations and cyclical training courses – we undertake all these activities with their safety in mind. G4Thanks to special procedures and implemented safety LA6 systems, no instances of fatal or serious accidents have In Baltic Wood S.A. there are some positions exposed to excebeen recorded in our production plants in the last two years. eded threshold limit values (TLV) of work environment factors, Every year a team of our specialists prepares incident analyses such as noise and hard wood dust. In 2012 the total number of that help us draw conclusions and improve our employees’ employees exposed to exceeded TLV amounted to 97 (including safety to an even greater extent. those employees exposed to both noise and hard wood dust). In 2013 we managed to reduce the amount of dust to below In 2012 Baltic Wood S.A. recorded eight accidents (two women, the threshold limit value. The number of positions exposed to six men) that resulted in 478 days of absenteeism. In 2012 exceeded TLV of hard wood was reduced from 12 to 0. there were 16 accidents in the Nowy Styl company, during which 18 employees (four women and 14 men) were injured. In 2012 the total number of employees exposed to exceeded The accidents resulted in 795 days of absenteeism. In the TLV in the Nowy Styl company was 205 (including those emsame year Nowy Styl GmbH noted two accidents, in which ployees exposed to two or more work environment factors). three people (two men and one woman) were hurt. In 2013 the number amounted to 239. In other subsidiaries such positions have not been recorded. 6,70 G4LA6 Accident frequency rate Nowy Styl Sp. z o.o. 9,32 Baltic Wood 28,98 S.A. 16,83 2012 Nowy Styl 2,36 GmbH 2013 6,30 0 10 20 30 40 50 45 3.7 Complete tabular data showing indicators G4LA12 Employment structure of the managerial staff 2012 According to gender According to age Total Women Men <30 30–50 >50 Nowy Styl Sp. z o.o. 660 2019 523 1749 407 2679 Baltic Wood S.A. 98 205 29 237 37 303 Nowy Styl GmbH 49 99 20 72 56 148 Total 807 2323 572 2058 500 3130 2013 According to gender According to age Total Women Men <30 30–50 >50 Nowy Styl Sp. z o.o. 700 2028 570 1778 380 2728 Baltic Wood S.A. 103 227 45 250 35 330 Nowy Styl GmbH 41 86 15 66 46 127 Rohde & Grahl GmbH 66 184 44 119 87 250 Total 910 2525 674 2213 548 3435 G4The total number of employees according to the LA12 employment type, contract type and region (by gender) 2012 Indefinite Definite term Part-time Full-time term contract contract contract contract Women 440 220 7 653 Nowy Styl Sp. z o.o. Men 1257 762 7 2012 Women 71 27 1 97 Baltic Wood S.A. Men 136 69 6 199 Women 43 6 16 33 Nowy Styl GmbH Men 94 5 0 99 Total 2041 1089 37 3093 46 Our employees 3 G4The total number of employees according to the LA12 employment type, contract type and region (by gender) 2013 Indefinite Definite term Part-time Full-time term contract contract contract contract Women 443 257 6 694 Nowy Styl Sp. z o.o. Men 1277 751 6 2022 Women 71 32 1 102 Baltic Wood S.A. Men 137 90 4 223 Women 40 1 13 28 Nowy Styl GmbH Men 85 1 0 86 Women 47 19 17 49 Rohde & Grahl GmbH Men 157 27 5 179 Total 2257 1178 52 3383 G4LA1 New employees 2012 According to gender According to age Total Women Men <30 30–50 >50 Nowy Styl Sp. z o.o. 80 237 154 134 29 317 Baltic Wood S.A. 6 12 2 15 1 18 Nowy Styl GmbH 0 4 0 4 0 4 Total 86 253 156 153 30 339 2013 According to gender According to age Total Women Men <30 30–50 >50 Nowy Styl Sp. z o.o. 98 252 166 171 13 350 Baltic Wood S.A. 14 45 21 37 1 59 Nowy Styl GmbH 1 0 0 1 0 1 Rohde & Grahl GmbH 4 21 9 8 8 25 Total 117 318 196 217 22 435 47 G4LA1 Ended contracts 2012 According to gender According to age Total Women Men <30 30–50 >50 Nowy Styl 58 243 119 142 40 301 Sp. z o.o. Baltic 9 23 5 24 3 32 Wood S.A. Nowy Styl 2 4 1 5 0 6 GmbH Total 69 270 125 171 43 339 2013 According to gender According to age Total Women Men <30 30–50 >50 Nowy Styl 72 203 95 149 31 275 Sp. z o.o. Baltic 4 31 7 22 6 35 Wood S.A. Nowy Styl 2 4 1 5 0 6 GmbH Rohde & Grahl 6 18 6 8 10 24 GmbH Total 86 254 109 184 47 340 48 Our employees 3 G4Wages of the lowest-ranking employees in comparison EC5 with the minimum wage according to gender 2012 2013 Women Men Women Men Nowy Styl 130,32% 147,80% 130,32% 145,47% Sp. z o.o. Baltic 136,22% 151,51% 134,30% 138,66% Wood S.A. G4The ratio of female minimum wage to male minimum wage LA13 according to the position they occupy Nowy Styl Sp. z o.o. Baltic Wood S.A. 2012 2013 2012 2013 Directors 89,30 91,33 74,17 66,42 Managers 86,35 84,74 130,33 120,74 Specialists 90,79 89,35 69,43 71,13 Indirect production 84,40 88,71 75,07 75,17 employees Direct production 88,17 89,58 89,91 96,85 employees 49 4 Our influence on the environment Our influence on the environment 4 We know that we are just neighbours of the natural environment who have appeared recently. We do our best to make our presence the least troublesome possible. We minimise our influence on the environment as well as the impact we make on people’s and animals’ lives. By implementing solutions that help us connect ecology with our manufacturing processes, we do much more than current standards and regulations of law oblige us to do. We just think (eco)logically! Our manufacturing processes take place in production plants audits) providing constant supervision and improvement of that are regulated by administrative decisions issued by special all procedures. We held training courses in identifying and authorities and controlled by external audits. evaluating environmental aspects as well as training courses in internal audits. The following areas were certified: management, As a result of manufacturing processes being in accordance production planning and coordination, designing, production, with environmental protection principles, we have implemented purchase, sales, delivering of furniture and chairs. a special system based on the standards presented in ISO 14001: 2004 “Environmental management systems”. It was The Nowy Styl Group’s environmental management system a few years ago when we started our preparations for the ISO starts at the very first stage of production – at the design 14001:2004 certificate, and we did a lot of preparatory work phase, when particular elements used to make a product are before it was implemented. We described the environmental chosen. Thanks to the policy, all our products, from the beginpolicy of our company, pinpointed the activities undertaken ning to the end of their life cycles, have very little impact on in particular production plants that had had an influence on the natural environment. The next stage is the purchase of the natural environment and defined areas within which pomaterials and production of products in our factories, where tential improvements could have been made. We also created the manufacturing processes are properly chosen so that they a management program ensuring the achievement of common make the smallest possible impact on the natural environment. aims and made out a schedule of regular controls (internal 53 DMA: G4Within the period of time covered in this report, methodology. The plant was imposed an administrative fine EN29 En29 no penalties or sanctions were imposed on Nowy of EUR 1514,42. Styl Group for violating environment protection principles, with the exception of the Timber Manufacturing Plant, where In accordance with the regulation written in ISO 14001 a procedural defect was found in 2012. The Voivodeship EnEnvironmental Management System Book, Baltic Wood S.A. vironmental Protection Inspector did not accept two samples does not inform third parties about the environmental aspects because there were some differences in their measurement the company supervises. 4.1 Energy DMA: DMA: All our business activities are based on the modGroup’s production plants. The funds we received from the EN3 EN6 eration principle that is clearly visible in our reEuropean Union have enabled us to create a waste storing, lationship with the natural environment. We have decided to transporting and grinding system. This enables us to produce use various energy sources and use our creative potential to energy from wood waste which in turn leads to a reduction transform the weaknesses into green solutions. of CO2 emissions. We constantly modernise our production machines, helping Nowy Styl Group has two boiler houses that use wood waste us minimise energy consumption and optimise manufacturing (direct energy consumption) and produce energy that is sold processes. For instance, thanks to the use of sequential lighting, within the subsidiaries. only the areas in our production plants where manufacturing processes actually take place are lit. G4Furniture and chair production is inseparably linked to We recover heat from our production processes that is puriEn6 huge energy consumption that has a great influence fied and used in the winter. both on the natural environment and the expenses the company We implement special procedures. All new employees are must incur. Therefore, we do our utmost to reduce energy trained in the economical management of energy. consumption. The activities we have undertaken over the last few years include easy solutions connected with switching G4The majority of the Nowy Styl Group’s factories do not En3 off production machines and lights during breaks. We have produce their own energy. The production plants are implemented compressed air system servicing to prevent any provided with the amount of energy they need by external possible leaks. We have optimised production lines by consolisuppliers. The Timber Manufacturing Plant in Rzepedź and dating production batches and reducing the time needed for the factory where Baltic Wood S.A. manufactures its parquet retooling. We have also modernised the extraction fan control floors are the exceptions. They use a solid fuel in the form of system. The use of power inverters has helped us greatly rewood biomass to produce energy. The biomass consists of duce energy consumption. We have also managed to reduce small wood waste, such as sawdust and shavings, and big the temperature of moulding parquet floors by introducing wood waste, such as woodchips, edgings and particles. It is special glues for wood that can be used at lower temperatures. produced by the production plants themselves, but it is also purchased from external companies. Baltic Wood S.A. sells its How do we do this? Examples: biomass to Nowy Styl Sp. z o.o., which owns the boiler houses, and then repurchases the heat that is produced. We buy and use so-called rainbow energy (energy from different resources, including renewable). The heat we need for technological purposes, central heating We produce our own energy from biomass by using wood and water heating is produced by our own boiler houses and waste and timber dust as an additional energy source for the sold within the subsidiaries. We know that we are just neighbours of the natural environment who have appeared recently. This consciousness directs our resposible activities. Dariusz Frydrych Member of the Management Board, Operational Director of Nowy Styl Group 54 Our influence on the environment 4 G4EN6 Energy 2012 2013 consumption [kWh] Nowy Styl Sp. z o.o. 21 561 950 21 605 904 Baltic Wood S.A. 12 430 067 13 719 692 Nowy Styl GmbH 324 938 305 302 Rohde & Grahl GmbH n/a 2 575 588 TOTAL 34 316 955 38 206 486 G4EN3 The amount Total consumption [GJ] 2012 2013 of heat produced* Purchase 5 929 6 615 [GJ] [m3] Biomass 212 101 208 096 Coal 1 205 1 723 Fuel oil 307 211 TOTAL 228 644 223 409 Total consumption [m3] 2012 2013 Natural gas 502 850 432 491 * The data concerns heat production in factories located in Poland and applies to both Nowy Styl Sp. z o.o. and Baltic Wood S.A. 55 4.2 Water management DMA: g4Water is the most precious resource on earth, Baltic Wood S.A. uses a rainwater drainpipe as well as EN8 EN8 therefore we feel responsible for every single drop a rainfall and snowmelt discharge point that belongs to the we use in our factories. We have come a long way since the Group. The water needed by Nowy Styl GmbH and Rohde day the very first chair left our production line. We have put & Grahl GmbH is supplied by municipal waterworks. a lot of effort into using water resources in a reasonable way. In our Metal Component Production Plant we use cascade Nowy Styl Group has its own water intake in Rzepedź, where the rinsing. The clear water is used to fill the pot with the smallTimber Manufacturing Plant is located. This factory is equipped est number of pollutants. Between successive stages of the with a pumping station and water treatment station. The water galvanised elements production process, we rinse chair comneeded for technological and living purposes is drawn from ponents in the kettle with the dirtiest water and finish doing the Osława river in 34+800 km (a left-bank tributary of the so in the one with the clearest water. In this way we reduce San). The water for social and technological process purposes the consumption of water supplied by municipal waterworks. in other factories is provided by the Municipal Services Offices in Jasło and Krosno. G4EN8 Total water Nowy Styl Sp. z o.o. 2012 2013 consumption according surface water 58 605,00 64 296,00 to its source [m3] municipal water supplies 57 049,00 57 418,40 Total 115 654,00 121 714,40 Baltic Wood S.A. 2012 2013 surface water — — municipal water supplies 9 654,00 9 913,60 Total 9 654,00 9 913,60 Nowy Styl GmbH 2012 2013 surface water — — municipal water supplies 484,00 482,00 Total 484,00 482,00 Rohde & Grahl GmbH 2012 2013 surface water — — municipal water supplies — 1 195,00 Total — 1 195,00 NOWY STYL GROUP 2012 2013 Total 125 792,00 133 305,00 56 Our influence on the environment 4 4.3 Wastewater volume DMA: g4Since it is not possible to eliminate wastewater Industrial wastewater that is produced only in the Metal CompoEN22 EN22 during manufacturing processes, we do our best nent Production Plant during the process of applying decorative to manage and utilise it in a proper way. Domestic wastewater coatings goes straight to its own industrial sewage treatment that comes from our production plants in Jasło is channelled plant and then to the Jasiółka river. The Timber Manufacturing through public drainage system to the municipal sewage treatPlant located in Rzepedź has also its own domestic sewage ment plant in Jasło. treatment plant. Purified wastewater is channelled to the Osławica river. G4EN22 Wastewater Nowy Styl Sp. z o.o. 2012 2013 volume [m3] Sanitary wastewater discharged to 34 390 27 772 Municipal Services Office systems Sanitary wastewater discharged to the Jasiółka river after the purification 21 656 29 745 processes in a sewage treatment plant Industrial wastewater discharged to the Osławica river after the purification 7 955 5 631 processes in a sewage treatment plant Baltic Wood S.A. 2012 2013 Sanitary wastewater discharged to 3 868 3 477 Municipal Services Office systems Nowy Styl GmbH 2012 2013 Sanitary wastewater discharged to 484 482 Municipal Services Office systems Rohde & Grahl GmbH 2012 2013 Sanitary wastewater discharged to n/a 1 195 Municipal Services Office systems Total 68 353 68 117 57 G4EN21 Emission Nowy Styl Sp. z o.o. 2012 2013 of sulphur dioxides, Nitrogen oxides (NOX) 26 119,10 27 945,90 nitrogen oxides Sulphur dioxides (SO2) 1 172,77 1 797,68 and other Volatile organic compounds significant 35 188,91 38 767,49 (VOCs) compounds into the Dust 35 602,32 36 135,29 atmosphere Carbon monoxide (CO) 21 225,89 36 135,29 [kg] Carbon dioxide (CO2) [Mg] 11 721,87 10 621,22 Baltic Wood S.A. 2012 2013 Nitrogen oxides (NOX) 14 513,70 9 811,14 Sulphur dioxides (SO2) 1 092,12 738,26 Volatile organic compounds 110,11 137,76 4.4 Emissions to air (VOCs) Dust 7 673,58 5 187,28 Being a production company means that our busiDMA: EN21 g4EN21 Carbon monoxide (CO) 12 099,54 8 179,19 ness activities are connected with air pollution emissions. All our production plants have special permissions Carbon dioxide (CO2) [Mg] 8,18 12,10 issued by state authorities to emit gases and dust into the Nowy Styl GmbH 2012 2013 atmosphere. The maximum amount of pollutants emitted to air and the conditions for their emission to the natural environNitrogen oxides (NOX) n/a n/a ment are precisely described in the permissions. An accredited Sulphur dioxides (SO2) n/a n/a laboratory takes emissions measurements once a year. The regulations and law in the area of environmental protection Volatile organic compounds motivate us to self-control and look for the best possible son/a n/a (VOCs) lutions that can help us reduce our influence on the natural environment to even greater extent than we are obliged to. Dust n/a n/a Carbon monoxide (CO) n/a n/a We pay special attention to the ecological safety of the component parts used to manufacture our products. Therefore, Rohde & Grahl GmbH 2012 2013 we periodically test the plywood produced in our factories Nitrogen oxides (NOX) — 525,00 in Rzepedź to control the amount of formaldehyde emitted into the air. Sulphur dioxides (SO2) — 320,00 Volatile organic compounds All our production plants aim at reducing the amount of volatile — 2 434,00 (VOCs) organic compounds emitted into the atmosphere by replacing solvent adhesives with aqueous adhesives and by extending Dust — n/a the use of aqueous coatings. Carbon monoxide (CO) — n/a 58 Our influence on the environment 4 INNOVATIVE SPRAY BOOTH In 2012 special screens for catching and coagulant (water jacket walls) that leads collecting excess Coolac® aqueous coating to varnish waste. To prevent this, special material were installed in the Timber screens collecting the over spray were Manufacturing Plant located in Rzepedź. installed between the booth filter and the This has enabled us to reduce the use elements that are varnished. The excess of varnish by 30%. During the coating coating material flows down the screen processes, some varnish settles on the to a container and after filtering it can be elements, while some creates “paint mist”, reused in the coating processes. This change or over spray. When standard solutions are has allowed us to reduce the amount of applied, the over spray settles on filters varnish, minimise the number of spray booth (dry spray walls) or goes to water with failures and increase their productivity. 4.5 Waste management DMA: g4Sawdust, shavings, snips, timber, chipboard and sawdust, shavings and wood snips are given to people who use EN23 EN23 veneer that are produced during furniture manuthese waste materials in their households as a fuel for their facturing processes create the main group of waste in our central heating systems. factories. There is also leather, leather imitation and fabric waste from chair and armchair upholstery processes. By conNo less than 100% of all the waste materials produced by the necting these waste materials, we produce chairs of a standard factories belonging to Nowy Styl Sp. z o.o. in 2012 and 2013 quality. All other waste materials are handed over to units that were handed over to external companies. have the special permissions required by Polish law. Moreover, G4Nowy Styl Sp. z o.o. 2012 2013 EN23 Waste handed over to external companies n/a n/a Waste according to Recycling within own production plant n/a n/a the method of Total 5 372,81 3 808,28 its recycling [Mg] Baltic Wood S.A. 2012 2013 Waste handed over to external 3 395,37 6 575,68 institutions including: Recycling 3 191,30 6 363,86 Utilisation 204,07 211,82 Total 3 395,37 6 575,68 Nowy Styl GmbH 2012 2013 Total n/a n/a Rohde & Grahl GmbH 2012 2013 Total — n/a 59 PRODUCTION BEING OF BENEFIT TO THE ENVIRONMENT – ECO-FRIENDLY COMPOSITE CHAIRS To take care of our environment, we have and dried wood waste and fabric waste. decided to implement a new technology for Such components are mixed in the right producing composite panels made of postproportion and then glued together with the industrial waste. This technology aims at use of a binding agent. Having prepared the replacing the traditional material-consuming mixture, we put it into the moulds where production of wood-based panels with the moulding process takes place at a high a modern one, based on post-industrial waste temperature. When the process is complete, (wood and fabric waste that is produced in we receive a ready-to-use element. Currently the Nowy Styl Group’s factories). We use we use this method to manufacture a special mould to produce the seats of our 21 models of our chairs. popular upholstered chairs (VENUS, VEGA and FOSCA) in which a ready, properly In 2013 we used 16 tons of waste (including shaped element that does not need cutting fabric waste – 5% and wood waste – 95%) or milling is created. Thanks to this process, to produce these models. Currently we we are able to eliminate additional waste. reuse 600 kg of fabric waste per month in Moreover, the materials used to produce our production plants. This is the amount of composite elements are properly ground waste that does not have to be utilised. THE USE OF RECYCLED PLASTICS Our Plastic Processing Plant located in were cut into small pieces 3–5mm long and Jasło uses regranulate to produce plastic transferred to injection moulding machine elements. It is a material made of ground points. Because this technology was car bumpers, yoghurt cups, margarine associated with huge waste production, we containers, buckets, boxes and many other equipped our extrusion moulding machine materials. Thanks to this process, millions of with a new head in 2012. This has helped plastic containers are not taken to landfill, us eliminate technological waste and where they would be lying for hundreds increase the productivity of the regranulate of years before degrading. The technology production line by 10%, since there is now we used previously required a long no need to stop the machine to replace technological line. First, silos provided us sieves. The quality of granulate remains with the properly prepared material which the same even though the head has been we pushed through the plasticising system. replaced. It still allows us to manufacture The material was placed on filters and then ready-to-use elements without any faults. went to special sieves. After it went through the old head, we received 25 threads Some of the regranulate we produce is sold 3mm thick that we put into a water tank outside, while the rest is used to produce in order to cool them down. Then they black polypropylene elements in our factories. were moved forward with the use of a few The total amount of recycled plastics used in brushes that removed the remains of dump. manufacturing processes amounted to 65,9% At the end of this process, the threads in 2012 and 52,9% in 2013. 60 Our influence on the environment 4 Plastics 2012 2013 consumption [kg] Total material consumption 2 146 292 2 534 037 Production of regranulate 1 545 600 1 387 765 Including this sold outside 131 055 46 700 65,9% 52,9% Regranulate in plastic consumption (%) 2012 2013 Regranulate G4EN23 Waste Nowy Styl Sp. z o.o. 2012 2013 according Hazardous waste 1 557,74 490,45 to its type [Mg] Non-hazardous waste 3 815,07 3 317,83 total 5 372,81 3 808,28 Baltic Wood S.A. 2012 2013 Hazardous waste 35,06 46,20 Non-hazardous waste 3 360,32 6 529,48 total 3 395,37 6 575,68 Nowy Styl GmbH 2012 2013 Hazardous waste n/a n/a Non-hazardous waste n/a n/a total n/a n/a Rohde & Grahl GmbH 2012 2013 Hazardous waste — 18,57 Non-hazardous waste — 153,56 total — 172,13 61 4.6 Total expenses and investments in environmental protection DMA: EN31 g4EN31 Being a production company, we aim to reduce, The sustainable control and record our influence on the natural environment, as well as minimise the risk resulting from our development of Nowy Styl business activities. This is inseparably connected with the Group is our aim. We do our expenses we incur. In both 2012 and 2013 we spent approximately EUR 0,25m on environmental protection. utmost to make sure that all our business activities have As we have mentioned in this report, active involvement in the protection of the natural environment is one of our priorities. as little impact as possible Within the Group we have created special teams responsible on the natural environment for monitoring and coordinating activities concerning this area. and our surroundings. How do we do this? Jerzy Krzanowski Vice President of the Management Board, Investment and Purchasing To increase our commitment to environmental protection we Director of Nowy Styl Group constantly invest in current monitoring (both internal and external), training courses and the development of eco-friendly technologies. The data presented below concerns only Polish subsidiaries, where it is gathered for ISO 14001 certificate purposes. G4En31 Total Nowy Styl Group* 2012 2013 environmental protection EUR** PLN EUR** PLN expenditures Certification audits 16 189,43 67 568,20 15 805,44 66 556,70 and investments according to Environmental fee 34 909,11 145 696,65 36 838,88 155 128,53 their type [EUR**/PLN] Waste disposal 178 177,35 743 641,00 164 379,29 692 201,20 Emission measurement + report concerning 4 264,90 17 800,00 3 476,61 14 640,00 emission standards Noise emission 1 150,09 4 800,00 — — measurement Water and wastewater 1 835,11 7 659,00 2 160,77 9 099,00 measurement * Data concerning the Nowy Styl Maintenance costs 3 739,79 15 608,38 1 730,59 7 287,53 Sp. z o.o. and Baltic Wood S.A. Training courses 1 030,29 4 300,00 379,96 1 600,00 companies. ** Annual average Decision issues 1 353,75 5 650,00 4 297,91 18 098,50 exchange rate used in this report: total 242 649,81 1 012 723,23 229 069,45 964 611,46 2012 – EUR 4,1736, 2013 – EUR 4,2110 62 Our influence on the environment 4 4.7 Transport DMA: g4Being one of the leading furniture and chair The Nowy Styl Group’s transport policy aims to reduce the EN30 EN30 manufacturers in Europe, we organise hundreds amount of space needed for delivering products and eliminatof thousands of product deliveries to our customers all over ing empty runs. By manufacturing the majority of component the world. We know that we are able to reduce our carbon units in our factories, we optimise transport, and in this way we footprint with good logistics and optimal distribution systems. minimise our negative influence on the natural environment. Nowy Styl Group furniture is packed into flat boxes, which help Our transport fleet consists of 101 motorcars and six lorries. to reduce the space needed for delivering. The production and The lorries we use for intercompany transport meet the Eurodistribution policy of the Rohde & Grahl company is focused pean emission standards (EURO 1 – EURO 4). To deliver our on economising chair transport by using special containers products to customers, we use an external car fleet. with a double bottom and delivering products packed only in plastic bags. While distributing our products, we cooperate with experienced logistics partners, such as: Schenker, Raben, DHL, FedEx, GLS, TNT, Dascher, Heppner and LKW WALTER. Our total storage area in 13 locations in Europe covers over G4EN30 55 000 m2. We plan our deliveries so that all the products ordered by a few customers are transported together over long Nowy Styl distances to our warehouse, from which they are distributed sp. z o.o. 2012 2013 to customers and delivered to their final destination. transport Diesel fuel 249,33 251,29 fleet fuel consumption Petrol 16,73 22,08 [Mg] LP gas 68,31 66,12 Our promises: We will minimise our impact on the environment by: implementing the “BDF-PL” project across the whole Group; it means that we will start distributing our products packed only in plastic bags; transporting our chairs in special double-bottom containers that will allow us to make the best use of the transport space; using the L-shape packaging method that will enable us to transport our products partly assembled; compared to the distribution of completely assembled products, this means we will be able to deliver twice as many chairs as before. 63 5 Our suppliers Our suppliers 5 Managing the supply chain is definitely one of the most difficult areas of business activity of every company. The longer the chain is, the more potential reasons it has to break. The supply chain does not only include the suppliers of materials we need for production processes; it also includes organisation, production planning, technological processes, internal transport and logistics. Following the precautionary principle, we do our transport of the final product to our customer. Diversification G4-12 G4-14 best to prevent the supply chain from breaking of transport types and haulage contractors is the solution we by standardising our products and creating an alternative apply within the supply logistics. Cooperation with only one technology base. The Nowy Styl Group’s production technolohaulage contractor is connected with a risk of losing production gies are similar to those in the production plants located in flow. By creating a base of haulage contractors and working other countries (Germany, Ukraine, Russia). Because of this, in close cooperation with them, we have a sense of security if we are in a critical situation we can easily transfer producand flexibility. We know from our personal experience that the tion to other locations and greatly minimise the risk of losing more cohesive the supply chain is, the easier it is to monitor production flow. Yet another activity that minimises such risk and react in the event of any critical situation. According to is the standardisation of products through a close cooperation our principle “We think globally – act locally”, we try to obtain between R&D departments in the Group. materials for our manufacturing processes from the local market. However, as it is clearly visible in the case of exotic wood A close collaboration with our suppliers is another alternative used to produce our parquet floor, this is not always possible. to our own production. What does this mean? Despite having When we cannot obtain the material we need from the local the technology in our factories, we often decide to transfer market, or when its amount is insufficient, we have to continue some production to our suppliers. In this way we protect our looking for it somewhere else. Because there is a growing company against risk in case of a critical situation, or manufacdemand for materials, we are forced to seek suppliers abroad. turing process failures. The last link of the supply chain is the 67 G4EC9 The proportion of spending on local suppliers 10% 90% 13% 87% 2012 2013 Local suppliers Foreign suppliers G4We use the term “local market” to describe the market assessment is completed annually and it concerns the 12 EC9 of a country where our factories are located. More than months of the previous year. We assess only our key suppli66% of the Nowy Styl Group’s direct suppliers – that supply ers who differ from each other in terms of the industries and the Group with materials and intermediate products – are local businesses they deal with. suppliers. 93% of indirect suppliers – that provide the company with all other products and services – are local suppliers. Another significant element of our supply chain is the convertibility of suppliers and component standardisation. Purchasing DMA: G4DMA: G4Good relationships and close colmaterials only from one supplier without having other alternaLA14 LA14 EN32 EN32 laboration are the crucial aspects of tives is connected with great risk. Therefore, we have been cooperating with suppliers. Logistics annexes that describe looking for alternatives to our suppliers and functional comsupply parameters, safety stock, response time in the case of ponent substitutes for years. To achieve this, we have worked disruptions in the delivery process (supply breaking, quality out a new purchasing strategy and redefined the role of our problems, etc.) are an inseparable part of our contracts. The purchasing department, which consists of people responsible process of compiling such documents together enables us to for cooperation with suppliers, and who know the character understand each other’s needs and ensure flexibility within and requirements of the supply chain. We have also created the cooperation period. All our key suppliers are meticulously a Supplier Development Department, with employees who are assessed in terms of their environmental impact as well as focused on cooperating with suppliers within the following occupational health and safety. areas: production quality improvement, flexibility and required manufacturing capacities. We cooperate with more than a thousand reliable suppliers whose product and service quality has been proven. Having It is easy to conclude from this that we treat suppliers as a key such an extensive network of suppliers would not be possible element of the whole supply chain. The variety of components without the implementation of purchasing processes. The and materials being purchased, location, the method of deNowy Styl Group’s purchasing process is in accordance with livery, stock, financial liquidity and, on the other hand, close a purchasing procedure being a part of an integrated quality cooperation and good relationships with our suppliers, are the assurance system based on the ISO 9001:2008 standards. most important market challenges we will have to address in The procedure describes the way potential suppliers should the next few years. be chosen, approved and periodically assessed. The supplier 68 Our suppliers 5 Our choice of recipients of the “Supplier of the Year” title depends on many factors. On one hand, we take into account suppliers’ international outreach, global know-how and comprehensiveness, and on the other hand their openness, understanding approach towards our needs and introduction of new, flexible solutions. Our customers’ satisfaction makes us sure that the suppliers we cooperate with are fully committed to providing Supplier of the Year services in a professional way. We are happy and proud that we can cooperate with the best. Maria Lasek To maintain and appreciate such relationships, we award the Purchasing Director of Nowy Styl Group “Supplier of the Year” title to our best business partners. While choosing the laureates of our competition we take into consideration no fewer than 15 different criteria, including: effectiveness, time and manner of response, economic conditions, partner relationship, on-time delivery, reliability, flexible approach, introduction of new solutions, stable position on the Our promises: market, certified quality systems. We will compile and implement the Code In 2013 the “Supplier of the Year” title was won by: of Conduct for all suppliers cooperating Donati SPA – the producer of mechanisms, chair bases and with Nowy Styl Group. It will redefine components; the basic requirements concerning the Mentor S.A – the insurance broker; following areas: environmental protection, Pfleiderer – the producer of wood-based materials, the supworking conditions, employment plier of furniture boards, HPL laminates and artificial plasters. practices, adherence to human rights and social influence. 69 6 Our customers Our customers 6 For us, a customer is not a source of income. A customer is a person who has trusted us and accepted our promises. We know that our relationships with customers require a great deal of maturity and responsibility. In this report we have presented many examples of our responwe develop our skills in product packaging and logistic sersible attitude. All our business activities have an influence on vices; the good relationships with our customers: we also test the comprehensibility of our manuals and warwhile designing new furniture and chairs we think about ranty documents. our customers, about their needs that we wish to meet. It is their expectations that underlie the solutions we implement; The customer is at the centre of all our business activities. when choosing materials, we take into consideration not Therefore, this whole report can be treated as a collection of only their economic efficiency but also their durability and benefits we offer our customers at every single stage. eco-friendly properties to maximise the comfort of our products’ users; The facts presented on the following pages illustrate all our at the production stage we pay special attention to the qualbusiness activities that are addressed specifically to our cusity control of our products; tomers. 73 6.1 Ergonomics DMA: We not only offer our customers ergonomic products by distributors who employ sales specialists; they also play PR with patented mechanisms that ensure a healthy worka crucial role in promoting health-oriented solutions. station, but also undertake a lot of activities to educate them in ergonomics. For many years our sales partners have been trained in ergonomic solutions. During training courses we not only show Since 2012 we have been running a specialist Ergo-Zone them the ways particular systems function but also draw portal ( www.strefaergonomii.pl ), where we familiarise our their attention to the necessity of sharing information with customers with the concept of ergonomics. We show them the customers concerning the rules of the ergonomic organisation practical aspects of scientific papers concerning the proper use of a workstation. of the items we are surrounded by, both in our professional and private lives. In addition to basic information, the portal We organise our training courses based on the Experimental provides our customers with instructions on how to adjust the Learning Model by Kolb that ensures both knowledge acquiparameters of our chairs and desks to their needs. Additionally, sition and skills development. Our ambassadors who meet Ergo-Zone offers interesting interviews with ergonomists and face to face with the customers should not only share the instructional videos. most important information with them; they also ought to be successful in encouraging them to take care of their health in Sound knowledge of ergonomics is required to create furniture both their professional and private lives. We intend to make solutions and design chairs that support spine health. We all our efforts bear fruit. We want our customers to choose the strongly believe that we should not just keep this knowledge to products we offer consciously and use them in a proper way. ourselves and create the best product solutions, but also share it with others so that our customers can improve their skills in We do not allow manipulation in our offer. Our relationships this area. We hope that the Ergo-Zone portal and understandwith our customers are based on knowledge: we would like able information that can be found there help our customers them to make a decision in a conscious way. We do our best take care of their health and physical condition on their own. to assure our customers that they have made a good choice in buying our products. We share the knowledge we possess not only with our customers in a direct way, but also indirectly with those who are in close contact with them. Some of our products are launched 74 Our customers 6 6.2 Product labelling DMA: g4Openness and transparency are the key values Because the ways of selling our products are dependent on PR3 PR3 we remain faithful to at every single stage of our the brand and market, they significantly differ from each other. relationships with customers. We try to make our customers Therefore, there are special procedures we have to follow. aware of what they are buying when they choose our products. In the case of the products manufactured by the Nowy Styl That is why we spend a lot of time determining the best way Group’s subsidiaries located in Poland, there are codified proceto label and describe our products. dures whose implementation is cyclically controlled by audits. When it comes to our German companies, there are unwritten Product labelling is a very complex concept. All the labels and rules that are an integral part of training courses for employees, information attached to a product, which is also available on and are obeyed by everyone without exception. our websites, contain many important details, such as: customer’s data; g4All our products are also controlled by the Trading PR4 information about the order; Standards Association. In 2013 four incidents of noninformation about us, i.e. about the producer; compliance with regulations and rules of voluntary codes information about the product (its finishes, mechanisms, concerning labelling and product information were registered. components); They were connected with safety and the proper labelling of information about the environmental standards. Nowy Styl chairs designed for children and teenagers. In all these cases no legal intervention was needed; there was only We offer individual customers a number of delivery options. an internal legal opinion compiled by a law firm for employees We not only deliver furniture and chairs but also often carry of the Nowy Styl brand. All the inaccuracies were immediately out the assembly. We also deliver products for the fulfilment dealt with and the missing labelling was completed. No similar of huge projects. violation of rules has been recorded for any of the other brands. These are only selected instances of situations when we have to adjust the information on the labels attached to our products. Product labelling is necessary for the product to: be delivered on time to its final destination; be assembled in a proper way; be used for what it has been intended (taking into consideration all the possibilities offered by its mechanisms and components); Our promises: be safe for the user’s health both during the assembly process and the product’s usage; We will systematise all the information be assessed in terms of its eco-friendly properties (takon our products by: ing into account the materials it has been made of and their gathering declarations from our recyclability); suppliers concerning the materials be fixed or replaced (the whole product or only some parts that have been used to produce of it) according to the warranty conditions. components and structural elements; unifying the product labelling system There are the following forms of product labelling: in terms of the form and content; sticky labels on transit packaging; providing our customers with sticky labels on the product components (e.g. below the an easy access to warranty conditions; chair seat); preparing an Environmental Product manuals placed in the packaging or available on our website; Declaration for new implementations waybills; (starting from 2014) and for selected product data sheets. product lines sold in the design channel. 75 6.3 Customer health and safety DMA: G4G4We follow the regulations concerning cusThe parquet floors offered by the Baltic Wood brand have nuPR1-2 PR1 PR2 tomer health and safety at every stage of merous certificates issued by the Wood Technology Institute our product manufacturing process. We start at the design in Poznań, the Wood Technology Institute in Dresden and the stage, when we pay special attention not only to safe use of Building Information Foundation RTS in Helsinki. our product but also to the improvement of its user’s health. We do this by applying ergonomic solutions as well as by As previously mentioned, we pay special attention to the sachoosing materials and components that are in accordance fety of the components that make up our products. Therefore: with environmental standards. When producing our prodwe periodically test the plywood produced by our factories in ucts and preparing manuals, product labels and warranty Rzepedź to control the amount of formaldehyde emitted to air; conditions, we take the same things into consideration. we obtain special furniture board certificates from the external suppliers; We want our efforts to be certified by the most demanding we try to eliminate the emissions from adhesives; standards. Therefore our products are tested by us and by the we increase the amount of aqueous coatings we use; most reliable institutions. All Nowy Styl and BN Office Solution the foam used in the seats and backrests of our chairs and products that we launch are tested in our own laboratory, paying sofas does not contain freon gases (CFC and HCFC), heavy special attention to their users’ safety and their compliance metals or bromine substances; with European durability requirements. the plastic elements produced in our factories are properly labelled for future recycling (according to ISO 11469), and the The vast majority of tests our products undergo in our own plastic is BPA and phthalate-free; laboratory are confirmed by seals of approval (test reports) our suppliers provide us with special statements in which issued by external testing authorities and certificates, incluthey assure us that their materials contain neither halogenated ding: German quality mark GeprüfteSicherheit (GS), French flame retardants nor dyes with heavy metals (Pb, SN, Cd, Hg), certificate Office Excellence, Polish certificate of compliance and we are also given information about their recyclability. issued by an accredited research centre Cobrabid. In addition, selected products are tested by external testing centres. The following furniture systems have hygienic approvals: Easy Space, SQart, Primo Space and Flib. This means that they meet the requirements necessary for them to be used in office Customer safety areas and public spaces. Moreover, the Easy Space and SQart furniture systems have economic assessment protocols issued is our absolute by the Nofer Institute of Occupational Medicine. priority. All Grammer Office products have the GS quality mark issued by LGA or TÜV Rheinland, Quality Office Certificate (issued by Q. FORUM), LGA anti-static certificates for a special upholstery (according to EN 61340-5-1) and LGA certificates concerning toxic emissions. Some products have also the LGA ergonomics Our concern for customers, their needs, comfort and safety approved certificate. while using our products is reflected in the way we approach the aspect of warranty. All Rohde & Grahl products have the GS quality mark issued by TÜV. Moreover, the majority of them have the ergonomics All our products have at least a two-year warranty. In the approved certificate according to NPR 1813 or PPP 51051A case of swivel chairs, they have a warranty of three years, or PPP 51038B (issued by TÜV). and there is a four-year warranty on the lift. We also provide products that have a five-year warranty. We attach the writForum Seating products have been designed in accordance with ten warranty conditions to our products, and they are also the strict standards concerning durability and product safe available on our websites. use. Sports stands meet the domestic market requirements – they have a hygienic approval, economic assessment protocol and the GS quality mark. They also meet the rigorous design market requirements concerning acoustics and reaction to fire. 76 Our customers 6 Our promises: We will promote innovative solutions within the following areas: acoustics concerning resistance and absorption – we will develop the skills of our project team and start cooperating with special academia; low-emission technologies – we will select products and test their emission performance in accordance with the Indoor Air Quality certificate; ergonomics (patented Glide-tec mechanism, chairs with duo-back system, S-MOVE system ensuring biodynamic sitting, furniture with a wide range of adjustment options, chairs designed for people with untypical disorders). We will increase the number of products certified by accredited institutions (TÜV – German GS, FCBA – French Office Excellence, certificate of compliance issued by Polish Centre for Accreditation – COBRABiD-BBC Testing and Certification Office Co. Ltd.). 77 6.4 Marketing communications DMA: g4When communicating with our customers, we Customer Privacy PR7 PR7 make a clear distinction between the messages of a brand advertising nature and those of a commercial naDMA: g4Honesty is the value we always remain faithful PR8 PR8 ture. We try to build a true relationship with our customers to, both in our relationships with customers and by familiarising them with the history of our company, its in all our business activities. Contact with recipients of our values and the activities we undertake, and by doing this in products is crucial for us; therefore we maintain it with an a transparent way. The presentation of our company on the individual approach to each customer, and the high quality Internet best shows this attitude: of the products we offer and the services we provide. We do the Group’s website is used to convey messages concernnot buy contacts – we form relationships. Our partners and ing our business activities, new projects, initiatives and our customers always decide to stay in touch with us voluntarily employees’ achievements; it also contains information about and consciously. our products of a non-commercial nature; the Nowy Styl brand’s website is addressed to the endOur customer databases are based on trade contracts. They customer, therefore it comprises primarily product information are created during meetings with our customers and partand other information of various types that supports customers ners as well as during events we organise for them. All the in choosing the product that meets their needs; databases we use on a daily basis are stored on secured servwe also run the Partner Portal for our partners who disers according to GIODO (Inspector General for Personal Data tribute Nowy Styl products – they treat this as a tool to make Protection) requirements. They are not available to any third a purchase or an order, to find details of our offers and to get parties. We do not apply any illegal solutions to follow our to know the product features; customers’ activities or to obtain information about them. we also have different websites designed for our product brands that support our sales activities. In 2012 and 2013 no complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data were recorded. We create a wide range of sales-supporting materials that enable our customers to make the right choice, such as catalogues featuring all our products, catalogues dedicated to a particular product and pricelists. We do our best to take equal care of the positive image of our company, its comprehensible offer and easy access to all the information our customers need. Thanks to Nowy Styl Group’s policy, no incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship, resulting in a warning, fine or penalty were recorded in 2012 or 2013. Magdalena Tokarczyk-Cyran Marketing Director of Nowy Styl Group 78 Our customers 6 79 6.5 Customer satisfaction survey DMA: g4Nowy Styl Group has an extended sales structure distributors and markets, every year we only select distributors PR5 PR5 that is divided into different countries and product from our key markets when we conduct the satisfaction survey. brands – this also shapes the sales strategy. Since only direct contact with customers ensures reliable inIn every single case, our business success in a particular marformation about their needs and preferences, we value this the ket is determined by our customers. That is why getting to most. That is why employees from our marketing department know customers’ opinions on our company and the products conduct personal or telephone survey interviews. Every two to and services we offer is a key action for us. One group of our four years we try to repeat our survey among the same group product recipients is our distributors; for some time we have of respondents. Within this period of time, we make changes been cyclically measuring satisfaction of our business partners suggested by the people surveyed concerning customer service both in Poland and abroad. Due to our extended network of and new products. The summary of customer satisfaction survey conducted in 2012-2013: JAN–APR 2013 we carried out a satisfaction survey among assessment of the cooperation with the Group’s representa93 selected distributors of Nowy Styl products from across tives responsible for business partner service (local representaPoland. The business partners we surveyed were chosen actives and sales specialists); cording to biggest turnover in 2012. assessment of activities and the marketing support; research into our business partners’ needs concerning trainThe main aim of this survey was to find out which activities ing courses. undertaken by the Group are commended by the distributors and which should be abandoned. The survey also aimed to The survey results showed us not only our distributors’ satisfacpoint us in the direction of further development in this area. tion, but also helped us continue the good practices presented below. The survey pinpointed the areas in which the Group The survey questions covered the following subjects: could improve the quality of services and increase distribuassessment of the Nowy Styl Group’s offer in relation to our tors’ satisfaction even more. Having gathered the results, we competitors and the market needs; drew conclusions and prepared a plan of further activities our assessment of the cooperation with the Group (e.g. complaint company should undertake. investigation, on-time delivery, product quality); Strengths of the Nowy Styl brand Weaknesses of the Nowy Styl brand according to the people surveyed according to the people surveyed 19% 47% 24% comprehensive limited access to printed 2013 2013 product offer marketing materials high product high product prices quality attractive on-time delivery product prices 29% 17% 12% 80 Our customers 6 APR–JUN 2013 we carried out a satisfaction survey among 19 The surveyed stressed the low recognisability of the Nowy Styl selected distributors of Nowy Styl Group products from across Group brand on the French market. Respondents defined the France. The business partners we surveyed were chosen acneed to undertake advertising activities and implement the cording to biggest turnover in 2012, and proportionally from OCE and ISO certificates. At the same time they highlighted the retail and professional sectors. high product quality and a very positive relationship between product price and quality. The main aim of this survey was to get to know the distributors’ opinions on the strengths and weaknesses of the Nowy SEP–OCT 2012 we carried out a satisfaction survey among Styl Group’s offer in comparison with our key competitors on 24 selected distributors of Baltic Wood products from across the French market. The survey was also supposed to define Poland. The business partners we surveyed were chosen acthe product needs of our distributors’ end-customers. cording to biggest turnover in 2011. The survey questions covered the following subjects: The survey questions covered the following subjects: assessment of the Nowy Styl Group’s offer in relation to our assessment of the new Baltic Wood product offer; competitors and the market needs; assessment of new materials and marketing tools; perception of the Group’s offer on the French market (a Polish assessment of the delivery, service and product quality as supplier on the French market); well as the speed of assembly of parquet floors; the customers’ preferences concerning design, price and the the need for further extension of the offer. quality of our office furniture and chairs. The majority of the distributors’ comments concerned marketing materials. The people surveyed suggested some changes that should be made. As a result of this survey, the offer has been complemented by a solid plank. Our promises: In 2015 we plan to conduct a customer satisfaction survey on the export market in order to get to know opinions on the Group’s activities and find out the directions of our further development. 81 7 Our neighbours Our neighbours 7 All global successes and achievements have their beginning at a certain time and place and within a particular reality. We are fully aware of our origins, therefore the motto we have been following for years is “We think globally – act locally”. DMA: DMA: This is the motto we have applied to our windows are still closest to our hearts. This is why we invest in SO1 EC7-8 foreign markets and all other places where the development of this region and its inhabitants. We help and G4G4G4our sales departments, showrooms and prosupport them in difficult situations and celebrate our common SO1 EC7 EC8 duction plants can be found. Our subsidiaries successes together. The Nowy Styl company – one of the four have become local enterprises employing local staff and folcompanies that feature in this report – only undertakes activilowing local customs and unwritten rules. ties addressed to the local community in the Sub-Carpathian region. We strongly believe that every single one-zloty coin We treat Poland and the Sub-Carpathian region, where the spent in this region is a good investment in our shared future. main site of our company is located and where a lot of our Just like the Nowy Styl Group’s sustainable development policy, business activities take place, in a special way. Since the very all of our activities concerning the local community are based beginning, Nowy Styl Group and its leadership have been on three pillars. We support children’s education by awarding paying particular attention to the development of the Subscholarships and we organise internships for students. We Carpathian region where we come from. It was there where promote sport by giving local children and teenagers a chance we started our business – a small firm based in Krosno. Even to integrate. Moreover, together with the Magura National Park though today our branches can be found all over the world, we educate people in environmental protection. the surroundings our first employees saw through their office 85 Nowy Styl Sp. z o.o. 2012 2013 G4EC7 EUR* PLN EUR* PLN Costs involved The price of gifts 3 964,21 16 545,01 2 367,99 9 971,60 in the Financial support organisation 14 711,52 61 400,00 17 549,28 73 900,00 provided to institutions of a charity ball Costs of the charity ball 27 859,64 116 275,00 23 400,09 98 537,79 [EUR*/PLN] organisation Total 46 533,37 194 220,01 43 317,36 182 409,39 The scope of our local activities is not limited only to the deinstitutions to find out what they most care about. Because velopment of the local labour market, on which our company of this, we are able to offer the right help that meets the real as one of the biggest employers in the region has a great needs of each institution. Since 2012 Nowy Styl Group has influence. We also cooperate with the local community and also been cooperating with the Magura National Park, one of support various citizens’ initiatives concerning education, the most beautiful conservation areas in the Sub-Carpathian culture and sport. region. We know and value this place, therefore we have decided to familiarise others with the “Magura” region using our Every year in January we organise New Year balls for children position on the market. Our aim is to promote the responsible from the Sub-Carpathian educational care centres. We invited tourism. We provided financial support to the National Park 150 children to the first ball, and this grew – in 2013 more than by selling a special edition of chairs from the Sedia Natura line: 1000 children, including 250 disabled people, took part in this 5% of each chair’s price was allocated to the park, which is unique event. Such events give children a chance to have great situated in the heart of the Low Beskids on the boundary of fun as well as to learn and integrate with each other. Every the East and West Carpathians. Additionally, every year we year we prepare lots of attractions and hundreds of gifts that support all the events organised by the leaders of the Magura we give to the children we invite. All educational care facilities National Park by endowing prizes given to the participants of that take part in our New Year balls inform us in advance of different competitions, for example the “Przyrodnik na medal” the equipment and funds for rehabilitation camps or renovatrail running competition. These prizes are connected with our tion works they need. We talk directly to the leaders of these 86 Our neighbours 7 Our promises: In the incoming years we will increase the engagement in the local society aiming at supporting the education programmes. * Annual average exchange rate used in this report: 2012 – EUR 4,1736, 2013 – EUR 4,2110 company – they are chairs from the Sedia Natura line, featuring scholarships. The amount of financial support provided to the pictures of animals being protected. Foundation in 2012 amounted to EUR 44 326, while in 2013 the company allocated EUR 42 983 to the organisation for its We also support sport – since 2007 we have been regularly statutory purposes. subsidising the Association of the Krosno Development Sport. The financial support we provided to this organisation in 2012 We do our best to help those in need by engaging our emand 2013 amounted to EUR 23 854; EUR 11 980 in 2012 ployees in important projects, such as the “Noble Box” project. and EUR 11 874 in 2013. Sport is particularly important to us We provide local institutions that need new equipment with since we treat it as a great opportunity to mobilise and inteour furniture and chairs. In 2012 we furnished institutions that grate children and teenagers who live in the regions in which asked us for help with more than a dozen chairs and pieces of our company operates. The investment in young people, their furniture. In 2013 we distributed almost 50 products and we personal development and the development of their skills is continue to increase this number to support local institutions. a priority both for the whole company and its owners – brothers Adam and Jerzy Krzanowski. In 2002 they established the In total, we spent over EUR 125 791 in 2012 and EUR 101 164 Janusz Korczak Foundation, reflecting their willingness to share in 2013 on investments in the local communities. Our aim is the success of their company with the local community. Nowy to define the needs of the local community in a more precise Styl Group supports the Foundation, which helps young people way by promoting the direct contact with our beneficiaries. extend their knowledge and develop their skills by awarding 87 8 About the report About the report 8 This document is the first Sustainable Development Report compiled by Nowy Styl Group. It contains the overall data concerning the financial year that covers the calendar years 2012 and 2013. Our Sustainable Development Report is to be published biennially. The report has been prepared in acLocal community, Violation of free competition principles, g4-18 g4-19 g4-20 g4-21 cordance with the basic option (Core) Compliance with regulations, Complaints concerning social influof the newest version of Global Reportence, Customer health and safety, Marketing communication, g4-28 g4-30 g4-31 g4-33 ing Initiative G4 (GRI G4) Guidelines. Compliance with regulations. Indicators of lower importance: This option includes the most important elements of the SusAnti-corruption policy, Violation of free competition principles, tainable Development Report and ensures the proper way of Compliance with regulations, Supplier assessment concerning presenting the activities the company undertakes within the social influence, Complaints concerning social influence, Product following areas: economy, environmental protection, society and service labelling, Customer privacy. and management effectiveness. This report has been verified by an independent auditor (Deloitte Advisory Sp. z o.o.). The Since our company is constantly developing and acquiring financial data presented in the report have been taken from new subsidiaries, we have not always been able to present our financial reports audited by independent expert auditors the overall data for the whole Group. Therefore, in some parts (PwC Sp. z o.o.). of the report we have shown data concerning only selected companies. We aim to gather the overall information in the This Sustainable Development Report crowns several months of next few years. Our intention is also to unify the data between hard work and effort made by a lot of people. It is also the result different subsidiaries so that our next Sustainable Development of a dialogue with our stakeholders. The indicators in this docuReport will be of even greater value to our stakeholders. ment have been chosen according to our customers’, employees’ and suppliers’ expectations, as well as the competitor analysis Contact: and the Nowy Styl Group’s policy. As a production company we have focused mostly on the comprehensive presentation of the Barbara Kokoszka-Bugla environmental indicators. The following indicators have been Marketing & CSR Manager classified as the most crucial ones: Indirect economic impact, +48 510 005 502 Ordering procedures, Energy, Water, Emissions, Effluents and barbara.kokoszka@nowystylgroup.com Waste, Products and services, Compliance with regulations, Transport, Overall (environmental protection expenditures and Przemysław Różowicz investments), Supplier evaluation, Employment, Occupational Marketing & CSR Manager health and safety, Education and training courses, Diversity +48 510 005 424 and equal opportunity, Equal remuneration for women and przemyslaw.rozowicz@nowystylgroup.com men, Supplier assessment concerning employment practices, 91 92 About the report 8 8.1 Verification of the report 93 8.2 GRI Content Index Indicator Indicator name Pages number Strategy and analysis Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organisation (such as G4-1 CEO, chair, or equivalent senior position) about the relevance of sustainability to 3 the organisation and the organisation’s strategy for addressing sustainability G4-2 Description of key impacts, opportunities and risks 3 Organisational Profile G4-3 Name of the organisation 9 G4-4 Primary brands, products, and services 12–13 G4-5 Location of the organisation’s headquarters 100 Number of countries where the organisation operates, and names of countries G4-6 where either the organisation has significant operations or that are specifically 10–11 relevant to the sustainability topics covered in the report G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form 17 Markets served including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of G4-8 10–11 customers and beneficiaries G4-9 Scale of the organisation 10–11 G4-10 Total number of employees by employment contract, region and gender UNGC 37,46,47 no collective G4-11 Percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining agreements UNGC agreements G4-12 Description of the organisation’s supply chain 67 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding the organisation’s size, G4-13 14–15 structure, ownership, or its supply chain Explanation whether and how the precautionary approach or principle G4-14 67 is addressed by the organisation Externally developed economic, environmental and social charters, principles, G4-15 29 or other initiatives to which the organisation subscribes or which it endorses Memberships of associations (such as industry associations) G4-16 29 and national or international advocacy organisations UNGC Linkage to UN Global Compact Ten Principles UNGC 94 About the report 8 Indicator Indicator number Pages number Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries All entities included in the organisation’s consolidated financial statements G4-17 17 or equivalent documents G4-18 Process for defining the report content 91 G4-19 Identified aspects of social and environmental impacts 91 Significance of the identified aspect of social and environmental impacts G4-20 91 for particular entities Limitations regarding the aspects of social and environmental impacts G4-21 91 concerning the entities outside the organisation Explanations of the effect of any restatements of information provided in previous reports, and the reasons for such restatements and their influence G4-22 Not applicable (e.g. mergers, acquisitions, the change of a year/the reference period, the type of organisation, measurement methods) Significant changes from previous reporting period in the scope G4-23 Not applicable and aspect boundaries Stakeholder Engagement G4-24 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organisation 30, 31 G4-25 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage 31 Organisation’s approach to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of G4-26 31 engagement by type and by stakeholder group Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder G4-27 engagement, and how the organisation has responded to those key topics 31 and concerns, including through its reporting Report Profile G4-28 Reporting period (such as fiscal or calendar year) 91 G4-29 Date of most recent previous report (if any) Not applicable G4-30 Reporting cycle (such as annual, biennial) 91 G4-31 Contact point 91 G4-32 GRI Content Index 94 Organisation’s policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report. If not included in the assurance report accompanying the sustainability G4-33 91 report, the explanation of the scope and basis of any external assurance provided and the relationship between the organisation and the assurance providers 95 Indicator Indicator name Pages number Governance Governance structure of the organisation including committees of the highest G4-34 governance body responsible for particular tasks such as creating the strategy 16 or supervising the organisation Ethics Organisation’s values, principles, standards and norms of behaviour such as G4-56 20 codes of conduct and codes of ethics Category: Economic Aspect: Economic Performance DMA: Economic Performance 18 Direct economic value generated and distributed including revenues, operating costs, G4EC1 employee wages and benefits, subsidies and other community investments, economic 18, 87 value retained, payments to providers of capital and payments to government G4EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government 19 Aspect: Market Presence DMA: Market Presence 40 G4Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local minimum wage EC5 40, 49 at significant locations of operation G4Percentage of senior management at significant locations of operation that are EC6 38 hired from the local community Aspect: Indirect Economic Impacts DMA: Indirect Economic Impacts 85 Extent of development of significant infrastructure investments and services G4EC7 supported – commercial, in-kind, or pro bono engagements. The impact of these 85 activities on the society G4Identification and description of the significant indirect economic impacts, EC8 43, 85 including the extent of impacts G4EC9 Proportion of spending on local suppliers 68 Category: Environmental UNGC Aspect: Energy DMA: Energy 54 G4En3 Direct and indirect energy consumption within the organisation 54 G4En6 Reduction of energy consumption 54 96 About the report 8 Indicator Indicator name Pages number Aspect: Water DMA: Water 56 G4En8 Total water withdrawal by source 56 DMA: Emissions 58 G4En21 NOx, SOx and other significant air emissions by type and weight 58 Aspect: Effluents and Waste DMA: Effluents and Waste 57 G4En22 Total water discharge by quality and destination 57 G4En23 Total water discharge by quality and destination 59 Aspect: Compliance DMA: Compliance 54 G4Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions En29 54 for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations Aspect: Transport DMA: Transport 63 Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other G4En30 goods and materials for the organisation’s operations, and transporting 63 members of the workforce Aspect: Overall DMA: Overall (environmental protection expenditures and investments) 62 G4En31 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type 62 Aspect: Supplier Environmental Assessment DMA: Supplier Environmental Assessment 68 G4En32 Percentage of suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria 68 UNGC Linkage to UN Global Compact Ten Principles UNGC 97 Indicator Indicator name Pages number Category: Social UNGC Working conditions Aspect: Employment DMA: Employment 35 G4Total number and rates of new employee hires and employee turnover LA1 38, 47, 48 by age group, gender and region G4Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary LA2 44 or part-time employees, by significant locations of operation G4LA3 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave by gender 39 Aspect: Occupational health and safety DMA: Occupational health and safety 44 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management–worker G4LA5 health and safety committees that help monitor and advise on occupational 44 health and safety programs Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, G4LA6 and absenteeism, and total number of work-related fatalities by region 45 and by gender G4LA7 Workers with high incidence or high risk of diseases related to their occupation 45 G4LA8 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions 44 Aspect: Education and training courses DMA: Education and training courses 41 G4Average number of training hours per year per employee by LA9 41 employee category and by gender Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support G4LA10 the continued employability of employees and assist them in managing 42 career endings G4Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career LA11 43 development reviews by gender and by employee category Aspect: Diversity and equal opportunity DMA: Diversity and equal opportunity 36 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee G436, 37, LA12 category according to gender, age group, minority group membership, 46, 47 and other indicators of diversity UNGC Linkage to UN Global Compact Ten Principles UNGC 98 About the report 8 Indicator Indicator name Pages number Aspect: Equal remuneration for women and men DMA: Equal remuneration for women and men 40 G4LA13 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men by employee category 40, 49 Aspect: Supplier assessment for employment practices DMA: Supplier assessment for employment practices 68 G4LA14 Percentage of suppliers that were screened using employment practices criteria 68 Human rights Aspect: Non-discrimination DMA: Non-discrimination UNGC 44 G4HR3 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken 44 Society Aspect: Local community DMA: Local community UNGC 85 G4Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, SO1 85 impact assessments and development programs Aspect: Anti-corruption DMA: Anti-corruption UNGC 20 G4SO4 Communication and training courses on anti-corruption policies and procedures 20 G4SO5 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken 20 Aspect: Anti-competitive behaviour DMA: Anti-competitive behaviour 20 G4Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behaviour, anti-trust, SO7 20 and monopoly practices and their outcomes Aspect: Compliance DMA: Compliance 20 G4Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary SO8 20 sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations UNGC Linkage to UN Global Compact Ten Principles UNGC 99 Indicator Indicator name Pages number Product responsibility Aspect: Customer health and safety DMA: Customer health and safety 76 G4Percentage of significant product and service categories for which health PR1 76 and safety impacts are assessed for improvement Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary G4PR2 codes concerning the health and safety impacts of products and services 76 during their life cycle by type of outcomes Aspect: Product and service labelling DMA: Product and service labelling 75 Type of product and service information required by the G4organisation’s procedures for product and service information and labelling, PR3 75 and percentage of significant product and service categories subject to such information requirements Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations G4PR4 and voluntary codes concerning product and service information 75 and labelling by type of outcomes G4PR5 The results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction 80 Aspect: Marketing communications DMA: Marketing communications 78 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations G4PR7 and voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, including 78 advertising, promotion, and sponsorship by type of outcomes Aspect: Customer privacy DMA: Customer privacy 78 G4Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of PR8 78 customer privacy and losses of customer data Nowy Styl Sp. z o.o. ul. Pużaka 49 38-400 Krosno, Poland Tel. +48 13 43 76 100 Fax +48 13 43 62 732 info@nowystylgroup.com www.NowyStylGroup.com
