Knorr-Bremse Group UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT 2014 2 C O M M U N I C AT I O N O N P R O G R E S S R E P O R T KNORR-BREMSE GROUP 2014 1/ 2/ 3/ 4/ Statement of Knorr-Bremse Human rights Labor standards continued support Group Statement of continued Structure and organization Code of Conduct General working conditions support 07 11 15 05 Divisions and products Sustainability in Attractive employer 07 purchasing management 15 12 Corporate Responsibility Diversity and equal management Health and safety opportunities 08 12 17 Sustainable support Work/life balance from Knorr-Bremse 18 Global Care 13 Sustainable supply chain management 18 Commitment of Knorr-Bremse Global Care 18 CONTENTS 3 5/ 6/ 7/ Environment AntiSummary corruption Environmental Environmentally-friendly Anti-corruption and Summary management product portfolio compliance 33 21 25 31 Climate protection Expansion of Further guidelines targets 2020 remanufacturing 31 22 27 Internal audits Energy efficiency Sustainable product 31 23 life cycle 29 Risk management Green IT 31 23 Social contribution of Knorr-Bremse Global Care Resource efficiency 29 23 Efficient logistics 24 Environmental design of sites and buildings 24 4 GESCHÄFTSBEREICHE UND PRODUKTE EIN PROFILIERTES UNTERNEHMEN MIT TRADITION K N O R R B R E M S E ’ S D A I LY M I S S I O N : M A K I N G M O B I L I T Y S A F E R S TAT E M E N T O F C O N T I N U E D S U P P O R T 5 1/ Statement of continued support Ladies and gentlemen, As a family-owned business with a tradition going back many years, we regard sustainability as an important part of our business model. We retain our competitive edge by taking a long-term view and operating responsibility in the interests of our customers, employees, suppliers, the environment and society as a whole. That is why we have drawn up clear guidelines in the form of a sustainability strategy. We are determined to help develop resource-efficient forms of mobility, protect the global climate and make road and rail transportation safer and more reliable. For our customers and suppliers we aim to be a reliable partner in all respects, and for our staff we aim to be an attractive employer. That is why we believe in developing an ongoing dialogue and relationship of trust with our business partners and employees alike. The results of our global employee survey in 2014 indicate that we are well on the way to achieving this: Our employees are proud of their company, its achievements and its social commitment – all of which are crucial to our combined success. It is their motivation and their ideas that help us to constantly improve our products and processes. We regard environmental protection, economic efficiency and innovation with a view to creating more effective and environmentally compatible products as important aspects of our corporate responsibility. In 2014 we succeeded in cutting our specific energy consumption by a further ten per cent, reducing our delivery distances and incorporating aspects of responsibility into our innovation processes. We also want to generate added value in the social context in which we operate: Employees at our sites around the world have been involved in a total of 170 projects funded by the charitable organization Knorr-Bremse Global Care – ranging from support for the training of disadvantaged young people to emergency aid in the aftermath of natural disasters. Knorr-Bremse has been a signatory to the UN Global Compact since 2010. As such, we subscribe to the ten principles laid down in the Global Compact in the fields of human rights, labor standards, environment and anti-corruption. In this fourth Communication on Progress Report we show the guiding principles, systems and measures we have implemented and what we have achieved since our last Report. Klaus Deller Chairman of the Executive Board of Knorr-Bremse AG FOR 110 YEARS KNORR-BREMSE HAS BEEN DRIVING T H E D E V E LO PM E N T, P R O D U C T I O N, MA R K E T I N G A N D S E R V I C I N G O F S TAT E O F T H E A R T B R A K I N G S Y S T E M S . THE KNORR-BREMSE GROUP – 7 AN OVERVIEW 2/ The Knorr-Bremse Group – an overview The Knorr-Bremse Group, with its headquarters in Munich, is the world’s leading manufacturer of braking and on-board systems for rail and commercial vehicles. Since 1905 the company has pioneered the Knorr-Bremse AG development, production, marketing and servicing of state-of-the-art braking and on-board systems. Knorr-Bremse maintains a global presence, with more than 100 sites in 29 different countries. Europe North South Asia/ Structure and organization Africa America America Australia Within the Group, Knorr-Bremse AG is the umbrella Middle East company for the two corporate divisions Rail Vehicle Systems (more than 14,000 employees) and Commercial Vehicle Systems (more than 9,000 employees) as well as various regional companies. Management of the business is divided into three regions Rail Vehicle – Europe, North America/South America and Asia/ Systems Australia. This structure enables the company to offer customers of both divisions uniform, globally tested technical platforms and at the same time take into account local market and customer requirements. Commercial Vehicle Divisions and products Systems With all its products Knorr-Bremse contributes significantly to safety on roads and railways the world over. More than a billion people worldwide rely daily on Knorr-Bremse systems. REGIONAL UND DIVISIONAL STRUCTURE OF KNORR-BREMSE 8 C O M M U N I C AT I O N O N P R O G R E S S R E P O R T KNORR-BREMSE GROUP 2014 Knorr-Bremse Rail Vehicle Systems is the world‘s leadees, environmental and climate protection and social ing manufacturer of braking and on-board systems commitment. for urban and mainline trains. Systems manufactured In 2008 Knorr-Bremse incorporated the principle of by our company are installed in streetcars and metCorporate Responsibility into its Group strategy and ros, locomotives, multiple units, freight cars and developed an appropriate structure for its implemenhigh-speed trains. Other product areas and brands tation. are train entrance systems from IFE, platform screen doors from Westinghouse Platform Screen Doors, For us, sustainability is a strategic issue that has to be HVAC units from our subsidiary Merak, HVAC systems established in all our operational processes. That is why from Sigma Coachair Group, rail vehicle automation we are determined to integrate environmental and socomponents and solutions from Selectron and drive cial aspects into both our long-term business strategy simulators from Sydac. Driver assistance systems, and our day-to-day activities. By doing so we can make sanding units and additional devices such as derailan important contribution towards ensuring the future ment detectors complete the product portfolio. of our company – and towards an economy and Since 2014 Knorr-Bremse has also developed and society based on the principle of sustainability. produced power supply systems for rail vehicles under the new PowerTech brand. Knorr-Bremse‘s assumption of corporate responsibility is based on its group-wide Code of Conduct and Knorr-Bremse Commercial Vehicle Systems manufacCR guidelines, which are in turn based on the compatures braking systems for trucks, buses, trailers and ny‘s internal values as well as the guidelines of the UN agricultural vehicles. In the field of chassis systems Global Compact. This was the basis on which Knorrwe are world leaders in electronic control and driver Bremse further developed its sustainability measures assistance systems (for example ABS and EPS) as well as air treatment systems – and as such make an important contribution towards road safety. Further product fields include torsional vibration dampers for diesel engines and powertrain-related solutions as Supplier Award well as transmission control systems for enhanced energy efficiency and fuel economy. Examples of brand names in this area are Hasse & Wrede, Bendix and Bendix Spicer Foundation Brake LLC. With our products and components we offer pioneering and sustainable solutions for ensuring the overall efficiency of systems in rail and commercial vehicles. We also provide aftermarket services: for the maintenance, overhaul and repair of braking and onboard systems in the rail sector these are provided through Knorr-Bremse RailServices; and our range of services for distributors, repair shops, fleet managers and drivers in the commercial vehicle sector is provided through Knorr-Bremse Active Service. Customers are increasingly scrutinizing our sustainability management systems – and with highly gratifying results: In June 2014 Knorr-Bremse received Corporate Responsibility a “Supplier Sustainability Award“ from Bombardier Management Transportation in the category “Companies with more than 500 employees“ in recognition of its consistent Our approach to Corporate Responsibility (CR) is mainstreaming of sustainability in all parts of the based on the idea of sustainable development and company. covers products and production processes, employTHE KNORR-BREMSE GROUP – 9 AN OVERVIEW during the period under review. One particular – with the corporate divisions responsible for their focus was the drawing up of a materiality analysis. This successful implementation. Specific behavioral guideinvolved systematically evaluating which sustainabililines ensure that in their day-to-day work all employty issues are of crucial relevance for the future viability ees are able to contribute towards the company‘s of Knorr-Bremse. On the basis of these results and in performance in this respect. ongoing dialogue with the specialist departments and the Group Executive Board, Knorr-Bremse revised Further information on our CR strategy and manageand extended its CR strategy during 2014. Operationment can be found in the 2014 Annual Report or on al implementation takes place in six central areas: our website: strategy and management, products and partners, www.knorr-bremse.de/cr employees and leadership, environment and climate, commitment and society, and communication and cooperation. In organizational terms, the issue of Corporate Responsibility is embedded at top management level: The CR Council consists of the CFO, representatives of management from both corporate divisions, the chair of the charitable organization Knorr-Bremse Global Care and the head of the Corporate Responsibility staff unit. It is here that the central issues are discussed and specific targets set for the specialist departments Main focus of CR strategy Development and organization Structuring and implementation Excellence 2008 – 2010 2011 – 2014 2015 – 2020 Strategy CR strategy and guidelines CR incorporated into strategic CR organization set up & Management introduced planning and operational processes First life cycle analyses Product portfolio evaluated Establishing sustainability Products & Partners carried out for sustainability in supply chain Employees Corporate and leadership Increasing attractiveness Dialogue initiated & Leadership culture strengthened as an employer Environment ECCO2 energy efficiency ECCO2 target achieved Implementing climate & Climate initiative launched and new targets set protection strategy Knorr-Bremse Global Care: implementation of worldwide aid projects Commitment & Society Worldwide Local Care projects Strengthening employee Local Care projects initiated systematized involvement Communication Sustainability Group-wide External CR communication Implementing systematic & Cooperation communicated expanded stakeholder dialogue A S A S TA K E H O L D E R I N S O C I E T Y, K N O R R B R E M S E I S CONCERNED WITH SOCIAL ISSUES. HUMAN RIGHTS 11 3/ Human rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights within their sphere of influence and Principle 2: make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Knorr-Bremse respects the protection of human from discrimination and a ban on child and forced rights and makes sure that it is not complicit in hulabor, and defines our basic principles and rules of man rights abuses. We are committed to respecting conduct. These rules are mandatory for all Group emthe principles of the internationally recognized stanployees and apply to all investment agreements and dards contained in the UN Global Compact, the Intersupplier contracts. national Labor Organization (ILO) Conventions and the UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights. These The independent Internal Audit function of voluntary commitments underpin our activities in Knorr-Bremse AG carries out audits to check people’s conjunction with the relevant national legislation. awareness of the Code of Conduct and to see whether it is actively communicated by managers. Code of Conduct As a technology leader, it goes without saying that the Knorr-Bremse Group always conducts itself in a correct, responsible and exemplary manner. In this context we have developed a Group-wide Code of Conduct based on existing local guidelines. Since 2012 this has laid down the basic principles for approaching our day-to-day activities – on the basis of our corporate values and the principles of the UN Global Compact. It enables us to ensure that there is a consistent understanding of what constitutes responsible corporate behavior that transcends frontiers. The Knorr-Bremse Code of Conduct includes human rights aspects such as freedom of opinion, freedom 12 C O M M U N I C AT I O N O N P R O G R E S S R E P O R T KNORR-BREMSE GROUP 2014 Managing sustainability al Compact; in transportation and warehouse logistics, the companies that have done so account for 80 in purchasing per cent of the total volume of goods shipped by the The conduct of our suppliers affects our success and division. our reputation as a responsible company. For this reason we have made sustainability criteria an integral At the start of 2015 the division launched the part of our purchasing policy. Amongst other things “Railsponsible” initiative together with Alstom Transthe Knorr-Bremse purchasing guidelines for indirect port, Bombardier Transportation, Deutsche Bahn, materials requires sustainability to be taken into Nederlandse Spoorwegen, and SNCF. The initiative is account when choosing suppliers. Suppliers to the guided by the principles of the UN Global Compact Rail Vehicle Systems division must accept the “Quality and aims to encourage railway industry customers Management Guidelines for Purchasing”, while supand suppliers around the world to commit to ethical pliers to the Commercial Vehicle Systems division and social behavior as well as responsible environmust subscribe to the “Quality Management Program mental and business practices. It does this primarily for Purchasing”. Both documents cover aspects of by promoting a common understanding of sustainresponsible behavior. able purchasing processes, sharing knowledge and experience, and pooling information systems for use Both divisions also expect suppliers to have environby member companies. mental management systems according to ISO 14001 www.railsponsible.org – if possible with the required certification. If a supplier does not adhere to these standards, we reserve the During its 2014 annual suppliers’ conference, right to cease working with that supplier. Knorr-Bremse’s subsidiary Bendix presented our sustainability strategy to its top 100 suppliers and disThe Commercial Vehicle Systems division’s Quality cussed relevant topics relating to the supply chain. Management Program for Procurement contains an entire chapter devoted to Corporate Responsibility, which includes the following statement: “The ten Health & safety principles defined in the UN Global Compact reflect Our health, work and environmental protection polithe minimum standards and basic requirements of cy, which applies to the entire Group, states: “We enCR that we set ourselves and expect from our supplisure a safe and healthy working environment by proers and business partners around the world.” The moting the prevention of injuries and impairment to Program also contains practical examples designed health”. Important components in our preventive to assist suppliers in implementing the ten principles. safety management system include analysis of In 2014 we produced a revised version of the purchnear-accidents and Group-wide safety reporting in asing guidelines, which more than 670 suppliers to both divisions. Other key aspects are risk assessments the Commercial Vehicle Systems division (not including of machinery, workplaces and working processes, the suppliers to joint ventures) – i.e. over 55 per cent – have promotion of safety consciousness in the workforce signed. We conduct individual pre-audits of all new through training courses and information campaigns, suppliers. the analysis of accidents and accident-prevention measures derived from this. The Rail Vehicle Systems division checks suppliers’ compliance with, and implementation of, the ten Our occupational health and safety management principles of the UN Global Compact by assessing system meets the requirements of the international them both at the start of the business relationship standard OHSAS 18001 (Occupational Health and and in the course of three-yearly audits. Suppliers reSafety Assessment Series) and we conduct internal ceive a rating in the form of one of four possible “maaudits at regular intervals. The main production and turity levels.” In 2014 the division evaluated 240 supservice sites in our Rail Vehicle Systems division are pliers by self-assessment. Even the largest logistics certified according to OHSAS 18001. Using standardproviders to the Rail Vehicle Systems division must ized processes, we record and analyze the key indicashow that they conform to the principles of the Globtors on occupational safety on which we base approHUMAN RIGHTS 13 Gold Award for accident prevention 2012 1.1 2013 0.9 In 2014 Knorr-Bremse Rail Systems (UK) was once again presented with a Gold Award by the Royal Society for the 2014 1.0 Prevention of Accidents (RoSPA). www.rospa.com Injury rate per 200,000 hours worked priate measures. In order to maintain and further Sustainable support improve our high standards of health and safety at work, we provide internal training courses at regular from Knorr-Bremse Global Care intervals and offer those responsible the opportunity A regular income, a roof over your head, access to to take part in international congresses, conferences medical treatment and education – these are all and projects. things that cannot be taken for granted in many countries of the world. Since 2005 the charitable The success of our occupational safety management organization Knorr-Bremse Global Care has been system is also reflected in our key performance indisupporting people who, through no fault of their cators. The rate of injuries resulting in days lost per own, find themselves in need as a result of environ200,000 hours worked has remained low in recent mental disasters, accidents, armed conflict, poverty years, although in 2014 the accident rate rose slightly or illness. The central aim of the organization is to imby 6% to 1 accident per 200,000 hours worked. prove their lives and help them to achieve greater independence by enabling them to support themIn 2014, our Chinese subsidiary IFE Victall in Qingdao selves and determine their own lives. The principle of installed an integrated dust extraction system for its helping people to help themselves applies throughgrinding workplaces. The system prevents the grindout. We see our role as being partners who can also ing dust from entering the air breathed by the contribute time, skills and experience to projects as employees and significantly reduces the risk of dust well as financial resources. explosions. In 2015, the system received the KnorrBremse Global Value Award, which recognizes excelAt the same time we want to raise awareness of lent ideas within the Group for realizing our corposocial responsibility amongst employees of the rate values. Knorr-Bremse Group and encourage them to become actively involved themselves. This way they In order to preserve and promote our employees’ can operate as multipliers and spread the idea of long-term health, an extensive range of offerings is making a personal contribution to the outside world. available throughout the Group. These are tailored to the local needs of our individual sites and include Further information and examples of projects can measures such as ergonomic workplace design, be found on the Internet at stress management seminars, fitness programs and www.global-care.knorr-bremse.com/en/ medical examinations. In-house medical care is available to employees at all our sites. In addition to important preventive check-ups, vaccinations and pre-travel consultations are also offered. The offering to employees at our Munich site includes massages, gyms, nutritional advice and sporting events. In the USA, our Bendix subsidiary offers its employees an extensive range of activities and information on subjects such as breast cancer awareness, healthy nutrition and physical fitness as part of its “Bendix Be Healthy” program. 14 KNORR-BREMSE GROUP FORTSCHRIT TSBERICHT 2014 K N O R R B R E M S E AT TA C H E S G R E AT I M P O R TA N C E T O C R E AT I N G A N AT T R A C T I V E W O R K I N G ENVIRONMENT AND ASSUMING RESPONSIBILITY FOR ITS EMPLOYEES. L A B O R S TA N D A R D S 15 4/ Labor standards Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining and furthermore uphold Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labor and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Knorr-Bremse respects and protects the rights of its ployee representation bodies such as the Group employees and in this regard has made its own clear Works Council. commitments in the Knorr-Bremse Code of Conduct: Compliance with high standards for a safe and healthy We respect employees’ freedom of association and working environment, fair working conditions, the assembly and their right to collective bargaining, inright to freedom of association and active promotion asmuch as this is permitted and feasible in the counof equal opportunities, and equal treatment for our try concerned. Members of employee organizations employees throughout the world all form a key part or trade unions are neither disadvantaged nor given of our Corporate Responsibilities. We are categoripreferential treatment. cally opposed to all forms of forced and child labor. Attractive employer General working conditions As a family-run business we attach great importance In keeping with our stance on fair working condito our tradition of treating our employees in a retions, certain minimum standards are stipulated in sponsible manner. Knorr-Bremse is keen to position our employees’ contracts. The basis of each contract itself worldwide as an attractive employer capable of is voluntary agreement with the employees, who recruiting and retaining top quality staff. Amongst may exercise their right to terminate the contract other things this involves recognizing good perforunilaterally after the relevant period of time has mance and helping employees achieve a balance elapsed. When we recruit a new employee we always between their personal and professional goals. verify their age to ensure that they are above the statutory minimum employment age. 2012 19,120 As a family company, Knorr-Bremse attaches particu2013 20,833 lar importance to establishing an atmosphere of trust 2014 23,916 and cooperation across all levels of the hierarchy. This includes a constructive exchange with established emNumber of employees 16 C O M M U N I C AT I O N O N P R O G R E S S R E P O R T KNORR-BREMSE GROUP 2014 Good work calls for fair, performance-based remuboosting employee satisfaction. Within the frameneration. In order to improve internal transparency work of what is locally feasible, Knorr-Bremse also ofand comparability, we launched a project entitled fers voluntary contributions to a company pension in “Job Evaluation” in 2013, which involved drawing up line with statutory requirements and tax and social standardized descriptions of all posts within the security legislation. Group. The idea was to ensure fair, performance-based remuneration at all sites. We support our employees by offering them more flexible working times, part-time working, teleIn addition to fair and performance-based remuneraworking, and time off to care for children or other tion, employees at the various sites are also offered a family members. Extensive scope for improving perrange of voluntary extra benefits such as meal allowsonal and specialist skills enables employees to add ances, mobility allowances and sports and health to their qualification levels – even beyond what is provisions aimed at responding to local needs and required by their particular job profile (see page 18). Top Employer Our HR policy aims to publicize the Knorr-Bremse Group’s ment environment” and the fact that it “offers a wide range reputation as an attractive employer – not just to the general of creative incentives, from secondary benefits and flexible public but also in particular to the highly qualified young peoworking conditions to performance-management programs ple who are the key to the company‘s future. Several awards that are well thought out and truly aligned with the culture have confirmed the success of this approach: In the “Univerof the company.” sum Student Survey“ carried out by WirtschaftsWoche magazine in 2013, Knorr-Bremse significantly improved its position Knorr-Bremse’s Hong Kong headquarters is at the center of and for the first time was rated as one of the top 100 employthe company‘s market activities in the Asia-Pacific region. In ers for engineers in Germany. 2014 the site’s attractive and fair working conditions won it recognition as one of the “Best companies to work for in Asia“ In China Knorr-Bremse won first prize in 2014 in the “Best following internal surveys and external audits and assessOrganization Development Program” organized by 51JOB, ments carried out by HR Asia Magazine. Knorr-Bremse’s ratChina‘s leading HR services company to honor exceptional ings exceeded all the market benchmarks. HR management in the rapidly developing Chinese market. In 2015, for the second year in succession, Knorr-Bremse was named “Top Employer for Engineers in Germany“ by the International Top Employers Institute in Amsterdam. In its verdict the Institute mentioned Knorr-Bremse’s “outstanding employL A B O R S TA N D A R D S 17 In order to increase motivation and loyalty to the In a joint initiative with the Technical University of company, we organize family days for employees and Munich, we provide support for female students of their families at many sites. scientific and technical subjects preparing to enter professional life. In a program called mentorING, the A reliable indicator for levels of satisfaction within the female students are provided with mentors who help workforce is provided by the employee survey that them to build up networks relevant to their studies we carry out every three years. The latest survey took and future professions. Seminars and training courses place in 2014 and elicited responses from more than tailored to specific target groups round off the program. 80% of Knorr-Bremse‘s total workforce. The results paint a similar picture to the previous survey in 2011: Many employees appreciate the good relations that Encouraging girls to explore technology they have with their managers and are proud to be part of the company. On the other hand they see In order to encourage more girls to consider training in a scope for improvement regarding the high level of technological profession, Knorr-Bremse’s Munich headwork intensity caused by Knorr-Bremse‘s strong quarters is involved in the “Girls for Technology” camp orgrowth and also the internal exchange of knowledge. ganized by the Bavarian Industrial Training Institute (bbw). We are using these results as a basis for working with www.tezba.de employees to introduce improvements. In North America, our Bendix subsidiary offers female Diversity and equal opportunities managers the opportunity to attend a training proWe consider the cultural diversity of our workforce to gram focusing on women in management positions. be one of our key economic success factors. As a Over a period of six months there are regular workgroup that operates around the world, we promote shops, an important aspect of which is the chance to understanding and appreciation of other cultures exchange ideas with women in management posiand lifestyles and actively promote the integration of tions in other companies in the industry. employees from other countries. To promote cultural diversity and anchor it more firmly in our company, Severely disabled employees and those with serious we are increasing cross-regional exchange through health conditions receive special protection and asintercultural training courses, language courses and sistance at Knorr-Bremse. The disabled employees’ periods spent working abroad, for example. In order representative helps to find the right workplace for to ensure the necessary closeness to our markets and them within the company. The proportion of discustomers and to make use of country-specific lanabled employees at our German locations in 2014 guage skills and cultural competence, we attach parwas 4.9 per cent (2013: 4.6 per cent). ticular importance to employing local executives at our international sites. With regard to pay scales, no difference is made between men and women. In Germany, Knorr-Bremse’s policy of equal pay has been acknowledged with the award of the Logib-D certificate by the Federal Ministry for Family Affairs, Senior Citizens, Women and Youth. New employees and executives are hired solely on the basis of their qualifications. We endeavor to consider women appropriately for positions at all levels of the company hierarchy. As in many technical and engineering-driven companies, the proportion of female employees is still relatively low (2014: 20 per cent). One of the central challenges for the immediate future is to change this – both in the workforce as a whole and at executive level. 18 C O M M U N I C AT I O N O N P R O G R E S S R E P O R T KNORR-BREMSE GROUP 2014 Work/life balance supply agreement. A combination of voluntary disOne of the aims of our HR policy, particularly as a closure and supplier audits enables us to assess the family-owned company, is to promote work-life balextent to which our suppliers meet the requireance – especially in countries which, like Germany, ments of the guidelines and implement the princiface major challenges as a result of demographic ples of the Global Compact change. So that employees can manage to reconcile the demands of their work and their families – from highly qualified women wishing to stay at work deCommitment of Knorr-Bremse spite having children, or fathers wanting to play a Global Care bigger part in bringing up the children, to those with Good quality education in a secure learning environdependents requiring care – Knorr-Bremse offers the ment is essential for people to be able to lead indefollowing assistance, as required: pendent lives and determine their own future. In a bid to prevent child labor and promote the develop>> Flexible working hours and working time acment of children, Knorr-Bremse – via its charitable counts for employees on regular salary scales organization Knorr-Bremse Global Care – actively >> Part-time working supports education campaigns and projects in coun>> Sabbaticals – enabling employees to take time tries in which children and young people, for varying out for several months and then return to their reasons, often have no opportunity to undergo trainjob. ing and obtain vocational qualifications. The organi>> Teleworking zation actively supports measures to permanently >> Care provisions for the family – for example childimprove living conditions for children. care or care for relatives One example is the project we have been running In 2013 for the first time, Knorr-Bremse was awarded the with our partner organization Save the Children in prestigious “Audit Beruf und Familie” certificate in Erbil, northern Iraq. Since January 2014 almost acknowledgement of the company’s family-friendly 3,000,000 people have sought shelter here after personnel policy. The award followed detailed assessfleeing from attacks by ISIL in the region around ments by the auditing company berufundfamilie Baghdad and in Syria. The aim of the project is to gGmbH. Within the framework of the audit further create “child-friendly spaces“ for young people and areas of activity were identified and an action plan was children, who make up around half of the total numdrawn up for the years 2013 to 2016. This includes the ber of refugees and displaced persons, to play and fields of work organization, job location, working time, learn in safety. The children are also offered psychoservices for families, personnel development, informasocial support to help them recover from their traution and communication, and leadership. Implementamatic experiences. One element of the project aims tion progress is measured and documented on an anto increase awareness in families of the fact that – nual basis. Reauditing is planned for 2016. even in such difficult circumstances – children have a www.beruf-und-familie.de right to go to school and do not have to contribute to the family income by working. Sustainable supply chain Further information and examples of projects can be management found on the Internet at In order to ensure that our suppliers also act in acwww.global-care.knorr-bremse.com cordance with our principles and obligations, we have incorporated the UN Global Compact principles into our Rail and Commercial Vehicle Systems divisions’ Quality Management Guidelines for Procurement as an integral part of our contracts with suppliers (see page 12). If suppliers fail to comply, Knorr-Bremse retains the right to terminate the L A B O R S TA N D A R D S 19 O N E O B J E C T I V E O F K N O R R B R E M S E ’ S H R P O L I C Y I S T O I N C R E A S E T H E C O M PA N Y ’ S AT T R A C T I O N A S AN EMPLOYER. W I T H I T S G R O U P W I D E E N V I R O N M E N TA L P O L I C Y A N D E N V I R O N M E N TA L M A N A G E M E N T S Y S T E M , KNORR-BREMSE MEETS ITS RESPONSIBILITIES R E G A R D I N G T H E E N V I R O N M E N T. E N V I R O N M E N TA L P R O T E C T I O N 21 5/ Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges, Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Knorr-Bremse is committed to integrated, precaubined with proactive maintenance of our entire infrationary environmental protection and consistently structure ensures that we operate with as little negapromotes the development and dissemination of entive impact on the environment as possible. vironmentally friendly technologies. Our aim is to minimize the impact on the environment through Since 2001 we have been driving a process of Groupresponsible, sustainable use of natural resources, to wide certification of all sites under the international continuously improve environmental protection and environmental management standard ISO 14001. By to develop a greater sense of responsibility amongst the end of 2014 virtually all our main production sites employees and suppliers. had achieved certification: 28 in the Rail Vehicle Systems division and 12 in the Commercial Vehicle Systems division. Environmental management Knorr-Bremse’s environmental principles are set out We use internal training and communication to inin the Health, Safety and Environmental Policy that crease our employees’ awareness of environmental was adopted in 2010. The policy states: “We will preissues. Individual sites carry out annual assessments vent or minimize the impact of our processes, serof training needs and put together the relevant vices and products on the environment, safety and in-service training programs. health.” In order to achieve this aim, the Group has introduced an environmental management system We also run a variety of awareness-raising campaigns at all its production sites. This is coordinated by cenand initiatives. Information brochures, calendars, lectral HSE departments for the Rail Vehicle Systems and ture series, competitions, family events and exhibiCommercial Vehicle Systems divisions. tions offer tips and tricks for environmentally responsible behavior at work and in the home. The subjects We are constantly improving environmental protecof these campaigns are selected according to the tion within the company. To do so we gather and main activities of each site and can range from enerevaluate environmental data and establish environgy-saving to waste reduction and separation at promental targets at Group and site level. Regularly duction facilities or driver training aimed at improvchecking and servicing of machines and plant, coming safety and efficiency. 22 C O M M U N I C AT I O N O N P R O G R E S S R E P O R T KNORR-BREMSE GROUP 2014 Climate protection targets 2020 troducing an energy management system in compliIn order to reduce our CO2 emissions, we have develance with ISO 50001 at our sites, with certification at oped a climate protection strategy that lays down our German sites due to be completed by the end of targets for the entire Group for the year 2020. The 2015. main focus is on three areas: energy (optimizing building design and processes), logistics and prodWe also aim to achieve further reductions in transucts. port-related CO2 emissions in logistics, including through optimized warehouse structures and route Our measures to reduce carbon dioxide emissions planning and by logistics service providers using (Scope 1 and Scope 2 as defined in the Greenhouse more efficient vehicles. Gas Protocol) are grouped together in Efficient Cut of CO2 (ECCO2), an initiative that was launched in 2009. We use life cycle assessments (LCAs) and impact analOur original aim was to achieve a 20 per cent reducyses of substitute materials to assess the environtion in our specific CO2 emissions by 2020 and to inmental and climate impact of our products and syscrease our specific energy efficiency by the same tems. Our aim is to expand our portfolio of amount. We had already achieved this target by the environmentally friendly products. end of 2014, so we have two new targets for the second phase of ECCO2: we intend to achieve a further 10 per cent reduction in relative CO2 emissions by Energy efficiency 2020 and increase our energy efficiency (in relation Through our ECCO2 initiative, we identify potential to sales revenue) by 10 per cent. We are gradually inenergy savings in all areas of the company and share CLIMATE PROTECTION AT KNORR-BREMSE FOCUS ON ENERGY FOCUS ON THREE AREAS (SCOPE 1, SCOPE 2*) ECCO2 PHASE II (2014 – 2020) Emissions reduction target: -10% of relative CO2 emissions (CO2 emissions/TEUR) FOCUS Energy efficiency target: ON PRODUCTS 10% increase in energy efficiency (kWh/TEUR) (SCOPE 3**) Sustainable energy management target: A  ssessment of environmentally friendly Introduction of an ISO 50001 compliant internal product portfolio energy management system Implementation of life cycle assessments FOCUS A  nalysis of environmental ON LOGISTICS impact of alternative materials (SCOPE 3**) SUPPLY CHAIN EXCELLENCE O  ptimization of transport network, warehouse structure and route planning  se of fuel-efficient vehicles by logistics U suppliers Reduction of transport-related CO2 emissions *d irect and indirect emissions resulting from the use of natural gas, heating oil (Scope 1) as well as electricity and district heating (Scope 2). ** indirect emissions from fuel consumption and phases of product manufacturing and use E N V I R O N M E N TA L P R O T E C T I O N 23 local examples of best practice. In 2013/2014 our foduced an optimized cooling concept in the server cus was on buildings, plants and production processrooms that has halved the cooling requirement, leades. We installed more energy-efficient lighting and ing to a reduction in cooling energy of around 30 per waste heat recovery systems at a number of sites, cent. In addition, central standards for hardware and improved assembly lines and motivated staff to save software and measures relating to employee conduct energy. We are installing sub-meters at our sites that are reducing the environmental impact associated will give us a detailed breakdown of our energy conwith the procurement, use and disposal of our IT sumption. This will help us identify areas where savequipment. ings can be made and develop measures to reduce energy consumption. In order to encourage an exchange of best practice examples we publicize sucResource efficiency cessful projects and apply them at other sites. Knorr-Bremse endeavors to make sparing and efficient use of materials in its production processes. In particular this applies to steel and iron materials, light metals, polymers, fuels and lubricants and packaging materials. We are working on increasing the proportion of non-hazardous materials and on using more environmentally friendly alternatives wherever possible. Our subsidiary Bendix is reducing energy consumption for heating and air conditioning at many of its Our waste consists primarily of scrap metal, paper sites through flexible systems for distributing waste and packaging and residual waste. In addition, surheat from the compressor rooms. During the winter face treatment of our products results in electro-platmonths, the waste heat is used to help heat the ing sludge. Measures taken to reduce waste and imbuildings and in the summer months it is diverted so prove material cycles in recent years have already led as to reduce the amount of energy required for air to a significant reduction in the amount of waste we conditioning. have to dispose of. The Group-wide recycling rate is currently around 78 per cent. In 2013, our subsidiary Bendix introduced a recycling program that in2012 64.6 creased the proportion of recyclable waste at its sites 2013 65.1 to 96 per cent. 2014 58.6 The water we consume is used primarily in the surface treatment and cleaning of our products, for test Specific energy consumption in kWh per 1,000 EUR sales applications and for drinking water and sanitary purposes. We obtain our water from local authority supThe Group reduced its energy consumption per EUR pliers and dispose of our waste water via public sew1,000 of revenues from 64.6 kWh in 2012 to 58.6 kWh age systems. It is our aim to use water as efficiently as in 2014. We are working to reduce specific energy possible and to reuse it as much as possible through consumption further by optimization of equipment, recycling systems. In 2014, we lowered our specific more efficient processes, and extensive upgrades at fresh water consumption (in relation to turnover) by our sites. 27.6 per cent compared with 2013. Green IT 2012 93.0 The energy requirements of our IT systems are having 2013 122.2 a growing impact on our ecological balance sheet. As part of its Green IT project, Knorr-Bremse has modern2014 88.5 ized its data processing center and the PC workstations at its headquarters in Munich. We have introSpecific water consumption (l/1000 EUR sales) 24 C O M M U N I C AT I O N O N P R O G R E S S R E P O R T KNORR-BREMSE GROUP 2014 Some of our sites use rainwater for cleaning, in their center that handles all shipping for four production sanitary facilities and for watering green spaces, so as sites, enabling us to reduce average shipping disto save drinking water. At our headquarters in tances in this market segment by 10 per cent per ton. Munich, the administrative buildings and data proFor the Commercial Vehicle Systems division we have cessing center are cooled by a circulation system that set up a logistics hub in Southern Germany where we uses well water. combine and redistribute consignments for seven production sites. These new premises have enabled us to reduce the total number of shipments made, Efficient logistics and increase average capacity utilization per journey To bring about improvements across the entire supby 25 per cent. ply chain – from receipt of materials from the supplier to delivery of the finished product to our customers – in 2007 the Group launched its “Supply Chain Environmental design of sites and Excellence” (SCE) initiative, which now applies at all buildings sites worldwide. The aim of the initiative is to stanWe want our new sites and buildings to be as environdardize procedures and methods in order to optimentally friendly as possible. In 2014, Knorr-Bremse mize processes within our sites, and co-operation produced a construction manual for plants and buildbetween them. The result is better service quality in ings that includes comprehensive environmental criall distribution channels – particularly in relation to teria related to the energy concept, CO2-neutral enerdelivery reliability, quality, and lead time. gy production, life cycle cost calculations and energy monitoring. In addition, we take local conditions into Knorr-Bremse uses “cross-company sales” (CC sales) account, e.g. by ensuring we select the best constructo sell products directly to customers from its protion materials for the local climate conditions. duction sites; this eliminates unnecessary journeys to intermediate Knorr-Bremse warehouses. CC sales Smart planning of new buildings aims to keep also have the advantage that the sales units remain environmental impact and use of resources at a low in direct contact with the customer at all times. They level from the very outset and ensure that emenable us to cut overall distances travelled, streamployees have a pleasant and healthy atmosphere line our supply chain, reduce lead times and imin which to work. prove delivery performance. Since 2012 we have avoided around 160,000 unnecessary shipments in this way. In Europe, almost all of our sales organizations use CC sales, while elsewhere we continue to develop corresponding processes. In 2014 some 94,000 items were handled via CC sales – 37 per cent more than in 2012. To keep the environmental impact of our product shipping activities to a minimum, we are working to coordinate the various modes of transportation – road, rail, ship and air – optimally with one another, and drive forward our use of intermodal transportation. The SCE project has considerably streamlined route planning. In order to enhance the efficiency of our logistics network and reduce CO2 emissions, we require our logistics partners to use modern vehicles that consume as little fuel as possible. Since July 2014 the Rail Vehicle Systems division has benefited from a new logistics E N V I R O N M E N TA L P R O T E C T I O N 25 Planning ecological buildings worldwide The new production facilities opened in spring 2013 in facilities, and production waste water is treated and reItupeva (Brazil) and Westminster, Maryland (U.S.A.) are used for production. good examples of successful ecological building projects. The new plant in Westminster has a photovoltaic system The production plant in Itupeva uses skylights, which with a nominal output of around one megawatt, which means no artificial lighting is needed during the day, covers about a third of the plant’s electricity requirewhile air outlet shafts provide natural air conditioning. ments and avoids around 900 tonnes of CO2 each year. Despite the tropical climate no air conditioning is needed Waste water is treated in a closed circuit and fed back in the recreational building because a roof garden lowinto the production process. The plant received the LEED ers the indoor temperature by as much as five degrees certificate from the US Green Building Council (USGBC) in Celsius. It was also important to use local water resourcrecognition of its sustainable construction methods and es sparingly, so the plant has two deep wells. The green building technology spaces are irrigated with waste water from the sanitary www.usgbc.org/leed creasingly important over the next years – which is Environmentally friendly why we also give this issue high priority during the product portfolio development process. Knorr-Bremse puts great emphasis on environmental You can find further important examples for how compatibility and resource efficiency when new, innovaKnorr-Bremse products are designed to save electrictive technologies are under development. For example ity and fuel in our “Environmentally friendly product we do our utmost to reduce noise emissions and use portfolio“, which is downloadable from our website: ecologically acceptable materials wherever possible. www.knorr-bremse.de/environmentalportfolio We are convinced that climate change will mean that energy efficient products are going to become in26 KNORR-BREMSE IS WORKING TO ENHANCE AND HARMONIZE LEVELS OF LOGISTICS P E R F O R M A N C E A C R O S S T H E G R O U P. E N V I R O N M E N TA L P R O T E C T I O N 27 Expansion of remanufacturing Product examples Over the next few years Knorr-Bremse aims to massively expand its product remanufacturing activities. Rail Vehicle Systems: The new LL composite brake block Unlike repair and maintenance, remanufacturing is is used for so-called ’whisper brakes‘. LL stands for ‘Low not designed to prolong the operating life of a prodFriction, Low Noise’ – the blocks actually smooth the uct but rather to enable it to be reinstalled in another wheel during braking, reducing the track-related noise vehicle like an equivalent OE product. Remanufacturgenerated by freight trains by some 10 dB(A) – equivalent ing is the best form of recycling, as it involves the to a 50 per cent reduction in subjective noise. reuse of complete products rather than just raw The new, Generation 4 modular access system from IFE materials. is 20 per cent lighter than its predecessor and requires 25 per cent less energy. The use of new insulating materiAluminum components are a case in point: Remanuals also means that the door leaves have improved sound facturing does not involve the energy-intensive proand heat insulation properties. cess of melting down and pressure-molding a new aluminum casing. Compared with a newly-created product, remanufacturing can save up to 98 per cent Commercial Vehicle Systems: Our SL7, SM7, and of the materials required. Reassembly and testing of ST7 pneumatic disc brakes increase energy efficiency remanufactured components involves the same probecause they weigh considerably less than their precesses as for OE products, so customers receive the decessors. The environmentally-compatible chrome same statutory warranty as for a brand-new product. VI-free surface coatings avoid the use of toxic materials. Our compressor with clutch switches off the compresWe carry out ongoing life cycle analyses to assess the sor when full power is required, for example when the environmental advantages of remanufacturing. An vehicle is driving uphill or overtaking. During overrun, analysis of emissions from remanufacturing our EAC 1 for example when the vehicle is going downhill, the electronic air treatment system revealed that 13.7 kisystem switches the compressor on again. This enables lograms of CO2 were saved compared with the procompressed air to be generated using the excess energy duction process for a new unit. In 2013 we created a and also helps to slow the vehicle without any wear and separate remanufacturing department within the tear. Savings of up 1,300 liters of fuel per year are possible. Knorr-Bremse Commercial Vehicle Systems division. With over 2,000 return deliveries being processed by our Core Management Program every year, we can ensure the availability of legacy parts. More than Product examples 54,000 remanufactured units are sold every year. During the year under review Knorr-Bremse further Rail Vehicle Systems: LEADER helps locomotive engiexpanded its remanufacturing portfolio: The remanuneers develop a style of driving that saves energy, reducfactured version of our oil separation cartridge offers es wear and at the same time brings the train safely and customers an energy-saving and resource-efficient punctually to its destination. The system, which has been alternative to the equivalent new product and one demonstrated to reduce energy consumption by up to that is appropriate to an older vehicle’s current market 12 per cent , received a 2014 innovation award from ‘Privatvalue. Used for drying and cleaning compressed air, bahn‘ magazine in the “Energy and Environment“ category. the remanufactured OSC functions exactly like a new one. Commercial Vehicle Systems: Tire pressure and temperature monitoring systems alert the driver if the presIn 2014 our subsidiary Bendix in Huntington, USA insure drops below a certain level or the temperature in the vested US$ 3.2 million in expanding its remanufacturtire becomes excessively high. This increases safety and ing capabilities. In the Bendix Brake Shoe Reprevents unnecessary fuel consumption as a result of manufacturing Center the entire remanufacturing underinflated tires. process can be carried out on several million brake shoes for commercial vehicles. 28 C O M M U N I C AT I O N O N P R O G R E S S R E P O R T KNORR-BREMSE GROUP 2014 K N O R R B R E M S E D E V E LO P S P D O D U C T S T H AT O F F E R M A X I M U M C U S T O M E R B E N E F I T S A N D AT T H E S A M E T I M E P R O M O T E S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y. E N V I R O N M E N TA L P R O T E C T I O N 29 Sustainable product life cycle Province high up in the Peruvian Andes. For many Our aim is to continuously improve our products and years now the glacier has been retreating and as a reduce their environmental footprint to a minimum. result the livelihoods of small farmers in the region To do this we carry out life cycle assessments to exare under threat. In order to tackle this problem, irriamine the environmental impact of selected prodgation systems were installed with the help of CARE ucts during their entire life from production to final and Global Care. Unlike traditional irrigation systems disposal. By analyzing the entire value chain we can using earth channels, the new systems do not ingather valuable data on the use of materials and volve water loss through seepage and are therefore resources during production and also environmental able to irrigate larger areas. This supports agricultural compatibility during a product’s service life. production and enables more nutritious crops to be raised. The risk of harvest failure during periods of We are currently piloting LCA analyses on five proddrought is thereby considerably reduced. The local ucts, including the pneumatic disc brake and a conpopulation is also given training in sparing use of the trol valve. Analysis includes “Product Carbon Footirrigation systems, adaptation to climate change and prints” (PCFs), which examine CO2 emissions across a its impact on land use. product’s entire life cycle. The results are being used to develop an internal standard for future LCA analyAfforestation of 2,700 hectares of land is helping to sis of our products. mitigate the impact of climate change on the region. By planting trees, soil erosion can be reduced and the In the Rail Vehicle System division we have ingroundwater protected. Awareness-raising camcorporated further measures into our ECO Design paigns are also being implemented in surrounding project. This involves examining our products to villages in order to train local government represenidentify banned or restricted materials and carrying tatives and village leaders in climate change and its out recycling analyses. As a basis we use our expandconsequences. ed ECO Design database, which includes information on REACH (EU system for Registration, Evaluation, Further information and examples of projects can be Authorization and Restriction of Chemicals), materifound on the Internet at als use and recyclability. This ensures that banned or www.global-care.knorr-bremse.com. restricted materials do not find their way into our products at any stage. With the help of the database we also aim to incorporate a new design standard for sustainability into the management system of the Rail Vehicle Systems division. Social contribution of Knorr-Bremse Global Care The charitable organization Knorr-Bremse Global Care funds projects that have a far-reaching impact in the fields of education and social infrastructure. The organization takes a holistic and sustainable approach to its aid projects that includes educating people and raising awareness of environmental issues. One example is the project being run in collaboration with CARE in Peru to support small-scale farmers in adapting to climate change. The Huayatapallana Glacier is the main source of water for Huancayo 30 C O L L A B O R AT I O N W I T H I N K N O R R B R E M S E I S B A S E D O N T H E P R I N C I P L E O F FA I R N E S S . I N T E R N A L C O N T R O L S Y S T E M S E N S U R E B E H AV I O R T H AT I S I N C O M P L I A N C E W I T H R E G U L AT I O N S . ANTI-CORRUPTION 31 6/ Anti-corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Integrity and responsible behavior in our dealings During the period under review no financial or with business partners and our own employees are non-financial penalties were imposed because of fundamental values that underpin everything we do non-compliance with current statutory requirements as a company. Knorr-Bremse complies with the releand directives. vant legislation and regulations as a matter of course, and is categorically opposed to all forms of corruption, including extortion, bribery and any illegal or Further guidelines immoral behavior. Other Group-wide and regional guidelines further develop the basic principles laid down in the Code of Conduct. These include quality management guideAnti-corruption and compliance lines for purchasing and internal guidelines on The Knorr-Bremse Code of Conduct expressly forbids acceptance of gifts. corruption, including bribery and extortion, and also stipulates other ethical policies. It serves as a standard for our employees and is intended to promote Internal audits integrity and responsible conduct. The internal audit department supports the Executive Board in its monitoring function by carrying out If corruption is to be prevented from the outset, it is independent, objective audits aimed at improving crucial for the principles laid down in the Code of business processes and identifying possible cases of Conduct to be communicated transparently and efcorruption. fectively to the workforce and appropriate training provided. Every employee needs to be clear about what we mean by responsible conduct and about Risk management the rules we have set ourselves. To achieve this, we The Group has a global planning, reporting and conprovide continuous staff training on the Code of trolling system. In addition there is a standardized Conduct – at regional company events, training sessystem of risk management reporting at the highest sions and information events. New employees are level. Risk reports are regularly discussed by the mangiven a copy of the Code of Conduct when they join agement of the two divisions and the Group Executhe company. We are currently working on additional tive Board. Our controlling system for the early idencommunication and training measures, including an tification and correction of potential irregularities has online training tool for compliance issues. And we are proved to be extremely reliable. also in the process of developing a systematic, Group-wide monitoring and reporting system for compliance infringements. 32 SUMMARY 33 7/ Summary of implementation of the ten Global Compact principles Principle Knorr-Bremse guidelines Measures Achievements and systems Principle 1: Knorr-Bremse Code of ConIncorporation of the principles Internal audits monitor knowSupporting human rights duct (page 11) of the UN Global Compact ledge and communication of into company purchasing Code of Conduct (page 11) Principle 2: Safety, health and environguidelines (page 12) Preventing abuses of human mental policy More than 55% of suppliers to rights (page 12f., 21) Implementation and evaluthe Commercial Vehicle Sysation of self-assessments by tems division have signed the Principle 3: Corporate Responsibility suppliers to the Rail Vehicle revised purchasing guideline Upholding freedom of guidelines (page 8f.) Systems division (page 12) (page 12) association UITP-Charta for sustainable Co-founder of the Railsponsi240 self-declarations by Principle 4: development ble initiative aimed at promotsuppliers in the Rail Vehicle Eliminating all forms of forced ing sustainability in the global Systems division (page 12) and compulsory labor rail industry (page 12) Principle 5: Standards for working Abolishing child labor conditions Principle 6: Knorr-Bremse Code of Con“Job assessment“ project for Equal pay at German sites Eliminating discrimination duct (page 11) standard definition of jobs confirmed by award of and job descriptions throughLogib-D certificate (page 17) Equality of opportunity and out the Group (page 16) equal treatment of employees Proportion of severely disirrespective of the color of Promoting supra-regional abled employees in Germany their skin, their national or exchange, implementation of reaches 4.9% (page 17) social origin, disability, sexual intercultural training courses, orientation, political or relilanguage courses and periods gious beliefs, gender or age of residence abroad (page 17) Use of regional employees and managers (page 17) “mentorING“ program for promoting women on science/ technical university courses (page 17) Training programs on the subject of women in management positions (Bendix) (page 17) 34 C O M M U N I C AT I O N O N P R O G R E S S R E P O R T KNORR-BREMSE GROUP 2014 Principle Knorr-Bremse guidelines Measures Achievements and systems Principle 7: Knorr-Bremse Code of Certification of sites according Specific CO2 emissions Precautionary approach to Conduct (page 11) to ISO 14001 environmental reduced by 20% since 2009 environmental protection management standard (page (page 22) Climate protection strategy 21) Principle 8: with Group-wide targets for Energy efficiency increased by Initiatives to promote greater 2020 (page 22) ECCO2 project (page 23) 20% since 2009 (page 22) environmental responsibility Safety and health and enviIntroduction of an energy 40 production sites achieved ronmental policy (page 12f., management system in comISO 14001 certification (page page 21) pliance with ISO 50001 at the 21) Group’s most energy-intensive Group-wide environmental German sites in Munich, sites (page 22) management system at Aldersbach, Berlin and production and service sites “Green IT“ for reducing energy Schwieberdingen prepared (page 21) requirements of IT systems for ISO 50001 certification (page 23) (page 22) Expansion of remanufacturing (page 27f.) Guideline for design and planning of sites and buildings, incorporating extensive environmental criteria (S. 24f.) Principle 9: Knorr-Bremse Code of Implementation of life cycle Life cycle assessments carried Encouraging the developConduct (page 11) assessments and materiality out for products (page 29) ment and diffusion of environanalyses to evaluate environKnorr-Bremse offers products Further development of envimentally friendly technologies mental and climate impact of and systems tailored to ronmentally friendly product products and systems (page market requirements that portfolio (page 25ff.) 22, page 29) contribute towards making mobility viable, safer and CR as part of the approval promore environmentally friendly cess for product innovations in the future. (page 25ff.) “ECO-Design“ in the Rail Vehicle Systems division for examining products and developing a design standards for sustainability (page 29) Principle 10: Knorr-Bremse Code of Employee training in Code of No compliance infringements Working against corruption Conduct (page 11) Conduct (page 31) reported during period under review (page 31) Development of an online training tool on the subject of corruption (page 31) Knorr-Bremse AG Corporate Responsibility Moosacher Straße 80 80809 München Deutschland Tel: +49 89 3547-1252 E-Mail: cr@knorr-bremse.com WWW.KNORR-BREMSE.COM
