Annual Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2014 Corporate Social Responsibility Global Compact Communicating on Progress A /S Uglands Rederi has traditionally had and has a strong focus on sustainable business practice. Safety has Compact is a strategic policy initiative for businesses that are committed to aligning their operations and strategies always been the number one priority, but with ten universally accepted principles other key elements such as environmental in the areas of human rights, labour, the and social impact as a consequence of environment and anti-corruption. This conducting our business have received has been integrated as part of the increased focus. Knowing that company A/S Uglands Rederi company policy and activities affect society in many ways, the corporate culture. and that the company is affected by As member of this initiative an annual its surroundings, it is important for “Communication on Progress” is required, A/S Uglands Rederi to contribute to and has been submitted, which is creating and maintaining a positive and available on the Global Compact website. sustainable shipping environment. This is a public disclosure to stakeholders As a consequence of the above, on progress made in implementing the A/S Uglands Rederi joined the UN Global ten principles. Compact during 2012. The UN Global THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT TEN PRINCIPLES HUMAN RIGHTS (GRI Reference) Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of interG4-HR 3, 5 nationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2 Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human G4-HR 3, 5 rights abuses. LABOUR STANDARDS Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the G4-10, 11 effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; G4-LA 1 Principle 4 Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced G4-HR 3, 4 and compulsory labour; Principle 5 Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour: G4-HR 3, 4 Principle 6 Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in G4-10, 11 respect of employment and occupation. G4-LA 1, G4-HR 3 ENVIRONMENT Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8 Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater G4-EN-3, 6, 8, 15*, environmental responsibility; and 19*, 21*, 23, 24 Principle 9 Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, G4-SO 3 including extortion and bribery. Note: The GRI references above are standard disclosures and core elements only. * Partly reported. Implementation of the UN Global Compact ten principles 2014 T he most important corporate social engagement is to provide a safe, sustainable and long term business and be delivered early March 2015. The PSV Juania of the SALT 100 design has been in operation since the spring of 2014, of environmentally friendly technologies. UR through policy and procedures strives not to contribute to any kind of forced work environment for the employees, showing favourable fuel economy and labour, child labour and discrimination business partners and the local operational flexibility. In additon the PSV in respect of employment, occupation, community. A/S Uglands Rederi (UR) Juanita was awareded the Support Vessel gender, age and culture. supports several initiatives in various of the Year 2015 by the Offshroe Support UR has had procedures and guidelines communities, believing that social Journal. The company has continued in place related to averting corruption engagement in communities where focus on eco-friendly design and has in through gifts and other more specific business is conducted, contributes addition to the above, 4 supra maz bulk office related subjects. Anti-corruption to creating shared value for both the carriers on order form Japanse yard. efforts continue to be a point of focus company and society as a whole. UR is UR supports and respects the where training and reporting have been engaged in different social activities both protection of internationally proclaimed intensified in line with the anti-corruption in Norway and in the Philippines, seeking human rights. The steps taken in 2012 procedure. The said procedure has been to continually renew and improve its to improve performance in this area by implemented, strengthening the existing approach to the local community. renewing and expanding the “supplier routines, enabling an enhanced and In 2014, in accordance with ISO declaration” (a questionnaire to systematical stance against corruption. standards, efforts to ensure continuous suppliers related to Quality, Environment, Employees are trained in accordance improvement in safety and environmental Social Responsibility, Transparency with recommendations from UNODC, performance were made. Continued and Health & Safety). The supplier Global Compact and The Norwegian focus on reducing energy consumption declaration provides guidance when Shipowners' Association. UR is still and seeking environmentally friendly choosing suppliers identifying those considering membership in organizations technologies are important, both for the that support a precautionary approach and networks where corruption can be company and its stakeholders. to environmental and social challenges, combated together with other shipping One newbuilding eco-design supramax undertake initiatives to promote greater companies and organizations at a higher bulk carrier was delivered and has been environmental responsibility, and level. in operation since, and a second will encourage the development and diffusion Global Reporting Initiative standards and voluntary initiatives; accordingly. For UR the following five demonstrate organizational commitment stakeholders have been identified and to sustainable development; and indirectly engaged; compare organizational performance over time. Owner UR is through its improvement cycle Employees continuously seeking best practice. In this Clients/Main Suppliers G lobal Reporting Initiative, as the most widely applied standard for reporting on the ten principles of Global Compact, respect, UR has performed a materiality analysis in order to identify aspects that have the most material value for the Partners/Financial Institutions Local Community(ies) has been chosen as the company’s company. Improvement initiatives can The above process was an agenda item reporting framework. The objective of the therefore be focused on these aspects. A and confirmed in the latest Management Global Reporting Initiative is to create a materiality analysis can be described as Review, a key stone part of the annual platform where the reported information a CSR checklist. It enables the company improvement cycle. is transparent, reliable, comparable to perform a self-evaluation as well as The company has engaged the five and precise. an evaluation by external stakeholders: stakeholders as follows; The Global Reporting Initiative’s (GRI) owner, employees, clients/main suppliers, vision is that disclosure on economic, partners/financial and insurance Owner: The Owner participated in the environmental, and social performance institutions, local community(ies). decision to become a UN Global Compact is as commonplace and comparable as To facilitate the materiality analysis, company and to report in line with GRI. financial reporting, and important to stakeholders were identified. The Owner is also part of the board of organizational success. “Stakeholder” is a term for those parties directors. Sustainability reports based on the GRI that are affected by or affect the company. framework can be used to benchmark They may also have constructive Employees: As a result of an external organizational performance with respect feedback/criticism worthwhile for the audit, an internal working environment to laws, norms, codes, performance company to listen to and take action questionnaire amongst the employees was recommended and executed entity. General reference is made to the These three aspects will then be reported during May 2013. In addition, through JJUC.no home page. Through sponsor in the GRI 4 report as core aspects. The Department Management review, meetings and participation, opinions aspects are of material value both for the Master review and Management review and viewpoints are exchanged. In company and society at large and as such processes employees are able to voice addition, as a participant company are viewed without boundaries’. As this their opinions and suggest improvements. in “Samfunnsansvar på Agder” the will be the first annual report in line with company has presented its CSR work and GR 4 and it is the first materiality analysis, Clients/Main Suppliers: Clients are received constructive feedback both pro’s the results are considered to give valid requested and encouraged to give and con’s. Samfunnsansvar på Agder guidance. customer satisfaction feedback in line represents a number of local companies with ISO 9001. In addition, offshore of varying sizes and products, ensuring a The AS Uglands Rederi Global Reporting related tenders require the companies’ broad perspective. Initiative report is structured as a matrix CSR status to be given. The company’s naming the GRI element/indicator and main suppliers have also been requested Work with respect to reengagement of referenceing the documents and page to read and return the supplier the above has commenced. A specific where relevant information is publicly declaration signed and/or commented. questionnaire is under development and noted. When not referenced, specific 80% of said suppliers have responded. planned complete and ready for issue information may be noted. This is the to the stakeholders during the second company’s second GRI report, however Partners: Cooperating Partners such half of 2015. Their response will facilitate the first GRI 4 version. For further as financial institutions, insurers and and form the basis for a new materiality information and details, please review partners in ownership are well informed analysis for 1\2016. This is in line with the company’s home page www.jjuc.no. of the company’s CSR activities and have previously reported schedule and the the opportunity to voice their opinions situation will be updated in the 2015 GRI This report has not ben subjected and thoughts in regular meetings and report. to verification by an external body other formal and informal points of nor submitted specifically to GRI for contact. In addition, they are receivers of The last and still valid materiality verification purposes. The report is made the annual report and are through this analysis for both the internal company and published in an honest and open informed of the company’s CSR position and stakeholder highlighted three manner representing the status of CSR and work. aspects that warrant the company’s focus and the Global Compact – GRI status for as follows: 2014. Local Community: UR has a long reputation in supporting and working Environmental work interactive with the local community. Anti-Corruption work For full report and further details and The term “JJ Ugland Companies” has Supply chain with a special focus on information, pelase view the company often been used as the sponsoring labour conditions homepage www.jjuc.no GRI Element / Indicator Page/Reference (Annual report/other) Indicator PROFILE Strategy and Analysis G4-1 Statement from the most senior decision maker of the Annual Report page 5 organization Letter-of-Commitment G4-2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities 3, 4 Annual Report page 5, 6, 8-14 Organizational Profile G4-3 Name of the organization A/S Uglands Rederi G4-4 Primary brands, products, and/or services Shipowner, management chartering and operations, Annual Report page 6, 8-14 G4-5 Location of organization’s headquarters Grimstad, Norway G4-6 Report the number of countries where the organization Norway, Brazil, the Philippines and operates, and names of countries where either the Canada (worldwide) organization has significant operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability topics covered in the report. G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form Family owned (Note 11, Annual Report) G4-8 Report the markets served (including geographic Annual Report, Note 7 and page 6, 9, breakdown, sectors served, and types of customers and 11 & 14. beneficiaries). G4-9 A. Report the scale of the organization, including: Annual Report page 6, 8-14, 15-17 Total number of employees Note 7, Note 11 Total number of operations Net sales (for private sector organizations) or net revenues (for public sector organizations) Total capitalization broken down in terms of debt and equity (for private sector organizations) Quantity of products or services provided G4-10 A. Report the total number of employees by Annual Report page 10 & 13 employment contract and gender. B. Report the total number of permanent employees by employment type and gender. C. Report the total workforce by employees and supervised workers and by gender. D. Report the total workforce by region and gender. E. Report whether a substantial portion of the organization’s work is performed by workers who are legally recognized as self-employed, or by individuals other than employees or supervised workers, including employees and supervised employees of contractors. F. Report any significant variations in employment numbers (such as seasonal variations in employment in the tourism or agricultural industries). G4-11 Report the percentage of total employees covered by Labour collective bargaining agreements. G4-12 Describe the organization’s supply chain. 2, Supplier Declaration G4-13 Report any significant changes during the reporting Nothing to report period regarding the organization’s size, structure, ownership, or its supply chain, including: Changes in the location of, or changes in, operations, including facility openings, closings, and expansions Changes in the share capital structure and other capital formation, maintenance, and alteration operations (for private sector organizations) Changes in the location of suppliers, the structure of the supply chain, or in relationships with suppliers, including selection and termination Commitments to External Initiatives G4-14 Report whether and how the precautionary approach or Company Policies principle is addressed by the organization. Ref. annual improvement circles. Accessible in manual for all employees. G4-15 List externally developed economic, environmental and Global Compact-GRI-ISO9000social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which ISO14000-OHSAS18001 the organization subscribes or which it endorses. G4-16 List memberships of associations (such as industry The Norwegian Shipowner’s associations) and national or international advocacy Association (NSA), Nordisk Defence organizations in which the organization: Club (Nordisk) Holds a position on the governance body Participates in projects or committees Provides substantive funding beyond routine membership dues Views membershipas strategic G4-17 A. List all entities included in the organization’s Annual Report, Note 1 & 5 consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents. B. Report whether any entity included in the organization’s consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents is not covered by the report. G4-18 A. Explain the process for defining the report content 3 and the Aspect Boundaries. B. Explain how the organization has implemented the Reporting Principles for Defining Report Content. G4-19 List all the material Aspects identified in the process for 4 defining report content. G4-20 For each material Aspect, report the Aspect Boundary 4 within the organization, as follows: Report whether the Aspect is material within the organization If the Aspect is not material for all entities within the organization (as described in G4-17), select one of the following two approaches and report either: The list of entities or groups of entities included in G417 for which the Aspect is not material or The list of entities or groups of entities included in G417 for which the Aspects is material Report any specific limitation regarding the Aspect Boundary within the organization G4-21 For each material Aspect, report the Aspect Boundary 4 outside the organization, as follows: Report whether the Aspect is material outside of the organization If the Aspect is material outside of the organization, identify the entities, groups of entities or elements for which the Aspect is material. In addition, describe the geographical location where the Aspect is material for the entities identified Report any specific limitation regarding the Aspect Boundary outside the organization G4-22 Report the effect of any restatements of information GRI G4 Core provided in previous reports, and the reasons for such restatements. G4-23 Report significant changes from previous reporting GRI G4 Core periods in the Scope and Aspect Boundaries. Stakeholder Engagement G4-24 Provide a list of stakeholder groups engaged by the 3 organization. G4-25 Report the basis for identification and selection of 3 stakeholders with whom to engage. G4-26 Report the organization’s approach to stakeholder 3 engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder group, and an indication of whether any of the engagement was undertaken specifically as part of the report preparation process. G4-27 Report key topics and concerns that have been raised 3 through stakeholder engagement, and how the organization has responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting. Report the stakeholder groups that raised each of the key topics and concerns. Report Profile G4-28 Reporting period (such as fiscal or calendar year) for Calendar/fiscal year information provided. G4-29 Date of most recent previous report (if any). 2013 G4-30 Reporting cycle (such as annual, biennial). Annual G4-31 Provide the contact point for questions regarding the Deputy Managing Director Arnt Olaf report or its contents. Knutsen G4-32 A. Report the ‘in accordance’ option the organization Annual Corporate Social Report 2014 has chosen. B. Report the GRI Content Index for the chosen option (see tables below). C. Report the reference to the External Assurance Report, if the report has been externally assured. GRI recommends the use of external assurance but it is not a requirement to be ‘in accordance’ with the Guidelines. G4-33 A. Report the organization’s policy and current practice 4 with regard to seeking external assurance for the report. B. If not included in the assurance report accompanying the sustainability report, report the scope and basis of any external assurance provided. C. Report the relationship between the organization and the assurance providers. D. Report whether the highest governance body or senior executives are involved in seeking assurance for the organization’s sustainability report. Governance G4-34 Report the governance structure of the organization, About us including committees of the highest governance body. Identify any committees responsible for decisionmaking on economic, environmental and social impacts. Ethics and Integrity G4-56 Describe the organization’s values, principles, standards Company Policies and norms of behavior such as codes of conduct and codes of ethics. Specific Standard Disclosures G4-DMA A. Report why the Aspect is material. Report the 3 impacts that make this Aspect material. B. Report how the organization manages the material Aspect or its impacts. C. Report the evaluation of the management approach, including: The mechanisms for evaluating the effectiveness of the management approach The results of the evaluation of the management approach Any related adjustments to the management approach The Environment G4-EN3 ENERGY CONSUMPTION WITHIN THE ORGANIZATION Environmental Report 2014 A. Report total fuel consumption from non-renewable sources in joules or multiples, including fuel types used. B. Report total fuel consumption from renewable fuel sources in joules or multiples, including fuel types used. C. Report in joules, watt-hours or multiples, the total: Electricity consumption Heating consumption Cooling consumption Steam consumption D. Report in joules, watt-hours or multiples, the total: Electricity sold Heating sold Cooling sold Steam sold E. Report total energy consumption in joules or multiples. F. Report standards, methodologies, and assumptions used. G. Report the source of the conversion factors used. G4-EN6 REDUCTION OF ENERGY CONSUMPTION Environmental Report 2014 A. Report the amount of reductions in energy consumption achieved as a direct result of conservation and efficiency initiatives, in joules or multiples. B. Report the types of energy included in the reductions: fuel, electricity, heating, cooling, and steam. C. Report the basis for calculating reductions in energy consumption such as base year or baseline, and the rationale for choosing it. D. Report standards, methodologies, and assumptions used. G4-EN8 SIGNIFICANT INDIRECT ECONOMIC IMPACTS, Environmental Report 2014 INCLUDING THE EXTENT OF IMPACTS A. Report examples of the significant identified positive and negative indirect economic impacts the organization has. These may include: Changing the productivity of organizations, sectors, or the whole economy Economic development in areas of high poverty Economic impact of improving or deteriorating social or environmental conditions Availability of products and services for those on low incomes Enhancing skills and knowledge amongst a professional community or in a geographical region Jobs supported in the supply chain or distribution chain Stimulating, enabling, or limiting foreign direct investment Economic impact of change in location of operations or activities Economic impact of the use of products and services B. Report the significance of the impacts in the context of external benchmarks and stakeholder priorities, such as national and international standards, protocols, and policy agendas. G4-EN15 DIRECT GREENHOUSE GAS (GHG) EMISSIONS (SCOPE 1) Environmental Report 2014 A. Report gross direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions in metric tons of CO2 equivalent, independent of any GHG trades, such as purchases, sales, or transfers of offsets or allowances. B. Report gases included in the calculation (whether CO2, CH4, N2O, HFCs, PFCs, SF6, NF3, or all). C. Report biogenic CO2 emissions in metric tons of CO2 equivalent separately from the gross direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions. D. Report the chosen base year, the rationale for choosing the base year, emissions in the base year, and the context for any significant changes in emissions that triggered recalculations of base year emissions. E. Report standards, methodologies, and assumptions used. F. Report the source of the emission factors used and the global warming potential (GWP) rates used or a reference to the GWP source. G. Report the chosen consolidation approach for emissions (equity share, financial control, operational control). G4-EN19 REDUCTION OF GREENHOUSE GAS (GHG) EMISSIONS Environmental Report 2014 A. Report the amount of GHG emissions reductions achieved as a direct result of initiatives to reduce emissions, in metric tons of CO2 equivalent. B. Report gases included in the calculation (whether CO2, CH4, N2O, HFCs, PFCs, SF6, NF3, or all). C. Report the chosen base year or baseline and the rationale for choosing it. d. Report standards, methodologies, and assumptions used. E. Report whether the reductions in GHG emissions occurred in direct (Scope 1), energy indirect (Scope 2), other indirect (Scope 3) emissions. G4-EN21 NOX, SOX, AND OTHER SIGNIFICANT AIR EMISSIONS Environmental Report 2014 A. Report the amount of significant air emissions, in kilograms or multiples for each of the following: NOX SOX Persistent organic pollutants (POP) Volatile organic compounds (VOC) Hazardous air pollutants (HAP) Particulate matter (PM) Other standard categories of air emissions identified in relevant regulations B. Report standards, methodologies, and assumptions used. C. Report the source of the emission factors used. G4-EN23 TOTAL WEIGHT OF WASTE BY TYPE AND DISPOSAL Environmental Report 2014 METHOD A. Report the total weight of hazardous and nonhazardous waste, by the following disposal methods: Reuse Recycling Composting Recovery, including energy recovery Incineration (mass burn) Deep well injection Landfill On-site storage Other (to be specified by the organization) B. Report how the waste disposal method has been determined: Disposed of directly by the organization or otherwise directly confirmed Information provided by the waste disposal contractor Organizational defaults of the waste disposal contractor G4-EN24 TOTAL NUMBER AND VOLUME OF SIGNIFICANT SPILLS Environmental Report 2014 A. Report the total number and total volume of recorded significant spills. B. For spills that were reported in the organization’s financial statements, report the additional following information for each such spill: Location of spill Volume of spill Material of spill, categorized by: Oil spills (soil or water surfaces) Fuel spills (soil or water surfaces) Spills of wastes (soil or water surfaces) Spills of chemicals (mostly soil or water surfaces) Other (to be specified by the organization) C. Report the impacts of significant spills. Employment G4-LA1 TOTAL NUMBER AND RATES OF NEW EMPLOYEE HIRES Labour AND EMPLOYEE TURNOVER BY AGE GROUP, GENDER AND REGION A. Report the total number and rate of new employee hires during the reporting period, by age group, gender and region. B. Report the total number and rate of employee turnover during the reporting period, by age group, gender and region. Human Rights G4-HR3 TOTAL NUMBER OF INCIDENTS OF DISCRIMINATION AND CORRECTIVE ACTIONS TAKEN A. Report the total number of incidents of discrimination during the reporting period. B. Report the status of the incidents and the actions taken with reference to the following: Incident reviewed by the organization None reported incidents Remediation plans being implemented Remediation plans have been implemented and results reviewed through routine internal management review processes Incident no longer subject to action G4-HR4 OPERATIONS AND SUPPLIERS IDENTIFIED IN WHICH 2, Supplier Declaration THE RIGHT TO EXERCISE FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND COLLECTIVE BARGAINING MAY BE VIOLATED OR AT SIGNIFICANT RISK, AND MEASURES TAKEN TO SUPPORT THESE RIGHTS A. Report operations and suppliers in which employee rights to exercise freedom of association or collective bargaining may be violated or at significant risk either in terms of: Type of operation (such as manufacturing plant) and supplier Countries or geographical areas with operations and suppliers considered at risk B. Report measures taken by the organization in the reporting period intended to support rights to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining. G4-HR5 OPERATIONS AND SUPPLIERS IDENTIFIED AS HAVING 2, Supplier Declaration SIGNIFICANT RISK FOR INCIDENTS OF CHILD LABOR, AND MEASURES TAKEN TO CONTRIBUTE TO THE EFFECTIVE ABOLITION OF CHILD LABOR A. Report operations and suppliers considered to have significant risk for incidents of: Child labor Young workers exposed to hazardous work B. Report operations and suppliers considered to have significant risk for incidents of child labor either in terms of: Type of operation (such as manufacturing plant) and supplier Countries or geographical areas with operations and suppliers considered at risk C. Report measures taken by the organization in the reporting period intended to contribute to the effective abolition of child labor. Society G4-SO3 TOTAL NUMBER AND PERCENTAGE OF OPERATIONS 2, Anti Corruption ASSESSED FOR RISKS RELATED TO CORRUPTION AND THE SIGNIFICANT RISKS IDENTIFIED A. Report the total number and percentage of operations assessed for risks related to corruption. B. Report the significant risks related to corruption identified through the risk assessment.
