Designing the future of journey, The Earth is in our mind, And we are considering what to do for it. We are working for the better future and sustainable world. G4-18, G4-23, G4-28, G4-29, G4-30, G4-31 ABOUT THE REPORT We have been transparently sharing with our stakeholders the In the 2014 reporting period, we have reviewed the Materiality social, economic and environmental impacts of our Matrix we have constituted in 2012 based on the Sustainability operations, alongside our managerial approach in related Survey Study and GRI Standard at workshops where relevant issues, realized performance results, and targets, through our department representatives came together. Evaluating the sustainability reports, since 2012. In this report, we present to data conveyed by stakeholders during one on one meetings our stakeholders’ views our sustainability performance with representatives and that acquired through standards and between 01.01.2014 and 31.12.2014. systems implemented within Brisa alongside this practice, we finalized the Materiality Matrix. We have built the roof for our As of this reporting period, we will be preparing our report content in accordance with our priority issues revealed Sustainability Report in accordance with the requirements of in result of this study. GRI G4 Standard. For this reason, we have conducted the preliminary preparations in advance of the reporting study by Presenting our sustainability performance to our stakeholders taking into consideration GRI G4 requirements. In the 2014 in a transparent and accountable manner is of great reporting period, in contradistinction to the previous reporting importance to us. Stakeholder views are among the most period, we have extended our scope by receiving independent important elements that assist us in this respect. You can external audits in the issues of the breakdown of the top communicate your feedbacks about our report at management, employees, recruited and leaving employees sustainability@brisa.com.tr, in order to consistently improve included in the report by age, gender, status and contract type. our reporting performance. CONTENTS 5 MESSAGE FROM THE CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD 6-7 MESSAGE FROM THE CEO 8-9 MESSAGES FROM SUSTAINABILITY WORK GROUPS 10-15 ABOUT BRİSA 16-26 SUSTAINABILITY JOURNEY 17 Corporate Governance Structure 21 Sustainability Management 27-37 VALUE CHAIN 28 Customer Health and Safety during Product Lifecycle 30 Responsible Value Chain Practices 38-44 INNOVATION AND CORPORATE ENTREPRENEURSHIP 40 Brisa Innovation Portal 41 Idea Competition 45-55 ENVIRONMENTAL APPROACH 47 Energy and Emission Management 49 Efficient Use of Natural Resources and Less Waste 51 Respecting for Biodiversity 52 Environment Friendly Products and Services 56-67 WORK LIFE 58 Occupational Health and Safety Approach 61 Development Journey 65 Employee Rights 68-74 SOCIETY RELATIONS 69 Contribution to Traffic Safety 70 Contribution to Sectoral Practices 71 Contribution to Education and Sports 5 MESSAGE FROM THE CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD Our Chairman of the Board Güler Sabancı's vision that lights the way for our company: “As Sabancı Group, we are committed to our growth targets focused on a sustainable world. In Turkey and in all our operational geography, we work to do better every day with the awareness of our social and environmental responsibilities towards the community we live in.” BRİSA 2014 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT > MESSAGE FROM THE CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD 6 G4-1 MESSAGE FROM THE CEO Dear Esteemed Stakeholders, HAKAN BAYMAN We regard our sustainability understanding, which we treat with all its CEO economic, environmental and social dimensions, as an inseparable part of our corporate identity. We are sharing with you our third sustainability report, which we have published in accordance with Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) principles, covering our performance in related fields. In 2014, the global tyre market was realized as 1,7 billion pieces, with a 4,5% growth on the basis of pcs as against 2013, thereby recording a total of 28% growth in the last 5 years. As for the Turkish tyre market, there was 1,5% shrinkage in 2014 as against the previous year. As Brisa, in spite of the shrinkage in the Turkish market, we have increased our Domestic Tyre sales by 5% in pieces, as against 2013, carrying it to the level of 6,4 million pieces. In 2014, we have increased our sales by 14%, net profit by 29% and we raised our total annual net sales revenue to the level of 1.693 million TL. We are ranked 84th in the Fortune 500 Turkey’s Largest Companies listing, 54th in ISO 500 list identifying the largest industrial institutions of Turkey, and 39th in “Turkey’s Most Valuable Brands Survey” conducted by the international Brand Rating Institution Brand Finance, with a brand value of 133 million US dollars. BRİSA 2014 SUSTAINABILITY In 2014, with our “Brisa Strategy House” project, we were deemed worthy of REPORT the “Balanced Scorecard Hall of Fame for Executing Strategy” award, known > MESSAGE FROM in the international business world as the “Oscar of Strategy Management”, THE CEO endowed by Palladium Group, one of the world’s leading strategy and technology consultancy, training and licensing institutions. 7 We make a tremendous effort to disseminate innovation and In 2014, we have provided a total of 9.134 hours of training to 2.675 G4-1 corporate entrepreneurship practices within the body of Brisa, we employees through Brisa MEC, 23.856 hours to 3.592 people through make use of the results we achieve to simplify our customers’ Brisa Academy, and 1.566 hours to 783 employees through our lives. We take justified pride in having won the “Customer Occupational Safety Simulation Room practice. With the help of our Oriented Service Innovation Award” at the Turkish Innovation innovation and corporate entrepreneurship practices, our employees have produced 300 ideas during the year. Week, and “National Innovation Champion” award at the European Business World Awards competition as a result of this Within the framework of Equality at Work and with the awareness of understanding, in 2014. our social responsibility, we care about the participation of women in business life. We believe equality of opportunity to be at the basis of Since 1974 when our company was established, we have made social sustainability and we produce projects for the equal and active approximately 920 million US dollars of investment. We started participation of women in business life. In the year 2014, we have realizing the initial investment worth 300 million dollars at our increased the number of our female employees by 37% as against the Aksaray plant which we plan to engage in 2018. We aim to add an previous year. annual 4,2 million pcs to our production capacity and increase our total production capacity by 30% through our new facility. With the awareness that our responsibility is for the benefit of all our stakeholders, we research, innovate, invest, work and produce for the An important component of our sustainability understanding is human. We have implemented several practices in 2014 in the field of environmental sustainability. With the awareness of the social sustainability, which is an important component of our environmental impacts of our operations, we desire to improve the sustainability understanding. We made an effort to enhance the social performance results we achieve, with each passing period. In 2014, benefit we generate through practices and projects we realized. We we reduced our carbon emission by 12,5% as against 2005; and we mounted reflectors free of charge on a total of 4.010 trailers in 13 increased our energy savings twelvefold compared to 2008. We provinces for farmers and we also provided productive farming reduced our well water consumption by 52% as against 2008. In training to 7.500 farmers across Turkey. As part of the Yola Sağlam comparison to 2010, our domestic nonhazardous waste was reduced çık project, we have provided consultancy services for 2.281 heavy by 36%. vehicle and long distance drivers. Brisapor team, who added new ones to our successes in the field of sports, won 138 medals during We maintain our leading position in the sector by reflecting our the year 2014. environmental sustainability understanding on our products and services. 28% of our passenger tyres consist of Ecopia and I owe all our stakeholders, who stood by us through our journey of Greenways brand environment friendly tyres. We have also retreaded sustainability, a debt of gratitude and I commit to strive to improve around 127.000 commercial tyres in the last year, through our rubber our performance in the forthcoming periods. coating brand Bandag, thereby ensuring the reduction of wastes. BRİSA 2014 SUSTAINABILITY Sincerely, REPORT While successfully pursuing the process of transformation from a production-oriented industrial company into a customer-oriented Hakan Bayman > MESSAGE FROM innovation company, we design the future of our journey together with CEO THE CEO all our employees. In this direction, we care for creating value for our employees, increasing participation for new ideas and mutual growth through our strategy of “Become employer of choice”. 8 MESSAGES FROM SUSTAINABILITY WORK GROUPS BRİSA 2014 SUSTAINABILITY Brisa Journey of Sustainability continues with our mission of “to provide superior values to society through sustainable growth”. We actualize the strategies REPORT we form in this context through the outstanding performance of our management systems and employees. We actively evaluate all our processes in order to determine the practices that will further improve our performance every term. > MESSAGES FROM SUSTAINABILITY WORK GROUPS 9 MESSAGES FROM SUSTAINABILITY WORK GROUPS Reducing our environmental impacts with an awareness of global environmental risks figures among the main TECHNICAL articles of our sustainability understanding. For this reason, we continuously assess our environmental impact FUNCTIONS as a responsible producer. We determine improvement points and set new targets. By evaluating the WORK GROUP environmental impacts of our products and services during design processes, we try to also reduce environmental impacts in end-use processes. Our management systems, innovative products and services are our most significant strategic tools in reducing our environmental impact. Aware that our commercial activities impact a large network of stakeholders, primarily our shareholders, SUPPLY CHAIN suppliers and business partners, we work for the deployment of sustainability principles throughout all our WORK GROUP value chain and we actualize pioneering practices. We manage the environmental, social and economic impacts of our products and services during their lifecycle, we make our investments and choices accordingly. We regard structuring a safe and sustainable traffic environment as our primary social responsibility. With this MARKETING responsibility, we focus on the issue of tyre and traffic safety in all our processes, from the improvement of our and SALES products and services to aftersales services. Alongside the training and awareness studies we implement in WORK GROUP this regard, we generate added value for all our stakeholders and the society through social responsibility projects we develop in the fields of education, culture, arts and sport. We manage our resouces effecienlty by maintaining stakeholder participation in order to produce and SUPPORT distribute higher economic value. We carefully determine economic, environmental and social risks and FUNCTIONS opportunities of strategies that we developed in this direction and get competitive advantage. We consider our WORK GROUP employees to be one of our most valuable resources, we design the future of our employees together through BRİSA 2014 our practices enriching working life. We strive to offer a fair, safe and healthy working environment, we SUSTAINABILITY contribute to the knowledge and accumulation of our employees through training and development programs REPORT we organize. We observe the work-life balance of our employees, we organize activities that will raise their quality of life. > MESSAGES FROM SUSTAINABILITY WORK GROUPS 10 G4-3, G4-6, G4-8, G4-17 ABOUT BRİSA Brisa, established with the initiative of Sabancı Holding and its partners in market in 2014, and Bridgestone motorcycle tyres, delivers its products and 1974, started manufacturing tyres under the brand Lassa in 1978. In 1988, services to vehicle owners at over 1.200 authorized sales points located all the company was named Brisa with an equal partnership realized between over Turkey. Brisa continues to grow in its export journey aiming for Sabancı Holding and the worldwide tyre industry leader Bridgestone sustainability, with over 120 sales points under a Lassa Tyres signboard in Corporation. Brisa won its first National Quality Award in 1993 and it became 2014. Lassa brand tyres are sold in over 60 countries through distributors the first Turkish company to win the European Quality Award in virtue of the and local business partners. Brisa also sells original equipment products to outstanding performance it demonstrated in business excellence in 1996. In automotive manufacturers including Renault, Toyota, Ford, Fiat, Honda, 2010, Brisa bought the American based rubber coating company Bandag's Mercedes Benz, BMC, Temsa, Isuzu, Otokar, Karsan, Türk Traktör, and MAN. Turkey operations from Bridgestone’s European subsidiary Bandag AG, thus diversifying its service portfolio. Brisa, who signed a distributorship TYRE PRODUCTION PROCESS (generic) GENERAL ASSEMBLY agreement with the worldwide leading battery brand Energizer in 2013, thereby extending its product range, developed a strategic business partnership with Authority Group, the innovative company of Turkish automotive and service industry, expanding its business volume. Brisa, which has one of the largest tyre factories under a single roof worldwide, its Kocaeli production facility with an indoor area of 361.000 m2 Click here to watch. Click here to watch. and an annual production capacity of 11 million pcs, is the 7th largest manufacturer of Europe. Together with the facility to be built in Aksaray for the production of passenger and light commercial vehicles, which is planned to be engaged in 2018, it is aimed for the total production capacity to be increased by 30%. The total amount of investment made to this day by Brisa, who provides direct employment to over 2,500 employees, has reached the level of 920 million US dollars. Brisa, which was on the 54th place in the ISO 500 list of the largest industrial institutions of Turkey in 2014, was ranked as the 39th in “Turkey’s Most Valuable Brands Research” conducted by the International Brand Rating Institution Brand Finance, with a brand value of 133 million US dollars. Brisa’s brand Lassa, which ranked 84th on the “Fortune 500 Turkey” list, is supported within the scope of Turquality, the brand support incentive BRİSA 2014 provided by the Undersecretariat of Foreign Trade. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Brisa produces tyres for automobiles, light commercial vehicles, buses, trucks, agricultural and heavy construction equipment, at international > ABOUT BRİSA standards according to safety and quality criteria, with its brands Bridgestone and Lassa. Brisa, who also imports and puts on the domestic market Firestone brand agricultural tyres, Dayton brand automotive tyres put on 11 G4-4 Services Non-Tyre Products Sales Channels Tyres BRİSA 2014 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT > ABOUT BRİSA 12 G4-7 Our Mission To provide superior values to society through sustainable growth Our Values Safety, Innovation, Customer Oriented, Team Work, Business Excellence, Sustainability Our Motto Change to Change Our Vision We innovate your journey SUPPLY CHAIN FINANCE We offer our We lighten the road stakeholders the for the best journey best value with the ahead. lowest cost through fast, flexible and innovative supply processes. MARKETING & SALES HR & LR TECHNICAL GROUPS BRİSA 2014 We make our We, Brisa Family, We create the best SUSTAINABILITY leadership create the roadmap journey ahead REPORT sustainable through to the best journey with a sense of value creation. together. ownership. > ABOUT BRİSA 13 958 1,7 BILLION TL 920 MILLION USD NUMBER OF IDEAS YEAR 2014 COLLECTED AND ADDRESSED THROUGH BRISA INNOVATION TOTAL AMOUNT OF INVESTMENT OUR NET SALES REVENUE REALIZED BY BRISA IN TURKEY TEAM STUDIES 4 63 6,4 NUMBER OF NUMBER OF TYRES SOLD BY BRISA TYRES SOLD 1.200 IN TURKEY DURING 2014 BY BRISA ABROAD LASSA BRANDS MILLION DURING 2014 NUMBER OF NUMBER OF SALES COUNTRIES EXPORTED MILLION TL POINTS WITH A SIGNBOARD 13 12 52 % OUR ENERGY % OUR TOTAL CO2 EMISSION % CONSUMPTION OUR WELL WATER REDUCTION SAVINGS RATE CONSUMPTION RATE FOR PRODUCTION SAVINGS RATE ,5 FOR PRODUCTION PER TON PER TON SINCE 2008 SINCE 2005 SINCE 2008 40,54 NUMBER OF NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES NUMBER OF NUMBER OF CUSTOMERS WORKAVERAGE LOCAL INCLUDED IN OUR RELATED SUPPLIERS 2.537 43.630 CUSTOMER HOURS OF FATALITIES 1.500 SATISFACTION SURVEY ANNUAL TRAINING FOR OUR BRİSA 2014 SUSTAINABILITY EMPLOYEES REPORT > ABOUT BRİSA 14 AWARDS WE RECEIVED DURING THE REPORTING PERIOD Award for Successful Strategic Management Third Prize in Innovation Resources at “InovaLig” Our “Brisa Strategy House” project which enables Brisa to We were deemed worthy of the third prize in the category of manage its strategies more actively and employees to add value Innovation Resources with our innovation approach and to corporate targets on the beam, was deemed worthy of the corporate entrepreneurship model at “InovaLig” innovation “Balanced Scorecard Hall of Fame for Executing Strategy” awards organized within the scope of the Turkish Innovation which is known as the “Oscar of Strategy Management” in the Week, under the initiative of the Turkish Exporters’ Assembly international business world and awarded by one of the world’s and in collaboration with the international management leading strategy and technology consultancy, training and consultancy firm A.T. Kearney. Thereby, Brisa ranked among the licensing institutions, Palladium Group. 15 most innovative companies of Turkey. LACP (League of American Communications Game Changers Turkey Award Professionals) Vision Award Our Profleet service, which brings together fleet management Our 2013 Sustainability Report was ranked 21st among the 50 solutions under a single roof, qualified to receive the “Game best reports in the world and qualified to receive the “Gold Changers” award in the category of “Change Your Relationship” Award” in the category of “Sustainability Report” at the LACP at “Game Changers Turkey” awards, which was organized for Vision Awards which was joined by participants worldwide with the first time in Turkey in the context of the 15th Marketing their reporting studies. Summit. Customer Oriented Service Innovation Award Honorary Mention Award at Awwwards We were deemed worthy of the “Customer Oriented Service ‘Profleet.com.tr’ microsite that was developed for our Profleet Innovation Award” at the Turkish Innovation Week with our platform was considered worthy of the Honorary Mention Award mobile sales point concept Bridgestone Box, which we by Awwwards, one of the world’s most prestigious award developed in 2014. mechanisms which awards innovative and creative website designs. National Innovation Award Market Orientation Award BRİSA 2014 We were elected National Champion in the category of SUSTAINABILITY We won the first prize at Sabanci Golden Collar Awards with the Innovation at the European Business Awards Competition which REPORT was organized for the 8th time this year and is considered one “Non-Tyre Products” project thereby rising to the top for the > ABOUT BRİSA of the most prestigious awards of Europe. Brisa was selected third time in the category of “Market Orientation”. Turkish National Champion from among approximately 24.000 companies participating from 33 countries across Europe and therefore was included in the top 2% in terms of innovation. 15 AWARDS WE RECEIVED DURING THE REPORTING PERIOD ISCSI Sustainable Project Award “Tripin” application in the “Most Favorite Startups” List We were entitled to the “Most Sustainable Project” award at the We succeeded in ranking on the 7th place in the “100 Most International Supply Chain Summit Istanbul (ISCSI), which was Favorite Startups 2014” list, which was the cover story of organized for the first time in 2014 and joined by supply chain Turkishtime Magazine in its July issue, with our “Tripin” managers with their projects. application which is the first social travel platform of Turkey. Tripin stood out as the only corporate entrepreneurship project Risk Management Award among all the startups in the list. We received the “Highly Commended” award in the category of Inveting in People” Award “Enterprise Risk Management Strategy of the Year” at the “Risk Management Awards” organized by CIR Magazine We reinforced our success by getting the “Investing in People” internationally, for the 5th time this year. award in Sabancı Gold Collar Award Ceremony Sabancı in second time. Oyak Renault Subsidiary Industry Achievement Award “Equality at Work” Award Our company was deemed worthy of the 2103 OSD Subsidiary Industry Achievement Award by Oyak Renault A.Ş., in We won the big award in Sabancı Gold Collar “Equality at Work” consequence of evaluations made in the fields of quality and category in which projects and action towards the participation delivery reliability, cooperation in technology development, and of women in business life are determined. accurate price positioning. “Creating Value” Award MediaCat Felis Best Reputation Management and Communication PR Award We won honorable mention in Sabancı Gold Collar “Creating Value” category that is biggest award and given to the company We came in first in the category of Best Reputation with highest success. Management and Communication PR with our 360 degrees communication works conducted for our 25th foundation BRİSA 2014 anniversary at the MediaCat Felis Awards Ceremony organized SUSTAINABILITY Istanbul Congress Center within the scope of Brandweek. REPORT > ABOUT BRİSA 16 1 SUSTAINABILITY JOURNEY With the awareness that becoming one of the pioneering companies in the field of sustainability is possible through our stakeholders, we continue with firm steps our sustainability journey which includes all our stakeholders, primarily our employees. In this journey, particularly the global accumulation of Bridgestone Corporation and the national experiences of Sabancı Holding, as well as our corporate policies, strategies, processes, projects and international standards shed light on our way. By means of this whole structure, we form sustainability strategies, plan our action and continue ensuring the integration of all our employees with their participations in all our processes on our journey which we continue with the mission of “to provide superior values to society through sustainable growth”. BRİSA 2014 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT > SUSTAINABILITY Won the Organized our JOURNEY The number of “Balanced Scorecard Sustainability our corporate Hall of Fame for Strategy CORPORATE memberships Executing Strategy” GOVERNANCE award with our Workshop STRUCTURE Brisa Strategy House. Risk Management Internal Auditing and Internal Control Prepared our Repeated the Number of awards SUSTAINABILITY Climate Change benchmarking study Risks and we won with our MANAGEMENT that evaluates our corporate Stakeholders Opportunities Report. various products, Priority Issues performance in sustainability. services and approaches Sustainability Priorities According to Stakeholder Groups DEVELOPMENT 11/61 We completed the inspections Won the “Highly Commendable” REPORT award in the category of of 11 business “Enterprise Risk Management processes out Strategy of the Year”. of 61 in our audit system. 17 We manage sustainability in accordance with our strong corporate structure The management structure of Brisa consists of a system involving a Board of and practices. Our Executive Board reviews and assesses our sustainability Directors and an Executive Committee. The positions of CEO and Chairman of performance in its economic, social and environmental dimensions. the Board of Directors are occupied by different individuals. Our Board of Directors, which is elected by the General Assembly, consists of 11 members, We determine and evaluate risks and opportunities in issues of sustainability of which 3 have executive duties and 2 are independent. through the works of our sustainability work groups and process owners. By G4-34, G4-35, G4-36, evaluating all these approaches within the scope of Risk Management and All the members of our Board of Directors are responsible for the G4-38, G4-39, G4-42, Internal Control, we strengthen our corporate governance structure. We performance of the company. Within the body of the Committee of Directors, G4-44, G4-SO4, G4-DMA ensure the dissemination of our sustainability and ethic understanding there is an Audit Committee, Corporate Governance Committee, and across our stakeholders in our value chain by developing our practices. Committee for the Early Identification of Risks. There is an Executive Committee consisting of the CEO, Executive Coordinator, Chief Technical We aim to form a Policy for Combating against Corruption and Bribery and to Officer, Assistant General Manager-Marketing, Assistant General announce the policy to all stakeholders through our official website, in 2015. Manager-Finance and Financial Assistant, tasked with supporting the Board of Directors in the planning and execution of strategic orientations regarding the operations of our company and in following investments. Our Executive CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Board bears the responsibility for the performance of our company in economic, social and environmental fields. STRUCTURE You can reach detailed information regarding the corporate governance structure of Brisa, members of the Board of Directors and senior level BRİSA 2014 managers under the “Investor Relations” tab at www.brisa.com.tr. SUSTAINABILITY OUR CORPARATE GOVARNACE UNDERSTANDING, REPORT Prof. Dr. Robert Kaplan and Prof. Dr. David Norton SUSTAINABILITY JOURNEY Palladium Group TRANSPERENCY FAIRNESS RESPONSIBILITY ACCOUNTABILITY > CORPORATE Balanced Scorecard Hall of Fame for Strategy GOVERNANCE Execution STRUCTURE Brisa achieved and sustained breakthrough Risk Management One of the most significant building stones of our constant development and performance through use of the Strategy Internal Auditing and Management System that we developed in 1990s institutionalization oriented working culture is our strong corporate Internal Control and won the Palladium Balanced Scorecard Hall governance understanding based on the principles of transparency, fairness, of Fame® award, a prestigious global honor SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT responsibility and accountability. We ensure the sustainability of our activities awarded to a very limited number of elite in light of modern management principles, observing top level national and organizations. Brisa’s commitment to Stakeholders sustainability is captured in its mission Priority Issues international standards, through the importance we attach to fair competition statement, which is translated into corporate Sustainability Priorities and legal compliance. strategic objectives such as “Create the Brisa According to way of sustainability” and “Green product lineup Stakeholder Groups and improve eco performance.” Sustainability is We believe the importance we attach to fair competition to consolidate our considered central to Brisa’s Strategy House and DEVELOPMENT REPORT reputation. In accordance, we consider it every employee’s individual has become a part of the company’s DNA. Brisa responsibility to comply with the rules of the Competition Law. has set as a priority, “to add value to the environment with methods that accord with nature’s balance,” as part of its investments for a livable world. 18 Risk Management The works in the direction of our risk management program, whose end products sold and the energy consumed were discussed at the senior goal is to ensure the sustainability of our products, services, operation, executive meeting in order to avoid risks and seize opportunities that might people, reputation, and financial power and to create the highest value for occur as a result of the climate change and the process of transition to low G4-2, G4-14, G4-15, our stakeholders, involve the areas of financial, strategic, operational and carbon economy. In consequence, it was decided that the study be detailed G4-43, G4-45, G4-46, compliance risks. Brisa Board of Directors has responsibility at the highest and disseminated throughout the corporation in 2015, and transformed into G4-47,G4-EC2, G4-DMA level concerning the establishment and maintenance of an effective risk a platform where all related projects and works will be periodically management system. The Committee for the Early Determination of Risk, evaluated by the executive team. selected from among members of the Board of Directors, reports to the Board of Directors bimonthly, in light of the information received from the Cumhur Bilgili, PhD Risk Management Department. In this report, it makes situation Brisa – Risk Management Manager assessments for critical risks as well as evaluating the efficiency of the risk management system of the company once a year. We base the C Corporate Risk Management structuring and execution of our risk management system on ISO 31000 Looking at the constituents at sustainability, one and other international standards. can see how strongly they are connected to the concepts of corporate risk management. We have a systematic risk management structuring through proactive We might say that concepts such as business approaches. For this reason, we assess global risks as effectively and continuity, compliance, reputation, liquidity, profitability and growth that BRİSA 2014 presciently as corporate and sectoral risks, we take measures concerning SUSTAINABILITY fall within the scope of risk management in our company, are also the the business results they will create. REPORT requirements of sustainable growth. Prepared our In 2014, we conducted a study, SUSTAINABILITY Climate Change where the impacts, risks and Foreseeing that the resources we make use of in our business JOURNEY Risks and opportunities of climate change and processes might be exhausted in the future or become more difficult to Opportunities of its consequences for the business obtain thereby increasing the costs, we are aware that creating CORPORATE Report. world and BRISA were evaluated, GOVERNANCE innovative solutions for these risks ahead of time is essential for our under the coordination of the Risk Management Department. In the study, STRUCTURE company to subsist and grow reliably. > Risk Management we have determined that risks and opportunities mostly revolve around the Internal Auditing and issues of energy and water resources, product and customer needs and We will continue to minutely determine and analyze in detail the risks Internal Control supply chain by taking into consideration the strengths and areas of and opportunities created by the strategies we plan, for us and all our SUSTAINABILITY improvement of Brisa as well as its sector, product and operations. MANAGEMENT stakeholders, in order for our company to take the right steps in its Stakeholders sustainability journey. During the study, short, mid and long term strategy proposals concerning Priority Issues Sustainability Priorities the determination of roles and responsibilities for related sustainability According to work groups within the company; close monitoring of water and energy Stakeholder Groups consumption indicators and rehabilitative projects by the senior DEVELOPMENT management; increasing relations with public authorities and regulatory REPORT institutions concerning environmental regulations; creating a synergy among the main partners, business partners and other companies; identification of environmentalist approaches and objectives about the 19 Brisa Corporate Compliance Policy We plan for Brisa Corporate Compliance Policy, which includes the support and commitments of the senior management, to come into force with the approval of the Executive Committee , in 2015. With this G4-DMA policy; we aim to ensure that all employees are focused on legal compliance and related risks alongside their performance in their daily work, by integrating the framework of compliance management into corporate strategies and corporate culture. By this means we aim at contributing to the sustainable development of the company and creating value. We plan for compliance principles such as fair competition, honest behavior in business relations, avoiding corruption, adopting the principle of sustainability, working in accordance with the laws of foreign trade, protecting equality of opportunity in equity purchases and sales, keeping straight records and transparent financial reporting, fair and respectable working conditions, preserving the profit we gain from our business and respecting the legally recognized rights of others, avoiding any violation of others’ property rights, distinguishing corporate and personal profits, cooperating with BRİSA 2014 public and other regulatory authorities to be included in the policy. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT International Award for Brisa Won the SUSTAINABILITY “Highly Commendable” We were considered worthy of the JOURNEY award in the category of “Highly Commended” award in the category of “Enterprise Risk CORPORATE “Enterprise Risk Management Strategy of the Year” GOVERNANCE Management Strategy at the competition that was STRUCTURE of the Year”. > Risk Management organized on a global scale by CIR Internal Auditing and Magazine (Continuity, Insurance & Risk UK), in November 2014. Internal Control SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT Stakeholders Priority Issues Sustainability Priorities According to Stakeholder Groups DEVELOPMENT REPORT 20 11/61 The processes to be audited throughout the year are determined by reviewing We completed the inspections related risks on an annual basis. We have of 11 business audited 9 business processes in 2013 and processes out aimed to complete the auditing of 18% of of 61 in our audit system. our processes in our auditing system in G4-57, G4-58, G4-HR9, 2014. We have realized this target in 2014 by auditing 11 business processes G4-SO3, G4-SO4, out of 61. We have also taken into consideration human rights issues in the G4-SO5, G4-DMA process audits we conducted and we completed related works. In 2015, we aim to conduct the audits of 10% of our business processes, reaching the level of 43% in total. The risk of irregularity constitutes one of our criteria within the scope of the auditing system. During the reporting period, we have reviewed processes against the risk of irregularity and bribery and we have not encountered any relevant cases. SA-ETIK Business Ethics Guidelines Opposing corruption and bribery is one of the primary responsibilities BRİSA 2014 of Brisa, as well as the whole business world, to the society and SUSTAINABILITY humanity. While we show our sensitivity in related issues during the REPORT SUSTAINABILITY Internal Auditing and internal auditing and internal control works we conduct throughout the year, we accept Sabanci Group’s SA-ETIK guidelines as our principal JOURNEY Internal Control guide. CORPORATE Internal audits and internal controls are conducted for the effective, You can reach detailed information regarding SA-ETIK Business Ethics GOVERNANCE reliable and uninterrupted execution of corporate activities and services, Guidelines at www.sabanci.com.tr. STRUCTURE the development of risk management, control system and corporate Risk Management > Internal Auditing and governance applications of the Company, contributing to the attainment of Internal Control the corporate and economic targets of the Company, and ensuring the SUSTAINABILITY integrity, consistency and reliability of the information provided by the MANAGEMENT accounting and financial reporting system. Stakeholders Priority Issues We execute internal auditing and internal control activities through the Sustainability Priorities agency of the Audit Committee within the body of our Board of Directors. According to Besides, Internal Auditing Department reporting to Board of Directors Stakeholder Groups works for the continuity of internal audit and internal control mechanism. DEVELOPMENT The Audit Committee and our Internal Auditing department assess the REPORT internal auditing system at periodic meetings they hold and present their findings to the Board of Directors. 21 SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT We consider sustainability to be an inseparable part of our primary business processes. For this reason, we constitute our corporate Murat Ayan strategies within the perspective of sustainability, we support them with Brisa – Management Systems Manager G4-18, G4-48, G4-49, our management practices, and we realize all our business processes in G4-50 accordance. By ensuring that the business results we achieve are Sustainable Future evaluated from the viewpoint of sustainability, we plan and implement all the improvements in our processes in this direction. A sustainable future is guaranteed through forming a strong economic structure coherent We recognize the experiences of Bridgestone Corporation and Sabancı with nature and society, with the participation of Holding to be among our principal guides in actualizing and reflecting our our stakeholders. In this direction, we treat sustainability approach on our processes. We deliver our sustainability economic, environmental and social difficulties as intertwined and performance by making use of these experiences together with national and international standards and our corporate policies and strategies. In related; we determine the direction of our sustainability approach with a this regard, we assessed our sustainability performance in 2014 through long termed perspective. benchmarking studies we conducted, we determined necessary action points and pursued evaluation We strive to begin thinking with sustainability, in all our work. We raise Repeated the works with relevant awareness in this issue through works such as Sustainable Change departments. Through all benchmarking study Conference, Sustainability Day, Green Office practices and “Our these practices, sustainability that evaluates our has become an ensemble of sustainability journey” orientation program and we turn sustainability BRİSA 2014 corporate performance practices increasing in into a corporate culture. SUSTAINABILITY significance within our REPORT in sustainability. corporate strategy. We have reviewed our Sustainability Management process by taking SUSTAINABILITY stakeholder feedbacks into consideration and based on our We continued our Brisa Strategy House and Brinsan JOURNEY Human Resources Portal practices, aimed at the benchmarking studies. In 2015, we plan to form our improvement road actualization of our sustainability practices and their map and to increase our training works aimed at our stakeholders. CORPORATE appropriation by our employees, in the year 2014. We continue to grow in this journey and to take responsibility for GOVERNANCE a sustainable future. STRUCTURE Risk Management Internal Auditing and HR & COORPARATE SUSTAINABILITY Internal Control EXECUTIVE DEVELOPMENT Number of awards > SUSTAINABILITY CEO COMMITTEE (Sustainability WORK GROUP The number of SPONSORS we won with our MANAGEMENT Management & our corporate Stakeholders Coordination) various products, Priority Issues memberships services and Sustainability Priorities According to approaches Technology Stakeholder Groups Production, Customer, Economic and Supply Product Social Chain DEVELOPMENT OHS and environmental Processes Processes Processes REPORT Processes 22 G4-49, G4-50 Sustainability Strategy Workshop We have organized our Sustainability Strategy Workshop with the participation of all our top Organized our “ management, in order to assume a Sustainability leading role in sustainability works and Strategy review our strategies. Workshop BRİSA 2014 We have reviewed existing sustainability strategies through SUSTAINABILITY current situation analysis and 2030 the world of the future REPORT scenario study and we determined new strategies. We completed SUSTAINABILITY our study by correlating sustainability priority areas with strategy JOURNEY maps. CORPORATE DESIGN THE FUTURE 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE Risk Management Internal Auditing and Internal Control > SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT Stakeholders Priority Issues Click here to watch. Click here to watch. Sustainability Priorities According to Stakeholder Groups DEVELOPMENT REPORT 23 Stakeholders COMMUNICATION WITH OUR STAKEHOLDERS We consider the expectations and views of our stakeholders to be an Sabancı Employees important component in order to further improve our sustainability Sabancı Extranet, Media, Brisa Blog performance. As a result of this understanding, when conducting our G4-24, G4-25, G4-26, operations we receive the views of relevant stakeholders for consideration Employees G4-27, G4-37 through stakeholder dialogue channels we have formed according to Corporate Website, Social Media, Brisa Academy, Mailing List, Sabancı Extranet, practical necessities. We systematically evaluate the expectations and views Media, Brisa Blog, Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Activities, Corporate and Financial Communication, E-Newsletter acquired through stakeholder dialogue channels at the Executive Committee and interdepartmental meetings which we regularly hold. Media Corporate Website, Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Activities, Advertising and Marketing Studies, Interview and Talks Alongside our management practices, we have the opportunity to get together with our stakeholders on various platforms within the scope of Investors sectoral associations and we receive the expectations and feedbacks of our Corporate Website, Corporate and Financial Communication stakeholders. Financial Reports, Investor Presentations, Financial Performance Reports We are receiving valuable feedbacks from our stakeholders concerning Local Community Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Activities, sustainability issues in our country’s business world through works within Donations and Sponsorships,Annual Reports the body of Business World and Sustainable Development Association, where our CEO was recently tasked with presidency. We meet the demands NGOs conveyed by public institutions and participate in technical workshops within Corporate Website, Various Memberships, Joint Projects BRİSA 2014 the body of the Tyre Subcommittee (LAK), of which we carry out the SUSTAINABILITY presidency, operating within the body of the Ministry of Science, Industry and Technology. Besides, we also participate in Tyre and Life Safety workshops Universities REPORT Corporate Website, Scholarships and Training Opportunities,Sponsorships within the body of the Ministry of Transportation, Maritime Affairs and and Supports SUSTAINABILITY Communication. We regularly attend European Tyre and Rim Technical JOURNEY Organization (ETRTO) and European Tyre and Rim Manufacturers’ Association Business Partners (ETRMA) meetings concerning tyre regulations as a full member. Corporate Website, Social Media, E-Academy, Media, Brisa Blog, Corporate and Marketing Communication, Performance Magazine, Brisa Academy, CORPORATE Dealer Meetings GOVERNANCE In the reporting period, we had many opportunities to get together with our End Users STRUCTURE employees and business partners who hold an important place among our Corporate Website, Social Media, Sabancı Extranet, Media, Brisa Blog, Risk Management stakeholders, on different platforms. We aim to ensure the dissemination of Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Activities, Advertisement and Marketing Studies Internal Auditing and our strategies, sustainability accumulation and understanding by Internal Control strengthening our communication channels and to actively collect the Customers SUSTAINABILITY Meetings and Conferences, Annual Reports expectations and feedbacks of our stakeholders. MANAGEMENT BRIDGESTONE > Stakeholders State Institutions Priority Issues Government Audits, Annual Reports, Meetings and Conferences LASDERLAK Sustainability Priorities According to ETRTO Stakeholder Groups Suppliers DEVELOPMENT Face to Face Meetings, Annual Reports, Suppliers Audits REPORT Potential Members of Brisa Corporate Website, Social Media Click here to watch. 24 Priority Issues We review our sustainability materiality matrix, which emerged in the By reviewing the reciprocal impacts of Brisa and stakeholder groups on context of our first sustainability reporting in 2012, in every reporting each other’s performances and probable future impacts within all three period through Sustainability work groups. Detailed studies such as the dimensions of sustainability, we provide input for our prioritization studies. G4-19, G4-20, G4-21, assessment of existing corporate strategies in view of sustainability, G4-50, G4-18 positioning analysis comparing sustainability priorities with sector In our 2014 study, we reviewed our priority issues in workshops and one on dynamics and competitors, identification of stakeholders, determination of one meetings realized with Sustainability work groups and department risks and opportunities provide the basis for this approach. representatives. Our Priority issues matrix shaped as a result of these studies and the breakdown of these issues by internal/external stakeholder We identify our stakeholders by carrying out evaluations in the economic, groups/processes are as follows: social and environmental dimensions and with a three layered perspective. Not priority(Not included in the •••High Top Priority Second Priority Emphasis on Customer Emphasis on Occupational Safety by Health and Safety Operations and Products Sold Innovation and report) Entrpreneurship Energy and Carbon BRİSA 2014 Management Development Journey SUSTAINABILITY Anti-corruption and Efficient use of natural Importance to Stakeholders REPORT Anti-Bribery resources and less waste Measures Taken Respect for SUSTAINABILITY Biodiversity More Environmentally Friendly Carry on Bussiness Beyond JOURNEY Employee Rights Products Legal Arrangements ••Medium Responsible Value Chain Applications CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE Risk Management Internal Auditing and Society Relations Confidenttially of Information Higher Economic Value Internal Control Generated and Distributed SUSTAINABILITY Involvement in Policy Making for MANAGEMENT Environmental and Social Stakeholders > Priority Issues Sustainability Priorities According to Stakeholder Groups DEVELOPMENT Increased Usage of Government •Low REPORT Incentives •Low ••Medium •••High Importance to Brisa 25 Sustainability Priorities According to Stakeholder Groups G4-20, G4-21 Executive Business Local Issues Customers Employees Suppliers Board Partners Managers Emphasis on customer health and safety during product lifecycle Emphasis on occupational health and safety Anti-corruption and Anti-bribery Measures Taken Carry on Business Beyond Legal Arrangements Efficient use of natural resources and less waste BRİSA 2014 Energy and carbon management SUSTAINABILITY REPORT More environmentally friendly products SUSTAINABILITY Confidentiality of Information JOURNEY Higher Economic Value CORPORATE Generated and Distributed GOVERNANCE Employee rights STRUCTURE Risk Management Involvement in Policy Making for Internal Auditing and Environmental and Internal Control Social Protection SUSTAINABILITY Respect for biodiversity MANAGEMENT Stakeholders Responsible Value Chain Applications Priority Issues > Sustainability Priorities Society Relations According to Development journey Stakeholder Groups DEVELOPMENT Innovation and entrepreneurship REPORT Increased Usage of Government Incentives 26 DEVELOPMENT REPORT WHAT 2014 OUR 2015 DID WE AIM FOR IN STATUS PERFORMANCE TARGETS THE YEAR 2014? DISCLOSURE We aimed to be an international Our Brisa Strategy House practice We aim to render the example of best practice with was deemed worthy of the connection between corporate Brisa Strategy House, “Balanced Scorecard Hall of Fame strategies and individual for Executing Strategy” award business plans more effective endowed by Palladium Group, one through our project of of the leading strategy and integrating Brisa Strategy technology consultancy, training House and Brinsan – Human and licensing institutions Resources Portal, worldwide. To complete the auditing of 10% of our business processes in BRİSA 2014 To complete the audits of 18% of We audited 11 out of our 61 our auditing system, SUSTAINABILITY our business processes in our business processes in 2014. (%18) REPORT auditing system, To publish the Brisa Corporate Compliance Policy, SUSTAINABILITY We increased the share of JOURNEY To increase the share of benchmarking studies and To structure a Policy for benchmarking studies in our stakeholder feedbacks in our Combating against Corruption CORPORATE sustainability strategy, corporate development project, and Bribery, to announce the GOVERNANCE Sustainability Management and policy to all stakeholders STRUCTURE other business processes. through our official website, Risk Management Internal Auditing and We conducted several focus group To continue our works for Internal Control To form more systematic studies with small groups. Our enhancing communication and SUSTAINABILITY methods for enhancing works for creating more stakeholder participation, MANAGEMENT communication and stakeholder systematic methods for enhancing Stakeholders communication and stakeholder To assess our relevant Priority Issues participation continue. processes by taking ISO 26000 Sustainability Priorities standard as basis, According to Stakeholder Groups To create an enhancement > DEVELOPMENT roadmap in order to improve REPORT the Sustainability Management process. Completed In Progress Incomplete 27 2 VALUE CHAIN We design the best journey ahead together with our stakeholders. We consider creating added value for all the components of our value chain to be among our primary tasks. We manage the lifecycle of our products and services spanning from raw material supply to end users in accordance with the objectives of minimal environmental impact and positive economic impact. We regard creating healthy, safe and dignified working conditions for employees in all stages of our value chain as one of our major duties. 38 43.630 Rate of Acquired the BRİSA 2014 % local Number of customers ISO 27001 Information SUSTAINABILITY supply Security Management who participated in our REPORT Customer System certification. Satisfaction Survey > VALUE CHAIN 4,8 1.200 Our Guarantee Provided CUSTOMER HEALTH AND SAFETY 384 man*hour of Number of Sales THROUGHOUT THE Examination and Suru-Raku training Points with a signboard PRODUCT LIFECYCLE RESPONSIBLE VALUE DAYS Reply Time to 24 employees. CHAIN PRACTICES Customers Actualized our Provided a total of Business Partners Bridgestone 15.500 hours of training Responsible Supply We put our DAYTON We were awarded Box service. to 1.964 employees of our Chain Practices brand on market. in the branch of “Most DEVELOPMENT business partners at Sustainable Project” REPORT Brisa Academy in the Supply Chain. 28 We manufacture our products so as to meet the quality, safety and health We consider the accurate and complete informing of our customers expectations of our stakeholders. We conduct our operations with the regarding our products and services to be among the most significant awareness of the responsibility we bear in all the stages of the product components of our business manner. We conduct studies to offer our lifecycle. customers safe tyres with a low noise level that are efficient in fuel consumption. We get together with our business partners and our customers on different G4-15, G4-EN27, G4-PR1, platforms. We improve our products and services throughout our value chain Within the scope of the Tyre Labeling System which entered into force in 2012 G4-PR3, G4-DMA by receiving the expectations and feedbacks of our stakeholders. within the framework of the law of harmonization code of the European Union, tyre performance is evaluated under 3 main criteria, namely fuel CUSTOMER HEALTH efficiency, wet grip and exterior noise; customers are informed in the issues of environmental sensitivity and safety performance on product labels. We AND SAFETY DURING attach a high level of importance to other labeling criteria that are left out in these criteria which reflect 30% of tyre performance in terms of environmental responsibility and driving safety. PRODUCT LIFECYCLE We act with the purpose of introducing our products into the market with highest existing safety standards. We constantly conduct improvement and development works regarding product safety. Our product responsibility understanding is one of our most important social commitments. In this regard, we implement product quality management at standards determined BRİSA 2014 above legal requirements. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT We offer our customers safe, robust and high quality products as well as services with high added value; we share information regarding the health, VALUE CHAIN safety and environmental impacts of our products with our customers. We > CUSTOMER HEALTH regularly inform the Ministry of Environment and Urbanization concerning AND SAFETY the raw materials we use in production, in THROUGHOUT THE Acquired the accordance with the Regulation PRODUCT LIFECYCLE ISO 27001 Concerning the Inventory and Control of RESPONSIBLE VALUE Information Security Chemicals. We hold ISO 14001, ISO TS CHAIN Management PRACTICES 16949, TS EN ISO-IEC 17025, ISO 9001, TSE System certification. Customers EN ISO 9001, TS EN ISO 10002, OHSAS Business Partners 18001 and ISO 27001 management systems certificates. Responsible Supply Chain Practices DEVELOPMENT REPORT 29 In order to ensure a balanced performance, we focus on over 50 performance criteria within the framework of product responsibility and we produce tyres that suit driving requirements and have a balanced performance. In the reporting period, there was no case resulting from noncompliance with legal requirements regarding product labeling. G4-EN27, G4-PR1, G4-PR3, G4-DMA Wet Grip We improve the label values indicating the wet ground stopping distance parameter, besides the new products we develop and the product improvements we realize in consumer goods, and we attach great importance to driving safety. In this way, we increase the share of our products with a label value of “C and over” for this parameter, in our sales portfolio. We have realized an improvement of 5,8% in this field, as against the previous year. WET GRIP Passenger vehicle products Share in domestic replacement market sales Label value 2012 2013 2014 2015 Target C and over %69,5 %68,5 %72,5 %78,5 E-F-G %30,5 %31,5 %27,5 %21,5 BRİSA 2014 We conduct all our marketing activities as a responsible seller. We direct our SUSTAINABILITY consumers correctly by describing our products and services to the REPORT consumer in the most accurate, direct and clear way and we take great care VALUE CHAIN to avoid a deceptive atmosphere. > CUSTOMER HEALTH AND SAFETY THROUGHOUT THE PRODUCT LIFECYCLE RESPONSIBLE VALUE CHAIN PRACTICES Customers Business Partners Responsible Supply Chain Practices DEVELOPMENT REPORT 30 RESPONSIBLE Fatih Tunçbilek Brisa – Supply Chain VALUE CHAIN Management Director Sustainability in the Value Chain G4-DMA PRACTICES We are aware of the significant impact of value chain practices on sustainability management. We strive for the dissemination of the We implement responsible value chain practices in accordance with our sustainability approach across our value chain in order to avoid risks in objective of disseminating our sustainability understanding throughout our the processes and to be able to utilize opportunities. value chain; we conduct activities based on the expectations of our stakeholders, effective supplier communication and competitive advantage. We conduct our activities by prioritizing occupational health and safety and customer health and safety, as well as minimizing our We support the sustainable development of our operational geography environmental impact. In this direction, we develop our products and through responsible value chain processes, we take important steps for services based on customer needs and expectations and we create perfect customer experience through innovation processes that are an difference through our innovative ideas. important part of our corporate culture. We continue accompanying the development of our business partners, we create a difference in our industry We attach importance to creating common values and developing through innovative practices we developed for customer satisfaction. We take together with all our stakeholders in our value chain, ranging from raw stakeholder communication and participation as a basis in all value chain material supply to our end users. We take stakeholder communication processes, we manage the social, environmental and economic impact areas and participation as a basis in order to improve our processes. created by our activities together with our stakeholders. BRİSA 2014 We develop responsible value chain practices in order to prioritize SUSTAINABILITY sustainability in the works we conduct and to ensure that all our REPORT stakeholders act with this perspective. At this point, we regard training and cooperation as the most important components to increase the VALUE CHAIN awareness of our stakeholders regarding the economic, environmental CUSTOMER HEALTH and social dimensions of sustainability. AND SAFETY THROUGHOUT THE PRODUCT LIFECYCLE Actualized our > RESPONSIBLE VALUE Bridgestone CHAIN PRACTICES Box service. We put our DAYTON Customers brand on market. Business Partners Responsible Supply Chain Practices DEVELOPMENT REPORT 31 Customers Consumer Satisfaction Survey (%) Customer Orientation, which is one of the essential values of our corporate 87,0 86,1 culture, is situated at the center of our planning and strategy processes. 84,0 83,7 83,8 Thanks to our customer oriented strategy approach, we combine our 83,6 customer satisfaction understanding with our sustainability understanding, G4-PR5 we generate solutions and services that bring about transformation and change for our customers. Through our customer management applications that create innovative values we closely follow the needs and expectations of our customers, we focus on managing satisfaction rather than complaints. 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 With our communication activities, we work for ensuring that our customers (Target) have the best experience always and everywhere. We support every customer who receives our products and services during the product lifecycle, we regularly make contact and conduct information works through Customer Contact Points. We record, analyze and deal with customer testimonials according to their significance and priority through our Customer Application Management System. 4,8 Our Guarantee Examination and We have improved the legal Guarantee Examination and BRİSA 2014 DAYS Reply Time Response Time for our products by 65% since the year 2009 and SUSTAINABILITY realized it as 4,8 days. We aim to continue our studies towards preserving REPORT this time period in the forthcoming period. In addition to the improvement achieved in the response time, we managed to convey photo responses to VALUE CHAIN 98,5% of our customers through our tyre-specific personal photo letter CUSTOMER HEALTH writing practice which we maintain since 2010. AND SAFETY THROUGHOUT THE PRODUCT LIFECYCLE 43.630 Since 2009, we have been RESPONSIBLE VALUE Number of customers conducting the Consumer CHAIN who participated in our Satisfaction Survey aiming at PRACTICES Customer > Customers regularly measuring the service Satisfaction Survey Business Partners quality performance of Brisa Responsible Supply dealers and determining the customer satisfaction level for our products and Chain Practices services. In accordance with our targets, we have increased the number of DEVELOPMENT customers interviewed within the scope of the survey in 2014 by 18% as REPORT against the previous reporting period and we reached 43.630 people. 32 We further reinforce our customer orientation with each passing day through our customer satisfaction and innovation management which we treat with an integrated approach. We aim to ensure continuity and for customer experience to always end the same way, that is in satisfaction, at every point of contact with the end user. In this scope, we implement the strategy we have developed for customer experience with the management model which we collect under the 4 main headings of store, call center, online and communicational. “Perfect Customer Experience” from Otopratik In the direction of customer experiences, we opened our Otopratik store, which we developed with the concept of “perfect customer experience”, in 2014, in Ankara. The interior design, product variety, sales and service processes, and technological infrastructure of the Store, which provide conveniences according to customer expectations, “Into the World of the Future with Sustainable Steps” Business aim to enhance the tyre purchasing experience of the customers. At the Partners Meeting store, besides a new application enabling our customers to choose their own tyres, we provide information that make following auto In 2014, we organized “Into the World of the Future with Sustainable maintenance and repair processes easier. Steps” Business Partners Meeting with the participation of our business partners and employees. At the meeting, the sustainability At our Model Store, which is designed as an educational base for Brisa and management and sustainable innovation vision of Brisa were tackled in our business partners’ employees and used for improving retail experience, light of the technological, economic, social and environmental BRİSA 2014 we conduct various studies devoted to assessing customer experience, we developments. SUSTAINABILITY develop rehabilitative practices and we share the experiences we acquire REPORT with our other business partners. Through the Call Center, which is one of We share the results of the consumer satisfaction surveys we regularly our main channels of communication with customers, we closely listen to conduct every year with our business partners and we identify points of VALUE CHAIN customer expectations and we implement necessary improvements at short improvement and advise them. While supporting our dealers through “Dealer notice. We continuously identify points of improvement in our products and Development Projects”, we organize national and local campaigns, realize CUSTOMER HEALTH services by examining online surveys, focus group studies and the experience CRM activities in order to increase the preferability of our sales points. AND SAFETY THROUGHOUT THE maps of our websites; we act with a solution generating approach. We evaluate the feedbacks about our environment, working conditions, PRODUCT LIFECYCLE business processes and supplier practices provided by our business partners Business Partners RESPONSIBLE VALUE in accordance with their own sustainability approaches as important inputs, CHAIN we inform our business partners in Provided a total of PRACTICES Our strong dealer network plays an the subject of product lifecycle. Customers > Business Partners 1.200 active role in our success in the 15.500 hours of training to 1.964 employees We attach great importance to Number of Sales industry. We actualize several Responsible Supply Points with practices to develop the businesses of our business partners “Customer Relations Management Chain Practices and Guarantee Practices” trainings in a signboard and increase the competences of our at Brisa Academy DEVELOPMENT order to reinforce the competence of REPORT dealers which constitute our most significant point of contact with end users. our business partners. In the reporting period, we provided employees of our In accordance, we constantly inform our dealers about our products, we business partners with training opportunities in the issues of basic tyre, organize trainings and general and regional meetings, we implement a product, retailing, wholesaling, fleet approaches, effective presentation reliable auditing system. techniques and service through Brisa Academy. 33 Supply Chain %38 %62 Local Suppliers Global Suppliers Raw Material • Natural rubber • Synthetic rubber • Carbon black • Steel cord Raw Material • Cord fabric • Chemicals warehouse Other goods and services Production İzmit Production Facility PRODUCTION PROCESSES PRODUCT WAREHOUSE 1 Compound preparation Mixer 2 Ekstruder / Calendering Annual Capacity: 11 milyon tyres 3 Tyre Building Indoor Area: 361.000 m² 4 Curing 5 Product Control BRİSA 2014 10,4 9,5 SUSTAINABILITY 9,1 6,4 REPORT 6,1 4,0 5,4 3,7 3,4 2014 2013 VALUE CHAIN Marketing and Sales 2012 CUSTOMER HEALTH AND SAFETY DOMESTİC FOREIGN TOTAL THROUGHOUT THE PRODUCT LIFECYCLE RESPONSIBLE VALUE CHAIN PRACTICES Customers 63 Countries Domestic Renewal Domestic OEM 15 Automotive Business Partners 1200 Branded sales Foreign Export Manufaturers Points > Responsible Supply Chain Practices DEVELOPMENT REPORT 34 Responsible Supply At the International Supply Chain Summit Istanbul (ISCSI) organization which Chain Practices We were awarded was held for the first time in the reporting period, the “Most Sustainable Project” in With the awareness that supply chain practices have a significant impact on in the branch of “Most the Supply Chain award was endowed to G4-12, G4-HR1, G4-SO9, sustainability management, we develop sustainable supply chain practices in Sustainable Project” Brisa. G4-DMA order to increase our cooperation in this issue with our business partners in in the Supply Chain. our supply chain and to raise awareness. The project involves the restructuring of all supply chain processes by making use of the We add value both to the industry and to the national economy with the “Supply Chain Operations Reference Model projects we develop and our expanding supply chain. We are leading all our (SCOR)”, an international reference model, stakeholders in our supply chain by taking the necessary care and developing the standardization of all KPI infrastructures exemplary approaches in issues such as human rights, employee rights, by rendering them comparable on a sectoral occupational health and safety, business ethics and environmental impacts. basis, and the constitution and implementation of Business Continuity Plans Purchasing and risk maps. We act in light of the local supply principle in our purchasing practices, which we manage under the headings of raw material supply and supply of other goods and services, we strive to improve the sustainability performances of our suppliers in the social, environmental and economic areas. BRİSA 2014 We form active and transparent communication channels for our suppliers, SUSTAINABILITY whose performance in issues such as human rights, employee rights, REPORT occupational health and safety, business ethics and environmental impacts we consider important, we guarantee their compliance through auditing VALUE CHAIN practices, we accompany their development by ensuring they receive CUSTOMER HEALTH trainings. We expect our stakeholders to fully comply with Brisa principles AND SAFETY both in raw material purchases which we conduct in collaboration with THROUGHOUT THE Bridgestone and in the supply of other goods and services. PRODUCT LIFECYCLE RESPONSIBLE VALUE CHAIN PRACTICES Customers Business Partners > Responsible Supply Chain Practices DEVELOPMENT REPORT 35 Because a majority of the raw materials we use are only found at certain In 2014, we evaluated 64 suppliers and we awarded our best supplier parts of the world, we still realize the bulk of our supply from abroad. with a Thank You Letter. 38 Rate of % local We conduct localization works in order to procure certain import dependent raw We assess our suppliers who supply us with machines, equipment and service through surveys filled in by our Internal Purchasing department and supply materials domestically, thereby creating G4-EC9, G4-EN32, all Brisa personnel. We assess our suppliers who exceed 0,1% of total value for local suppliers. We raised our raw material localization rate, which G4-LA14, G4-HR1, purchases for supplying other goods and services or supply 50 item orders was realized as 4% in 2011, to 8% in the reporting period and we increased G4-HR10, G4-HR11, annually in the reporting period, within the scope of the annual evaluation our total local supply rate, which was realized as 36,2% in the previous term, G4-SO9, G4-DMA system. In this regard, we evaluated 172 of our suppliers who fit the related to 38% in the reporting period, as a result of a growing number of localization criteria from among 878 suppliers with whom we have worked during the studies. period, through a total of 1.346 surveys filled in by 173 employees and points calculated by the system and we awarded our best ten suppliers. We ensure that our suppliers accept the “General Purchasing Rules and Conditions” and declare that they will fully comply with our expectations During the audits in the reporting period, there was no supplier before the purchase is realized. We guarantee the full compliance of our determined to have current or probable negative environmental suppliers with legal regulations through our purchasing contracts including impacts. our responsible supply principles, we lead them in conducting activities in parallel with the sustainability strategy of Brisa. We expect our suppliers to fully comply with basic human rights and our business ethics principles. We impose sanctions that include contract termination in cases of noncompliance. We work with suppliers who comply Supplier Audits fully with all legal regulations including a safe working environment, working hours and remuneration. We care for practices in the field of occupational BRİSA 2014 We regard supplier audits as an effective stakeholder communication health and safety. SUSTAINABILITY method. We help our suppliers improve their commercial, social and REPORT environmental performances through improvement areas we identify. In the reporting period, there was no supplier whose contract was VALUE CHAIN terminated due to noncompliance with basic human rights and We assess the companies from which we supply raw materials through the business ethics principles. agency of our Purchasing, Technology and Quality Reliability departments, CUSTOMER HEALTH AND SAFETY within the scope of our Supply Management System Standard. We subject our THROUGHOUT THE suppliers having a share of 0,1% and over in purchases, to evaluation using PRODUCT LIFECYCLE our “Supplier Assessment Form”. We review the results in the context of the RESPONSIBLE VALUE “Annual Supplier Evaluation Meeting” devoted to our raw material suppliers, CHAIN we identify the companies to be audited. We share evaluation results with our PRACTICES Customers suppliers and ensure the follow-up of the actions determined concerning Business Partners areas open to improvement. > Responsible Supply Chain Practices DEVELOPMENT REPORT 36 Environmentalist Logistics Operations Erez Navaro We do not regard the environmental impacts of our products and services Ege Kimya – Business as restricted with the stages of production and service, we act with an Development Director understanding that accounts for the entire lifecycle of our products and services. We strive to minimize the environmental impacts of our storage G4-EN30, G4-EN33, Working with Brisa and distribution processes, we conduct logistics operations where we G4-LA14, G4-SO9, As a company supplying raw material to Brisa realize route scheduling and implement environmentalist storage G4-DMA for long years, we constantly had opportunities practices. We try to make more use of sunlight in our new warehouses. We to improve ourselves and learn through the audits and evaluations take care to choose the optimum locations for warehouses thereby realized during our collaboration. ensuring more transfers with less fuel consumption. We try to minimize CO2 emission by increasing the rate of vehicles with EURO5 and over Brisa contributes to the national economy by always encouraging us engines in our transports. regarding the domestic production of import dependent raw materials. It focuses on conducting long termed collaborations by creating a fair Hourly special delivery project for metropolitan areas and reliable working environment at supplier selections and price The bulk shipment of tyres in great quantities to the relevant Model negotiations. Stores of big cities, the procurement of tyres from these locations either by customers themselves or their delivery to customers by small It operates with great sensitivity in the matters of employee health and vehicles. safety, corporate social responsibility awareness and environment and Benefits of the project: Preventing large vehicles from entering city leads the industry by demanding the same awareness and practices traffic and increasing congestion, reducing CO2 emission. from its suppliers. In the reporting period, we have increased seaway transportation by 15% as BRİSA 2014 Subcontractor Approach against the previous period. In this way we have realized the share of land SUSTAINABILITY transportation in total shipments as 38%, thereby continuing to reduce our REPORT We ensure that subcontractor company employees serving at our factory logistics originated environmental impact. We plan to further increase the VALUE CHAIN receive trainings to be informed regarding the organization and processes rate of seaway transportation and to extend the use of electric forklifts in of Brisa and enhance their knowledge, skills and competences in the issues our warehousing operations, in the forthcoming period. CUSTOMER HEALTH of occupational health and safety, professional-technical equipment and AND SAFETY environment in accordance with their position, task and responsibility. In THROUGHOUT THE the reporting period, 2.327 subcontractor company employees received PRODUCT LIFECYCLE RESPONSIBLE VALUE 6.981 man*hour of training in the context of the Orientation Training CHAIN Program. PRACTICES Customers In parallel with responsible purchasing practices, we observe criteria such Business Partners as legal compliance, respect for basic human rights and compliance with > Responsible Supply our business ethics principles, in the selection of subcontractors. We Chain Practices DEVELOPMENT assure that subcontractor company employees achieve healthy, safe and REPORT dignified working conditions. We keep the accident-free performance of subcontractors in our agenda. 37 DEVELOPMENT REPORT WHAT DID WE 2014 OUR 2015 AIM FOR STATUS PERFORMANCE TARGETS IN THE YEAR 2014? DISCLOSURE We aimed to increase our local We increased our local supply We aim to complete our supply rate, rate by 5% as against the Responsible Purchase Policy previous year, to 38%. and to share it through the portal with our suppliers alongside SA-ETIK Business We have increased the number To raise the scope of the Ethics Guidelines, Brisa of customers interviewed within Customer Satisfaction Survey Environmental Policy, Brisa the scope of the survey we participation to the level of OHS Policy and Supplier Ethics conducted by 18% as against 54.000 in 2014, Rules, the previous reporting period, reaching 43.630 people. To ensure the participation of BRİSA 2014 To realize customer satisfaction We realized our customer our suppliers in our Sustainable SUSTAINABILITY level at the rate of 86%, satisfaction level as 86,1%. Change Conference to be held REPORT in 2015, VALUE CHAIN We completed our works on To acquire ISO 27001 To conduct the Customer Information Security information security and we Satisfaction Survey with 45.000 CUSTOMER HEALTH AND SAFETY Management System acquired ISO 27001 Information people, THROUGHOUT THE certification, Security Management System PRODUCT LIFECYCLE certification. RESPONSIBLE VALUE CHAIN PRACTICES To maintain our Guarantee To realize the level of customer We realized our Guarantee Customers Examination and Response satisfaction at the rate of 87%. Examination and Response Business Partners Time at the level of 5 days. Responsible Supply Time as 4,8 days. Chain Practices > DEVELOPMENT REPORT Completed In Progress Incomplete 38 3 INNOVATION AND CORPORATE ENTREPRENEURSHIP We build our innovation and corporate entrepreneurship processes, which are among the most essential components of our corporate strategies, in accordance with our sustainability targets. We make a tremendous effort to place innovation and corporate entrepreneurship at the center of our corporate culture and business processes. We perceive the transformation from a production company into an innovation company as our most important objective; we strive to create difference in our industry through our innovative processes, products and services that meet the expectations of our customers, business partners and other stakeholders. We aim to create the perfect customer experience and value for our business partners, we regard the needs and opinions of our stakeholders as our most important guides towards this target. 108 Became a European Received BRİSA 2014 Brisa Business World the third prize in SUSTAINABILITY Innovation Portal REPORT “National Innovation Champion”. Innovation Resources at “InnovaLig”. IDEAS idea competition >INNOVATION AND 55 CORPORATE ENTREPRENEURSHIP Brisa Innovation Team Won the Customer Hours of innovation 300 Ideas, Oriented Service and corporate BRİSA INNOVATION PORTAL 15 Solution, Innovation award entrepreneurship training IDEA COMPETITION 3 Detailed with Bridgestone Box. we provided at universities. DEVELOPMENT REPORT solutions and 1 Prototype (Minimum Viable Product) 39 We defined our innovation polity in 5 steps through the Brisa Innovation Management Methodology we have revealed in 2014: Mehmet Pekarun Sabancı Holding – Industry Group 1. To establish an innovation strategy befitting the strategies of Brisa, President 2. Realizing the necessary organizational arrangements in accordance with this vision and strategy and spreading the culture of innovation across our Innovation and Corporate Entrepreneurship organization, Brisa works to simply life for customers and to 3. Determining the required innovation processes for cultural transformation provide solution that creates differences in and setting forth tools such as Brisa Innovation Portal, sector by blending innovation and customer 4. Providing innovation and corporate entrepreneurship trainings to the focused approaches which are the values from owners of the ideas collected through the portal and to develop business the starting days. It is positioned as solution partner for customers in models together, every segment in automotive sector more than an industrial company. 5. To continuously follow the business models being created and to report them to the senior management. While being an important example for change and flexibility culture in Sabancı Holding Industry Group Companies, it elates us by being We act through effective organizational tools for our innovation processes to appreciated for Innovation Awards in Innovation week and being one of be efficiently managed, we bring together employees from different functions the top 10 corporate entrepreneurship example in Turkey. and areas of expertise with the attention and support of the senior management. We execute our Innovation and Corporate Entrepreneurship It is crucially important to develop systems and convey information to works under the Strategy Planning department working directly with the society for the continuity of studies. I think Brisa has an important role CEO. We conduct idea studies, constitute new business models, and actualize in this area. activities focusing on service and product innovation through several practices led by Brisa Innovation Team consisting of an expert and 11 While Brisa is spreading its own established systems to all innovation team members related to this expert by 10% of their performance. stakeholders with innovation team, it is also sharing its knowledge and experience about innovation and corporate entrepreneurship with Brisa Innovation Team Through innovation trainings Turkish business life starting with our group companies. 300 Ideas, that are among leading BRİSA 2014 15 Solution, novelties we have actualized in I thank to Brisa for its contributions to create innovation and corporate SUSTAINABILITY 3 Detailed the reporting period, we have entrepreneurship culture in our group companies. REPORT solutions and 1 Prototype provided our employees and (Minimum Viable Product) external stakeholders with In 2014, we organized a training aimed at the development and >INNOVATION AND trainings that will increase their dissemination of competences with the involvement of 22 CORPORATE awareness regarding the issue. We have provided a total of 60 hours of participants from 5 different companies. We supported information ENTREPRENEURSHIP innovation training to 54 Brisa employees during 2014. sharing following attendances to external training and conferences. We BRİSA INNOVATION also aim to organize a Corporate Entrepreneurship Day with broad PORTAL We put together the Innovation and Corporate Entrepreneurship Tools participation in 2015. IDEA COMPETITION booklet as part of the works for constituting and disseminating a culture of DEVELOPMENT innovation and corporate entrepreneurship within the synergy groups REPORT composed of the companies Sabancı Holding Industrial Group, of which we are an affiliate. We determined corporate entrepreneurship competences and evaluated Brisa Innovation Team members 360 degrees according to these. 40 As part of other practices aimed at our external stakeholders in 2014, we organized innovation, corporate entrepreneurship and creative thinking workshops and conferences for high school and university students, as well as business world employees. Besides the workshops organized during Turkey Innovation Week, we provided a total of 55 hours of innovation and corporate entrepreneurship training to students at Marmara, İstanbul, İstanbul Technical and Boğaziçi universities. We also provided TÜBİTAK supported trainings in cooperation with GINOVA (entrepreneurship and innovation center) at Istanbul Technical University. Became a European Received Business World the third prize in “National Innovation Innovation Resources Champion”. at “InnovaLig”. Thanks to our works in the field of innovation, we were deemed worthy of the third prize in terms of Resource use and the “Customer Oriented Service Innovation Award” at Turkey Innovation Week, as well as the “National Innovation Champion” award at the European Business World Awards competition. BRİSA INNOVATION PORTAL You can reach the portal at http://bip.brisa.com.tr. Won the Customer Brisa Innovation Team Oriented Service BRİSA 2014 Innovation award The Innovation Team can be defined as an SUSTAINABILITY with Bridgestone Box. idea generation laboratory composed of REPORT We take pride in having accomplished yet another first in our industry and in different disciplines in order to design the INNOVATION AND Turkey with Brisa Innovation Portal, towards which we started working in future of Brisa and our customers. CORPORATE January 2013 and which we offered to the use of our employees in 2014, in This formation, whose ultimate goal is to add ENTREPRENEURSHIP line with our vision “We Design the Future of Your Journey”. The portal, value to all our stakeholders through whose algorithm and content was fully developed by Brisa Innovation Team is entrepreneurship models, contributes both to > BRİSA INNOVATION the corporate culture and to team members PORTAL an idea collecting instrument, which supports the stages of idea creation through idea development exercises, trends, risks and department based undergoing this experience, throughout its IDEA COMPETITION DEVELOPMENT needs and problems prior to the stage of idea collecting. Through the portal, lifecycle. Our team, which was formed with 8 REPORT which we plan to offer to the use of our customers and business partners in people, has reached 14 people and new 2015, we organize idea competitions twice a year and we reward those with volunteers join our ranks every year. ideas. 41 Then we ensure that our employees build their business model based on their ideas and prepare its prototype (Minimum Viable Product) to try it on real customers. Hereby, we receive the ideas of our employees into the business incubator, we assess them, guide their progress and realize follow-ups. We plan to both extend the information input with external stakeholder inputs and feed the ecosystem around us by making Brisa Innovation Portal available to our business partners. In this way, we will have taken a huge step towards laying the foundations of open innovation, on which we have been working for a while, and rendering innovation sustainable with regards to Brisa and its stakeholders. Irmak Çiğdem Brisa – Price Analysis Specialist I got an idea! Perpetuating growth through innovation is essential for the sustainability of companies. Brisa supports this understanding through the free platforms it constitutes and values the ideas of its employees. IDEA COMPETITION In order to stand by our customers and facilitate their mobility, we place the end user at the center of our business, we work to create 108 With the Idea Competition that we realize twice a innovative ideas by feeding on their needs and expectations. BRİSA 2014 year through Brisa Innovation Portal, we SUSTAINABILITY encourage our employees to share their ideas REPORT IDEAS regarding our processes, products and services, I have conceptualized the project, deriving from the main idea of win-win for Brisa and the end user and linking contemporary Brisa we ensure that innovative ideas suitable to our communication technology with tyre, and I was elected 1st at 2014 INNOVATION AND Innovation Portal corporate strategies are actualized. CORPORATE Brisa Innovation Portal Idea Competition. idea competition ENTREPRENEURSHIP Within the Idea Competition that is also one of the leading tools we use for We focus all together on increasing customer satisfaction and BRİSA INNOVATION stakeholder communication, we inform our employees regarding the constituting sustainable business models, with reference to our vision PORTAL subjects determined for each competition period together with the senior “We Innovate Your Journey”. > IDEA COMPETITION management, we offer the ideas conveyed through our portal to the voting of DEVELOPMENT BIT, senior management and employees following the screening of Brisa REPORT Innovation Team. We reward the owners of selected ideas at the events we organize and we subsequently offer them innovation and corporate entrepreneurship trainings similar to the classes we provide at universities. 42 LASTİK.COM.TR We offer our customers the convenience of having the products they choose mounted on their vehicles at their homes or workplaces by appointment through the website www.lastik.com.tr. Click here to watch. LASTİK OTELİ With our Lastik Oteli service, in line with our customer orientation understanding and our strategy of appropriating the phenomenon of travel, we ensure that summer and winter tyres are insured and kept under suitable conditions during the periods they are out of use. Click here to watch. BRİSA 2014 MOBİL FİX SUSTAINABILITY By putting ourselves in our fleet customers’ place, we realized that we REPORT needed to offer solution for both individual use and fleets in the segment of INNOVATION AND heavy commercial vehicle customers. We offer the opportunity of onsite CORPORATE maintenance for heavy commercial vehicles with the mobile truck service ENTREPRENEURSHIP Mobilfix which we have developed. In this way, we ensure that vehicle owners and fleets save on time and costs and maintain their business continuity. BRİSA INNOVATION PORTAL > IDEA COMPETITION DEVELOPMENT REPORT Click here to watch. 43 Summer tyres are taken back from where they were put last If the tyre thread depth is reduced and needs to be replaced, you can CUSTOMER When summer comes Summer tyres are mounted. year, Lastik Oteli, and winter tyres are renew them at our sales and service points EXPERIENCE put instead. throughout Turkey. With Tripin application, trip route is determined, shared with friends. All crew gets ready Brisa Call Center We ride all summer panoply. is there for you for at the beaches, all your questions. on the sand, dust and earth all over the camp. Good times are With lastik.com.tr, tyres are enjoyedat the events purchased with one click and we sponsor. renewed at the wished location. Before the trip, our expert personnel vehicle control and maintenance with latest-technology equipment in services aiming at LS Road Support 100% customer satisfaction. and BS Alo Yol Dostu When winter comes, winter tyres are mounted. are there with you 7 /24. Summer tyres are put into Lastik Oteli. Summer ends. Vehicle is cleaned at OtoPak. The difference of winter tyres BRİSA 2014 are experienced in our SUSTAINABILITY special activities. REPORT INNOVATION AND CORPORATE ENTREPRENEURSHIP BRİSA INNOVATION PORTAL Expired tyres are collected > IDEA COMPETITION by LASDER, utilized with DEVELOPMENT recycling and brought When time comes for tyre REPORT for reuse. change and rotation, Brisa reminds via SMSs. 44 DEVELOPMENT REPORT WHAT DID WE AIM 2014 2015 FOR IN STATUS PERFORMANCE TARGETS THE YEAR 2014? DISCLOSURE We aimed to increase the use of The Portal is being used by our We aim to make Brisa Brisa Innovation Portal, employees at the rate of 90% Innovation Portal available to and the number of idea inputs is our business partners thereby increasing. both expanding information input through external stakeholder inputs and feeding To organize trainings in order to We participate in classes at five the ecosystem surrounding us. render what we learn universities and we shared sustainable, knowledge sharing. To generate ideas with Brisa Brisa Innovation Team Innovation Team. expanded in order to produce more quality ideas. BRİSA 2014 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT INNOVATION AND CORPORATE ENTREPRENEURSHIP BRİSA INNOVATION PORTAL IDEA COMPETITION > DEVELOPMENT REPORT Completed In Progress Incomplete 45 G4-SO1, G4-DMA 4 ENVIRONMENTAL APPROACH Reducing our environmental impacts while ensuring the sustainability of our productivity in our processes is among issues we attach particular importance. Therefore we act with the awareness of the impact of climate change and natural resource use on our operations. We aim for continuous development in our processes and we improve our performance in accordance with the targets we determine. We actively implement management systems in order to further improve our environmental sustainability performance. We maintain our operations by reinforcing a business philosophy beyond legal requirements, through the support we receive from our management and employees. With the awareness that stakeholder participation will further enhance our performance, we actively develop projects, collaborate with our stakeholders in our value chain and we take their feedbacks into consideration. BRİSA 2014 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 847.566 US Dollars %52 We reduced our 127.000 Environmental well water consumption The number of tyres retreaded > ENVIRONMENTAL Protection and rate by 52% compared within the scope of the Bandag service. APPROACH Investment to 2008. Expenditures in 2014 ENERGY AND EMISSION MANAGEMENT x12 %12,5 EFFICIENT USE OF We increased our We reduced our CDP NATURAL RESOURCES energy savings twelvefold total emission amount Prepared AND LESS WASTE as against 2008, through per production tons by our CDP report RESPECT FOR BIODIVERSITY efficiency projects. 12,5% as against 2005. ENVIRONMENT %31 FRIENDLY PRODUCTS We have ensured 6% fuel AND SERVICES and 7,5 million TL worth Supported the process DEVELOPMENT We reduced our of tyre savings through of collecting and recycling REPORT worn out tyres for the benefit hazardous waste vehicle and tyre maintenances services we provided within of the environment and rate by 31% the context of Profleet. economy carried out by LASDER. compared to 2010. 46 We continue our environmental management practices by fulfilling the requirements of national and international standards. We conduct benchmarking and assessment studies in accordance with the understanding of planning, implementing, controlling and taking precautions brought about by ISO 14001 Environmental Management System. We actualize improvement G4-SO1, G4-DMA and training practices directed at the results of these studies. We thereby ensure the dissemination of the awareness of environmental protection from the institution towards the individual with the contributions of Environmental Management Systems. Environmental Protection and Investment Expenditures (US dollars) 1.198.410 1.098.097 880.195 847.566 349.860 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 The reasons for the increase in environmental protection and investment expenditures after 2010 are effective resource management and improvement oriented investments aimed for adaptation to climate change. BRİSA 2014 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 847.566 > ENVIRONMENTAL US Dollars APPROACH Environmental Protection and ENERGY AND Investment Expenditures in 2014 EMISSION MANAGEMENT EFFICIENT USE OF NATURAL RESOURCES AND LESS WASTE RESPECT FOR BIODIVERSITY ENVIRONMENT FRIENDLY PRODUCTS AND SERVICES DEVELOPMENT REPORT 47 ENERGY AND EMISSION MANAGEMENT Climate change constitutes a great risk for our world. We conduct our In 2014, we completed the LEED certification process for our Brisa operations with the awareness that its reflection on the business world will Academy and Museum building and we qualified for a Gold be on a similar scale and of the relevant steps that need to be taken. We start certificate. 12% of the energy need of our Brisa Academy building, G4-15, G4-EN31, G4-DMA which was designed with the green building concept, for the year practices aimed at reducing the environmental impacts of our products at the stage of design. We follow technological advancements closely, we actualize 2012 was provided from solar panels. benchmarking and assessment studies aiming at developing products with All water need is Furniture made lower environmental impacts. met by water from treatment units recycled material In order to fulfill the responsibility incumbent on us concerning climate %20 ratio of energy change, in 2014 we offered our “Climate change risks and opportunities” supplied through report to our Executive Board and we conducted studies to determine the solar panels 300 TON strategic steps to be taken. Implementing the works that will minimize these annual water Parking area saving realized risks in the following processes is one of our essential goals. Alongside these for environmentallywith rain water freindly and less practices, we are an active member of the Environment and Climate Change storage system consuming cars work groups of the Turkish Industrialists’ and Businessmen’s Association, Bicycle Elevator which plays an active role in the strategy, policy and regulation identification Electric car parking for the handicapped processes of our country regarding climate change. recharge station space people Rendering the energy consumption in our business processes more efficient BRİSA 2014 SUSTAINABILITY is among our significant operational priorities. For this reason, we We make use of natural gas, diesel fuel, LPG and gasoline as direct energy REPORT continually strive for efficient energy use through the energy efficiency sources, and of electricity and steam as indirect sources which account for projects and improvement works we realize. the majority of our energy consumption, in our operations. ENVIRONMENTAL APPROACH We aim to acquire ISO 50001 Energy Management System certification in 2008-2014 Direct/Indirect Energy Consumption Breakdown > ENERGY AND 2015, through the constitution of an energy policy, assessment of energy (%) (Total=100) EMISSION conditions and performance, standardization of the energy management MANAGEMENT system, internal audits, corrective and preventive actions. For this purpose EFFICIENT USE OF we had an “Energy Audit” done during the reporting period and we NATURAL RESOURCES determined our efficiency increasing projects following the study. As a result AND LESS WASTE of this process, we aim for constant improvement in energy efficiency and for %12 RESPECT FOR BIODIVERSITY reducing our emissions. ENVIRONMENT DIRECT FRIENDLY PRODUCTS AND SERVICES INDIRECT DEVELOPMENT %88 REPORT 48 The reflection of the significance we attribute to the efficient use of energy on our business results is also positive. In 2014, we have reduced our direct %12,5 We have been maintaining our works devoted to the reduction of energy consumption per production ton by 6%* as against the previous We reduced our carbon dioxide emissions since period, and our indirect energy consumption by 4%*. Even though the total emission amount 2005. In the year 2020, we aim to amount of products we produce has increased over the years, we have per production tons by reduce the total direct and energy improved our total energy consumption per production ton by 13% as 12,5% as against 2005. caused carbon dioxide emissions G4-EN5, G4-EN6, against 2008, and 4%* as against the previous period. In this way, we have G4-EN18, G4-EN19 per production ton by 25% as against 2005. As of the year 2014, we have achieved a performance surpassing the target we set for the 2014 reporting period. achieved a reduction of 12,5% as against the year 2005 within the scope of this long termed objective. Total Energy Consumption (Index GJ/Production ton, Base: 2008=100) In 2014, we have reduced our direct carbon dioxide emission per production 95 ton by 11%* and our energy caused emission by 3%* thereby improving our 94 89 91 total carbon dioxide emission by 3%* as against the year 2013. 87 85 Total Carbon dioxide Emission (Scope 1 & Scope 2) (ton CO2-e/Production ton) (Index, Base: 2008=100) 2010 2011 2012** 2013** 2014** 2015 (TARGET) 96 95 93 92 x12 In the reporting period, we have ensured a twelvefold increase in 89 We increased our our energy savings amount as BRİSA 2014 energy savings twelvefold against the year 2008 through SUSTAINABILITY as against 2008, through efficiency projects such as the REPORT efficiency projects. automation of pressurized water 2010 2011 2012** 2013** 2014** ENVIRONMENTAL systems in curing presses, application of new generation insulation We have been reporting the carbon dioxide APPROACH materials and extending the use of high efficiency lighting products. CDP emission generated during our operations Hereby, we have achieved the target we had determined in the previous We prepared > ENERGY AND period. within the scope of the Carbon Disclosure our CDP report Project (CDP) since 2010. As of the year 2013, EMISSION MANAGEMENT Energy Savings Achieved Through Efficiency Projects we started having our calculations verified by accredited institutions within EFFICIENT USE OF (Cumulative Index GJ/Production ton, Base: 2008=100) the framework of ISO 14064 Standard. NATURAL RESOURCES AND LESS WASTE 1.222 1.299 We prioritize seaway transportation, which has less environmental impact, RESPECT FOR 1.086 968 for the transportation of our products and we perform route planning in BIODIVERSITY 830 order to reduce the emission amount caused by our logistics operations. 593 ENVIRONMENT FRIENDLY PRODUCTS We contributed as Brisa to the 3rd Partnership for Partnership for Market AND SERVICES DEVELOPMENT Readiness (PMR) regional meeting organized by the World Bank in REPORT 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 (TARGET) cooperation with the Ministry of Environment and Urbanization with the * See Independent Limited Assurance Report purpose of preparing for markets which include Turkey and where the ** While related ratios are indexed with regards to 2008, real values belonging to years Turkish industry will take its place in the development and maturing of 2012, 2013 and 2014 are incorporated in limited assurance studies. Index information according to 2008 is excluded from limited assurance scope. Regional Carbon Markets. 49 EFFICIENT USE OF NATURAL RESOURCES AND LESS WASTE G4-15, G4-DMA We contribute considerably to the conscious use of natural resources through works in our production processes, changes we strive to create in our working behaviors, and our environmentally products and services. BRİSA 2014 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Green Office Program ENVIRONMENTAL APPROACH In 2014, we started the “Green Office Program” conducted by WWF. As part of the program, we have actualized several practices in issues ENERGY AND such as creating awareness among employees, making use of EMISSION MANAGEMENT renewable resources, conscious use of natural resources. In the > EFFICIENT USE OF reporting period, we have supported the Green Office culture through NATURAL RESOURCES our practices of waste sorting, waste oil and e-waste collecting AND LESS WASTE campaigns, collecting Green ideas at Brisa Innovation Portal, e-bill, GREEN OFFICE VOLUNTEERS RESPECT FOR digital archiving and less paper use. BIODIVERSITY ENVIRONMENT FRIENDLY PRODUCTS As a result of all these practices and works, we have reduced organic AND SERVICES wastes by 17% as against 2013 and we exhibited a performance DEVELOPMENT surpassing the target we had set as 10%. REPORT Click here to watch. 50 It is foreseen by many researches that water supply reserves will diminish in targets in this regard are achieving constant improvement within the scope of the coming years. During the period of draught we went through in Turkey in waste management studies, reducing the amount of hazardous waste, and 2014, we have experienced once again the importance of the efficient use of the reuse, recovery and recycling of wastes. We keep wastes generated by water resources as a nation. production, with a high potential of polluting the air, such as dust and gas, in treatment systems with the purpose of preserving the air quality. %52 In parallel with the long termed business %31 G4-EN8, G4-EN10, We reduced our In 2014, we have reduced the amount of hazardous waste plans we make in accordance with our G4-EN22, G4-EN26, well water generated by 31% as against the year 2010. In addition we consumption rate environmental approach, we aim to have We reduced our G4-EN28, G4-DMA by 52% have achieved a 30% reduction in the amount of stored compared to 2008. reduced our water consumption by 61% in hazardous waste rate household waste per production ton also as against 2010, 2020, as against the year 2008. With the contribution of our projects such as by 31% compared by composting organic wastes which are part of biological treatment water gains, efficiency studies at various treatment and to 2010. nonhazardous wastes. discharge points within production processes and spreading the use of equipment ensuring less water consumption, we have consumed 438.486 m3 Hazardous Wastes (Ton) of water in 2014, realizing a reduction of 52% as against our 2008 958 consumption which was 910.627 m3. As against the year 2013, this figure 761 681 661 corresponds to a 1%* improvement. 640 Total Well Water Consumption (m3) 677.934 567.362 530.738 443.755 2010 2011 2012* 2013* 2014* 438.486 BRİSA 2014 Household Type Nonhazardous Wastes (Kg/ Production ton) SUSTAINABILITY 3,82 REPORT 3,70 2,71 2,64 2010 2011 2012* 2013* 2014* 2,37 ENVIRONMENTAL APPROACH One of our important targets is to reduce the amount of household waste ENERGY AND water generated as a result of our operational processes to zero. In the EMISSION reporting period we have discharged 309.724 m3 of water. 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 MANAGEMENT > EFFICIENT USE OF Within the context of our understanding of conducting sustainable operations We support the process of the collecting, in compliance NATURAL RESOURCES with regulations, and recycling of worn out tyres for the beyond legal requirements, we observe and track the legal compliance of our AND LESS WASTE benefit of the environment and economy carried out by RESPECT FOR treatment facilities alongside that of the water discharged to the collector of Tyre Industrialists Association (LASDER), of which we are BIODIVERSITY Izmit Water and Sewerage Administration after being treated at the biological the founding member. In the year 2014, LASDER collected ENVIRONMENT treatment facility, through periodical measurements. a total of 107.935 tons of tyres for recycling. FRIENDLY PRODUCTS AND SERVICES As an important result of our understanding of responsible production, we We register the packaging waste generated by our operations. In accordance DEVELOPMENT with Packaging Waste Control Regulations, we ensure that a certain ratio of carefully consider the environmental impacts that will occur during the use REPORT the packaging materials of marketed products, set according to annually and consumption of our products at the stage of design, we care to use raw increasing recovery goals, are collected and recycled through the agency of materials with no contamination or health risk, and we realize works for Environmental Protection and Packaging Waste Recovery and Recycling preventing the generation of wastes at the source. Our most significant Foundation (ÇEVKO). In the year 2014, this ratio was realized at the level of 2 tons. 51 RESPECT FOR BIODIVERSITY Within the context of reducing our environmental impact, we avoid all In the year 2013, we developed and actualized a G4-EN11, G4-EN12, processes that might have a negative impact on biodiversity. In accordance, project for the cranes of Anatolia in collaboration G4-EN13, G4-EN14, we also evaluate biodiversity as a significant component when determining with WWF-Turkey (World Wildlife Foundation). G4-SO1, G4-DMA our strategies for reducing our environmental impact. Within the scope of the “Turnalar Hep Uçsun” (Let Cranes Fly Forever) project, we work to Within the context of the Environmental Impact Assessment (ÇED) sustain the endangered crane population Regulations, we ensure that the risks presented by our new investments for inhabiting Turkey. We provide support for the biodiversity are evaluated by accredited institutions. Works conducted in project through funds we transfer from the this regard indicate that there are no regions under protection on or near incomes of Brisa Academy e-training and Brisa Museum. We also aim to Brisa’s operation field where it might endanger biodiversity. contribute to the National Crane Action Plan being prepared by the Directorate of Nature Conservation and National Parks through this project. Alper Ünal Brisa – Internal Audit Specialist Let the Cranes Fly Forever BRİSA 2014 Brisa started the “Turnalar Hep Uçsun” (Let SUSTAINABILITY Cranes Fly Forever) project in order to REPORT protect the endangered species of Crane in cooperation with WWF-Turkey due to its ENVIRONMENTAL APPROACH sensitivity toward natural life, while celebrating its 25th year. ENERGY AND Within the scope of this project, I have attended an Origami Activity at EMISSION an elementary school in Adana’s Yumurtalik district and the Crane MANAGEMENT Observation Activity in the Çukurova Delta where cranes spend the EFFICIENT USE OF winter. I believe the program realized together with elementary school NATURAL RESOURCES AND LESS WASTE students on Sunday December 21st, 2014, aiming to enable cranes, an > RESPECT FOR endangered species, to subsist safely and to preserve the species, was BIODIVERSITY significant for us and for elementary school students. Through this ENVIRONMENT program, we have also contributed to the implementation of the FRIENDLY PRODUCTS National Crane Action Plan. AND SERVICES DEVELOPMENT REPORT Brisa, who conducts its activities with the mission of “presenting the society with superior values through sustainable growth”, fulfills its responsibilities before the future generations by investing in environmental sustainability projects in the field of biodiversity. 52 ENVIRONMENT FRIENDLY PRODUCTS AND SERVICES We develop our products and services with an environmentalist understanding, we take into consideration the environmental impacts our Mustafa Sert products will generate during their use and afterwards. We offer our Sertel Lojistik – G4-EN7, G4-EN27, Chairman of the Board of Directors customers “environment friendly” concept products with lower rolling G4-PR1, G4-PR3, resistance, lower noise emission levels and less weight. Within the scope of G4-DMA Operational Efficiency our strategy of “enhancing environmentalist product portfolio” we monitor the “weighted average rolling resistance” and “environmentalist product With the contribution of the consultancy portfolio rate” parameters of our products and we realize various projects service provided by Brisa, we determine tyres in this direction. thrown into the junkyard that are useable through field studies. By retreading these tyres we both save on new With the Ecopia series of environment-friendly tyres which is the first step tyre purchases and reduce our costs and we minimize our of our environment friendly products, our Greenways environmentalist environmental impact by reducing natural raw material use. passenger vehicle product by Lassa which we have designed by bringing We are thankful to Brisa for its sensitivity and for the supports it has together robustness, fuel saving and durability performances together, and provided. our Bandag tyre retreading service through which we contribute to the protection of the environment by reducing commercial tyre wastes we have a rich portfolio of environmentalist products and services. Besides, we reinforce our environment-friendly product and service understanding through the support we provide to the works for collecting and recycling BRİSA 2014 worn out tyres as a member of LASDER. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Fuel Efficiency ENVIRONMENTAL APPROACH By reducing rolling resistance in the tyres which we develop with new generation pattern designs and components without conceding the element ENERGY AND of safety in the segment of consumer products, we ensure direct EMISSION MANAGEMENT improvements in fuel saving. EFFICIENT USE OF NATURAL RESOURCES We sustainably increase the share of our products, whose label value for AND LESS WASTE this parameter is “C and above”, within our sales portfolio. Compared to the RESPECT FOR previous year, we have achieved an almost fourfold improvement in this BIODIVERSITY field. > ENVIRONMENT FRIENDLY PRODUCTS AND SERVICES FUEL EFFICIENCY DEVELOPMENT Passenger vehicle products Share in the domestic renewal sales market REPORT Label value 2012 2013 2014 2015 Target C and above %0,3 %5,4 %20,5 %37,9 E-F-G %99,7 %94,6 %79,5 %62,1 53 Ecopia EP150, nature’s safety Greenways Environment-Friendly tyre Tyre With Ecopia EP150, we provide high efficiency The nano-pro technology used in Greenways in fuel consumption by reducing the rolling tyres reduces rolling resistance and accordingly resistance of the tyre without compromising fuel consumption. Thanks to its special G4-EN27, G4-PR1, on safety. We have completed the localization environment-friendly pattern, Greenways G4-PR3, G4-DMA, of our EP150 product in 2014. facilitates gripping on dry and wet ground and G4-EN7 ensures a quiet and comfortable ride with its %9 lighter construction light construction and innovative design. %14 less rolling resistance %1,7 fuel efficiency %7 lighter construction %5 shorter wet ground stopping distance %37 less rolling resistance %15 more durable %5,5 fuel efficiency %8 shorter wet ground stopping distance Under normal conditions: According to TUV test results, compared to the previous %30 more durable generation Bridgestone. According to Brisa field test results; compared to Under normal conditions: competing tyres. According to TUV test results, compared to the previous generation Bridgestone. According to Brisa field test results; compared to competing tyres. BRİSA 2014 SUSTAINABILITY We reduce natural resource use We offer fleet management REPORT with Bandag retreading service solutions with Profleet ENVIRONMENTAL With our Bandag retreading service which We ensure the economical use of natural APPROACH falls within the scope of our tyre resources with Profleet fleet management management, we save up to 40% in the tyre We have ensured 6% fuel ENERGY AND EMISSION 127.000 costs of fleets while substantially contributing to the protection of natural resources and to and 7,5 million TL worth solutions, our consultancy service intended for heavy vehicle fleets. Through our The number of tyres of tyre savings through MANAGEMENT the national economy through quality solutions within the scope of Profleet, we retreaded within the materials and the right production conditions. vehicle and tyre EFFICIENT USE OF ensure fuel saving and minimize NATURAL RESOURCES scope of the By retreading and reusing tyres, we triple maintenances services environmental impact with less waste. In the AND LESS WASTE Bandag service. their lifecycle and we contribute to we provided within year 2014, we have examined the customer RESPECT FOR environmental protection through less tyre the context of Profleet. waste. Through the retreading of a truck or field and provided trainings in 2.639 regions BIODIVERSITY > ENVIRONMENT bus tyre, 55 kg can be saved on raw material across Turkey, within the scope of Profleet. FRIENDLY PRODUCTS use, 60 kg of waste can be prevented and CO2 We have also analyzed 382.370 tyres during AND SERVICES emission can be reduced by 30%. In addition, our visits. DEVELOPMENT the retreading process consumes about 70% REPORT less diesel than the production process. 54 BRİSA 2014 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ENVIRONMENTAL APPROACH ENERGY AND EMISSION MANAGEMENT EFFICIENT USE OF NATURAL RESOURCES AND LESS WASTE RESPECT FOR BIODIVERSITY > ENVIRONMENT FRIENDLY PRODUCTS AND SERVICES DEVELOPMENT REPORT 55 DEVELOPMENT REPORT WHAT DID WE 2014 OUR 2015 AIM FOR STATUS PERFORMANCE TARGETS IN THE YEAR 2014? DISCLOSURE We aimed to bring together robustness, We enriched our environmentalist fuel consumption and durability product portfolio with our first We aim to reduce our well water performances with our first environmentalist passenger vehicle product Greenways which we put on consumption by 61% as against 2008, by environmentalist passenger vehicle product Greenways, market with our Lassa brand. the year 2020, To localize our EP150 product, We completed the localization process To participate in the CDP-water of our EP150 product. program, In 2014, we consumed 438.486 tons of To reduce our well water consumption To reduce our total carbon dioxide water achieving a reduction of 52% as by 61% as against 2008, by the year 2020 against our 2008 consumption which emission per product ton by 25% as was 910.627 m3. against 2005, by the year 2020, To reduce our total carbon dioxide Thanks to the works we accomplished with the awareness if the risks brought To continue Green Office works, emission per product ton by 25% as about by climate change, we have against 2005, by the year 2020, improved our emission amount per To continue CDP-climate change BRİSA 2014 production ton by 12,5% in comparison to the year 2008. reporting, SUSTAINABILITY To start Green Office works in We started the Green Office program REPORT collaboration with WWF, with WWF-Turkey. To obtain ISO 50001 Energy Management System certification , We reduced our carbon dioxide emission ENVIRONMENTAL To minimize the carbon dioxide emission caused by our logistics operations by improving our route optimization APPROACH index parameter by 2,2% and by To retread 158.000 tyres as part of our through route planning that we will increasing our truck capacity usage rate Bandag service. implement for domestic tyre ENERGY AND to 93%. distribution, EMISSION MANAGEMENT We retreaded 127.000 tyres as part of To retread 150.000 tyres as part of our our Bandag service. EFFICIENT USE OF Bandag service, NATURAL RESOURCES To continue CDP-climate change We prepared our 2014 CDP-climate AND LESS WASTE reporting, change report. RESPECT FOR BIODIVERSITY To continue calculating the carbon We had our carbon dioxide emission data verified within the context of ISO 14064 ENVIRONMENT dioxide emissions generated by our Standard. FRIENDLY PRODUCTS operations and validating them through AND SERVICES third parties within the scope of ISO 14064 Standard. > DEVELOPMENT REPORT Completed In Progress Incomplete 56 5 WORK LIFE We continue to add value to business life in line with our essential strategy of “ Become Employer of Choice” and we design the future together. We approach our employees honestly and justly, we form a nondiscriminatory, safe and healthy working environment. We acknowledge occupational health and safety to be an inseparable part of every work we do and a major priority in all our operations. We make the necessary effort for corporate development and the personal development of our employees. Shared Measured our Repeated our our vision and objectives organizational employee for the future with our climate and planned engagement survey. employees at our our actions. Vision Meeting. We organized a Sustainability Day BRİSA 2014 with the participation of 152 40,54* SUSTAINABILITY of our employees aiming at Annual average Increased Provided REPORT ensuring the generalization hours of training our female a total of 23.t856 of the concept of sustainability per person for employee hours of training to > WORK LIFE throughout the corporation number by and raising awareness. our employees. 3.592 people OCCUPATIONAL %37 through Brisa Academy. HEALTH AND SAFETY APPROACH Provided DEVELOPMENT Our incidence rate Provided a total of a total of JOURNEY was realized as 0,86 Continued 1.566 hours of training EMPLOYEE RIGHTS 9.134 hours to 783 of our employees DEVELOPMENT and our severity “Occupational Safety of training to 2.675 REPORT rate as 12,27. Basic Activities” in the Brisa MEC Occupational of our employees Safety Training and Practice Room. practices at Brisa MEC. 57 We actualize Occupational Health and Safety practices which we support Nilgün Özkan through national and international standards and management systems for Brisa – Human Resources and our employees and stakeholders to work in a healthy and safe working Corporate Development Director environment. Equality at Work We realize all the works we conduct for creating a participatory working In 2013, after signing the UN Global Compact environment for our employees, strengthening our communication with and Equility at Work Declaration, in 2014, we them, activating the accord between individual targets and our strategies form our project in two groups; Recruitment and ensuring the development of our processes as part of our “Corporate and Awereness project that increase the employment rate and review Development Journey”. processes in departments with less women employee and Support Projects that sustain work-life process of our women employees and We support our employees through personal development programs within candidates. the context of “Our Employees’ Leadership and Development Journey” and we implement enriched development programs aimed at the future leaders In this area, we win the grand award in “Work Equility” category in of Brisa. Sabancı Gold Collar Award with our performance. Increased We carry on realization of our politics and process applications by our female prioritizing equality of opportunity and recognizing that social employee sustainability can only be achieved with equality. number by %37 With our programs developed for our women employees such as “Design the work/life you love”, “Safe driving techniques”, coaching and voluntery mentoring, we create an environment sustaining work-family life balance. In 2015, we intend to increase our programmes with Brisa Academy and to reach different stakeholder groups such as suppliers, business partners and customers by enlightening our approach and BRİSA 2014 increasing communication. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT For improving our equal opportunity approach, we carry on claming the > WORK LIFE subject and care to generate value. OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY APPROACH DEVELOPMENT JOURNEY EMPLOYEE RIGHTS DEVELOPMENT REPORT 58 OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY APPROACH Occupational Health and Safety is one of the most important components of In the context of Bridgestone Safety Mission Statement, works for our operational sustainability. In this regard, we regard occupational health preventing labor accidents are conducted at Brisa through awareness and safety as an inseparable part of the work in every operation we raising studies, systematic approaches and engineering approaches. As conduct. part of proactive risk prevention works we assess periodical machine, operation and behavior focused risks. We develop and implement action By ensuring compliance with international standards beyond national legal plans for the elimination of the risks determined In consequence of the regulations regarding occupational health and safety, we strive to further analyses. improve our performance in this field. In this context, while complying with all legal regulations concerning safety risks in our country, our facilities also have OHSAS 18001 Occupational Health and Safety Management Systems certificate. BRİSA 2014 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT WORK LIFE > OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY APPROACH DEVELOPMENT JOURNEY EMPLOYEE RIGHTS DEVELOPMENT REPORT 59 Risk Analysis Studies Our incidence rate Our Target is ‘0’ Accident! was realized as In 2014, we realized 26 risk analysis studies in the field of production with the support of all Technical groups (CTO) team. Thanks to risk elimination 0,86 In our groups dependent on the Directorate of and our severity Engineering, 4 departments completed 1.990 projects based on field observations we have achieved the best results to this day in terms of days without accidents for the majority of production rate as 12,27 days and 2 departments 1.260 days without any working accidents in accordance with our G4-LA5, G4-LA6, facilities. Besides we rehabilitated fire detection and extinction systems, G4-LA7, G4-DMA working principles of “Let’s Follow Occupational Safety Rules for Our Family” processes and equipment through fire prevention projects we conducted in and “Think a Minute before Starting Work”. All our departments dependent order to minimize fire risks. We conducted 22 projects pursued by our on Brisa Directorate of Technology completed 1.685 days, Tyre Manufacture 2 employees within the scope of the “Critical Machine Elevation Plan” prepared every year in order to prevent major risks that might affect business department of the Directorate of Production 360 days and Stock Organization continuity. 1 department 1.310 days without any working days. Brisa Occupational Safety Basic Activities Incidence Rate (IR) The “Occupational Safety Basic Activities” 1,37 0,86 0,71 Continued program which we started in 2013 in order to 0,74 0,69 “Occupational Safety further our existing occupational safety activities was elected as an exemplary practice among Basic Activities” Bridgestone Factories and we were invited to practices share it at the 43rd Occupational Health and Safety Conference organized in Tokyo, Japan. 2010 2011 2012* 2013* 2014* Incidence Rate (IR) = Lost work day incident * 200.000 / Annual working hours As part Occupational Safety Basic Activities, we started the three years long 3S project which aims at ensuring a safer working environment for Severity Rate (IR) employees. Through the project, we aim to ensure that all employees work in a safe, clean and organized environment during the production process and 26,91 15,13 BRİSA 2014 to form a factory environment free from scraps and defective products. 3S 14,79 13,42 SUSTAINABILITY 12,27 prescribes that first the equipment that needs to be present at the working REPORT field be determined and unnecessary ones removed, then the amount and WORK LIFE place of the required equipment be determined, and lastly that the working field be always maintained clean. During the reporting period we have > OCCUPATIONAL redesigned 52% of our production fields with the 3S rationale. We aim to 2010 2011 2012* 2013* 2014* HEALTH AND SAFETY accomplish arrangements for all of our production fields by 2015 yearend. APPROACH Severity Rate (SR) = Lost work days * 200.000 / Annual working hours DEVELOPMENT For our employees to adopt safe working behaviors as a lifestyle is one of the JOURNEY EMPLOYEE RIGHTS Our Occupational Health and Safety Committee, which represents all of our issues we especially care about. In this regard we believe in the particular DEVELOPMENT workforce, monitors the occupational safety performance of Brisa within the significance of Occupational Health and Safety trainings. We make use of REPORT scope of the monthly assessments it performs. Our Occupational Health and Brisa-MEC Occupational Safety Training and Practice Room in our facility as Safety Committee and Occupational Safety and Environment Committee an active training area. perform the analysis of working accidents and prepare preventive plans to avoid their recurrence. 60 As part of BRİSA-MEC (Manufacturing Education Center) activities, we Supplier and organize training programs that last for 30 hours under 9 headings with the Subcontractor Incidence Severity title “Standard Training Program” aiming at raising awareness among our OHS Indicators Rate (IR) Rate (SR) by Years employees in the subjects of occupational safety, fire, quality, environment, and problem solving, as well as increasing their consciousness regarding 2012 1,60 36,16 the risks in the production field and developing their basic skills. We have 2013 0,62 10,43 G4-LA7, G4-DMA 2014 0,99 26,88 provided Disaster Prevention (Fire and Earthquake) (739 employees) and Occupational Safety and Health trainings (1.153 employees), the first two We are tasked with the presidency of the Occupational Health and Safety headings which we started in 2013, to 94% f our employees. In 2015, we will Work Group of Turkish Business World and Sustainable Development complete the remaining 6% and continue the training program with our 3rd Association and we actively participate in the works. heading, Suru-Raku & 3S trainings. As of 2018 yearend, all of our blue collar employees will have received training in all the headings of the Standard Training Program. Tamay Aydın Brisa – Leader Operator Provided a total of 1.566 hours of training We aim to increase the level of to 783 of our employees occupational safety consciousness and Work safety comes before our work in the Brisa MEC Occupational awareness against risks among our I have been assigned in different units of the Safety Training and employees through our new training Production Control Department for ten years Practice Room. program “Occupational Safety and I continue working as Shift Responsible Simulation” trainings which we started in 2014. As of 2015 yearend we will have completed “Occupational Safety Simulation” trainings, from which 783 We act with a responsible perspective starting with the top management employees have benefited during our first year, for all of our blue collar and reaching to us throughout the organization in the issue of employees and we will continue repeating these trainings for every occupational safety. We absolutely do not operate machines with an employee in two-year periods. occupational safety issue; we foresee even the smallest risks that our friends on the field might encounter and we take action swiftly. By determining abnormal situations that might occur and including them among working standards, we increase the awareness of our operators. BRİSA 2014 Brisa-MEC Occupational Safety SUSTAINABILITY Training and Practice Room draws REPORT During the time I worked here, I have attended Occupational Health and interest from other companies Safety, 8 Basic Occupational Safety Rules, First Aider Training and WORK LIFE within the context of benchmarking ADME (Emergency Intervention Team) trainings in the field of studies. occupational health and safety. > OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY APPROACH These trainings enabled me to be more conscious and meticulous about DEVELOPMENT occupational safety. I convey these information to my family and my Our Occupational Health and Safety practices involve our subcontractors JOURNEY environment. For instance, I taught my wife how to use the fire EMPLOYEE RIGHTS and suppliers within the context of our value chain on the factory field. We extinguisher. Also, I taught her the Heimlich maneuver which involved DEVELOPMENT ensure that these stakeholders receive OHS and Environment trainings putting pressure on the abdomen for cases of suffocation – choking, as REPORT aimed at the management of accident free performance. Besides we review part first aid practices. I helped a patient having an epileptic seizure in the performance of our suppliers and subcontractors in this field through daily life and prevented her from getting injured. regular meetings. 61 DEVELOPMENT Organizational Development JOURNEY Organizational Culture We conduct studies in relation to the process-based and customer-oriented culture which we have been aiming at since 2009 when we started change management. G4-LA11, G4-DMA Shared We have been investing in creativity and innovation and encouraging entrepreneurship our vision and objectives since the year 2009, thereby approximating our current culture to the culture for the future with our we aim for. employees at our Vision Meeting. Climate & Management Styles Measured our Since the year 2007, we have been organizational measuring Climate and Management climate We adopt an integrative understanding for managing corporate Styles annually. We try to determine the and planned sustainability by blending approaches that will contribute to sustainability our actions. difference between the ideal climate and in economic, social and environmental dimensions. our current climate. The difference between ideal and current climate is %26 in six climate dimensions. We We continue our development journey by enriching and strengthening our determined improvements to decrease this difference to our target which is less than programs aimed at our organization, processes and employees and by %20 recognizing that our programs is adding not only our employee but their Employee Engagement Survey Repeated family and society. We periodically measure Employee Engagement our employee engagement and we focus our improvement plans on its Corporate results. survey. Development Journey Results of our 2014 Employee Engagement assessment: • Turkey average for our White Collar Employees 53%, Brisa’s evaluation 62% • Turkey average for our Blue Collar Employees 41%, Brisa’s evaluation 58% On our corporate development journey, we aim to strengthen our BRİSA 2014 communication with employees, to create good practice models Performance Management SUSTAINABILITY and a participatory and dynamic working environment which has We implement our Corporate and Individual performance evaluation REPORT internalized innovation, entrepreneurship and change, by ensuring process through the dissemination of corporate strategies and WORK LIFE the development of our organization and processes. objectives in all functions, departments and employees. OCCUPATIONAL We strive to turn the approaches we form for organizational and In addition to performance evaluations, we have performed 360' competence evaluation for 385 of our employees. HEALTH AND SAFETY process development into best practice examples. We act with the APPROACH principle of fairness in performance evaluation processes and we Career Management > DEVELOPMENT JOURNEY strive to strengthen the coherence of the individual objectives of We create potential, backup and rotation maps of our company and EMPLOYEE RIGHTS our employees with corporate strategies. plan organization scenarios involving all our organization. We ensure DEVELOPMENT that our employees are personally evaluated in relation to their REPORT strong and developing skills and that they are offered feedback through the development center practice in the process of promotion. 31 employees in 2015, and 109 in total, participated in the development center and received personal feedback. 62 Our performance management process includes the stages of target setting, Project House mid-term evaluation and year-end evaluation. With our integrated human We determine and prioritize our projects and project portfolio in line resource system Brinsan, we ensure the consonance of our strategies with our strategies. We maximize the impact of our projects by making defined at Brisa Strategy House with individual performance targets. In this adequate use of our resources. way, we motivate our employees about achieving their individual targets and contributing to our vision and strategic targets. We ensure that all our white We started the software application of our project and portfolio management system “Project House”. G4-DMA collar employees are interviewed, at least twice during an evaluation period, We provided 30 employees with 550 hours of project in relation to their performance level and development needs and that they receive feedback. We organize trainings and development programs in order to generalize the culture of feedback. We ensure the effective implementation of the feedback process through Brinsan performance Suru-Raku Philosophy module. Suru-Raku, a philosophy which Provided 384 man*hour of emphasizes that standards must be Process Development Suru-Raku training uninterruptedly complied with in all to 24 employees. operational processes within the scope Benchmarking of quality product and service production and turns improvement Every year, we realize interviews and form action plans for prioritized activities into a component of this process, is among our essential areas. corporate values. We performed 25 benchmarking studies for our corporate development projects and priority issues. We have provided 24 employees with 384 man*hour Suru-Raku and Problem Solving training for the dissemination of the Suru-Raku Brinsan philosophy and participants shared the projects they prepared Through Brinsan, we review all human resources processes and keep with the executive team. The number of employees we have them under the same roof by including improvements. trained to ensure the propagation of the Suru-Raku philosophy reached 155, whereas the total hours of training reached 2.294 We made performed needs assessment in Training and Development Modules, and hours. improvements in the steps of Development Plan and monitoring 3600 Reports. BRİSA 2014 SUSTAINABILITY Within the scope of the Brisa 10th Suru-Raku Conference we REPORT Strategy House organized in 2014, 7 teams constituted by 27 of our employees We model our processes in line with our strategies to measure their shared their projects with all Brisa employees. WORK LIFE performance, make improvements and materialize change OCCUPATIONAL We conducted the “SEI – Strategy Implementation” survey and we formed our action plan. HEALTH AND SAFETY We reviewed our strategies at the two day workshop together with the top management. APPROACH > DEVELOPMENT JOURNEY Process House EMPLOYEE RIGHTS We model our processes in line with our strategies to measure their DEVELOPMENT performance, make improvements and materialize change REPORT We reviewed and modeled 422 processes explaining detailed business flows. We provided 75 employees with 1.450 hours of process management training. 63 Employees’ Leadership LGP Leader Development Program We support the leadership competences of our and Development Journey supervisors and foremen through our development program consisting of personal development and We support the personal development of follow-up programs. our employees in the process we call We started our 3rd leadership development program aimed at First Level Managers with Brisa Journey. We also design and G4-43, G4-LA10, the participation of 14 people. 40 of our employees have participated in this program to implement development programs for G4-DMA this day. 40,54* future Brisa leaders according to their Annual average competences. Besides providing our ELYP Team Leader Development Program hours of training employees with professional We support our blue collar employees preparing for team leadership per person for competences, we offer them through an extensive program supporting their personal, technical and our employees. environments that strengthen their leadership competences for their journey. motivation and we carry out projects and activities that allow them to transfer their We started the 5th Group of our program, which is a first in its sector, with 19 new accumulation to the society. participants. 141 employees have hitherto attended this program. Leadership Journey Tim Bright SALT Sabancı Leader Team OneWorld Consulting – Consultant We evaluate our senior management based on the climate they create, their management style and 360° Coaching and development competences annually and we support them through The aim of the Manager as coach programme development programs such as personal coaching. is to support and challenge managers to coach their own teams more effectively. This means having conversations with them that We supported our leaders through personal coaching processes. focus on their own development. There are two important issues of sustainability here. Mid-Level Managers– Leadership Workshop Firstly we are making the organisation more sustainable by helping BRİSA 2014 We include our mid-level managers in programs that our managers develop the next generation of managers, within the SUSTAINABILITY will develop their leadership competences. organisation, themselves. Secondly, the aim of the manager coach is REPORT to encourage the employee to find their own solutions and to learn how to develop themselves, which is also a sustainable form of WORK LIFE leadership development. * Mentoring * 360 Evaluation and Leadership WS * Manager as Coach / Coaching Supervision We have seen a gradual change in the organisational culture, with OCCUPATIONAL * Performance Management / Recruitment Techniques * Development Planning / employees coming to managers ready for coaching, and expecting to HEALTH AND SAFETY One-to-one Coaching * Management Simulation * Future Forums (Sabancı Market solve their own problems themselves, and ready for their manager to APPROACH Orientation Program) ask questions, rather than provide answers. Also through this > DEVELOPMENT 76 of our managers benefited from coaching programs while 73 of our manager and method employees are encouraged to think more for themselves and JOURNEY use their own inner resources to develop themselves and solve employees benefited from mentoring programs. EMPLOYEE RIGHTS problems. DEVELOPMENT “Coaching for managers” program helps managers improve their own REPORT team and have quality talks about the development of employees and contributes significantly to sustainability. 64 Development Journey Global Training Program Together with our partner, we provide an opportunity for our employees Orientation to learn and gain global business experience by working at Bridgestone We start off every employee with our orientation process regarding Brisa establishments around the world. and our practices. A total of 7 employees from our Production, Technology and Marketing functions participated in this program. * Brisa Overview (All Departments & Model Store & Field Trip & Museum) * Occupational G4-LA10, G4-DMA Safety & Health * SA-Etik * Competition Law * Information Security * Sustainability We provided 611 hours of ethics training within the scope of our orientation program. Merve Gülşen Employees Contributing to the Climate Brisa – Agricultural Radial and Bias We invest in all our employees through our programs for Tyres Development Engineer developing their personal competences and their business skills. Sustainability Journey I have been working at Brisa for about a year. * Competences and Self Knowledge * Conflict Management & Influence Persuasion * During this time, besides technical trainings, Finance for non-financiers * Presentation Techniques * Business Simulations * Outdoor social responsibility projects and personal A total of 208 employees have attended this program to this day. development seminars I participated, I have also attended an entertaining orientation program about Brisa’s Sustainability activities. BRISA MEC Brisa Manufacturing Education Center We support the technical knowledge and skills of our In this orientation program realized in Istanbul’s historic and cultural Provided employees in our Technical Groups function within the a total of 9.134 places, I have learned about the mission of our company and its scope of a systematic program with the structuring of hours of training sensitivity about leaving future generations a more livable world by to 2.675 of our MEC. employees at Brisa MEC. answering questions chosen from Brisa Sustainability Report. I think the Sustainability Journey Orientation Program is an entertaining Brisa Academy practice effective in creating the awareness of “being a part of Brisa” We support the technical knowledge and skills of our in new employees. employees in our Technical Groups function within the Provided scope of a systematic program with the structuring of Brisa has a working environment that entrepreneur employees with a BRİSA 2014 a total of 23.856 SUSTAINABILITY hours of training to MEC. strong will to succeed, who want to design their career journeys in the REPORT 3.592 people most “sustainable” manner, will enjoy. I have been proud and happy of through Brisa Academy. being a part of this family, which considers the environment and people WORK LIFE while achieving the goals it determines and creates awareness, since Technical Professional Development & Management Systems We develop programs to support our change and development processes the very first day. OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY in parallel with corporate strategies and convey them to our employees APPROACH promptly. SUSTAINABILITY JOURNEY > DEVELOPMENT We organized a Sustainability Day with the participation of 152 employees in order to ensure JOURNEY the generalization of the concept of sustainability within the corporation and to raise EMPLOYEE RIGHTS awareness. We ensured the participation of 4 of our employees in Corporate Sustainability certificate DEVELOPMENT programs. REPORT Click here to watch. 65 EMPLOYEE RIGHTS As Brisa, providing an environment where our employees can work efficiently, happily and productively during their working life is among our Business Ethics Approach essential priorities. The prevalence of mutual love, respect and trust G4-41, G4-56, G4-57, matters for the sustainability of our working environment. In order to Creating a dignified working environment respectful of human rights G4-58, G4-EC3, G4-LA2, achieve this, we ensure a transparent communication as well as the active matters deeply to us. For this reason, we adopt the principle of providing G4-LA8, G4-LA15, implementation of ethical rules, we collect stakeholder feedbacks equal opportunities for all our employees under equal conditions in all G4-LA16, G4-HR2, effectively and we actively evaluate development points. stages beginning with recruitment. In light of our understanding of fairness G4-HR4, G4-HR5, G4-HR6, G4-DMA Business Relations and we take precautions against all kinds of discrimination. We periodically review our Human Rights approach and we conduct improvement works. Union Rights Our Ethics Understanding Honesty: We conduct our relations with our employees and all our Providing our employees with the opportunity to work in a dignified working stakeholders on the basis of transparency and honesty. environment based on mutual trust is among our priorities. In parallel, we Confidentiality: We care for the confidentiality of the private respect all of our employees’ basic rights emanating from constitutional and international agreements, such as organization, unionization and information of our customers, employees and other relevant individuals collective bargaining. and institutions we work with. Conflict of Interest: We make use of our Sabancı identity, not for our In accordance with importance we attach to sustainable labor peace, there personal benefit, but to exalt the corporate spirit. is a transparent and constant communication between our Company Our Responsibilities: Our responsibility is not only to the benefit of our Management and Union Management, one of our significant stakeholders. business and partners but also to the whole society and humanity. All our blue collar workers are members of the Turkish Union of Petrol, Chemistry and Tyre Industry Workers (Lastik-İş). The most significant determinant of our Business Ethics approach is Sabancı Group Business Ethics Guidelines (SA-ETİK). We share our business ethics approach with our external stakeholders in different BRİSA 2014 Collective Labor Contract Practice settings in order to extend it throughout our value chain. Besides our SUSTAINABILITY Negotiations for the 18th Period Collective Labor Agreement between internal communication works aimed at our internal stakeholders, our REPORT Turkish Union of Petrol, Chemistry and Tyre Industry Workers and the employees have a chance to update their knowledge regarding business Company, covering the 24 month period between January 1st 2014 and ethics guidelines every year, with an e-learning program. WORK LIFE December 31st 2015, were started on January 17th 2014; the Collective Labor Agreement concerning this period was signed with the In the reporting period, we have provided a total of 611 hours of Business OCCUPATIONAL agreement of parties on March 3rd 2014. Ethics, 1.218 hours of Competition Law, and 968 hours of Sustainability HEALTH AND SAFETY APPROACH training to our employees. In addition to the wages of employees included in the Collective Labor DEVELOPMENT Agreement and those excluded, we provide them with benefits such as a JOURNEY We completely satisfy the requirements of laws, regulations, labor premium worth their 4 month gross wage, Personal Retirement Insurance > EMPLOYEE RIGHTS legislation and initiatives of which we are a member. We expect the full (BES), health insurance, and life insurance for those not covered. We DEVELOPMENT compliance we ensure in the issue of preventing child labor and provide benefits such as annual leave allowance, maternity benefit, death REPORT forced/compulsory labor from our stakeholders in our value chain, such as benefit, matrimony benefit, education support, family-food aid, and child suppliers, business partners, and subcontractors. In the reporting period, allowance only for employees included in the Collective Labor Agreement. We also provide food and transportation services for all our employees. there was no complaint conveyed to us in the related issues. 66 DEVELOPMENT REPORT WHAT DID WE 2014 OUR 2015 AIM FOR STATUS PERFORMANCE TARGETS IN THE YEAR 2014? DISCLOSURE We aimed to constitute the We determined our action We aim to form activity plans steps of action for our plans. devoted to university students “Employer Branding” project, in the context of “Employer Branding”, To review and plan our We continue planning our processes in relation to our new processes in relation to our new investment. We have formed To continue working within the investment, our Project Office (PMO) scope of our plans concerning structuring and detailed project our new investment, plan. To carry out the pilot To support the We provided training for 22 Entrepreneurship Day practice, development program devoted people with the joint to the development of participation of industrial group entrepreneurial competence, To organize joint information companies. meetings with all the To organize information management and 6 different meetings with our managers We planned to hold information séances for our and employees about climate & informational meetings in 2015. mid-level managers about culture and engagement Our Results for the Year 2014 climate & culture and results, were realized as White Collar engagement results, 62% and Blue Collar 52%. To perform midterm short To repeat our Employee We directed our employees who assessments to be able to track BRİSA 2014 Engagement survey, received 360 reports to prepare Employee Engagement SUSTAINABILITY their development plans. improvement, REPORT To prepare and monitor individual development plans We planned for the time The integration of the process for our employees in line with management module to go live of forming a Development Plan WORK LIFE 360° evaluation reports, in 2015. We conducted our with the process of training and Brinsan Satisfaction Survey and performance in order to our results were realized as internalize it, OCCUPATIONAL 88%. HEALTH AND SAFETY To put the Time Management APPROACH To develop a time management We completed our new logo and Module, Nakisa and Mobile DEVELOPMENT module through Brinsan and to visual designs. application processes into form improvement steps in all We started our Sustainability practice, JOURNEY existing modules, to conduct Journey program with 3 groups EMPLOYEE RIGHTS the Brinsan satisfaction survey and 60 participants. > DEVELOPMENT with all our users, REPORT Completed In Progress Incomplete 67 DEVELOPMENT REPORT WHAT DID WE 2014 OUR 2015 AIM FOR STATUS PERFORMANCE TARGETS IN THE YEAR 2014? DISCLOSURE To create a new logo and visual We completed our new logo and To provide information for the design for our Training & visual designs. extensive usage and Development programs, explanation of the logo and visuals we have designed for To design a training program our Training & Development dealing with the concept of Sustainability holistically, in a We started our Sustainability programs, way that will introduce the Journey program with 3 groups concept to all our employees To enrich and maintain our during their orientation and to and 60 participants. Sustainability Journey program actualize the “Sustainability with new participants, Journey” orienteering program, To continue our practices To provide Competition Law We provide Competition Law concerning Competition Law trainings for new recruits as training for all new recruits in training. part of the Orientation program, the Orientation process. We also started an information and refreshing training for our employees once a year. To sustain our Occupational We maintain our practices. Safety Basic Activities practices BRİSA 2014 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT WORK LIFE OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY APPROACH DEVELOPMENT JOURNEY EMPLOYEE RIGHTS > DEVELOPMENT REPORT Completed In Progress Incomplete 68 G4-EC7, G4-EC8, G4-SO2, G4-DMA 6 SOCIETY RELATIONS We observe social benefit in all the activities we conduct and we embrace the understanding of “social responsibility conscious management” whereby we integrate stakeholder expectations in our business manner. We extend our sustainability studies with many projects that will contribute to social development, we take the active and volunteer participation of our widest stakeholder chain as the basis for our projects. We determine our social responsibility works in line with the principles of establishing favorable relations with the local community, benefiting social, cultural and economic development. Continued 54 first place providing support for 50 second place public institutions 34 third place Provided and civil initiatives. Our Brisaspor team 7.500 farmers continued its successes, across Turkey with efficient BRİSA 2014 we won a total of 138 medals. farming training. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT In the context > SOCIETY of Lassa RELATIONS “Yola Sağlam Çık” Reflector We provided counselling We were considered worthy CONTRIBUTION TO for Farmers Campaign, concerning nutrition and of an award in the category of TRAFFIC SAFETY we mounted reflectors healthy living to 2.281 heavy Food and Nutrition with CONRIBUTION TO SECTORAL on a total of 4.010 trailers in vehicle and long distance “Yola Sağlam Çık” by PRACTICES 13 provinces free of charge. drivers at 37 points. Turkish Public Health Association. CONTRIBUTION TO EDUCATION AND Organized our We have contributed Received SPORTS to over 300 students to LEED Gold Sustainable DEVELOPMENT this day and we continue REPORT to provide scholarships certification Change for 80 students through for our Brisa Academy Conference. Brisa Members Educational and Museum building. Support Association. 69 We take into consideration direct and indirect impacts on the local community in the planning and implementation stages of all our process, Bridgestone Safety Tyre we measure and take under control activities that might create a negative impact. We provide significant local employment in the regions where we With Bridgestone Safety Tyre campaign, which we conduct aimed at operate, we prioritize collaborations with local suppliers in purchasing automobile and light commercial vehicle drivers, we emphasize the processes. In order to be able to conduct systematic relations with the local importance of the safety belt while bringing to the attention of consumers community in our regions of operation, we work to achieve improvements G4-EC7, G4-EC8, G4-SO2, the significance of tyre tread depth and tyre pressure. In the context of the in the issues of stakeholder communication and feedback methods. G4-DMA Besides supporting social responsibility projects realized by H. Ömer campaign we performed tyre tread depth measurement, tyre pressure Sabancı Foundation, we also develop our own projects with the measurement and information for safe long distance driving at IDO piers participation of our stakeholders and our own resources. and on Susurluk Söke road which is frequented by vacationers, in order to ensure that vehicle owners continue their journeys safely during the Since our establishment, we have realized many successful social projects. festive holiday. We regard contributing in the issue of driving safety in traffic, which concerns the sector within which we operate directly, as our primary responsibility, we actualize projects to raise and expand awareness Yola Sağlam Çık regarding safe and secure driving in traffic. Besides we perceive creating value for the society through the contributions we provide in the fields of We continue our works towards increasing sectoral development, education and sports to be one of our priorities. “Yola Sağlam Çık” social awareness about safe and secure We provided counselling driving through informative projects we CONTRIBUTION TO concerning nutrition and prepare for heavy vehicle operators and healthy living to 2.281 heavy vehicle and long distance farmers on a variety of issues ranging from TRAFFIC SAFETY drivers at 37 points. healthy nutrition to physical exercises with the slogan “Yola Sağlam Çık”. We offered counselling about proper nutrition and healthy As one of the leading companies of the industry who became a signatory of living to 2.281 commercial vehicle drivers at 37 the “Corporate Traffic Safety Declaration” in the context of the points in the year 2014, and to approximately We were considered BRİSA 2014 “Responsibility in Traffic Movement”, we attach great importance to the worthy of an award 12.000 long distance drivers at 161 points since SUSTAINABILITY issues of safety in tyre and traffic, we regard the constitution of a safe and in the category of the beginning of the project. Our “Yola Sağlam REPORT sustainable traffic environment as the primary component of our social Food and Nutrition with responsibility. In this scope, we have actualized various training and Çık” project was deemed worthy of an award in “Yola Sağlam Çık” SOCIETY information practices alongside projects about safe and secure driving in by Turkish Public Health the category of Food and Nutrition by the RELATIONS traffic, in the reporting period. Association. Turkish Public Health Association. > CONTRIBUTION TO TRAFFIC SAFETY To the Tyre for a Safe Journey Lassa Reflector Campaign for Farmers CONRIBUTION TO We aim to create awareness regarding tyre tread depth, which is a very Provided We provided information and counselling SECTORAL important issue in the subject of safe driving, in the context of the “Güvenli 7.500 farmers services regarding productivity practices in PRACTICES Yolculuk için Lastik Başına” (To the Tyre for a Safe Journey) project we across Turkey with CONTRIBUTION TO efficient agriculture and agricultural economy to 7.500 implemented with our brands Lassa and Bridgestone. Within the scope of farming training. farmers in 140 villages in 13 provinces across EDUCATION AND the project, we realize the tread depth measurement of tyres at our SPORTS In the context of Turkey, with the participation of agricultural Otopratik sales and service points and we perform information works to DEVELOPMENT Lassa Reflector engineers. In the context of the project where raise the awareness of vehicle drivers. We provided tyre tread depth for Farmers REPORT measurement and information concerning the significance of tyre in traffic we provided a total of 170 hours of productive Campaign, safety for visiting vehicles in the parking lot of the activity area for the “5th we mounted reflectors agriculture training, we have also mounted Highway Traffic Safety Symposium and Exhibition” organized at Ankara ATO on a total of 4.010 trailers in 4.010 reflectors on tractor trailers. Congress Center which we supported as a sponso,r in the reporting period. 13 provinces free of charge. 70 CONRIBUTION TO SECTORAL PRACTICES We adopt experience and accumulation sharing as our corporate culture, we share our industry specific Bertrand Piccard, PhD. knowledge and experience on several platforms Initiator, pilot and Chairman G4-EC7, G4-EC8, G4-SO2, constituted by various public institutions and of Solar Impulse G4-DMA nongovernmental organizations. We take part of the Tyre Subcommittee (LAK) affiliated with the Motor Vehicles Technical Committee (MARTEK) of Renewable Energy the Ministry of Science, Industry and Technology and we provide technical We can halve the energy consumption in the support to the committee. world if we replace all of the old and inefficient technologies with today's clean and more energy Our CEO Hakan Bayman is currently the Chairman of the Board of the Tyre efficient technologies. This would protect the environment as well as Industrialists and Importers Association (LASID) which was founded in stimulate jog creation, profit and economical growth, as the world needs 2014 in order to improve tyre production and tyre industry by bringing tyre cleaner products. But we need to increase public awareness and demand manufacturers and importers in Turkey together and to share sectoral aroused from public opinion. The previous century was the period of activities concerning sustainability, public and transportation safety with the society. discovering and conquering the world. And the 21st century should be a period where we will discover how to increase the quality of life. Countries In the reporting period, we continued providing support for the Traffic such as Turkey, which do not have natural resources like oil and natural Safety Platform and sharing our industry specific knowledge and gas, should use this opportunity in their very public interest. As a experiences at the Tyre and Life Safety Workshop organized by the Ministry supporter of Solar Impulse journey, Brisa has undertaken a critical of Transportation, Maritime Affairs and Communication. Besides, our responsibility in its country regarding the matter. We would like to thank managers continued transferring their knowledge and experience by giving them for their pioneering role in Turkey. classes at universities as part of Sabanci Managers in Class Program. SUSTAINABLE CHANGE CONFERENCE BRİSA 2014 SUSTAINABILITY Sustainable Change Conference REPORT We opened Brisa Improvement Conferences, which we SOCIETY started in 1992 for our company employees, to the RELATIONS participation of institutions and companies from different sectors beginning in 1995, thereby acquiring an international CONTRIBUTION TO qualification. We named this platform, which has hosted over 200 Click here to watch. TRAFFIC SAFETY > CONRIBUTION TO presentations and 10.000 participants to this day, SECTORAL PRACTICES “Sustainable Change Conference” in 2014 deriving on our sustainability and CONTRIBUTION TO innovation approach. We brought together representatives of leading EDUCATION AND companies in the world and the industry at the conference which was SPORTS DEVELOPMENT organized for the 25th time last year. At the conference whose main theme REPORT was “Journey of the Future”, we have presented exemplary practices enriching the society concerning innovation in the age of digital communication and technology as well as sustainability to the participants. 71 Brisa Museum Brisa Snowball Volunteers During the reporting period, we have revised our processes We believe in the importance of raising the social responsibility awareness of related Brisa Museum, which is the first tyre museum of Brisa employees and stakeholders and of transferring their knowledge, Turkey, and we received LEED Gold certification. Brisa accumulation and skills to the society sustainably with a we-feeling. We G4-SO2, G4-EC7, Museum, which we have designed as a “Sustainable Green maintain “Brisa Snowball Volunteers” works, which we have been conducting G4-EC8, G4-DMA Building”, has the characteristics of an extensive archive for with this purpose since 2010, by taking part of the Volunteerism Training future generations. Program and Workshop Study with the support of Private Sector Volunteers Association (ÖSGD). We support female students receiving vocational At our Brisa Museum, whose main theme was identified as “Journey”, we tell education through Vocational High School Coaches program with the support the story of how Lassa/Brisa transformed from an industrial company into an of ÖSGD. innovation company offering a range of services besides the product. Alongside the corporate history of our company, we exhibit developments Brisaspor offering an insight to the history of the tyre industry, the anatomy of tyre and many other subjects to our visitors through interactive applications. Our Brisa Cycling Team, which we established in 1978 in accordance with our social sustainability and support for sports approach, has competed in a total CONTRIBUTION TO of 29 competitions, of which 18 National and 14 International, and achieved great successes in the 2014 season. EDUCATION AND SPORTS Our athletes, who played for the national team 18 times during 4 championships, won a total of 138 medals, of which 54 gold, 50 silver and 34 bronze, in 2014. We continue to provide support for the education of students with the income we receive from Brisa Academy virtual trainings and the fund we have BRİSA 2014 constituted through Brisa Members Educational Support Association. We SUSTAINABILITY Cansu Türkmenoğlu contribute to the spread of the cycling sport with our sports club Brisaspor. Brisaspor – Cyclist REPORT SOCIETY RELATIONS Brisa Members Educational Support Cycling Today, as the cycling interest is increasing, it is CONTRIBUTION TO Association very important to invest in this field and to TRAFFIC SAFETY support sportsman. The contribution of CONRIBUTION TO We continue to add value in the field of education through Brisaspor which is one of the long-established SECTORAL Brisa Members Educational Support Association which came cycle team for the development of cycling sport in Turkey since 1978 PRACTICES to life 20 years ago with the contributions of our employees. helps us to gain achievement in both domestic and overseas > CONTRIBUTION TO Our employees participate voluntarily in the activities of the tournament. In addition to generalize cycle which is environmental EDUCATION AND Association which provides support to youth who lack the SPORTS friendly vehicle, Brisa conduced to win championship in international sufficient financial resources to continue their education. We competition in many countries such as; Japan, Egypt, Serbia, Iran, DEVELOPMENT REPORT have contributed to over 300 students to this day and we continued providing Azerbaijan, Cameroon, Romania, Macedonia, Bulgaria. Thanks to Brisa scholarships for 80 students in the 2013-2014 school year, through Brisa and my club for their help in my sportman personality devlopement and Members Educational Support Association. contribution to my awards. 72 BRİSA 2014 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT SOCIETY RELATIONS CONTRIBUTION TO TRAFFIC SAFETY CONRIBUTION TO SECTORAL PRACTICES > CONTRIBUTION TO EDUCATION AND SPORTS DEVELOPMENT REPORT 73 BRİSA 2014 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT SOCIETY RELATIONS CONTRIBUTION TO TRAFFIC SAFETY CONRIBUTION TO SECTORAL PRACTICES > CONTRIBUTION TO EDUCATION AND SPORTS DEVELOPMENT REPORT 74 DEVELOPMENT REPORT WHAT DID WE 2014 OUR 2015 AIM FOR STATUS PERFORMANCE TARGETS IN THE YEAR 2014? DISCLOSURE We aimed to continue our “Yola We have provided proper We aim to continue our “Yola Sağlam Çık” project, nutrition and healthy living Sağlam Çık” project, counselling to 2.281 commercial vehicle drivers at To continue our support for 37 points in 28 cities. public institutions and civil We shared our industry-specific initiatives, To continue our support for knowledge and experience on public institutions and civil platforms formed by various To open Brisa Museum to the initiatives, public institutions and civil public, society organizations. We continued supporting civil To maintain our support for initiatives. education through Brisa Members Educational Support To open Brisa Museum, We have reviewed all processes Association, related to Brisa Museum. For Turkey’s first tyre museum, to this reason, we have postponed the public, the public opening of our To continue our contribution to museum to the first quarter of sports with Brisaspor, BRİSA 2014 2015. SUSTAINABILITY To give priority to traffic safety, To maintain our support for We continued supporting 80 REPORT students through Brisa education through Brisa To establish more systematic Members Educational Support Members Educational Support relations with the society by SOCIETY Association, Association. developing stakeholder RELATIONS communication and feedback To continue our contribution to Our athletes won a total of 138 methods. CONTRIBUTION TO medals. sports with Brisaspor, TRAFFIC SAFETY CONRIBUTION TO To give priority to traffic safety We maintained our contribution SECTORAL to traffic safety by enriching the and to enrich our studies, contents of projects such as PRACTICES Güvenli yolculuk için lastik CONTRIBUTION TO başına, Yola sağlam çık. EDUCATION AND To establish more systematic We conducted several focus SPORTS relations with the society by > DEVELOPMENT studies with small groups. We developing stakeholder will continue our works in the REPORT communication and feedback year 2015. methods. Completed In Progress Incomplete 75 CORPORATE MEMBERSHIPS 1. Business World and Sustainable Development Foundation 20. Rubber Liners’ Association G4-16, G4-40 2. Tyre Industrialists Association (LASDER) 21. Kocaeli Volunteer Firefighters’ Association 3. Economic Research Foundation 22. Kocaeli Chamber of Medicine 4. Corporate Volunteer Association 23. Chamber of Metallurgical Engineers 5. Foreign Economic Relations Board (DEIK) 24. Chamber of Mechanical Engineers 6. Association of Advertisers 25. KALDER 7. Istanbul Chamber of Industry 26. EFQM 8. Yased International Investors Association 27. Traffic Safety Platform 9. AIESEC Kocaeli 28. Corporate Governance Association of Turkey (TKYD) 10. Uludağ Exporters’ Association 39. Risk and Insurance Management Society Inc.(RIMS) 11. Turkish Industrialists’ and Businessmen’s Association (TUSIAD) 30. Tyre Industrialists and Importers Association (LASİD) 12. Turkey Researchers’ Association 31. Rubber Association 13. Corporate Risk Management Institute The number of 14. Turkey Internal Auditing Institute our corporate 15. Turkish Association of Agricultural Machinery memberships & Equipment Manufacturers 16. PERYÖN Turkey Personnel Management Association 17. European Tyre and Rubber Manufacturers Association (ETRMA) / European Tyre Industry Coordination Activity (ETICA) 18. Tyre Subcommittee (LAK) 19. The European Tyre and Rim Technical Organization (ETRTO) 76 ECONOMIC AND ADMINISTRATIVE PERFORMANCE INDICATORS 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Income (TL) 993.530.845 1.368.845.521 1.451.919.360 1.522.032.545 1.723.135.014 Operating Costs (TL) 717.941.727 1.070.391.964 1.027.613.373 1.027.744.179 1.137.124.014 Employee Wages and Other Provided Benefits (TL) 147.006.012 165.496.251 188.512.109 201.899.957 236.497.535 Payments to Pecuniary Resource Providers (TL) 47.063.952 79.808.998 122.703.715 131.564.956 179.103.952 Payments to the State (TL) 17.183.206 20.478.732 23.470.772 24.311.200 24.449.790 G4-9, G4-17, G4-22, Social Investments (TL) 20.820 478.090 330.441 1.269.906 453.874 G4-40, G4-EC1, G4-EN3, Protected Economic Value (TL) 64.315.128 32.191.486 89.288.950 155.887.307 163.302.630 G4-EN10, G4-EN15, G4-EN16, G4-EN17, ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 G4-EN21, G4-EN22, G4-DMA Raw Material Group Supply Values (%) Energy Consumption (GJ/ton) (Index, Base:2008=100) Total 94 89 95** 91** 87** Direct 112 115 159** 125** 117** Indirect 92 86 89** 88** 85** Energy Savings Realized with Efficiency Projects (GJ/ton) (Cumulative Index, Base:2008=100) 593 830 968 1086 1222 Total Well Water Consumption (m3) 677.934 567.362 530.738* 443.755* 438,486* Municipal Water(m3) 13.126 19.132* 17.132* Recycled and Reused Water (m3, %) Total Water Discharge by Destination (m3) Toplam Su Desarjı (m³) TOPLAM N/A N/A 268.854 319.662 309.724 Carbon dioxide Emission (Scope 1&Scope 2) (ton CO2-e/Production ton) (Index, Base: 2008=100) Total (Scope 1& Scope 2) 95 93 96** 92** 89** Direct (Scope 1) 111 177 185** 131** 117** Indirect (Scope 2) 94 88 91** 90** 87** Other Related Indirect Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Scope 3) (ton CO2 -e/Production ton) (Index, Base: 2011=100) Total (Scope 3) N/A 100 103 99 72 Logistic Activities N/A 100 100 97 68 Employee Transportation N/A 100 135 124 109 Nox, Sox and Other Significant Air Emissions by Type and Weight (Ton CO2-e/Production Ton) (Index, Base: 2008=100) Total 97 90 112 94 87 CH4 (ton CO2-e/production ton) 97 84 103 82 69 N2O (ton CO2-e/production ton) 97 94 118 101 98 “The figures highlighted in blue indicate modified data with regards to Brisa 2013 Sustainability Report” * See: Independent Limited Assurance Report ** While related ratios are indexed with regards to 2008, real values belonging to years 2012, 2013 and 2014 are incorporated in limited assurance studies. Index information according to 2008 is excluded from limited assurance scope. 77 ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Total Waste Amount by Type (Ton) Total 7.031 6.841 6.934* 7.035* 7.278* Hazardous Wastes (Ton) 958 681 640* 761* 661* Nonhazardous Wastes (Ton) 6.073 6.160 6.293* 6.274* 6.618 * Total Waste Amount by Process Type (Ton) G4-9, G4-10, G4-11, Total 7.031 6.841 6.934* 7.035* 7.278* G4-EN23, G4-EC6 Reuse 552 202 183 161 171 Recycle 2.687 3.137 3240 3442 3806 Recover 2.926 2.759 2676 2626 2932 Incineration 266 265 234 298 15 Storage 599 479 602 509 354 Environmental Protection and Investment Expenditures (US dollars) 349.860 880.195 1.098.097 1.198.410 847.566 SOCIAL PERFORMANCE INDICATOR 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Total Number of Employees 1.722 1.785 1.745 1.818 2.431 Employee Breakdown by Gender and Status (Numeral, %) Blue Collar Female 0 (0) 0 (0) 0 (0) 0 (0)* 0 (0)* Blue Collar Male 1.291 (100) 1.337 (100) 1.305 (100) 1361(100)* 1893 (77,9)* White Collar Female 63 (14,9) 62 (14,1) 67 (15,5) 79 (18)* 108 (4,4)* White Collar Male 360 (85,1) 378 (85,9) 366 (84,4) 372 (82)* 430 (17,7)* Employee Breakdown by Contract Type Permanent Female 63 62 67 79* 108* Temporary Female 2 0 0 1* 0* Permanent Male 1.651 1.715 1.671 1.733* 2.323* Temporary Male 6 7 1 1* 0* Employee Breakdown by Age Groups <30 (%) White Collar 28,7 27,1 23,9 18,6* 20,3* Blue Collar 40,8 34,8 27,6 27,3* 30,3* <30-50> (%) White Collar 65,2 65,2 68,8 76,1* 72,7* Blue Collar 58,6 64,7 71,9 72,5* 69,4* 50> (%) White Collar 6,1 7,6 7,4 5,3* 7* Blue Collar 0,5 0,5 0,5 0,1* 0,3* Employees Covered by Collective Bargaining Agreement (%) 75 75 75 75 78 78 SOCIAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Employee Trainings (person/hour) Blue Collar (person/hour) 14,69 18,51 24,85* 17,7* 31,51* White Collar (person/hour) 58,89 58,08 53,11* 71,6* 70,69* Female 75,88* Male 38,85* G4-38, G4-EC6, Incidence Rate (IR) 1,37 0,74 0,69* 0,71* 0,86* G4-LA9, G4-LA12 Severity Rate (SR) 26,91 15,13 14,79* 13,42* 12,27* Absentee Rate (%) 4,66 5,36 5,68 5,09 5,34 Senior Management by Gender (%) Board of Directors Female (%) 9,1 9,1 11,1 9,1* 9,1* Board of Directors Male (%) 90,9 90,9 89,9 90,9* 90,9* Executive Committee Female (%) 0 0 0 0* 0* Executive Committee Male (%) 100 100 100 100* 100* Senior Management by Age Groups <30 (%) Board of Directors 0 0 0 0* 0* Executive Committee 0 0 0 0* 0* <30-50> (%) Board of Directors 36,4 44,4 44,4 36,4* 36,4* Executive Committee 33,3 66,7 66,7 66,7* 66,7* 50> (%) Board of Directors 63,6 55,6 55,6 63,6* 63,6* Executive Committee 66,7 33,3 33,3 33,3* 33,3* Senior Management by Nationality Turkish 64,3* 64,3* Foreign 35,7* 35,7* Board of Directors (Turkish) 63,6* 63,6* Board of Directors (Foreign) 36,4* 36,4* Executive Committee (Turkish) 50* 50* Executive Committee (Foreign) 50* 50* Hired Employees by Gender (Numeral, %) Blue Collar Female 0(0) 0(0) 0(0) 0(0)* 0 (0)* Blue Collar Male 234 (100) 78 (100) 42 (100) 96(100)* 586 (100)* White Collar Female 13 (16,7) 11 (12,9) 10 (18,2) 18(30)* 35 (28,9)* White Collar Male 65 (83,3) 74 (87,1) 45 (81,8) 42(70)* 86 (71,1)* 79 SOCIAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Leaving Employees by Gender (Numeral, %) Blue Collar Female 0 (0) 0 (0) 0 (0) 0 (0)* 0 (0)* Blue Collar Male 30 (100) 32 (100) 39 (100) 38(100)* 50 (100)* White Collar Female 3 (6,1) 11 (17,7) 6 (9,8) 6(13)* 7 (14,9)* White Collar Male 46 (93,9) 53 (82,3) 55 (90,2) 40(87)* 40 (85,1)* G4-EC5, G4-LA1 Leaving Employees by Age Groups (Numeral, %) Blue Collar <30 231 (98,7) 77 (98,7) 39 (92,9) 91(94,8)* 283 (48,3)* Blue Collar <30-50> 3 (1,3) 1 (1,3) 3 (7,1) 5(5,2)* 299(51,0)* Blue Collar 50> 0 (0) 0 (0) 0 (0) 0 (0)* 4(10,7)* White Collar <30 47 (60,3) 58 (68,2) 29 (52,7) 37(61,7)* 59(49,0)* White Collar <30-50> 31 (39,7) 27 (31,8) 25 (45,5) 22(36,7)* 59(49,0)* White Collar 50> 0 (0) 0 (0) 1 (1,8) 1(1,7)* 3 (2,0)* Leaving Employees by Age Groups (Numeral, %) Blue Collar <30 2 (6,7) 2 (6,3) 1 (2,6) 0(0)* 3 (6)* Blue Collar <30-50> 25 (83,3) 29 (90,6) 33 (84,6) 35(92,1)* 45 (90)* Blue Collar 50> 3 (10) 1 (3,1) 5 (12,8) 3(7,9)* 2 (4)* White Collar <30 23 (46,9) 19 (29,7) 14 (23) 18(39,1)* 12(25,5)* White Collar <30-50> 22 (44,9) 34 (53,1) 39 (63,9) 25(54,3)* 34(72,3)* White Collar 50> 4 (8,2) 11 (17,2) 8 (13,1) 3(6,5)* 1(2,1)* Entry Level Wage by Minimum Wage Blue Collar 4,05 3,91 3,8 3,79 3,72 White Collar 4,21 3,94 3,51 3,52 3,26 80 Brisa Bridgestone Sabancı Tyre Man. and Tra. Inc. Energy “Energy consumption” means the energy used during the reporting year (1 Consumption, Carbon Dioxide Emission, Water Consumption, January to 31 December), being the energy purchased during the period. Energy consumption data includes energy used in all manufacturing Training Hours, Employee Breakdown, Hired Employees, processes and secondary facilities, including electrical systems, heating, Leaving Employees, Top Management, Occupational Health lighting, on-site transportation and air circulation (HVAC system). The and Safety and Waste Amount per Type Indicators Reporting results of the transportation services provided by third parties including Guidance the supplying process are excluded. This Reporting Guidance (“Guidance”) supports the preparation and reporting of energy consumption, carbon dioxide emission, water “Direct energy Consumption”, refers to primary energy sources such as consumption, training hours, occupational health and safety and waste natural gas, LPG, fuel, etc. which are consumed for own operations. amount per type of Brisa Bridgestone Sabancı Tyre Man. and Tra. Inc. (the “Company”). It is the responsibility of the Company management to ensure “Indirect Energy Consumption”, refers to the electricity and steam that is that appropriate procedures are in place to prepare the indicators produced outside the company and consumed by company. mentioned above in line with, in all material respects, the Guidance. “Volume of production (tone)”, refers to annual production volume Scope of Reporting warehoused in terms of tone. The information is provided by accounting unit. The scope of our report includes the results of operations in Turkey and excludes the performance related to non-tyre production. Non-tyre Energy consumption data are obtained from supplier invoices. The products constitute 1% of the total revenue. The data until FY 2014 (until the conversion factors presented in the Table.1 are used in the calculation of fiscal year ended 31 December 2014) is reported (including the information energy consumption ratios. as of 31 December 2014). Energy Consumption Rate (The energy consumption per production tone): General Reporting Principles Energy Consumption (GJ) / Volume of Production (tone) In preparing this guidance document, the following principles have been In the scope of assurance, direct and indirect energy consumption per considered: production tonnage are provided. The data is indexed to due confidentiality. • Preparation of Information; relevant and reliable preparation of information is main principle. Carbon Dioxide Emission • Reporting of Information; the main principles have been defined as to be comparability / consistency of information with other data including prior “Carbon dioxide emissions”, means the carbon emitted as a result of the year and understandability / transparency providing clarity to users. energy consumption during the reporting year (1 January to 31 December) and refers to the impact of our all tyre production processes, uses of Key Definitions and Data Preparation sources, chemicals and logistic operations located in İzmit. The term of “facility” includes the production, administration, social service, Energy Consumption warehousing and technology buildings. “Energy” consists of electricity, steam, natural gas, fuel oil, and LPG. For the purpose of this report, energy does not include alternative forms of Where the Company has on-site generated energy, the related energy fuel, such as bio-waste, bio-mass, bio-diesel, or renewable sources of consumption is defined as direct energy consumption. energy (such as wind or solar energy) which collectively represent an insignificant share of total energy consumption and greenhouse gas emissions. 81 “Direct Greenhouse Gas Emission”, refers the emission generated by the Table 2. Energy and Greenhouse Gas Emissions Conversion Factors source that is owned or kept down by company. (Scope-1) Conversion Factors (kg/TJ) Fuel / Material Scope Ref CO2 CH4 N20 “Indirect Greenhouse Gas Emission”, refers the emission generated by company operations, but the source of emission is owned or kept down by Natural Gas Direct 56.100,00 1,00 0,10 a different organization. Diesel Oil Direct 74.100,00 3,00 0,60 a Diesel Oil Other Indirect 74.100,00 3,90 3,90 b • Energy indirect”, refers the emission generated by electric and steam LPG Direct 63.100,00 1,00 0,10 a that is bought and consumed in operational line of company. (Scope-2) Oil Direct 69.300,00 25,00 8,00 b • “Other indirect”, refers the emission generate by logistic services that is Electricity Energy Indirect 0,472 c outsourced by company. (Scope-3) Steam Energy Indirect 0,167 d a 2006 IPCC Guidelines for National Greenhouse Gas Inventories -Volume Greenhouse gas emissions are calculated depending on the 2-Chapter 2 Stationary Combustion Table 2.3 Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC -2006) reference b 2006 IPCC Guidelines for National Greenhouse Gas Inventories -Volume methods and measurements. 2-Chapter 3 Mobile Combustion Table 3.2.2 c IEA Statistics 2013 Edition Turkey ( Tier 2 Country Specific Emission Factor) CO2 In calculation of energy consumption, lower heating values in Annex 2 in emissions per kWh from electricity generation * page: 110 Regulation of Increasing Efficiency in Energy Resources and Use (Enerji d Supplier's declaration Kaynaklarının Ve Enerjinin Kullanımında Verimliliğin Artırılmasına Dair Yönetmelik (RG: 27.10.2011/ 28097 )EK 2 ) are used. Values are presented Carbon Dioxiede Emission Rate (CO2 emission ton per production tonnage): in Table 1. Carbon Dioxide Emission (ton CO2) / Production Volume (ton): In the scope of assurance, scope 1 and 2 emission per production tonnage Carbon dioxide emission is calculated depending on the conversion factors is provided. The data is indexed to due confidentiality. of energy resources. Conversion factor is used to determine the amount of carbon dioxide emission for one unit of energy. Different types of energy Water Consumption sources have different conversion factors reflecting their carbon dioxide ‘Water’ consists of all kinds of water used at the facility including well and intensity. In future periods, conversion factors may be updated to reflect municipality water. Well water consumption values are presented during changes to and/or improvements in published data. The conversion factors the reporting year (the period between 1 January and 31 December). Well are presented in Table 2. water consumption data includes water used for production, cooling Birim (contact and non-contact), cleaning, back-washing filters, irrigation, kCal/m3 washing trucks, toilets and sinks and fire control. Municipality water is TABLE 1. LOWER HEATING VALUES OF ENERGY SOURCES kCal/ton used in catering service. Fuel / Material Lower Heating Value kCal/m3 Natural Gas 8.250 kCal/ton Water consumption data is obtained from supplier invoices. Diesel Oil 10.200.000 kCal/kWh LPG 27.000 kCal/ton In the scope of assurance, well water consumption m3 is provided. Oil 10.400.000 Electricity 860 Steam 574.300 *4,186 and 1000 values are used for Kj/Kcal and Mj/Kj conversiton respectively. 82 Training Hours Contract status is classified as blue and white collar. Employee breakdown number by gender and status is provided with “Number of Employee by “Monthly Training Hours” represents monthly total education hours given Gender and Status”. by the company or by an education company to white and blue collar employees. (Personal development, professional growth, occupational Employee Breakdown by Gender and Status (number, %): Number of safety, environment, on the job training, outdoor, orientation, etc.) It Employee by Gender and Status / Total Employee Number represents total monthly hours of training provided during the reporting year (the period between 1 January and 31 December). It is calculated in Employee number by status and age is provided with “Number of Employee each month. Breakdown by Age Groups”. Age group is classified into three groups which are less than 30 years, between 30 and 50 years and older than 50 years. “Monthly Employee Number” represents total monthly number of white and blue collar employees in the Company. Personal information of each Employee Breakdown by Age Groups: Number of Employees by Age Groups employee who starts to work in the Company is registered to the SAP / Total Employee Number system that is created for human resources applications, by Labor Relations Unit. The program generates data such as employee breakdown All information related with contract is entered to SAP system by Labor data by status (blue/white collar). The monthly number of employees is Relations Unit. Data is monitored in SAP system. Employee by contract type determined based on the information as of month-end. breakdown is received from SAP system. Name of the training, details of participant and total hours of the training “Total Employee Number” means total number of white and blue collar offered to white and blue collar employees are registered to participatory employees. New entrants’ information is entered to SAP system by Labor forms. The information on these forms is registered to the SAP system by Relations Unit. Employee status breakdown (white collar/blue collar) is the related Human Resources Department. One-day training is considered received from software. Employee year-end value is calculated. to be 8 hours. Training Hours per Person (Hour/Man): Sum of Monthly Training Hours per Hired Employees Employee Gender, age group and status breakdown of employees are provided. Monthly Training Hours per Person (Hour/Man): Monthly Training Hours/ “Number of Hired Employees by Gender” counts the number of white and Monthly Employee Number blue collar employees by gender hired between January 1st and December 31st. In the scope of assurance, total training hours per person, blue and white collar, man and woman breakdowns are provided. “Total number of employees hired” counts the total number of employees hired between January 1st and December 31st. Employee Breakdown Hired Employees by Gender(number, %): Number of Hired Employees by Employee breakdown represents the demographics of employees by Gender/ Total number of employees hired gender, status, contract type and age group. Contract type is classified as permanent and temporary. Employee ratio to total employee number by gender and contract type is provided with “Employee Breakdown by Contract Type”. 83 “Number of Hired Employees by Age Groups” counts number of white and Female Board of Directors: Number of Female Board of Directors Member blue collar employees by age hired between January 1st and December / Total Board of Directors Member 31st. Age group is classified into three groups which are less than 30 years, between 30 and 50 years and older than 50 years. Male Board of Directors: Number of Male Board of Directors Member / Total Board of Directors Member Hired Employees by Age Groups(number, %): Number of Hired Employees by Age Groups / Total number of employees hired Female Executive Committee: Number of Female Executive Committee Member / Total Executive Committee Member Leaving Employees Male Executive Committee: Number of Male Executive Committee Member / Total Executive Committee Member Gender, age group and status breakdown of employees are provided. “Upper Management by Age Groups” is the ration of female and male “Number of Leaving Employees by Gender” counts the number of white and members in Board of Directors and Executive Committee. Age groups are blue collar employees by gender leaved between January 1st and classified into three groups which are less than 30 years, between 30 and December 31st. 50 years and older than 50 years. Leaving Employees by Gender(number, %): Number of Leaving Employees by Gender/ Total number of employees leaved Occupational Health and Safety Indicators “Number of leaving Employees by Age Groups” counts number of white and “Monthly Working Hour”, represents total number of hours worked within blue collar employees by age leaved between January 1st and December the boundaries of workplace by white and blue collar employees during the 31st. Age group is classiffied into three groups which are less than 30 corresponding month. years, between 30 and 50 years and older than 50 years. Working hours of blue collar employees are calculated via Personnel Leaving Employees by Age Groups(number, %): Number of Leaving Attendance Control System (PDKS) software which keeps data of time of Employees by Age Groups / Total number of employees leaved entrance and departure of employees. “Total number of employees leaved” counts the total number of employees Working hours of white collar employees are calculated via following hired between January 1st and December 31st. formula; White collar employees working hours (monthly) = Number of white collar employees * Total number of working days (monthly) * 7,5 hours Upper Management “Lost Day Cases”, represent total number of working days in which the Gender, age group, Board of Directors and Executive Committee Company’s employees are affected physically and incapable of working due breakdowns are provided. to accidents or death. Gender by upper management means the ratio of male and female Number of “Lost Days” represents the total number of working days lost members of Board of Directors and Executive Commiteee to total due to accidents. It is calculated by determining the period of incapable of members. working days of an employee comparing with the incapacity report of the employee given by health institution. 84 Incident Rate-IR: Lost Day Cases*200.000/Monthly Working Hours Severity Rate-SR: Lost Days*200.000 /Monthly Working Hours In the scope of assurance, incident and severity rates are provided. Waste Amount Per Type “Hazardous waste (tone)”, refers the amount of waste which is classified and recovered/disposed outside the company depending on the General Principle of Waste Management (Atık Yönetimi Genel Esaslarına İlişkin Yönetmelik-05.07.2008 / 26927). Hazardous waste amount is the summation of the amount reported in National Waste Transportation Form (Ulusal Atık Taşıma Formları) which is composed by licenced companies for waste transportation. “Non-hazardous waste”, is the amount of waste outside the hazardous waste and recycled/recovered/disposed outside the company except waste water. Non-hazardous waste amount is the summation of tonnage in dispatch note which is composed while sending non-hazardous waste to licensed companies. In the scope of assurance, hazardous and non-hazardous waste tonnages are provided. Restatements The measuring and reporting of assured environmental data inevitably involves a degree of estimation. In exceptional circumstances, restatements for prior year reported data may be required. Restatements are considered where the data differs by more than 5% at the Company level. 85 GRI G4 Content IndexIn accordance option Comprehensive’’ OMISSIONS GENERAL STANDART DISCLOSURES GENERAL STANDART DISCLOSURES GENERAL PAGE OMISSIONS EXTERNAL GENERAL PAGE OMISSIONS EXTERNAL G4-32, G4-54, G4-55, STANDARD ASSURANCE STANDARD ASSURANCE DISCLOSURES DISCLOSURES G4-40 Strategy and Analysis Report Profile G4-1 Message From the CEO pp.6-7 No G4-28 About the Report p.3 No G4-2 Risk Management p.18 No G4-29 About the Report p.3 No Organizational Profile No G4-30 About the Report p.3 No G4-3 About Brisa p.10 No G4-31 About the Report p.3 No G4-4 About Brisa p.11 No G4-32 GRI G4 Content Index pp.85-89, p.91 No G4-5 Contact (Back Cover) No G4-33 Independent Limited Assurance Report p.91 No G4-6 About Brisa p.10 No Governance G4-7 2014 Annual Report p.12 No G4-34 Corporate Governance Structure p.17 No G4-8 About Brisa p.10 No G4-35 Corporate Governance Structure p.17 No G4-9 Economic and Administrative Performance G4-36 Corporate Governance Structure p.17 No Indicators p. 76; Social Performance Yes, p.91 G4-37 Stakeholders p.23 Indicators p.77 G4-38 Corporate Governance Structure p.17; Social No G4-10 Social Performance Indicators p.77 No Performance Indicators p.78 No G4-11 Social Performance Indicators p.77 No G4-39 Corporate Governance Structure p.17 No G4-12 Responsible Supply Chain Practices p.34 No G4-40 2014 Annual Report p.75 No G4-13 http://kap.gov.tr/en/search/notice-inquiry-results.a G4-41 Business Ethics Approach p.65; 2014 Annual spx?tarihtipi=-1&sirkettip=0&sirketgrubu=0&Sirket Report p.65 No AraciKurumList=891&bildirimtipi No G4-42 Corporate Governance Structure p.17 G4-14 Risk Management p.18 No G4-43 Risk Management p.18; Employees’ No G4-15 Risk Management p.18; Customer Health and Leadership and Development Journey p.63 No Safety Throughout the Product Lifecycle p.28; G4-44 Corporate Governance Structure p.17; 2014 Energy and Emissions Management p.47; No Annual Report pp.78-81 No Efficient Use of Natural G4-45 Risk Management p.18 No Resources and Less Waste p.49 G4-46 Risk Management p.18; 2014 Annual Report No G4-16 Corporate Memberships p.75 No pp.81-83 Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries G4-47 Risk Management p.18; 2014 Annual Report No G4-17 About Brisa p.10; Economic and No pp.81-83 Administrative Performance Indicators p. 76 G4-48 Sustainability Managemet p.21 No G4-18 About Brisa p.3; Sustainability Management No G4-49 Sustainability Managemet pp.21-22 No p.21 Priority Issues p.24 G4-50 Sustainability Managemet pp.21-22;Priority No G4-19 Priority Issues p.24 No Issues p.24 G4-20 Sustainability Priorities According to Stakeholder No G4-51 2014 Annual Report p.84 No Groups p.25; Priority Issues p.24 G4-52 2014 Annual Report p.84 No G4-21 Sustainability Priorities According to Stakeholder No G4-53 2014 Annual Report p.84 No Groups p.25; Priority Issues p.24 G4-54 Confidentiality Constraints A Leve linformation G4-22 Environmental Performance Indicators p.76 No according to company No confidentiality rule. G4-23 About the Report p.3 No G4-55 Confidentiality Constraints A Leve linformation Stakeholder Engagement according to company No confidentiality rule. G4-24 Stakeholders p.23 No Ethics and Integrity G4-25 Stakeholders p.23 No G4-56 Business Ethics Approach p.65 No G4-26 Stakeholders p.23 No G4-57 Business Ethics Approach p.65; No G4-27 Stakeholders p.23 No Internal Auditing and Internal Control p.20 Business Ethics Approach p.65; Internal No G4-58 Auditing and Internal Control p.20 86 GRI G4 Content IndexIn accordance option Comprehensive’’ SPECIFIC STANDART DISCLOSURES SPECIFIC STANDART DISCLOSURES G4-EC5, G4-EN1, G4-EN2, G4-EN4, DMA and PAGE OMISSIONS EXTERNAL DMA and PAGE OMISSIONS EXTERNAL INDICATORS ASSURANCE INDICATORS ASSURANCE G4-EN9, G4-32 CATEGORY: ECONOMİC Material Aspect: Energy Material Aspect: Economic Performance G4-DMA Energy and Emissions Management p.47 No G4-DMA Risk Management p.18; Economic and No G4-EN3 Only indexed Administrative Performance Indicators figures employed due to p.76; 2014 Annual Report pp.127-128 Yes, p.91 confidentiality G4-EC1 Economic and Administrative Performance No constraints. Indicators p.76 Risk Management p.18 No G4-EN4 Only indexed G4-EC2 figures G4-EC3 Business Relations and Union Rights p.65; No No employed due to 2014 Annual Report pp.127-128 confidentiality G4-EC4 2014 Annual Report pp.110,135 No constraints. Material Aspect: Market Presence G4-EN5 Energy and Emissions Management p.48 No G4-EN6 Energy and Emissions Management p.48 No G4-DMA Employee Rights p.65, GRI G4 Content No G4-EN7 Environment Friendly Products and Servicesp.52-53 No Index p.87 G4-EC5 Social Performance Indicators p.79; GRI G4 No Material Aspect: Water Content Index p.86 (Minimum wage G4-DMA Efficient Use of Natural Resources and No does not differ Less Waste pp.49-50 with regards to gender) G4-EN8 Efficient Use of Natural Resources and Yes, p.91 G4-EC6 Social Performance Indicators p.77 No Less Waste p.50 Material Aspect: Indirect Economic Impacts G4-EN9 GRI G4 Content Index p.86 No G4-DMA Society Relations pp.68-69 No (Our facilities do not reside in RAMSAR G4-EC7 Society Relations pp.68-71 No areas) G4-EC8 Society Relations pp.68-71 No G4-EN10 Efficient Use of Natural Resources and No Less Waste p.50; Environmental Material Aspect: Procurement Practices Performance Indicators p.76 G4-DMA Responsible Supply Chain Practices p.30 No Material Aspect: Biodiversity G4-EC9 Responsible Supply Chain Practices p.35 No G4-DMA Respect for Biodiversity p.51 No CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL G4-EN11 Respect for Biodiversity p.51 No Material Aspect: Materials G4-EN12 Respect for Biodiversity p.51 No G4-DMA Not Applicable. Not No G4-EN13 Respect for Biodiversity p.51 No Material No G4-EN14 Respect for Biodiversity p.51 G4-EN1 Confidentiality No Constraints. It creates Material Aspect: Emissions competition disadvantage. G4-DMA Energy and Emissions Management p.47 No G4-EN15 Environmental Performance Indicators p.76 Yes, p.91 (Not Applicable. No G4-EN2 Recycled raw material G4-EN16 Environmental Performance Indicators p.76 Yes, p.91 is not used in production) G4-EN17 Environmental Performance Indicators p.76 No G4-EN18 Energy and Emissions Management p.48 No G4-EN19 Energy and Emissions Management p.48 No 87 GRI G4 Content IndexIn accordance option Comprehensive’’ SPECIFIC STANDART DISCLOSURES SPECIFIC STANDART DISCLOSURES G4-EN24, G4-EN25, G4-EN29, G4-EN34, DMA and PAGE OMISSIONS EXTERNAL DMA and PAGE OMISSIONS EXTERNAL INDICATORS ASSURANCE INDICATORS ASSURANCE G4-LA3, G4-LA4, G4-LA6, G4-32, Material Aspect: Emissions Material Aspect: Overall G4-DMA G4-EN20 (Not applicableG4-DMA Environmental Approach pp.46-47 No Do not included in No G4-EN31 Environmental Approach p.47 No the report due to its effect, which is Material Aspect: Supplier Environmental Assessment lower than G4-DMA Responsible Supply Chain Practices No 5% of total pp.34-35 GHG G4-EN32 Responsible Supply Chain Practices p.35 No emissions.) G4-EN33 Environmentalist Logistics Operations p.36 No G4-EN21 Environmental Performance Indicators p.76 No Material Aspect: Environmental Grievance Mechanisms Material Aspect: Effluents and Waste G4-DMA Brisa Corporate Compliance Policy p.19 No G4-DMA Efficient Use of Natural Resources No G4-EN34 GRI G4 Content Index p.87 (No sanctions No and Less Waste pp.49-50 were received for non-compliance with G4-EN22 Efficient Use of Natural Resources No environmental regulations during the and Less Waste p.50; Environmental reporting period) Performance Indicators p.76 G4-EN23 Environmental Performance Indicators p.77 Yes, p.91 CATEGORY: SOCIAL G4-EN24 GRI G4 Content Index p.87 (No spills have Material Aspect: Employment No No taken place during the reporting period) G4-DMA Employee Rights p.65 G4-LA1 Social Performance Indicators p.79 No G4-EN25 (Not ApplicableNo No such process is G4-LA2 Employee Rights p.65 No avaliable) G4-LA3 GRI G4 Content Index p.87 (In the reporting Yes, p.91 G4-EN26 Efficient Use of Natural Resources No period, 4 male and 168 female employees and Less Waste p.50 used their parental leave and return to work rate is 100% for both male and Material Aspect: Products and Services female employees. G4-DMA Environment Friendly Products and Services p.52 No G4-EN27 Environment Friendly Products and Services No Material Aspect: Labor/Management Relations pp.52-53; Customer Health and Safety G4-DMA Employee Rights p.65 No Throughout the Product Lifecycle pp.28-29 G4-LA4 GRI G4 Content Index p.87 (In cases of No G4-EN28 Efficient Use of Natural Resources and No contract end, we apply the judgements of Less Waste p.50 labour legislation and collective labour Material Aspect: Compliance agreement. ) G4-DMA Brisa Corporate Compliance Policy p.19 No G4-EN29 GRI G4 Content Index p.87 (No sanctions Material Aspect: Occupational Health and Safety No were received for non-compliance with G4-DMA Occupational Health and Safety Approach pp.59-60 No environmental regulations during the G4-LA5 Occupational Health and Safety Approach p.59 No G4-LA6 Occupational Health and Safety Approach p.59; Not applicablereporting period) As there are no Material Aspect: Transport GRI G4 Content Index p.87 blue-collar Yes, p.91 women employee, G4-DMA Responsible Supply Chain Practices p.34 No gender breakdown is not presented. G4-EN30 Environmentalist Logistics Operations p.36 No G4-LA7 Occupational Health and Safety Approach pp.59-60 No G4-LA8 Business Relations and Union Rights p.65 No 88 GRI G4 Content IndexIn accordance option Comprehensive’’ SPECIFIC STANDART DISCLOSURES SPECIFIC STANDART DISCLOSURES G4-LA13, G4-HR2, G4-HR3, G4-HR7, DMA and PAGE OMISSIONS EXTERNAL DMA and PAGE OMISSIONS EXTERNAL INDICATORS ASSURANCE INDICATORS ASSURANCE G4-HR8, G4-HR12, G4-32 Material Aspect: Training and Education Material Aspect: Child Labor G4-DMA Development Journey pp.61-64 No G4-DMA Employee Rights p.65 No G4-LA9 Social Performance Indicators p.78 Yes, p.91 G4-HR5 Business Ethics Approach p.65 No G4-LA10 Employees’ Leadership and Development No Material Aspect: Forced or Compulsary Labor Journey pp.63-64 No G4-DMA Employee Rights p.65 G4-LA11 Corporate Development Journey p.61 No No G4-HR6 Business Ethics Approach p.65 Material Aspect: Diversity and Equal Opportunity Material Aspect: Security Practices Not Applicable. Not Applicable. No G4-DMA Not Material No G4-DMA Not Material G4-LA12 Social Performance Indicators p.78 Yes, p.91 G4-HR7 GRI G4 Content Index p.88 No (Private security services are provided by Material Aspect: Equal Remuneration for Women and Men third party. All security G4-DMA Not Applicable. No Not Material personnel are trained G4-LA13 GRI G4 Content Index p.88 (There is no on human rights policy gender discrimination in remuneration of No and legal employees) obligations) Material Aspect: Supplier Assessment for Labor Practices Material Aspect: Indigenous Rights Not Applicable. G4-DMA Responsible Supply Chain Practices pp.34-36 G4-DMA Not Material No No G4-HR8 GRI G4 Content Index p.88 (No related incident No G4-LA14 Supplier Audits pp.35-36 No has taken place during reporting period) G4-LA15 Business Ethics Approach p.65; GRI G4 Content Index p.88 (There is no gender discrimination in remuneration of employees)(In the Material Aspect: Assessment reporting period, 4 female and 168 male employees have taken a No G4-DMA Not Applicable. No maternal/paternal leave and all of them (%100) have returned to Not Material their posts at the end of their leave. No G4-HR9 Internal Audit and Internal Control p.20 Material Aspect:Labor Practices Grievance Mechanisms Not Applicable. No Material Aspect:Supplier Human Rights Assessment G4-DMA Not Material No G4-DMA Responsible Supply Chain Practices No G4-LA16 Business Ethics Approach p.65 pp.34-36 Material Aspect: Investment G4-HR10 Responsible Supply Chain Practices p.35 No Not Applicable. G4-DMA Not Material No G4-HR11 Responsible Supply Chain Practices p.35 No G4-HR1 Responsible Supply Chain Practices No Material Aspect: Human Rights Grievance Mechanisms pp.34-35 G4-DMA Responsible Supply Chain Practices No G4-HR2 Business Ethics Approach p.65; GRI G4 No pp.34-36 Content Index p.88 (Our Business Ethics G4-HR12 GRI G4 Content Index p.88 (No related incident No Trainings involve human rights issues) has taken place during reporting period.) Material Aspect: Non-discrimination Material Aspect: Local Communities G4-DMA Our Business Ethics Approach p.65 No G4-DMA Society Relations pp.68-71; No G4-HR3 GRI G4 Content Index p.88 (No related Environmental Approach pp.45-46 incident has taken place during reporting No G4-SO1 Respect for Biodiversity p.51; No period) Environmental Approach pp.45-46 Material Aspect: Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining No G4-SO2 Society Relations pp.68-71 G4-DMA Employee Rights p.65 No G4-HR4 Business Relations and Union Rights p.65 No 89 GRI G4 Content IndexIn accordance option Comprehensive’’ SPECIFIC STANDART DISCLOSURES SPECIFIC STANDART DISCLOSURES G4-SO6, G4-SO7, G4-S08, G4-SO10, DMA and PAGE OMISSIONS EXTERNAL DMA and PAGE OMISSIONS EXTERNAL INDICATORS ASSURANCE INDICATORS ASSURANCE G4-SO11, G4-PR2, G4-PR4, G4-PR6, Material Aspect: Anti-corruption Material Aspect: Customer Health and Safety G4-PR7, G4-PR8, G4-DMA Sustainability Journey p.17; Internal Audit No G4-DMA Customer Health and Safety Throughout the No G4-PR9, G4-32 and Internal Control p.20 Product Lifecycle pp.28-29; Environment G4-SO3 Internal Audit and Internal Control p.20 No Friendly Products and Services pp.52-53 G4-SO4 Sustainability Journey p.17; Internal Audit No G4-PR1 Customer Health and Safety Throughout the No and Internal Control p.20 Product Lifecycle pp.28-29; Environment G4-SO5 Internal Audit and Internal Control p.20 No Friendly Products and Services pp.52-53 G4-PR2 GRI G4 Content Index s.89 (No related No Material Aspect: Public Policy incident has taken place during reporting period.) G4-DMA Not Applicable. No Not Material Material Aspect: Product and Service Labeling G4-SO6 GRI G4 Content Index p.89 (No financial or No G4-DMA Customer Health and Safety Throughout the No in-kind contribution is made for political Product Lifecycle pp.28-29; Environment parties, politicians and related Friendly Products and Services pp.52-53 institutions.) G4-PR3 Customer Health and Safety Throughout the No Material Aspect: Anti-competitive Behavior Product Lifecycle pp.28-29; Environment G4-DMA Not Applicable. No Friendly Products and Services pp.52-53 Not Material G4-SO7 GRI G4 Content Index p.89 (No incident G4-PR4 GRI G4 Content Index p.89 (No related incident No No has taken place during reporting period.) regarding non-compliance with Competition Law has taken place during G4-PR5 Customes p.31 No the reporting period.) Material Aspect: Marketing Communications G4-DMA Not Applicable. No Material Aspect: Compliance Not Material No G4-PR6 GRI G4 Content Index p.89 No G4-DMA Risk Management pp.18-19 No (No such products are avaliable in our product G4-SO8 GRI G4 Content Index p.89 (Rno significant portfolio.) fines were paid for non-compliance with G4-PR7 GRI G4 Content Index p.89 (No related incident No laws and regulations during the reporting has taken place during reporting period.) period.) Material Aspect: Customer Privacy Material Aspect: Supplier Assessment for Impacts on Society Not Applicable. G4-DMA Risk Management pp.18-19 No G4-DMA Not Material No G4-PR8 GRI G4 Content Index p.89 (No related incident G4-SO9 Responsible Supply Chain Practices No No has taken place during reporting period.) pp.34-36 G4-SO10 GRI G4 Content Index p.89 (Negative Material Aspect: Compliance No impacts are measured and controlled. The G4-DMA Internal Audit and Internal Control p.20 No systems are improved with preventive G4-PR9 GRI G4 Content Index p.89 (No related incident No approaches (technological innovations, has taken place during reporting period.) benchmarking studies, suggestion Non-GRI ASPECTS systems etc.) DMA Society Relations pp.68-71 No Material Aspect: Grievance Mechanisms for Impacts on Society Material Aspect: Innovation and Corporate Entrepreneurship G4-DMA Not Applicable. No Not Material DMA Innovation and Corporate Entrepreneurship No G4-SO11 GRI G4 Content Index p.89 (No related incident No pp.38-41 No has taken place during reporting period.) Material Aspect: Development Journey DMA Development journey pp.61-64 No 90 UN Global Compact Progress Statement Indicators Table Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and pp.34-36; 65 Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. pp.34-36; 65 Labour Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective p.65 recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; p.65 Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and p.65 Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. p.65 Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; pp.45-55 Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and pp.45-55 Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies pp.45-55 Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including pp.17, 20, 26 extortion and bribery. 91 G4-32, G4-33 Report Consultant: www.kiymetiharbiye.com Limited Assurance Study: Report Design: www.folkbca.com Legal Disclaimer Sustainability Report (Report) was prepared by Brisa Bridgestone Sabancı Lastik San. ve Tic. A.Ş. in line with the reporting principles of GRI (Global Reporting Initiative). All information and opinions expressed in this report, which are not of a complete nature, were provided by Brisa Bridgestone Sabancı Lastik San. ve Tic. A.Ş. The report is solely prepared for informative purposes and does not aim to constitute a basis fo r investment decisions. No information expressed in this report forms a proposal or part of a proposal regarding the sale of Brisa Bridgestone Sabancı Lastik San. ve Tic. A.Ş. shares, or an invitation to this kind of process. The publishing of this report does not mean that a legal relationship of this kind has been established. All featured information and related documents are believed to be accurate at the time of this report’s preparation and all information has been provided in good faith and relies on trustworthy sources. However, Brisa Bridgestone Sabancı Lastik San. ve Tic. A.Ş. does not make any kind of declaration, guarantee or promise in relation to this information. Accordingly, no company belonging to Brisa Bridgestone Sabancı Lastik San. ve Tic. A.Ş., nor their Board Committee members, advisors or employees are responsible for any loss or damage in curred directly or indirectly by a person as a result of any information or communication provided within this report, or any information based on or not included in this report. Head Office Alikahya Mevkii, 41220 İzmit Phone : (262) 316 40 00 Faks : (262) 316 40 40 General Management Office Sabancı Center Kule: 2, Kat: 8, 4.Levent, 34330 İstanbul Phone : (212) 385 84 50 Faks : (212) 385 84 55 Marketing and Sales Office Kısıklı Caddesi, Şehit Teğmen İsmail Moray Sokak No: 2/1 Altunizade, 34662 İstanbul Phone : (216) 544 35 00 Faks : (216) 544 35 35 Internet Address www.brisa.com.tr Coorparate Email Address brisa.info@brisa.com.tr G4-5
