SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE 2013 Committed to Sustainability CONTENTS 1 Letter from CEO 2 THE SUSTAINABILITY COMMITTEE 3 About THE REPORT 4 About DYSTAR 4 Our Worldwide Presence 5 Our Products and Solutions 6 OUR SERVICES 7 OUR MEMBERSHIP 8 Economic Performance 9 Sustainability aT DYSTAR 11 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT 13 OUR SUSTAINBILITY PERFORMANCE 13 ENSURE SUSTAINABLE OPERATIONS 21 PROVIDE RESPONSIBLE PRODUCTS AND SERVICES 25 PROMOTE ETHICAL PRACTICES 31 DATA AT A GLANCE 32 GRI Index 37 UN GLOBAL COMPACT INDEX LETTER FROM CEO our chemical auxiliary products. However and services to our customers, and we are for both our dye and chemical manufactures raising the standard of environmental and we managed to reduce emission intensity in social sustainability in our operations. This, 2013 compared to 2012 and the reductions in turn, has enhanced our global recognition over the last 3 years are significant. and credibility and helped us grow our business. In spite of the challenges, all our teams across countries are committed to achieve With this background, I have great pleasure our sustainability goals. We recognize and in presenting to you DyStar Group’s Annual Dear Stakeholders, appreciate the efforts of our employees in Corporate Sustainability Report for 2013. We making our business and sustainability efrecognize that apart from our own underDyStar has built its business upon techniforts successful. We ensure that they benefit standing and analysis, our sustainability goals cal expertise accumulated over more than personally from our drive towards greater and objectives depend to a large degree on 100 years of dyestuff manufacture, strong sustainability, and do not remain only as conthe feedback we receive from our stakeholdcustomer relationships, the skills of its emtributors. We provide a working environment ers and readers. We listen to and learn from ployees, and the foresightedness of its that recognizes the needs of our multiculturyour views and responses. So may I also take management. Anticipating the demand for al and geographically-dispersed workforce. this opportunity to thank you for your supsustainable production practices in the texWe understand the importance of personal port and constant engagement with us as tile industry, we were amongst the first to growth for our employees throughout their we continue on our journey to sustainability! recognize sustainable action as a business careers, and offer opportunities for them to imperative. We have leveraged our sustainenhance their knowledge and skills through ability vision to improve our own production a wide variety of training and development processes, to develop innovative products programs. We also aim to ensure the highest and services and to promote environmental possible standards of occupational health best practice along the whole of the textile and safety for our entire workforce but parHarry Dobrowolski supply chain. ticularly for those directly involved in dye Group CEO / President and chemical manufacture. Strict adherence We published our first Group sustainability to the relevant health and safety regulations report in 2010 and it was at that time that we and national and international labour standestablished concrete goals for reduction of ards is a mandate for all our sites. our operational impacts. As our production has increased so has our resource consumpWe continue to encourage our employees tion but both our emission intensity and to play an active role in the various commuresource use per tonne of production have nities in which we operate. Initiatives such fallen significantly over the last 4 years. We as donation of food and money in disaster remain committed to reducing our resource struck regions, helping integrate differentlyand emission intensity by continuous proabled people within society, and helping cess improvement. This is a big challenge those suffering from HIV/AIDS were just for us as our product mix is both very broad some examples of activities undertaken by and extremely dynamic as we respond to DyStar employees during the 2013. constantly changing market and customer requirements. Today, I can say with confidence, that we have gained significant momentum in our This year a greater proportion of our total sustainability efforts. We have invested heavmanufacturing output was in dyes – which ily in new product research and develophave much higher resource intensity than ment, we are providing high quality products THE SUSTAINABILITY COMMITTEE Gerald Talhoff Ron Pedemonte Dr. Charu Jain VP – Global Manufacturing & Supply Chain Head of DTS & Sales Areas America Global Sustainability Manager DyStar Group In 2013 we decided to increase our backInnovation and sustainable solutions are We see sustainability as a journey rather wards integration because we had come the two pillars of on which our product than a destination. We started this journey to the conclusion that manufacturing development rests. We design products & in 2010 and set ourselves specific milestones certain intermediates in-house would be services which not only improve our own to reach. Our operations and products are inmore sustainable than buying them. This environmental and safety performance creasingly becoming more environment and did slightly and temporarily increase our but also shorten production time, optimize socially responsible. Even though we have energy and water intensity. However, our resource consumption and provide best in come a long way, we have further to go. In goal remains unchanged: We want to be class quality to our customers. Our cuscoming year, we also hope to bring our supthe most sustainable suppliers of dyes, tomers are appreciative of our approach pliers and customers at par with DyStar own chemicals and services to the world’s texand their satisfaction and acceptance is sustainability benchmarks. Our ultimate aim tile industry and we improve our perforevident from the increase in our market is to be a defining member and lead the way mance continuously. By 2020 we will have shares/sales. We continue to monitor the towards a cleaner textile industry. reduced our emissions by at least 20% emerging needs of the dynamic textile compared to our 2010 levels. All employindustry and will strive to meet every reees in Manufacturing and Supply Chain are quirement of our customers in a sustaincommitted to this. able manner. ABOUT THE REPORT 01 02 Scope and Boundary Reporting Process The DyStar Group started its Sustainability Reporting Process approach for data collection, measurejourney in 2010, and since then has been sucThe entire reporting process is led by DyStar ments and calculations for our entire opcessful in its endeavour and has progressed Group’s Sustainability Committee. The erations. Any assumptions and methodology along its journey. This is DyStar Group’s fourth committee is further supported by a crossused for the analysis or reporting are includannual Sustainability Report published for functional project team with representative ed in the report as applicable. the year 2013. The report reviews the compamembers from all production sites and ofny triple bottom line (i.e. Economic, Environfices. An IT based sustainability data manageThe report is made available in a PDF version ment and Social) performances. The report ment software is deployed for the collection online at www.dystar.com. In accordance also forms a part of our formal Communicaand analysis of sustainability information. with the company environmental policy to tion of Progress (COP) to the United Nations There is no external assurance sought for the conserve resources, only a limited number of Global Compact (UNGC) principles. current sustainability report. However, a two hard copies have been printed. tier verification process has been designed The intended readers of this report shall into the software system to strengthen the The intended readership of this report ininclude all key stakeholders employees, data collection process. cludes individuals and groups who are capasuppliers and contractors, shareholders and ble of influencing DyStar’s operations, may investors, customers, regulatory authorities, The key material issues reported for the curhave an interest in them or may be affected industry associations, non-governmental rent period were identified through a wellby them. This group comprises employees, organizations, academics, industrial peers, defined formal process of engagement with suppliers and contractors, shareholders and media and local communities. The report the representatives of various stakeholder investors, customers, regulatory authorities, has been prepared in accordance with the groups. Details of this selection process and industry associations, non-governmental orGlobal Reporting Initiative (GRI) G3.1 Guidethe prioritized topics are given in the “Stakeganizations, academics, industrial peers, melines as per the Application level B and covholder Engagement and Materiality” section dia and local communities. ers 22 Core and 11 Additional Indicators. Our of the report. The key aspects and indicators last report was published for the reporting were chosen on the basis of the material isWe solicit your feedback to improve upon period 2012. sues to form the content of this report. our reporting process in the coming years. Any query with respect to this report may be Scope and Boundary of the Report While reporting on performance indicators, addressed to: sustainability@DyStar.com The report captures the sustainability perforan attempt is made to apply a uniform mance data for our business units, facilities and subsidiaries1 that are operationally and financially controlled by DyStar Group. Exclusions in the report boundary include third party warehouses, agents and Lenmar Chemical Corporation. In 2013, DyStar Group acquired the assets and business of Lenmar Chemical Corporation of Dalton, Georgia and we intend to include the data from Lenmar in our sustainability report from 2014 onwards. Operations at the production plant in Hangzhou, China, were discontinued during the course of the current reporting period. 03 1 Data only from subsidiaries with more than 20 employees has been included in the report. ABOUT DYSTAR VISION STATEMENT DyStar Group is one of the leading global organizations delivering quality dyes, performance chemicals, and color solution services to the textile industry. The company offers a complete range of colorants, auxiliaries and “We aspire to become the world’s services. DyStar Group is owned by DyStar most sustainable and responsible 2200 Global Holdings (Singapore) Pte Ltd, a spesupplier of colors, chemicals and cial purpose vehicle jointly owned by Indiaservices to the global textile industry.” based Kiri Dyes and Chemicals Limited and EMPLOYEES China-based Longsheng Group. In 2013, we acquired the assets and the business of 14 12 Lenmar Chemical Corporation of Dalton, Georgia. Lenmar is a very successfully spePRODUCTION cialty chemical products manufacturer serFACILITIES COUNTRIES vicing the Textile and Carpet, Fiber processDYNAMIC ing, Laminate floor, Water treatment, Oil and Agriculture Industries. PARTNERS Our operations are managed by 2200 emIndia-based Kiri Dyes Chemicals Limited + $822M USD China-based Longsheng Group = Jointly ployees and are spread across 12 countries owns DyStar Group. with 14 production facilities and sales offices REVENUE 2013 in all key regions. The company has its headRecently acquired the assets quarters in Singapore2 . In 2013 our revenue and businesses of Lenmar was $822 million USD with share of 45% in Chemical Corporation. Asia, 30% in Europe and 25% in America. OUR WORLDWIDE PRESENCE • Bangladesh • Brazil • China/Hong Kong • China/Shanghai • Egypt • Germany • India • Indonesia • Italy • Japan • Korea • Mexico • Pakistan • Portugal • South Africa • Spain • Taiwan • Thailand • Turkey • USA 2 For more details on company profile, locations and operations, please refer to our website 04 http://www.dystar.com/ or our previous sustainability reports at http://www.dystar.com/Sustainability.cfm OUR PRODUCTS OUR & SOLUTIONS DYES DyStar offers a wide range of products and DyStar is the world’s leading 1.REACTIVE 6. CATIONIC LEVAFIX® ASTRAZON® services to support the entire textile value supplier of textile dyes. We have PROCION® chain. Our product innovation has resulted by far the broadest product PROCION® PX 7. PIGMENTS in about 1,500 product-related trademarks range on the market, coverREMAZOL® IMPERON® across 100 countries worldwide. Our proding almost all fibres and quality 2.DIRECT 8. DIGITAL PRINT ucts are designed to provide safe, toxic free specifications. SIRIUS® JETTEX® and environmentally friendly solutions to our 3.VAT 9. MORDANT customers. All of our products are manufacIX AN L INDANTHREN® DIAMOND® tured and sold in accordance with applicable I XD ZO FI VA MA X O 4. ACID 10. REACTIVES RETTEDIG A chemical legislations such as REACH®. DyStar LE IO TELON® FOR WOOL offers many items which comply to indusJDE ON I N ERRM PR OC SUPRALAN® REALAN® YC SLVADE N ISOLAN® try eco-label standards such as Oeko-Tex® SO N ZO 11. SULPHUR Standard 100 or individual brand and retailer T RA 5. DISPERSE CASSULFON® AS DIANIX® Restricted Substances Lists (RSLs). Several PALANIL® 12. INDIGO “Positive Lists” are published on the DyStar website. OUR AUXILIARIES Dystar has a wide range of textile auxiliaries which is AUXILIARIES designed to offer solutions for the entire textile wet processing chain – Spinning/Weaving, Pretreatment, Dyeing, PrintSERA® EVO® LAVA® ing, Laundry, finishing and coating. LEATHER & FUR Dystar offers superior quality leather dyes based on our expertise in leather chemistry. Our products are available in several vibrant colours and also help optimize the ecological profile of leather production for our clients. We are the original producer of Boehme® Fatliquors and Auxiliaries. Our products suit every application from economical shoe upper dyeing to high fastness upholstery leathers and high-fashion products. By taking advantage of our specialised services our customers are able to meet a wide range of test specifications and ecological requirements. Some examples are Oeko-Tex® Standard 100, RSLs from various brands and the SG label for leather manufactured without toxic chemicals. Our detailed product profile can be accessed on http://www.dystar.com/ Products.cfm 05 OUR SERVICES Ecology Solutions econfidence® An ecological solution that offers an extensive range of sustainable products and dervices Enable our customers to undertake responsible and sustainable production Advise clients on relevant legislations and ecological issues Give guidance on DyStar products suited to meet various ecological specifications and requirements Color Solutions International (CSI) Leading provider of color standards and color communication tools for sustainable color communication services Supports brands and retailers by providing color tools, building color palettes, engineering colors and standards, and managing distribution to industry partners. Testing Solution Texanlab ISO 17025 certified, boutique testing laboratory with experience of testing over 125,000 samples of dyes, chemicals, fabrics and apparel for ecological parameters Has expertise in ecology testing and analysis according to the requirements of CPSIA, REACH®, EU Eco-label and brands & retailers’ RSLs (Restricted Substances Lists). Sustainable Textile Solutions (STS) Focus on three main components: consultancy, auditing and capacity building Dedicated to assisting brands, retailers and industry partners implement sustainable textile Sustainable Textile production that meets their quality and eco-requirements and makes more efficient use of resources S olutions Our detailed services profile can be accessed on http://www.dystar.com/Services.cfm 06 OUR MEMBERSHIP CSR, sustainability and ecology organizations United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) Sustainable Apparel Coalition (SAC) Textile Exchange The Ecological and Toxicological Association of Dyes and Organic Pigments Manufacturers (ETAD®) Bluesign® Global Apparel, Footwear and Textile Initiative (GAFTI) Singapore Compact for Corporate Social Responsibility National Committee of Responsible Care®, Indonesia Industry associations Textile and Fashion Federation (Taff ), Singapore Brazilian Association of Chemistry, Brazil Association of International Chemical Manufacturers (AICM), China China Dyestuff Industry Association, China Ankleshwar Industries Association, India Anyer Merak Cilegon Chemical Manufacturer Association, Indonesia South African Dyers and Finishers Association, South Africa German Chemical Industry Association (VCI), Germany Society of Dyers and Colourists, UK American Association of Textiles Chemists and Colorists (AATCC), USA American Apparel and Footwear Association (AAFA), USA. ABIT (Associação Brasileira das Indústrias Têxteis) – Brazilian Association of Textile Industries. ABIQUIM (Associação Brasileira das Indústrias Químicas) – Brazilian Association of Chemical Industries. SINPROQUIM (Sindicato das Indústrias de Produtos Químicos) – Union of Chemical Products Industries. ABQCT (Associação Brasileira de Químicos e Coloristas Têxteis)Brazilian Association of Textile Colorists and Chemists. 07 OUR ECONOMIC INCREASED PERFORMANCE REVENUE DyStar financial performance has seen a considerable improvement this year. Our Our gross revenue has increased from the previous year consistently for all PRODUCTION gross revenue has increased from the previthree operations Asia, Europe and UP 10% ous year consistently for all three operations America. Asia, Europe and America. This has been possible due to our persistent effort to remain TABLE 1: DYSTAR’S ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE efficient in our operations thereby reducing (MILLION USD), 2013 costs, delivering quality products to our expanding client base and focused approach Economic Performance 2012 2013 on R&D and innovation. Direct Economic Value Generated Revenues 764.14 822.86 Our production increased by 10% this year Asia 337.28 372.90 while we maintained our operational cost at Europe 228.27 239.98 approximately the same level. This exhibits a Americas 198.59 209.98 high level of efficiencies in managing our opEconomic Value Distributed erations. We are happy to report that this year Operating Costs 634.77 638.76 the economic value retained for the compaAsia 335.20 356.18 ny is in positive. We feel this is foreshowing Europe 188.55 164.24 of a much stronger financial performance for Americas 110.31 118.34 the company in coming years. Employee Wages and Benefits 109.28 107.20 Asia 47.46 43.34 Our total expenditure on purchases has gone Europe 42.86 41.56 up this year as our production has increased. Americas 18.96 22.31 However, keeping in line with our past pracpayments to Providers of Capital 23.33 12.55 tice, we continue to purchase primarily from Payments to Government 7.15 14.49 our local suppliers. This helps us control qualEconomic Value Retained (10.39) 49.87 ity, costs, meet delivery targets and make our operations efficient. Approximately 61% TABLE 2 : EXPENDITURE ON LOCAL SUPPLIERS of our total material is purchased locally and (MILLION USD), 2013 almost all of services IT, transport, maintenance, calibration, cleaning, security, freight 20123 2013 transport, utilities, insurance, and consultanAmount spent on local suppliers 336.61 434.86 cy services are sourced locally. Total Purchase value 566.31 706.68 Percent sources from local suppliers 59.4% 61.5% 08 3 The values have been updated for year 2012. SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH AT DYSTAR For the last few decades, various governments, international agencies, scientific Material Issues for institutions, industries, NGOs, media and Dyes and Chemical industry large masses of people across the world are actively advocating sustainable existence. In• Energy and water conservation dustries are a focal point of the movement, • Waste and pollutant reduction primarily owing to their large scale consumption of natural resources, a significant impact • Occupational health and safety on human resource, surrounding communi• Product safety and innovation ties and overall society. • Compliance with laws and regulation Dyes and Chemicals manufacturing industry • Financial risks and economic have also seen strong movement towards sustainability responsible consumption from both external and internal stakeholders. DyStar Group as a major player in dyes and chemical industry is mindful of this growing awareness. We have aligned our sustainability approach with the overall issues faced by the industry and aims to address these issues through coherent and consistent efforts Benefitting each year. As a responsible member of this stakeholders industry, we are committed to continuously Product safety and econfidence® monitoring our impact in all three arenas of sustainability and implementing strategies to attain our short and long term goals. Envisioning opportunities Advocating We account for the environmental impact of responsible our operations in the form of GHG emissions, TOWARDS A MORE environmental SUSTAINABLE DYSTAR and social consumption of energy, water and other removement sources, effluents and waste generation. We are aware of our impact on the health and Achieve Voluntary safety of the customers, employees, and the reduction targets by 2020 local communities. With the objective of fulReduce Energy, filling our responsibility towards them, we Water, Waste and Two fold Carbon Emissions design and implement innovative systems, Sustainability programs and strategies to reduce such imStrategy and Management Approach pact and to address the relevant issues. We assist our customers in reducing their environmental impact by providing a wide range of sustainable products and ecological solutions for their operations. 09 Our Management Approach & Two Fold Strategy As the main consumer of dyes and colors, have established goals and targets for rethe textile, apparel and leather indusducing energy consumption, greenhouse try, also uses significant amount of water gas emissions, waste and wastewater. At and energy while using these products the same time, we continue to invest in to process fibers and fabrics. As the leaddeveloping eco-friendly products and services. ing manufacturer of dyes and chemicals, DyStar recognizes twin opportunities and We believe that creating societal and enmotivations to reduce energy and water vironmental value is integral to sustaining consumption in our own operations and long-term shareholder value. For examalso in customer’s operations. Introducing ple, reducing consumption of energy and innovative products and services that help waste lowers costs for the company and our customers to reduce their water and minimizes impact on the environment. We energy consumption helps us to grow our therefore place sustainability at the core of market share of ecological dyes and colors. our business strategy. It also positions DyStar as a reliable partner in a market where apparel and textile Our approach is to achieve sustained busibrands are continuously looking for ways ness growth and reasonable return on to make their supply chain more sustainable. investments by continuously making our operations efficient, ensuring quality and Our strategic approach to sustainability service excellence, and offering innovative and focus on ecological solutions helps us and eco-friendly products. meet emerging regulatory requirements and increasingly stricter product compliance criteria set by our customers. Product reMarket and Customer Focus sponsibility therefore is a key piece of our sustainability approach and strategy.We Expertise in Product & Service Leader in Product Safety & Ecology Quality Understanding the Brands & Retailers People Excellence Innovation Integrity CORE VALUES OF OUR MISSION 10 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT Our stakeholders are integral to DyStar’s An extensive stakeholder engagement exerList of Prioritized sustainability journey. Constant expansion cise was conducted in the reporting period, Stakeholders of our business in the dynamic global envi2013. The aim of this exercise was to assess ronment implies an ever widening group of the key sustainability issues that the stakefor 2013 stakeholders for the company. To keep ourholders believe are material to DyStar. The • Shareholders / Investors selves abreast of the diverse expectations stakeholders were surveyed through detailed of our key stakeholders and integrate them questionnaires that brought forth a number • Full time employees with our business goals, we constantly enof material issues. Out of the sample set of • Customers gage with our stakeholders to collect their material issues chosen by the stakeholders, inputs on our performance as well as address we prepared a final list of five most material their concerns. This helps us define our path issues for the organisation. towards sustainability. While we engage with a diverse group of FIGURE 3: ISSUES IDENTIFIED stakeholders throughout the year, there are BY DIFFERENT STAKEHOLDERS few groups of stakeholders who are the most critical for our operations. These have been identified by taking feedback from different groups of stakeholders and management of Material Issues Material Issues Material Issues the company. A formal structure is used to Internal Stakeholders External Stakeholders Top management identify the key stakeholders for the com• Use of recycled material • Health and safet impacts • Economic performance • Economic performance of products on customers • Ensuring no human rights pany. Using this approach, over the last four • Environmental impact of • Product quality violation in operations years, we have systematically aligned our materials used • Compliance with regulations • Product quality goals with the expectations our stakeholders • Compliance with • Appropriate labelling of • Disposal of effluents regulations products and services • Disposal of solid waste have of us. • Disposal of effluents • Environmental impact of • Occupational health and materials used safety Based on the feedback received from our internal & external stakeholders, industry analysis and management input, following issues emerge as material issues for the company: • Economic performance of DyStar • Environmental impact of materials used by DyStar • Disposal of effluents from DyStar operations • Compliance with regulations • Health and safety impacts of DyStar products on our customers, employees DyStar has designed and implemented comprehensive and well-defined systems to engage with its stakeholders. Based on the response received from our stakeholders, we continue to improve our sustainability performance to match their expectations. Whenever necessary, we also revise these systems to prepare a more inclusive stakeholder engagement system for the company. 11 TABLE 3: STAKEHOLDER EXPECTATIONS AND DYSTAR’S RESPONSIBILITY Stakeholders Stakeholder Expectations DyStar’s Responsibility Modes of Engagement • Quality of products • Invest in research and development • Provide information through various • Customer privacy with a two pronged approach, namely public and private channels such as • Minimal environmental impact of ensuring high quality products, and our website, product brochures, DyStar products and materials development of more environmentally social media and updates. • Health & safety impacts of products sustainable products and services. • Organize meetings and seminars for on customers • Compliance with health and safety customers on environment, sustainability Customers • Appropriate labeling of DyStar regulations, and labeling requirements and our products’ecological advantages. products based on various standards and • Attend industry forums and conferences. regulations. • Conduct regular meetings with • Maintain customer information in customers to exchange information. highly secure systems. • Provide services such as sustainability audits based on current industry and legislative requirements • Sustained and long-term growth of • Formulate critical business strategies • Update shareholders on company business. for profitability and sustainability performance and sustainability • Reasonable return on investment • Timely and effective implementation initiatives through periodic meetings Shareholders of such strategies • Create stronger and long lasting brand equity. • Collaborate on supply of quality • Develop a network of reliable • Continuous dialogue with our key products and services. suppliers and work closely with them suppliers • Fair selection, and respect for to source high quality products and Suppliers contractual obligations. services. • Establish long-term relationships. • Influence them to continuously improve their social and environmental performance. • Occupational health and safety • Strict adherence to health and safety • Management interaction with • Opportunities for growth regulations. employees in a number of ways on • Reward for performance • Provision of protective gear and regular basis • Fair treatment regular health checkups for the workforce. • Continuous review of the HR policies Employees for fairness and equality. • An open-door policy to provide employees at all levels access to management for sharing views and offering feedback. • Reward and recognize outstanding performance. 12 OUR SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE Continuous engagement and interaction with the industry and our stakeholders has presented a plethora of avenues that are Ensure Sustainable Provide responsible Promote Ethical being explored to integrate sustainability in Operations products & services Practices our business. We have classified these under Optimize our resource Provide safe and Promote good govthree key areas: consumption and environmentally ernance, improved reduce any negative friendly products to employee relations environmental impact our customers in a and social responsiresponsible way bility 1. ENSURE SUSTAINABLE OPERATIONS DyStar is dedicated to maintain environmenucts that require less energy and water and electricity to run our machineries and steam tal sustainability of our operations and meet result in lower quantities of harmful waste. as process requirement, mainly for heating our environmental goals. We identify, evaluWe continuously monitor our performance purpose. Most of the energy including steam ate, prioritize and manage environmental in these key areas against the internal benchis purchased from external suppliers or govaspects in various areas of operations such as marks established by the company. On the ernment agencies; however at few places we design, development, manufacturing, storbasis of the assessment, we develop approdo use natural gas and diesel to generate age, packaging, and transportation. We also priate strategies to address and prioritize relsteam within the facility. In addition to these, monitor use and distribution of raw materials evant issues. a small quantity of diesel is used for transporand natural resources, waste management, tation and LPG in our processes. and impact on biodiversity. DyStar has im1.1. ENERGY plemented environmental management sysCONSUMPTION In 2013 our overall energy consumption intem (EMS) at three of its sites and intend to Energy is one of the most closely monitored creased by 11.72 % from 2012 levels. There expand it further to cover all other sites. resources in our company and effective enare two reasons for this: ergy management has been a key focal point a.) Our total production volume increased by Various production sites and offices with of our sustainability program since its incep12% from 2012, thereby increasing our deexpert support from DyStar’s Process Detion. With increasing costs and limited availmand for energy velopment teamsundertake steps such as ability, energy has become a valuable comb.) The product mix contained a larger quanalternate product mix, improve operational modity. We also realize that generation of tity of dyes and related intermediate stages. efficiency, and use modern and efficient energy has direct impact on climate change Dyestuff production required a relatively technology to reduce the overall usage of through emission of greenhouse gases. more energy intensive production process resources and generation of water and efthan the manufacturing of auxiliary chemifluents. The R&D and Product Development With 14 production plants and over 20 officcals. This product mix effect has contributed teams at DyStar continue to develop new es & laboratories spread across the world, our to the increase of our energy consumption. products or new ways to manufacture prodenergy requirement is naturally high. We use 13 Table 4 : DyStar Energy Consumption Unit 2011 2012 2013 Total Direct Energy kWh 145,286,560 84,511,631 93,295,159 GJ 523,032 304,242 335,862 Total INDirect Energy kWh 265,197,203 224,203,606 251,606,027 Grid Electricity Purchased kWh 88,421,119 69,383,175 74,979,492 Purchased Steam kWh 176,776,084 154,820,431 176,626,535 FIGURE 4 : ENERGY CONSUMPTION AT DYSTAR 410,484 344,901 Energy Management SYSTEM ENERGY CONSUMPTION (Mwh) 308,715 265,197 At DyStar Colours Distribution GmbH, Germany we have decided to im251,606 plement an Energy Management System as per ISO 50001guidelines. 224,204 The preliminary work was started in 2013 and the final certification is INDIRECT ENERGY expected to be received in 2014. The Energy Management System will DIRECT ENERGY 145,287 TOTAL ENERGY help to manage energy consumption according to an international 93,295 84,512 standard and find additional savings potentials. The company will also receive tax benefits from the state for implementing an EMS according to ISO 50001. Despite producing more energy intensive system when not in use, replacing existing equipproduct mix, we have succeeded in keeping 2.) At Wuxi Production plant in China: ment’s with more energy efficient ones, our energy intensity at a similar level to our • Capacitors were updated and the power maintaining optimal temperature of air conproduction in 2012. factor was increased ditioners, use of timer-plug for daytime op• The production process was optimized and erating, such as ice maker, water dispenser This has been possible due to the strong emagitation time of buffer vessels was reduced etc.; putting stickers on light switches to inphasis we put on monitoring and managing • Replacement of compressors to optimize crease employees’ awareness, promoting car our energy consumption at all locations. We usage pool usage at our locations to optimize fuel have an energy conservation campaign on3.) At Naucalpan production plant in consumption in vehicles. At several places, going throughout the year and operational Mexico: we have optimized the size of our offices to teams at all locations that keep working on • A campaign was run to save energy in fit with our manpower requirement. This has initiatives to reduce energy consumption. electric lighting and use of electronic and also helped us avoid unnecessary energy Some of the notable initiatives taken by our computer equipment. consumption. units this year are: 4.) At MemMartins production unit in Portugal, the use of preheated Our measured savings in year 2013 in are 927, 1.) At Nanjing plant in China many prodispersing agent was reduced 960 kWh. grams were launched to enhance energy 5.) At Samutprakarm production unit in efficiency in 2013 such as: Thailand, production planning was reWe have set the target of reducing our ener• Optimize agitation time in buffer vessels arranged to reduce cleaning and fuel gy consumption by 20% by 2020 compared • Optimizing agitation in the production consumption to 2010 targets and we are working towards process of cationic dyes achieving this target. On a positive note, the • Better control of electrical heat tracing In our offices, laboratories and R&D center absolute emissions of DyStar have come • Modification of the air compressor system electricity is closely monitored and all posdown by 15% from 2011 levels. We continue to adjust power consumption to current sible steps are taken to reduce the wastage to monitor our energy consumption very needs of electricity. Some of these measures are closely at all locations. • Improvement in the efficiency of the chiller switching off lights during lunch hours or 14 1.2. MANAGING OUR GHG EMISSIONS DyStar was one of the pioneer companies IT enabled cloud based sustainability data product mix including their intermediate in the dyes and chemical with established management tool for better access, control stages. We decided to do so because we systems to monitor its carbon emissions at and increased accuracy of the data collected. are convinced that manufacturing certain group level. Our first report was published Constant efforts are always put-in to make intermediates in-house is the better option for the year 2010 and since then every year our data collection system more robust and in terms of product safety and a sustainable we release our annual carbon footprint reerror free. Further, the assumptions used manufacturing process than to outsource port to our stakeholders. . The assessment is every year are revised as per the latest interthem, even if our own carbon footprint apconducted as per WRI/WBCSD GHG Protocol national guidelines. pears somewhat higher by doing so. Corporate Standard and in accordance with the requirements of ISO 14064 – 1: 2006 In 2013, the total GHG emissions of DyStar Together, our five largest dyestuff manufacstandards. 4 increased by 12.83% to 159,799 tCO2e comturing plants Ludwigshafen, Germany; Nanpared to 2012. The increase in emissions is jing, China; Gabus, Indonesia; Omuta, Japan Considering the wide geographical spread primarily attributed to increased overall proand Wuxi, China are responsible for 96 perof our operations, we have deployed an duction volume and a more energy intensive cent of total emissions. TABLE 5 : DYSTAR’S GHG EMISSIONS Emissions (tonnes c02e) Emissions source TOTAL 2011 % 2012 % 2013 % GHG SCOPE 1 31,019 18% 18,0975 13% 18,554 12% emissions SCOPE 2 142,670 82% 123,536 87% 141,245 88% Total CO2e emissions 173,689 100% 141,633 100% 159,799 100% FIGURE 5 : DYSTAR’S GHG EMISSIONS 142,670 141,245 123,536 82% 87% 88% 31,019 18,097 18,554 18% 13% 12% SCOPE 1 SCOPE 2 173,689 141,633 159,689 Total CO2e (tonnes) Total CO2e (tonnes) Total CO2e (tonnes) 15 4 For more details on methodology, boundary and detailed results, you can refer to our website www.dystar.com 5 The figures for 2012 are different from those reported in the last year’s GHG Inventory. In 2012, GHG emissions attributed to stationary combustion at Ludwigshafen were double counted as Process Emissions. Hence, the figures have been corrected in the current report. FIGURE 6 : EMISSION SOURCES 2013 3% 9% For DyStar, Scope 2 continues to be the major source of emissions and is responsible for 88.4% of total emissions in 2013. Scope 1 emission, with a share of 11.6 % in total emissions, primarily comprise emission from stationary combus29% 59% tion, company owned vehicles, refrigerant losses and chemical processes. Under Scope 1, natural gas combustion contributes the largest share. PURCHASED STEAM PURCHASED ELECTRICITY NATURAL GAS STATIONARY OTHERS FIGURE 7 : % OF TOTAL EMISSION PRODUCTION & 96% 96% 97% NON PRODUCTION SITES The production plants of DyStar located in various parts of the world account for the major share of emissions. In 2013, approximately 97 % of the emissions were released 4% 4% 3% by the production plants and only about 3 % were contributed by offices and laboratories. 2011 2012 2013 Our overall emissions intensity has increased TABLE 6 : GHG EMISSION INTENSITY from 1.20 tonnes CO2e per tonne of producGHG Emission Intensity per tonne of production 20116 20127 2013 tion in 2012 to 1.26 tonnes CO2e in 2013. This Total CO2 emissions (tonnes) 173,689 141,622 159,799 is an increase of 5.3 % from last year. HowevProduction Volume – FG w 40% Indigo Soln.(tonnes) 119,116 118,411 126,897 er, our intensity in 2013 is still 13.64 % lower Emission Intensity (tonnes CO2e / tonne production) 1.46 1.20 1.26 than the intensity in the year 2011, which % Change with respect to previous year -17.98% 5.29% was 1.46 % Change with respect to Base year -13.64% The increase in our emission intensity for the FIGURE 8 : EMISSION INTENSITY FOR PLANTS year 2013 has been due to change in our (TCO2e/T PRODUCT) product mix. In 2013, the share of dyes in our product mix was close to 50 compared INTENSITY OF DYE PLANTS to 44% in 2012. As dye manufacturing is comparatively more emission intensive, our 2.56 2.39 INTENSITY OF 0.09 0.08 overall emissions intensity has increased. However, intensity ratios at our production plant have gone down which shows that our AUXILIARY PLANTS operations are improving and we are releasing lower emissions per tonne of production. 16 highlights from 2013 GHG assessment Some highlights from 2013 GHG assessment in its emission intensity with respect to 2012. are: At all locations we continue to work on re• The largest dye production plant, Ludwigducing our absolute emissions in spite of our shafen’s emission intensity in 2013 reduced product mix. All the initiatives by DyStar to by 13.5% as compared to 2012. reduce energy consumption directly reduce • Emission intensity at Gabus reduced by our carbon emissions as well. By 2013, we 14.5% as compared to 2012 have reduced our emissions by over 13% • Nanjing and Wuxi have kept their emisfrom base year. We remain committed to our sions steady and at par with 2011 levels emission reduction target of 20% on a GHG • The second largest production plant for intensity basis by 2020. auxiliaries, Corlu reported a reduction of 7.5% 1.3. WATER CONSUMPTION FIGURE 9 : WATER INTENSITY Textile and chemical industries are major bodies. Municipal supply is mostly used in 2013 consumers of water, with dyestuff producour offices and R&D centres. At some places, tion and dyeing being two of the most wawe also draw groundwater through pumps 95 ter intensive stages in the entire value chain. but its share is very minor in our total water On the other hand, water is increasingly bebalance. Along with energy, water is also a coming an important and limited resource. key area in our sustainability agenda and we Industries are competing with communities have committed to a reduction target of 20% 59 for fresh water and cost of available water is by 2020. In 2013, our absolute water conrising. With all these factors in place, it besumption increased by 4.5 % from 2012 levcomes imperative for us to optimize water els. However considering that our total proutilization in our operations. duction increased by 12% during the same 55 period, we achieved higher level of efficiency We need water both due to process requirein water usage. Our water consumption per ments, especially cooling, and as well as a tonne of product has decreased from 59m3 part of our products. Most of our water reper tonne of production in 2012 to 55m3 in WATER CONSUMPTION (CUBIC METER) quirement is met from surface water where 2013 and in fact shows a 42% reduction since PER TONNE OF PRODUCTION we draw water from available surface water 2011. TABLE 7: WATER CONSUMPTION AT DYSTAR Consumption from Water Sources (m3) 2011 20126 2013 Ground water consumption 194,660 115,599 119,578 Municipal water consumption 3,244,336 1,333,786 1,654,851 Surface water consumption 5,821,265 5,353,361 5,334,869 Total Water Consumption 9,269,530 6,802,705 7,109,298 17 6 The figures for 2012 are different from those reported in the last year’s Sustainability report. We are making constant effort to improve our data collection process and the numbers were revised as part of the process. FIGURE 10 : WATER SOURCES 2013 2% WATER 18% MANAGEMENT GROUND WATER As part of our water management strategy, 80% MUNICIPAL WATER other than process efficiencies, we focus on SURFACE WATER two main areas: A. Recycling of water B. Effluent Management A. Recycling of WATER At DyStar, we strive to recycle water as much Water for cooling purpose is kept strictly sepas possible without compromising on our arated from any chemical process. Cooling process or product quality. Our operations takes place through indirect heat exchange require huge quantities of steam. At most via plate or bundle heat exchanger systems sites, we recover the condensate and reuse or jackets in reactor vessels and other equipit as process water. The recycled water is also ment. Cooling water does not get contamiused in the cooling systems. Most of the wanated; it is strictly monitored and can be diTABLE 8 : RECYCLED WATER QUANTITIES ter used in cooling systems gets evaporated. rectly reused or sent back to rivers. In 2013, 2013 The rest is used for non-production activities we recycled 1,688,019 m3 of water which is Total water recycled (m3) such as cleaning of equipment, vessels and 23.84 % of our overall water consumption. Year Recycled Water floors. 2011 1,780,000 2012 1,691,079 2013 1,688,019 B. Effluent MANAGEMENT We discharge our water in accordance with We use a variety of techniques neutralizaTABLE 9: WASTE WATER DISCHARGED, the local rules and regulations at all our sites. tion, coagulation and sedimentation, aerobic 2013 Quality of discharged water is maintained and anaerobic ponds and reactors, vacuum Total waste water discharged (m3) within the stipulated limits. All our producevaporator, ultrafiltration and reverse osYear Discharged Water tion units either have their own wastewater mosis and other processes for treatment at 2011 1,792,395 treatment units or are connected to external various locations. We do not allow any of our 2012 1,552,400 facilities. We are permanently monitoring wastewater to be reused by another organi2013 1,638,286 and analysing our waste water before diszation. charging to state certified treatment facilities. WASTE WATER DISCHARGE 24.86% 22.82% 23.04% RECYLCED WATER AS 23.74% 19.20% AS PERCENTAGE OF 19.33% PERCENTAGE OF TOTAL WATER TOTAL WATER FIGURE 11 : RECYCLED WATER FIGURE 12: WASTE WATER DISCHARGED %, 18 TABLE 10 : WASTEWATER TREATMENT AT DYSTAR Production Facility Destination of wastewater Treatment Method South Africa Pietermartizburg Darvill Waste Water Settling tanks to allow sludge to settle and Treatment Facility treatment for stable pH between 6.5 – 7.5 Brazil – Apuina River Itaja Açú Chemical & biological treatment China Nanjing Nanjing Chemical Industry Treatment for heavy metal of waste water Park Waste Water Treatment within the facility. Discharged to third party for Plant further pre and final treatment China Hangzhou The waste water treatment Waste water is treated through a waste water plant in HEDZ treatment plant located within HZ plant, and is discharged when COD is below approved limits India – Ankleshwar No discharge outside plant Waste water is filtered, passed through ultrafiltration and passed through 2 stage Reverse Osmosis system Portugal MemMartins Sludge sent for offsite Distillation through a vacuum evaporator treatment through licensed contractor. Mexico – Naucalpan Public Sewage NA Japan – Omuta Mitsui Chemicals, Inc. (Omuta plant) Neutralizing coagulation and sedimentation Thailand – Samutprkam No discharge (used for gardening) Anaerobic pond, Sequence Batch Reactor Turkey – Corlu River Ergene Biological and chemical treatment USA – Reidsville City of Reidsville water Wastewater goes through a coagulant tank, treatment facility is pH adjusted in a flocculants tank, and then passed through a dissolved air flotation unit before discharge 1.4. HANDLING WASTE In our manufacturing process, we generate than 50% of the total waste material. Noncertain quantities of solid and liquid waste hazardous waste mainly consist of paper, material both hazardous and non-hazardous typical household waste material, packaging in nature. Hazardous waste mainly consists of material and wooden or plywood pallets that packaging material from raw material supdid not have any contact with chemicals. plies as well as of some product residues and residues from the distillate recovery of solAt DyStar, we have systems established to vents or from waste water treatment. Such ensure proper treatment is done of the waste residues are of liquid or solid nature whereas before being disposed in a safe and responthe packaging material usually is solid matesible manner. rial (big bags, pallets, paper bags, inliner of drums, etc.). As soon as there has been any The total amount of waste generated is procontact with chemicals we regard the packportional to our production output and in aging material as potentially hazardous. Due 2013, with a significant increase in producto the quantity of packaging material, the ration; we have also generated higher quantitio of our hazardous waste material is more ties of waste. 19 TABLE 11 : TOTAL WASTE GENERATED Waste 2011 2012 2013 Hazardous Waste (MT) 5,783 4,099 5496 Non-Hazardous Waste (MT) 3,378 3,911 4256 Total Waste 9,161 8,010 9752 Hazardous waste per t of production 0.059 0.035 0.043 Non-Hazardous waste per t of production 0.035 0.033 0.033 Overall waste per t of production 0.094 0.069 0.076 Due to the different product mix with a highwaste is in general sent to licensed contracFIGURE 13 : SOURCE OF WASTE % er degree of backwards integration, the spetors for safe disposal. Non-hazardous waste cific quantity per ton of total finished goods is generally given to waste management production output also increased. services of local municipal authorities. None of these wastes are transported outside the We dispose all our waste material in accordphysical boundaries of the country where ance with rules and regulations set by lothe unit is located. Some of the key initiatives cal governments and the guidelines stated taken by our units for waste management in by the pollution control boards. Hazardous year 2013 are: NON-Hazardous waste Hazardous waste 1.) At Pietermaritzburg, Africa: Engaged services of an external agency for segregation of waste into hazardous and non-hazardous. This helps maintaining a more accurate account of waste generated. A drive to adopt the three tier system was initiated and reports are generated on a monthly basis to show the amount of waste generated and the amount we have saved by recycling. 2.) At Nanjing, China: New waste collection & storage location was built and recycle regulation was established. Totally, Nanjing plant recycled 83,480kg waste. Found the qualified supplier to recycle some nonconformity product and waste solvent thereby avoiding the incineration treatment and optimize utilization of material. 3.) At Naucalpan, Mexico: Plastic containers were taken back from customers for reusing. 4.) SA Production Reidsville: Reduction of 40% of trash to landfill by continuing our recycling program for cardboard, plastic bottles, glass, aluminum and paper 5.) Singapore R&D: Following rules and principles have been enforced No chemical is allowed to be poured into the washing sink Use the least water and efficient cleaning reagent to clean the laboratory glassware in order to reduce the waste generation; Recycle and reuse the organic solvents from reactions and workup processes Heavy duty dilution tank containing charcoal filter fixed below the sink to remove the residual organic chemicals from the waste water Use more “green chemistry” concepts to reduce the waste discharge in new product development 20 1.5. SPILL MANAGEMENT At DyStar, we have well defined spills manincidents. Operators were made aware of the agement procedures. We saw a number of impacts and were asked to ensure safer hanspills in 2012 and have made a concerted efdling in future. Production and maintenance fort to train our employees and contractors teams increased their efforts to identify weak on safe material handling procedures. As a points in operation (e.g. gaskets, pipe conresult of this activity, number of spillage innectors, pressure conditions, handling of cidents has gone down from 14 in 2012 to drums and bags) and implemented preven3 in 2013. Our target is zero spills and we are tive actions to reduce the risk of spill inciworking towards this goal. dents further. Corrective actions were taken for all spillage TABLE 12 : SPILLS 2013 Location of Spill Product(s) spilled Total volume of spill (annual number) South Africa – Pietermaritzburg Butyl Acrylate Chemical spill on soil surface 0.3 m3 (1 spill) Turkey Kimya Corlu LAVA Sperse KDS – Chemical spill on soil surface ® 0.09 m3 (2 spills) LAVA® Cell BLU – Chemical spill on soil surface Total 0.39m3 (3 spills) 2. PROVIDE RESPONSIBLE PRODUCTS AND SERVICES ‘Product Stewardship’ and ‘Industry Outopment of product concept, R&D, registraThe REACH® Regulation places greater rereach’ are the two forces that define our tion, Manufacturing and Production, Marketsponsibility on the industry to manage the sustainable product and services endeavor. ing & Promotion, Storage, distribution and risks from chemicals and to provide safety We produce a wide variety of industrial supply, Use & service and disposal, reuse or information on products. The regulation chemicals to cater to the clients in the texrecycling. requires manufacturers and importers to tile and leather industry. Some of these gather information on the properties of their chemicals may prove to be harmful to huDyStar has built its core strength in Product chemical substances, to facilitate their safe man health in case of uncontrolled expoStewardship through continuous research handling, and to register the information in sure to them. Therefore, constant attention and innovation. Our R&D is driven by the a central database administered by the Eurois given to quality control for such potenneed to provide healthier, safer and more pean Chemicals Agency (ECHA) in Helsinki, tially hazardous chemicals. We ensure that ecologicallycompatible products for the Finland. DyStar is in a position to declare that risk of heavy metal contamination is miniapparel industry. its products do not intentionally contain any mal in our products. At the same time, it of the 155 substance groups that have been is our aim to provide our customers with 2.1.1. PRODUCT SAFETY proposed in the ECHA®Candidate List of SubREACH® UPDATE high quality and widest range of products stances. and services. REACH® (the Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction of Chemicals) is In 2013, we also successfully complied with 2.1. PRODUCT STEWARDSHIP the European Community Regulation on Phase II of the regulation the registration all Product Stewardship is a core value of the chemicals and their safe use to protect the chemical substances in the tonnage band DyStar brand. For us, product stewardship environment and health, which came into ef100 – 1000 tons/year by 31st of May 2013 – means responsibility to continuously reduce fect on June 1, 2007. REACH® continues to be and submitted another 20 registration dosany negative safety, health and environmenthe most demanding international chemisiers by the end of the year, most of them as tal impact from our products. We assess all of cal legislation. REACH® implementation and Lead Registrant. our products for health & safety impacts at compliance has been a key priority at DyStar each stage of the product lifecycle – Develeven before the legislation came into force. Besides our competence in textile dyes, 21 these dossiers make use of our huge archive handling of products, operation of plants, of toxicological and eco-toxicological testing and responsible use of resources. reports that we have collected over many years. These registrations already cover most DyStar provides substantial information of the high volume textile dyes that DyStar about the safe handling, storage, transsupplies to the European market. DyStar foport, use, and disposal of its products to its cuses on registrations in the second tonnage customers, sales partners and distributors. band. DyStar also welcomes the UN activities on development and revision of the “Globally Since the market for textile dyes is dominatHarmonized System of Classification, LabelInformation present ed by specialties, the number of chemicals ling and Packaging of Chemicals (GHS)” and ON DyStar will increase significantly in the coming years its national implementations. product labels up to the 2018 deadline. Owing to this, we • Content, particularly with regard to have already submitted the next registration DyStar reviews and updates its Hazard Labels substances that might produce an dossiers to ECHA® as we intend to register all as well as Safety Data Sheets, for substances environmental or social impact individual substances contained in our prodand mixtures, in compliance with the na• Safe use of product ucts within the respective deadlines tional regulations or standards respecting in• Disposal of the product and dividual transitional periods for implementaenvironmental/social impacts 2.1.2. TRANSPARENCY IN tion. This helps us ensure that information on LABELLING & COMMUNICATIONS physical hazards and toxicity from chemicals Owing to our global supply chain and cusis available in order to enhance the protectomers, it becomes imperative that our tion of human health and the environment labeling practices are consistent with interduring handling, transport and use of cheminationally recognized standards such as CLP cals, and to facilitate global trade activities. and GHS. We offer a wide range of products. By following the international standards, we There have been zero incidents of non-comare able to provide our global clientele depliance with voluntary codes or regulations tails about the components and other relresulting in a fine or penalty, warning in the evant information related to our products. reporting period. The Global Corporate Communications team at DyStar has developed a Corporate Design 2.1.3. SUSTAINABLE Manual that specifies all forms of communiMATERIAL USAGE cation materials for its employees. Strict adAn important aspect of our product stewherence to this manual ensures standardizaardship is sustainable material usage. Our tion of the company logo, brand colors and process requirement is such that we cannot corporate typefaces. This document was upuse any recycled material as our raw material. dated in the reporting period to incorporate However, we ensure that all are raw materials any required additions / changes. are utilized efficiently. DyStar’s Code of Conduct emphasizes on We also recycle our packaging material wherinforming its customers that they are being ever possible. In order to make our packagoffered environmentally sustainable soluing more sustainable, we are relooking at our tions. We take utmost care to ensure that our packaging requirement and working to eiproducts are made, handled, transported, ther reduce our consumption or use sustainand disposed safely. Our commitment to the able material as source for packaging matecorporate principles and goals of maximizing rial. Some of the initiatives we have taken in safety and environmental protection guides past few years are: new product and process development, 1. Packaging and selling products in IBC con22 tainers of 1000 kg capacity instead of 50 or 200 kg drum. LEADER IN Remazol® Onyx RGB & Remazol® Midnight Black 2. Cleaning and reusing IBC and PE drums, INNOVATION RGB, Remazol® Ultra Ruwhich contained raw materials for finished bine RGB, 5 Dianix® XF2 products. Innovation is one of the dyes, Dianix® ECO Black 3. Plastic IBCs and drums are emptied by core values at DyStar. HF and Indanthren® Navy customers and returned to our supplier for We have an active Research SR-N Coll. cleaning and reuse. & Development Department 4. All products, where applicable, are put into tasked with developing the recycling program for plastic containers. new products and processes 5. We buy recycled PLCD200, 200 liter drums for synthesis and application for packaging our products at the site in Naucalpan, Mexico. to support our leading position in the textile dyes NEW 6. At our manufacturing site in Nanjing, ChiPRODUCTS and auxiliaries industry. na, the plastic bags of indigo powder are sent LAUNCHED back to the supplier for recycling and reuse. water, and polluting effects.DyStar launched research on the applicability of our dyestuff 2.1.4. SUSTAINABLE several new dyes and auxiliaries in 2013. ranges for the various sustainable fiber bases. INNOVATION With environmentally compliant dyestuffs, Innovation is one of the core values at DyStar. Some major highlights involving new pathighly experienced process expertise and a We have an active Research & Development ented chemistry are Remazol® Onyx RGB & solid foundation of textile industry knowlDepartment tasked with developing new Remazol® Midnight Black RGB, Remazol® Uledge, DyStar can help its customers face the products and processes for synthesis and aptra Rubine RGB, 5 Dianix® XF2 dyes, Dianix® upcoming challenges of the new eco fibers plication to support our leading position in ECO Black HF and Indanthren®Navy SR-N and contribute towards realizing sustainabilthe textile dyes and auxiliaries industry. Our Coll. The Jettex® range for digital printing ity in the textile supply chain. rich heritage of over 150 years of R&D, includwas also extended and new auxiliaries ining intellectual property inheritance from cluding the Evo® Xen series and a fluorine2.2. INDUSTRY OUTREACH our antecedent companies, has resulted in free water repellent agent were introduced. DyStar has committed itself to working in more than 1,700 patents and patent applicapartnership with groups that are seeking tions worldwide. 2.1.5. SUSTAINABLE SOLUTIONS to reduce the environmental impact of the FOR ALL FIBERS textile supply chain and in particular on miniWe build strategic collaborations with cusRecently, with the increase in consumer inmizing the use of hazardous chemicals. The tomers, industry partners, institutes and uniterest and the establishment of third party details of such commitments are given in our versities, to help us anticipate our customers’ Certification systems a greater focus has Sustainability Report 20127. Brief updates on needs and meet them too. Our high perforbeen given by the textile companies to the these activities: mance textile dyes and auxiliaries have improduction of sustainable fibers. New alterproved ecological and toxicological profiles, natives have been investigated, developed 2.2.1. ZDHC (ZERO DISCHARGE and are of a consistently high quality that and introduced to the market. Challenges OF HAZARDOUS CHEMICALS) enables optimized coloration and superior arise when these fibers have to be processed DyStar is an active member of the Technitechnical, environmental and economic perin the industry using the available dyestuffs, cal Advisory Committee (TAC) of the ZDHC formance. auxiliaries, and chemicals. The Best Available Group and our Sustainable Textile Solutions Technology has to be identified in order to business unit provided expert input and onOne of the key innovation goals for DySmaintain the sustainable nature of the fiber the-ground assistance in the development tar’s R&D is to help customers achieve new and to achieve sustainability in processing of an audit protocol for ZDHC. DyStar has milestones in terms of product and process in order to deliver the sustainable end prodcreated a positive list of products in keeping excellence, including shorter or more ecouct. DyStar anticipated these challenges well with its “Zero Discharge of Hazardous Chemnomical dyeing procedures, reduced water ahead due to its network of contacts with icals” commitment. This list includes those and energy consumption, and lower waste, innovative fiber producers and started its DyStar products that do not contain as 23 7 To read the details of the commitments, please visit http://www.dystar.com/2012-Sustainability-Report.cfm intentional ingredients any of the 11 chemical REALIZING groups restricted by the ZDHC group. In fact, the vast majority of our products do not contain any of these chemicals as ingredients. DyStar has always been committed to the SUSTAINABILITY highest standards of product safety and through DyStar has committed itself to working in its econfidence® program is actively supportpartnership with groups that are seeking to ing the objectives of the ZDHC Group. reduce the environmental impact of the textile supply chain and in particular on miniAs an example DyStar had already stopped mizing the use of hazardous chemicals. the use of alkylphenolethoxylates (APEOs) in the manufacture of all global dyestuff and pigment preparations before the 2001 European Union agreement on a program for the cessation or phasing-out of AP and APEO, and the 2003 EU directive 2003/53/EC introducing marketing restrictions on AP and APEO. 2.2.2. SUSTAINABLE APPAREL Sustainable Textile S olutions COALITION (SAC) The Sustainable Apparel Coalition comprises brands, retailers, manufacturers, government, and non-governmental organizations 2.2.4. OEKO-TEX® STANDARD 100 about GOTS® standards and organic cotton. and academic experts, representing more In 2013, DyStar updated its brochure giving 2.2.6. SUSTAINABLE TEXTILE than a third of the global apparel and footproduct selection guidance for articles reSOLUTIONS8 wear market. The Coalition is working to required to comply with Oeko-Tex® Standard At DyStar, our Sustainable Textile Solutions duce the environmental and social impacts 100 (Version 4/2013), the most widely used (STS) division helps brands and retailers monof apparel and footwear products around textile Eco label worldwide. itor and improve the capability of their supthe world. DyStar joined the SAC in 2012 and ply chains to achieve compliance with their has supported the development of the Higg 2.2.5. GLOBAL ORGANIC TEXTILE environmental, health and safety standards. Index as a common tool for assessing the STANDARD (GOTS®) The services we offer include: sustainability of supply chain partners. In parDyStar was one of the first companies to have ticular DyStar is supporting the implementaits products approved to the GOTS® standard 1. Restricted Substances Lists (RSL) tion of the Chemical Management module and now has an extensive range of products Compliance Assessment of the Higg Index at wet processing facilities approved to Version 3.0 of the standard. 2. ZDHC Benchmarking & Improvement through capacity building programs run by 3. Textile Mill Efficiency Assessment Sustainable Textile Solutions. DyStar’s testing laboratory subsidiary, Tex4. Chemical Inventory Management anlab is one of the few laboratories that has 5. Root Cause Analysis 2.2.3. BLUESIGN® capabilities of testing Dyes, Chemicals and Having joined the bluesign® platform as a Auxiliaries for the Textile Chemicals, Auxiliary STS supports the ZDHC group in creation of system partner in 2008, DyStar now has more and Dyes industry as well as for the Processits audit tool. During 2013 STS carried out than 900 textile dyes and pigment preparaing Industry to GOTS® Standards. over 150 chemical management/ZDHC audits tions, and more than 200 textile auxiliaries on behalf of its clients. STS also provides listed in the bluefinder® database. This gives Since 2007, Texanlab has tested over 2800 training to brands, retailers and their industry manufacturers the widest possible choice of samples for compliance to GOTS® standards. It partners on chemical management. quality products to choose from when proworks closely with leading certification agenducing bluesign® approved fabric. cies to organize seminars to build awareness 24 8 For more information on Sustainable Textile Solutions, please visit www.SusTexSolutions.com 3. PROMOTE ETHICAL PRACTICES 3.1. STRONG GOVERNANCE Governance at Dystar is driven by our Board of Directors and Senior Management team comprising of five members each. Together they are responsible for guiding the compaBOARD OF DIRECTORS ny to achieve our long terms goals in a transparent and sustainable manner. Mr. Ruan Weixiang, Chairman Mr. Manish Kiri, Director Our board members are industry experts with Mr. Chang Sheng, Director years of expertise in handling corporate afMr. Xu Yalin, Director fairs and governance. They oversee and supMr. Amit Mukherjee, Director port promotion of transparency and good corporate governance in the company’s policies and operations. The board is headed by a Chairman who is not an executive officer of the company. Our board comprises of all SENIOR male members. Primary responsibility of the board includes: MANAGEMENT Mr. Harry Dobrowolski, Group CEO & President • Oversee the utilisation of financial resources Mr. Viktor Leendertz, Group CFO • Appointment and compensation of senior Mr. Eric Hopmann, Sales Area Management – Europe management Mr. Klaus Kadletz, Sales Area Management – • Risk management and ensuring TAME (Turkey, Africa & Middle East) compliance with laws and business ethics Mr. Ron Pedemonte, Sales Area Management – Americas / DTS • Review business plans and the strategic direction of the company on a quarterly basis Audit Committee Conduct an independent review of the effectiveness of the financial reporting process The Group CEO and President develops straExamines company’s internal controls through regular audits. tegic plans and policies in consultation with senior management, which are presented to Remuneration Commitee the Board for approval. Senior management also periodically sensitize the employees Review and recommend remuneration framework for the management and employees about ethical business practices and DyStar’s Ensure remuneration and Human Resource policies of the company are aligned with expectations through company meetings its strategic objectives and various other internal communication Ensure the policies are well-suited for recruitment, motivation and retention of employees. channels. Simultaneously, our employees are given direct access to senior management to raise their concerns or suggest any improvements in our policies or operations through our Open Door Policy. We have also established two core committees to assist the Board and the senior management in performing its tasks. Primary responsibilities of these committees are: 25 GOVERNANCE FOR SUSTAINABILITY Given our strong focus on sustainability, we have also created a Sustainability Committee for driving the sustainability agenda in the company. The committee is four member strong and is headed by our Group CEO and President. While the committee is responsible for designing and monitoring sustainability strategy of the group, the ground level operations are handled by a team which includes heads of Production and Supply Chain and designated sustainability champions in different countries. Our Global Sustainability Manager is the Chairman spokesperson for the company on sustainGroup CEO / President ability related issues and is responsible for communicating and executing the company’s strategy to the external stakeholders and internal sustainability team. Primary responsibilities of the committee are: Vice President Vice President Global Global Americas & Global Head Manufacturing & Sustainability DTS Supply Chain Manager • Formulate and direct DyStar’s sustainability Management strategy • Set sustainability agenda for DyStar Group and identify sustainability goals and initiatives • Select the GRI performance indicators for Global Sustainability the company and reviews annual sustainability Project Team data • Review the overall progress of sustainability targets, environment management systems, health and safety, and ethical code of conduct DyStar’s Sustainability Committee Structure 26 OUR CODE OF CONDUCT At Dystar, we strive to conduct our business activities with utmost integrity and in line with our code of conduct9 which is integrated with our core values. This code is binding for all our employees and the companies who are a part of the DyStar Group. Our code of conduct guides us on our management approach both for internal stakeholders and external stakeholders. Within the organization, it promotes transparent operations, employee satisfaction, and health and safety parameters. Externally, it promotes CODE OF CONDUCT healthy competition, customer satisfaction, • Compliance with laws and regulations respect for local laws and above all high • Protect Intellectual property rights product quality. • Fair competition • Separation of private and company affairs COMPLIANCE • • Safety, health and environmental protection Product and service quality Being an international organization with op• Relationships with employees erations across 13 countries, it is our respon• Cooperation with authorities sibility to ensure we conduct our operations in accordance with the local laws and regulations. Global Compliance For this, we have established a Global ComFunctions Objectives pliance Function to ensure adherence of processes, rules of actions, laws and stand• Foster a culture of honesty and high ethical standards ards, social accountability guidelines, code of • Evaluate and mitigate risks for the Company conduct, company guidelines and manage• Raise awareness among employees on the need for ment directives by DyStar staff. This function adherence to laws and regulations is driven by: • Improve public image of the Company 1.) Our Global Compliance Officer who is responsible for ensuring compliance at all locations. He is supported by a team of designated officers responsible for local compliDYSTAR LIST OF ances, and INTErNATIONAL 2.) Group Legal Counsel who is responsible CERTIFICATIONS & for interacting with governmental authorities in cases of deviation and also advises MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS employees on laws and regulations, and legal considerations in case of deviation and ISO 9001: 2008 non-compliance ISO 14001:2004 27 9 For detailed version of our code of conduct please visit http://www.dystar.com/my_uploads/file/DyStar_COC_Final_060812_01.pdf 3.2. EMPLOYEE RELATIONS DyStar believes in building life-long relaTOTAL TRAINING tionships with its workers. It is our constant endeavour to provide safe and productive HOURS workspace for all our employees. We aim to UP 145% meet our aspiration to become an ‘employer of choice’ in the industry. In order to meet this objective, we strive to provide a professionally challenging and engaging workplace for our diverse workforce. 29474 WORKFORCE TRAINING 11983 We put a lot of emphasis on keeping our 7034 TRAINING HOURS workforce up-to-date with the latest technological trends through training programs and production-line enhancements. We regularly review the training requirements of employees and based on that an annual training calendar is prepared. Some of the trainings TABLE 13: EMPLOYEE TRAINING HOURS completed in the year were on safety production, pressure vessel & Forklift. Details 2011 2012 2013 Our total training hours increased by 145% in Total Lost Days – Injury 34 266 184 2013 from year 2012. This was due to shiftLost Days Rate 2.42 27.55 16.01 ing of our operations from closing units to Total Occupational Disease Incidents 0 0 0 other locations. Additional training was proOccupational Disease Rate 0 0 0 vided to the plant employees on equipment Total Workplace Injuries 8 9 25 handling, safety and operations as part of the Injury Rate 0.57 0.93 2.18 process. Fatalities 0 0 0 TABLE 14: DYSTAR’S SAFETY RECORD OUR HEALTH & SAFETY PERFORMANCE Following a precautionary approach towards follow strict guidelines to work on our sites.10 here to our strict measures on PPE usage. health and safety, DyStar has developed The implementation and training is ensured Periodical medical checkups, followed by and implemented a policy for plant safety by the Ecology, Health, Environment and special treatment for those suffering from and hazard prevention as part of its “GuideSafety (EHES) departments at each of our particular health issues are arranged for the lines for Responsible Care in Environmental sites. employees. Protection and Safety”. Herein, in the design stage of plants, we identify and assess the We fulfil our responsibility to provide sufWe comply with all applicable local and nahazard potential, and risks associated with ficient protection to our employees from tional health, safety regulations and labor processes. Keeping such risks to the minidirect and long-term health risks by identilaws, such as COIDA (Africa), ISHL (Japan), mum is one of the essential criteria for the fifying such hazards and providing informaand OSHA (USA). We also promote environnal choice of the design and processes. New tion, training, and suitable protection. Both mental protection and safety through demachines to be installed on-site and new new and experienced employees are trained tailed internal guidelines for the employees. products to be launched in the market unregularly on health and safety issues through dergo requisite safety assessment as per the safety camps, toolbox talks and safety camlegal norms. Our subcontractors also have to paigns. We ensure that the employees ad28 10 For more details on Occupational Health and Safety, refer to DyStar’s Sustainability Report 2012 International principles DyStar is committed TO • The international Labor Organization’s(ILO) core labor standards and Tripartite Declaration of Principles concerning With strict adherence to the health and safety Multinational Enterprises and Social Policy (MNE Declaration) policy and practices, DyStar has successfully • The Universal Declaration of Human Rights ensured zero fatalities in the last three report• The OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises ing periods. In year 2013, 25 injuries were re• The United Nations Global Compact Ten Principles ported from our sites. Though the number is higher than 9 injuries reported in 2012, the • SA8000 Standards severity of these injuries was lower, leading • The Responsible Care Global Charter to lesser number of lost days. This is significant progress towards safety of our employees at workplace. No cases of occupational Social Accountability Declaration disease were reported this year across any of – Key points our operational units. • Child Labour In 2013, our total workforce increased to Dystar does not support or tolerate child Labour within its 2195 from 212911 in 2012. This includes perarea of responsibility manent, temporary, expat, and contract employees. During the year 156 employees • Forced Labour left the organization making our employee DyStar does not engage in or support the use of forced labor turnover rate 7.21% for year 2013. • Health and Safety DyStar does everything it can to provide a safe and healthy 3.3. HUMAN RIGHTS working environment PRACTICES • Freedom of Association, Right to Collective Bargaining Dystar remains committed to operate in acDyStar respects the right of all personnel to form and join cordance with the ten principles of UNGC. trade unions and to bargain collectively We have set out our commitment to the • Discrimination Social Accountability Declaration in the DyStar does not tolerate discrimination on based on any form of a directive in the company’s Code of Conduct. We analyse and respond to every race, ethnic origin, gender, religion, philosophy, political or infringement of this formal obligation. We union membership, disability, age or sexual orientation. also ensure that our suppliers and sub-con• Disciplinary Practices tractors act according to this Declaration, as DyStar does not engage in or support the use of corporal long as we have the power to do so. punishment, mental or physical coercion and verbal abuse of its employees. We have not done any formal assessment of • Working Hours our operations for human rights violation, we DyStar complies with applicable laws and standards do not support or tolerate child Labour and • Remuneration forced or compulsory labor within our area of DyStar ensures that the wages paid always meet at least responsibility. We do not tolerate discriminalegal or industry minimum standards tion on any basis.All our employees have the • Management Systems freedom of association, right to form and join We regularly review and check the adequacy and effectiveness trade unions, and collective bargaining. The of this directive, and strive to improve its contents. representatives of trade unions have access to their members at the workplace. 29 11 We have revised workforce for 2012 to include contract workers. Contract workers were not reported in 2012 sustainability report. 3.4. KEY SOCIAL address their concern, we executed a three given contact numbers on whom to contact INITIATIVES IN 2013 stage process: should they experience any odour problems. DyStar’s social responsibility has been deSTAGE 1 : Operational changes : A rigid proAny odour complaints were immediately atfined keeping with main points of SA 8000, gram was implemented and procedures tended to and feedback was given to relevant an international standard on accountabilwere overhauled for our entire process stakeholder. We are maintaining a database ity and the principles of Responsible Care®. (scrubbers, extractor hoods, bulk loading to match the complaints to any situation, We believe in creating value for the society and off-loading couplings) to process all e.g., was it attributed to the manufacture of through community development activities. possible emissions during production were a particular product or activity on that day or In our operations, local teams are responsible neutralized before been emitted into the was there any off-loading of monomers. for identifying and executing social initiatives atmosphere. We trained our employees to STAGE 3: Set Acceptable Intensity and Frebased on the needs of the local community. reinforce methods to prevent the escape of quency Standards: We are in process of setfugitive fumes. We also invited ideas from our ting an acceptable benchmark for frequency We work earnestly to minimize any negaemployees to assist in identifying any potenand intensity of odour with input from tive impact our operations may have on lotial way of preventing fugitive fumes in our neighbors and community members cal communities and surrounding areas. In production process. We discontinued the the reporting period, we received only one polymer emulsion production which was the Since June 2013 there have been zero comcomplaint at our Pietermaritzburg plant in key contributor to the odour problem. plaints received from any stakeholder on the South Africa. The people in the surrounding STAGE 2: Stakeholder Engagement: We esissue. We did not receive any other complain areas complained about the odour in the air tablished a forum to develop a response against any of our office and laboratory faciliand attributed it to our plant’s operation. To protocol and the various stakeholders were ties in the reporting period. Supporting HIV/AIDS affected in Africa: Our production unit in Pietermaritzburg, Africa supports Tabitha Ministries that provide assistance to the communities of Pietermaritzburg to care for those affected by HIV/AIDS. They also run the Hope Centre for orphaned and abandoned children ranging in ages from birth to 6 years old. DyStar makes monthly donations to assist them in their efforts Helping the disabled in Brazil : Our Brazil production unit regularly donates money to a charitable entity APAE to support the cause of integrating the differently-able people into the society Food Donation in USA: The employees of Dystar’s production unit in Reidsville, USA, participated in the Rockingham County Food Drive on two separate occasions. Over 200 pounds of canned food was collected for the community. The employees of Dystar’s Reidsville plant also collectively donated meals to a needy family through the Kiwanis Club Disaster Management in Japan: DyStar’s production plant in Omuta, Japan has representation in the Association for Disaster Prevention of Omuta city, and the Association of Factory Fire Prevention of the city from May, 2012 to April 2014. The site manager is the Vice President for the former association. Community Assistance in Mexico: During 2013, to extend our support to the communities affected by hurricane in parts of Mexico, DyStar’s production plant in Naucalpan, Mexico donated clothes and toys to the affected communities. Money was donated to Hidalgo State donation for providing food to hurricane victims, and Guerrero State donation to donate used computers to schools 30 DATA AT A GLANCE KPI Description 2011 2012 2013 Economic EC1 Economic Value Generated (USD) – 764,138,154 822,864,771 Economic Value Distributed (USD) – 774,529,892 772,997,639 EC6 Economic Value Distributed (USD) 502,218,771 526,028,854 706,682,221 Amount Spent on Local Suppliers (USD) 282,266,532 263,173,985 434,856,785 Environment EN1 Raw Materials (MT) – 103,188 111,275 Packaging Material (MT) – 4,57714 4,770 Associate Materials (MT) – 1,002 1742 EN3 Direct Energy Consumed (kWh) 145,286,560 84,511,631 93,295,159 Direct Energy Consumed (GJ) 523,032 304,242 335,862 EN4 Indirect Energy Consumed (kWh) 265,197,203 224,203,606 251,606,027 EN8 Total Water Consumed (m3) 9,269,530 6,802,705 7,109,298 EN10 Total Water Recycled (m3) 1,780,000 1,691,079 1,688,019 EN16 Total Direct GHG Emissions – Scope 1 (tCO2e) 31,019 18,097 18,554 Total Indirect GHG Emissions – Scope 2 (tCO2e) 142,670 123,615 141,245 Total GHG Intensity (tCO2e/ton of production) 1.783 1.20 1.26 EN21 Total Wastewater Discharged (m3) 1,792,395 1,552,400 1,638,286 Wastewater intensity per t of production 18.40 13.48 – EN22 Hazardous Waste (MT) 5,783 4,099 5496 Non-Hazardous Waste (MT) 3,378 3,911 4256 Total Waste 9,161 8,010 9752 Hazardous waste per t of production 0.059 0.035 0.043 Non-Hazardous waste per t of production 0.035 0.033 0.033 Overall waste per t of production 0.094 0.069 0.076 EN23 Total number and volume of spills 38.1m3 (14 spills) 38.1m3 (14 spills) 0.39 m3 (3 spills) EN30 Environmental Protection Expenditure (USD) 7,148,359 8,147,284 8,971,565 Labor Practices & Decent Work LA1 Total Workforce 2419 2129 2195 LA7 Total Lost Days – Injury 34 266 184 Lost Days Rate 2.42 27.55 16.01 Total Occupational Disease Incidents 0 0 0 Occupational Disease Rate 0 0 0 Total Workplace Injuries 8 9 25 Injury Rate 0.57 0.93 2.18 Fatalities 0 0 0 LA10 Training Hours Total Male Female Total Male Female Total Senior Mgmt. 209 92 301 477 88 565 2004 Middle Mgmt. 292 199 491 1,048 1,117 2,165 Admin/Support Staff 736 500 1,236 1,461 2,934 4,395 3512 Technical Staff 478 456 934 4,113 4,619 8,732 Production Workers /Supervisors 1518 8,858 163.00 9,021 12,004 1,576 13,580 Average hours 2334 2115 282 23970 3,820 2,066 5,887 Total 7034 10,571 1,410 11,983 19,103 10,334 29,437 31 GRI INDEX G3.1 Content Index Profile Level of Location of Description Disclosure Reporting Disclosure 1.1 Letter from the CEO Fully Letter from CEO, 1 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities. Fully Letter from CEO, 1 2.1 Name of the organization. Fully About DyStar, 4 Our Products & 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services. Fully Solutions, 5 6 Operational structure of the organization (divisions, 2.3 Fully About DyStar, 4 operating companies, subsidiaries, and joint ventures) 2.4 Location of organization's headquarters. Fully About DyStar, 4 Number of countries where the organization 2.5 Fully About DyStar, 4 operates 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. Fully About DyStar, 4 2.7 Markets served Fully About DyStar, 4 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization Partially About DyStar, 4 Significant changes during the reporting period 2.9 Fully About the report, 3 regarding size, structure, or ownership. No awards received in 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period. Fully the reporting period 3.1 Reporting period Fully About the report, 3 3.2 Date of most recent previous report Fully About the report, 3 3.3 Reporting cycle Fully About the report, 3 Contact point for questions regarding the report or 3.4 Fully About the report, 3 its contents. 3.5 Process for defining report content. Fully About the report, 3 3.6 Boundary of the report Fully About the report, 3 State any specific limitations on the scope or 3.7 Fully About the report, 3 boundary of the report 32 GRI INDEX Reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased 3.8 Fully About the report, 3 facilities, outsourced operations, and other entities Data measurement, calculations, assumptions and 3.9 Fully About the report, 3 estimations Any re-statements of information provided in earlier 3.10 Fully About the report, 3 reports, and the reasons for such re-statement 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods Fully About the report, 3 3.12 Location of the Standard Disclosures Fully GRI Index 3.13 External assurance for the report Fully About the report, 3 Promote Ethical 4.1 Governance structure of the organization Fully Practices, 25 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance Promote Ethical 4.2 Fully body is also an executive officer. Practices, 25 Number of members of the highest governance body Promote Ethical 4.3 that are independent and/or non-executive Partially Practices, 25 members. Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to Promote Ethical 4.4 Fully provide recommendations Practices, 25 Qualifications and expertise of the members of the Promote Ethical 4.7 Fully highest governance body regarding sustainability Practices, 25 About DyStar, 4; Our 4.8 Mission Statement/ vision and other company codes Fully Code of Conduct, 27 Procedures of the highest governance body Promote Ethical 4.9 identification and management of sustainability Fully Practices, 25 26 performance Economic, environmental, and social charters, Our Code of Conduct, 4.12 principles, or other initiatives to which the Fully 27; Human Rights organization subscribes or endorses. Practices, 29 4.13 Memberships in associations Fully Our Membership, 7 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the Stakeholder 4.14 Fully organization. Engagement , 11 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders Stakeholder 4.15 Fully with whom to engage. Engagement , 11 Stakeholder 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement Fully Engagement , 12 33 GRI INDEX Key topics and concerns raised through stakeholder Stakeholder 4.17 Fully engagement and company’s response Engagement , 12 Disclosure on Management Approach Letter from CEO, 1; Economic performance Fully Our Economic Performance, 8 Environment aspects : Energy, Water, Emissions, Sustainability effluents and waste, Products and services, Fully Approach At DyStar, 9 Compliance Sustainability Environment aspects : Transport & Overall Partially Approach At DyStar, 9 LA : Employment, Labor/management relations, Employee Relations, Occupational health and safety, Training and Fully DMA 28 education, Diversity and equal opportunity HR : Non-discrimination, Freedom of association and Human Rights collective bargaining, Child labor, Prevention of Partially Practices, 29 Forced and compulsory labor SO : Local communities Partially Social Initiatives, 30 SO : Compliance Fully Social Initiatives, 30 Provide Responsible PR : Customer health and safety, Product and service Fully Products and Services, Labelling , Compliance 21 Provide Responsible PR : Marketing communication Partially Products and Services,21 Economic Our Economic EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed Partially Performance, 8 Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on Our Economic EC6 Fully locally-based suppliers Performance, 8 Environmental Data at a Glance, 31; EN1 Materials used by weight or volume Fully Sustainable Material Use, 22 Sustainable Material EN2 Recycled input materials Partially Usage, 22 Energy Consumption, EN3 Direct energy consumption Fully 13 Energy Consumption, EN4 Indirect energy consumption Fully 13 Energy Consumption, EN5 Energy saved Fully 13 34 GRI INDEX Initiatives to provide energy-efficient products and Energy Consumption, EN6 Partially services, and reductions achieved 13 Water Consumption, EN8 Total water withdrawal by source. Fully 17 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and Water Consumption, EN10 Fully reused. 17 Managing Our GHG EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions Fully emissions, 15 Water Consumption, EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination. Fully 17 EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. Fully Handling Waste, 19 EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills. Fully Spill Management, 21 Provide Responsible Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of Partially Products and Services, products and services EN26 21 Sustainable Material EN27 Reclaimed packaging materials Partially Usage, 22 Ensure Sustainable Environmental impacts of transporting products, Operations, 13; Provide EN29 Partially goods and workforce Responsible Products and Services, 21 Total environmental protection expenditures and EN30 Fully Data at a Glance, 31 investments by type. Social: Labor Practices and Decent Work Employee Relations, LA1 Total workforce Partially 29; Data at a Glance, 31 Employee Relations, LA2 Total number and rate of employee turnover Partially 29 Our Health and Safety Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days and LA7 Fully Performance, 28; Data work-related fatalities at a Glance, 31 Workforce Training, LA10 Training Hours Fully 28; Data at a Glance, 31 Social: Human Rights Operations identified with risk to right to exercise Human Rights HR5 freedom of association and collective bargaining and Fully Practices, 29 actions taken 35 GRI INDEX Operations identified with risk of incidents of child Human Rights HR6 Fully labor, and actions taken Practices, 29 Operations identified with risk of incidents of forced Human Rights HR7 Fully or compulsory labor, and actions taken Practices, 29 Social: Society Prevention and mitigation measures for any potential Partially Social Initiatives, 30 or actual negative impacts on local communities. SO1 Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, There have been no SO7 Fully and monopoly practices and their outcomes. legal actions Monetary value and number of cases for nonSO8 Fully None compliance with laws and regulations. Social: Product Responsibility Life cycle stages and percentage of significant Provide Responsible PR1 products and services assessed for health and safety Fully Products and Services, impacts 21 Monetary value for non-compliance concerning Fully None health and safety impacts of products and services. PR2 Transparency in PR3 Information provided on products and services Fully Labelling & Communications, 22 Monetary value for non-compliance with regulations Transparency in PR4 and voluntary codes concerning product and service Fully Labelling & information and labeling Communications, 22 Monetary value for non-compliance with regulations PR7 and voluntary codes concerning marketing Fully None communications Monetary value for non-compliance concerning the PR9 Fully None provision and use of products and services. 36 UN GLOBAL COMPACT INDEX The Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact UNGC Description Page Principle 1 Support and respect protection of Code of conduct, 27 ; Our Health and Safety internationally proclaimed human Performance 28; Human Rights Practices, 29 rights 2 Make sure business is not complicit in Code of conduct, 27 ; Our Health and Safety human rights abuses Performance 28; Human Rights Practices, 29 3 Uphold freedom of association and the Code of conduct, 27 ; Our Health and Safety effective recognition of the right to Performance 28; Human Rights Practices, 29 collective bargaining 4 Support elimination of all forms of Code of conduct, 27 ; Our Health and Safety forced and compulsory labor Performance 28; Human Rights Practices, 29 5 Support effective abolition of child Code of conduct, 27 ; Our Health and Safety labor Performance 28; Human Rights Practices, 29 6 Eliminate discrimination in employment Code of conduct, 27 ; Our Health and Safety and occupation Performance 28; Human Rights Practices, 29 7 Support a precautionary approach to Not reported environmental challenges 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater Ensure Sustainable Operations, 13 environmental responsibility 9 Encourage the development and Provide Responsible Products and Services, 21 diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies 10 Work against all forms of corruption, Not reported including extortion and bribery 37
