B U I L D I N G Y O U R T O M O R R O W T O D A Y 2014 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report Global R&D Innovation Center Center (Korea Incheon) (Czech Dobris) T E A M D O O S A N Acceleration Center (USA Bismarck) -1 ABOUT THIS REPORT Reporting Period and Scope Doosan Infracore’s integrated report covers the company’s activities in the 2014 calendar year. This report includes a Table of the Company’s Major CSR Performance Accomplishments for the past three years in the Appendix. This report largely deals with the accomplishments of the company’s worksites in Korea along with the performance of the company’s subsidiaries and worksites in China and the USA. Information on its global partners’ performance is CORPORATE OVERVIEW also covered by this report when necessary. Doosan Infracore continues to expand the reporting scope of this annual report. 2014 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report Reporting Principles This report faithfully follows the GRI’s G4 Guidelines (Core and AA1000 APS (2008)) with reference to the <IR> Framework of the International Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC). This report has applied International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) for financial statements. It has used AA1000 Stakeholder Engagement Standards (AA1000SES). External Assurance This report has been assured by Ernst & Young Han Young, an independent assurance service provider, which assures the propriety and integrity of the reporting processes as well as the accuracy and credibility of the contents in the report. Its Assurance Report is attached in the Appendix. 01 DOOSAN GROUP Additional Information and Feedback For additional information, please visit the company’s website (www. 0 3 T H E D O O S A N W AY doosaninfracore.com) or contact us at the address on the previous page. 0 5 C O M PA N Y P R O F I L E The Integrated Report 2014 contains the key strategies and activities of Doosan Infracore that concentrates on 'the enhancement of its fundamental competitiveness' under the spirit of its corporate slogan 'Building your tomorrow today.' The cover of the Integrated Report 2014 depicts the devotion of Doosan Infracore to the remarkable enhancement of its R&D capacity for the development of globally competitive state-of-the-art products as evidenced by the completion of its new cutting-edge R&D facilities in its major business bases (Korea, North America and Europe) in 2014. Disclaimer on Predicted Information This report contains details of some future activities, events and situations based on the company’s plans and estimations of future financial outcomes, which may turn out to be inaccurate in the event of changes in the global business landscape, despite the fact that the plans and estimations draw upon the best information available at the time of completion of this report, with due consideration given to future business environments as well as the company’s elaborate business strategies. Therefore, Doosan Infracore would like to remind its stakeholders that this report contains some predictions that may be affected significantly due to the risks, uncertainties and other factors involved in the company’s global operations. CORPORATE OVERVIEW 2014 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report 01 DOOSAN GROUP 0 3 T H E D O O S A N W AY 0 5 C O M PA N Y P R O F I L E DOOSAN GROUP Doosan: The oldest yet fastest growing company in Korea! 2014 Financial Highlights Affiliates (Unit: KRW billion (USD million)) Doosan’s ambitious dream began 119 years ago With 119 years of history, Doosan is the oldest enterprise in Korea. It is also the company with the greatest potential, having undergone continuous changes and achieving significant growth throughout the years. The 118-year history ISB(Infrastructure Support Business) of Doosan began in 1896 with the opening of “Park Seung-jik Store,” the first modern store in Korea which opened Total Assets in Baeogae (Jongno 4-ga), Seoul. By pursuing continuous growth, Doosan quickly emerged as one of the country’s Doosan Infracore strongest consumer goods companies specializing in beer and beverages, in particular. Following the successful vertical and horizontal systematization of its alcoholic beverage business, Doosan recorded a massive 80% market share in the 31,369.3 Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction business during the 1970s and 1980s in Korea. During this time, Doosan always topped the list not only of alcoholic (28,538) beverage businesses but also of many other types of consumer goods. Doosan Engineering & Construction Sales Doosan Engine Shifting to Infrastructure Support Business Doosan was faced with difficult challenges during the mid-90s due to market saturation and emerging of cut-throat competition in the domestic market. During this time, Doosan realized that it needed a total makeover based on “selection 20,468.2 Doosan DST and concentration” and decided to sell its beer division, the OB (Oriental Brewery), and integrate its multiple subsidiaries (19,434) under the Doosan Corporation. Such pioneering initiatives and preparations for future changes enabled Doosan to consolidate its position and become even stronger, weathering numerous national and international crises including the Doosan Corporation Total Equity Asian financial crisis of 1997-98. At the dawn of the new millennium, Doosan embarked on massive transformation to Doosan Corporation Electro-Materials become a global company, developing new growth engines and overhauling its business portfolio altogether. Through a series of successful mergers and acquisitions, Doosan completely transformed itself from a consumer goods company to 8,902.3 Doosan Corporation Mottrol an ISB (Infrastructure Support Business) provider, specializing in power generation, seawater desalination, construction & engineering, heavy machinery & construction equipment, energy, and production facilities. (8,099) Doosan Corporation Glonet Operating Income A Solid Profile and Capabilities as Global Corporation Doosan Corporation Industrial Vehicle 1,008.1 In the 2000s, Doosan made momentous inroads into the world market: In 2006, it acquired Babcock of the U.K., which Doosan Corporation Fuel Cell possessed coal-fired boiler technology, one of the core capabilities required by companies in the heavy industries, and enhanced its competitiveness in the relevant business areas. In 2007, it acquired Bobcat marking the largest M&A deal ever made overseas by a Korean company to date, enabling Doosan to significantly expand its lineup of construction (957) Doosan Corporation Information & Communications equipment and further strengthen its global competitiveness in the sector. As a result, Doosan is now ranked at the top * USD 1.00 = KRW 1,053.22 (Sales, in seawater desalination and power generation facilities in the world. Doosan has also developed 19 products that won Operating Income) / KRW 1,099.20 (Total Equity, Total Asset) CSB(Consumer & Service Business) the status of “World Class Korean Products”. It has secured global competitiveness in its major business areas. Doosan has also proven its global leadership in organizational operations. It hired people based on merits irrespective of races Doosan Capital and nationalities. It put foreign executives in the positions of top management. The proportion of foreign employees has reached 50%. In addition, Doosan has implemented up-to-date work procedures throughout its global network so that it Oricom can compete with any global business conglomerate. Neoplux Doosan’s Growth Engine Behind the success of Doosan is its unwavering “trust in people.” This was something our founder firmly believed in, Doosan Feed & Livestock who often had said, “investment in people makes the foundation for business.” This belief is well summed up in our 2G Strategy (Growth of People, Growth of Business). The 2G strategy has been the driver of our past successes and will Doosan Tower guide us through our journey toward prosperity in the global stage. At the heart of the 2G Strategy is the virtuous circle Doosan Bears of “growth of people laying the foundation for the growth of the company, and the latter leading back to the former.” With its trust in its employees and its continuous investment in human capital, Doosan was able to go through bold Doosan Cuvex restructuring and innovative portfolio transformation successfully. Doosan Magazine The Future of Doosan Doosan hopes to become a “Proud Global Doosan”, with firm belief and trust in people. “Proud Global Doosan” means becoming a company that every stakeholder is proud of. Our stakeholders include not only the employees and Auxiliary Organizations employers of Doosan, but also our customers, shareholders and the communities around us. Our vision is to become a company that everyone involved with can be proud of. To bring better life to mankind, for everyone who works for us Doosan Yonkang Foundation and for whom we work for, Doosan continues to walk forward, doing our best every step of the way. Doosan Art Center DLI-Yonkangwon Doo(斗) San(山) Doosan means “The little grains of sand that, all together, add up to make a mighty mountain.” It means great achievements can be made only when everyone involved joins forces. The name represents Doosan’s will to never stop walking until its goals are achieved, making history every step of the way. THE DOOSAN WAY Doosan People The Doosan Way, Doosan’s Belief and Cultivating People Doosan people approach others with respect and consideration. In Philosophy for Creating turn, we view our people as individuals, not simply a means to achieve a Proud Doosan in the World corporate performance. As people are the center of who we are, we take genuine care in their development, making their cultivation our top long-term priority. Inhwa Doosan Credo Our people understand that individual performance is vital to team performance. Each individual pursues the common goals of the organization and voluntarily collaborates based on mutual trust. They achieve strong teamwork in the truest sense of the word, one that is The Doosan Credo is a set of principles that represent Doosan’s philosophies and our unique way of firmly grounded on fairness and camaraderie. At Doosan we describe doing business. These principles have been the foundation of Doosan’s success for the past century. this as Inhwa. The Doosan Credo is integral to every aspect of our business and people, clearly guiding our decisions Limitless Aspiration and the way we do business. Through the realization of these values, Doosan accomplishes its ultimate Doosan people impose no limits to their aspirations, constantly setting goal. The Credo consists of Doosan’s “Aspiration” and “Core Values”. higher goals and standards. When we say “higher goals and standards”, these goals are not about just becoming Number One. They are about setting goals high enough to allow people to feel great personal pride when they are achieved. Imposing no limits to our aspiration means our efforts and improvements to constantly raise the bar are both unceasing and voluntary. The sense of achievement from achieving our goals Aspiration provides strong motivation to go beyond our individual limits, fueled by individual curiosity and passion. Our people find great personal meaning through this virtuous cycle, spontaneously and tirelessly driving their aspiration to the next level. Doosan’s ultimate goal is the creation of a “Proud Global Doosan”. In our Vision, each of our employees and all of our stakeholders will benefit from, and be proud of Open Communication Doosan people are completely open in communication. We have a strong their association with, Doosan. Every employee takes great pride in being a member of Doosan. Each trust base which allows colleagues to freely express opinions and value customer recognizes and appreciates Doosan’s high-quality goods and services. Every shareholder those of others, regardless of hierarchy. In fact, we have an obligation to values our fair and high levels of profit. provide constructive dissent when backed by clear rationale. When we make mistakes, we acknowledge them. We never hide them. People who acknowledge mistakes and keep their promises are truly worthy of trust. Such trust enables open communication. Tenacity & Drive Our people possess true tenacity and the drive to make even the Core Values hardest things possible. When faced with a problem, we never give up but exhaustively research every possibility until we find the answer. But we are different in how we define tenacity. We look at the situation from numerous perspectives, never simply relying on ourselves and our Doosan people practice the nine core values of the Doosan Credo. existing resources. Doosan people practice “smart tenacity” utilizing Doosan people practice the nine core values of the Doosan Credo everywhere we operate, every day, every available option and means, both internal and external, from to build a “Proud Global Doosan”. These values guide the way we do business, the way we treat each preparation to implementation, to achieve goals. At all times, we keep the concept of successful closure in mind and at the forefront of other and the way we work with all of our partners. The nine core values of the Doosan Credo are as everything we do. Where necessary, and without hesitation, we actively follows: seek out new ideas, knowledge, technologies and resources, regardless of origin. This allows us to access the best insights and talent in the market. People Inhwa Profit Prioritization & Focus Our people focus and prioritize on what matters most. Whatever task we Cultivating People World-class Technology and Innovation Social Responsibility are faced with, our work starts with identifying priorities. When priorities are set, we mobilize all available resources and go straight to the heart Integrity and Transparency Customers Safety & Environment of the hardest and most important issues, solving them once and for all. C O M PA N Y P RO F I L E Doosan Infracore aims to become a global leader in the machinery Company Name: Doosan Infracore Co., Ltd. BUSINESS OVERVIEW industry, providing the entire world with products of outstanding quality Year Founded: 1937 Doosan Infracore is equipped with the world’s highest standard of that maximize customer value on the strength of its top-tier technological technologies and products in the machine industry including construction CEO: Dong Youn Sohn prowess. Doosan Infracore’s goal of entering the select ranks of the equipment, machine tools, and engines. The Construction Equipment world’s top three machinery companies means being a company that Main Business Areas: BG has secured unique competitive edges in its diverse product posts the industry’s top revenues and profits, faithfully performs its Production and Sales of Construction lineup including excavators, wheel loaders, skid-steer loaders, heavy corporate social responsibilities, and provides the best value to all Equipment, Machine Tools, Engines attachments, and articulated dump trucks. The BG also has acquired interested parties, including its shareholders, constantly. To achieve this world-class construction equipment brands such as Bobcat, Geith and Employees: 14,518 vision, Doosan Infracore endeavors to practice the Doosan Way, establish Montabert. The Machine Tools BG has launched diverse new products, a powerful corporate culture that unifies its multinational employees, and Credit Rating: A (Corporate Bonds) including turning centers, machining centers, and multitasking turning foster global talent. Furthermore, in order to supply excellent products centers among others, and is emerging as the global leader on the that maximize customer value, Doosan Infracore is striving to enhance its strength of continual R&D investments and quality innovations. The capabilities to analyze market and customer needs, develop innovative Engines BG has secured a full lineup of products such as diesel engines technologies, secure fundamental quality competitiveness, and continue and gas engines that comply with various environmental regulations, and stepping up its productivity. is now emerging as an indisputable world-class engine company. 2013 FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS (Unit: KRW million (USD million)) Total Assets Total Equity Sales Operating Income 11,957,427 3,288,288 7,688,558 452,994 Doosan is a total brand of infrastructure support business (10,878 ) (2,992) (7,300) (430) (ISB) that provides diverse products worldwide in the areas of construction equipment, machine tools and engines, * USD 1.00 = KRW 1,053.22 (Sales, Operating Income) / KRW 1,099.20 (Total Equity, Total Asset) including excavators, wheel loaders, ADTs and mobile power generators. VISION 2020 Global Top-3 Machinery Bobcat is a world-class brand of Doosan Infracore’s midcompact equipment in diverse areas to-long-term goal is to including construction, landscaping, grow into a world-class agriculture and other industries, and machinery firm by joining provides total services encompassing Doosan Infracore will grow to become Global Top 3 Machinery Manufacturer everything from design and the ranks of global top 3 by 2020, by developing top-notch technologies and products based on manufacturing to distribution and companies in construction the Doosan Way, Doosan Group’s own management philosophy. support. equipment and machine tools by 2020. MID-TERM Geith, a brand of large attachment FINANCIAL GOAL products for excavators, has earned 2018 sales: KRW 13 trillion Construction Engines Machine Tools praise and recognition from numerous Doosan Infracore will customers around the world by Equipment achieve the goal by Global Top Tier Global Top 3 supplying products and services Global Top 3 Engines in Metal Cutting renowned for their excellence and implementing its mid-toreliability for more than 50 years. long-term strategy. Construction Equipment (including related business) Doosan Portable Power provides a global and comprehensive range of products supporting mining, drilling, entertainment, industrial, and construction market segments. The portfolio includes market leading portable air compressors, light towers, Technologies and Products light compaction products, and mobile The Doosan Way One Doosan Global Talent generators. This business was acquired from Ingersoll Rand in 2007. 2014 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report THE 3rd INTEGRATED REPORT GLOBAL Environmental Report 2008~2010 Sustainability Report 2010, 2011 MEGATREND! Integrated Report 2012 Integrated Report 2013 Annual Report ~2011 RISK OR Turn the wing page, and you will find a pocket book about Doosan Group and Doosan Infracore. OPPORTUNIT Y? Reporting method PRINTED MATERIAL This report is published in Korean, English and Chinese to facilitate communication with our global stakeholders. INTERACTIVE PDF This report is also published in an interactive PDF including a shortcut feature to related pages in this report or web pages containing related information for effective Reporting Purposes communication. You can download the PDF file or check This is Doosan Infracore’s third Integrated Report of its annual and for additional information at Doosan Infracore’s website sustainability management reports. Instead of a simple combination (www.doosaninfracore.com). of the two, however, this report is aimed to provide accurate information on the whole range of the company’s financial and non-financial performance for the stakeholders and internalize corporate social responsibility (CSR) throughout all its business activities. Icon used on this report Report Backgrounds Doosan Infracore began to publish an Integrated Report in 2013 in pursuit of genuine communication with its stakeholders. We did this CROSS-REFERENCE WEB VIDEOS to go beyond the level of effective communication with them through Links to pages Links to websites Links to videos that containing related containing additional or facilitate understanding its previous environmental, sustainability and annual reports. information or detailed related information of relevant topics contents in the report Reporting Organization To create a comprehensive report on Doosan Infracore’s financial and non-financial performance and social and environmental values, departments related to strategy, sales, IR, communication and so Contact us on have participated in the planning for the Integrated Report. More than 40 working level teams have worked on this report with a foCSR Team, Communication, Doosan Infracore 10F Doosan Tower Building, cus based upon business performance during the present period and 275 Jangchungdan-ro, Junggu, Seoul (100-730), South Korea into the future. E-mail: infracore.csr@doosan.com -4 -5 1. 2. TECHNOLOGY DIFFUSION GLOBAL RECESSION THE 3rd INTEGRATED REPORT RISK & OPPORTUNITY RISK & OPPORTUNITY Today, technologies are developing faster The world economy has yet to recover from the than at any other time in history, as well protracted recession that has continued for the as being diffused around the world at an last few years. Businesses have experienced unprecedented speed. The most significant serious difficulties in achieving profitable challenge faced by product manufacturers growth under such circumstances. Most notably, in the current era is that posed by the slower economic growth of China, one of Environmental Report 2008~2010 Sustainability increasingly shorter product lifespans and 2011 Report 2010, the biggest markets in the world, is impacting N innovation cycles. As a consequence, R&D Integrated Report 2012 S I O 2013 Integrated Report GL a large number of companies around the world. FU 2. R OB capabilities have emerged as the most DIF e ad in AL However, for those businesses that prepare Y us gC RE OG Foc important determinant for a corporation’s themselves for the post-recession period, the L h an CE Annual Report ~2011 competitiveness. In an increasingly globalized NO O ur ge SS current downturn could serve as an opportunity is s, IO business environment, building R&D hubs CH D Le N to secure competitive advantages by making around the world to respond to the needs of TE & ad new investments one step ahead of their markets and customers immediately enables 1 .R in g competitors. a company to enhance its R&D capabilities Su c in an unprecedented way. ce OUR RESPONSE STRATEGY ss Doosan Infracore has developed new OUR RESPONSE STRATEGY es technologies and products capable of meeting Doosan Infracore has completed the the ongoing changes in technologies, markets establishment of its global R&D network and customer needs ahead of its rivals to encompassing first-rate R&D facilities prepare itself for the anticipated worldwide in Korea, China, the USA and the Czech economic recovery. Republic in a bid to increase its fundamental competitiveness from a long-term perspective. 3. SALES CHANNEL DIVERSIFICATION for Dealers and Cu RISK & OPPORTUNITY r Values SALES 14p 22p T he competitiveness of a company’s sales channel, which is its direct contact point with customers, is considered equally as sto m C H A N N E L D I V E R S I F I C AT I 3 . Ou important as its product competitiveness. PERFORMANCE A global company operating around the world, TRENDS STRATEGIC in particular, could suffer inefficiency in the K EY Reporting method 32p ers operation of its sales channel, including its ON dealers, in the wake of corporate restructuring PRINTED MATERIAL or business expansion, among other factors. This report is published in Korean, English and Chinese to Therefore, ensuring the efficient operation of facilitate communication with our global stakeholders. its sales channel is a shortcut to boosting 42p 38p customer satisfaction and enhancing business competitiveness simultaneously. INTERACTIVE PDF This report is also published in an interactive PDF includOUR RESPONSE STRATEGY ing a shortcut feature to related pages in this report or To enhance the competitiveness of its dealers web pages containing related information for effective around the world, Doosan Infracore runs Reporting Purposes communication. You can download the PDF file or check partnership programs customized for the This is Doosan Infracore’s third Integrated Report of its annual and for additional information at Doosan Infracore’s website characteristics of the communities the dealers sustainability management reports. Instead of a simple combination (www.doosaninfracore.com). serve. of the two, however, this report is aimed to provide accurate information on the whole range of the company’s financial and non-finan5. cial performance for the stakeholders and internalize corporate social 4. ENVIRONMENTAL responsibility (CSR) throughout CRISIS all its business activities. Icon used on this report FUNDAMENTALS OF RISK & OPPORTUNITY 4. FU ORGANIZATIONAL BEHAVIOR ND Do Report Backgrounds A RISK & OPPORTUNITY B  y 2030, the global temperature may rise n os M Doosan Infracore began toby publish 0.5~1.5℃andueIntegrated to climateReport change.inMany 2013 in Gr E ee an AL Intangible elements such as corporate culture NT CROSS-REFERENCE WEB VIDEOS y pursuit of genuine communication with its countries across thestakeholders. We did world are making this diverse e and knowledge are considered crucial for to go beyond the level ofefforts to reduce their GHG with emissions, IS ak n, Wa S the enhancement of corporate value and Tim OF effective communication them through Links to pages Links to websites IS Links to videos that CR M Gre a contributor to climate change. The new its previous environmental, sustainability and annual reports. containing related containing additional or facilitate understanding e, OR the improvement of workforce productivity. emission regulations are a particular cost risk TA e k All GA Consequently, global businesses are focusing L t he information or detailed related information of relevant topics 5. T ME hin e NI for businesses. However, such restrictions also contents in the report N N Tim TIO on the development and management of their Reporting Organization constitute an opportunity for those companies I RO ZA ENV EH NA intangible assets by upgrading their modes of To create a comprehensivethat report are wellon Doosanwith equipped environmentally Infracore’s financial R LB operation and building an in-house collective friendlyand and non-financial performance technologies social andand products to succeed environmental values, AV I O intelligence system. Businesses can continue to early in markets. achieve sustainable growth if they enhance and departments related to strategy, sales, IR, communication and so Contact us utilize such intangible assets effectively on the the on have participated in OURplanning RESPONSEfor the Integrated Report. More STRATEGY basis of their unique management methods. than 40 working level teams have Doosan worked Infracore hasontaken report with this measures a foto reduce CSR Team, Communication, Doosan Infracore 10F Doosan Tower Building, cus based upon businessitsperformance GHG emissionsduring theglobal at its present periodsites business and 275 Jangchungdan-ro, Junggu, Seoul (100-730), South Korea OUR RESPONSE STRATEGY into the future. while launching eco-friendly technologies and E-mail: infracore.csr@doosan.com As a powerful Team Doosan, Doosan Infracore products that have undergone remarkable has reformed its way of working and built improvements in terms of fuel efficiency and advanced scientific systems and processes which also meet the stricter requirements of the throughout its operations, with its leaders latest environmental regulations. leading the effort by example. 2014 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report CONTENTS M A N AG EM EN T A NA LY SI S 00 Global Megatrend! Risk or Opportunity? 02 CEO Message 04 Our Strategy 06 Doosan Infracore's Business Model 08 Performance Review 2014 OUR STRATEGIC PERFORMANCE R&D IS OUR FOCUS READING CHANGES, LEADING SUCCESS BUILDING 1-5 OUR DOOSAN 14 THINK 22 YOUR VALUES FOR WAY TIME, GREEN, TOMORROW DEALERS AND ALL MAKE CUSTOMERS THE TIME GREEN 32 38 42 56 O U R C S R PER FO R M A NC E CSR Management System & Management Overview TODAY 66 Enhancement of Customer Value and Quality Competitiveness 72 Employee Value Proposition 78 Establishment of the Integrated EHS System 84 Mutual Growth with Our Suppliers 88 Supporting Development of Local Communities A PPEN D I X 91 Consolidated Financial Statements 95 CSR Facts & Figures 98 Independent Auditors' Report 99 Independent Assurance Report 101 Global Network -8 -1 2014 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report Management Analysis CEO MESSAGE Market Situation and Accomplishments in 2014 of new technologies, the discovery of new business opportuniEnhancement of Financial Stability despite Challenging Business ties, and the securing of future-leading technologies and their Environment In 2014, the North American market recorded commercialization. Third, the company will make great strides continuous growth. However, the Chinese and emerging markets in its customer-centered business management by reflecting the It is my great honor and pleasure to meet the showed sluggish performance which, combined with the convoices of its customers in the whole spectrum of its business stakeholders of Doosan Infracore through this tinuing recession in Europe and the sharp devaluation of the Japmanagement more effectively. To become a lifetime partner for its anese Yen, posed severe difficulties to global businesses. During customers, the company will offer them innovative convergence integrated report. As you are well aware, Doosan the year, companywide annual sales dropped by 0.6% over the in its products and services, including total solutions that enable Infracore has the longest corporate history of previous year to KRW 7,688.6 billion. Nevertheless, the operating them to concentrate on their main areas of business. Lastly, the any machine manufacturing company in Korea. profit increased by 22.6% over 2013 to KRW 453 billion largely company will work harder to make advanced processes and sysAs a global business, it is now pursuing its due to the growth of Bobcat Company, the turnaround of the tems, accelerate its decision-making processes, and enhance its goal of becoming one of the top three machine Engine business unit, and the company’s enhanced cost competcapacity to implement its decisions. The company’s employees manufacturing companies in the world before itiveness as a result of its ongoing drive to lower costs. Doosan will try to work in a more effective and focused manner on the this decade ends. As such, I would like to take Infracore recorded KRW 24 billion in net income in 2014, and basis of open communication and rational thinking, and managethis opportunity to express my deepest gratitude boosted its financial stability by refinancing its Bobcat Company ment decisions will continue to be made according to rules and to all of you for wholeheartedly supporting our acquisition loans, coupled with the early payoff of the Bobcat processes. To accelerate its decision-making speed and enhance efforts to enhance our strong competitive edge Company debt to the tune of US$100 million. its implementation capabilities, the company will continue with while continuing to achieve corporate growth its organizational restructuring to enable it to respond to issues despite difficult market circumstances. With this Successful Launch of New Products and Enhancement of R&D Caimmediately without running up against departmental barriers. integrated report, we would like to look back on pabilities Bobcat Company continued to grow in North America’s our performance in 2014, discuss our plans for compact construction equipment market in 2014, mainly due to a Innovations in the Way of Working and Active Fulfillment of Its the future, and assure you of our commitment sharp rise in the sales of its flagship items and the launch of its CSR Until 2014, the company placed greater emphasis on imto making another leap forward. new M Series of loaders. To meet the latest global emission regproving its ways of working and its corporate culture by incorpoulations and different regional requirements for equipment fearating the Doosan Way into companywide operations. However, tures, Doosan Infracore successfully launched various competitive as of 2015, the company will take one step further by promoting products in 2014, including the new V and C models of construca change in the work unit from individuals to Team Doosan to tion equipment, and diesel engines that meet the requirements boost its employees’ work performance. According to the princiof the Euro 6 regulation currently being driven forward by the ples inherent to Team Doosan, employees will be encouraged to European Commission. The company also completed state-of-theregard themselves as business owners and to pursue their busiart R&D centers in Korea, the USA, and the Czech Republic; and ness goals passionately and tenaciously, while operating as a established a global R&D network linking its existing R&D facilipowerful team to overcome traditional organizational inefficiency ties in China to these new R&D centers. and significantly boost their productivity. Doosan Infracore will faithfully fulfill its social responsibilities as a global corporate Prospects and Plans for 2015 citizen. It will build a virtuous cycle of partnership with suppliers Greater Focus to Be Placed on Improvements in Business Peraround the world through the implementation of practical sharedformance and Strong Competitive Edge The global economy growth programs. It will also engage in corporate community acis expected to continue on its path of slower growth in 2015. tivities more actively to support the development of future genUnder the circumstances, Doosan Infracore intends to accept erations and local communities. Doosan Infracore will spare no this pattern of slower economic growth as the new global ecoefforts to develop eco-friendly technologies and products while nomic order for the time being, and will continue to make funcontinuing to reduce its GHG emissions to protect the environdamental reforms in its management structures so it can create ment. The company will make great efforts to establish a safer differentiated values for its stakeholders in any type of business work environment and promote systematic employee healthcare. environment. To that end, it will spare no efforts to enhance its Doosan Infracore is a highly resilient company. It has continued strong competitive edge under the following strategies. First, to grow for the last 78 years, turning numerous hardships and the company will concentrate on raising its competitiveness in crises into opportunities. The entire staff of Doosan Infracore, technologies and products to the highest level in the world, therefore, will never succumb to any difficulties the company because it firmly believes that innovative technologies and powmay be confronted with. Instead, they will always rise and move erful products are the main driver of corporate growth as well as forward with greater confidence in the future of the company. All a precondition for it. The company will focus its companywide of us at Doosan Infracore will continue to treasure the Winning resources on the enhancement of its R&D capabilities to ensure Spirit that inspires us to persevere until the end and work as a that its employees’ extraordinary passion and innovative ideas powerful Team Doosan by transcending our individual character lead to the development of the best technologies and products differences or our organizational conflicts of interest. We will do in the world. Second, the company will strive to expand and diour utmost to move closer to our vision of becoming a Global versify its buyer base in 2015 in a drive to turn around its sales Top 3 Machine Manufacturing Company by 2020, and to our Dong Youn Sohn and profits, which have stagnated over the last few years. In ultimate goal, the creation of a Proud Global Doosan. With your Chief Executive Officer addition, the company will increase the sales of its most lucratrust in the earnestness of our efforts, we will definitely turn our Doosan Infracore Co., Ltd. tive products such as large excavators, wheel loaders, articulated dream into reality. In the meantime, I look forward to your condump trucks, top-tier machine tools and generator engines, tinued interest in and support for us. while further intensifying its marketing efforts for not only China and the USA, but also for emerging markets including Southeast Asia. Doosan Infracore will also push hard for the development -2 -3 2014 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report Management Analysis OUR STRATEGY Doosan Infracore was founded in 1937 as Chosun Machine Works, Vision 2020 Management Strategy the country’s first large-scale machine manufacturing factory. Doosan Infracore’s vision is to become a Global Top 3 Machine Doosan Infracore’s management strategy is based on 2G (Growth Through continuous growth for the last 78 years, it is now South Manufacturing Company by 2020, which generates the industry’s of People, Growth of Business). 2G creates a virtuous circle beKorea’s top machine manufacturing company equipped with worldhighest sales and profits, faithfully carries out its social responsitween employees and the company: The growth of employees class competitiveness. Its product lineup includes construction bilities, and continues to deliver the best value to its stakeholdworks as a driving force behind corporate growth, which, in turn, equipment, machine tools, engines, a variety of attachments and ers, including shareholders. The company strives to strengthen offers employees more opportunities for personal growth. People utility equipment. The company became a member of the Doosan its global competitiveness through the enhancement of its emare indeed the source of the powerful competitiveness of Doosan family in 2005. Through selection and concentration on ISB ployees’ competence, continuous operational innovations, global Group. The conviction that long-term corporate growth can be M&A, and creation of synergy. made only through the growth of people is the core of Doosan (Infrastructure Support Business), Doosan Infracore has accelerated Infracore’s management strategies and beliefs. its growth. It has further enhanced its global competitiveness through successful M&A with world-class brands like Bobcat Business Areas Construction Equipment Business Strategy Company and Doosan ADT. It is now making great strides as a Since 1977, the Construction Equipment Business Area has supThe business strategy of Doosan Infracore is composed of Topglobal industry leader with world-class competitiveness. plied high-quality medium and large heavy equipment to indusLine Expansion, Business Structure Enhancement and Strong trial sites, making contributions to the development of the global Competitive Edge. Top-Line Expansion is designed to expand infrastructure industry. The Construction Equipment Business and diversify its revenue sources through active advancement Area now possesses prestigious global brands such as Doosan, into emerging markets and enhancement of its high value-added Vision Bobcat Company, Doosan ADT, Doosan Portable Power and Geith. business with the eventual goal of increasing its brand value. 2020 GLOBAL TOP 3 Its current product lineup ranges from compact to medium and Business Structure Enhancement is aimed at securing robust large construction equipment. It has production bases in Korea, foundations for revenue generation and improving cost structure MANUFACTURER North America, China, Europe and South America. It supplies the through continuous operational innovations by each business world’s top-tier products in construction equipment and attacharea, while laying the foundation for sound business operations ments, portable air compressors, lighting systems and portable through the generation of stable revenues based on the compapower equipment. ny’s introduction of a global price management system. Strong Competitive Edge is designed to enhance customer contact Machine Tools points through improved channel competitiveness, enhanced Business Groups Construction Equipment Machine Tools Engine Launched in 1976, the Machine Tools Business Area has made product competitiveness supported by the market-leading quality significant contributions to the development of the global maof the company’s products and services, and upgraded work effiGlobal Top 3 Global Top 3 in Metal Cutting Global Top Tier Engines chine tools industry through its continuous development of ciency through the standardization and systemization of its core technologies and improvements in product quality. Most notably, processes. Doosan Infracore will continue to strive to equip itself Business Areas it has secured the world’s highest level of technological prowess with business capabilities required to continue to grow in any Construction equipment (excavators, wheel loaders, in turning centers and machining centers, the business area’s business environment on the basis of continuous innovations, skid-steer loaders, etc.), Turning centers, Diesel/gas engines flagship machine tools. It is now promoting the development customer-centered perspectives, and advanced scientific systems attachments, machining centers, for buses and trucks, industry, of high-end products, such as high-end, large machine tools, and processes. portable air compressors, multi-tasking turning center power generators and ships lighting systems, multi-tasking machine tools and high-precision machine tools. portable power generators The Machine Tools Business Area is enhancing its marketing Major Contents of Business Strategy efforts for high-end products in the medical, energy, information Top-line Expansion Diversified revenue sources: technology and aviation industries that are expected to achieve Business Strategies enhanced sales in emerging markets Top-line Expansion Enhancement of Business Structure Strong Competitive Edge continuous growth for the foreseeable future. Strengthened strategic synergy with Bobcat Company Enhanced high value business: Strengthened high-end business Management Engine Business Structure Enhanced foundation for revenue generation and improved cost Strategies The Engine Business Area was launched in 1958 with the producEnhancement structure through operational innovations Growth of People 2G Strategy Growth of Business tion of South Korea’s first diesel engine. It has continued to exImplementation of a global price management system pand its business portfolio. Currently, it supplies diesel and gas Strong Competitive Enhanced customer service at customer contact points engines for buses and trucks, power generators and ships, as Edge Upgraded product portfolio and enhanced technology/ well as various industrial engines across the world. On the basis quality competitiveness Management of its full product lineup that meets increasingly stringent worldEnhanced process innovations wide environmental regulations, the Engine Business Area is fast Philosophies More intense efforts to discover new engines of growth emerging as the world’s top-tier engine company. It is striving to DOOSAN WAY ONE DOOSAN / TEAM DOOSAN GLOBAL TALENT enhance its global competitiveness by continuously expanding its global markets through not only the expansion of its customer base for its existing products, but also the pursuit of new business ideas and expansion of its business portfolio. -4 -5 2014 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report Management Analysis DOOSAN INFRACORE'S BUSINESS MODEL Sales (KRW million) 1. Financial Capital 7,688,558 (USD 7,300 million) With the completion of a machine tools plant in Changwon, Korea, and R&D centers in Korea, the USA Internal Drivers and the Czech Republic, tangible assets slightly increased 2020 Global Top 3 Manufacturer over the previous year to reach KRW 2.2826 trillion and 2012 8,158,351 total assets increased by 4.15% to KRW 11.9574 trillion. R i sk & Op p o r t u n i t i e s 2013 7,736,830 2014 7,688,558 2. Manufactured Capital Operating Income (KRW million) 452,994 (USD 430 million) The company’s total production capacity for construction equipment, machine tools and engine business areas in 2014 was 208,952 units; and the average operating rate during the year was 73.44% with production of a total 1. Financial Capital 2. Manufactured Capital of 153,452 units. 2012 362,417 Assets Debt Capital Production Production Production facility (KRW million) (KRW million) (KRW million) 2013 369,500 facilities facility investments depreciation 119,574 86,691 32,883 (KRW million) (KRW million) (KRW million) 2014 452,994 3. Human Capital (4.1% ) (9.2% ) (7.3% ) 22,826 2,148 1,761 Construction Equipment Sales (KRW million) In the survey conducted by Job Planet and Fortune BUSINESS PROCESS Korea, the company ranked 11th (the big business sector) 5,699,020 (USD 5,411 million) among The 50 Best Companies to Work For in Korea 74.2% (ratio to DI’s total sales) among the country’s former and present employees; and it concluded its CBA 2014 negotiations without labor strikes for 4 years in a row. OUTCOME INPUT OUTPUT 3. Human Capital 4. Intellectual Capital O P E N 2012 6,138,730 Total number of Average annual Total training R&D expenses The percentage of Number of intellectual 4. Intellectual Capital employees training hours per expenses (KRW million) R&D to turnover property rights 2013 5,752,278 (person) person(hours) (KRW million) (%) application/registration 14,518 106 128 2,063 4.9% cases(case) 2014 5,699,020 As a result of its R&D efforts, the company made 62 (Korea 5,740) (Average hours in Korea, (Total for Korea, the US and 4,515 improvements in existing products and developed the USA and North America) North America) 83 new products with 12 cases (Korea) and 4 cases Machine Tools Sales (KRW million) (overseas) officially registered as patents including utility and design patents. 1,322,542 (USD 1,256 million) 17.2% (ratio to DI’s total sales) 5. Relationship Capital 5. Relationship Capital 6. Natural Capital 2012 1,464,716 A total of 3,912 Korean employees participated in Local communities – CSR Local communities – CSR Energy Steel Water 2013 1,345,032 corporate community involvement (CCI) activities; and investments investments consumption consumption consumption (KRW million) (KRW million) (TJ) (ton) (ton) the company’s suppliers in Korea achieved 139 cases of 119 56.5 2,990 14,451 861,707 2014 1,322,542 technical development through the company’s technical and financial assistance. Engine Sales (KRW million) 659,999 (USD 627 million) 6. Natural Capital * The figures in parentheses are increase/ reduction rates over the previous year. 8.6% (ratio to DI’s total sales) * The figures in 4-6 above are for the company’s operations in Korea. In Korea, the company emitted GHG below the legally 2012 545,495 permissible level while saving KRW 101 million in External Challenges water service charges through the establishment of a 2013 632,682 wastewater recycling system in Korea. Doosan Infracore’s business model includes a series of processes whereby various resources are invested for the creation of new values through 2014 659,999 a whole range of business activities aimed at achieving an organization’s strategic goals and creating its short-, midand long-term values. It is a unique system whereby an organization can prove its differentiated capabilities to create value. *U SD 1.00 = KRW 1,053.22 (Sales, Operating Income) / KRW 1,099.20 (Total Equity, Total Asset) -6 -7 B U S I N E S S P R O C E S S Gross Profit (₩100M) 17,126 Establishment of R&D Centers in Korea, the USA and the Czech Republic (₩100M) 1,036 Improvements in Process Defect Ratio in Incheon Plant 49.6% O P E N 1 . P RO D UC T D EV E LO PM E N T 2 . P R O C U R E M E NT 3 . MA N U FACTU RI N G 4 . SA LE S & SERVI CE 5. IN-USE Establishment of global R&D facilities including the Creation of mutual growth with its suppliers through Launch of TMS 1.5 system for developed markets; Standardization of after-sales service and Reflection of VOC (Voice of the Customer) in the Global R&D Center in Korea, the Acceleration Center the Shared Growth Team which is directly supervised planning to launch TMS 2.0 system through implementation of service education; launch new product planning stage to boost customer in the USA, and the Innovation Center in the Czech by the CEO; a whistle-blowing system which internally technology in 2015. of Eco Corner, where customers can carry out convenience and product efficiency. Republic. includes a supplier hotline; and implementation of repair and maintenance work in Korea; and surveys on supplier satisfaction, etc. To minimize environmental impact, a wastewater enhancement of after-sales service standards in Extension of the warranty period for 7 core parts of Creation of the Quality Innovation Division at the recycling system was established in the Incheon China so that after-sales service is completed construction equipment to 3 years/6,000 hours in head office in Korea for quality innovation; and Promotion of the Parts Quality Innovation 330 Plant. Bobcat Company established a GHG within 7 days of the receipt of a request. China. establishment of a global quality management Campaign to improve the quality of suppliers’ monitoring system and a resource conservation system to reflect overseas customer voices in the parts; consequently, the Incheon Plant’s suppliers campaign in the U.S. Launch of China-DIMF 2014; participation in major Attachment of product safety labels showing the prompt development of new products. improved 49.6% in their process defects. trade shows around the world; and invitations to degree of potential safety hazard; and public notice Establishment of a joint venture with PSI dealers for opportunities to publicize corporate of preventive measures against hazards. Improvements in R&D efficiency through the Following the global expansion of the company’s corporation to meet emission regulations and visions and products while strengthening bonds establishment of the NPD 4.0 process and the supplier CSR support system, Bobcat Company develop gas engines using diverse fuel sources. with dealers. Enhancement of personal information security; implementation of companywide global standards. added CSR as a supplier diagnostic index, and CSR implementation of information security education for was included in the comprehensive supplier rating Launch of used construction equipment auctions employees, including related supplier employees; and evaluation system in Korea and China. in China; and start of product technical schools in and public notice of privacy policy implemented on Indonesia and Myanmar. the Bobcat Company online store. 2014 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report Management Analysis PERFORMANCE REVIEW 2014 FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE Sales Records (Unit: KRW million) 2014 2013 2012 Performance by Business Area (Unit: KRW million) in product performance, quality, channel, parts and services 2014 2013 2012 so it can achieve a stable level of sales growth year after Doosan Infracore’s top priority for 2014 was the enhanceSales 7,688,558 7,736,830 8,158,351 Construction Equipment year while striving to make improvements in its cost strucment of its strong competitive edge. The company enhanced Cost of sales 5,975,986 6,089,338 6,478,130 Sales 5,699,020 5,752,278 6,138,730 ture and maximize its profit margin. its foundation for another leap forward by expanding its Gross profit 1,712,572 1,647,492 1,680,221 Operating profit 254,252 231,287 230,611 R&D facilities at home and abroad and strengthening the Selling and administrative expenses 1,259,578 1,277,992 1,317,804 Machine Tools 3-2. Machine Tools : TThe Machine Tools Business Area competitiveness of its channel. It also consolidated its marOperating income (loss) 452,994 369,500 362,417 Sales 1,322,542 1,345,032 1,464,716 maintained stability in its sales records in 2014 due to the ket dominance through the launch of new products incorpoOther non-operating income 41,492 28,786 35,902 Operating profit 157,943 145,895 145,116 steadiness of market demand in Korea, China and the USA. rating the latest trends. It strongly promoted the internalizaOther non-operating expenses 105,834 69,557 82,008 Engine The annual sales for the year was KRW 1.3225 trillion, altion of Doosan Way for employees’ daily work performance. Net profit (loss) before income tax benefit (75,217) (56,964) (22,160) Sales 659,999 632,682 545,495 most identical to that of 2013. Operating profits, however, It also continued to make lead investments in green innovaIncome tax expense (99,189) 43,986 (415,503) Operating profit 45,734 (7,465) (26,080) increased to KRW 157.9 billion. The Machine Tools business tion, among others, for sustainable growth. Despite a diffiactively engaged in the promotion of its lineup including Net income (loss) 23,972 (100,950) 393,343 cult business environment, the company managed to record new high-end products in a variety of large tradeshows such increases in its operating profits and net income in 2014 3-1. Construction Equipment : Sales declined slightly to KRW as SIMTOS 2014 in Korea, IMTS 2014 in the USA, and Chithrough bold investments and improvements in a variety of Financial Status (Unit: KRW million) 2014 2013 2012 5.699 trillion in 2014. However, given the foreign exchange na-DIMF 2014. For the first time in the Korean machine tools READING fields, attesting to its great potential for growth. effect, the actual turnover was almost identical to the 2013 industry, it won a major award at the Red Dot Design Awards CHANGES, Current assets 4,019,500 3,706,206 3,861,995 figure. Operating profits increased in 2014. The medium and LEADING 2014, one of the world’s top three design awards for two 1. Sales Records Non-current assets 7,937,927 7,775,288 7,682,995 large-sized construction equipment business continues to SUCCESS straight years enhancing its posture as a global leader in Despite a global economic stagnation in 2014, 22p the machine tools industry. For its key markets, which are Total assets 11,957,427 11,481,494 11,544,990 contribute to increases in the company’s market share in the company recorded KRW 7.6886 trillion in sales similar Current liabilities 3,294,510 2,753,668 3,539,078 North America, Europe and emerging markets mainly on the based on the price competitiveness of its base products, the to the previous year's figure – largely due to the contribubasis of its enhanced channel and sales competitiveness company focused on the launch of products with price comNon-current liabilities 5,374,629 5,178,805 4,997,113 tions of DIBH (Doosan Infracore Bobcat Holdings). Its operatdespite sluggish overall market conditions. In China, as the petitiveness and performance. For high value-added indusTotal liabilities 8,669,139 7,932,473 8,536,191 ing income rose by 22.6% due to the continuous growth of market slowdown continued in 2014, the Construction Equiptries, the company accelerated the development of high-end Total equity 3,288,288 3,549,021 3,008,799 DIBH, Engine Business Area’s turnaround and the company’s ment business upgraded its dealer network and enhanced machine tools including large, multi-tasking, high-precision continuous efforts to enhance its price competitiveness, recustomer credit management in the country in a bid to machine tools. It plans to enhance its marketing activities sulting in KRW 24 billion in net income. strengthen its fundamental competitiveness in preparation in industries with high growth potential such as medicine, for market recovery. It boosted its market share in 2014. energy, IT and aviation in an effort to secure a more stable 2014 AUDIT REPORT 2. Financial Status In the area of compact construction equipment, including revenue source. www.doosaninfracore.com/en/ir/audit.do As of the end of 2014, total assets slightly Bobcat Company, it maintained its market leadership in SSL increased by KRW 475.9 billion to KRW 11.9574 trillion com(Skid-Steer Loaders) and recorded a stable sales record in 3-3. Engine : The annual total sales jumped by more than pared to 2013, largely due to increases in inventory. The CTL (Compact Track Loaders) and MEX (Mini Excavators). 25% in 2014 and exceeded the KRW 1 trillion mark for the debt ratio also increased compared to 2013 due to the effect Doosan Infracore will continue to boost its competitiveness first time with the proportion of in-house sales rising from of foreign exchange and increased strategic inventory. Total 5% in 2013 to 8.6% in 2014. The major reasons for the sales equity was reduced by KRW 260.7 billion compared to 2013 increase include the full-fledged supply of gas engines to the to KRW 3.2883 trillion in 2014. North American market, where the demand for gas engines Sales Operating Income Construction Equipment Sales Machine Tools Sales Engine Sales skyrocketed due to the shale gas development boom and 3. Business Performance by Business Group (Unit: KRW million) (Unit: KRW million) (Unit: KRW million) (Unit: KRW million) (Unit: KRW million) the expanded application of compact G2 engines in Bobcat In 2014, Doosan Infracore launched R&D centers Company’s construction equipment, which meet the latest in Korea, the USA and the Czech Republic as part of its globemissions regulations. Profitability rose more than expected al R&D network. It successfully released various new proddue to the company’s continued intensive efforts to cut down ucts like V model and C model, on-highway diesel engines on costs and enhance production capabilities. The Engine 8,158,351 6,138,730 1,464,716 452,994 659,999 632,682 to meet EURO 6 emissions regulations to fulfill increasingly business is working hard to make great strides in the devel7,736,830 7,688,558 5,752,278 5,699,020 1,345,032 1,322,542 stringent global emission regulations and to satisfy the charopment of new engines that meet the latest emissions stan362,417 369,500 545,495 acteristics of different market demand patterns in various dards together with the expansion of its engine lineup based regions. The Machine Tools Business Area further enhanced on its midto long-term product development roadmap. It is its global competitiveness in 2014 by winning the Red Dot also promoting improvements in its work environment and Design Awards 2014 for two years in a row and built a plant product quality through continuous investments in producdevoted to the production of large machine tools. tion facilities. The Engine business will continue to enlarge its customer base for its existing products while expanding the horizon of its global markets through the development of 2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 new business. -8 -9 2014 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report Management Analysis 4. Cash Flow & Solvency Cash Flow (Unit: KRW million) 2014 2013 2012 6. Outlook 2015 6-2 Machine Tools: Although the market for machine tools Consolidation-based cash flow from operation activConstruction Equipment, Machine Tools and Engine – the key in 2015 remains unclear, the company aims to achieve faster ities in 2014 recorded KRW 231.3 billion. Net cash outflow Cash flows from operating activities 231,296 481,935 (450,365) business areas of Doosan Infracore – are deeply affected by IR MATERIALS growth than its competition through enhancing regional prooccurred in the amount of KRW 428.5 billion in the area of Cash flows from investing activities (428,522) (595,347) (527,064) changes in the demand of upstream industries like construcwww.doosaninfracore. motions and securing large projects. The company will also cash flow from investing activities, whereas net cash inflow tion and automotive. Therefore, the demand for the compacom/kr/ir/ consolidate its standing as a premium brand that leads the Cash flows from financing activities 281,367 (80,201) 811,065 presentation.do due to financial activities, including the refinancing of BobCash and cash equivalents, 287,838 462,494 624,032 ny’s products are deeply connected to such factors as the way in quality and customer service through the 10th DIMF cat Company–related debts, occurred in the amount of KRW beginning of the year overall economic situation in Korea, the government’s social 2015, the company’s own trade show. Also, through a num281.4 billion. The cash and cashable assets increased by Cash and cash equivalents, 362,953 287,838 462,494 overhead investment policies and international economic ber of international trade shows including Europe EMO 2015, KRW 75.1 billion to around KRW 363 billion as of the end of end of the year trends. Furthermore, currency fluctuations directly impact the the company will continue to promote its new products and 2014, including the relevant foreign exchange effect. In May company’s competitiveness overseas as the company’s sales boost its brand awareness. It will work hard to continue 2014, the completed the refinancing of Bobcat Company-reFinancial Strength 2014 2013 2012 records are vulnerable to fluctuations of the US dollar – the launching best-selling models while reducing technological lated debts in the amount of US$1.7 Billion, for which the USA being the company’s largest market – the European gaps with global market leaders. Furthermore, it will further OUR VALUES maturity began in 2015. For US$1.3 billion, the subsidiaries Current ratio 122% 135% 109% Euro, and the Japanese Yen, where the largest number of the streamline its global dealership management system and FOR DEALERS succeeded in obtaining long-term loans from banks and inDebt ratio 236.64% 223.51% 406.84% company’s rivals are based. It is anticipated that the current AND CUSTOMERS enhance its customer support capabilities while implementstitutional investors on the basis of their own credit rating Liability dependency ratio 50.89% 49.16% 53.35% protracted economic slowdown will soon enter an adjust32p ing its three-year Manufacturing Competitiveness Innovation without any additional credit enhancement from Doosan ment period that will last until the end of 2015 and a slow Program. Infracore. It because of the financial institutions and institubut steady economic growth period that will start at the tional investors in the brand and future prospects of Bobcat beginning of 2016. Having accepted a slow growth pattern 6-3 Engine: The Chinese diesel engine market, which is the Company and its affiliated groups’ business. In addition, the Current Ratio Gross Profit as a new global economic order, Doosan Infracore is striving world’s largest, continues to grow. China has the largest refinancing was made at an annual interest rate of LIBOR (Unit: KRW million) (Unit: KRW million) to boost its fundamental competitiveness through which it demand for gas engine generators in line with the rising plus 3.5%, which is lower than the market interest rate (LIBOR will bring differentiated values to the company, with the year demand for compact commercial vehicles and pickup trucks. plus 3.65%) for a seven-year loan (maturity: 2021), enabling 2015 set as the final year of its Fix & Build initiative. The gas engine generator market continues to grow in North the company to establish a stable financial structure, thanks READING America and Europe, in keeping with the expansion of shale CHANGES, 1,712,572 to the reduced burdens of debt repayment and interest 6-1 Construction Equipment: In 2015, the US construction gas and biogas markets. Thus, the company decided to 1,680,221 135 1,647,492 122 LEADING payment. Following the achievement of continuous operat109 equipment market is expected to recover from the recesSUCCESS establish a joint venture (Doosan PSI) with PSI, a market ing profits, the company repaid US$100 million earlier than sion; the Chinese market will not recover significantly until 22p leader in North America in the area of gas engines. It is scheduled in December 2014. year’s end and quantity adjustment due to a supply glut is planning to expand its marketing of the joint venture’s gas anticipated to continue. Emerging markets are most likely to engines to Korea, Europe and emerging markets as well as 5. Tax Strategy suffer delayed economic recovery largely because of sluggish in North America. The Engine business expects to reach the Doosan Infracore implements its tax policies through investments by China and weak raw materials prices. OverKRW 2 trillion annual sales mark in 2019, largely due to the tax management and by carrying out appropriate tax activiall, 2015 is anticipated to see a slower growth than in 2014. full-fledged marketing of G2 engines and growth in the area ties through ETR (Effective Tax Rate) and risk management. The company is planning to make changes in its business of power generators following the establishment of the joint 2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 As is clearly indicated in its corporate financial statements structure so it can diversify revenue sources and maximize venture. It is planning to advance into the compact commerand footnotes, the company implements accurate accounting profitability even in worsening business environments. Special vehicle market and the large power generator market procedures and practices transparent disclosure concerning cifically, it will strive to increase the sales of medium to large following its completion of the development of compact and matters relating to corporate tax issues. Through tax manexcavators and wheel loaders in China and other emerging large engines. Current Assets Cash and Cash Equivalents, End of the Year agement, the company carries out its Tax Planning function, markets while actively promoting the expansion of its com(Unit: KRW million) (Unit: KRW million) which reviews its transaction structures and prevents double pact construction equipment business. In North America, taxation, and its Transfer Pricing function that aligns the it will maintain its leadership in the compact construction company’s tax policies and overseas business strategies to equipment business, while boosting its standing in medium 4,019,500 462,494 3,861,995 3,706,206 the “arm’s length” principle. Also, through tax accounting, to large construction equipment. In addition, in preparation the company processes corporate tax-related accounts acfor the recovery of the construction equipment market, the 362,953 cording to the DFAS (Doosan Financial Accounting Standards) company will do its utmost to strengthen its fundamental and local generally accepted accounting principles, and disbusiness competitiveness in the areas of products, technolo287,838 closes the results in its financial statements and their footgies, quality, channels and services. notes. Doosan Infracore faithfully fulfills all of its obligations with regard to declarations, reports, payments and cooperation on tax liability as required by tax laws and the relevant regulations through Tax Compliance and Tax Audit Defense. 2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 It also responds reasonably to the requirements of the tax authorities, and complies with all national and local tax principles in the countries where it operates its businesses. 10 11 2014 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report Management Analysis 7. Global Performance & Strategy 7-2. China: China may make slight improvements in its exSOCIAL PERFORMANCE 4. Local Communities Doosan Infracore is a global enterprise equipped not port performance thanks to the recovery of consumption in Doosan Infracore strives to pay back the recognition only with 19 production facilities, 38 sales subsidiaries and GLOBAL NETWORK the USA. However, its real-estate market, which has a high 1. Customers of its local communities and grow with them as a responsible www.doosaninfracore. numerous branch offices and 9 R&D facilities worldwide, but degree of impact on its GDP, continues to show sluggish perDoosan Infracore strives to come closer to its custommember of the communities. 2014 was significant to Doosan com/kr/network also with a huge sales network consisting of more than 1,200 formance. The overall economic growth is expected to slow ers through better quality and more convenient services by OUR CSR Infracore, in that it promoted corporate community involvement PERFORMANCES dealers around the world. Also, the company’s more than down. The country’s continued investments in infrastructure always thinking from their perspective and actually reflecting (CCI) designed to facilitate the growth of local communities 54 p 14,500 employees are working hard to deliver to worldwide from a midto long-term perspective are enhancing its their opinions in the new product development planning around all of its global business sites during Global Volunteer customers the world’s very best products and services. For growth potential in the construction equipment sector, the stage. In China, the company extended the warranty period Week and the Doosan Day of Community Service. The company more efficient global business management, the company supply glut adjustment is expected to be completed by the for key parts. Through customer-centered quality improvewill continue to promote its global CCI initiatives on the basis has divided its operations in the world into four areas, such end of 2015, and the pre-2013 growth pattern should recovments, the company has continuously made improvements in of its worldwide CCI guidelines while implementing CCI activias North America and Oceania; Europe, the Middle East and er gradually. Doosan Infracore will bring new energy to the its customer complaint ratio. To further boost customer satisties that are of practical assistance to local communities. It will Africa; China; and Asia-Pacific and Latin America. It devises Chinese construction equipment market through the launch faction in Korea and China, the company continues to moncontinue to expand opportunities for its employees to particiand implements business strategies for each area depending of products customized to local markets and by advancing itor customer satisfaction through its Happy Call system. To pate in various CCI activities. on market and customer situations. into the country’s used construction equipment market. The enhance customer satisfaction in the USA, Bobcat Company is Chinese machine tools sector shows continuous growth in developing its customer service training programs. Also, fully ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE 7-1. North America & Oceania: The economy of North demand. The company is enhancing its marketing efforts in understanding the importance of personal information, Bobcat In 2014, Doosan Infracore reduced its emissions by America is expected to recover largely due to successful China, particularly through China DIMF. Company has upgraded its information security management an additional 18% below the level allowed by the Korean household debt adjustments and rising real income of the standards. government as a result of the company’s preemptive efforts population. Following the shale gas development boom, the 7-3. Europe, the Middle East & Africa: Europe is most likely to respond to climate change. It laid the foundation for GHG energy industry has a positive outlook, while the manufacto continue to show a slow growth pattern in 2015 following 2. Employees emission control in its various worksites in China and the USA. turing industry is showing signs of recovery. The construction a similar pattern in 2014. The weakening Euro remains a sigDoosan Infracore focused on employees internalizing the DooMoreover, in preparation for the emissions trading scheme that equipment sector is anticipated to grow in 2015 as it did in nificant factor. With respect to the Construction Equipment san Way throughout 2014. It is in the process of building its the Korean government will begin to implement in 2015, the THINK 2014, mainly as a result of Bobcat Company’s contributions. Business, the UK and Germany, in particular, are expected to own human resources training system, including the Functional GREEN, company measures its GHG emissions on a monthly basis and The company is planning to upgrade the product mix of its show positive changes in market conditions. The machine Competency (FC) system to cultivate a caring group of powerful MAKE promotes natural light and energy efficiency at the design stage compact equipment and focus on the sales increase of large people. It is also paying keen attention to creating an organizaGREEN tools market is expected to face increasing demand for of new office buildings and manufacturing plants to minimize 42 p equipment. For the Machine Tools Business Area, the compamachine tools in such areas as alternative energy, large mational culture that cherishes communication and cooperation so its GHG emissions. As a result of such efforts, the company ny will further enhance its marketing efforts in its key marchines and medical instruments. As for the Engine Business, all Doosan people will continue creating and having successful received an A class energy efficiency certificate and attained an ket, North America, in line with increasing automobile prothe demand for eco-friendly engines and large power output experiences. The company also strives to offer fair and diverse excellence-class green certification for the Global R&D Center duction and the continuous growth of the renewable energy engines is growing in line with the implementation of EURO opportunities. It promotes balance between work and family that it launched in 2014 in Korea. The Acceleration Center in industry. For the Engine business, the company will reinforce 6, which went into effect in September 2014. The company as a family-friendly workplace. In recognition of such efforts, the USA has obtained LEED certification, the most widely used its leadership in gas engines that meet the latest emission plans to enhance its channel competitiveness for its busiDoosan Infracore ranked 11th among big businesses in Korea green building rating system. Doosan Infracore also strives to regulations, which it has secured through the establishment ness groups and will continue seeking diversification of its with 71.27 points on a 100 point scale in a survey designed minimize its impact on the environment by continually boosting of a joint venture with a global market leader in the area. customer base. to select The 50 Best Companies to Work For in 2014 jointly its resource utilization efficiency and tightening its policies on conducted by Fortune Korea and Job Planet. pollutant management. 7-4. Asia Pacific & Emerging Market: Emerging markets 19 Production Facilities such as Asia-Pacific, Latin America and the CIS are suffering a lackluster growth pattern due to sluggish investments by 3. Suppliers Doosan Infracore runs a variety of support programs, including China and low raw material prices. It is estimated that the technical development, quality improvement, and financial asemerging markets will start to grow at an average annual sistance to enhance its suppliers’ competitiveness. Through the 38 Sales Subsidiaries and Branches growth rate of 6% beginning in 2015. The recovery of the Doosan Supplier Excellence Program (DSEP), the supplier culticonstruction equipment market is expected to be delayed. Still, the company will increase its market share in the revation system of Doosan Group, Doosan Infracore is implementing a long-term project designed to help grow 44 suppliers into 43% Initial Quality Complaint Ratio 9 gions mainly through increased domestic sales and expandhidden champions by 2018 in Korea. To promote suppliers’ CSR 22% R&D Facilities ed emerging market coverage. It will also strive to boost the involvement, the company has defined sustainability as one of company’s brand through the launch of products customized its comprehensive supplier evaluation items. The company fully Average Training Expenses per Person (Office) for emerging markets and the running of product technology supports their efforts to achieve sustainability. In 2014, Doosan 1,200 training school. Infracore was awarded the President’s Prize as an excellent 252% Dealers benefit sharing company. Doosan Infracore China Investment Technical Development Support for Suppliers (DICI), one of Doosan Infracore’s Chinese subsidiaries, won the 14,518 Exemplary Company Prize in shared growth at the 1st Shanghai 36,659 tCo2e Employees CSR Awards in recognition of the company’s contributions in Reduction below the area. Allowed GHG Emissions 12 13 2014 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report Our Strategic Performance R&D IS OUR FOCUS Strong competitive edge through bold R&D investments To grow into a Global Top 3 Machine Manufacturing Company by 2020, Doosan Infracore has striven to boost its fundamental competitiveness that will enable it to produce the world’s best products. Doosan Infracore firmly believes that the key to its strong competitive edge is upgrading its R&D capabilities, which are directly related to the development of new technologies and the improvement of product quality. That’s why the company has continued to make bold investments in R&D even during difficult business situations. In 2014, the company succeeded in completing a global R&D belt connecting its R&D facilities in Korea, the USA and the Czech Republic, among others, making a significant step forward to realize its vision of becoming one of the best global enterprises just a few years from now. 14 15 2014 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report Our Strategic Performance R&D CAPABILITIES WITH SPEED AND EFFICIENCY To provide its customers and markets with new products that ESTABLISHING A GLOBAL R&D HUB will be praised as the world’s best, Doosan Infracore has Incheon Global R&D Center, a new global R&D hub continued to make aggressive investments in R&D. According Following two years of meticulous work, the Global R&D to its plan, the company launched a Corporate R&D Division, Center in Incheon, Korea, was completed in July 2014. It is an integrated R&D organization, in 2012. The following year, now the center of the company’s R&D activities. With a total it adopted advanced R&D processes to create more efficient budget of KRW 56 billion, the company built a 12-story and R&D activities and promote a creative organizational culture 2-basement floor building with a total floor area of more than companywide. As the second stage of the plan, the company 26,000m2. More than 1,000 engineers who used to work in built a global R&D hub in Korea in 2014 to further enhance three locations – Incheon, Suji and Songdo – are now under its competitiveness in R&D. In addition to the completion one roof. The center focuses on research on midto largeof its Global R&D Center in Korea, the company opened the sized construction equipment and engines. The center is Acceleration Center in the USA and the Innovation Center in expected to create significant synergistic effects because a the Czech Republic during the year. With the Wheel Loader diverse group of people involved in R&D, such as technology R&D Center in China, it completed a Global R&D Belt in 2014. strategies, designs, certification and assessment, are now That was significant progress for the company in terms of the working side by side at one location. The Incheon Global R&D enhancement of its R&D competency required to secure origiCenter is equipped with not only state-of-the-art research nal technologies, develop new products and improve product facilities and office space, but also town hall meeting halls quality. Doosan Infracore is now equipped with strong R&D and idea rooms for researchers to communicate with one ancapabilities supported by the company’s advanced R&D orgaother and develop creative ideas more effectively. In addition, nizations, a creative culture and cutting-edge R&D infrastrucit features a patent corridor displaying the company’s major ture. patents. Its R&D Academy classrooms and coaching rooms are fully equipped for lifelong education of researchers as the company’s training hub for R&D specialists. ENHANCEMENT OF R&D CAPABILITIES 64p Doosan Infracore strives to enhance its fundamental technological prowess by Korea Incheon Global R&D Center enhancing its R&D capabilities through the construction of cutting edge infrastructure and the promotion of a Global creative corporate culture. R&D Belt Korea Yongin R&D Center China Yantai Wheel Loader R&D Center Construction Equipment R&D Center GLOBAL R&D Czech Dobris Innovation Center CENTER IN Norway Elnesvagen Construction Equipment R&D Office NUMBERS 1 47 2 1,000 USA Bismarck Acceleration Center China Shanghai Machine Tools R&D Center “Be the No.1,” the slogan Number of engineers with Number of external certificates Maximum number of of Corporate R&D Division doctoral degrees obtained by the center engineers that the center can headquartered at (‘A’ class energy efficiency accommodate Korea Changwon Machine Tools R&D Center Global R&D Center certificate and excellence-class green certification) : R&D CENTERS COMPLETED IN 2014 16 17 2014 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report Our Strategic Performance New excavators armed with cutting edge technology: With New technology that has improved operators’ safety and its cutting-edge processes, the Global R&D Center engages convenience: Doosan Infracore has worked hard to develop in R&D for the development of the world’s top-tier construcnew technologies that make significant improvements in the tion equipment. As the speed of technological development safety and convenience of operators who use our equipment. picks up, shortening the period from R&D to production has The result of a VOC analysis raised the issue of the danger become even more important. Thus, for example, the center involved with blind spots for excavator operators. To solve the applied advanced processes including Virtual Product Develproblem, the company has introduced the innovative AVM (Allopment to its development of an excavator model customized Around View Monitoring) system for its 5-ton excavator. The for Tier 4 Final Emission Regulations. Numerous issues could AVM provides operators with images taken by five cameras be solved in a completely digital environment. The compaand collected by a computer in real-time. Excavators can seny developed product models that meet the latest emission cure a full, 360-degree field of vision through the technology. control standards to complete a full lineup of excavators with Doosan Infracore also has a number of original technologies strong price competitiveness. and diverse patents on improvements in convenience features such as VBO (Virtual Bleed-off ) that optimizes engine control Specifically, the company’s V model excavators tailored to through an electronic hydraulic system; the automatic engine meet the Tier 4 Final Emission Regulations has improved fuel shut-off feature that switches off the engine after a certain peefficiency by 6-16% compared to the previous midto largeriod of work suspension; and the application of EM Bush that sized excavators. The C model excavators have been develminimizes friction and noise through surface engineering, the oped particularly for the Chinese market. It fulfills the Tier 3 latest lubrication technology. emission regulations ahead of the country’s implementation of the standards. It is designed to withstand extremely harsh ACCELERATING R&D working conditions. The model is being highly praised, not Bismarck Acceleration Center speeds up R&D markedly only in China, but in other developing markets as well. The In August 2014, Doosan Infracore launched the Acceleration C model has improved fuel efficiency and performance by Center, an R&D center specializing in the development of around 15% and 16%, respectively, compared to competitors’ compact construction equipment, at the Bobcat Company excavators. It is also equipped with various convenience facility in Bismarck, North Dakota, USA. It is fully equipped features including a 7-inch LCD display panel designed for with all the systems required for the development of new advanced markets, providing operators with convenience improducts such as cutting-edge instruments, facilities, and provements that they highly appreciate. Its front, including the software. Therefore, the center is capable of carrying out the boom, arm and undercarriage parts, are designed to meet Chiwhole range of product development activities including idea nese customers’ actual operating conditions. Its major parts, generation, computer simulation, pilot manufacturing and including hydraulics, were originally developed for advanced product tests within the shortest period possible with all of markets. As a whole, the model has increased durability up to the resources made available at hand. Furthermore, the center 63% compared to previous models. has applied ergonomic systems to all its facilities in an effort to maximize research efficiency. Meeting rooms are designed to accommodate equipment so participants can carry out tests ALL and reach decisions more easily and quickly. A large indoor 1 2 test ground is also secured to test pilot products without concerns bad weather. The office space no longer has assigned AROUND VIEW seating for employees as they now use moveable office equipment. This way, they can take advantage of the space much An indoor testing facility enables around-the-clock more efficiently and collaborate freely. To help minimize noise MONITORING product tests regardless of outside weather conditions, boosting product development speed and efficiency. distractions, the center broadcasts white noise through an advanced duct system. 5 cameras are installed to prevent any blind spot from the cabin. 1 1 360-degree vision is provided in real time through computerized ONE-STOP R&D images from 5 cameras. 1 2 1 PROCESS Ideation Prototype Computer Simulation Test 18 19 2014 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report Our Strategic Performance Dobris Innovation Center committed to developing products Korea Global R&D center tailored to regional markets Korea Floor area In September 2014, Doosan Infracore inaugurated its Innovation Center at the Bobcat Company plant in Dobris, Czech USA 26,000 Republic. It is the company’s hub for the development of EuCzech (Unit: ㎡) NEW ropean-style compact construction equipment. Equipped with a large prototype testing area and abundant office space, the center engages in the planning and testing of products that R&D reflect European regulations and regional customers’ needs. Specifically, the center conducts R&D activities to develop USA Acceleration center products tailored to the markets in Europe and its neighboring Floor area 18,000 CENTERS regions. It is fully equipped with various functions required to undertake a whole range of tasks from market surveys to product launches including design, product engineering, (Unit: ㎡) purchase, manufacturing technologies, quality, finance and product marketing. Furthermore, the center has a lab that can guarantee the performance, reliability and durability of products produced in the Dobris factory, as well as an in-house Czech Innovation center noise laboratory, climate control system, and both static and Floor area dynamic testing facilities. Also, the center is equipped with the latest manufacturing facilities that can apply new prototyping methods quickly and develop the newest manufacturing 9,300 (Unit: ㎡) processes efficiently. The Innovation Center runs a training institute that offers more than 200 training sessions on the full lineup of construction equipment on an annual basis, offering research experts opportunities to meet customers and dealers in person. R&D Road Map STEP 1. STEP 2. STEP 3. Goal Produce R&D outcomes Steps for the enhancement of the fundamental competitiveness of Doosan Infracore Lay the foundation Integrate R&D organizations Build infrastructure Construct regional R&D centers Global Top 3 Machine Manufacturer by 2020 Launch the world’s best products A new challenge toward the world’s best products meetings. Launched in 2013, the CEO and the R&D head of Doosan Infracore will enhance The completion of a global R&D belt linking the Global R&D each research facility attend a teleconference meeting. The its fundamental product Center in Korea with the Acceleration Center in the USA and agenda for the teleconference includes not only product roadcompetitiveness and lead the the Innovation Center in the Czech Republic is part of Doosan maps (PRM), but also improvements in product convenience market by launching the world’s Infracore’s strategy to prepare for its future through bold infeatures and joint research on future-oriented technologies best products ahead of the vestments in its R&D capabilities. The Global R&D Center is like artificial intelligence. competition through its global R&D focused on the development of construction equipment and belt connecting its R&D facilities engines, while the Acceleration Center specializes in R&D for Through its global R&D facilities, Doosan Infracore will conin Korea, China, the USA and the Czech Republic. compact construction equipment. Most notably, the Innovatinue to step up its R&D investments in the development of tion Center has expanded the company’s efforts to develop advanced technologies in such areas as innovation in fuel compact construction equipment in the USA to Europe and is efficiency and integration of ICTs into its products as well as planning to develop new products tailored to the needs of not in the commercialization of the technologies. The company just the continent but also the Middle East and Africa. will continue to make investments in upgrading its R&D processes and infrastructure. It will also continue to be active Through the global R&D hub connecting the R&D facilities in in hiring and fostering outstanding research experts. Based Korea, China, the USA and the Czech Republic, Doosan Infraon such efforts, Doosan Infracore will launch the world’s very core expects to overcome difficult business environments and best products and realize its vision of becoming a Global Top lay the foundation for sustainable growth through shortened 3 machine manufacturer by 2020. product life cycles and improved research efficiency. For close cooperation among its global R&D facilities, the chief executive regularly holds Global Executive Leadership Team (GELT) 20 21 2014 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report Our Strategic Performance INNOVATION, READING CHANGES, LEADING SUCCESSES CUSTOMIZED, BIG DATA, SMART, Read trends to lead changes The world is changing rapidly. DATA INTEGRATION, It is becoming more diverse and open to new ideas, following developments in information technology, in particular. While information and new technologies drive simultaneous changes around the world, new issues such as environmental degradation and resource depletion emerge as huge challenges for FUEL EFFICIENCY, humankind. However, change always includes both risks and opportunities. Doosan Infracore will continue to read trends shaping the future and lead boldly during times of change resulting in difficult business situations. ALTERNATIVE ENERGY SUPERFINE 22 23 2014 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report Our Strategic Performance E NE CH INE GIN TIO MA EN UC TR NS S OL CO TO T EN TECHNOLOGY IPM QU CHANGE MARKET CHANGE NEEDS CHANGE Accelerating engine downsizing in the automotive industry Increasing use of new fuel resources to solve the issues of READING Boost efficiency and convenience CHANGE through convergence of IT and industries for higher fuel efficiency resource depletion and environmental degradation Rapidly developing information and communications As the world experienced an era of skyrocketing oil prices Petroleum has long been favored due to its high thermal CHANGES, technologies (ICT) has not only resulted in revolutions between the second half of the 2000s and the beginning efficiency, and it is the most widely used transportation in information processing, but also provided humankind of the 2010s, fuel efficiency emerged as the most imfuel. However, it has become a serious source of environwith opportunities to create new values. Recent advancportant factor in consumers’ vehicle purchase decisions. mental deterioration in addition to its inherent issue of es in computer hardware and software are leading to Moreover, environmental regulations, including emissions being a limited resource. Thus, the pursuit of alternative LEADING new services and solutions based on the link between products and services and products and users in a scale as never seen before. Telematics has developed the concontrol, have continued to get stricter around the world. The automotive industry is thus faced with huge challenges related to high mileage and low emissions. With fuel sources is being promoted not only by governments, but also by enterprises and research institutions, which also seek to find ways to use limited fuel resources more vergence of ICT and the automotive industry, leading to respect to higher fuel efficiency, the simple solution is efficiently and in a more environmentally friendly way. As SUCCESSES the new concept of vehicle telematics. For one, drivers can now tap into diverse information through telematic devices installed in vehicles. Vehicle telematics are being having engines generate more power with less fuel, thus reducing exhaust emissions. In fact, that is the direction the latest automotive engine technological development part of such moves, notable progress is being made in the development of new and renewable energy sources like solar power, nuclear power, wind power and shale gas. applied to more construction equipment, too. is heading as engine downsizing is a way to achieve two The engine industry, in particular, pays keen attention to things in a single action. the potential of natural gas, which has long been regarded as a byproduct of petroleum and resource extraction, as an alternative to oil and is accelerating its efforts to develop new natural gas technologies and products. Doosan TMS offers customer-centered services through IT For the first time in Korea, launch of the FM 200/5AX A Doosan PSI engine running on a wide variety of fuels RESPONSE installed in construction equipment linear that can machine an impeller, a core component of including CNG, LPG and biogas. an automotive turbo charger. Doosan Infracore offers its own TMS solutions in all of The highest market share in major global markets The Engines Business Unit has achieved KRW 1 trillion in SUCCESS its new Doosan-branded construction equipment models through continuous launch of high-end products that total sales and turned a profit. released worldwide. fulfills market demand 24 25 2014 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report Our Strategic Performance Providing Reliable Solutions Feature of Worksite Management Work Efficiency Management Preemptive Service Regular Maintenance Doosan Telematics System Manage work areas effectively Check equipment operation Provide alarms for any potential Enhance repairs and mainthrough equipment location hours and actual work hours equipment malfunctions tenance through information CONNECT information monitoring and equipment moving and provide information on present fuel status and on the instrument panel to prevent accidents and extend on the consumption and replacement of consumables range limitation, etc. accumulated fuel consumption. equipment lifecycle. like filters and oils. TMS combines IT and construction equipment in the faster improvements. As it is run through the commost ideal ways Doosan Infracore offers custompany’s technological system, TMS 2.0 enables more er-centered service solutions through its Telematics stable information management and faster updates. CONEXPO 2014; System (TMS), which taps into GPS (Global Position Its numerous advantages also include enhanced data TELEMATICS System), GIS (Geographic Information System) and processing and display features that maximize cusDEMONSTRATION www.youtube.com/watch?v=L_bT7DIdj1M wireless Internet. TMS has incorporated information tomer convenience. The company will install TMS 2.0 technology into construction equipment. Terminals inin all of its Doosan-branded construction equipment stalled in equipment collect and process information weighing more than 5 tons. Thus, significant imon the location of excavators in operation, their opprovements are expected to be made in both design eration status and the state of their major systems, and utility. The DoosanCONNECT service will expand such as engines and hydraulic components before from China to North America and Europe. sending it out through mobile devices like smartphones and tablets in real-time. On the other hand, Doosan Infracore is carefully looking at further TMS the equipment can be remote-controlled from a disimprovement directions through continuous data tance via mobile devices. TMS offers a wide range of analysis and processing. Certainly TMS 3.0 will be services, including location tracking, remote vehicle applied to compact construction equipment as well. diagnosis, and accident detection. Site managers can As a solution provider in the construction equipment monitor worksites in real-time wherever they are. industry, the company will continue to boost customer satisfaction through improved ICT-related services. Having noticed the importance and potential of TMS early on, Doosan Infracore enhanced its ICT research, including the development of its own version of TMS, while establishing an ICT Planning Team in 2013. As a result, the company released its TMS 1.5 version tailored for advanced markets like North America and Europe. TMS 1.5 is installed in heavy-duty construction equipment weighing more than 14 tons. It is largely used for maintenance and repairs, including sending out alarms about the replacement of major parts. While TMS 1.0 was supplied by other companies, the new version enables Doosan Infracore-centered data management for more efficient processing of more diverse forms of information. In 2015, Doosan Infracore plans to release its DoosanCONNECT service equipped with TMS 2.0 to carry out more diverse processing of TMS data and deliver DOOSAN INFRACORE TMS SOLUTION 2008 2014 2015 TMS 1.0 TMS 1.5 TMS 2.0 C RE ATED VA LU ES Local Individual System Customization System DI TMS System A local individual system that installs A global web system installed in some The company’s version of a full TMS 1 terminals in construction equipment at the construction equipment by a single including terminals, web, and telecom servers site in China, North America and parts of sourcing company for the collection and which has improved operational efficiency Europe. analysis of integrated data at the local level and enabled integrated data analysis in in North America, Europe and parts of AP/E China, with the company planning to expand countries at present. the application to other parts of the world. A Doosan Infracore brand logo for the DoosanConnect service linking its equipment and TMS and symbolizing the long-lasting connection among Doosan Infracore, dealers and customers. 26 27 2014 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report Our Strategic Performance Reinforce the Company’s Leading Position Features of Gantry structure for stable Application of super-high-speed Realization of super-high-speed and FM High-end Machine Tools machining and application of spindle ensuring high precision high precision through linear motor mineral casting and high productivity driven linear axes 200/5AX linear 25 times 40000 r/min Maximum 2G Thermal safety compared to FM 200/5AX linear optimized for automotive engine ations. In addition, its super-high-speed of 40000 r/ ordinary casting downsizing trends – Discussions about turbochargers min spindle and linear motor ensure the machining are unavoidable in any conversation about the core center can engage in accurate and fast machining technologies that make engine downsizing possible. repetitively. The market acceptance of the Doosan FM A turbocharger increases an engine’s power through 200/5AX linear speaks volumes about its customers’ a compressor that forces extra air into a combustion trust in Doosan Machine Tools on the world stage. chamber. The impeller is one of the core compressor components. Despite the high price of non-Korean Doosan Machine Tools has introduced ergonomic machine tools, only non-Korean machine tools manudesigns seeking harmony between products and hufacture the impeller. Because it has to operate at high mans to further improve its customers’ work efficientemperatures and pressures, and in keeping with the cy and safety. In addition, maintenance and repairs latest trends for smaller engines in the automotive have become easier as part of the company’s focus industry, this component must be manufactured in on enhanced user convenience. As a result of its a smaller size. Therefore, its production has become endeavors, Doosan Infracore Machine Tools won Red even more demanding, requiring a very high degree Dot Design Awards in Germany in 2014 and 2015. of work precision. Doosan Infracore will grow into a world-class brand In 2014, Doosan Infracore succeeded in the developin high-end machine tools through efforts from ment and commercialization of the FM 200/5AX linear future-oriented perspectives to anticipating future for the first time in Korea, which means impellers are changes on the horizon. Through endeavors from a now produced through Korean machine tools. The human-centered perspective, it serves customers with Doosan FM 200/5AX linear is a high-speed, high-preits top-notch technological competency. cision vertical 5-axis machining center equipped with a linear motor. The model has already been purchased by a Korean impeller manufacturer, a first for the Korean machine tools industry. Apart from its excellence in thermal safety, the mechanical structure of the model is now made of mineral casting that excels in reducing vibration and is equipped with a bilateral symmetric gantry structure that enables it to operate efficiently even in high-temperature, high-speed situDOOSAN INFRACORE TMS SOLUTION C RE ATED VA LU ES NO.1 NO.2 Market Share Market Share 2 Korea, England, Italy, Ukraine Russia, Turkey 28 29 2014 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report Our Strategic Performance Improving Profitability Feature of Diversified Fuel Use Diversified Product Line-up Diversified Sales Channels Doosan Fuel-flexible Gas Engine Meet diverse customer needs through Secure diverse industrial gas engines Improve profitability through diverse the use of diverse gas fuels such as for 8to 22-liter buses, trucks, sales channels such as direct sales, PSI Engine LPG, CNG, wellhead gas, and biogas generators and shale gas drilling dealer sales, joint ventures and OEMs equipment according to local characteristics around the world Diverse alternative fuels can be used for gas engines America, Europe, China and Latin America. It is ex8~22ℓ Recently, the demand for gas engines has increased pected that the company will supply the best gas due to the development of shale gas in the USA, the engines in both quality and performance around the development of biogas in Europe, commercial power world. The industrial natural gas engines of Doosan generation for residences in the Middle East, and PSI come in five types 8ℓ, 11ℓ, 15ℓ, 18ℓ and 22ℓ. The the growth of industrial power generation markets company is ready to supply eco-friendly en-gines that in Southeast Asia. Doosan Infracore is taking active meet various countries’ emission controls through measures to expand its presence in those markets its improvements and advances, including the use of for industrial CNG (compressed natural gas) engines diverse fuel sources and the change in combustion used in power generators and compressors. CNG methods. combustion hardly produces exhaust gas or particles. It also generates fewer hazardous gases like CO, NOx Adapting quickly to changes in markets and customand O3. Its worldwide reserves are estimated to last ers, Doosan Infracore’s Engine Business Unit continfor the next 170 years. CNG is deemed quite approues to increase its sales. In 2014, it reached KRW 1 priate as an alternative to petroleum. trillion in annual total sales, and succeeded in turning a profit. The Engine Business Unit will continue to In 2014, Doosan Infracore set up Doosan PSI, LLC, pay close attention to changes in market trends and a joint venture between Doosan Infracore and PSI customer demands. It will promote the development (Power Solutions International), a company based of new products, including 1MW-class large engines, in the USA that specializes in gas engines. The joint more aggressively. venture seeks to globally market gas engines for power generators using a great diversity of gases, including LPG, CNG, wellhead gas and biogas. Launched in 2001, PSI is equipped with outstanding technological prowess in the areas of alternative fuel engines and eco-friendly fuel engines, in particular. Through the combination of Doosan Infracore’s the engine development capabilities and PSI’s flexible development/production systems, the joint venture is aimed at becoming the market leader in North DOOSAN INFRACORE TMS SOLUTION TURNAROUND TO 45,734 PROFIT 1,004,015 OPERATING PROFIT 818,427 (KRW million) 687,809 C RE ATED VA LU ES 3 2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 ACHIEVEMENT OF KRW 1 TRILLION IN ANNUAL SALES (7,465) OPERATING PROFIT (26,080) (KRW million) 30 31 2014 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report Our Strategic Performance OUR VALUES FOR DEALERS AND CUSTOMERS Foster a win-win partnership with global dealers Dealers are the core channel between the company and its customers. Therefore, dealers’ competitiveness directly translates to that of the company. Doosan Infracore carries out diverse programs to further boost its dealers’ competitiveness based on the compaAndrea Ghidini, ny’s five values for its dealers – Excellence, Partnership, Growth, CEO, Technomach Customers and Integrity. In 2014, the company further strengthened its partnership with its dealers through improvements in its dealer management system and the establishment of the Doosan Partners Academy, an online education system customized for dealers, particularly in emerging markets. I TA LY 140 CREATING EXCELLENCE TOGETHER (countries) Exce l le n ce In t e gri t y Par tne rsh ip Doosan Infracore – Global Dealer Network Growth 24-year cooperation enables dealer to achieve great success. Cu sto mers “It was 24 years ago, in 1991, that TECNOMACH first met Doosan Infracore Specifications for machine tools are extremely diverse and different, depending on industries and regions. Therefore, accurate communication with dealers well-versed in local circumstances is a critical factor for a manufacturer’s success. Doosan Infracore doesn’t just listen to our voices to hear our customer requirements. It strives to find solutions to issues in a proactive manner and works hard to develop and over 1,200 present new products. I think it was the result of our close collaboration with Doosan Infracore that our company was able to reach a market share of more than 25% in the Italian machine tools market and surpassed the 10,000 unit mark in our (dealers) aggregate sales of Doosan Infracore machine tools in Italy over the years. I hope that as we always have, we will continue to trust each other and maintain a cooperative relationship between us for our shared growth for many years to come.” 32 33 2014 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report Our Strategic Performance DEVELOPING THE POTENTIAL FOR GROWTH I NDONE SI A Walter Berry, chairman and president, Berry Companies, Inc. My vocational expertise and efficiency has increased since my training at Doosan Vocational School “I was extremely lucky to participate in Doosan Infracore’s Machine Tools Training of Training (TOT) course. I was fully content with the practical curriculum, which I could apply to my job right away. I am sure the training will be instrumental in my career development down the road, too. Previously, I operated machines set by others. Now I can do the job myself thanks to the education on computer programming and sophisticated precision machining at the TOT course. As the training was provided by an equipment manufacturer, I learned about diverse features of the machine tool. I hope the TOT course will continue to provide Indonesian companies and employees more opportunities to train them to enhance their practical job competence.” STRENGTHENING LONG-TERM PARTNERSHIP I always feel that Bobcat Company and its dealers are ‘one’ through open communications. “Bobcat Company always delivers more than we expect. We say that the compaU SA ny will not be able to make any more improvements whenever it releases a new attachment. Bobcat Company, however, always comes back and surprises us with even better products. Despite its huge dealership network – more than 600 in North America Bobcat Company maintains open communication with each of us, making us feel that the company and we are one. Bobcat Company hosts regular conferences with us to share not only the company’s product roadmap and information on new products, but also the company’s strategy and vision. Combined with active personal contact among dealers, the occasions further strengthen the bond between the company and its dealers. I believe Bobcat Company set the world record by producing one million units of compact equipment, more than any of its competitors, because of such strong partnership with its dealers. Witnessing Bobcat Company doing its utmost for mutual success, I feel extremely lucky to work with Bobcat Company. I am also proud to maintain a special relationship with Taufiq Nur A trainer from the MIDC (Metal Industry Development Center), Indonesia Bobcat Company as my father did starting in the 1960s.” 34 35 2014 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report Our Strategic Performance CHINA BUILDING RELATIONSHIPS WITH INTEGRITY Amazed at the thoughtful consideration of the sales of my second-hand equipment A potential customer from a power generator “When Doosan Infracore called me to ask if our company was willing to put its manufacturing company who attended the Middle stock of second-hand heavy equipment up for auction, honestly, I was a bit susEast Electricity Exhibition picious. Until then, manufacturing and sales were clearly two different things. I hadn’t met a manufacturer making moves for the auction of its second-hand products. Doosan Infracore told me it would be an opportunity to repair and sell the equipment. It said our company could purchase their new vehicles from the sales revenue of the auctions. I realized then they were suggesting rebuilding our relationship instead of putting an end to our relationship. We eventually agreed to the auction idea. More people participated in the auction of our heavy equipment than CUSTOMERS’ ENGAGEMENT FOR NEW we had expected. A total of 47 out of 53 equipment units were sold off. I felt my OPPORTUNITIES final judgment was correct. I hope Doosan Infracore and our company will continue to become good partners and achieve shared growth.” UNITED ARAB EMIRATES I want a partnership beyond mere commercial relations “Middle East Electricity, in Dubai, UAE, is the largest annual energy exhibition in the Middle East. As a power generator manufacturer, our company has continued to participate in the tradeshow to meet our present and future customers. I visited the Doosan booth and found a familiar face among Doosan Infracore Engine Business Area members there. Thanks to their kindness, I was able to carefully check the company’s DP Series, a new generator engine, displayed at the exhibition booth. I also took part in a conference where I learned much more about Doosan Infracore through presentations on the company’s engine lineup and new products on display at the event, as well as its corporate strategies and visions. The staff visited our company’s booth and we talked a lot about our common interests, including power generator engines. I was happy to be able to enhance our personal Chengxiaowei, relationship through the encounter, which I hope will lead to a solid partnership an employee of Shandong Yonghong Machinery Co., Ltd. between our two companies beyond mere commercial ties between us.” 36 37 2014 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report Our Strategic Performance DOOSAN WAY TIME, ALL THE TIME Let’s implement Doosan Way for innovation and prosperity. Employees of Doosan Infracore implement the Doosan Way: Doosan’s aspiration and core values and its way of business management continue to bring innovation to the organization. Since 2012 when it launched the Doosan Way, Doosan Infracore has continued to implement the Doosan Way and encourage all employees to fully understand and embrace it. Doosan Infracore fosters Doosan people who fully internalize the Doosan Way throughout their daily activities, establish advanced processes and systems throughout the organization, and enhance the company’s fundamental competitiveness. In 2014, Doosan Infracore focused on laying the foundation for the next generation of performance results based on the evolved Doosan Way model. The company will enhance its power to execute major tasks and improve its business performance by encouraging all its employees to function as Team Doosan from now on. 38 39 2014 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report Our Strategic Performance Leaders' initiative TOP Doosan Infracore places emphasis on powerful changes that start at the top. Most notably, the company realized changes in 2014 through leaders’ initiatives. Each team produced a IMPROVEMENTS MADE THROUGH LEADER’S ACTION PLAN Leader’s Action Plan (LAP), charting the commitments of its PERFORMANCE OF executives and team leaders to practical changes. The company developed the Insights Program to educate its leaderDegree of Improvement felt by Employees DOOSAN WAY ship about more effective implementation of the changes the (ON A 5-POINT SCALE) (ON A 5-POINT SCALE) Doosan Way dictates. The company also published an email newsletter called Executives Weekly to share leadership’s ini3.59 3.76 CHANGE MODELS DOWN tiatives, actions and changes with all employees. According to an employee survey on the effects of the LAP, employees have found their executives changing for the better. Starting in 2015, the company plans to implement the LAP among team leaders. Improvements in the culture of meetings and reporting COMPLEX Another improvement Doosan Infracore achieved in 2014 included changes in the culture of meetings and reporting. In 2014, employees of Doosan Efforts to boost work efficiency through improvements in its Infracore worked to internalize culture of meetings and reporting included the elimination the Doosan Way. They made of unnecessary meetings and an increase of meeting intenimprovements in their way of sity to the degree that key conclusions could be reached in working and the organizational meetings. Thus, each business group seeks to improve its culture through closer association regular meetings while intensifying its education on meeting between their work and the 1H2014 2H2014 skills. To further improve its culture of meetings and reportDoosan Way. Starting from 2015, ing, the company also launched the Why Campaign, which the company plans to boost its was designed to facilitate communication within the organiimplementation capabilities for major tasks through Team Doosan, based zation, and the One-Page Report Initiative for all employees. Unnecessary workloads are being reduced through efforts to IMPROVED on the accomplishments achieved through the implementation of the run meetings effectively and make various reports as brief as possible. Team leader’s initiatives in improving the company’s THE WAY evolved Doosan Way model. culture of meetings and reporting as well as the company’s WE WORK diverse improvement efforts in various areas are regularly gauged through companywide surveys among employees on improvements they actually notice. Identified shortcomings are worked on immediately. DEGREE OF IMPROVEMENT NOTIVED BY EMPLOYEES ABOUT OVERHAULED MEETING/REPORT CULTURE Implementation of advanced processes and systems Doosan Infracore implemented the CFP (Cross-Functional MEETINGS REPORTS Process) in 2014, whereby major management decisions are (ON A 5-POINT SCALE) (ON A 5-POINT SCALE) not made by each division of its business groups, but by multiple units (functions) operating as a single team under a particular value chain to achieve common goals. The com3.43 3.56 3.35 3.39 pany categorized its value chain in seven core areas and selected seven major tasks to promote, with its organizations working more closely together. The seven core areas include NPD (New Product Development), SCM (Supply Chain Management), quality management including customer management, supplier management, product/parts discontinuation decisions, design modifications and response to customer parts orders. Meanwhile, as its CFP implementation is stabilized, employees’ productivity will rise and their roles and responsibilities in the process will become clearer. They can also figure out whom or which department to seek cooperSIMPLE ation with much more easily. Through such progress, potential conflicts of interest between departments are solved in advance with necessary decisions made more promptly. As a result, employees’ work efficiency will rise along with their job satisfaction. 2013 2014 2013 2014 40 41 2014 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report Our Strategic Performance THINK GREEN, MAKE GREEN Create future values through eco-friendly activities and products Climate change and resource depletion are emerging as compelling challenges for the entire human species. Environmental management has become an essential part of a business entities’ sustainable growth. As a responsible global corporate citizen, Doosan Infracore implements its environmental management from systematic and strategic perspectives. Each of its business sites make efforts to reduce their GHG emissions, prevent environmental pollution, and conserve energy and other resources while continuing to develop and launch eco-friendly products that fulfill environmental regulations that are under consideration in the developed world, in particular, through its cutting-edge technologies and fresh perspectives. LESS EMISSION & MORE EFFICIENCY 665,468kWh 20% Energy conservation in Wahpeton and Fargo (North Improved fuel efficiency of Dakota, USA) sites through the use of LED lights D-Ecopower technology 36,659 tCO2e 6% Reduced GHG emissions below the allowed Improved fuel efficiency of Euro 6 engine level in Korea (2014) (compared to Doosan Infracore’s existing products) 42 43 2014 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report Our Strategic Performance THINK GREEN MAKE GREEN at workplaces around the world with eco-friendly technology and products Worksites in Korea achieved more than the government’s minimum Worksites in the USA boost management efficiency D-Ecopower, Doosan Infracore’s original technology Euro 6 Engine meets the latest environmental regulations requirements through voluntary initiatives through TQM system D-Ecopower is Doosan Infracore’s original technology that boosts through advanced technologies Doosan Infracore is subject to the Korean government’s GHG & In 2014, Doosan Infracore established TQM (Total Quality Manfuel efficiency through the electronic control of hydraulic pumps. Europe began to implement EURO 6, the latest diesel engine Energy Target Management System. The company has set the reagement) systems at its major worksites in the USA, including D-Ecopower began to be applied to mass-produced equipment in emission legislation of the European Commission, in September duction below the legally allowed emission level as its goal. It has the Bismarck plant, to measure the consumption of natural gas, 2013. Through a total of nine sensors, the new technology calcu2014 and banned the sales of vehicles that fail to meet emission continued to achieve this target. In 2014, the GHG emission alelectricity, water and fuels while controlling its GHG emissions. lates the oil quantity and power required for the operation of an standards in Europe. Doosan Infracore complied with the EURO 6 lowed by the Korean government was 191,657 tCO2e and the comThe worksites disclose their GHG emissions on a monthly basis. excavator and controls the hydraulic pump accordingly, supplying standards through improvements in engine parts, optimized fuel pany’s target was 189,740 tCO2e. As a result of its implementation They discuss ways to reduce emission and make improvements at only the necessary quantity of fuel. It boosts productivity while recombustion, and improvements in aftertreatment systems for CNC of stringent GHG reduction programs, its emission during the year the Quality Board held semiannually. The application of TQM will ducing fuel consumption to a significant degree. When D-Ecopowengines for commercial vehicles. Most notably, the company fulfills was 154,998 tCO2e or 81% of its targeted emission level. The comexpand to all the worksites in the USA. They will also continue to er is applied to a 38-ton excavator, for instance, users can expect sharply strengthened NOx regulation through the application of pany emitted 36,659 tCO2e less than allowed by the government increase their dependence on new and renewable energy. To help up to a 20% improvement in fuel efficiency compared to ordinary SCR (Selective Catalytic Reduction). Installed in the exhaust pipe, in 2014. If the emissions trading scheme had been put in place in reduce the emission of GHG and other environmentally hazardous excavators, with fuel consumption lowered by 12% and operability SCR reduces NOx in exhaust gases. Using Urea aqueous solution 2014, the company would have earned KRW 3.6 billion under the materials, major worksites in the USA began using LED lights in improved by 20%. as catalyst reduction, SCR enables vehicles to reduce hazardous assumption that the purchase price was KRW 100,000 per ton. 2014. The Wahpeton office replaced 297 lights and the Fargo office gases without regular cleaning. It is an eco-friendly technology replaced parking lot lights with LED lamps. They are expected to SPC realizes smart control from a totally new perspective that slows down the heating rate of engine oil and reduces oil Worksites in China turn to cleaner production save 665,468kWh of electricity a year or US$43,955 in utility bills. SPC (Smart Power Control) is a new technology that reduces fuel consumption. Through technological development, Doosan InfraWorksites in China have set energy consumption and conservation Bobcat Company made improvements in its transportation process consumption and improves operation efficiency through the comcore has improved mileage by up to 6%* compared to EURO 5 plans at the beginning of each year, taking into account changes and reduced the number of its daily transports between Gwinner bination of engine rotation control technology and hydraulic pump models with customers expected to save KRW 1.2 million* in fuel in energy situations due to concerns about climate change. Perand Bismarck, reducing miles driven by approximately 800 miles. response speed control technology. The application of the SPC bills a year. sonnel assigned to the task of energy consumption and conservatechnology leads to around 5% fuel conservation, which translates * On the assumption of mileage of 100,000km/year, CNG price of KRW 920/Lube, Urea price of KRW 1,635/L. The annual fuel bill includes the Urea cost. tion management carefully monitor the company’s utilization and to KRW 4.5 million* in fuel bills a year for a 30-ton excavator in conservation of electricity and fuels. They submit monthly reports Korea, assuming it operates eight hours a day, five days a week. G2 engine meeting Tier 4 Final regulation is highly regarded RESPONSIBLE on energy consumption calculated in TCE (Ton of Coal Equivalent) Doosan Infracore applies SPC technology to all its excavator modworldwide STRATEGIES TO to relevant government authorities. The Chinese subsidiaries reRESPOND TO els meeting Tier 4 Final emission regulations. Equipped with new combustion technology, the G2 engine is a lease information on the GHG emissions calculated in tCO2e (total CLIMATE * On an assumption of 200 liters of diesel a day, 5% fuel efficiency improvement, and compact diesel engine that meets the most stringent emission CHANGE KRW 1,700 per liter of diesel carbon dioxide content) from the worksites of DICC (Doosan Infrastandards without the installation of a costly diesel particulate 76p core China Corporation) to the public through the China CSR Refilter (DPF). The engine is equipped with ULCC (Ultra-Low PM Comport each year. In 2014, they began preparing to obtain a Cleaner bustion), Doosan Infracore’s unique new combustion technology DEVELOPMENT OF Production Certificate from the government. The certificate assures for which the company owns many intellectual property rights. GREEN that its recipient has established a system whereby it reduces IMPROVED PRODUCTS ULCC reduces the generation of various hazardous materials from production of pollutants from its entire production process and ENERGY 65p diesel combustion through the optimization of combustion. Even produces goods in an eco-friendly manner. EFFICIENCY without DPF, an aftertreatment system, it fulfills Tier 4 Final stan76p dards while improving fuel efficiency. 800 miles 20% 5% 6% 800 miles a day in reduced transport distance 20% improvement in fuel efficiency 5% improvement in fuel efficiency 6% improvement in fuel efficiency 12 trucks replaced with CNG trucks 12% reduction in fuel consumption KRW 4.5 million in saved fuel costs a year KRW 1.2 million a year in fuel costs Bobcat Company in the USA reduced transport distance by 800 miles When D-Ecopower is applied to a 38-ton excavator, there is SPC technology improves the engine rotation number and the The CNG engine for commercial vehicles complies with a day through improvements in its transport processes between an improvement of up to 20% in fuel efficiency compared to hydraulic pump response speed. Its application improves fuel the EURO 6 requirements. Compared to a EURO 5 model, Gwinner and Bismarck (North Dakota) in 2014. It will further reduce traditional equipment, reducing fuel consumption by 12%. efficiency by around 5% and saves about it improves fuel efficiency by around 6%, saving about its GHG emission through the introduction of CNG trucks in 2015. KRW 4.5 million a year in fuel costs. KRW 1.2 million in fuel costs each year. 44 45 2014 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report Our CSR Performance PERFORMANCE 1 2 CSR Management Enhancement of System & Customer Value and Management Quality Competitiveness Overview OUR CSR 3 4 1-6 Employee Value Establishment of Proposition the Integrated EHS System 5 6 Mutual Growth with Supporting Our Suppliers Development of Local Communities For stakeholders’ convenience, this report has summarized the company’s major CSR activities in 2014 in five categories, such as Customers, Employees, EHS, Suppliers and Community Service in the segment titled Our CSR Performance. Each category includes the major issues identified in an assessment, analysis of the significance, and impact of each major CSR activity in connection with previous CSR activities, and the company’s future action plans for CSR activities in that category. 46 47 2014 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report 48 CSR MANAGEMENT SYSTEM & MANAGEMENT OVERVIEW 74 ESTABLISHMENT OF THE INTEGRATED EHS SYSTEM Our CSR Performance 62 ENHANCEMENT OF CUSTOMER VALUE AND QUALITY COMPETITIVENESS 80 MUTUAL GROWTH WITH OUR SUPPLIERS 68 EMPLOYEE VALUE PROPOSITION 85 SUPPORTING DEVELOPMENT OF LOCAL COMMUNITIES CSR MANAGEMENT SYSTEM CSR MANAGEMENT SYSTEM INTEGRATED CSR MANAGEMENT SYSTEM ••• Doosan Infracore consistently seeks to raise its value and Furthermore, green management tasks are now handled that of its stakeholders through its business by the CSR Committee, while the EHS Team has been CSR Operational System (Annual Process for the Execution of Major Tasks) activities. To that end, the company focuses on enhancing assigned the role of coordinating all the company’s green communication with each of its stakeholder groups management activities in a bid to enhance its green CSR Assessment including shareholders, investors, employees, suppliers, management. Once the CSR Committee has made decisions Impact/Materiality Analysis – local communities, central and local governments, and the related to major directions, the CSR Working Group, CSR Planning & Upgrade Stakeholder Engagement Identification of Key Issues media throughout the entire range of its management which is composed of the team leaders of the relevant Analysis of Global Trends / activities with the aim of creating new values for them. departments, draws up specific action plans and begins to External Situations Therefore, the company pursues efficient management with discuss various implementation tasks. As a coordinator unit CSR Committee · CSR Working Group balanced approaches to corporate growth and stability with for the company’s overall CSR strategies, the CSR Team Stakeholder Feedback · Publication of Integrated Report Identification of Improvement Tasks the aim of continuing to raise its future corporate value on identifies stakeholders’ issues and needs, assesses the Performance Sharing · Creation of Improvement Plan Agreement of R&R Establishment of Action Plan · Regular Monitoring the one hand, and seeks healthy shared growth with its level of the company’s internal CSR, formulates companystakeholders through responsible CSR management as a wide CSR tasks and strategies, monitors the company’s leading global corporation on the other. CSR performance, and publishes its integrated annual reports. CSR Promotion System At Doosan Infracore, all CSR activities have been CSR Committee coordinated by the CSR Team since 2011. The CSR Doosan Infracore operates the CSR Committee, which is CSR Strategies Committee, as the company’s top decision-making body composed of the CEO and other key executives, as its on CSR matters, is headed by the CEO and discusses risks highest decision-making body regarding CSR: it not only and business opportunities from the perspective of CSR, in establishes the company’s CSR strategies and policies Aspiration A Proud Global Doosan addition to its monthly meetings at which diverse CSR and and examines the progress and performance of each CSR green management tasks are approved and adjusted. program, but also reviews the potential business risks In 2014, the committee set up five subcommittees with associated with recent changes in CSR environments and a focus on implementing seven CSR indices to engage in seeks to derive new business opportunities from them. Doosan Way more in-depth discussion about each CSR task, thereby The committee composed of experts from five key areas The Doosan Way boosting the efficiency of corporate decisionmaking in including HR, EHS, Fair Operations, Customer Values, and CSR Goal 2020, Global CSR Leading Company association with corporate management strategies. Local Communities has organized one company-wide CSR support organization, the Advisory Group, to promote CSR CSR Mission Supporting Responsible and Sustainable Growth to the greatest possible extent in keeping with Doosan Infracore’s status as a leading global corporation. CSR Pillars Developing People Reliable Operating Responsible Engagement CSR Management System Core Area Customers HR EHS Fair Operation Local Communities Chairperson CEO CSR Composition CEO, CFO, 9 Business Area Heads (Total: 11 persons) Committee Coordinator Green Coordinator External Assessments CSR Team EHS Team Included in the DJSI Asia Pacific for four years (2011 2014) Obtained Class A in the ESG evaluation conducted by Human Rights/ the Corporate Governance Service, Korea Subcommittee Environment Fair Operations Customer Values Local Communities Labor Practices Subcommittees In-house Safety/Health Suppliers Customers Community under the CSR Human Rights 2011-2014 A Environment/Pollutants Ethical Management Product/Technology Engagement Committee Major Indices Labor Practices On-site Energy Green Partnership Innovation Community Green Operation Green Product Development * The Dow Jones Sustainability Indices (DJSI) are the most prestigious global sustainCSR ability benchmarks co-developed by the Dow Jones of the USA and RobecoSAM Finance · Strategy · Working of Switzerland. They evaluate the sustainability performance of major companies HRM • HRD EHS-related Teams Shared Growth · Audit Marketing · Quality · R&D The Doosan Way Group on the basis of an analysis of corporate economic, environmental and social performance. 48 49 2014 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report 48 CSR MANAGEMENT SYSTEM & MANAGEMENT OVERVIEW 74 ESTABLISHMENT OF THE INTEGRATED EHS SYSTEM Our CSR Performance 62 ENHANCEMENT OF CUSTOMER VALUE AND QUALITY COMPETITIVENESS 80 MUTUAL GROWTH WITH OUR SUPPLIERS 68 EMPLOYEE VALUE PROPOSITION 85 SUPPORTING DEVELOPMENT OF LOCAL COMMUNITIES STAKEHOLDER-CENTERED CSR ACTIVITIES MATERIALITY TEST STAKEHOLDER-CENTERED CSR ACTIVITIES MATERIALIT Y TEST Communication with stakeholders and their engagement are the most important strategic values for STEP 1 STEP 2 STEP 3 STEP 4 Doosan Infracore’s CSR. The expectations and demands of the various stakeholder groups, including customers and suppliers, are collected through regular communication activities performed by each functional department. The CSR Team also conducts annual surveys and in-depth interviews to collect IDENTIFICATION OF INTERNAL CSR ASSESSMENT PRIORITIZATION REVIEW AND FEEDBACK stakeholders’ opinions. The issues identified through these efforts are reflected in the company’s STAKEHOLDER ISSUES management activities. The company’s full disclosure of the results of its CSR activities to its stakeholders serves to build a solid bond of trust with them. Communication Channels Key Issues Major Activities Doosan Infracore recognizes the impact its business STEP 3: PRIORITIZATION ors the Cus Stakeholders activities have on its stakeholders. Thus, it sets the Material issues were identified through CSR analysis and est s tors inv nd VO C, a tom ers v e nd a nd Doosa priorities of its diverse non-financial activities through stakeholder engagement. Twenty-two issues were selected s/In rs a time stri /De der lde n ves n Infra ale rs re hol ar eho tion o es. to cor the materiality assessment processes it has established, as the material issues of 2014, including eco-friendly Sha its sh rma o ve nu from supp e liste because prioritizing issues, as well as focusing on material products, energy management/climate change response, es nt inf le re •S the l y v n s vid e b •S pe ir p aluab inten pro estm te sta •I ystem edy h ers l t issues, is the key to its successful management activities. respect for human rights, and boosting supplier CSR. The aco re v t in enera mp a rov atic m ndlin pec e goo ly to Infr aren g ility em g tive ds In selecting the material issues, Doosan Infracore focuses CSR Committee finally chose four of them as the company’s tab y ent anage of cu s. to osan ransp ves to profi polic •W s m its o D ith t str i s in ayout res e ate r-ti saf in pr ent stome cus tom on those issues to which its diverse stakeholders pay items for improvement in 2014 from the perspective of their w ent u c p los e o •E ght pr ty an oduct f cus r com ers vem nd c nan k xp ote d c qu tom pla pro ivide dis over d ris sh and ctio onv alit er ints keen attention due to their potentially high impact on its potential impact on the company’s sustainable growth and •Im igh d anced rate g ty an •D arpen ed R& n of enien y, perf feedb H h o • •En corp ortun t i iffe ed D i custo ce orm ack business activities. Fundamentally, the company strives to their potential to bring about improvements. Companywide ren t n anc en tiat echno vestm mer i yees d pp Doosa Media ities oun s o gem n e, •S sines mana ed cus logica ents a forma deal with its material issues from a long-term perspective, focus is placed on improving CSR through collaboration Emplo ortun B u Cus tome l edge nd tio / n n Infra ers by engaging in business activities that have the potential to among the responsible departments so the best results s • r old VO tome ser s l opp are system vice h areh C& rm on s elevate the values of not just itself, but humanity as well. can be obtained in connection with the company’s existing s / C core p of erials n w on orks all Ce itorin tiona ing at n io cus hop nte g/ business activities. nsatio eet re m rmat in e welf Inte ome s Sur r/Join t educa es m rovide a clos t info tion l u •Sha ompe ent cours er g r s vey t STEP 1: INTERNAL CSR ASSESSMENT Gen Dis tmen rticip -hoc a ma rate a nag d c tisfac s and c them runs divers es a d s the ring a m recog Inv site/P ces/A s em usto tion ation s develop n g ent m / By developing its own CSR assessment model and carrying STEP 4: REVIEW AND FEEDBACK b sys er uncil/ we nfere eetin evalu ccurate offers nition ent Co m tem out its own assessment, Doosan Infracore preemptively Doosan Infracore has continued to improve its management ie co IR m pabilit life. •Fair of the edia with anagem dures/ lance ons o . It als Labor-M andling proce nd ca ife ba responds to global external assessments while using it environment in a variety of ways to carry out fracore , up-to ty of Press n ing a •Work-l labor relati municatio releas ce h letters/ to develop the CSR issues it will have to respond to in the four improvement tasks identified by its materiality an In al leaders their quali Grievan -date •Train Press es/ a t/News ir righ t to b ccurate info l com co Regula nferences/ Intrane ay Surveys/ s oniou 1 2 the future. The assessment framework is composed of five assessment and to achieve its midto long-term CSR Doos tiona inform •Harm -organiza r W glob m Doosan s with top ee areas, including customer value, HR, EHS, fair operations, strategies. We would like to share our major activities and prove Works ite vis tings/ ation 7 3 e info intra e Dialogu ement w into and local community engagement. The CSR analysis model outcomes as well as our plans with the stakeholders rmed. rmation in its (to to im sting urs) manag was first applied to worksites in China in 2013, followed and receive feedback from them. The major achievements •Boo to gro 6 4 5 by Bobcat Company in the USA in 2014. The results of the outlined in this report were verified by Doosan Infracore S / in cts assessment of the worksites in Korea, China, and the USA and an independent third party. Specifics about the on oje al E S u su duc upp ppli ati pr ion int D are reflected in this report. Each assessment takes into verification are included in the third-party assessment cip n at jo sta oos rti tio n of s Pa diza n in ion ram pp at li ers bil an St m t fo t, e fina t fo har account the individual characteristics of the company’s report attached at pages 99-100. ru pa ar tio at g lie on ers ’ D i ize In ren ar r s th nc r s in nd by nd ipa er pro rs/ ’ th frac gt ket up ica e, t up g w th e la g a overseas worksites. C an Co y sta rtic /Op ion wi ivat he s i pli l m ec pl it na din eir or su Te ons d t unc / e r Pa jects erat Town hall meetings • e ne nc ers a hn ier h s nc -p tio bi o p with local communities/ Ex bu h d lud ’ e na ol s t up na d a lia blic pr coo pa pp ch ul rai il/ su sin elp fai in n ge og o r t g try me y, ra plie STEP 2: IDENTIFICATION OF STAKEHOLDER ISSUES mp Pu Corporate community pp es s to an • n or n t n t f olog ing ing th or s m its ran joi in n tra ise rs Co • es es eir Enh ded involvement activities/ ta su sa nt to t, e ini At this stage, Doosan Infracore compiles a list of issues • ut tax . ns Sisterhood ties/Dialogues with or s a mo na pp cti en ov tc. ng tio f su ical ervi or rib s t ula ca an in ng gem lie on try er ) , based on analysis of recent CSR trends and listens to the nt ing ne community leaders • env pab ced form t se reg s ot en rs t pr co pay ear en d hip pp ce ac as stakeholder’s insights on the selection of issues. re n nm an ers Su iro ili su a s/ he t o tic co by i er les rtn pp nm tie pp tio lie r f thr the es Above all, the company identifies recent CSR issues and ra nt aw •Development of eco-friendly products or ou ir ov or en s ( or n s rs Inf me e l •Improvement of the environments in and Su ms g c lG • pp of h te omp social concerns through analyses of the media, CSR-related an p th tra around worksites and prevention of pollution o lie os el en •Establishment of environmental management systems as ch eti sis nic tiv international standards, guideline indicators and internal Do dev rs l/C •Communication with local communities tan al en and external environments. Based on the analysis results, l ca ce and ess cia •Engagement in various corporate community involveLo . so the company begins collecting its stakeholders’ opinions. ment and volunteer activities •Invigoration of local economies fin and an cia Doosan Infracore seeks shared growth with l local communities on the basis of its responsibility as a corporate citizen. Local Communities (Environment/NGOs) 50 51 2014 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report 48 CSR MANAGEMENT SYSTEM & MANAGEMENT OVERVIEW 74 ESTABLISHMENT OF THE INTEGRATED EHS SYSTEM Our CSR Performance 62 ENHANCEMENT OF CUSTOMER VALUE AND QUALITY COMPETITIVENESS 80 MUTUAL GROWTH WITH OUR SUPPLIERS 68 EMPLOYEE VALUE PROPOSITION 85 SUPPORTING DEVELOPMENT OF LOCAL COMMUNITIES MATERIALITY TEST MATERIALITY TEST ••• ••• CSR Improvement Issue Pool Stakeholders’ degree of interest As the result of a materiality assessment, Eco-friendly products CSR Spread to Overseas Subsidiaries – Implementation of Short-term Tasks by Bobcat Company North America the company has identified a total Respect for human rights of 22 key issues, including four major High Issues related to the Four Major Energy management / improvement tasks, as the material issues Improvement Tasks As a global corporate citizen, Doosan Infracore strives to spread enhanced CSR initiatives to its overseas subsidiaries climate change response that its stakeholders pay keen interest to and fulfill its corporate responsibilities worldwide. For shared growth with local communities, the company seeks to Boosting suppliers’ CSR activities reflect its companywide CSR strategies in CSR activities carried out at the community level in addition to its efforts because of their high potential impact on Win-win with suppliers Customer data protection CSR Roll-out to manage its economic, social and environmental impacts on them. Doosan Infracore began expanding its CSR inithe company’s management in the areas Employment and employment relations Customer safety/healthcare by Bobcat tiatives to overseas subsidiaries in 2011, starting with Chinese subsidiaries. In 2014, the company established Bobcat of corporate economic, environmental Fair marketing Product / technology innovation Company Company’s CSR operating system and Bobcat Company has implemented CSR strategic plans. To make improvements Medium and social performance. Doosan Infracore Environmental risks to local communities Management of pollutants Sustainable use of resources North America in its overall CSR performance, Doosan Infracore will promote enhanced CSR activities at both global and regional promotes its various management levels. The following are the quick-win tasks of Bobcat Company in the USA, identified as a result of the analysis of Environmental management activities with the purpose of achieving (water, raw materials, etc.) Ethical management the subsidiary’s current CSR level, its stakeholders’ expectations, its business leverage, and the country’s relevant value creation in the 22 key issues. It Community engagement/development regulations. Bobcat Company North America plans to complete the quick-win tasks by the end of first half of 2015. also strives to fulfill its corporate social Protection of diversity responsibility while endeavoring to grow Employees’ quality of life CSR improvement task identification process into a sustainable global company armed Customer communications Low with a strong competitive edge. Labor relations HR development Phase I Phase II Phase III Internal safety and healthcare Low Medium High Establishment of Promotion Governance Establishment of Roll-out System Implementation of North America CSR Degree of risk due to insufficient level of internal CSR • CSR necessity surveys and promotion • Development of DI CSR assessment tool • Assessment of internal CSR level discussions • Establishment of roll-out master plan • CSR workshop and education attended by • CSR organization and coordinator selection • Prior analysis of external environments Bobcat Company team leaders and above • Contact with relevant team for CSR promotion • Identification of major issues Management of Four Major Improvement Tasks and co-work discussion with relevant • Selection of CSR promotion tasks for each area executives Quick-win tasks: Oct. 2014 June 2015 HR, EHS, Sales & Marketing, Strategic Midterm tasks: July 2015 Dec. 31, 2016 The company’s four major improvement tasks are the core issues identified by a companywide CSR analysis. These issues Sourcing, Engineering, Product Mgmt, • Task implementation and monitoring greatly impact the company’s sustainable growth, and there is a high likelihood of improvement. The selected four improveLegal, Finance (Oct. 2014 ) Four Major ment tasks are managed under the company’s midto long-term plan. They are also closely related to the manner in which Bobcat Company CSR Work Group organized Improvement the Doosan Group promotes its CSR activities. At its monthly meetings, the CSR Committee reviews progress made within the four improvement tasks. Doosan Infracore will expand the application of the four tasks to all its worksites, including Tasks those overseas. 2013.1~11 2013.12~2014.5 2014.6~ CSR promotion discussions and designation Assessment index reviews and tests Task establishment and implementation / of persons-incharge Monitoring and outcome collection Customer Value HR EHS Fair Operations Four CSR Area Improvement Tasks Major Contents Progress Definition and Standard Establishment Establishment of Human Rights Establishment of Worksite Energy Enhancement of Supplier Network Improvement Tasks of Eco-friendly Products Risk Management System Efficiency Management System CSR Management System Customer Values Enhancement of customer-centered activities Development of education programs relating to customers satisfaction 2/3 Related Issues Energy Management/Response to Protection of customer data Disclosure of personal information policies at the Bobcat Company online store Done Eco-friendly Products Respect for Human Rights Enhancement of Supplier CSR Activities고 Climate Change Enhancement of product liability Study on environmental impact of products and establishment of 1/3 Task • Establish a roadmap for eco-friendly products • Prevent human rights violations and respond • Enhance the foundation for sustainable • Establish a supplier network CSR management Significance and boost product and brand values to violation incidents effectively through the management through proactive GHG response system to reduce non-financial risks and seek information provision system through official evaluation processes. promotion of a culture of respect for human (reduction) activities and help reduce fixed shared growth with suppliers. rights and the establishment of a management costs through the management of energy Improvements in new product development processes Done system. efficiency. Mid/Long-term • Establishment of processes to evaluate & • Prevent human rights violations through • Run an energy KPI and performance management • Set up a practical support system that can HR Enhancement of employees’ quality of life Implementation of flextime Done Goal manage eco-friendliness the establishment of a culture of respect system boost suppliers’ fundamental competitiveness • Obtain official environmental for human rights and the operation of a • Improve energy efficiency through continuous Changes in HR policies and implementation of an improved in-house Done management program management and investments communication system Short-term •C arry out life-cycle assessment (LCA) • Establish human rights risk management • Establish a basic unit measurement and • Publish CSR guidelines based on consistent Goal for major product groups processes and publish a related manual management system philosophies and distribute them to suppliers EHS Enhancement of environmental policies Establishment of environmental policies 1/2 • Establish  definitions and standards for • Advertise human rights education courses • Establish systems to train specialists and eco-friendly products and infrastructure promote activities aimed at energy efficiency Management of GHG emissions and energy Establishment of GHG emissions management processes Done • Establish a system to improve human rights of improvement in-house minorities • Establish midto long-term energy strategies consumption LED lights installed at Wahpeton facility and Fargo parking facilities Done and reduction plans Management of resources and pollutants Improvements in in-house transport processes 3/4 2015 Goal • Define eco-friendly products and technologies • Collect human rights violation cases • Improve the energy consumption measurement • Develop supplier network CSR guidelines • Select LCA targets and carry • Publish a manual on the establishment of a system • Improve the supplier CSR evaluation system Promotion of in-house paper recycling Done out the assessment human rights risk management system • Establish basic energy intensity Fair Operations Enhancement of suppliers CSR activities’ Addition of CSR performance in the supplier audit list and Done 2016 Goal • Establish midto long-term roadmap and • Implement human rights education for • Adopt an energy performance management • Develop supplier CSR support programs management process for eco-friendly products employees system survey regarding suppliers’ CSR performance Page 63p 69p 75p 81p CCI Systematic support for employees’ community involvement Development of performance management system Done 52 53 2014 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report 48 CSR MANAGEMENT SYSTEM & MANAGEMENT OVERVIEW 74 ESTABLISHMENT OF THE INTEGRATED EHS SYSTEM Our CSR Performance 62 ENHANCEMENT OF CUSTOMER VALUE AND QUALITY COMPETITIVENESS 80 MUTUAL GROWTH WITH OUR SUPPLIERS 68 EMPLOYEE VALUE PROPOSITION 85 SUPPORTING DEVELOPMENT OF LOCAL COMMUNITIES ACCOUNTABLE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE ACCOUNTABLE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE ACCOUNTABLE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE ••• Composition of Shareholders and Equity Protection of Minority Shareholders Composition of BOD Operation of the BOD As one of the key affiliates of Doosan Group, Doosan Doosan Infracore operates paper ballot and electronic voting The BOD of Doosan Infracore consists of two internal and The BOD deliberates, makes resolutions, and reviews key Infracore runs production and sales subsidiaries in more than systems to protect minority shareholders’ voting rights. five outside directors as of the end of March 2015. There are management decisions. It also decides on items specified 140 countries. As of the end of 2014, its shares outstanding When sending out notices of general shareholders’ meetings, three committees under the BOD: the Audit Committee, under the relevant national laws and company bylaws, amounted to 207,455,314, and its equity capital was KRW Doosan Infracore encloses paper ballots so shareholders can the Internal Transaction Committee, and the Outside Director basic business directions, and major issues regarding 1.0373 trillion. The largest shareholder was Doosan Heavy exercise their voting rights in absentia. Their votes are valid Candidates Committee. Internal directors are recommended the execution of business activities. It incorporates the Industries & Construction with a 36.40% stake, followed by provided they arrive at the company one day prior to the by the Board of Directors, whereas outside directors are opinions and suggestions of shareholders, executives and GIC (Government of Singapore investment Corporation). Its meeting day. recommended by the Outside Director Candidates Committee employees collected through shareholder meetings and top six overseas investors were all sovereign wealth funds in consultation with the Outside Director Candidates IR activities into its decisionmaking process. The board or national banks, indicating that the company has been Disclosure of Corporate Information Recommendation Consultation Committee. The company’s confirms and adjusts any interests by sharing information maintaining a stable shareholder base with a tendency Doosan Infracore complies with all applicable legal internal and outside directors are appointed by a general in advance. All directors are permitted to participate in the toward long-term investments. As of the end of 2014, foreign disclosure requirements. It does its best to maintain a shareholders’ meeting. The outside directors maintain BOD’s deliberations via telecommunication devices capable equity investment accounted for 23% of all investments in sound balance in its disclosure of information concerning its independence from majority/major shareholders. They are of transmitting audio and video data simultaneously, thus the company, attesting to foreign investors’ solid recognition financial and non-financial activities through the voluntary selected only after careful examinations are made of their confirming their attendance at a meeting. Directors may of the company as an investment target equipped with a revelation of its CP (Compliance Program) status and CSR possession of the company’s shares, potential conflict of not delegate their authority to a proxy. They maintain their continuous growth record and outstanding potential. activities. interest, and careers in the company’s rival companies as independence from major shareholders and executives. part of the company’s transparent governance structure and However, directors with a vested interest in a particular Communication with Shareholders and Investors Composition of the BOD and Decision-making Systems the enhancement of the BOD’s expertise. agenda item are prohibited from voting on it to guarantee Doosan Infracore management positively collects and Doosan Infracore raises its value and that of its shareholders transparency in the BOD decision-making process. incorporates the expectations and demands of shareholders, by implementing accountable and transparent management The Outside Director Candidates Recommendation investors, customers and other stakeholders into company practices. As the company’s highest business decisionConsultation Committee, which is composed of three decisions concerning investment and other major events. making body, the Board of Directors works on behalf of outsiders (Hwi-soo Lee, Ho-chul Yang and Jeong-hee Seo), It seeks to attract investments by proving its genuine investors and oversees and approves decisions on massive recommends candidates for outside directorships (no more corporate values in the global market in terms of growth investments or borrowings, consolidation or division of than twice the number of outside directors to be selected) potential, backed up by its technological competitive business entities, and other major business issues, from the to the Outside Director Candidates Committee according edge. To that end, Doosan Infracore sets up investorperspective of long-term growth. to relevant laws, the company’s bylaws and BOD friendly IR (investor relations) strategies and engages in regulations. The committee, which is composed entirely of shareholderfriendly communication. In 2014, it held four outside directors, selects three outside director candidates corporate orientation meetings and numerous IR meetings Status of Disclosure Activities to be approved at a general shareholders’ meeting. The BOD during securities investment conferences and NDRs in makes the final decision on the approval request for internal Europe, the USA, Hong Kong and Singapore as well as in Disclosure of provisional statistics on sales performance directors while the Outside Director Candidates Committee Korea. Furthermore, Doosan Infracore actively encourages Quarterly and biannual reports and statements of affairs does so for outside directors, although the BOD makes institutional investors to visit its worksites to obtain Disclosures relevant to annual and special shareholders’ meetings an official request for the approval of all the directors at a diverse, reliable information. Through frequent roundtable Disclosure of changes in the shareholding structure general shareholders’ meeting in due course. conferences between the CEO/CFO and investors, the Disclosure of current status of conglomerates released by the Korea Fair Trade Commission company listens intently to investors’ opinions. Current status of Compliance Program operations Disclosures of CSR activities including integrated reports Disclosure of information through company presentations Composition of BOD (As of the end of March 2015) Category Name Current Position / Role in the BOD 2014 BOD Attendance Remarks Internal Dongyoun Sohn President and CEO of Doosan Infracore Co., Ltd /Chairman of the Board Appointed on 03/27/2015 Intra-organizational Decision-making System Directors O-gyoo Lee President and Representative Director of Doosan Infracore Co., Ltd, Finance & Administration Division 100% Outside Tae-shin Kwon President of the Korea Economic Research Institute, chair of the Audit Committee, member of the Internal 83% Directors Transaction Committee, member of the Outside Director Candidates Committee BOD Seung-soo Han Special envoy of Secretary-General of UN, member of the Outside Director Candidates Committee Appointed on 03/27/2015 Jeung-hyun Yoon President of Yoon Economic Research Institute, member of the Internal Transaction Committee Appointed on 03/27/2015 Audit Committee (3 outside directors) Internal Transaction Committee (3 outside directors) Outside Director Candidates Committee (3 outside directors) Byongwon Bahk Chairman of the Korea Employers Federation, chair of the Outside Director Candidates Committee, memAppointed on 03/27/2015 ber of the Audit Committee Accounting audits, management Pre-review and approval of large-scale internal transactions Daeki Kim Outside director of SK Innovation, chair of the Internal Transaction Committee, member of the member of Appointed on 03/27/2015 performance audits, and inspection of internal (more than KRW 5 billion per case or per quarter), Recommendation of outside director candidates the Audit Committee accounting system operations and audits of internal transactions ※ Outside directors Jaehoon Lee and Sairee Yoon retired from their posts on March 27, 2015 upon the expiration of the term of office. ※ CEO Yongsung Kim of Doosan Infracore resigned on February 8, 2015. 54 55 2014 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report 48 CSR MANAGEMENT SYSTEM & MANAGEMENT OVERVIEW 74 ESTABLISHMENT OF THE INTEGRATED EHS SYSTEM Our CSR Performance 62 ENHANCEMENT OF CUSTOMER VALUE AND QUALITY COMPETITIVENESS 80 MUTUAL GROWTH WITH OUR SUPPLIERS 68 EMPLOYEE VALUE PROPOSITION 85 SUPPORTING DEVELOPMENT OF LOCAL COMMUNITIES ACCOUNTABLE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE TRANSPARENT AND ETHICAL MANAGEMENT ••• TRANSPARENT AND ETHICAL MANAGEMENT BOD Activities 2014 It also receives reports about the internal accounting Transparent and Ethical Management Directives written oath pledging not to engage in unethical business In 2014, six board meetings were held. Deliberation and management system from the internal accounting manager Doosan Infracore applies the Code of Conduct of Doosan practices before allowing them to be registered with the resolutions were made on 31 agenda items, including and reviews the information. As for business practices, Group to all of its business operations. Its major activities company as suppliers. To maintain a transparent ethical reports on management performance such as CSR activities the committee members can attend BOD meetings and such as ERP, e-Procurement, Internal Control and Evaluation, management system, the company asks each employee as follows. other important meetings, and, if necessary, receive and Fair Trade Compliance are directly linked to the Doosan in the relevant divisions to turn in a conflict of interest updates on management and business operations from Group system. This helps ensure all business activities are statement each year so it can fully assess employees’ BOD Committee Operations internal directors, and request additional reviews and conducted more transparently and with a greater level of conflicts of interest. The BOD runs the following three committees: the Audit documentation as required for proper auditing. The Audit work efficiency. In addition, the Audit Committee operates Committee, which is tasked with overseeing the Committee reports its independent evaluation results along under the Board of Directors, while the Audit Team is Ethical Management Training transparency and independence of all auditing processes; with its major activities at general shareholders’ meetings. tasked with promoting, evaluating and auditing transparent Training on the Code of Conduct helps raise employee the Internal Transaction Committee, which is responsible The chief executive officer discloses the information to and ethical management practices. awareness of ethical business practices and control the for promoting transparency in corporate management by the public. The members of the committee receive only ethical risks involved in their business transactions in establishing a framework for compliance with fair trade remuneration as directors. They receive no other types of Communicating and Promoting the Ethical Management advance. Doosan Infracore provides the training to all regulations; and the Outside Director Candidates compensation in order to secure their independence from Policy employees. Also, the company notifies its employees of Committee, which makes recommendations concerning management and majority shareholders. In 2013, Doosan Infracore revised its Code of Conduct in major ethical management issues and posts them on the outside director appointments at a general shareholders’ line with the Doosan Way declared earlier that year. In bulletin boards of each business site. To prevent unintended meeting. The committees are entirely composed of outside BOD Evaluation and Remuneration 2014, it published the new Code of Conduct and expanded problems during daily business conduct, the company directors. The remuneration of both internal and outside directors its application to overseas subsidiaries. In 2015, it plans publishes a White Book that contains ethical problems is determined within the limits for directors approved to produce localized codes of conduct for Europe and China discovered in regular audits or reported by employees. Activities of the Audit Committee at a general shareholders’ meeting. The company also that reflect the local rules and regulations in each region The book includes an analysis of the fundamental reasons The three outside directors of the Audit Committee implements a performance salary system that links and country. Following the review of its internal reporting for those ethical problems as well as solutions to similar supervise the company’s accounting and business practices. executive compensation with business performance. system, Doosan Infracore will launch its global code of problems, along with as much quantified data as possible. As regards accounting, the committee reviews accountingAccordingly, directors are given a basic salary corresponding conduct and internal reporting system by the end of 2015. The company continues paying particular attention to the related documents, including financial statements, and to their pay grade as well as a performance bonus based Through active promotion and onsite survey activities, cases mentioned in the book. In 2015, the company plans the accounting firm’s audit procedures and results. If on the organization’s management results. In 2014, a total among others, the company will make sure that full to implement customized training on the Code of Conduct necessary, it requests the accounting firm to conduct an of KRW 211 million was paid to outside directors. compliance with the code of conduct will be established as for executives, office workers (online), and technical staff. additional examination of the company’s accounting its organizational culture at all global worksites. It also plans to provide collective training to executives records and related documents, and checks the results. The company has worked out detailed rules for the Code of and persons in charge of the code of conduct in the USA, Conduct designed to promote proactive implementation and the United Kingdom, Belgium, India and China during the engagement. It posts the Code of Conduct on its website year. Currently, the company produces online educational BOD Activities along with information on how to report irregularities, to materials and makes them available for its overseas broaden the corporate consensus on ethical management. employees in six languages, including Korean, English, Date Agenda Items Attendance (Full Attendance) The CEO issues a letter around the time of major Korean French, Czech, Chinese and Vietnamese. Feb. 4, 2014 Approval of the 2013 Financial Statements and Business Report, and 6 other items. 4(4) holidays (when gifts are traditionally exchanged) to all Feb. 28, 2014 Approval of the Audit Report 2013 and the the restructuring of a corporation, and 8 other items. 3(4) Doosan Infracore employees and suppliers to ask for Apr. 24, 2014 2013 CP Operations Status and 2014 CO Operations Plan, and 3 other items. 3(3) their strict compliance with the Code of Conduct. Doosan July 29, 2014 Management Performance Report for 1H of 2013, and 2 other items. 3(3) Infracore requests new employees to sign a written oath Oct. 28, 2014 Report on Business Results for Q3 2013, and 2 other items. 2(3) pledging their compliance with the Code of Conduct. It Dec. 16, 2014 Delegation of the authority to issue bonds to the executive director, and 4 other items. 2(3) also requires new suppliers to submit a publicly notarized Activities of the Audit Committee Completion rate of ethical management training (Korea) Date Agenda Items Attendance (Full Attendance) Feb. 4, 2014 2013 Accounting Settlement Audit Report, and 4 other items. 3(3) Feb. 28, 2014 Approval of 2013 Audit Report, and 2 other items. 3(3) 2012 2013 2014 Apr. 24, 2014 Report on the Review of Accounting Settlement for 1Q 2014. 3(3) July 29, 2014 Report on the 1H2014 Internal Audit Results, and 1 other item. 3(3) 99.4% 99.3% 99.5% Oct. 28, 2014 Report on the Review of Accounting Settlement for 3Q 2014. 2(3) ※Reasons for absence: Long-term overseas business trips and leave of absence due to illness, childbirth, etc. 56 57 2014 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report 48 CSR MANAGEMENT SYSTEM & MANAGEMENT OVERVIEW 74 ESTABLISHMENT OF THE INTEGRATED EHS SYSTEM Our CSR Performance 62 ENHANCEMENT OF CUSTOMER VALUE AND QUALITY COMPETITIVENESS 80 MUTUAL GROWTH WITH OUR SUPPLIERS 68 EMPLOYEE VALUE PROPOSITION 85 SUPPORTING DEVELOPMENT OF LOCAL COMMUNITIES TRANSPARENT AND ETHICAL MANAGEMENT RISK MANAGEMENT ••• RISK MANAGEMENT Audit and Monitoring Enhanced Fair Trade Voluntary Compliance Program Risk Management System activities. Its non-business risks related to ethics, In line with increases in its business areas and the scope of Doosan Infracore continues to enhance its fair trade Doosan Infracore operates a risk management and reporting legal compliance, and reputation, are managed largely its responsibility resulting from the growth of its overseas voluntary compliance program (CP) by monitoring framework to respond to various risks that could reduce the through prevention efforts, including education on ethical businesses and adoption of the IFRS, since 2012, Doosan performance before and after the implementation of CP, company’s value and cause economic losses. Risk factors management. Most notably, Doosan Infracore implements Infracore has maintained audit teams in North America, expanding the rewards for excellent CP practices, updating are analyzed and managed with regard to the likelihood of mandatory annual online education about its ethical Europe and China. The audit team in Seoul respects the the CP handbook regularly, and cultivating CP experts in their occurrence and the impact they may have on the norms for all employees. This online education enhances subsidiaries’ responsible business management while each business group. In addition, the company provides company. It has established risk management processes by employees’ ethical standards while urging employees in striving to assess the actual state of their business and CP training not just to its employees but also to the staff which executives and working-level employees can detect higher positions, in particular, to implement the company’s secure transparency in their accounting practices. of its suppliers, including education on export and import any problematic symptoms early on and take prompt code of ethics faithfully. On its annual Doosan Way Day, the regulations, in an effort to motivate all its suppliers to remedial actions. company recognizes successful cases of improvement due Internal Controls Evaluation System implement the CP themselves. Since 2012, Doosan Infracore to the implementation of integrity and transparency, a core Since 2006, Doosan Infracore has operated an internal has reported the progress of its fair trade voluntary Risk Management Culture value advocated by the Doosan Way. Through such efforts, controls evaluation system for the entire range of its compliance program, including biannual education on fair To reduce its risks related to the company’s continuous the company promotes the companywide implementation business areas, including finance, sales, purchasing and trade and the results of monitoring of violations of any business expansion in various areas, Doosan Infracore of its culture of ethical management and prevents potential production operations. The results of regular evaluations rules and regulations to the BOD, and disclosed the results stresses risk management to its employees. The business risks from materializing. are reported to the audit committee and board meetings to the public. risks involved in its financial management and operations through the CFO and CEO in accordance with the Act on are managed companywide through the group-wide External Auditing of Corporations. In 2014, the company Enhancement of Compliance Management integrated risk management system coupled with the began applying the same internal controls evaluation Doosan Infracore has established a systematic and practical company’s internal control, including regular monitoring system to its subsidiaries in China before expanding the it compliance system and built a consensus among its to other areas around the world. employees on compliance management to implement an international level of compliance business management. Risk Management Processes Internal and External Reporting Systems Doosan Infracore was selected by the Korea Customs Doosan Infracore has internal and external reporting Service in 2013 as an AAA class (the highest class) company systems, including the Cyber Reporting Center, to facilitate from among other Authorized Economic Operator (AEO) the immediate reporting of any unethical acts. Items to be companies for the first time in the machine manufacturing Relevant internal and external stakeholders are informed of the risks that have occurred and the results of the company’s reported include all types of unethical acts such as bribery, industry. It was also designated as an AAA class (the Risk Reporting response to the risks according to its risk management procedures. Doosan Infracore continues communicating with its unfair business transactions and corruption; violations of highest class) company by the Korea Ministry of Trade, stakeholders through quarterly statements of affairs and annual integrated reports. the Doosan Way, Doosan Infracore’s Code of Conduct and Industry and Energy in 2014, the first year that the ministry laws; and other irregularities. It has expanded its internal adopted a ranking system in its designation of strategic reporting channels, which now include DooDream, the materials CP companies. Companies with the certifications Doosan group portal, email, telephone calls, are eligible for simpler administrative processes in export fax messages and personal visits for both its domestic custom clearance. The national recognition of their Phase 1 Phase 2 Phase 3 Phase 4 and overseas business sites. Any irregularities are strictly compliance management also helps the companies enhance Phase 5 sanctioned. The reporter’s identity remains confidential their corporate image in the market. Establishment of Risk Risk Recognition Risk Identification Risk Evaluation Risk Response as needed. Retaliation is strictly prohibited. Reports are Management Foundation acted on promptly according to applicable procedures. The Rate the identified risks Depending on the risk, company’s actions, including corrections, are provided to Establish strategies, orgaBuild a risk pool by Identify potential risk facaccording to the degree of divide required responses nizations and risk mandefining all uncertain risk tors and categorize them danger involved, taking the reporter and shared companywide, thereby serving to elements that might affect into appropriate areas. into companywide or agement systems, taking into account their intensity by functional measures. further raise ethical awareness among employees. into account the overall future management enviand frequency before anaLower the degree of danger business environments ronments. lyzing the required control through the distribution of and industry characterlevel and determining risk-specific manuals and istics to manage risks necessary management prevention education. efficiently. priority. Phase 6 The company has controlled risk by continuously checking for any changes in its Monitoring identified risk and regular reporting schemes. 58 59 2014 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report 48 CSR MANAGEMENT SYSTEM & MANAGEMENT OVERVIEW 74 ESTABLISHMENT OF THE INTEGRATED EHS SYSTEM Our CSR Performance 62 ENHANCEMENT OF CUSTOMER VALUE AND QUALITY COMPETITIVENESS 80 MUTUAL GROWTH WITH OUR SUPPLIERS 68 EMPLOYEE VALUE PROPOSITION 85 SUPPORTING DEVELOPMENT OF LOCAL COMMUNITIES RISK MANAGEMENT RISK MANAGEMENT ••• ••• Financial Risk Management regularly assesses the financial credit ratings of its business Non-Financial Risk Management Market risk: Exchange risks occur as a result of changes in counterparts and sets credit limits for them by taking into BCM (Business Continuity Management) System currency exchange rates, which may affect the forecasting account their financial status and track records. establishment and drills: In line with increasing social of future deals, perceived assets and liabilities, and net For credits for which default is anticipated at the end of the demand for crisis response systems, Doosan Group has investment in overseas operations. Since it is involved fiscal year, Doosan Infracore carefully assesses the risks established a framework known as the Business Continuity in numerous business activities internationally, Doosan involved and reflects the results in its consolidated financial Management (BCM) system at the group level. In February Infracore is exposed to foreign exchange rate fluctuation sheets.. 2014, Doosan Infracore formed its BCM TFT and began to risks. As such, the company’s basic strategies are to work on a manual for its companywide crisis response along reduce fluctuations in profits and losses due to changes in Liquidity risk: Liquidity risk largely arises from a shortage with action plans at the level of each of its business groups. foreign exchange rates. Doosan Infracore carries out hedge of liquidity. It materializes when a corporation fails to fulfill Doosan Infracore’s BCM manual is divided into a total of 20 trading through exports and imports. It partially manages its obligations to pay off financial debts or to finance its mandatory infrastructure arrangements for each business its foreign exchange rate fluctuation risks with derivatives. normal operations. To prevent such situations, the company group. The company has also developed a mobile BCM app Interest rate risks arise largely from adjustable rate loans. establishes three-month and annual financial balance that enables the leader of each unit to check the operation To preemptively deal with such risks, the company plans, which allow it to minimize the influence of business, of the BCM system and the safety of his/her members in minimizes external loans with its internal reserves, reduces investments and financial activities on the monetary balance. real time in the event of a crisis. In October 2014, each high interest rate loans, improves the longand short-term The forecasts help the company secure and maintain business group conducted a comprehensive crisis response borrowing structure, and monitors and responds to changes sufficient liquidity in preparation for possible liquidity risks drill in case of an earthquake and assessed its actual crisis in interest rates on a regular basis. In the meantime, since in the future. response readiness and capabilities. Doosan Infracore plans its financial instruments are exposed to the risk of changes to launch a companywide drill in 2015 to check its response in market prices that may negatively affect the fair value Capital risk: Capital risk management involves the capabilities for different situations. It will further develop its of the financial instruments and the company’s cash flow, maintenance of an optimum capital structure to protect the BCM system so all employees will be able to take part in the company measures risks arising from changes in prices company’s capabilities and thereby enable it to continue BCM fire drills more than once a year. regularly and manages key investment assets separately. providing its shareholders and other stakeholders with corporate profits while reducing the cost of capital. Credit risk: Credit risk arises from ordinary transactions or Doosan Infracore maintains its capital in alignment with investment activities when a customer or business partner its debt ratio. Specifically, it adjusts its dividend payouts does not follow the conditions of the relevant business to shareholders and repays capital reserves to maintain or BCM System agreements. It may also arise from cash, cashable assets, modify the capital structure, while issuing new shares and derivatives, and deposits in banks and other financial selling assets to reduce debts. Category Mandatory Infrastructure Remarks institutions. To manage its credit risks, Doosan Infracore Response organization and 1) Emergency business management team (HQ) • Emergency Command & Control Center reporting system 2) Emergency operation team (Business Area/Worksite) • Urgent operations, support for overseas operations 3) Emergency management team (Business Area/Worksite) • Worksite safety, closure, monitoring of 4) Situation identification and reporting surroundings, Help Desk operation People 5) Emergency notice, emergency communication • Sharing equipment and information in the areas of broadcasting, Key Risks and Relevant Responses 6) Emergency contact network satellite communication, etc. 7) Emergency evacuation • For all employees Key risks Responsive measures 8) Emergency relief • Shelters, guidance, post-evacuation actions Strategic risks Global economic recession Maximize short-term profitability and strengthen core competitiveness 9) Suppliers’ safety • Contacts, crisis notification and action guidelines Stricter environmental regulations on products Develop and apply eco-friendlier technologies Asset 10) Actions on top-priority documents/assets • Objects, contacts, action guidelines Financial risks Market risks Manage exchange rate fluctuations, interest rate and price risks 11) Disposal of documents to be discarded Credit risks Manage credit risks and minimize losses by implementing safeguard measures in bonds 12) Removal of dangerous materials Liquidity risks Establish quarterly and annual financial balance plans 13) Basic crisis response including firefighting Capital risks Reduce capital costs and manage liabilities 14) Protection of core fixed assets/worksites • Core asset protection plans in addition to civil defense plans Operational risks Quality risks Establish quality management system 15) Closure of worksites • HQ/Worksite closure procedures, check lists, contacts Ethical management and compliance risks Audit unethical irregularities, provide employees with ethical training 16) IT service suspension, cyber-terrorism response • Procedures for subsidiaries related to IT Risks related to personal information protection and Establish personal information protection guidelines, build an information management system, Operation 17) Contact with key stakeholders • Preparing a contact list for shareholders, customers, dealers data security and provide employees with information security training courses 18) Urgent transportation and storage of raw and and suppliers and appointing persons to contact them Environmental and natural Climate change risks Build a climate change response system subsidiary materials disaster risks Occupational safety and employee health risks Build a field manager-led EHS system, and manage the health and safety of employees 19) Emergency operation in the event of logistics Fire risks Voluntary fire safety management (Firefighting Center) paralysis in the Seoul metropolitan area Natural disasters Manage natural disaster risks and mitigate damages 20) Response to utility service suspension 60 61 2014 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report 48 CSR MANAGEMENT SYSTEM & MANAGEMENT OVERVIEW 74 ESTABLISHMENT OF THE INTEGRATED EHS SYSTEM Our CSR Performance 62 ENHANCEMENT OF CUSTOMER VALUE AND QUALITY COMPETITIVENESS 80 MUTUAL GROWTH WITH OUR SUPPLIERS 68 EMPLOYEE VALUE PROPOSITION 85 SUPPORTING DEVELOPMENT OF LOCAL COMMUNITIES S ENHANCEMENT OF CUSTOMER VALUE AND Shareholders / Investors OUR FOCUS Definition and Standard Establishment for Eco-friendly Products : Recently, reductions in fuel conQUALIT Y COMPETITIVENESS sumption and contributions to the protection of air quality have become important competition factors in the construction equipment industry. Doosan Infracore has selected the enhancement of E C O F R I E NDLY its eco-friendly products/technologies as a major implementation task and is about to establish PRODU C TS its own standards for eco-friendly products/technologies through companywide discussions. The company will further upgrade the fuel efficiency of its products based on its proprietary technolRI S K AND CH ALLE NGE ogies, enhance its product portfolio fulfilling the increasingly stringent emission regulations in Customers / Dealers many countries, and publicize its efforts in this area to customers more effectively. The commitAs the company’s business grows and its business areas exment of Doosan Infracore to enhancing its line of eco-friendly products is a pledge to securing a pand, changes in its business environments are accelerating, sustainable future of humankind. while related technologies continue to develop at an incredible 2015 TARGET speed. Customer demands are also expanding from good quality and reasonable prices to convenienceand value-centered Define eco-friendly products and Select LCA targets and carry out consumption. Therefore, building brand values that are easily technologies the assessment recognized by customers based on advanced technologies and Employees excellent quality is an essential prerequisite for every company seeking to become a sustainable entity. OUR APPROACH CONTINUOUS INNOVATION OF PRODUCTS Securing a Global Quality Management System AND TECHNOLOGIES Establishment of a global quality network: To deliver cusQuality management at Doosan Infracore begins with design tomer opinions from overseas markets such as the USA with care and elaborate assembly. Doosan Infracore values a Suppliers Doosan Infracore is gearing up for another leap forward as and Europe to manufacturing plants in Korea more quickly strong engineering culture that concentrates on fundamental competitiveness and believes that its future directions lie with soon as the global economy recovers by securing fundamenand precisely, the Quality Center of the Operations Division the voice of the customer (VOC). It is committed to introductal competitiveness on the basis of continuous technical intakes the lead in monitoring diverse quality issues that arise ing products equipped with quality competitiveness through novation. Most notably, Doosan Infracore thoroughly checks around the world. The company also runs regular commucontinuous R&D investments and innovations in its products whether the quality goal set for each product development nication channels between overseas service personnel and Local Communities Cold Trip, cold weather test in China and technologies from a customer perspective. It is doing its stage has been met in an effort to enhance its product qualthose in charge of service and quality in Korea. Furthermore, best to protect customers’ personal information. It strives to ity competitiveness. It has also improved its VOC handling it has expanded its hotline system previously operational promote fair marketing around the world. Doosan Infracore is processes to reflect customer opinions more quickly and only in Korea to its overseas markets so key quality issues taking powerful strides to join the ranks of the global top 3 accurately. can be directly reported to the CEO. machine manufacturing companies. Central / Local Government PER F O R M A N C E CH ART Improvement of Quality Management Systems Establishment of a global standard system: Doosan Infracore Establishment of organizations devoted to quality innovation: is building a global standard system with the aim of improvTo enhance synergy between organizations and functions ing customer trust in Doosan Infracore brands through globContinuous Innovation of Products and Customer Communication 5 Fair Marketing 4 6 required for quality innovation, Doosan Infracore has estabally standardized product quality. It is standardizing its work Technologies 1 2 3 lished the Quality Innovation Part under the Heavy Quality Asprocesses to spread a corporate culture in which its employsurance Team. The Quality Innovation Part is tasked with proees strive to meet global standards in their work practices issu e 201 4 target 2014 pe r f o rm an ce a chi e ve 2 0 15 pl a n moting TQM1) and analyzing TMS2) quality data to accelerate and deliver Doosan Infracore products of the highest quality 1 Product/Technology Establishment of the Launch of the Global R&D Center Development and launch of products quality improvement activities from a customer perspective through integration of the production, quality and purchase Media Innovation Integrated R&D Center Completion of R&D centers in the USA and the responding to global restrictions Czech Republic and to promote the improvement of quality processes. processes. By 2016, it plans to complete all production-relatImprovements related to Initial quality: 43% improvement (91dptu, Korea) Initial quality: 85dptu (Korea) ed standardization projects. The company is also engaged in complaints about initial quality Guaranteed quality: 25% improvement (1,929dptu, Guaranteed quality: 1600dptu (Korea) 1) TQM (Total Quality Management): Efforts to improve the quality of products and guaranteed quality Korea) and services through companywide quality management (Six Sigma, etc.). the establishment of the Doosan Production System (DPS), a 2 Eco-friendly Products New Launch of new products that meet emission Define eco-friendly products and technologies 2) TMS (Telematics System): Telematics is a blend of telecommunication and standard for the operation of manufacturing plants. In 2015, informatics. It refers to the delivery of services associated with GPS, Internet regulations Select LCA targets and carry out the assessment Doosan Infracore will develop educational materials for each access, remote vehicle diagnostics and accident detection among others to mobile devices through telecommunications and broadcast networks via module’s basic concept and direction. It is scheduled to 3 Customer Safety/Health Enhancement of emotional Compliance with international safety standards and Compliance with international safety standards mobile devices. quality release of safety information publish manuals based on success stories, too, while estabImprovements in the release of safety information / Operation of QMS: To maintain its quality competitiveness as lishing evaluation systems. In the area of purchase, the comLaunch of low-noise product C Model Protection of customer rights Devising of policy to protect Bobcat online store Monitoring and roll-out of private information a leading global corporation, Doosan Infracore has adopted pany has already developed the Doosan Supplier Excellency 4 Customer Information Protection and interests customer information a Quality Management System (QMS) and continuously reProgram (DSEP), a global standard designed to enhance its defined and standardized its quality-related work processes. supplier capabilities, and begun to apply it to five compa5 Customer Enhancement of VOC Customer satisfaction surveys VOC-based quality innovations Communication management Korea: 93.5% China: 95% For the automatic collection and analysis of quality data, the nies in Korea and three in China. 6 Fair Marketing Prevention of violations in No violations Prevention of violations with regard to company has established a core business intelligence system marketing communication marketing communication and is expanding the scope of its application through a geo* Dptu(Defects per thousand unit): The average number of defects observed in a thousand machine tools, which Doosan Infracore company uses as its customer quality satisfaction index graphical extension of its quality issue management system. S In addition, the company is running innovation academy : Influential stakeholders in each area programs to upgrade the professional competency of perFU T U R E D IR EC T I ON sonnel responsible for quality issues. It has also built a manContinuous quality innovation by Preemptive response to enviImprovements of customer safety Enhancement of customer trust agement system that enables its technical staff to fully take enhancing R&D capabilities and ronmental regulations and developand convenience through the through transparent information over core technologies from their predecessors. The company improving quality from a customer ment of products that boost the development of products from the disclosure and reinforced customer implemented its QMS evaluation in Korea, China and Norway perspective. Earth’s value. customer’s perspective. privacy protection. in 2014. 62 63 2014 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report 48 CSR MANAGEMENT SYSTEM & MANAGEMENT OVERVIEW 74 ESTABLISHMENT OF THE INTEGRATED EHS SYSTEM Our CSR Performance 62 ENHANCEMENT OF CUSTOMER VALUE AND QUALITY COMPETITIVENESS 80 MUTUAL GROWTH WITH OUR SUPPLIERS 68 EMPLOYEE VALUE PROPOSITION 85 SUPPORTING DEVELOPMENT OF LOCAL COMMUNITIES Enhancement of R&D Capabilities Product Development Considering Customer Safety Development of eco-friendly products Continuous Quality Innovation Expansion of R&D bases: In July 2014, Doosan Infracore comDoosan Infracore is committed to developing products that Doosan Infracore is concentrating on boosting its busiProduction of defect-free products: To minimize defects at R&D is pleted the Global R&D Center in Incheon, Korea, to gather all are safer and healthier for consumers to use and which our Focus ness competency through the development of a range of the production level, Doosan Infracore carries out various Support for its R&D personnel from across the country in one place to deliver excellent performance and operational efficiency next-generation products, including eco-friendly engines and innovation activities, such as the prevention of corrosion in Enhancement of 14p Suppliers’ Product generate synergy. The company also opened the Acceleration throughout its entire product development process. Doosan high-fuel-efficiency technologies. It is also striving to enhance canning parts, improvements in the cleanliness of hydraulic Competitiveness Center in the USA in August and the Innovation Center in Infracore’s commitment to enhancing the emotional quality its fundamental competitiveness by establishing systems parts, upgrades in the precision of cuts, and standardization 82p Dobris, Czech Republic, in September. It subsequently defor customers is reflected in every single process of its prodthat cater to customer needs, while simultaneously meeting of welding. The company also strives to prevent its suppliers clared the dawn of a new global technological development uct development. the increasingly strict environmental regulations. At present, from producing defective parts in the first place by impleera based on collaboration with overseas research organizathe machines of Doosan Infracore boast high levels of fuel menting various preemptive measures such as the promotion tions in the USA, China, the Czech Republic and Norway. To Compliance with international safety standards: At the prodefficiency and work performance in their respective classes. of 3P6S*, improvements of outgoing inspection systems, enenhance its technological development capabilities, Doosan uct planning stage, Doosan Infracore carefully examines varThe company is on the verge of launching next-generation hancement of testing power during test runs, and by making Infracore is increasing the ratio of core personnel involved in ious countries’ technical regulations as well as international machines whose durability has improved significantly. In Chiconcerted efforts to improve quality at the initial marketing product development to that of global market leaders in the standards in such areas as GHG emissions, fire, explosion, na, the company attaches smart labeling to high-fuel-efficient stage. developed world. It has also secured robust design capabilinoise, operator field of vision, vehicle rollover, electromagengines, and is making significant improvements to fuel effi* 3P6S: Activities associated with the three P’s (Proper Items, Proper Quantity, Proper Place) and the six S’s (Safety, Sort, Straighten, Shine, Standardize, ties through the use of diverse techniques and tools. netic waves, and toxic chemicals before drawing up plans to ciency and total exhaust emissions. Sustain). develop products and verify performance. Doosan Infracore NPD process: To make quality innovation at the product decurrently reflects major key technical regulations, such as D-ECOPOWER: Doosan Infracore has embarked on the mass Enhancement of key parts quality: Doosan Infracore is also velopment stage, Doosan Infracore has built the NPD (New the “Rules on Safety Standards for Construction Equipment” production of its engines equipped with D-ECOPOWER, an concentrating on the development of key parts to supply Product Development) 4.0 Process on the basis of regulaof Korea; the Machinery Directive of Europe; OSHA (Occupaeco-friendly high-fuel-efficiency technology. D-ECOPOWER is custom-tailored products to its customers. Through contions, safety and quality. The NPD process is designed to retional Safety and Health Administration) and MSHA (Mine Doosan Infracore’s creative proprietary technology that imtinuous quality management, Doosan Infracore’s worksites flect the VOC starting from the product planning and design Safety and Health Administration) of the USA; and the GB proves fuel efficiency via the electronic control of hydraulic in Korea and China made improvements in terms of the Think Green, stages. It is promoted not only by the R&D department, but Standard of China in its product development plans. In pumps. The nine sensors installed on the system calculate percentage of major defective parts in 2014. In 2014, the Make Green also through collaboration with other departments like the China, our products are developed for the country according the amount of oil and operational power required to opercompany made concerted efforts to improve the quality of 42p NPD quality, sales strategy and marketing teams. The proto European standards that emphasize operator safety and ate excavators. Controlled by hydraulic pumps, the sensors its suppliers’ products. A total of 47 suppliers participated cess is also being applied in China and the USA. In 2014, the convenience. Products developed for the Korean market supply only the required amount of fuel to the equipment in the campaign. The Incheon Plant demonstrated a 49.6% company promoted the sharing of the NPD process in Euare adjusted to meet Chinese regulations at the production during operation, thereby raising operational efficiency and improvement rate in its process quality over 2013. The Parts rope. In addition to the NPD process, the company plans to stage. reducing fuel consumption sharply. So far, D-ECOPOWER has Quality Innovation 320 Campaign is a part of the quality make improvements to product/technology roadmaps for the been applied to 34and 38-ton excavators. Compared with management of products and parts received from suppliers. USA. The C model, launched in the Chinese market in 2014, Boosting product safety: At the design stage, Doosan Inprevious products, the model reduces fuel consumption by is the brainchild of the NPD process, which promotes the fracore prevents problems from occurring by systematical12% and improves operability by 20%, thus enhancing fuel Extension of warranty periods for key parts: For equipment reflection of customer evaluations during their trial operation ly reflecting customer demands. It endeavors to ensure efficiency by more than 20%. Doosan Infracore plans to apsold in the Chinese markets, Doosan Infracore implements of the model in the middle stage of product development, high-quality products are developed by checking whether a ply the D-ECOPOWER technology to its lineup of large excaa quality warranty system valid for either 1 year/limitless or ultimately enabling it to roll out better products than comproduct has been designed according to the predetermined vators weighing 40 tons or above. 2 years/3,000 hours. From 2014, the company extended the petitors. product development goals. During the final verification warranty period to 3 years/6,000 hours for seven key parts stage, the company not only has product performance tested C Model: In October 2014, Doosan Infracore began mass-proout of a sense of pride in and responsibility for the products R&D Direction: The Corporate R&D Division is making great and verified by licensed external institutions, but also continducing its 34-, 38-, 42and 50-ton C model excavators, all whose quality it had improved. strides in its R&D activities aimed at securing differentiated ues to improve product quality through additional voluntary of which are equipped with engines that meet the Tier 3 technological capabilities and establishing advanced engitests, including product performance tests. exhaust emission regulations due to take effect in China in neering processes. The Construction Equipment and Engine 2016. C model excavators reduce fuel consumption by 20% Business Areas are striving for improvements in product due to the application of the latest eco-friendly technologies. operability and convenience, the development of highly profMost notably, 38-ton excavators conserve fuel by an addiitable products for the mining and forestry industries, and tional 10%. In 2015, the company plans to start the mass the development of new technologies to boost fuel efficiency production of low-noise machines in response to increasingly of the company’s products. In the area of research for mastrict noise standards. chine tools, the division is focusing on the development of super-precise, super-fast and high-strength machine tools by drawing on sophisticated electronic control technologies. Reductions in Customer Complaint Rates 2014 Improvements 2015 Targets Initial Quality1) Const. equip/Korea 43% 6.6% Const. equip/China 18% 6.3% Warranted Quality2) Const. equip/Korea 25% 17.1% Const. equip/China 16% 15.6% Incheon Global R&D Center, a companywide 1) Initial Quality (IQ): The number of defects that have happened in operation within a certain period of initial product delivery divided by the number of units under warranty and multiplied by a hub for global R&D functions factor of 1000(The number of field defects that have occurred within a certain period time of initial product delivery / the number of units under warranty) x 1000 2) Warranted Quality (WQ): The number of defects that have happened in operation during the product warranty period divided by the number of units under warranty and multiplied by a factor of 1000(The number of field defects during the product warranty period / the number of units under warranty) x 1000 64 65 2014 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report 48 CSR MANAGEMENT SYSTEM & MANAGEMENT OVERVIEW 74 ESTABLISHMENT OF THE INTEGRATED EHS SYSTEM Our CSR Performance 62 ENHANCEMENT OF CUSTOMER VALUE AND QUALITY COMPETITIVENESS 80 MUTUAL GROWTH WITH OUR SUPPLIERS 68 EMPLOYEE VALUE PROPOSITION 85 SUPPORTING DEVELOPMENT OF LOCAL COMMUNITIES CUSTOMER COMMUNICATION VOC Reflection System FAIR MARKETING Enhanced Customer Data Security Established in 2012, the Data Security Team ensures compaKOREA OVERSEAS The Operations Division of Doosan Infracore administers the Doosan Infracore abides by the laws pertaining to sales, nywide personal information security. In June 2013, Doosan quality innovations of the company’s construction equipment marketing and information security, and was not subject to Group prepared standards for employee information security sector under the slogan of “Customer First, Quality First, I VOC received by Call Center VOC received by dealers any legal sanctions due to exaggerated or false claims in management and has enforced them ever since. Encryption Act First,” in an effort to advance its organizational culture. advertisements in 2014. of personal information has been completed. ComprehenPS measures and input Overseas subsidiaries/PS input This means the company believes the customer should be sive monitoring is conducted to detect suspicious behaviors its highest value and quality its top priority throughout the Responsible Marketing Directions regarding the leakage or misuse of data. Doosan Infracore entirety of its business performance. It is also a reflection of Sensing point ERP registration Doosan Infracore’s marketing direction specifies its unique makes sure all employees receive training on information the company’s strong commitment to realizing customer-cenbrand guidelines that serve as the criteria for its advertising, security, while additional systematic training and guidelines Claim judgment tered values, the key mandate of the Doosan Way. sales promotion and marketing communication activities. In are provided to personnel who work in departments dealing Claim data finalization addition, it has set warranty periods for its machines and with personal data. Training is also provided at delivery Enhancement of Customer Satisfaction Assign-weighted value accordingly repairs any defective machines as early as poscompanies, training centers and other outsourced service VOC management (reflection of customer opinions): Firm in sible. The company has also established recall processes providers that handle personal data. Access to the system the conviction that ‘answers lie in the VOC,’ the highly qualand service directions in this regard. To promote sustainable is also subject to continuous monitoring. In China, Doosan ified technical personnel of Doosan Infracore visit its major Notification of and sharing with consumption on the part of its customers, Doosan InfraInfracore integrated the customer information managed Management of major claims customers at least once a quarter and listen to them carerelevant departments core provides information on effective eco-friendly usage, by each dealer and checked dealer methods of collecting fully. The company runs the VOC Center, which resolve cusproper disposal and environmental impacts of its products customer information in 2014. Now, customer information tomers’ issues as quickly as possible in all of its business Standardization of post-sales product management service to customers. In the USA, Bobcat Company is considering is managed through Doosim, an information management sites around the world. Specifically, it holds VOC Meetings activities: Doosan Infracore promotes its product managedisclosing the environmental impacts of its products and system. Furthermore, all those in charge of customer inforto share the customers’ voice with its major suppliers on a ment activities with the aim of raising product values based their use. mation at dealerships and all Doosan Infracore employees regular basis, which offers the participants opportunities to on trust with customers in the midto long-term. To offer its underwent training on information security and managecarefully analyze and resolve customers’ issues as well as customers attractive customer service, it is promoting 4-One Product Labeling for Customer Safety ment in 2014. In the USA, Bobcat Company’s online store their outright demands for improvement. Doosan Infracore Service (One Hour Contact, One Day Repair, One Touch With respect to various measures related to product liability implemented a new policy regarding customer information also implements the NPD process to reflect customers’ voicRepair, One Plus Service) as well as the standardization and safety, Doosan Infracore stipulates the scope of funccollected and posted on the website. Doosan Infracore has es in the product development stage. of service activities to upgrade its basic service level and tional duties and the methods of promotion throughout the never been sanctioned for a leakage of personal data or a the quality of its customer service. It provides its service entire product lifecycle from design to sales to after-sales violation of the relevant laws during the past three years. Management of customer satisfaction: The results of the personnel with change management training twice a year. service. To ensure the correct and safe operation and maincompany’s after-sales services in Korea and China are reDoosan Infracore published guidelines on customer service tenance of its equipment and machine tools, Doosan Infraported to customers through the Happy Calls service, while and occupational safety in 2011. It selects service specialists core provides safety labels of three levels danger, warning, customer satisfaction surveys are conducted about the relfrom among service personnel with outstanding technical and caution according to the severity of the risks involved. evant services. The company tries to maintain its customer backgrounds through a multi-faceted evaluation process. In It places the key content of which customers must be aware satisfaction score above 4.5 points on a 5-point scale. The China, the company has set the target of service completion at the beginning of its product manuals to emphasize the survey results are shared with the relevant departments, within seven days of service requests: More than 70% of importance of the information. Doosan Infracore produces particularly sales and marketing. Happy Calls related to service requests meet the target. The company has promotsafety labels to be attached to construction equipment acimprovements in product quality and commercial values are ed service standardization since 2011 to narrow the service cording to ISO 9244, while following ISO 6750 for the opregistered as the VOC and reflected in the company’s future gap between dealers involved in customer contact services. erator manuals that are supplied with its products. In China, improvement efforts. In China, the company analyzes its To provide better customer service, the company has recomthe company includes information on potentially dangerous monthly customer satisfaction scores and decides which immended that its dealers be equipped with a level of ability situations that might be caused by customer negligence provements to make. The Happy Call scores are managed as comparable to that specified in ISO 9000, an international along with preventive measures in its product manuals. a Key Performance Indicator. In addition, Doosan Infracore quality standard, since 2014. Some dealers have obtained * Doosan Infracore complies with various customer safety standards, implements the Doosan Cares service, through which exISO 9001 certification. including European Safety Standards, China Safety Standards, and The Product Liability Act of Korea. It is also implementing various perts provide special customers with concentrated customer preventive measures. service. The company carries out five preventive inspections and listens to the VOC intently during warranty periods. In the USA, Bobcat Company is currently upgrading its emViolation of laws related to marketing communications ployee training programs to further enhance customer satisfaction. Once completed, the programs will help employees offer better customer service to customers. 0 (case) L AU N C H I N G T H E E C O C O R N E R Doosan Infracore has built the Eco Corner, a space where customers who own Doosan excavators can repair their equipment by themselves at the Chungju Branch Office under the Chungbuk General Sales Subsidiary, thus offering the first such service in Korea. Customers can freely use professional tools that individuals find hard to come by, and seek technical advice about more efficient maintenance of their equipment from repair experts stationed at the branch. Furthermore, customers can buy simple parts or receive light repair services at the Eco Corner instead of traveling to maintenance centers. This increases customer satisfaction with Doosan products in the area. The Eco Cor0 0 0 ner is also expected to function as a customer contact point that brings Doosan Infracore much closer to its customers. In a bid to further expand its range of customer benefits, Doosan Infracore is planning to offer active supportive measures to sales subsidiaries that open up 2012 2013 2014 their own Eco Corners. 66 67 2014 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report 48 CSR MANAGEMENT SYSTEM & MANAGEMENT OVERVIEW 74 ESTABLISHMENT OF THE INTEGRATED EHS SYSTEM Our CSR Performance 62 ENHANCEMENT OF CUSTOMER VALUE AND QUALITY COMPETITIVENESS 80 MUTUAL GROWTH WITH OUR SUPPLIERS 68 EMPLOYEE VALUE PROPOSITION 85 SUPPORTING DEVELOPMENT OF LOCAL COMMUNITIES S Shareholders / Investors EMPLOYEE VALUE PROPOSITION OUR FOCUS Establishment of a Human Rights Risk Management System: Corporate human rights violations are on the rise not just in Korea but across the world. Doosan Infracore has selected the establishment of a human rights risk management system as one of its major CSR tasks to fulfill its responsibilRE S PE CT FO R H U M A N ities for employees and have them internalize the Doosan Way as a responsible global corporate RI G H TS citizen. RI S K AND CH ALLE NGE Customers / Dealers Generally speaking, employees mirror the culture of the companies that employ them. Thus, management efficiency increases in pleasant workplaces, and good ideas 2015 TARGET flow freely in open-minded workplaces where employees respect one another. Changes in business circumstances Publish a manual on the establishment of Collect human rights violation cases are accepted as new challenges by companies armed with a human rights risk management system an organizational culture that values fair HR management, Employees the cultivation of experts, open communication, and are considerate enough to care for the welfare of employees. OUR APPROACH RESPECT FOR HUMAN RIGHTS AND Protection of Employees’ Diversity PROTECTION OF DIVERSITY Doosan Infracore considers its 14,518 employees across the The fundamental competitiveness of Doosan Infracore beworld to be the driving force behind its growth and develSuppliers gins with its people. Doosan Infracore pursues an organiDoosan Infracore favors strong teamwork based on the prinopment. As of the end of 2014, the company employed 5,740 zational culture that promotes mutual respect and shared ciples of fairness and caring. The company strives to build Doosan people in Korea and 8,778 overseas. Doosan’s emgrowth between the company and its employees on the basis of the Doosan Way. The company seeks to cultivate a corporate culture whereby the company selects, assigns, ployees in Korea include 5,399 full-time employees (94.3%) enterprising professional personnel who take the lead in evaluates and cultivates talent according to reasonable and 341 temporary workers (5.7%). Doosan Infracore has its global operations through the implementation of its criteria and principles, while employees are able to present continued to increase the ratio of female employees through Local Communities functional competencies (FC) system, which takes into their diverse opinions freely and communicate with one job analysis and job assignment aimed at maximizing their account each individual’s traits and capabilities. In addianother in an open and reflective manner. capabilities and merits at work. The company plans to imThe Doosan Way, Doosan’s unique traits and values tion, in an effort to further develop the company into an plement education and training for outstanding female emneeded to build a Proud Global Doosan organization of high-caliber yet caring people, Doosan Respect for Human Rights ployees, and will do its utmost to increase the proportion of Infracore does its best to offer fair opportunities to all Based on the Doosan Way, Doosan Infracore shares its Code female managers in keeping with the rising ratio of female Central / Local Government its employees, to promote family-friendly business manof Conduct – which consists of Inhwa, Integrity and Transparemployees among its new recruits year after year. agement, and to deliver diverse welfare benefits to its ency, Fair Competition, Focus on Our Customers, Innovation, employees and their family members. Growth, and Community Development, Safety and the EnviEMPLOYMENT AND EMPLOYEE RELATIONS ronment with all employees at numerous worksites around PER F O R M A N C E CH ART the world. The company not only urges its employees to Doosan Infracore complies with the conventions adopted rigorously follow the Code of Conduct as the guiding prinby the International Labor Organization (ILO)*. As a memciples of their business activities, but also strongly recomber of the UN Global Compact, the company supports the Respect for Human Rights Employment and Establishment of mends its suppliers to comply with the code. As declared in Compact’s 10 Principles and accordingly prohibits discrimiImplementation of HR Enhancement of Media and Protection Employment Win-Win Management 4 HR Development 5 the Doosan Way and the Doosan Code of Conduct, Doosan nation, child labor and forced labor, and fully supports emof Diversity 1 2 Relations 3 Labor Relations 6 people respect each individual’s unique characteristics. They ployees’ freedom of association. are never subject to discriminatory treatment in employment, * Compliance with ILO (International Labor Organization) standards: Doosan issu e 201 4 tar get 2 0 14 pe r f o rm an ce a chi e ve 2 0 15 pl a n evaluation and compensation on the grounds of gender, Infracore complies with the international labor standards of the ILO, respects freedom of association, and supports the ILO’s policies for ending 1 Respect for human rights Establishment of an educational Completion of the establishment of an Collect human rights violation cases religion, disability, age, social status, regional background, unfair discrimination among workers, child labor, and forced/compulsory system for ethical management educational system for ethical management Publish a manual on the establishment of labor in all of its worksites around the world. nationality, ethnic background, physical condition, marital a human rights risk management system 2 Protection of diversity Expansion of Women Council Establishment of a plan for companywide Companywide operation of Women Council status, pregnancy/childbirth, family type or status, race, skin implementation color, ideology or political convictions, sexual orientation, Improvement of Employment Relations Launch of R&D Division’s Women Council educational background, medical history, or any other legally Extension of the retirement age: Due to rapid population Phase 2 3 Improvement of Orientation meetings for all employees Implementation of retirement age extension Continued implementation of retirement age protected status. The company does not tolerate inapproaging, Korea is experiencing an increasing need for social employment relations about the extension of the retirement age extension priate language or acts such as verbal abuse, violence or stability based on the financial stability of retirees during 4 Implementation of familyEncouragement of participation in Expanded operation of systems related to Introduction of comprehensive system related sexual harassment, which harm the company’s spirit of Intheir post-retirement lives and the provision of continuous friendly management the family-friendly system childbirth and child-rearing to maternity protection 5 Enhancement of job Construction of an FC system and Establishment of an FC-oriented vocational Establishment of an FC-based knowledge sharhwa. It never treats its employees unfairly on the grounds of employment opportunities for them. As such, extending the competencies institutionalization of support measures training system ing system personal connections between executives and staff members, retirement age has emerged as a pressing social issue in 6 Establishment of a Support for enhancement of fundaOperation of regular dialog channels Enhancement of worksite competitiveness through such as academic or regional backgrounds. Doosan Infracore Korea. Following an amendment of the relevant law in 2013, win-win labor culture mental worksite competitiveness the maintenance of win-win labor relations S carries out a CSR assessment for each of its worksites every workers’ retirement age will extend to 60 in Korea effec: Influential stakeholders in each area year to find out about any child labor and/or forced labor. tive January 1, 2016. Doosan Infracore voluntarily extended FU T U R E D IR EC T I ON The 2014 assessment results showed there was no child laits employees’ retirement age to 60 in 2014, not just to bor or forced labor used by the company. fulfill employee requests, but also to lead the way in the Creation of a corporate culture Cultivation of enterprising Establishment of a workplace Increase of opportunities for country’s efforts to improve worker welfare. The wage peak that encourages employees professional leaders who suit that cherishes the work-life balvoluntary participation in to care for one another and Doosan’s new corporate status ance and earns the pride of its management as a company that system goes into effect starting from the end of the quarrespect diversity. as a leading global company. employees and their families. values open communication. ter when employees reach the age of 58 to the end of the quarter when they turn 60. During this period, their annual pay reduces gradually, but never falls below 70% of their 68 69 2014 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report 48 CSR MANAGEMENT SYSTEM & MANAGEMENT OVERVIEW 74 ESTABLISHMENT OF THE INTEGRATED EHS SYSTEM Our CSR Performance 62 ENHANCEMENT OF CUSTOMER VALUE AND QUALITY COMPETITIVENESS 80 MUTUAL GROWTH WITH OUR SUPPLIERS 68 EMPLOYEE VALUE PROPOSITION 85 SUPPORTING DEVELOPMENT OF LOCAL COMMUNITIES peak annual wages. The company has switched the employFair Performance Evaluation and Compensation colleagues by obtaining approval from their supervisors. Grievance Settlement Process: To resolve employee grievee retirement pension plan to a defined contribution (DC) The Doosan Infracore employee competency assessment Thus, employees may be able to tailor their work schedules ances, Doosan Infracore has secured diverse channels such plan so employees don’t suffer any loss in the calculation of is conducted in an objective and fair manner according to to their personal circumstances. as its employee intranet, DooDream, and an anonymitheir retirement pensions following the implementation of the concept of the ideal Doosan employee. The assessment ty-guaranteed messenger service (via the Maskchat app). It the wage peak system. identifies both individual strengths and areas that require Family-friendly Management Policy: Doosan Infracore abides also runs the Grievance Settlement Committee. Since 2011, further development, according to which the appropriate by the labor regulations of all the countries in which it opthe company has run the Gender Equity Center to cope with Compliance with Labor Policies: Doosan Infracore has signed opportunities for growth and development are duly providerates. It runs a leave of absence system according to the any potential cases of sexual harassment and verbal or an agreement on Guidelines on the Provision of Good Worked. The company’s well-established personnel management relevant laws. More importantly, it is doing its best to enphysical violence, and takes immediate action to deal with ing Conditions for In-house Subcontract Workers with the system visibly reflects in its performance assessments the able employees to maintain a balance between career and such matters in Korea. In addition to grievance settlement, Korea Ministry of Labor and Employment and the Supporters growth of the individual in step with the Doosan Way. Perfamily through the implementation of an extensive childthe center provides sexual harassment prevention education for Improvements in In-house Subcontract Workers’ Working formance assessment is carried out according to the MBO care leave of absence system, reductions in working hours, for all employees. Cases filed with the Grievance Settlement Conditions. It makes sure the relevant laws are complied (Management By Objective) methodology. Employees and and the adoption of a special leave of absence employees Committee and the Gender Equity Center are kept confidenwith through regular scrutiny. The company also promotes their supervisors engage in a one-on-one evaluation and a can use to care for any of their adult family members in tial. The company also uses the data to work out improvefair in-house subcontract practices through its voluntary feedback discussion. This approach improves the employneed. ments by analyzing underlying causes and publishing White compliance with the government’s guidelines on fair transee’s acceptance of the results and makes the link between Papers to prevent similar problems from recurring. The actions. performance and pay more transparent. Enhanced Communication company has successfully acted on all major reports filed in Doosan Infracore has established diverse communication 2014. Reassignment of Idle Labor Work-life Balance channels to boost employees’ satisfaction with their work Due to the global recession, Doosan Infracore was faced Doosan Infracore maintains a flexible attitude when it comes through enhanced communication with their fellow emUpgrading the Culture of Meetings: To advance and innovate with the issue of idle labor as a result of the reduced workto the adjustment of its employees’ work schedules as reployees. The company also actively supports employees’ its work practices, Doosan Infracore has assigned a Senior load in some of the business groups concerned. Thus, the quired for them to balance their service to the company and in-house club activities to promote fellowship as well as Facilitator to each department and launched the Meeting Doosan Way Time, company implemented collective annual leaves and paid their need for private time. To help them improve their qualcommunication among them. It also continues to promote Operation Improvement Course. Furthermore, to improve All the time vacations or put them on Employment Maintenance Training. ity of life, the company operates diverse employee benefit employees’ direct communication with top management the efficiency of company-wide meetings, the company has 39p In addition, Doosan Infracore reassigns idle labor to another programs according to the circumstances of the countries it through the CEO Lunch program among other initiatives. In published Ground Rules for the Conduct of Meetings, which business group with a relatively heavy workload, thus enoperates in, including various types of support for housing China, the company runs a field communication program, include various Do’s and Don’ts. In 2014, more than 550 abling the employees to maintain their employment with the and stable living conditions, childbirth and child-rearing, so HR personnel can communicate with employees. It also employees completed the Senior Facilitators course and the company while contributing to resolving other employees’ and healthcare. runs Doosan Way Time at the individual team level and a course on the improvement of the company’s meeting culgrievances over heavy workloads. monthly Dialogue with the DICC President. In the USA, Bobture in Korea. In addition, the company also offered training Provision of Refreshment Opportunities: In Korea, Doosan cat Company posted its Human Resources policies on its on the Write One-Page Reports initiative to all its employEfforts to Attract High-Caliber Talent Infracore provides its employees with a two-week summer intranet so employees can access crucial information more ees, including managers and executives, to establish a Doosan Infracore ranks very highly among Korea’s list of holiday in an effort to offer them opportunities to be reeasily. culture of efficient and simple reporting within the company. companies that jobseekers want to join. It offers employee freshed. As a new rule, Doosan Infracore discontinues its The same training was also provided to employees in China compensation packages that far surpass the average pay plant operations in the third week of August. Employees as part of the company’s attempts to fundamentally improve provided by the country’s quoted companies, as well as can choose a week before or after the period to enjoy a the way employees work there. provides them with comprehensive employee benefits. The two-week vacation. Managers also join the ranks of vacacompany spares no effort to hire proud and caring people. tioners. This concentration of the employee holiday scheme Doosan Infracore abides by all the pertinent labor-related in the month of August is now firmly rooted in the corpolaws, and implements discrimination-free employment. rate culture of Doosan Infracore. Those who have been with the company for more than a year are also eligible for the IMPLEMENTATION OF HR MANAGEMENT company’s Support for Employees’ Exploration of Advanced Overseas Cultures and may go abroad during the vacation On the basis of a caring merit system, Doosan Infracore period. To that end, the company offers them airfare and Vacation and Leave of Absence Programs for Family-friendly Management in Key Countries pursues the sustainable joint growth of the company and Eurail passes. The program is recognized as providing emits employees. The company strives to improve working ployees with opportunities to broaden their perspectives Arrangements Contents Eligibility Period conditions to create an organizational culture in which while recharging themselves both physically and psychoKorea Leave of absence for childcare Leave of absence for childcare Employees with children aged 8 or younger or Up to one year for a parent including one LOA and employees recognize each other’s differences and engage logically. Furthermore, it strengthens their pride in being second graders or lower in elementary school shorter working hours for each additional child in their work enthusiastically. In recognition of its strong Doosan People, while the initiative itself is unprecedented Shorter working hours during Reduction of work week to 15-30 hours Female employees who have given birth, had an A 90-day leave corporate culture, which is based on horizontal relations in corporate Korea. childcare period abortion or suffered stillbirth between employees and the provision of quality educational Pre-natal and post-natal Childbirth-related leave Male employees whose wives have given birth A 5-day leave opportunities to them, Doosan Infracore was selected as Implementation of Work Flex: In the USA, Bobcat Company maternity leave one of the Top 50 Korean Companies with the Best Workintroduced a flexible schedule for salaried employees in Family care Leave of absence for the purpose of Employees who have a family member to care 6 months plus 6 months ing Conditions in 2014. The recognition was based on an early 2014. It is expected that as employees may be able to family care for or who are in need of personal development evaluation of companies by their own employees. Doosan adjust their work schedules to their individual circumstancor infertility treatment Infracore received 3.73 in the overall evaluation in addition es, their satisfaction will rise while their work efficiency will China Maternity and childcare leaves Leave of absence for childbirth and childcare Childbearing female employees 6 months to 3.55 and 3.76 in the areas of work-life balance and inimprove. They can change their commuting times through Shorter working hours Shorter working hours for two months Childbearing female employees 2 months house culture, respectively, indicating the company’s efforts prior arrangements with management provided they keep to after childbirth to promote free in-house communication are recognized by the 40hour work week, including the core hours, i.e. from USA Flextime A variable work schedule (on the basis of All employees During the requested period employees. 09:00 to noon and from 13:00 to 15:00. Furthermore, they 40 hours a week) can choose to work at home or change their shift with their Family care Leave of absence for the purpose of family care Employees with parents in need of care 12 weeks (per parent) 70 71 2014 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report 48 CSR MANAGEMENT SYSTEM & MANAGEMENT OVERVIEW 74 ESTABLISHMENT OF THE INTEGRATED EHS SYSTEM Our CSR Performance 62 ENHANCEMENT OF CUSTOMER VALUE AND QUALITY COMPETITIVENESS 80 MUTUAL GROWTH WITH OUR SUPPLIERS 68 EMPLOYEE VALUE PROPOSITION 85 SUPPORTING DEVELOPMENT OF LOCAL COMMUNITIES ENHANCEMENT OF HR DEVELOPMENT to study anywhere, anytime. In 2014, the company expanded Cultivating Global Talent involvement. In recognition of such accomplishments in the its e-learning and online book reading courses from full-time Enhancement of leadership: Firm in the conviction that the future area of win-win labor relations, the chairman of the labor Doosan Doosan people strive to contribute to organizational develemployees to contract workers. It launched an EDU system at its of an organization depends on the commitment of its leaders, union of Doosan Infracore won the Gold Tower Order of InWay Time, opment and to improve their personal competencies. They Chinese subsidiary to support systematic HR development in the Doosan Infracore strives to cultivate global leaders who will dustrial Service Merit in Governmental Recognition of Win-Win All the time cherish the philosophies of Doosan and implement them country. The company also plans to set up an HR Development pioneer future changes and innovations at the company. The Labor Cooperation in 2014. 39p faithfully. Doosan Infracore has set an HR cultivation target Index Standardization Management System, which will allow the company has developed leadership training programs designed of fostering global leaders who will pioneer the organizacompany to effectively monitor all HRD-related activities. to educate Doosan people of different ranks about the leadership Cooperative Labor Relations tion’s future changes and innovations. Through a variety of skills they need and help them apply the information. The trainSince the launch of the win-win labor union in 2012, the comeducational programs, the company systematically supports Introduction of the Learning Credit System: Doosan Infracore ining is being expanded in stages. pany has implemented major win-win cooperation programs employees’ efforts to grow into global specialists in their troduced the Learning Credit System, an academic credit system such as the declaration of no more strikes for good, the respective areas, equipping them with leadership skills and for office workers, in 2013, and is now planning to introduce the Global Comprehensive Education: Doosan Infracore has develquickest conclusion of collective bargaining through the asinstilling them with a firm belief in Doosan’s values, culture system in China later this year. The most outstanding feature oped a network between the head office HRD and its overseas signment of the right to set a wage increase for management and leadership. of the system is that it allows employees to devise their own Doosan subsidiaries’ HRDs to share key training courses through and improvements in the personnel system for employees in Way Time, study plans and follow them at their own pace. The educational All the time regular Global HRD Council meetings. In 2015, the company technology positions. Labor and management have enhanced Enhancement of Job Competency program is composed of Leadership Credits designed to en39p plans to launch the Global Standard Induction Program, which their communication via a number of regular dialogue channels. Functional Competency (FC) Cultivation System: To continue hance leadership competency and Professional Credits aimed at integrates new employee training programs offered in various In addition, despite the difficult situations at home and abroad, enhancing employee competencies, Doosan Infracore has estabboosting job proficiency. The trainees grow into Doosan people regions. The training focuses on enabling employees to funcincluding a global recession and changes in labor policies, Doolished an FC system that takes each individual employee’s traits equipped with both expertise and leadership. tion as global Doosan people. san Infracore has consistently maintained win-win labor relations and capabilities into account, and has begun to implement the as proven by the conclusion of strike-free wage and collective system in its head office. In 2014, based on the completed FC Voluntary Sharing of Performance Results: Employees voluntarily Education on the Global Work Environment: Doosan Infracore bargaining agreements for four straight years, which, in turn, system, the company proceeded with the task of linking the share the knowledge they have acquired at worksites over the is implementing Cross-Cultural Training, a job training program has further enhanced win-win relations between management system to all relevant job training programs, and revising training years with one another and discuss better ways of approaching designed to help Doosan employees assigned to overseas and labor. courses in the areas of R&D, innovation, machine tools, sales and various issues. Such a trend is taking root. In the case of office posts to more seamlessly adapt to local work environments, marketing. In addition, the company published the FC Developworkers, experts in various fields run collective intelligence proincluding the study of local languages, culture and business Most notably, the labor and management of Doosan Infracore ment Directory booklet so employees can devise their own study grams to share their valuable experience and knowledge. In the practices. Furthermore, the company has produced a training has reached an agreement to expand the scope of the ordinary plans to develop their job competencies according to the results case of technical employees, The Best of the Best Performance program called Proud Doosan Infracore in the World. The prowage, a confrontational labor issue across the country, through of their respective FC analysis. The FC system will be applied to Share Fair enabled participants to view the advancement and sogram will introduce the company’s lines of business and prodin-depth discussions during the company’s collective bargaining the company’s overseas subsidiaries. In China, the company has phistication of the company’s work processes at a glance, while ucts along with its visions and philosophies for its overseas negotiations. To further enhance the benefit of ordinary wage already established the FC system in the fields of R&D, producthe Intra-Plant Meeting to Share Practices enabled those engaged employees in China, the USA and Europe, among others. It will expansion, Doosan Infracore has introduced a monthly salary tion technologies and quality. Starting in 2015, the company is in the same manufacturing processes at different plants to dishelp enhance their comprehension of the company and boost system for all employees to ensure no one is left behind in its planning to lay the foundation for the systematic management cuss their respective experiences and proposals for improvement. their loyalty toward it. At present, the Korean and Chinese guarantee of a stable life for its employees. and sharing of its diverse job-related knowledge, particularly versions are being upgraded. The English-language version through the upgrade and integration of its various FC-related for employees in the USA and Europe, in particular, will soon In China, the company’s labor union, which is subject to the regstandards and manuals. follow. ulations of the Labor Union Act, is represented by eight union officials who are elected annually by union members. The labor Cultivation of technical experts: In accordance with its judgment ESTABLISHMENT OF WIN-WIN LABOR RELATIONS union and management hold monthly meetings to discuss mathat the skill levels of its technical staff are directly linked to Functional Competency System jor changes or matters related to wages. They have collaborated product completeness and corporate competitiveness, Doosan The labor and management of Doosan Infracore maintain winto launch environmental clean-up drives in their local commuInfracore has established a functional competency system for win labor relations based on mutual trust and respect. In Konities every month, for which the labor union has been recogManagers Experts in their respective areas technical staff (Technical Staff FC) based on the Korean National rea, they have completed all wage and collective bargaining nized as an outstanding labor union by the government. In the Competency Standards (NCS). The system is tailored to the actual agreements without any labor union strikes for four straight USA, a labor union has been organized at the plant in Gwinner, circumstances of the worksites involved. The NCS has standardyears. They have also joined forces to engage in various inNorth Dakota. Through regular labor-management meetings and ized the knowledge, skills and attitudes required for job perforOffering a vision for dustrial safety activities to reduce occupational accident rates. the delegation of expanded autonomy to the union, Doosan their personal growth mance at industrial worksites. The standards are aimed at shifting Through diverse corporate community involvement activities, Infracore is building advanced labor relations. the focus from academic credentials to functional competency they have also fulfilled their respective corporate community so the country can continue producing competent workers at a national level. In 2015, Doosan Infracore will diagnose job compeHONORING THE KOREAN MASTER HAND tency at both the organizational and individual levels, publish a CULTIVATION OF manual on the establishment of a human rights risk management EXPERTS Cross-functional movement/ In 2014, Gihwan Hong of Doosan Infracore was selected as the Korean Master Hand by the Human Resources Development Service of Korea. system, redefine cultivation goals, and establish worksite-cenassignment Expansion of an The title of Korean Master Hand is awarded by the Ministry of Labor and Employment to honor a technician who has worked in a designated tered job training systems. Doosan Infracore also runs a technical (Strategic HR utilization) expert pool field for more than 15 years and earned recognition for having the highest level skills in that area in accordance with Article 11 of The Skilled expert system designed to cultivate great technicians and the Technique Encouragement Act. It is essentially a certificate proving that its holder is the country’s best technician in a given area. Mr. Hong is best technical employees. The company supports employees’ volthe first Korean Master Hand that Doosan Infracore has produced. He has been involved in machining for more than 30 years, and has filed 18 Technical untary academic and cultural activities including efforts to obtain guidance and patent applications in the area during that period. Among his other contributions is the machining of a key part (the head) for the company’s licenses and run study circles. cultivating EURO-4 diesel engine, which enabled the company to shorten the development period of the new product and make improvements to the leadership of new recruits overall quality of the mass-produced model. He has also worked hard to train his successors. In March 2014, after seven years of preparation, Establishment of the EDU (e-Doosan University) System: The he published a book titled The Latest Machining Techniques. The publication includes the entire body of practical knowledge he has amassed over three decades. In addition, he has given numerous lectures on career directions to secondary school students. After work, he coaches the EDU System, a group-wide, comprehensive e-HRD portal, helps company’s technical employees who compete at national skill competitions. As a result of his efforts, Doosan Infracore won a gold medal and employees study on their own. All courses in the system are Self-driven cultivation efforts a bronze medal in the area of numerical control lathe at the 45th National Skill Competition. Doosan Infracore is highly appreciative of his peraccessible from any type of smart device, allowing employees based on the results of POOL-IN FC analysis sonal contributions. It will spare no efforts to produce more Korean Master Hands. 72 73 2014 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report 48 CSR MANAGEMENT SYSTEM & MANAGEMENT OVERVIEW 74 ESTABLISHMENT OF THE INTEGRATED EHS SYSTEM Our CSR Performance 62 ENHANCEMENT OF CUSTOMER VALUE AND QUALITY COMPETITIVENESS 80 MUTUAL GROWTH WITH OUR SUPPLIERS 68 EMPLOYEE VALUE PROPOSITION 85 SUPPORTING DEVELOPMENT OF LOCAL COMMUNITIES S Shareholders / Investors ESTABLISHMENT OF THE INTEGRATED OUR FOCUS Establishment of Worksite Energy Efficiency Management System: As a global leader in the machine manufacturing industry, Doosan Infracore joins worldwide efforts to reduce GHG emissions EHS SYSTEM E N E RG Y M A N AG E M E N T / while focusing on improving its worksite energy efficiency to effectively respond to widely fluctuating industrial energy prices. Worksite energy efficiency management is a midto long-term task RE S P O N S E TO CLI M AT E requiring the company’s continuous investment from a long-term perspective as well as employees’ CH A N G E active participation in improvement efforts. Doosan will continue to strive to upgrade its worksite energy efficiency as part of its commitment to boosting its fundamental business competitiveness RI S K AND CH ALLE NGE Customers / Dealers at the global level. Environmental protection is no longer a matter of choice: It is an essential prerequisite for sustainable management. Society as a whole advocates corporate responsibility to2015 TARGET ward the environment, asking companies to disclose more specific information on their environmental management Improve the energy consumption Establish basic energy units efforts. Thus, companies are challenged to regard environmeasurement system mental protection as another management infrastructure Employees issue and to work toward boosting the value of the Earth. They are also required to make their environmental management more efficient and healthy through improvements to employees’ health. INTEGRATED EHS MANAGEMENT tal issues, such as climate change and REACH (Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and restriction of CHemicals), OUR APPROACH Doosan Infracore’s implementation of responsible EHS under a companywide approach and set up cooperative Suppliers management is a core issue under the direct control of its systems with its subsidiaries to manage environmental risks Doosan Infracore considers EHS (Environment, Health and CEO. The company implements EHS management at all its more efficiently. In the USA, Bobcat Company disclosed Safety) to be crucial. It has established a companywide integrated EHS management system. As a global corpoworksites through companywide EHS organizations, includits localized EHS policies at the end of 2014, shared the rate citizen, Doosan Infracore acknowledges the severity ing the Environmental Management Team and EHS experts. information with all employees through a notice issued by of climate change and the importance of taking responAll of the company’s worksites in Korea and China, as well the head of the subsidiary, and posted it on the employee Local Communities sive measures. It strives to minimize negative impacts as the Gwinner plant in the USA, have obtained certificatintranet as well as at its plants. on its stakeholders throughout its business processes. ion for their health, safety and environment management Establishment of an integrated EHS management system It also implements global policies and diverse programs systems (ISO 14001). They are now promoting more effective designed to create safe worksites and promote employee and active EHS management through the establishment of health and safety. an integrated EHS management systems. Central / Local Government Construction of an Integrated Global Management System EHS self-evaluation: To upgrade its EHS management to the level of a global industrial leader, Doosan Infracore carries PER F O R M A N C E CH ART out its own EHS evaluations of its workplaces around the world in accordance with the DSRS* evaluation criteria. The Enhancement of the Efficiency of results indicate that at the four plants in Korea, including Results of EHS Self-Evaluation 2014 Prevention and Management of Energy Management and Climate Resource Utilization and ManageIntegrated EHS Management 3 Employees’ Health and Safety the Incheon plant, workers identify work risks and manMedia Change Response 1 ment of Environmental Risk Korea China Europe North America 2 4 Risks 5 age them appropriately, and the company’s suppliers also Score 80 68 54 To be carried demonstrate an exemplary level of EHS awareness. The Level Regenerative Proactive Proactive out in 2015 issu e 201 4 target 2 0 14 pe r f o rm an ce achi e ve 2 0 15 pl a n plants in China and Europe showed keen interest in EHS at 1 Energy Management / Laying the foundation for the imImplementation of midto long-term Analyze GHG emissions at global worksites a level just one step lower, namely, the Proactive Level, and *D SRS Class: Regenerative (initiated by site workers, above 70 points) Workers can identify and manage Climate Change Response plementation of emissions trading climate change response strategies and Improve the energy consumption measurement system exclusive EHS departments offered them the appropriate their job risks on their own with the level of EHS awareness of suppliers and workers remaining very high. carbon reduction roadmap Establish basic energy units technical and administrative guidance services. Doosan InAll EHS management is done on site with executives and supervisors setting examples. / Proactive (initiated 2 Management of Emissions within 40% of the legally Implementation of the 2nd soil recovery project Enhance environmental impact monitoring on a by site supervisors, 50-70 points) EHS management at the site is carried out by supervisors with top Environmental Pollutants permitted level Emissions within 40% of the legally continuous basis fracore now plans to expand the annual internal evaluation management showing keen interest in improving the organization’s EHS culture / Reactive (initiated by EHS permitted level to North America. organization, below 50 points) EHS is regarded as a matter that only concerns the EHS organization. Focus is placed only on the management of legal or system certification requirements 3 Environmental Management Global worksite EHS rating Global worksite EHS rating Global worksite EHS rating * DSRS (Doosan EHS Rating System): The EHS evaluation system was Korea: 80 points Korea: 80.1 points Korea: 83 points developed by Doosan Group to evaluate the EHS level of each worksite Others: 70 points Others: 56 points Others: 75 points quantitatively and to encourage them to make improvements on a 4 Reduction of Environmental New Environment-related complaints Reduce environmental complaints and enforce continuous basis. Doosan Group has adjusted the DSRS applied by global Risks for Local Communities reduced by 58% compliance with environmental standards industrial leaders to its own circumstances. 80 5 In-house Safety/Healthcare To operate stress management Opening of two counseling centers Achieve 23% utilization of counseling centers Management programs Establish smoke-free workplaces companywide Global EHS Governance: Doosan Infracore has built up global EHS governance to share its EHS policies with all worksites around the world. It aims to implement the core 68 To be carried out in 2015 S values of the Doosan Way, including the realization of safe : Influential stakeholders in each area and clean worksites. According to the global EHS goverF U T U R E D IR EC T I ON nance, each region forms its own EHS Council while the 54 head office organizes a companywide committee, and every Construction of an integrated Establishment of a responsible Improvement of the efficiency of Growth and evolution into a healthy global management system climate change response system the utilization of limited resources and safe company by improving subsidiary constructs its own EHS evaluation system by through global EHS evaluation. through continuous control of and minimization of environmenworksite risk management and which it can operate through standardized processes and GHG emissions. tal impacts on local communities. enhancing employee healthcare. systems. Doosan Infracore will cope with global environmenKorea China Europe North America 74 75 2014 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report 48 CSR MANAGEMENT SYSTEM & MANAGEMENT OVERVIEW 74 ESTABLISHMENT OF THE INTEGRATED EHS SYSTEM Our CSR Performance 62 ENHANCEMENT OF CUSTOMER VALUE AND QUALITY COMPETITIVENESS 80 MUTUAL GROWTH WITH OUR SUPPLIERS 68 EMPLOYEE VALUE PROPOSITION 85 SUPPORTING DEVELOPMENT OF LOCAL COMMUNITIES ENERGY MANAGEMENT AND CLIMATE Enhancement of Energy Efficiency ENHANCEMENT OF THE EFFICIENCY OF Management of Environmental Pollutants CHANGE RESPONSE Each of the company’s worksites across the world sets its RESOURCE UTILIZATION AND MANAGEMENT OF Management of odors and air pollutants: In Korea, Doosan Think Green, own energy conservation goal, identifies the necessary conMake Green ENVIRONMENTAL RISK Infracore has enhanced its environmental management startFully aware of the seriousness of climate change, Doosan servation activities, and implements them. The Global R&D 42p ing from its initial production processes by making continInfracore has devised a range of countermeasures and imCenter that opened its doors in 2014 has already received Doosan Infracore is looking for ways to use limited reuous investments in eco-friendly facilities. Doosan Infracore plemented them companywide. Due to the characteristics the highest rating in the government’s energy efficiency sources more efficiently for the next generation. It strives has introduced odor reduction technologies being used in of the company’s processes, its consumption of indirect evaluation and the excellence class in the government’s to minimize the impact of its business activities on the advanced overseas industrial plants in Germany and Japan, energy sources is much higher than that of direct energy Green Certification procedures. The Incheon Plant replaced environment and on the local communities in which it conwhile improving the efficiency of its odor treatment through sources. Nevertheless, the company has measured the GHG some of its metal halide lamps with high-efficiency elecducts its operations in particular through strict and constant reduction technologies customized to the characteristics of emissions of each worksite in Korea and received external trode-free lamps, saving 1,750,212 kWh in electricity or KRW management of environmental pollutants. To that end, it its manufacturing processes. independent assurance of its efforts since 2004. It has also 206 million in energy bills per year while saving 832,625 introduces various eco-friendly resource utilization methods established GHG emission measurement systems for its kWh in electricity or KRW 98 million in energy bills per year while reducing its total volume of pollutants through efforts Management of hazardous chemicals and oils: To prevent plants in China and Bobcat Company in the USA. by introducing new air compressors. In China, Doosan Infrato cut emissions. Doosan Infracore manages its emission the leakage of hazardous chemicals and oil, the Incheon core finished the replacement of low-efficiency facilities in of pollutants more strictly than required by law in all releplant installed two additional emergency floodgate valves Responsible Response Strategies to Climate Change 2013. It is now seeking to obtain certification for its clean vant areas. The company’s performance in emissions and at its final rainwater outlet in 2014. The electronically conAll the company’s worksites in Korea have estimated its production system. The relevant certification proves that resource utilization can be checked in its CSR Performance trolled valves are designed to prevent any leakage of hazmidto long-term GHG emissions and worked out a roada manufacturer is equipped with a system that reduces Tables. ardous chemicals or oils from polluting the nearby coastline. map for GHG emissions reduction in preparation for implethe emission of pollutants and produces merchandise in If leakage occurs at the plant, the valves are electronically mentation of the emissions trading scheme, which is due eco-friendly ways throughout its entire production proEnhancement of the Efficiency of Resource Utilization shut tight by a constantly monitoring system, thus signifito start in 2015 as part of its strategic response to climate cesses, including its procurement of raw materials through Water reuse: The Incheon Plant established a wastewater cantly reducing the risk of an environmental disaster. All change in the medium and long-term. In 2014, for the suppliers. In the USA, application for LEED Certification was recycling system designed to reuse the effluent discharged worksites in China continue to improve their practices with plants in the USA, Bobcat Company set up a CO2 emissions made in 2014 for the Acceleration Center with the certificate from its wastewater treatment facility in its production respect to the treatment of hazardous chemicals and offer monitoring system related to the quantity of consumption expected to be issued by the end of 2015. This certification processes in 2014. The wastewater reuse system is an regular education on the subject to employees and suppliof natural gas, electricity, water and energy at the worksites. proves a building has met all eco-friendly requirements in Environmental eco-friendly resource utilization method that enables wasteers. The company also manages its energy consumption, tons of all relevant processes from design to operation. PrerequiPerformance water to be used as cleaning or cooling water through the coal equivalent (TCE) and CO2 emissions in China. Doosan sites for application for the certification include environmen13p installation of a UF & R/O facility* and recycled water storSoil management: In 2013, the Incheon plant completed the Infracore plans to continue conducting the diagnoses and tal-friendliness in the design, the use of soil, water, energy age tanks. The system can even produce ultrapure water. first phase of its soil remediation project, which spanned analyses required to manage and reduce the GHG emissions and materials, and interior work. The Wahpeton and Fargo The plant now recycles about 80% of the wastewater it used the three years between 2011 and 2013 with KRW 6 billion. of its major subsidiaries in China throughout the year. The sites have replaced their lamps with high-efficiency LED to discharge after treatment into its production processes Since 2014, the Incheon plant has commenced the second Chinese subsidiaries will continue to expand the scope of lights. Meanwhile, the Gwinner plant is set to complete its among other uses, thereby reducing its water consumption phrase soil remediation project with a total budget of KRW management of their GHG emissions to include indirect lamp replacement in 2015, an initiative expected to save significantly. It now pays KRW 101 million less in water bills 38.9 billion. emission sources (Scope 3) such as those generated by emmore than $400,000 in electricity. To reduce its energy conper year. In China, the EHS department undertakes actions ployee commuting and business trips. sumption during transport between worksites, the company to improve its practices in the areas of wastewater treatEnvironmental Risk Management for Local Communities streamlined the transport route between the Gwinner and ment, pollutant emission control, energy conservation and Doosan Infracore is enhancing its efforts to minimize the Management of GHG Emissions Bismarck plants and reduced 800 miles in daily truck travel water conservation. It has shared its diverse experiences environmental impact of its worksite operations on local IIn Korea, Doosan Infracore’s GHG emissions are managed distance. It plans to replace 12 transport diesel trucks with with other companies through energy conservation fairs. communities and making ongoing environmental improveaccording to the Rules on GHG and Energy Management. CNG vehicles in the first half of 2015, which is expected to *U F & R/O (Ultrafiltration & Reverse Osmosis): an integrated platform ments to create a clean living environment in and around Energy consumption, including electricity and LNG, is meacut diesel fuel consumption by 400,000 gallons per year for water treatment that even separates electronic ions through water its worksites. Considering itself a part of the communities treatment technology based on microfiltration membrane systems. sured by gauges at each plant and production line. The and reduce NOx emissions by 80%. in which it operates, the company takes preemptive actions results are converted and analyzed automatically and sent Enhancement of Recycling Rates: For more efficient utilizato eliminate the causes of complaints, including foul odors, to the GHG Monitoring System in the company’s integrated tion of limited resources, Doosan Infracore spares no efforts and, in partnership with environmental agencies, regularly EHS IT system. Owing to the characteristics of its assembly to thoroughly check production facilities and maintain them offers SMEs technical support for their environmental manprocesses, indirect emissions from electricity purchases acin the best conditions possible and maximize conservation agement. By combining such efforts with the company’s count for about 74% of its total GHG emissions, followed GHG emissions from worksites in Korea (tCO2eq) of resources. In Korea, the company has reduced operatcontinuous exchanges with stakeholders in local commuby those from LNG consumed for heating and painting, and ing costs through improvements in workspace setups and nities, Doosan Infracore’s worksites in Korea reduced the those from diesel and gasoline used for product trials and facility operations as well as the recycling of idle air-connumber of civil complaints about environmental issues by vehicles. Through aggressive GHG emission reduction meaditioners, among others. In 2014, the waste recycling ratio 58% compared to 2013. sures, Doosan Infracore only emitted approximately 80% of rose to 93%. In the USA, the Gwinner plant recycled a total the quantity allocated by the government in 2014. of 285.76 tons (630,002 lbs.) of cardboard and 2.61 tons 153,441 162,080 154,998 (5,757 lbs.) of office paper during the year through recycling campaigns. Doosan Infracore will continue to step up 154,998 its recycling ratio in 2015 through the use of compressors and shredders. By the end of 2015, the company plans to reduce its waste landfill ratio by 50%. 2012 2013 2014 76 77 2014 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report 48 CSR MANAGEMENT SYSTEM & MANAGEMENT OVERVIEW 74 ESTABLISHMENT OF THE INTEGRATED EHS SYSTEM Our CSR Performance 62 ENHANCEMENT OF CUSTOMER VALUE AND QUALITY COMPETITIVENESS 80 MUTUAL GROWTH WITH OUR SUPPLIERS 68 EMPLOYEE VALUE PROPOSITION 85 SUPPORTING DEVELOPMENT OF LOCAL COMMUNITIES PREVENTION AND MANAGEMENT OF EHS 3-3-3 Basic Rules Enhancement of Employee Health Management Operation of stress management programs: To promote EMPLOYEES’ SAFETY AND HEALTH RISKS Enhanced management of employee safety, health and employees’ mental health, Doosan Infracore implements job Safety 1. Wear designated personal protective healthcare: In Korea, Doosan Infracore designated all of its stress management programs, including the special manageBased on its midto long-term business strategy, Doosan equipment within work sites. worksites in the country as smoke-free places as of January ment of high-risk groups of employees. In Korea, the com2. Engage in machinery and facilitymaintenance Infracore strives to stabilize its voluntary safety culture and 1, 2015. It has provided CPR education to more than 16,000 pany enhanced the mental healthcare program it began to after operation has stopped. expand its scope of healthcare support to the families of its 3. Do not release safety measures arbitrarily. people, including employees and their family members. It offer on a regular basis in 2007, and launched DooHug, its employees. The company also works hard for win-win situahas installed 12 automated external defibrillators (AED) at in-house psychological counseling center, in 2014. During tions with suppliers through the development of symbiotic Environment 1. Separate your trash according to rules worksites across the country. Furthermore, it has had all the same year, the company also ran the Healing Program, relationships with them in the areas of safety and health. before disposing of it. employees vaccinated against hepatitis A and also pays the a small-scale stress management program, for those teams 2. Never dispose of environmentally hazardous cost of seasonable influenza vaccines for its employees and exhibiting a higher level of stress as a result of its job materials like chemicals and their family members. stress surveys. The in-house counseling center recorded an waste oil arbitrarily. Creation of a Safe and Pleasant Work Environment 3. Emit pollutants only when prevention average operation rate of 76% throughout 2014. The comEstablishment of comprehensive EHS reward system: Doofacilities are in operation Doosan Infracore contracted with International SOS, a leadpany’s stress management program received 4.3-4.5 on a san Infracore has implemented an EHS reward system to ing global medical and travel security services company, scale of 0 to 5 from the employees who actually used the expand the company’s safety promotion by motivating Firefighting 1. Never smoke on the premises.* in 2012, and has since provided comprehensive overseas program. To encourage more employees to use DooHug 2. Obtain permission before engaging in any employees to get involved in EHS activities. In 2014, the safety management services to Doosan employees based in 2015, the company plans to launch mobile publicity, work that may generate flames. company held a companywide EHS Safety Day. Employees 3. Do not leave things in front of firefighting or traveling overseas. All Doosan people across the world introduce a trial run of the counseling service, and share shared their safety-themed user created content (UCC), their facilities. are entitled to medical services, emergency relief from war, employee writings about the service. It is also preparing to actions to prevent fatal accidents, and their visual safety * Smoking is prohibited on Doosan premises as natural disaster or accident, and information on travel seculaunch customized stress management education based on education programs. The company rewarded employees who of Jan. 1, 2015. rity from the company in foreign countries where they are the results of an analysis of the services conducted in 2014. made exceptional contributions to these efforts. stationed or traveling. In China, the company manages employee stress through Safety culture stabilization and worksite hazard manageIn addition, the company pays for employees to undergo the EAP (Employees Assistance Program). In addition, the ment: In 2014, Doosan Infracore launched the EHS 3-3mandatory vaccination for six designated diseases, includcompany is planning to expand the counseling service be3 Basic Rules Compliance Campaign to prevent accidents ing yellow fever, cholera, malaria, typhoid, hepatitis A and ginning in 2015 to include not just Korean employees stafrom occurring through compliance with basic safety rules. tetanus, when they go on business trips to countries where tioned in China, but also their accompanying family memThrough hazard identification activities, a total of 159 busithere is a high risk of epidemics. bers to help them relieve stress caused by rapid changes in ness units of Doosan Infracore obtained certification for their work and life environments. their autonomous control and management of various safety hazards. The company reduced the number of occupational accidents recording a 25% reduction over the previous year. Every month, the company holds a meeting of the Musculoskeletal Disorder Improvement Working Council consisting of labor union officials, worksite managers and employees in charge of EHS and production to discuss physical load risks and identify ways of making improvements. The company also arranges for medical professionals to visit its worksites regularly to improve employee health and boost morale. I N C H E O N P L A N T AWA R D E D S A F E T Y Z O N E C E R T I F I C AT I O N ® In December 2014, the Incheon plant obtained the Safety Zone Certification, the only certificate in Korea in the field of disaster prevention, which is awarded by Safety Zone-CERTI® and supervised by the National Emergency Management Agency (NEMA). The certificate is awarded to organizations that pass the agency’s evaluation of 238 items under six categories, including building design, construction and fire safety. The Incheon plant was recognized for its efforts to increase investment in its safety facilities and remove health and safety hazards from a variety of areas at the worksite. The plant was highly regarded for its efforts to motivate employees to participate in the employee-initiated safety management system and to prevent occupational accidents at the worksite. As the first of Doosan’s manufacturing companies to obPsychological Counseling Center designed to tain the certificate, Doosan Infracore is now seeking to obtain the certification for its Changwon and Gunsan plants as part of its safety and offer employees an in-house psychological disaster prevention initiatives for all worksites in Korea. counseling program DooHug 78 79 2014 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report 48 CSR MANAGEMENT SYSTEM & MANAGEMENT OVERVIEW 74 ESTABLISHMENT OF THE INTEGRATED EHS SYSTEM Our CSR Performance 62 ENHANCEMENT OF CUSTOMER VALUE AND QUALITY COMPETITIVENESS 80 MUTUAL GROWTH WITH OUR SUPPLIERS 68 EMPLOYEE VALUE PROPOSITION 85 SUPPORTING DEVELOPMENT OF LOCAL COMMUNITIES S Shareholders / Investors MUTUAL GROW TH WITH OUR SUPPLIERS OUR FOCUS Enhancement of Supplier Network CSR Management System: The number of global enterprises expanding their CSR obligations to their value chain is on the rise. Furthermore, the international community expects global corporations to take their suppliers’ CSR obligations as seriously as their E N H A N CE M E N T O F own. Therefore, the management of its supplier network CSR activities has emerged as a materiS U P P LI E R CS R ACT I V I T I E S al issue that affects not only the prestige of Doosan Infracore, but also its competitiveness as a business entity. Doosan Infracore has thus selected the enhancement of its supplier network CSR RI S K AND CH ALLE NGE management system as one of its major improvement tasks, expecting the enhancement to help Customers / Dealers with its business outcomes and more importantly fulfill all that is expected of the company by its As a company grows and its management environment stakeholders and society in general. becomes increasingly complex, the competitiveness of its network becomes as important as its growth. When it 2015 TARGET views its multiple suppliers in business relations simply from the standpoint of business profits, not only does its Develop supplier network CSR guidelines Improve the supplier CSR evaluation system social relationship suffer, but also innovations in its products and services become harder to achieve. Conversely, Employees if it accepts suppliers as sustainable growth partners and joins forces with them to boost their respective social values, the company not only achieves growth for itself and its suppliers, but contributes to the growth of the ENHANCING SUPPLIER COMPETITIVENESS Establishment of a horizontal transaction culture: To estabindustry as well. lish a fair trade and horizontal transaction culture within the Doosan Infracore helps its suppliers to lay secure foundaorganization, Doosan Infracore set guidelines and disclosed Suppliers OUR APPROACH tions for sustainable management and tap into future-orithem on the company website. The guidelines are based on Under the belief that shared growth with suppliers is the ented markets. In recognition of the company’s contributions the Standard Subcontract for the Machinery Industry pubultimate source of its competitiveness, Doosan Infracore to helping its suppliers make practical improvements, Doolished by the Korea Fair Trade Commission. All procedures strives to build a virtuous circle partnership with all of san Infracore was ranked the highest in the 2013 Evaluation related to the selection of suppliers and executed contracts them by enhancing their competency through systematic of the Implementation of the Fair Trade and Shared Growth with them are made in a fair and transparent way through Local Communities collaboration in technology, quality assurance and manAgreement, and was designated as an exemplary company the ERP system. The company holds monthly meetings of agement practices. In addition, the company strives to in its transactions with suppliers. In 2014, the company the Internal Review Council, which reviews the company’s Suppliers' Day 2014 build a culture of horizontal cooperation with suppliers was rated excellent by the Korea Commission for Corporate execution of its contracts, its suppliers, and the pricing dewhile helping them to implement sustainable management Partnership in the shared growth index evaluation, and was cision processes involved. Doosan Infracore violated none of practices, and, to that end, helps them diagnose and also selected as an excellent company in benefit sharing, an the laws related to fair trade and the execution of subconevaluate the status of their sustainable management efCentral / Local Government achievement which also earned it the Presidential Award. tracts in 2014. forts and supports their efficient adoption and expansion of their own sustainable management systems. Creation of a Shared Growth Culture Operation of the internal reporting system: To enhance its Exclusive organization and performance reflection: Doosan capacity to implement and practice ethical management Infracore has established a virtuous circle type of partnership with its suppliers, Doosan Infracore posts information on with suppliers under the leadership of its Shared Growth unfair transactions involving its employees or suppliers on PER F O R M A N C E CH ART Team, which reports directly to the CEO. In Korea and China, the company website. It has also established an internal the company reflects the shared growth performance of the reporting system, including the Cyber Report Center. Most Media Support for Supplier Establishment of Sustainable relevant executives in their MBO (Management By Objectives) notably, Doosan Infracore runs the Unfair Transaction Activity Enhancement of Supplier Competitiveness 2 Management Systems 1 performance appraisal. It also considers suppliers’ shared Report Center and the Supplier Hotline (both online and growth performance when planning purchases from them for via an exclusive telephone line) for reports on or inquiries the following year to motivate their participation. about irregularities committed by its employees or suppliers. In 2014, all of the reported cases were acted on and issu e 201 4 tar get 2 0 14 pe r f o rm an ce a chi e ve 2 0 15 pl a n the necessary improvements were made. 1 Enhanced Supplier CSR Reflection of Bobcat Company Upgraded evaluation items Develop supplier network CSR guidelines supplier CSR in evaluation Improve supplier CSR evaluation system 2 Shared Growth with Enhancement of suppliers’ product Support for technical development (85 cases) Enhancement of suppliers’ product Suppliers competitiveness competitiveness - Localized development of parts -Localized development of parts Localized development of parts (12 cases) (8 cases) (12 suppliers, 14 cases) - Joint development of new machine - Joint development of new machine models Joint development of new machine models models (30 cases) (46 cases) (26 suppliers, 38 cases) PRESIDENTIAL AWARD FOR EXCELLENCE IN THE BENEFIT SHARING The benefit sharing system refers to an agreement between midto large-sized businesses and their suppliers to engage in joint efforts to S reduce costs and distribute the results thereof according to a prior agreement. It is a representative implementation model that is essential to : Influential stakeholders in each area the creation of a cooperation-based corporate ecology. In 2014, Doosan Infracore was selected as a representative benefit-sharing company in FU T U R E D IR EC T I ON the category of management system improvements and was recognized as an excellent benefit-sharing business with the Presidential Award. Formation of win-win partnerships through Specifically, the company was recognized for its achievement in establishing an online system that enabled the standardization of its benefit Strengthening of suppliers’ competitiveness Expansion of the foundation for the establishment of horizontal business through diverse forms of technical and sustainable growth by helping suppliers sharing processes. Through the company’s benefit sharing system, Doosan Infracore’s suppliers can make suggestions about quality improverelationships. financial support. implement sustainable management. ments or design changes among other matters online freely. When suggestions are reflected in its products, the benefits are shared evenly between Doosan and the supplier concerned. As of 2014, Doosan Infracore promoted a total of 40 benefit sharing projects. To encourage suppliers to become involved in the system, the company offers associated educational programs and incentive packages. In addition, it spreads success stories through the Dissipation Council and the Study Group. By improving its suppliers’ ability to share their benefits, Doosan Infracore also helps its suppliers expand the application of its benefit sharing scheme to secondand third-tier suppliers. 80 81 2014 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report 48 CSR MANAGEMENT SYSTEM & MANAGEMENT OVERVIEW 74 ESTABLISHMENT OF THE INTEGRATED EHS SYSTEM Our CSR Performance 62 ENHANCEMENT OF CUSTOMER VALUE AND QUALITY COMPETITIVENESS 80 MUTUAL GROWTH WITH OUR SUPPLIERS 68 EMPLOYEE VALUE PROPOSITION 85 SUPPORTING DEVELOPMENT OF LOCAL COMMUNITIES Enhancement of Communication with Suppliers began to implement Production Basics Compliance activities DSEP Operation: DSEP (Doosan Supplier Excellence ProFinancial support: In Korea, Doosan Infracore provides four Operation of communication channels: Doosan Infracore designed to evaluate suppliers’ basic production capabilities gram) refers to Doosan Infracore’s unique customized suptypes of financial support to suppliers: direct support, Continuous Quality gathers supplier opinions through regular Shared Growth in April 2014, and issued certificates to 30 suppliers that Innovation plier cultivation system. The company has set a goal of indirect support, mixed support, and special support. In Council meetings. The CEO and the heads of its Business met the company’s standards. Doosan Infracore boosts the 65p cultivating 44 suppliers into leading suppliers by 2018 particular, under the mixed support program, the company Areas visit the company’s suppliers on a regular basis to quality of its parts by enhancing its suppliers’ competency: through the application of the DSEP. In 2014, it selected six raises and operates a special fund for shared growth to listen to their voices and find solutions to their problems. the company supports the 3P6S activities of 13 suppliers, suppliers as beneficiaries of the program. Doosan Infracore support suppliers at low interest rates. In 2014, the compaIn Korea, the company has also instituted Suppliers’ Day to and also runs the Canning Firm Innovation Activities Council applies the DSEP to the suppliers’ vulnerable areas as a ny expanded the size of the fund to KRW 103 billion, with share its annual business plan with suppliers, and the outwith 13 suppliers. result of its diagnosis of the firms’ current standing in key KRW 58 billion loaned out. To further stabilize supplier standing shared growth experiences of its most successful areas such as manufacturing technologies, plant operaoperations, the company offered them KRW 5.65 billion in suppliers with other suppliers. It also awards suppliers that Supplier Competitiveness Enhancement Support Center: tions and quality assurance. It plans to dispatch internal exfacility investment funds. It is also diversifying the sources have recorded outstanding achievements in business perforTo enhance suppliers’ competitiveness and stabilize their perts in the relevant fields to suppliers so they can improve of its financial support for suppliers by making network mance by pursuing innovative measures. It has also set up management, Doosan Infracore helps them establish a their competency continuously. In China, Doosan Infracore loans and family corporate loans available to them, and by various other communication channels with them, including reasonable inventory and delivery management system. An is implementing the DSEP for three local suppliers, and has investing in the Machinery Industry Shared Growth Promopledge ceremonies, meetings, workshops, and the Supplier exclusive team of 50 in-house experts and technical engiselected 30 outstanding suppliers to which it will provide tion Foundation. In Korea, Doosan Infracore increased its Quality Council. In China, the company holds biannual meetneers continuously visit suppliers for a period of six to 12 support. cash payment percentage to 43.7% to enable suppliers to ings between its executives and supplier representatives to months. Specifically, the support team has provided technisecure financial liquidity. share the purpose of shared growth and refresh their comcal support in the areas of welding, material manufacturing, mitment to the cause. and non-destructive inspection in addition to its support for Support for an interest-free installment payment scheme for supplier innovation in the fields of 3P6S, Lean, DTC, Single machine tools: To enhance the quality competitiveness of Surveys on supplier satisfaction: Doosan Infracore conducts PPM*, quality guidance and problem solving, with the aim its suppliers and reduce the initial burden on their machine annual surveys on supplier satisfaction to evaluate the of improving the suppliers’ manufacturing competitiveness. tool improvement costs, Doosan Infracore offers them an inefficiency of supplier support measures and identify future By implementing such a wide range of support measures, terest-free installment payment benefit of up to 24 months directions for improvement. In Korea, the survey measures Doosan Infracore expects to improve the quality of its supto facilitate their purchase of machine tools. In 2014, the supplier satisfaction with the company’s support for shared pliers’ parts by more than 60% by the end of 2015 comcompany provided KRW 10.2 billion in no-interest payment growth, its fair trade practices, its culture of horizontal pared with 2013. loans on machine tools to 56 suppliers. It is estimated that transactions, and the degree of their understanding of the the suppliers will save a total of KRW 455 million in interest * 3P6S: Three ‘P’s (Proper Items, Proper Quantity, Proper Place) and six ‘S’s company’s shared growth policies. Out of the maximum (Safety, Sort, Straighten, Shine, Standardize, Sustain) activities payments each year (based on an annual interest rate of * Lean: Activities designed to minimize inventories and innovate work score of 5, the survey results showed scores of 4.21 in 2014, processes, thus reducing costs and enhancing productivity. 4.45%) from the arrangement. indicating suppliers are highly satisfied with the company’s * DTC: Design To Cost * Single PPM (Parts per Million): A quality innovation campaign designed to 2014 Supplier Financial Support (Korea) practices. In China, Doosan Infracore conducts an annual achieve the quality management goal of reducing the ratio of faulty products survey of suppliers and shares the results with the relevant to under 10 per 1 million products. Direct Support Facility investment funds KRW 5.65 bil. for nine suppliers supplier departments and personnel. Feedback is delivered Supplier Communication Activities (Korea) Mixed Support Shared growth special funds KRW 103 bil. raised to the company via systematic arrangements. KRW 58 bil. loaned 2013 2014 Special Support Machinery Industry Shared Growth KRW 400 mil. Support for Enhancement of Suppliers’ Product Suppliers’ Day 161 suppliers in attendance 143 suppliers in attendance Promotion Foundation Competitiveness CEO’s Supplier Visits 5 times Twice Industrial Innovation Campaign 3.0 KRW 300 mil. Support for technical development and quality improveSupplier Satisfaction Points 4.20 4.21 ments: In Korea and China, Doosan Infracore is moving (on a five-point scale) forward with parts quality innovation activities for its major suppliers whose production processes have produced defective parts or which have incurred customer complaints. In 2014, the company launched the Parts Quality Innovation 320 Activities program to provide concentrated support tosuppliers twice a year, with the target of making a 20% improvement within three months. In China, Doosan Infracore EXEMPL ARY COMPANY PRIZE IN SHARED GROW TH CATEGORY OF SHANGHAI CSR AWARDS In 2014, Doosan Infracore’s Chinese subsidiary received the Inaugural Shanghai Exemplary CSR Company Grand Prize from the ConsulThe Process to Collect Supplier Opinions and Reflect Them in Management Activities (Korea) ate General of Korea in Shanghai, China, in recognition of its efforts to promote shared growth with its local suppliers in the country. The Shanghai Exemplary CSR Company Grand Prize was launched by the Consulate General of Korea to motivate Korean companies Suppliers Shared Growth Promotion Team Strategies/Decisions Implementation Regular/constant channels operating in China to fulfill their social responsibilities. Doosan Infracore was awarded the inaugural grand prize for its efforts to develop the competency of its suppliers’ employees through SD CSR Team (Supplier Development) Academy and vocational schools. The comRegular channels pany audits continuous endeavors to improve communication with suppliers through regular meetings and collection of VOS (Voice of Feedback Suppliers). 82 83 2014 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report Our CSR Performance S SUPPORTING DEVELOPMENT OF Shareholders / Investors SUPPORT FOR SUPPLIER ESTABLISHMENT OF Protection of Supplier Worksites and Employees SUSTAINABLE MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS Doosan Infracore has led the way in promoting the protection of the human rights of its suppliers’ workers and LOCAL COMMUNITIES Doosan Infracore supports suppliers to implement corpoimprovements in their working conditions through the esrate values, such as ethical management, fair trade, human tablishment of the Working Condition Protection Guidelines rights and environmental protection, efforts suppliers recogfor In-house Subcontractor Workers. Moreover, the company Customers / Dealers nize as necessary but cannot act on easily because of their offers its supplier workers customized healthcare consulting size and/or their lack of the relevant infrastructure. Doosan and management programs. RISK AND C HAL L EN G E Infracore is expanding the scope of its support for the establishment of sustainable management systems by its Doosan Infracore is also implementing diverse support sysCorporate community involvement (CCI) is an area of acsuppliers to include secondand third-tier suppliers. It plans tems to ensure the safety of its suppliers’ worksite operativity that can reveal a company’s CSR efforts in the most universal way. However, when CCI activities are launched to continue sharing its core values with them and motivate tions. In Korea, it has joined with its suppliers to participate as a one-off event in clear pursuit of commercial benefits them to secure the ability to operate the system on their in the Safety and Healthcare Win-Win Cooperation Program Employees or in an insincere fashion, such efforts can have a toxic own as early as possible. promoted by the Ministry of Employment and Labor since effect on a company’s sustainable growth. Therefore, to 2012. Company representatives paid a visit to a total of 51 achieve continuous development in the area of CCI, the Evaluation of Supplier Sustainable Management suppliers in 2014 through its win-win cooperative program, company seeks to expand its CCI opportunities inside and At all worksites in Korea and China, Doosan Infracore reconducted evaluations in the areas of environmental protecoutside its premises while focusing on activities that are flects supplier candidates’ performance in employee traintion, safety, and firefighting, and offered relevant education helpful to local communities. ing, labor management, environmental management and and training. The company assisted 12 suppliers in their regulatory compliance in its evaluation of the candidates acquisition of certification by a public agency as an excelO UR APPROAC H Suppliers prior to supplier registration. In North America, Bobcat Comlent worksite in risk assessment. For suppliers operating Doosan Infracore has established global strategies for CCI pany includes performance in the fields of human rights in Korea, Doosan Infracore regularly publishes newsletters in line with the principles that Doosan Group applies to and child labor in the evaluation of its suppliers. Doosan containing information on worksite safety. The Incheon and its promotion of CCI. As such, it engages in CCI activities Infracore has continued to expand the scope of its suppliGunsan plants in Korea were awarded the highest class Local Communities customized to the needs of local communities under the er evaluations. It ultimately conducted a comprehensive (class A) by the Ministry of Employment and Labor for their premise of support for local communities’ growth, employranking evaluation, including an evaluation of sustainable engagement programs in 2014. The Incheon plant has won ee engagement, and integrity. Doosan Day of Community Service management, of 99% of its contracts with suppliers in terms the recognition for three straight years since 2012. In China, of the amount of transactions made in Korea in 2014. In the company taps into its EHS checklist to diagnose and China, Doosan Infracore carries out a comprehensive ranking manage supplier safety and healthcare status on a monthly Central / Local Government evaluation of its suppliers once a year. In the USA, Bobcat basis. In 2014, it selected four major suppliers and conductCompany carried out surveys on CSR activities among its ed an in-depth diagnosis of their performance in environsuppliers in the second half of 2014. It is considering a CSR mental protection, healthcare, and safety, and is monitoring education program for its suppliers on the basis of the surthe progress of recommended improvements. vey results in 2015. Spread of Ethical Management PERF O RMANC E C HART To establish a fair trade culture among suppliers, Doosan Media Infracore supports their adoption of CP and compliance with the Subcontracting Act. In 2014, seven additional supGlobal Corporate Community Corporate Community Involvement Programs Customized to Percentage of Excellent Suppliers in General Ranking Evaluation (%) Involvement Strategies 1 Local Communities 2 pliers declared their adoption of CP. Doosan Infracore also encourages its primary suppliers to sign the shared growth 2013 RESULTS 2014 RESULTS 2015 TARGET agreement with the company’s secondary suppliers, thus Korea 64.4 71.1 10%+ improvement over 2014 promoting fair trade and shared growth. In addition, Doosan China 70.5 78.2 issue 2 01 4 t a r g e t 2 01 4 p e r fo rma n c e a c h i e ve 201 5 pla n Infracore requests all suppliers to sign the ethical supplier 1 Establishment of global Establishment of CCI guidelines for Establishment and distribution of global Expansion of roll-out regions (EMEA, etc.) CCI strategies overseas worksites CCI guidelines (North America/China) management pledge upon initial registration. It also offers Korea China 2  CCI Programs Development of fund businesses Implementation of corporate community Regional expansion of implementation its suppliers CP education to reduce its own subcontracting Customized to Local Provision of two workshops for involvement activities according to local Enhancement of competency of employees in risks and promote a fair trade culture companywide. Communities working level employees needs (Seoul, Incheon, Gunsan) charge of local involvement 78.2 71.1 70.5 64.4 F UTURE DIREC TIO N S 71.1 : Influential stakeholders in each area Korea Construction of a global CCI Expansion of employees’ CCI Implementation of CCI activities Development of CCI programs system by establishing integrated opportunities by enhancing that are of practical that align to the business and 78.2 China CCI guidelines applicable to overseas worksites. intra-company communities. help to recipients, taking into account the traits of worksites reflect social demands. and local communities. 2013 2014 2013 2014 84 85 2014 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report 48 CSR MANAGEMENT SYSTEM & MANAGEMENT OVERVIEW 74 ESTABLISHMENT OF THE INTEGRATED EHS SYSTEM Our CSR Performance 62 ENHANCEMENT OF CUSTOMER VALUE AND QUALITY COMPETITIVENESS 80 MUTUAL GROWTH WITH OUR SUPPLIERS 68 EMPLOYEE VALUE PROPOSITION 85 SUPPORTING DEVELOPMENT OF LOCAL COMMUNITIES GLOBAL CORPORATE CCI PROGRAMS CUSTOMIZED TO The Seoul Office is focused on providing midto longto serve as mentors and work as advisors and emotional COMMUNITY INVOLVEMENT (CCI) STRATEGIES LOCAL COMMUNITIES term support for low-income housing in the Dongdaemun supporters of the young for one year. Since 2012, a total of Gate area. It is also proceeding with improvements in living 346 students and 290 Doosan Infracore employees particiBased on continuous communication with employees and Doosan Infracore believes a business must be a responsible conditions, including replacing conventional wallpaper with pated in various activities, including professional mentoring its experience with diverse forms of CCI initiatives, Doosan member of the local communities in which it operates and insulated paper, as well as programs designed to improve programs, dream camps, occupational experiences and Infracore has developed a solid consensus within the orgathat the communities must be able to grow together with residents’ welfare with a budget of around KRW 90 million interviews, and school visitations. In the process, students nization on the promotion of corporate social responsibility the business. Doosan Infracore is promoting CCI programs for three years starting in 2014. At the Incheon plant, emdiscover specific goals in life. as a core value of the Doosan Way. In 2014, the company customized to its local communities on the basis of its uniployees and their family members have joined forces to imestablished a strategic global CCI model and system to versal CCI strategies while seeking to implement CCI activiprove the company’s corporate image in the area by paintA study on the results of Dream School 2014 showed both apply to all its worksites around the world. In addition to ties that will support the growth of future generations and ing murals on old walls and cleaning up neighborhoods. the students and their mentors achieved positive progress. CCI programs being promoted at the corporate level, each use the company’s capabilities. The plant aims to earn the recognition of local residents Doosan Infracore is planning to run Dream School Plus for worksite and business group of Doosan Infracore has a as a responsible local corporate citizen that gives back the 2012-2014 graduates of Dream School. According to the number of volunteer groups initiated and run by employees. Enhancement of Each Business Group’s CCI Executive Ability through various activities reflecting their particular welfare current plan, Dream School Plus will consist of two classes: The company’s diverse support programs encourage emTo build a culture of mutual prosperity with local communeeds. At the Gunsan plant, employees support regional Dream +1 for 80 middle school students, and Dream +2 for ployees to increase their engagement in CCI initiatives. nities, Doosan Infracore is promoting a diverse set of CCI childcare centers by donating their talents so children there 40 high school students. The mentors will focus on helping activities suited to the characteristics of the neighborhoods can experience learn about culture, as the industrial area students find the right career paths while engaging in activEstablishment of Global CCI Strategies surrounding the worksites. Also, the company holds worklacks cultural facilities for children. Employees are happy ities designed for their personal growth. Based on their own Directions of CCI promotion: For more systematic impleing level workshops with relevant authorities, including its to have the chance to share their talents with children. In self-development plans, the students will engage in diverse mentation of its CCI activities, the company has focused its partner agencies and local welfare centers, more than twice 2014, technical employees of the plant checked the safety community activities under the guidance of professional CCI efforts on the following three areas: (1) support for the a year to identify and implement CCI programs required by of the childcare centers and carried out necessary repair youth coaches. In addition, the Dream Camp will be held growth of future generations; (2) promotion of CCI initiatives local communities. Through continuous communication and work. They also opened a safety camp for children to help on an annual basis. Three variations of the Support System associated with its lines of business; and (3) support for the collaboration with relevant worksites, divisions at the corpothem prevent accidents. They donated heating and cooling Enhancement Program, including education on patrons, will growth of local communities. Each worksite also promotes rate headquarters and government agencies, the company systems to the childcare centers, too. At the Changwon also be held. Furthermore, the Dream EXPO is scheduled for its own CCI initiatives customized to their local communities. continues to enhance its implementation ability. The comPlant, all employees participated in a blood donation camthe end of 2015, during which presentations summing up pany promotes CCI for each worksite with the resources of paign. In partnership with the regional resident center, they the annual activities will be made. CCI education and awards for employee CCI participation: the Employee Fund and deposits in the Community Chest to also volunteered to serve free lunch to people in need in The company’s training courses for new recruits, including bring practical improvements to local communities through its community on the last Friday of each month. Starting in Doosan Hope Elementary Schools in China: Under the slocareer employees, include mandatory CCI education proemployees’ active engagement. When selecting beneficiaries, 2015, the plant plans to sign a support agreement for eight gan of “We will build a beautiful China together,” Doosan grams covering the direction of Doosan’s CCI initiatives, Doosan Infracore asks related public agencies, including local childcare centers and offer them assistance with both Infracore China Corporation (DICC) is carrying out Project Doosan’s major CCI activities, and guidance on how to welfare offices based in local communities, for recommendacommodities and volunteer services. DICC in China took part Hope, which consists of building elementary schools in engage in and build consensus on the necessity of CSR tions in an effort to boost transparency and efficiency in the in an environmental protection event called “I Love Yantai’ less developed areas of China. Since 2001, the company activities. In addition, Doosan Infracore has built a CCI inprocess, with the focus placed on enhancing local communiin April 2014. Hosted by the Korean Chamber of Commerce has donated some 10.25 million RMB (about KRW 1.79 bilformation system within its work portal and runs an award ties’ competence. in Yantai, the campaign was designed to increase exchanges lion) to impoverished areas, and built 34 Hope Elementary system, including the companywide CCI Award under the between Chinese citizens and Korean expatriates in the city Schools, bringing hope to children in need all around the CSR Award. In the USA, Bobcat Company is developing a through various activities. country. Since 2007, DICC has run the Doosan Hope Travel CCI performance management system and an award system Summer Camp every summer and implemented the honfor employees who achieve an outstanding record in CCI Support for the Next Generation orary school principal system. The summer camp, which activities. Doosan Infracore’s support for the next generation is aimed enables students to enjoy cultural experiences while having 2014 Employee Participation in CCI Fund Raising at helping children build a brighter, more hopeful tomorrow fun, is participated in by teachers and students of Doosan Salary donation and voluntary clubs: Approximately 90% of by offering them opportunities to study, experience diverse Hope Elementary Schools around the country. Under the Description No. of employees Participation ratio employees in Korea participate in one or both of two camcultural programs, and chart their future with confidence. honorary school principal system, Doosan Infracore dealers Participants in CCI fund raising 4,807 86% paigns Donate small change from your salary and open a are appointed as honorary school principals who deal with donation account to raise company CCI funds. Also, workDream School and Dream School Plus: The Dream School is customers. Doosan Infracore donates 1,000 RMB for each ers at each worksite around the country have organized a project designed to help young people find their dreams piece of equipment sold by the principals at various events, Amount of Employee CCI Contribution (excludes employer’s matching contributions) Unit: KRW 1mil. including the Technical Exchange Fair. voluntary groups and demonstrated a commitment to their by developing positive perspectives of their future and their neighbors. At each worksite, Doosan Infracore employees chosen occupation. The Dream School is run for first and and supplier employers regularly join forces to engage in second graders at middle schools who are recommended by volunteer services. The company provides an annual aver11 agencies in four regions (Seoul, Incheon, Changwon and age of KRW 1 million to each volunteer group to help them Gunsan) in Korea. Doosan Infracore employees volunteer perform social services on a continuous basis. 227 202 185 202 Participants in Dream School Term Period No. of Mentees No. of Mentees Dream School Follow-up Program 1 2012.1~2013.1 120 87 2 2013.1~2014.1 122 104 122 3 2014.1~2015.1 104 145 81 Total 346 249 290 2012 2013 2014 86 87 2014 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report 48 CSR MANAGEMENT SYSTEM & MANAGEMENT OVERVIEW 74 ESTABLISHMENT OF THE INTEGRATED EHS SYSTEM Our CSR Performance 62 ENHANCEMENT OF CUSTOMER VALUE AND QUALITY COMPETITIVENESS 80 MUTUAL GROWTH WITH OUR SUPPLIERS 68 EMPLOYEE VALUE PROPOSITION 85 SUPPORTING DEVELOPMENT OF LOCAL COMMUNITIES Support through the Company’s Work Capabilities Junior Technical School: A talent donation-based CCI acDoosan Infracore also makes the best use of its business tivity, the Junior Technical School, which consists largely resources for its CCI activities, including its expertise in meof company researchers specializing in natural sciences DOOSAN DAY OF COMMUNITY SERVICE chanical engineering and its lineup of heavy equipment and and engineering, supports elementary school students in machine tools. The company plans to promote its CCI with making hands-on kits together and learning about sciena goal of helping its CCI service recipients stand on their tific principles. Launched in 2008, the group conducted its own through its products and training centers. 2014 program for child patients at Seoul National University Bundang Hospital and its program for elementary school Support for construction equipment operation courses: To students in the Changyong social welfare facility near the 1 In June 2014, Doosan Infracore launched Global Volunteer Week, during which its help youth who are qualified to leave child welfare instiIncheon plant. employees around the world engaged in CCI activities together. It also expanded tutions become financially independent, Doosan Infracore the implementation of Dream Community Day from Korea to North America and plans to offer education on the operation of construction Equipment and model donation: Doosan Infracore donates China. On October 24, 2014, the company further developed the event into the equipment and help them obtain licenses through its Conits in-house test engines and models made in the process Doosan Day of Community Service, on which all worksites around the world enstruction Equipment Education Center in Ansan, Korea. In of product development to local communities as educagaged in CCI activities to create opportunities for Doosan and local communities to become one through win-win cooperation. preparation for the education, the company launched tional materials. In 2014, the company donated a mock-up a three-month trial education course on the operation of SMX, the company’s next-generation multitasking machine 2 During the Global Volunteer Week held in the first half of the year, employees construction equipment, including excavators and forklifts, tool, to the Changwon Science Center to enable young stuin Korea took part in CCI activities under the theme Nest of Love. They visited in 2014. Starting in 2015, the company plans to run the eddents to observe the principles and structure of a machine welfare facilities in the neighborhoods of the company worksites, delivered gifts, ucation program as one of its regular annual CCI activities. tool firsthand. The 1:5 scale mock-up was built at the prodand helped clean. In the USA, employees from various locations such as Fargo, Through the official course, the company will help trainees uct development stage to exactly the same specifications Suwanee and Gwinner cleaned up zoos and parks and repaired local residents’ obtain construction equipment operation licenses for excaas the full-size SMX tool. homes on the Doosan Day of Caring. Employees in China engaged in environvators and forklifts, and provide those who complete the mental beautification activities, including the cleaning up of streams and eco course with a bankbook for their congratulatory money and parks around their worksites. Meanwhile, employees in the Beijing branch office 3 training allowance as a way to celebrate their first steps cleaned nearby apartment complexes, delivered rice and other daily necessities, taught Korean songs to children, and made accessories with people with disabiltoward becoming adult members of society. ities living in the complexes. The proceeds raised from the sale of accessories were donated to a welfare organization specializing in caring for the disabled. On the Doosan Day of Community Service launched in the second half of 2014, more than 10,000 employees of Doosan Group around the world engaged in CCI activities in their respective local communities. At Doosan Infracore, 5,264 em4 ployees from 26 worksites in nine countries took part in volunteer services in 138 locations. Employees of the Seoul office donated their lunch tickets to buy and deliver daily necessities to the residents of low-income housing in Changsin-dong near Doosan Tower. At the Changwon plant, employees engaged in the cleanup of Namsancheon Stream and its surroundings designated as the company’s responsibility under the One Company One Stream cleanup campaign. In addition, employees at the Incheon, Gunsan and Changwon plants and Seoul office made 5 kimchi (a traditional fermented side dish made of vegetables with a variety of seasonings) and delivered kimchi they prepared themselves to local communities. In the USA, meanwhile, a variety of activities involving food took place. Employees at the Bismarck office prepared lunch boxes to deliver to the underprivileged and cleaned up nearby highway sections. Employees at the Fargo office donated food. Doosan Infracore in Europe also participated in the event in earnest by donating food to the Food Bank in various regions. Employees in Ireland cleaned 6 up a local stream. DISA employees in Brazil participated in a blood donation campaign, and also visited an orphanage to improve the facility through painting and cleaning work. In China, DISD employees formed groups and engaged in the cleanup of the Muping River, offered farmers a helping hand, and served in a nursing home. Overall, participants in the Doosan Day of Community Service said they felt proud of having rendered invaluable service to their communities, and became much closer to both their colleagues at work and residents of the communities. Doosan Group and all its subsidiaries are planning to hold Doosan Days of Community Service twice a year with the aim of helping local communities and achieving harmony in those communities. 1. Bobcat North America – Delivery of food through local welfare facilities 2. Bobcat Gwinner, the USA – Repair and maintenance for local welfare facilities 3. Bobcat Bismarck, the USA – Highway cleanup service 4. Czech Bobcat Dobris – Raising funds to purchase wheelchairs Mural painting participated by employees and their family (Incheon) 5. Incheon, Korea – Making kimchi Dream School, a program designed to help youth realize their dreams 6. DISC & DICC, China – Services at nursing homes Repair service for public childcare centers in communities in the form of talent donation (Gunsan) 88 89 Appendix 2014 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF FINANCIAL POSITION As of December 31, 2014 and 2013 (Unit: KRW) Description FY2014 FY2013 ASSETS CURRENT ASSETS: 4,019,500,373,301 3,706,205,672,474 Cash and cash equivalents 362,952,767,457 287,837,894,710 Short-term financial instruments 536,439,120,645 476,689,896,477 Short-term investment securities 7,440,999,728 10,615,626 Trade and other receivables, less allowance for doubtful accounts 1,238,907,952,584 1,332,548,957,307 APPENDIX Derivative assets 12,104,816,893 42,058,214,557 Inventories 1,705,076,985,802 1,489,497,127,395 Assets held for sale 0 440,866,076 91p. Consolidated Financial Statements 95p. CSR Facts & Figures 99p. Independent Auditors' Report Other current assets 156,577,730,192 77,122,100,326 NON-CURRENT ASSETS: 7,937,927,053,907 7,775,287,867,964 Long-term financial instruments 2,011,500,000 2,011,500,000 Long-term investment securities 87,816,767,174 9,187,861,752 100p. Report on the Assessment of Internal Accounting Control System (IACS) Long-term trade and other receivables, less allowance for doubtful accounts 10,600,551,073 3,509,019,686 Non-current derivative assets 100,821,253 1,776,066,413 101p. Independent Assurance Report 103p. Global Network Property, plant and equipment, net 2,282,571,856,345 2,256,581,320,986 Intangible assets, net 4,632,573,417,301 4,739,850,232,360 Investment property, net 27,374,497,403 28,306,350,354 Investments in joint ventures and associates 121,446,546,400 154,127,200,055 Deferred income tax assets 660,480,812,191 463,420,422,875 Other non-current assets 112,950,284,767 116,517,893,483 TOTAL ASSETS 11,957,427,427,208 11,481,493,540,438 LIABILITIES CURRENT LIABILITIES: 3,294,509,951,392 2,753,667,942,752 Trade and other payables 1,218,877,369,478 1,119,257,063,688 Short-term borrowings 1,153,808,869,334 730,370,021,070 Current portion of bonds 69,931,995,390 426,872,492,128 Current portion of long-term borrowings 393,318,014,512 84,927,848,154 Income taxes payable 29,233,399,624 33,732,288,923 Derivative liabilities 20,280,675,491 1,111,137,066 Provisions 176,710,494,285 148,532,912,250 Other current liabilities 232,349,133,278 208,864,179,473 NON-CURRENT LIABILITIES : 5,374,629,216,635 5,178,805,345,405 Other non-current payables 14,203,961,914 20,695,021,176 Bonds 1,899,812,149,246 1,764,755,744,200 Long-term borrwoings 2,568,608,228,983 2,637,741,509,672 Retirement benefit obligation 617,054,600,475 564,414,857,221 Non-current derivative liabilities 477,494,787 0 Deferred income tax liabilities 6,150,128,883 8,002,730,726 Non-current provisions 3,354,817,136 5,549,688,773 Other non-current liabilities 264,967,835,211 177,645,793,637 Total Liabilities 8,669,139,168,027 7,932,473,288,157 EQUITY Equity attributable to owners of the parent 2,799,138,578,792 2,986,855,517,363 Capital stock 1,037,276,570,000 1,037,276,570,000 Capital surplus 240,200,109,681 237,381,189,581 Capital securities 508,259,603,649 508,259,603,649 Other equity items (31,315,390,978) (26,387,480,016) Accumulated other comprehensive loss (251,078,990,355) (83,127,632,799) Retained earnings 1,295,796,676,795 1,313,453,266,948 Non-controlling interests 489,149,680,389 562,164,734,918 Total Equity 3,288,288,259,181 3,549,020,252,281 TOTAL LIABILITIES AND EQUITY 11,957,427,427,208 11,481,493,540,438 90 91 Appendix 2014 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN EQUITY For the years ended December 31, 2014 and 2013 (Unit: KRW) For the years ended December 31, 2014 and 2013 (Unit: KRW) Description FY2014 FY2013 Description Capital stock Capital surplus Capital securities Other equity items Accumulated other comRetained earnings Non-controlling interests Total prehensive income(loss) (deficit) SALES 7,688,557,930,487 7,736,830,293,865 Balance at January 1, 2013 843,290,170,000 14,254,797,512 508,259,603,649 (30,403,879,853) (177,960,866,635) 1,299,786,309,414 551,573,179,966 3,008,799,314,053 COST OF SALES 5,975,985,523,020 6,089,337,802,977 Cumulative effects of change in accounting policy GROSS PROFIT 1,712,572,407,467 1,647,492,490,888 Balance at January 1, 2013, after adjustment 843,290,170,000 14,254,797,512 508,259,603,649 (30,403,879,853) (177,960,866,635) 1,299,786,309,414 551,573,179,966 3,008,799,314,053 Selling and administrative expenses 1,259,577,970,223 1,277,992,100,880 CHANGES IN EQUITY OPERATING INCOME(LOSS) 452,994,437,244 369,500,390,008 Net income(loss) (101,756,286,055) 806,347,782 (100,949,938,273) Finance income 150,956,006,505 173,794,728,373 Remeasurements of net defined benefit liabilities 128,656,116,582 13,657,803,698 142,313,920,280 Finance expense 580,078,979,842 532,454,814,457 Revaluation and disposal of property, plant and equipment 164,526,295,394 306,523,007 1,156,396,605 165,989,215,006 Other non-operating income 41,492,170,772 28,786,137,744 Gain(loss) on valuation of available-for-sale financial assets (23,922,052) (23,922,052) Other non-operating expense 105,834,151,522 69,556,686,922 Increase(decrease) in equity of associates (720,654,126) (720,654,126) Share of profit(loss) of joint ventures and associates (34,746,279,417) (8,014,965,285) Gain(loss) on translation of foreign operations (48,822,956,821) 251,408,026 (48,571,548,795) Gain(loss) on valuation of derivatives (20,125,528,559) (20,125,528,559) Gain(loss) on disposal of investment in joint ventures and associates 0 0 Capital increase 193,986,400,000 219,628,416,169 413,614,816,169 Impairment loss of investment in associates 0 (19,018,488,883) Extinguishment of share options 3,497,975,900 (3,497,975,900) Income(expense) from continuing operations before income tax expense (75,216,796,260) (56,963,699,422) Share-based payment 2,233,974,578 2,233,974,578 INCOME TAX BENEFIT(EXPENSE) (99,189,007,741) 43,986,238,851 Issuance of capital securities Income(loss) from continuing operations 23,972,211,481 (100,949,938,273) Conversion of convertible preferred stock Income(loss) from discontinued operations 0 0 Capital increase with consideration in subsidiaries (2,448,078,041) 2,448,078,041 NET INCOME(LOSS) 23,972,211,481 (100,949,938,273) Partial disposal of investment in subsidiary Attributable to: Owners of the parent 41,965,483,233 (101,756,286,055) Business transfer amongst consolidated entities 7,728,479,200 (7,728,479,200) Non-controlling interests (17,993,271,752) 806,347,782 Net effect of changes in accounting policy EARNINGS(LOSS) PER SHARE Dividends (13,539,396,000) (13,539,396,000) Others Basic earnings(loss) per share from continuing operations 202 (596) Balance at December 31, 2013 1,037,276,570,000 237,381,189,581 508,259,603,649 (26,387,480,016) (83,127,632,799) 1,313,453,266,948 562,164,734,918 3,549,020,252,281 Diluted earnings(loss) per share from continuing operations 202 (596) Balance at January 1, 2014 1,037,276,570,000 237,381,189,581 508,259,603,649 (26,387,480,016) (83,127,632,799) 1,313,453,266,948 562,164,734,918 3,549,020,252,281 Basic earnings(loss) per share 202 (596) Cumulative effects of change in accounting policy Diluted earnings(loss) per share 202 (596) Balance at January 1, 2014, after adjustment 1,037,276,570,000 237,381,189,581 508,259,603,649 (26,387,480,016) (83,127,632,799) 1,313,453,266,948 562,164,734,918 3,549,020,252,281 CHANGES IN EQUITY Net income (loss) 41,965,483,233 (17,993,271,752) 23,972,211,481 Remeasurements of net defined benefit liabilities (42,403,573,386) (6,335,125,144) (48,738,698,530) Revaluation and disposal of property, plant and equipment (86,389,693) (105,500,304) (191,889,997) CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME Gain(loss) on valuation of available-for-sale (891,617,273) (891,617,273) For the years ended December 31, 2014 and 2013 (Unit: KRW) Increase(decrease) in equity of associates 390,346,555 390,346,555 Gain(loss) on translation of foreign operations (125,206,927,678) (36,788,361,599) (161,995,289,277) Description FY2014 FY2013 Gain(loss) on valuation of derivatives (42,156,769,467) (42,156,769,467) NET INCOME(LOSS) 23,972,211,481 (100,949,938,273) Capital transactions with shareholders Items not reclassified subsequently to profit or loss (48,930,588,527) 308,303,135,286 Extinguishment of share options 2,818,920,100 (2,818,920,100) Re-measurements of net defined benefit liabilities (48,738,698,530) 142,313,920,280 Share-based payment 2,061,052,408 2,061,052,408 Issuance of capital securities Revaluation of property, plant and equipment (191,889,997) 165,989,215,006 Conversion of convertible preferred stock Items reclassified subsequently to profit or loss (204,653,329,462) (69,441,653,532) Capital increase with consideration in subsidiaries (154,722,560) 154,722,560 Gain(loss) on valuation of avaliable-for-sale financial assets (891,617,273) (23,922,052) Partial disposal of investment in subsidiary Increase(decrease) in equity of associates 390,346,555 (720,654,126) Capital securities dividends (17,218,500,000) (17,218,500,000) Gain(loss) on translation of foreign operations (161,995,289,277) (48,571,548,795) Consideration in subsidiaries dividends (11,199,500,000) (11,199,500,000) Gain(loss) on valuation of cash flow hedge derivatives (42,156,769,467) (20,125,528,559) Additional acquisition of investment in subsidiaries (4,015,320,710) (748,018,290) (4,763,339,000) TOTAL COMPREHENSIVE INCOME(LOSS) (229,611,706,508) 137,911,543,481 Others Owners of the parent (168,389,447,709) 122,039,587,370 Balance at December 31, 2013 1,037,276,570,000 240,200,109,681 508,259,603,649 (31,315,390,978) (251,078,990,355) 1,295,796,676,795 489,149,680,389 3,288,288,259,181 Non-controlling interests (61,222,258,799) 15,871,956,111 92 93 Appendix 2014 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CSR FACTS & FIGURES CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS * The following data were based on the company HQ in Korea. For the years ended December 31, 2014 and 2013 (Unit: KRW) category 1 category 2 2012 2013 2014 note Description FY2014 FY2013 ECONOMIC CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES 231,295,747,377 481,934,725,495 Economic growth: Consolidated Sales 8,158,351 7,736,830 7,688,558 Cash generated from operations 555,151,322,498 760,438,890,834 business results (KRW million) Operating income 362,417 369,500 452,994 Net income (loss) 23,972,211,481 (100,949,938,273) Net income 393,343 (100,950) 23,972 Non-consolidated Sales 4,243,619 3,827,352 4,196,729 Adjustments 631,606,364,813 737,408,867,508 2012 figures altered due to the application of new accounting standards Operating income 53,691 (19,514) 94,336 Changes in operating assets and liabilities (100,427,253,796) 123,979,961,599 (on the basis of business reports) Net income (121,315) (120,358) 47,005 Interest received 19,973,052,924 21,276,076,828 Financial soundness: Consolidated Total assets 11,544,990 11,481,494 11,957,427 Interest paid (287,634,670,235) (285,422,726,836) asset status (KRW million) Total liabilities 8,536,191 7,932,473 8,669,139 Dividends received 358,725,586 1,027,636,796 Total equity 3,008,799 3,549,021 3,288,288 2012 figures altered due to the application of new accounting standards Income tax paid (56,552,683,396) (15,385,152,127) Non-consolidated Total assets 6,763,982 6,905,923 7,209,203 (on the basis of business reports) CASH FLOWS FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES (428,522,453,573) (595,347,429,015) Total liabilities 4,620,963 4,331,045 4,643,677 Cash inflows from investing activities 11,351,584,591 26,729,701,200 Total equity 2,143,019 2,574,878 2,565,526 Disposal of long-term financial instruments 328,177,201 173,836,508 Credit rating A A AProvided by Korea Investors Service Decrease in loans 0 23,940,469,187 Governance structure (%) Board Directors participation rate 94 80 85 (outside directors) Disposal of property, plant and equipment 7,744,237,289 2,615,395,505 Customer satisfaction (No. of breaches) Customer information security breaches 0 0 0 Based on the company HQ. Disposal of intangible assets 1,792,441,522 0 Ethical management (%) Completion ratio of ethics education 99.4 99.3 99.5 Once per year/person Disposal of investment properties 1,486,728,579 0 Ratio of worksites carrying out corrup100 100 100 Number of worksites carrying out corruption risk analysis / Cash outflows for investing activities (439,874,038,164) (622,077,130,215) tion risk analysis Number of total worksites Increase in short-term financial assets 52,165,520,823 254,395,216,473 Acquisition of investment in joint ventures and associates 0 35,000,000,000 EMPLOYEES Increase in long-term financial instruments 0 0 Total no. of employees Total (Korea) 5,764 5,655 5,956 Excluding dispatched employees (E-HR based on December 31, 2014) Acquisition of long-term investment securities 86,515,394,647 24,258,582 (No. of people) Total (Global) 15,206 14,309 14,167 Korea 5,740 + Overseas 8,778 Increase in loans 2,871,717,946 0 By job Office 3,570 3,436 3,605 Acquisition of property, plant and equipment 214,804,217,376 239,329,631,970 (No. of people) Technical 2,194 2,219 2,351 By employment type Non-regular 191 140 341 Contracted jobs1) Acquisition of intangible assets 83,517,187,372 93,328,023,190 (No. of people, %) Ratio of non-regular 3.3 2.5 5.7 Non-regular / Total (Korea)*100 CASH FLOWS FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES 281,366,726,641 (80,201,261,384) Diversity Disabled 121 121 118 Based on E-HR; national disabled classification (levels 1~6) Cash inflows from financing activities 2,745,612,014,169 1,391,885,962,919 (No. of people) National merit recipients 145 141 158 Based on E-HR; national merit recipients (merit no. or approved people) Increase of borrowings 2,526,270,552,169 357,841,063,250 Elderly 233 278 643 Elderly: 55 and over (based on total-Korea) Issuance of bonds 219,341,462,000 620,430,083,500 Males 5,289 5,176 5,470 Capital increase 0 413,614,816,169 Females 475 479 486 Exercise of share option 0 0 Annual employee turnover rate (%) Total (Korea) 1.6 1.3 1.9 Monthly employee turnover / monthly total no. of employees*100 Issuance of capital securities 0 0 Turnover by age (%) 20’s 0.6 0.3 0.4 Turnover by age = number of turnover2) employees by age / Cash outflows for financing activities (2,464,245,287,528) (1,472,087,224,303) 30’s 0.8 0.7 0.9 monthly average of employeesx100 Repayment of borrowings 1,969,400,189,912 974,225,224,303 40’s 0.1 0.2 0.2 over 50’s 0.0 0.1 0.2 Repayment of bonds 461,663,758,616 480,000,000,000 Average annual training hours per person Office 175 154 179 The 2013 data calculated offline only. Dividends 17,218,500,000 17,862,000,000 (hours) The new data include online figures, too. Consideration in subsidiaries dividends 11,199,500,000 Technical 31 31 42 Additional acquisition of investment in subsidiaries 4,763,339,000 Average training expenses Office 5,127 2,490 3,049 The 2012~2013 training expenses revised on the basis of ERP-based EFFECT OF EXCHANGE RATE CHANGES IN CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS (9,025,147,698) 18,957,567,185 per person (KRW 1,000) comanywide education and training expenses Net increase(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 75,114,872,747 (174,656,397,719) Technical 289 221 298 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS, BEGINNING OF THE YEAR 287,837,894,710 462,494,292,429 No. of employees on parental leave Males 158 171 197 Employees who started their paternity leave in 2014 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS, END OF THE YEAR 362,952,767,457 287,837,894,710 (No. of people) Females 24 38 37 Employees who started their maternity leave in 2014 Return to work rate following Females 100 100 100 Maternity leave ending in 2014 maternity leave (%) Employees on childcare leave Females 8 30 35 Employes who started their childcare leave in 2014 (No. of people) Return to work rate following Females 60 99 97 Number of employees who have left the company right after childcare childcare leave (%) leaves / Total humber of employees on childcare leaves (2014 ) Union membership rate (%) 82.5 82.2 81.9 Technical employees at production units (1,723 subscribed out of 2,104 employees) Sexual harassment 5,466 4,880 5,370 education (No. of people) 1) Contracted jobs: Commissioned jobs, commissioned technical jobs, outside directors, advisors, consultants, and externally commissioned jobs) 2) No. of turnover: Number of employees who have left for employment in other companies or personal reasons (except for retirement or contract termination) 94 95 Appendix 2014 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report CSR FACTS & FIGURES category 1 category 2 2012 2013 2014 note category 1 category 2 category 3 2012 2013 2014 note SOCIETY ENVIRONMENTAL Financial support for suppliers No. of financial recipients 128 180 145 Greenhouse gas emissions Gunsan Total 16,606 18,701 18,134 Total emissions from other worksites on the basis of the (No. of suppliers, KRW 100 million, %, No. of Financial amount provided 457 1,052 777.5 (including indirect and Scope 1 8,320 10,048 9,572 company's 2014 GHG emissions statement (incluidng Ansan, payments) (excluding indirect support) direct emissions) Scope 2 8,286 8,652 8,562 Suji, Seoul, rented office buildings, sales branches, etc.) Ratio of cash settlement cases 41.6 41.0 43.7 (tonCO2eq, Basic unit: Others Total 11,126 No. of price payments Three times monthly Three times monthly Three times monthly tonCO2eq/KRW million) Scope 1 2,101 Scope 2 9,032 Technical development support for suppliers No. of technical development 95 55 59 Wastewater volume (ton) Companywide, Korea 114,933 103,461 92,213 Data for 2012 modified (No. of companies / No. of cases) cases supported Incheon 95,420 84,630 71,732 No. of technical protection 21 22 21 Changwon 11,843 11,108 12,420 cases supported Gunsan 7,670 7,723 8,061 Education support for suppliers (No. of people) 3,519 3,290 722 Water pollutant emissions Incheon BOD 2.5 6.6 2.9 Legal limit: 120mg/L. Company limit: 48mg/L Competitiveness enhancement support for 3,111 2013 performance totaling criteria was changed volume (mg/L) COD 10.2 11.2 13.9 Legal limit: 130mg/L. Company limit: 52mg/L suppliers (Man-Day, No. of people) 47 124 Suspended solids 2.0 4.5 1.3 Legal limit: 120mg/L. Company limit: 48mg/L Provision of casting molds to strengthen suppliers’ 589 592 488 Changwon BOD Legal limit: 130mg/L. Company limit: 52mg/L capacity of developing parts 235 277 280 COD 5.6 5.7 7.0 Legal limit: 130mg/L. Company limit: 52mg/L (No. of companies, KRW 100 million) Suspended solids 2 0.5 2.6 Legal limit: 130mg/L. Company limit: 52mg/L EHS support for suppliers (No. of companies) 76 61 74 Gunsan BOD 90 113 141 Legal limit: 400mg/L, Company limit: 160mg/L CP adoption support for suppliers 12 10 7 Suppliers who declared to introduce CP COD 110 112 132 Legal limit: 400mg/L, Company limit: 160mg/L (No. of companies) Suspended solids 18 10 8 Legal limit: 200mg/L, Company limit: 80mg/L Employee participation in corporate community 4,275 5,322 3,912 Air pollutants Incheon NOx 2.5 0.8 3.9 Legal limit 200ppm, Company limit 80ppm involvement activities (No. of people) (ppm, Dust: mg/m3) SOx 0 6.6 7.3 Legal limit 400ppm, Company limit 160ppm Corporate community involvement investments 149 135 119 VOCs 11.7/26.0 6.4/14.1 15.1/14.2 Legal limit 40/200ppm, Company limit 32/160ppm (KRW 100 million, %) 0.35 0.35 0.15 CSR investments/sales 먼지 2.6/2.6 4.2/3.5 4.2/3.8 Legal limit 20/50mg/m3, Company limit 8/20mg/m3 Employee participation in “Salary Fraction No. of participants 4,895 5,000 4,807 Excluding temporary overseas dispatch, etc. Changwon VOCs 25 18 23 Legal limit: 200ppm, Company limit: 160ppm Donation” campaign (No. of people, %) Percentage of participants (89.7) (88) (86) (No NOx, SOx) 먼지 5 4 5 Legal limit: 50mg/m3, Company limit: 20mg/m3 Annual fund raised by Salary Fraction Donation 182,327 226,573 201,916 NOx 0.14 0.13 0.04 Legal limit: 200ppm, Company limit: 80ppm campaign (KRW 1,000) Gunsan SOx 1.15 1.58 0.20 Legal limit: 400ppm, Company limit: 160ppm VOCs 2.73 4.45 4.02 Legal limit: 40ppm, Company limit: 32ppm ENVIRONMENTAL 먼지 2.43 1.76 2.11 Legal limit: 50mg/m3, Company limit: 20mg/m3 Environmental investments 200 196 102 Ozone depleting substances Incheon CFC, HCFC, CH₃Br, R-22 and operating costs (KRW 100 million) Changwon CFC, HCFC, CH₃Br, R-22 No ozone depleting susbtances ISO 14001 (EMS) certification (No. of workplaces) Korea 3 3 6 Incheon, Gunsan, Changwon Namsan, Changwon Gunsan CFC, HCFC, CH₃Br, R-22 Daewon, Changwon Seongju, Ansan Waste emissions and Companywide, Korea Total volume of waste 54,932 52,911 44,661 Energy usage volume Companywide, Total 2,978 3,121 2,990 recycling rate Recycled volume 47,452 41,542 (Including direct and indirect usage) (TJ) Korea LNG 382 380 355 (ton, Recycling rate: %) Recycling rate 90% 93% Power 2,396 2,489 2,397 Incheon General waste 49,872 48,014 39,705 Diesel 179 220 213 Specified waste 2,637 2,801 2,440 Others (LPG, kerosene, etc.) 21 32 31 Recycling rate 88 91 95 Fuel usage volume Incheon Steel plate 20,131 21,687 14,451 Changwon General waste 1,077 753 943 (ton, Basic unit: ton/KRW million) Steel plate basic unit 0.005 0.006 0.003 Basic unit calculated based on yearly sales Specified waste 496 478 511 Scrap metal 44,500 43,200 39,518 Recycling rate 56 56 59 Scrap metal basic unit 0.010 0.011 0.009 Basic unit calculated based on yearly sales Gunsan General waste 669 649 822 Sand (molding sand) 32,000 34,200 29,080 All molding sand is recycled Specified waste 181 216 239 Sand basic unit 0.008 0.009 0.007 Recycling rate 71 60 61 Water usage volume Companywide, Water 786,341 865,325 861,707 Previous data revised following the expansion of Industrial accident rate Companywide 0.28 0.39 0.40 Based on treatment approvals (ton, Basic unit: ton/KRW million) Korea reporting scope to Incheon, Changwon and Gunsan plants in 2014 Water basic unit 0.185 0.226 0.205 Total volume of reused or recycled water Incheon 800 800 800 (ton, Basic unit: ton/KRW million) Greenhouse gas emissions Companywide, Total 153,441 161,626 154,998 (including indirect and direct emissions) Korea Scope 1 37,065 40,757 38,594 (tonCO2eq, Basic unit: tonCO2eq/KRW million) Scope 2 116,376 120,876 116,414 Basic unit 0.027 0.032 0.028 Incheon Total 106,373 112,485 106,536 Scope 1 22,885 25,338 23,910 Scope 2 83,488 87,147 82,626 Changwon Total 19,198 18,892 19,202 Scope 1 3,352 3,062 3,010 Scope 2 15,846 15,828 16,193 * Inchoen: 665,930 tons, Changwon: 135,814 tons, Gunsan: 59,963 tons 96 97 Appendix 2014 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE REPORT English Translation of Independent Auditor’s Report Originally Issued in Korean on March 19, 2015. To the management of Doosan Infracore LEVEL OF ASSURANCE We undertook a limited assurance engagement in accorTo the Shareholders and the Board of Directors of nancial statements. The procedures selected depend on At request of Doosan Infracore (the “Company”)’, we have dance with ISAE 3000. The nature, timing and the extent Doosan Infracore Co., Ltd.: the auditor’s judgment, including the assessment of the reviewed the information presented in the 2014 integrated of procedures for gathering sufficient, appropriate evidence risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, report (the “Report”). The management of the Company is are deliberately limited relative to a reasonable assurance Report on the Financial Statements whether due to fraud or error. In making those risk assessresponsible for preparing the Report. Our responsibility is engagement. Consequently, the limited assurance of ISAE ments, the auditor considers internal control relevant to to carry out a limited assurance engagement on the Report 3000 is in accordance with the moderate level as defined We have audited the accompanying consolidated financial the entity’s preparation and fair presentation of the finanand to provide opinions on it based on our review. by AA1000AS(2008). statements of Doosan Infracore Co., Ltd. and subsidiarcial statements in order to design audit procedures that ies (the “Company”), which comprise the consolidated are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purTHE LIMITATIONS OF OUR REVIEW statements of financial position as of December 31, 2014 pose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the We excluded GHG (Greenhouse Gas) emissions in our limitand 2013, respectively, and the consolidated statements entity’s internal control. An audit also includes evaluating ed assurance engagement. And, we did not review environof income, consolidated statements of comprehensive inthe appropriateness of accounting policies used and the mental and social performance data prior to 2012. However, come, consolidated statements of changes in shareholders’ reasonableness of accounting estimates made by managewe reviewed financial performance data based on the Comequity and consolidated statements of cash flows, all exment, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the pany’s 2014 audited financial statements. pressed in Korean Won, for the years ended December 31, financial statements. We believe that the audit evidence 2014 and 2013, and a summary of significant accounting we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide PROCEDURES PERFORMED OUR CONCLUSIONS policies and other explanatory information. a basis for our audit opinion. We conducted our engagement in accordance with ISAE The result of our review is outlined below. 30001 and the requirements of a Type 2 assurance engageManagement’s Responsibility for the Consolidated FinanOpinion ment as defined by AA1000AS(2008)2. INCLUSIVITY cial statements In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements Has the Company engaged with stakeholders across Management is responsible for the preparation and fair present fairly, in all material respects, the financial posiWe performed the following procedures to form our concluthe business to develop and implement its approach to presentation of these consolidated financial statements in tion of the Company as of December 31, 2014, and 2013, sion on the Report: CSR? accordance with Korean International Financial Reporting respectively, and its financial performance operations and • Reviewed the Company’s stakeholder engagement Standards (“K-IFRS”) and for such internal control as manits cash flows for the years then ended in accordance with and materiality assessment process. • We are not aware of any key stakeholder groups that agement determines is necessary to enable the preparaK-IFRS. • R eviewed media sources addressing CSR issues have been excluded from the stakeholder engagetion of consolidated financial statements that are free from during the Reporting period that are relevant to the ment process outlined in the Report. material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. Others Company. • We are not aware of any matters that would lead us We conducted our audit of consolidated financial state• Analyzed latest CSR reports published by industry to conclude that the Company has not applied the Auditors’ Responsibility ments of the Company as of December 31, 2013 in accorpeers. inclusivity principle in developing its approach to Our responsibility is to express an audit opinion on these dance with the former KSAs, known as auditing standards • Interviewed a selection of people in charge to underCSR. financial statements based on our audits. We conducted generally accepted in Korea. stand the current status of CSR performance and the our audits in accordance with Korean Standards on AuditReporting process during the Reporting period. MATERIALITY ing (“KSAs”). Those standards require that we comply with • Reviewed selected data regarding the Company’s CSR Has the Company provided a balanced representation ethical requirements and plan and perform the audit to performance, supporting evidence for assertions, and of material issues concerning its CSR performance? obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial information from corporate-wide systems. • We are not aware of any material aspects concerning statements are free from material misstatement. CEO, • Reviewed The Company’s process for collecting and the Company’s CSR performance which have been Deloiite Anjin LLC Jaesul Lee consolidating CSR performance data. excluded from the Report. An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit • Reviewed whether financial performance data has • Nothing has come to our attention that causes us to evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the fiMarch 19, 2015 been extracted properly from the Company’s audited believe that the Company’s management has not apfinancial statements. plied its processes for determining material issues to be included in the Report. This report is effective as of March 19, 2015, the auditor’s report date. Certain subsequent events or circumstances may have occurred between the auditor’s report date and the time the auditor’s report is read. Such events or circumstances could significantly affect the accompanying consolidated financial statements and may result in modification to the auditor’s report. 1 International Standard on Assurance Engagement (Revised) : Assurance Engagements other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information from International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board 2 AA1000AS(2008) : The second edition of the AA1000 Assurance Standard from AccountAbility 98 99 Appendix 2014 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE REPORT GLOBAL NETWORK RESPONSIVENESS so that stakeholders can easily identify annual trend Production subsidiaries Sales subsidiaries and branches R&D centers Has the Company responded to the stakeholder conof the Company’s performances. 19 38 9 cerns? • To better respond to stakeholders in the U.S. and • We are not aware of any matters that would lead us China, the Company must establish and manage loto conclude that the Company has not applied the cally relevant indicators that may effectively reflect responsiveness principle in considering the matters distinctiveness of social context and business envito be reported. ronments of the Company’s overseas worksites. COMPLETENESS AND ACCURACY OF PERFORMANCE INDEPENDENCE Belgium-Doosan Infracore Construction Equipment EMEA HQ· Belgium-Doosan Infracore Europe S.A. INFORMATION We comply with the Ethical Standard issued by IFAC (InBelgium-Doosan Infracore Portable Power EMEA Czech Republic-Doosan Infracore Manufacturing s.r.o. How complete and accurate is the economic, social, and ternational Federation of Accountants). Czech Republic-Doosan Bobcat Engineering s.r.o environmental performance data in the Report? France-Doosan Infracore Europe S.A. Ireland-Geith International Ltd. • We are not aware of any that have been excluded OUR ASSURANCE TEAM Germany-Doosan Infracore Europe S.A. Germany-Doosan Infracore Germany GmbH. from the economic, social, and environmental perforThe assurance engagement was performed by the enNorway-Doosan Infracore Norway AS mance data. gagement team with a long history of experience and • Nothing has come to our attention that causes us expertise in CSR area. to believe that the data relating to the above topics has not been collated properly from the Company’s reporting processes. How plausible are the statements and claims within the Report? • We are not aware of any misstatements of information or explanation used to support statements and claims on the Company’s CSR activities presented in the Report. OBSERVATIONS AND AREAS FOR IMPROVEMENT Without prejudice against our conclusions presented U.S.A-Bobcat Company (Fargo) above, we believe the following matters require attenU.S.A-Bobcat Company (Wahpeton) tion in order to improve the Company’s CSR reporting. U.S.A-Bobcat Company (Gwinner) U.S.A-Doosan Infracore Portable Power (Statesville) • The Company’s reporting scope is not limited to domestic operations but is gradually expanding towards U.S. and China worksites, where the Company’s main South America -Doosan Infracore South America overseas operations are located. Therefore, in order to maintain data consistency, the Company must focus on establishing a consistent company-wide stanJIN-SUG SUH REGIONAL MANAGING PARTNER dard for calculating and collecting overseas data. EY HAN YOUNG • To become a global leader in CSR, the Company must SEOUL, KOREA JULY 2015 Korea-Incheon Plant establish both mid-term and long-term goals for its Korea-Doosan Infracore Co., Ltd. CSR performances and clearly disclose its progress. Korea-Gunsan Plant Korea-Changwon Plant Moreover, the Company must report actual perforChina-Doosan Infracore China Investment Co., Ltd. China-Doosan Infracore China Co., Ltd. mance against the objectives in a consistent manner China-Doosan Infracore Machine Tools Yantai Co., Ltd. China-Doosan Infracore Shandong Co., Ltd. China-Doosan Infracore Suzhou Co., Ltd. 100 101 2014 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report UN Global Compact 10 Principles Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Ⓡ The 2014 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report uses FSC™ (Forest Stewardship Council )-certified paper, bearing the logo Principle 2: Should make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses carried only by products made using timber from environmentally developed and managed forests. The report was printed at a FSC-certified print shop using soy oil ink which drastically reduces the emissions of air pollutants. Labor Standards Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Status of Business Locations in Korea Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Seoul Office Doosan Tower, 275 Jangchungdan-ro, Jung-gu, Seoul 82-2-3398-8114 Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Incheon Plant 489 Injung-ro, Dong-gu, Incheon 82-32-211-1114 Changwon Namsan Plant 40 Jeongdong-ro 162beon-gil, Seongsan-gu, Changwon-si, Gyeongsangnam-do 82-55-280-4114 Environment Changwon Daewon Plant 101 Samdong-ro, Uichang-gu, Changwon-si, Gyeongsangnam-do 82-55-280-4114 Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Changwon Seongju Plant 19, Changwon-daero 1144beon-gil, Seongsan-gu, Changwon-si, Gyeongsangnam-do 82-55-280-4114 Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility: and Gunsan Plant 185 Dongjangsan-ro, Gunsan-si, Jeollabuk-do 82-63-447-3043 Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Ansan Parts Service Center 48 Yongdam-ro, Sangnok-gu, Ansan-si, Gyeonggi-do 82-31-400-2114 Anti-Corruption Date Published July 2015 Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery Publishing Team CSR Team, Communication, Doosan Infracore E-mail: infracore.csr@doosan.com Doosan Infracore supports UNGC Ten Principles. Planning and Designed IM creative Tel: 82-2-303-4266 102 103
