Harmonizing Human Beings with Nature 2015 LH Sustainability Report About this report Contents Report Overview About this report 02 The Korea Land and Housing Corporation (LH) publishes the sustainability management report to ensure CEO Message 04 transparency in its commitment to sustainable management through diverse activities. This report is based 2014 Highlights 06 on the latest Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4 guidelines with a focus on issues material to our businesses and stakeholders so that it can serve as an effective sustainability report that contains valuable information LH SUSTAINABILITY OVERVIEW about the LH. We will continue to do our best to facilitate communication with our stakeholders through Introduction to the LH 10 the report. 13 2015 LH Governance Reporting Period, Scope, and Boundary Sustainable Management Promotion System 14 Stakeholder Engagement 16 Sustainability Report The contents of this report cover the major activities and achievements the LH’s headquarters and local headquarters in the period from January 1 to December 31, 2014. Some sections reflect the latest (2015) Materiality Test 18 data, and to facilitate time series analysis, some quantitative data include statistics for the last three years. In Risk Management 20 particular, this report stresses the Disclosures on Management Approach (DMA) concerning the materialist issues identified through the materialist test in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4 LH SUSTAINABILITY ISSUES guidelines and includes its effect on our stakeholders and management methods. Financial Stability 24 Housing Stability Assistance 28 Reporting Principle Reinforcement of Land Competitiveness 32 This report is based on the Core option of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4 guidelines. The contents Ethical Management 37 of this report are prioritized based on stakeholders’ interest and impact on the organization through stakeholder engagement and a materiality test and include the Disclosures on Management approach Talent Management 40 and related indicators concerning material aspects. The LH’s achievements in areas related to finance, Human Rights Management 44 environment, and labor are based on the related standards at home and abroad and the units and the units Customer Delight 47 and standards for calculation are indicated separately. Shared Growth 52 Assurance Contribution of Local Society 57 This report was verified by an independent outside assurance provider to ensure the report’s reliability and Green Management 62 accuracy. The assurance statement can be found in the appendix. Creation of Eco-Friendly Cities 66 Additional Information about the Report APPENDIX More detailed information about the LH’s sustainability management activities on the LH website. Also, our Third-Person Assurance Statement 70 sustainability management reports, which are published in Korean and English, are available for download GRI G4 and ISO 26000 Application Standards 72 in PDF files. Please refer to the contact information for further inquiry or opinions about our sustainability Awards/ Memberships 78 report. Sustainable Management Initiative 79 Homepage http://www.lh.or.kr Blog http://blog.naver.com/bloglh/ Address 19 Chungui-ro, Jinju, Gyeongsangnam-do, Korea (660-031) Tel 82-55-922-3181 Fax 82-55-922-3184 E-mail semiddol@lh.or.kr 04 05 CEO Message Greetings to our valued stakeholders cutting costs by diversifying new businesses, such as large-scale development, LH has been striving to realize its core vision of being the “world-class land and joint development with public sectors, and rental house REITs. We will continue housing service provider that creates the base of happy life,” giving its top priority to discover new business models and innovative business methods in all new to “national happiness.” In order to complete its mission, LH has contributed to areas of our business in the present and in the future. national housing stability and balanced land development. It will continue to Third, we pursue “new growth green cities that lead the future.” fulfill its social and environmental as well as economic responsibilities as a fullfledged sustainable company. LH has done business through cooperation as we believe that it is also our duty To that end, LH supports the UN Global Compact’s ten principles in the areas of to contribute to national competitiveness by managing land efficiently and human rights, labor, environment, and anti-corruption and incorporates them discovering advanced land with high potential. We have been committed to into its business activity. We report our effort for sustainable management in our enhancing national competitiveness and shared growth by developing land fourth annual sustainability report, hoping to share it with our stakeholders for jointly with private enterprises and providing civil servants of developing nations further development. Despite the tough business environment during the year with training in urban development. We will expand our cooperative effort to of 2014, all LH employees joined forces and made achievements in many areas. maximize land use and achieve a sustainable competitive advantage based on it. Above all, we made record-breaking achievements in sales since the launch Fourth, we will discover competitive land in the global market for of the company and laid the foundation to reduce debts while stably carrying “shared growth with contractors and suppliers.” out governmental policies through diversification in business methods. In LH has done business through cooperation as we believe that it is also our duty addition, we could cut roughly KRW 7 trillion in financial debts for the first since to contribute to national competitiveness by managing land efficiently and the integration. Our mission has not yet been accomplished. The U.S. economy discovering advanced land with high potential. We have been committed to is recovering, but the economic conditions in China and the European Union enhancing national competitiveness and shared growth by developing land are still volatile. As the Korean government and people expect LH to take a role jointly with private enterprises and providing civil servants of developing nations in achieving stabilization in the housing rental market and economic vitality, with training in urban development. We will expand our cooperative effort to we should do our best to meet their expectations. We have been committed maximize land use and achieve a sustainable competitive advantage based on it. to achieving management innovation, structural improvement in the financial system, and business normalization. However, we will not rest on our laurels and Fifth, we are vowed to transparency in business operations. continue to push ourselves to grow into a sustainable company with far-sighted goals through consistent innovation. Transparency is prerequisite for the structural competitiveness of a public Our first goal is to create “happy residential spaces in which everybody company. The survival of a company cannot be ensured without transparency wants to live.” even if the company has achieved outstanding performance. As the reliability of a company lies in the ethicality and integrity of each member of the organization, LH started to build 23,368 Happy Houses in 2014, outperforming its target of LH will work even harder to promote anti-corruption and integrity compliance. 23,000 houses for approval, and continued to fulfill its responsibility for national LH will move to Jinju, Gyeongsangnam-do, in 2015. housing stabilization and balanced land development, as well as creation of new residential spaces. As a result, LH won the Minister of Land, Infrastructure, If we had focused on overcoming crises and achieving financial stability for the and Transport in the overseas construction sector, making its name as last five years, we will gear ourselves up to grow into a sustainable company. As a world-class construction company. We will continue to focus on our core the year of 2015 is critical for LH to establish a sustainable foundation in order competency while discovering our potential for the future growth of LH. to cope with diverse difficulties and external challenges, we will do our best to constantly change and innovate ourselves with our capacity as the basis in order Second, we will maximize sales and business innovation to ensure to become a company essential for national life. financial stability. Thank you. In order to become sustainable in the long term, consistent debt reduction is essential. LH will organically cooperate with the headquarters of each sector, local President and CEO of LH organizations, and branch offices throughout the whole project process from basic planning to construction, sales, and post-sales services in order to become marketable products customers are satisfied with. Last year, we succeeded in 06 07 2014 Highlights ④ New customer-centered LH website launched In an effort to enhance customer convenience, LH designed its new website (www.lh.or.kr) and unveiled it on November 11, 2014. In consideration of the growing number of visitors who access the LH website using mobile devices, LH created its mobile website (http://m.lh.or.kr) for their convenient use of LH’s information service under the mobile environment, consolidating its channels of communication with its customers. ➊ ➋ ➍ 2014 KRW 7.2 trillion in financial debt reduction KRW 27.2 trillion in sales ➎ ① ‌Financial debt reduced for the first time since the corporate integration ➏ LH implemented the sales target management system, a sales management ⑤ President’s Prize won at the “2014 New Technology Commercontract signed by the CEO and the department chiefs, to maximize sales, cialization Promotion Contest” laying the foundation for the virtuous cycle of the business structure. The LH organized a small and medium-sized business support team, contributing absolute scale of financial debt reduced for the first time since the corporate to managing the purchase of certified new products and boosting the purintegration and the global credit rating agency S&P upped LH’s credit rating ➌ chase of products made by small and medium-sized companies, and built outlook from “stable” to “positive” on September 22, 2014. an innovative small and medium-sized company support system that covers the whole process from technology development to sales. LH’s contribution to market expansion for the certified New Excellent Products was recognized ② Anti-corruption and Integrity Resolution Rally held ③ Scholarship awarded to 261 children of tenants living in rental at the 「2014 New Technology Commercialization Promotion Contest」 held On October 8, 2014, the LH headquarters and 23 local headquarters across housing for low-income families by the Ministry of Trade, Industry and Energy, which made LH the first public the nation held a resolution rally simultaneously, vowing for anti-corruption LH supports children of low-income families with scholarships as part of its liveliorganization to win the 「President’s Prize」. and integrity practices. All LH employees adopted the “Anti-Corruption and hood support program for tenants of the rental housing for low-income families Integrity Practice Resolution” and singed the Cyber Integrity Oath, pledging to so that they can grow up into wholesome members of community. On October ⑥ The “Earthquake Control Technology Learning Center” launched bide by the ethics charter and the code of conduct, practice integrity as part 28, 2014, LH awarded a scholarship (livelihood support fund) of KRW 1 million ~ 1.5 in the Green Hall of life, create a transparent public office atmosphere, and fulfill social responmillion to each of 261 children of the rental house tenants at the scholarship award sibility and customer delight. ceremony held at the LH Headquarters. In order to keep up with social demand for the improvement and consolidation of the safety and disaster prevention system after the Sewol tragedy, LH opened the “Earthquake Control Technology Learning Center” in the Green Hall in October 2014. The learning center is designed to provide visitors with useful knowledge about the earthquake control system that incorporates various technological elements essential for the protection of lives and assets from earthquakes under the topic “Construction of a city safe from natural disasters.” Sustainability Overview LH was established to improve national residential life through the development, maintenance, and management of land, housing, and cities and promote efficient land use, contributing to national economic development. As a leading land and housing enterprise, LH is committed to creating a human-centered world for national happiness. Risk Management 20 Introduction to LH 10 Stakeholder Engagement 16 Materiality Test 18 Corporate Governance 13 Sustainable Management System 14 10 11 Introduction to LH LH Sustainability Report 2015 LH Sustainability Overview LH Sustainability Issues Appendix Name Korea Land and Housing Corporation Organization Type Public enterprise (quasi-market type) LH 2020 in Progress Date of Foundation October 1, 2009 Government (87%), Korea Finance ‌ acquire, develop, reserve, and supply • To OwnershipType LH is undertaking it’s the midand long-term project “LH 2020” since 2012 with the aim of maintaining financial stabilCorporation (13%) Purpose of land Foundation • To develop and upgrade cities No. of Employees 6,121 people ity and succeeding in fulfilling its public responsibility. During the period from 2013 to 2014, LH diversified its business • To build, supply, and manage housing methods to achieve business normalization and focused on sales, succeeding in fulfilling its management goals and Major Workplaces Headquarters and 12 local headquarters (660-031) 19 Chungui-ro, Jinju, contributing to real estate market stability and economic vitalization. Also, LH is concentrating its effort to push the Headquarters Gyeongsangnam-do, Korea Capital KRW 25.8 trillion new business model discovery project and innovation in business methods it began in earnest in 2014. CEO Lee Jae-Young Total Asset KRW 171.6197 trillion Relevant GovernThe Ministry of Land, Infrastructure and ment Office Transport Sales KRW 21.2419 trillion Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 Crisis Transition Stability Vision and Core Value Management (~2015) (~2020) (~2012) The vision of LH is to become “a world-class land and housing service provider that creates happy residential sites.” In an effort to fulfill its vision, LH is undertaking the midand long-term project, “LH 2020,” and working towards achievTasks Progress Tasks Progress Tasks Progress ing its strategic goals on the basis of its management principles that stresses the provision of people-oriented land Profitability improvement through impleFull-scale promotion of impleA public enterprise trusted and housing services, fulfillment of responsible duties as a public enterprise, and communication and harmony. With planned optimized business structure mented uture growth engine businesses mented by the people core values, such as customer trust and delight, and challenges as the basis, LH focused on realizing universal residential welfare, consolidation of land competitiveness, financial stability, and customer delight in 2014. Restoration of trust in the markets through impleReinforcement of sustainable impleA corporation with the reputation as a planned success in overcoming financial crises mented management system mented great workplace LH 2020 Stabilize the organization through the Establishment of a future-oriented new A global corporation in the land and feedimplesuccess-ful completion of the advanceplanned back corporate culture mented housing area Look High 2020! ment of the public enterprise Meaning: Set Your Goals High/ implying the vision LH pursues Major Projects To lead national economic development and improve quality of LH aims to offer happy housing services and build new land and housing development models for the improvement Mission life through national residential stability and efficient land use of the national housing welfare and efficient land use. We are committed to laying the foundation for national economic growth by establishing a people-oriented management system and securing a virtuous cycle of the business World-class land and housing service provider that creates the base of happy life structure. Vision Happy residential spaces in which New growth green cities that Competitive land in the everybody wants to live lead the future global market Core Value Housing Welfare Project Public Housing Project Urban Environment Creation Project National Policy Project Research and Technology Trust Delight Challenge (Best Place: 信) (Best Partner: 幸) (Best Pioneer: 進) New city development, land Industry, logistics, and Research, certification and Supply and operation and Consistent construction of development, city development research complexes, free ecoassessment, small and medimanagement of rental housing public housing, successful Collective energy project, nomic zone, Sejong City, innovaum-sized business support and housing support completion of Happy Housing U-CITY, cultural asset surveys, tive city, Soult-North cooperaproject, patent real estate finance project tion and overseas businesses Emphasis on the customEnhancement of Improvement of Promotion of future Strategic Direction er-centered management ‌ • Supply of 62,000 rental housing ‌ • Construction of 48,000 housing • Development of 97 project areas • ‌Supply of lots for economic basis • 56 green building certificates financial stability business efficiency growth engines system units in 2014 units approved, Construction of (241 square meters) nationwide worth KRW 1.6543 trillion • 26 energy efficiency certificates ‌ • Support for housing stability 55,000 housing units began, and in progress. • ‌Participation in the establishment • 27 BF (barrier free) certificates ‌ • Optimization of business • Cost reduction • Discovery ‌ of high value-added •‌Consolidation of corporate of 2.01 million people through 53,000 housing units completed • ‌Creation of eco-friendly green citof 12 industrial complexes, includ• 146 eco-friendly housing perforStrategic Tasks structure • ‌‌Increase of value added new businesses image as a trusted national the operation of 804,000 public in 2014 ies by introducing low impact deing urban cutting-edge industrial mance evaluation studies • ‌Diversification in the supply of products • ‌Expansion of new growth busienterprise rental housing units ‌ • Construction of 23,000 Happy velopment (LID) technology and complexes and local specialized • ‌Purchase of Products produced funds • ‌Reinforcement of mutual nesses • ‌Creation of future-oriented • Launch of the integrated rental Housing units increasing the use of renewable industrial complexes by small and medium-sized • ‌Governmental support for cooperation with stakeholders • ‌Sharpening of competitive new corporate culture housing DB covering 1.7 million energy. • ‌Entry of 20 construction compacompanies worth KRW 6.0991 policy projects edge in technology and R&D • ‌Establishment of perfor• ‌Creation of safe and convenient cities rental housing units nationwide nies to overseas market under the trillion mance-oriented management with the expansion of model safety and a rental housing portal. LH-private cooperative system system cities and integrated control systems. 12 13 Introduction to LH Corporate Governance LH Sustainability Report 2015 LH Sustainability Overview LH Sustainability Issues Appendix Generation and Distribution of Economic Value Executive director (As of Mar. 2015.) Board of Directors (BOD) Composition Name Position Gender LH generates economic value through major business activities and returns it to society and stakeholders. In 2014, LH The Board of Directors (BOD), as the highest decision making body, reviews and concludes basic management policies Kim Yeong-Do Standing auditor Male saw KRW 21 trillion in sales, KRW 1.1118 trillion in operating profit, and KRW 847.9 billion in net profit. Vice president and and major management decisions. The BOD consists of seven executive directors and eight non-executive directors Hwang Jong-Cheol head of Planning and Male and chaired by the senior non-executive director. The non-executive director is named by the Minister of Strategy and Finance Division Finance among the candidates recommended by the Nominating Committee after the review and the vote of the Major Economic Performance (Unit: KRW 100 million) Sin Head of Housing Male Steering Committee of Public Institution in accordance with the Act on the Management of Public Institutions. Dong-Cheol Welfare Division Classification 2012 2013 2014 Head of City Sales 183,717 183,000 212,419 Park Su-Hong Male Environment Division Land Development 122,905 108,922 137,565 Yoo Head of Public BOD Operation Male Housing Construction 48,578 61,155 61,984 Byeong-Yeol Housing Division Sales in each sector The BOD makes decisions by a majority vote of the current directors and any director who has a stake in the items on Housing Welfare 8,456 8,844 10,197 Head of National Lee Hyeon-Ju Male Subsidiary Business 3,778 3,807 2,674 Project Division the agenda in question cannot participate in voting. The BOD is held monthly and can call a BOD meeting when necOperating Profit 14,085 8,295 11,119 * Seven directors including heads of divisions essary. In 2014, the BOD held 17 BOD meetings and handled 30 issues. Net Profit 12,047 7,108 8,479 Non-executive director (As of Mar. 2015.) Subcommittee Operation Value Distribution to Stakeholders (Unit: KRW 100 million) Name Position Gender LH operates several subcommittees and an audit committee under the BOD for in-depth review of the issues entrustChae Chairman of Classification 2012 2013 2014 Male ed by the BOD or the issues that require preliminary review before any decision is made by the BOD. In 2014, LH held Duk-Seok K-Reits & Partners Economic Value seven subcommittee meetings involving the Audit Committee, Planning and Management Committee, as well as Sales 183,717 183,000 212,419 Kim Vice president of Generated Male Seon-Yong Higen Motor major project committees, to address 21 issues. Shareholders Dividend 618 1,228 681 President of Government Corporate tax 11 0 1 Kim Seon-Nam Male Gwangnam Ilbo Employees Wage and benefits 5,995 5,634 5,527 Chairman of the Korea Employee Evaluation and Reward Local taxes and social Kim Chan-Gil Housing Managers Male Local Community 2,274 3,337 3,820 contribution Association The BOD activity is assessed by the outside assessment team during the annual governmental management evaluaSuppliers Construction cost 110,583 115,662 98,567 Vice Chairman of Korea Yun Ju-Sun Male tion. The wage of the executive director consists of the basic annual salary, performance-related annual salary, and reInstitute of Urban Planners tirement allowance and the performance-related annual salary is commensurate with the result of the governmental Wi Examiner of Gyeonggi-do Male Financial Statements Seung-Cheol City Planning Construction management evaluation. The performance-related salary of the CEO is based on the management contract and that Chairman of Dongjak of the executive director except the CCEO is based on the management performance evaluation methods set by the Park Won-Gyu Male Reduction of interest costs Classification Unit 2012 2013 2014 District Council CEO within the limit of 100 percent of the basic annual salary. In case an executive director violates LH’s ethical princi(Unit: Interest rate (%)) Current assets 950,373 970,046 921,981 Professor of urban Kim ples in accordance with the Article 7 Sustainable Management Regulations, the performance-related salary that has engineering at Male Assets Non-current assets 727,244 763,429 794,216 Geun-Yeong Kangnam University been already paid or will be paid is subject to return in accordance with the determination of punishment. 3.7 Total assets 1,677,616 1,733,475 1,716,197 Summary Current liabilities 381,841 392,928 363,662 3.2 KRW 100 3.0 financial Liabilities Non-current liabilities 999,380 1,029,673 1,015,146 million statement Total liabilities 1,381,221 1,422,602 1,378,808 Capital stock 230,792 238,923 257,825 BOD Activities Attendance rate of non-executive directors (%) Ratio of statements by non-executive directors (%) Equities Others 65,567 71,916 79,529 No. of BOD meetings Attendance rate (%) No. of resolutions 3.0 Total equity Sales growth 296,396 20.4 310,874 (0.5) 337,390 16.1 97.7 95.1 Growth 93.9 96.8 97.1 69.1 2012 2013 2014 Net profit growth 52.4 (41) 19.3 96.4 68.7 Return on asset 0.7 0.4 0.5 * Weighted average interest rate for funding Profitability 27 Return on Equity 4.1 2.3 2.6 30 30 63.5 Key Current ratio 249 247 254 financial Quick ratio % 26 26 30 17 indicators 16 Stability Debt-to-equity 466 458 409 14 97.1 69.1 Financial debt ratio 351 340 292 Equity ratio 17.7 17.9 19.7 Gross value added to Productivity 4.2 4.0 3.9 2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 assets 14 15 Sustainable Management LH Sustainability Report 2015 LH Sustainability Overview LH Sustainability Issues Appendix Promotion System Sustainability Management Strategy Sustainability Performance Management LH has strived to establish the basis of sustainable growth by setting the criteria and procedures for ethical manageLH is geared for consistent innovation as part of its effort to turn various crises it faces, such as the stagnation of the ment, customer satisfaction management, quality management, green management, and risk management through real estate market, along with changes in the environment for development, demand for debt reduction as a result the “sustainability management regulations” since its launch on October 2009. In order to enhance sustainability of business normalization in public organizations, and active participation of the private sector in rental housing, into through the balanced growth of the economy, society, and environment, we have set up three key sustainability manopportunities. agement strategies-strengthening business competitiveness, leading low carbon green growth, and contributing to local communities. Objectives Major Projects Outcomes in 2014 • Construction of 550,000 housing units began (103% achieved) Construction of public housing and Happiness Housing • Construction of 5000 Happiness Housing units began (116 & achieved) To realize universal Supply of 12, 146 housing units (REITs Nos. 1~ 3) in 12 zones • 16,204 public rental housing units (REITs Nos. 4-7) housing welfare through stable supply of private fund-utilized Business expenses • Installation of 49 housing voucher offices across the nation(1,767 employees) Housing benefit, etc. • Housing benefit project pushed for 970,000 low-income households • Preparation of six potential projects for the attraction of foreign investment Trust, Faith Thousand-Year Tree Smile, Happiness Hope·Comfort·Home Creation of Sejong Innovation City • ‌Support for the attraction of self-sufficient facilities to Sejong City (Korea University and Chungnam University Hospital launched in Sejong City and MOUs signed by 64 companies) • Promotion of urban vitalization through the specialized development of each district Development of urban cutting-edge industrial complexes and • Participation ‌ in the establishment of 12 industrial complexes, including urban cutting-edge To consolidate national local specialized industrial complexes Urban regeneration industrial complexes and local specialized industrial complexes LAND & HOUSE Economy LIFE & HUMAN land competitiveness • Attraction of overseas investors to Dongtan District 2 in Hwaseong (KRW 6.6 billion) • Expansion in the use of low impact development techniques and renewable energy Land value People-oriented • Building of the Hwaseong Dongtan 2 Green Transportation System. • Leader in land and housing industry Reinforcing Creation of green cities • Universal housing welfare • ‌Reduction of 30 percent of energy consumption on average through the application of energy • Development of housing and land business com• Housing welfare service conservation techniques in school facilities • Increase in public value petitiveness Society • Increase in housing value ‌ • Record-breaking sales through the implement of the sales target program All-out sales and loan collection (KRW 27.2 trillion in supply), loan worth KRW 21.7 trillion collected All values of the world Expanding so• Financial debt worth KRW 7.2 trillion reduced (KRW 98.5 trillion) cial contribution To secure financial Cost reduction in each project period • Cost worth KRW 1.3540 trillion cut and profitability increased stability • Transformation of the business structure into a virtuous cycle (loan collection>cost) from LH LOVE & HAPPINESS Revamping of business methods • ‌Debt worth KRW 2.3624 trillion cut through utilization of private capital and revamping of business methods for mutual cooperation Life and environment Happiness of people ‌ • Establishment of the foundation for housing construction that incorporates customers’ needs • Creation of green cities • S ocial contribution through the introduction of the system based on customer’s suggestions • Response to climate change Environment • Shared growth • ‌Enhancement of customer satisfaction through the design of Happiness Housing that suits Management for customer satisfaction and regulatory reform • Increase of environmental value • Increase in social value customers’ needs and geographical conditions Leading low carbon • ‌Optimized facility management through comprehensive measures for disaster prevention and green growth safety management for customer safety ‌ • Expansion of pre-monitoring system through the introduction of an Ombudsman To establish an integrity and anti-corruption system pre-monitoring system • Introduction of the whistleblower system in relation to corruption ‌ • Establishment of a performance-based personnel management system, reinforcement of correlation between performance and wage and personnel management To embody customer • Promotion of 94 temporary employees to regular status delight To improve employee satisfaction • Expansion of the flexible work hour system (flextime workers increased 2.9 times) • Redesign of the maternity protection and sexual harassment prevention programs Economy Environment Society • Promotion of annual paid vacation (launch of a long-term paid vacation for over five days) • Discovery of benefit sharing models in four areas 1. Improvement in financial stability 6. Establishment of green housing system 11. Creation of jobs in the private sector • ‌Support for small and medium-sized businesses throughout the whole process from market 2. Improvement in business efficiency 7. Improvement in energy efficiency 12. Leader in realizing social fairness To establish a firm-wide win-win partnership system opening to sales 3. Development of future growth engines 8. Preemptive action to address climate change 13. Promotion of shared growth • Building of a partnership system with the Small and Medium Business Corporation (SBC) 4. ‌Consolidation of the customer-oriented 9. Green management practices 14. Building social trust • Expansion of the joint-venture system with prime contractors (8 zones) management system 10. Development of green technology 15. Securing employees’ confidence • Social contribution activities for rental house tenants at each stage of the life cycle 5. Enhancement of technology and R&D • ‌Operation of housing welfare governance (160 complexes) through environmental cleanup, To expand social responsibilities community vitalization, job creation, and various service activities • Vitalization of volunteer work 16 17 Stakeholder Engagement LH Sustainability Report 2015 LH Sustainability Overview LH Sustainability Issues Appendix Definition of LH’s Stakeholder Stakeholder Survey LH defines customers, people, central and local governments, local communities, suppliers, and employees as its six LH conducts a survey of its stakeholders, including employees, suppliers, customers, local communities, and the govkey stakeholder groups, with which the corporation is sharing its vision and core value. We strive to vitalize communiernment, each year in order to collect their opinions in relation to LH’s sustainable management practices. In 2015, our cation with our stakeholders for the creation of shared value through customized communication channels with our stakeholders have chosen “enhancement of financial soundness and profitability,” “consolidation of customer trust,” stakeholders’ areas of interest and expectations in mind. and “anti-corruption and reinforcement of ethnical management practices” as the core issues LH should give priority to in order to enhance its sustainability in economic, social, and environmental aspects. Communication Channels with Stakeholders Economic Issues Economic issues (Unit: %) “Financial soundness” has been chosen as the most imconsolidation of customers trust in the organization LH aims to fulfill its management goals through effective communication with its internal and external stakeholders. Enhancement of financial soundness and profitability We make an effort to cut debts to ensure financial stability through our internal stakeholders and lay the foundation portant issues three consecutive years. LH pushed ahead economic value creation and distribution for sustainable business through active communication with our external stakeholders. with its debt reduction strategies, including all-out sales, 26.3 business restructuring, management efficiency, and asset 23.7 disposal in line with the government’s plan for the manCommunication agement stabilization of public organizations. As LH is a 12.6 channels public organization that leads Korea’s construction market, • LH Call Center its stakeholders selected “consolidation of customers trust • Rental housing portals in the organization” and “economic value creation and dis• ‌Customer suggestion program tribution” as the issues LH should address first. Social Issues (Unit: %) Are • Civil service center as • Investor relations conference ‌ Spread of awareness of and effort for shared growth Customers of int ere • ‌Customer advisory Social Issues with suppliers st Effort for the enhancement of customer satisfaction committee LH’s stakeholders chose “anti-corruption and ethnical man• Customer satisfaction surveys Reinforcement of responsibility for customer service • LH sales information app. agement” as one of the issues LH should give priority to ‌Policy development and implementation for the resiCommunication Improvement of dential stability of the underprivileged customer service as public corporations’ reckless management has become channels ‌Reinforcement of anti-corruption and ethical an acute social problem. Along with this, LH stakeholders management 24.2 • Labor-Management Council Employees People showed continued interest in shared growth and, in reCommunication • LH Coexistence Committee Employee Consolidation of channels sponse to it, LH is forming a partnership with the private • ‌Employee satisfaction satisfaction public trust 16.8 surveys sector for large-scale development projects. In addition, • Growing Together Festival • Hot-line system 13.3 13.3 13.5 LH communication • LH website LH stakeholders considered the enhancement customer • Public report program • Suggestion program channel for each • Sustainability Report • Disclosure satisfaction and responsibility for customer service to meet • LH NEWS stakeholder group • ‌Nationwide advertising and diverse customer needs important and expect LH to take Win-win partnership, Fulfillment of campaign • ‌Integrity ombudsman the lead in developing policy for the residential stability of shared growth, political and public integrity activities responsibilities program the underprivileged and, further, the whole nation. Communication • CEO press conference channels • blogs, Facebook, Twitter Environmental Issue (Unit: %) Social Local • LH Shared Growth Taskforce Suppliers Operation of a green management system contribution and communities Environmental Issues • Clean Coexistence Council ‌Increase of investment in the environment and solidarity LH’s stakeholders recognized the spread of awareness of • Integrity surveys environmental protection • Meetings with suppliers Communication ‌Spread of awareness of the environment through the channels the environment through the creation of an eco-friendly creation of an eco-friendly organizational culture organizational culture as the most important issue for  • consultation with the 20.1 Local LH’s sustainable growth. LH has actively incorporated its government communities • Management assessment environmental concern into its management activities by Communication • Congressional inspection 13.8 13.9 creating “The Green Ecological Park.” In addition, it has been channels • ‌Workshops, council meetings, etc. taking preemptive action to address climate change and • LH volunteer group • LH PR exploration team for college students promote low-carbon green growth by fulfilling the tasks its • Social contribution report • LH ad contest for college students • ‌Social Contribution Advisory Committee • LH Youth Literature Contest stakeholders viewed as important, such as “operation of a • Union Corporate Committee (UCC) green management system” and “increase of investment in the environment and environmental protection.” 18 19 Materiality Test LH Sustainability Report 2015 LH Sustainability Overview Stakeholder Survey LH Sustainability Issues In an effort to understand the impact of stakeholders on LH-related issues on sustainability Appendix management, we conducted a survey of our major stakeholder groups, including LH employees, suppliers, local communities, and customers with their legal, financial, and operational responsibilities and influence under consideration. The survey of 1,569 internal and external stakeholders, which was held for five days from March 17 to 21, 2015, was utilized as a basic resource for the identification of core issues of the materiality test. LH examines stakeholders’ areas of interest and expectations that affect LH’s business activities and makes a report on them to make it open transparently to stakeholders. The report contains the material issues that are identified Materiality Test Results Among the 40 relevant issues identified through Trend & Impact analysis, benchmarking, through the materiality test based on the GRI G4 guidelines and ISO 26000. In particular, the materiality test reflects media analysis, and stakeholder engagement, we identified 13 core issues (7 in Trend and 6 in the materiality of the information that affects stakeholders’ decision making and reflects the economic, environmental, Impact) with 4.0 on average in materiality. We then made a report that contained the 13 core issues with emphasis on the issues with high average scores in materiality. and social impact of the issues on LH. The report also encompasses identified material aspects and boundaries so that stakeholders can assess the performance of the organization. STEP 1. STEP 2. STEP 3. Media analysis Related business analysis Trend and impact analysis Priority given to material issues Identification of issues Stakeholder Review of on sustainability engagement validity and management appropriateness Identification of major issues Importance of external stakeholders Trend & Impact Analysis Benchmarking Review by internal stakeholders We identified issues related to sustainability We analyzed sustainability management reports of several local ➊ LH held a meeting in which the analytical process of material issues for management by conducting a survey of and international companies noted for outstanding performance in sustainability management and its results were announced and core ➋ LH employees on that topic in terms of trend, sustainability management and analyzed their outcomes based on ➌ issues on sustainability management were discussed. We completed the impact, and internal capacity. the GRI reporting principles, through which we identified addition➍ review of the boundaries of our report and the appropriateness of the ➏ ➐ ➎ ➑ reporting period through meetings with internal employees in addition al issues we should address. ➓ ➒ to official reporting sessions. Review by external stakeholders The appropriateness of the report making process, including Media Analysis Stakeholder Interview the identification of core issues, and the validity of the data In order to objectively comprehend public awareness of isWe interviewed five experts who represent were reviewed by external stakeholders through an external sues related to LH’s sustainability management, we analyzed LH’s stakeholder groups and reflected their assurance agency. 4,143 out of 21,031 media mentions and articles featured demands and shared value in identifying core on major magazines and newspapers for the last three years issues. from January 2012 to December 2014 and identified related issues including negative ones. ● Trend / ● Impact Importance of internal stakeholders LH SUSTAINABILITY ISSUES Financial stability: ⑤ ‌ Enhancement of financial soundness and profitability, ⑫ Management efficiency (management innovation/business restructuring) Core Value Support for residential stability:‌① Social support for the organization’s business performance ⑦ Improvement in residential stability and welfare of the underprivileged Identification of major issues internal external Identification of major issues internal external Increase of land competitiveness:‌⑬ Leadership for balanced development of ① ‌Social support for the organization’s ⑦ ‌Improvement in residential stability local communities ● ● ● ● business performance and welfare of the underprivileged Ethical management: ④ ‌ Reinforcement of anti-corruption and ethical manage② ‌Creation of an eco-friendly ⑧ ‌Operation of a green management ment system ⑥ Reinforcement in governance soundness ● ● system Human rights management: ⑦ ‌ Improvement in residential stability and welfare organizational culture ⑨ ‌Effort for the enhancement of of the underprivileged ⑪ Work-life balance ③ ‌Emphasis on the importance of shared ● ● ● ● customer satisfaction Customer delight: ⑨  Effort for the enhancement of customer satisfaction ⑩ growth with suppliers Reinforcement in responsibility for customer service ⑩ ‌Reinforcement in responsibility for ● ● ④ ‌Reinforcement of anti-corruption and customer service Shared growth: ‌③ Emphasis on the importance of shared growth with suppliers ● ● ethical management system Contribution to local communities: ⑦ ‌ Improvement in residential stability and ⑪ Work-life balance ● ⑤ ‌Enhancement of financial soundness welfare of the underprivileged ⑬ Leadership ● ⑫ ‌Management efficiency (management for balanced development of local commuand profitability ● innovation/business restructuring) nities * Trend: External economic, environmental, and social trends that affect LH ⑥ ‌Reinforcement in governance ⑬ ‌Leadership for balanced development Green management:‌‌② Creation of an eco-friendly organizational culture ● ● ● * Impact: LH’s economic, environmental, and social impact on the external world soundness of local communities ⑧ Operation of a green management system 20 21 Risk Management LH Sustainability Report 2015 LH Sustainability Overview LH Sustainability Issues Appendix Risk Management System Relevant Organization LH manages various “risks” that threaten stable business activities by stipulating standards and procedures of risk manThe Risk Management Committee is the supreme decision making body in risk management, making decisions on agement within its “Sustainability Management Regulations.” We strive to prevent risks that hinder us from putting our LH’s risk-related policies, strategies, and countermeasures. The CEO assumes the role of chairman and the vice present management plans into practice and fulfilling our goals and turn identified risks into manageable risks. We define “crisis” that of chief risk officer (CRO) of the committee. The General Risk Management Team supervises overall risk manageas the risks that materialize and substantially harm our business practices and corporate image. We manage “crises by ment operations and support tasks and each department has a risk management staffer for risk management on a classifying them into four categories: management, disaster, communication, and tension, and strive to prevent them regular basis. effectively and respond to them promptly to minimize damage. Types of crises Crisis level determination Crisis analysis Management crisis Disaster crisis Communication crisis Conflict crisis ‌ • Crisis by external • Natural disaster • Negative media coverage • ‌Conflicts with environment • Man-made disaster stakeholders • Strategic crisis • IT disaster • Operational crisis • ‌Contingency in projects in • Financial crisis North Korea management Crisis response Risk and crisis management process Post-crisis management Risk management Identification Evaluation Risk response Monitoring and reporting (Signs of a crisis detected) Crisis alert criteria Blue Yellow Orange Red Attention Caution Warning Danger • Routine risk management ‌ • Prevention of the spread of crisis to the next level ‌ • Reporting to the Risk Management Committee after • ‌Reporting to the Risk Management Committee and ap• ‌Prevention of the spread of crisis to the next level by individual departments primary risk assessment by relevant departments and proval of the organization of the Emergency Manageby individual departments Each department’s ef• ‌Analysis and review of possible future crises by organizations ment Agency fort to prevent the spread of crisis into upper levels relevant departments • Finalization of the organization of the Emergency Man• ‌Organization and operation of the Emergency Man• Monitoring  of crisis and crisis responses by relevant • Monitoring of close cooperation between relevant agement Agency by the Risk Management Committee agement Agency departments departments and relevant organizations Sustainability Issues Green Management 62 Creation of Green Cities 66 LH identifies and manages material issues in the process of carrying out sustainable management every year. This report focuses on the issues selected as material to LH’s stakeholders in 2014. Human Resources Ethnical Management 37 Management 40 Human Rights Management 44 Support for Residential Stability 28 Customer Delight 47 Contribution to Local Communities 57 Ensuring Financial Stability 24 Enhancing Homeland Competitiveness 32 Shared Growth 52 24 25 Ensuring Financial Stability LH Sustainability Report 2015 LH Sustainability Overview LH Sustainability Issues Financial Appendix Stability Financial Stability Current Status LH has seen debt increase for various reasons, including the slow real estate market and consequent aggravation in profitability, structural characteristics of the business that requires large-scale initial intensive investment and longterm investment withdrawal, and the undertaking of governmental policy projects. In an effort to ride out its business crises resulting from a paradigm shift in land and housing policy, constraints of the conventional business methods, and the aggravated financial structure, LH does its best to stabilize its business. We have undertaken business restructuring right after the integration and took aggressive step to attract governmental support. We have also strived to improve our financial structure systematically and succeeded in slowing down debt increase. We are geared to carry 01 out government policy projects and, at the same time, achieve financial stability by taking bold action to innovate our Issues business operations as a whole and reduce debt. Taking the Lead in Government’s Debt Reduction Program > Materiality > Approach LH is carrying out the financial management plan it formulated in June 2013, which focuses on improving financial With increasing public and government attention to the financial status of Strategic • ‌To lay the foundation for sustainable growth by improving stability and profitability for the efficient distribution of limited financial resources and enhancement of financial Goal financial stability public institutions, LH has made a firmwide effort to ride out its financial soundness and building a virtuous cycle of business structure. In June 2014, we drew up a debt reduction plan that • ‌Emergency Management Committee, Business Stabilization difficulties resulting from its undertaking of a series of governmental policy Relevant incorporated the midand long-term financial management plan to take the lead in stabilizing the business, overPromotion Team, General Project Planning Office, Financial Department projects including the expansion of the construction of rental housing for Strategy Department, Financial Management Bureau achieving the goals set by the government. We aim to cut debt through innovative business methods by making a low-income families, creation of New City2, Sejong Innovation City, and bold self-help plan to cut debt (KRW 47.4 trillion). To that end, we have chosen 100 tasks and built a monitoring system Strategic • ‌Improvement of the stability and soundness of financial structure, Bogeumjari Housing. We focus on decreasing debt through business Task debt reduction that involves all LH employees, including the headquarters, the Emergency Management Committee, and the CEO for innovation and intensive firmwide efforts in order to fulfill our public performance analysis and assessment. In 2014, we fulfilled most of our financial goals by implementing the financial Evaluation • Sales target management system, financial improvement unit responsibility on the basis of financial stability. management program and improving profits. We also fulfilled the government’s policy goals and carried out policy • ‌Financial Risk Management (FRM) system, Emergency projects according to the plans. Monitoring Management Committee, Debt Reduction Inspection Working Group, Liquidity Crisis Countermeasure Working Group Improvement of financial soundness and fulfillment of policy goals Classification Target in 2014 Performance in 2014 Debt ratio 436% 409% Interest coverage ratio 1.1 times 1.0 times Financial goals Financial debt ratio 314% 292% Inventories turnover 16% 25% Ratio of gross profit to gross cost 1.2 times 1.4 times No. of public housing units to 53,485 units 54,874 units Strategy Achievement Future Plan build (Happiness Housing) (4,207 units) (4,867 units) Along with its consistent effort for intensive business restruc• ‌Debt cut by KRW 14.0417 trillion, exceeding its target of LH plans to spend KRW 700 billion early for the vitalization Policy goals housing units to build (Happiness 30,000 units 30,135 units turing and management innovation since its integration, KRW 12.9900 trillion. of the local economy in accordance with the national Housing) LH is pushing its mid and long-term financial management ‌Debt cut by KRW 4.0602 trillion through adjustment of economic policy in 2015. We also plan to adjust the period Area of industrial land for supply 2,818,000 ㎡ 3,833㎡ plans that incorporate management strategies and financial project period (KRW 3.8802 trillion) and diversification of of housing lot distribution through the LH Land Bank by and business plans it set in 2014. business methods (KRW 180 billion). adding KRW 2 trillion more for the land reserve project for In particular, we strive to cut debts to KRW 143 trillion by ‌Debt cut by KRW 4.0201 trillion, including supply expansion revitalization of the housing market and residential stability. the end of 2017 by reducing KRW 47.4 trillion in accordance through the sales target management system (KRW2.3746 with our self-help debt relief plan and KRW 2.0 trillion with trillion) and REITs utilization and early sales of ten-year rental debt reduction. housing (KRW 1.6455 trillion) ‌Debt cut by KRW 17.3 billion by selling the LH’s office building and training camp and KRW 394.3 billion by cutting cost and operating cost ‌Debt cut by KRW 5.4067 trillion by changing business methods of jeonse (lump-sum deposit) rental housing and KRW 143.1 billion through governmental support, including upgrading of criteria for Happiness Housing application 26 27 Ensuring Financial Stability LH Sustainability Report 2015 LH Sustainability Overview LH Sustainability Issues Appendix Systematized and Advanced Effort for Debt Reduction Measures for Debt Reduction and Results Before the formulation of the After the formulation of the debt reduction plan (~2013) debt reduction plan (2014~) Downsizing Business Restructuring Based on LH launched diverse business methods using private capital and undertook downsizing in response to market deNew Demand Probability Models mand, reducing cost and establishing a low-cost business structure with optimized investment and investment with• Quantitative business restructuring • Business innovation-type debt management drawal. We are making an effort to cut cost while actively engaging in diverse projects including governmental policy ‌Focus on artificial reduction of the number of ‌Adjustment of the project period with demand Downsizing projects or discontinuance of projects under consideration projects by utilizing private creativity and funds and diversifying business methods for shared growth with the private Business methods -‌Promotion of monopolized development of ‌Diversification of business methods that utilize ‌ • Corporate downsizing within the boundary of sector. In particular, we are pushing the rental housing REITs program designed to construct rental housing on the housing sites and housing construction private capital for shared growth with the financial capacity private sector empty public housing sites owned by LH for stable supply of rental housing by utilizing the national housing funds ‌Debt increase slowed down, but debt gradually increased and private capital. In 2014, LH supplied 12,000 units of rental housing, succeeding in cutting debt by KRW 1.7 trillion. • Promotion of downward debt reduction ‌ • Participation of the whole employees, promotion ‌ and long-term financial program: debt cut * Mid We plan to supply a total of 60,000 housing units by 2017, which will result in a KRW 3.6 trillion cut in debt. With a ‌Employees’ under mounting stress related to of upward debt reduction by KRW 13.4 trillion Limited debt reduction Direction debt reduction Competition among employees, idea discovery paradigm shift that emphasizes small-scale customized development, urban regeneration, and housing welfare rather for all employees than large-scale housing land development, LH is reshuffling its business to meet market demand by reconsidering Management ‌ • Debt reduction management system unsatisfac‌ • Formulation and systematization of a powerful its projects to scale down or adjust project periods, on the one hand, and carrying out new projects with a focus on system tory debt management system governmental policy projects with its financial conditions under consideration, on the other. Limit in debt reduction Reinforcement of Financial Risk Management Management Efficiency LH manages potential financial risks effectively by taking preemptive action to deal with them in order to push its LH aims to cut cost in each process of its land housing projects. It adopted various business feasibility verification debt reduction program. We have upgraded the conventional FRM (financial risk management) by reflecting cash systems for cost management in each project stage and saw a KRW 1.1243 trillion in debt in 2014 by taking the bold flow, financing, policy changes, and asset-debt imbalance, making it possible to address liquidity crises and efficient step of cutting cost in each stage of land projects, from licensing to compensation to construction. Also, we could save Restructuring asset and liabilities management. In particular, we installed a financial risk management system with a reporting sysKRW 206.3 billion through the housing construction cost management that faithfully reflected basic performance and tem for risk monitoring and risk situation analysis on a regular basis, improving our capacity to address financial risks ‌ • Demand-centered restructuring in response to economic feasibility. In addition, we could slash KRW 23.4 billion in labor cost, welfare expenses, and operating cost economic and social changes through the management efficiency drive joined by all employees including the CEO. through firmwide risk management. Effort made to cut debt ‌ * Debt reduction program: KRW 16.4 trillion (+KRW 2.9 trillion) Results of the debt reduction program through business efficiency Leading Role in Adopting the Segment Reporting System LH upgraded its management and assessment system by adopting the segment reporting system in 2011 as a means Classification Debt Reduction Program by 2017 Result* Cost reduction in land and • Land development cost (KRW 2.2 trillion) • Land development cost (KRW 1.1243 trillion) of business innovation for financial risk management before the government implemented it. We utilize the segment housing project • Housing construction cost (KRW 776.4 billion) • Housing construction cost (KRW 206.3 billion) reporting data to identify causes of debt in each segmented unit and draw governmental support. We analyze causes Reduction in labor cost and ‌ • Labor cost and welfare expenses • ‌Labor cost and welfare expenses of each type of debt with the projects being carried out in each district and product types under consideration to operating cost (KRW 9.3 billion) (KRW 8.6 billion) • Operating cost (KRW 59.9 billion) • Operating cost (KRW 14.8 billion) draw up a roadmap for financial debt solution. Total KRW 3.0456 trillion KRW 1,3540 trillion Results of Business Stabilization Efforts in 2014 Maximization of Withdrawal through All-out Sales Classification Unit 2012 2013 2014 LH fulfilled 74 percent of its targeted debt cut by introducing competition with the private sector in sales as part of Financial debt 104 106 99 last-pitch effort to sell through the sales target management system. In 2014, we applied the system to 31 departGrowth rate of financial debt 6.1 1.8 (6.6) ments for more rigorous assessment and consolidated weekly management and incentives, achieving record-breakKRW trillion Stockpiled land 31.5 29.9 26.9 ing KRW27.2 trillion in supply since the integration. We operated a hotline for prompt and efficient decision in sales Total debts 138 142 138 and established a management system for each lot. We also reinforced responsible management by naming a liaison Financial debt ratio 351 340 292 staffer to the headquarters and branch offices in each of 12 districts for focused management in order to manage % Debt-to-equity 466 458 409 those districts closely. Results of the Debt Reduction Program LH could establish a virtuous cycle of business structure with KRW 21.7 trillion and KRW 15.2 trillion in cost through its aggressive debt reduction plan. We could also cut KRW 7.2 trillion in debt from the previous year, achieving debt reduction for the first time since the integration. Thanks to such achievements in debt cut, LH’s credit rating was adjusted upward from A1 to Aa3, which is equivalent to that of the Korean government. 28 29 Stable Support for Residential Stability LH Sustainability Report 2015 LH Sustainability Overview LH Sustainability Issues Housing Appendix Support Stable Supply of Rental Housing Increase in the Supply of Rental Housing No. of Rental housing units supplied in LH is committed to providing people in need with a broad choice of homes for people in each income bracket each year through diverse customized public housing projects. The types of rental housing supplied by LH include national No. of rental housing units in operation rental housing, public rental housing, and permanent rental housing. With soaring jeonse (lump-sum deposit) prices for rental housing, the government has come up with various mea807,005 sures for the stabilization of jeonse prices, such as increase in the supply of public rental housing, early move-in to rental housing, adjustment of the move-out period for residents in the apartment complexes before reconstruction, 754,083 and increase in jeonse loans. For instance, we supplied 62,000 new rental housing units in 2014, contributing to the 704,992 02 residential stabilization of over two million people in 800,000 households. Issues 807,005 Rental housing supply in the present (Unit: Units) > Materiality > Approach 2012 2013 2014 No. of houses No. of Classification 2014 supplied people Strategic (accumulated) LH was launched to improve quality of life by realizing national residential • To embody universal residential welfare goal Total 62,111 807,005 2,011 stability. In line with the government’s policy that emphasizes national Relevant •‌‌Housing Welfare Planning Office, Housing Welfare Project Office, ‌ • Low-rent housing available permanently for low-income residential stability and universal housing welfare, LH is expected to play Permanent rental housing 1,407 141,150 222 Department Housing Asset Management Office families more vital roles in society. We are committed to constructing and supplying National rental housing • Long-term low-rent housing for low-income families 15,770 405,733 1,095 •‌‌Residential stability for low-income families, improvement in the public rental housing for the residential stability of low-income families and Strategic rental housing operation and management system, enhancement ‌ • Rental houses that can be purchased by the tenants after a task of integrated residential welfare services to improve quality of life rental for 5 to 10 years. solving housing instability for the future generation. Public rental housing, etc. 13,520 63,823 164 for tenants ‌ • Housing for a rental for 50 years, long-term jeonse, rental housing for foreigners, etc. • ‌Assessment of the project achievements, internal performance Buy-to-let housing Assessment assessment, customer satisfaction with public corporations (including houses sold in a ‌ • Multi-household houses that are purchased by LH and 7,662 91,850 248 bankruptcy, urban developprovided to low-income families at low rents Feedback •‌Meetings for review of project achievements ment, etc.) Low-income ‌ • Jeonse houses LH sublets to low-income families at low 15,889 63,071 families rents ‌ • Jeonse houses LH sublets to low-income newlyweds in Newlyweds 3,542 20,622 urban areas Jeonse ‌ • Rental houses designed to support college students from 282 rental College students 3,650 14,335 low-income families ‌ • Jeonse housing for households headed by children, rental Children as head housing provided for the residential stabilization of children 671 6,421 of household as the head of household Strategy Achievements Future plans Increase in Buy-to-Let and Jeonse Rental Housing for Low-income Families We aim to strengthen our roles as a public organization by • ‌23,000 units of Happy Housing construction project We plan to expand housing sales and lease from 81 % to To keep up with the government’s policy for residential stabilization for people in need, LH has made a concerted fulfilling our supply target of 2.7 million rental housing units approved by the government (102%) 83.1% with local government’s capacity under consideration effort to focus on the consistent supply of buy-to-let and jeonse rental houses available for immediate move-in in by 2023. • ‌Expansion of the construction of rental housing from 43% in 2014 to meet the government’s goal. We also plan to inWe also strive to play a leading role in introducing future-oriin 2012 to 92% in 2014 among the total projects approved crease unsold housing and apply an interest rate lower than areas with the volatile rental housing market in the short run and will continue to support people in need of housing ented housing by taking preemptive measures in response by the government market interest rate (2.45% annually) for tenant convenience. related support. In 2014, we formulated a plan to secure 23,000 jeonse houses to fulfill the goal set by the Korean govto changes in population and social changes and growing • ‌Supply of 30,000 housing units through purchase and lease In addition, we will expand our projects with a year-on-year demand for safety and others. (105%) increase of 140% in approval by the government, 111 % in ernment in 2014 and supply them early in 2015. We then signed contracts with eligible people in need in urban areas • ‌Fulfillment of its public roles for residential stability by overconstruction, and 110% in completion. with the instable jeonse market and increased financial support to KRW 5 million per household for early move-in in achieving goals of obtaining permission from the government to start construction and completing construction. 2015. As a result, we could supply 23,752 jeonse houses, exceeding a target of 22,620 jeonse houses, or 105 percent, in 2014, which accounted for 85 percent of 27,853 housing units, the total number of jeonse houses provided by the government. 30 31 Support for Residential Stability LH Sustainability Report 2015 LH Sustainability Overview LH Sustainability Issues Appendix LH’s Support for the Government’s Jeonse House Target Happy House Project for the Future Local Governments’ Targets fulfilled by LH Year Government’s Target LH Target (%) Happy House: Overview Current Status of the Happy House Project 2014 27,000 units 4,000 units 23,000 units 84% LH is committed to embodying housing welfare for everyone by expanding eligibility for rental housing to include 2015 35,000 units 5,000 units 30,000 units 85% Classification Description college students and newlyweds in addition to low-income families. Happy Houses are a type of low-rent public Residential stability and improvement of residential housing designed to be supplied to college students, newlyweds, and young people entering the workforce at conGoal welfare for the younger venient locations for work and transportation in support so that they can cut expenses on housing and social costs. Support for Early Move-In to Newly Built Apartment Complexes generation LH supported for the early move-in to the newly built rental apartment complexes as a short-term measure to relieve Happy Houses are built along with various community facilities such as national and public child care centers, job College students, newlyweds, Eligibility centers, and small libraries, serving as cultural spaces for communication and public welfare. LH plans to supply most the demands of jeonse houses in the peak moving season. LH supported move-in to 6,200 apartments in eight newly and career starters, etc. built apartment complexes, which were scheduled to be moved in from September to the end of December, 2014, Size(exclusive of the government target of 140,000 Happy Houses by 2017. 45m2 or smaller use area) by November that year, one month ahead of schedule. We also expanded the supply of permanent rental housing to Areas in close proximity to support people in the lowest income bracket. Major locations Happy House: Overview housing and jobs Consistent Construction of Public Rental Housing Districts approved for the project in 2014 Districts for the project in 2015 Samjeon (LH) 49 units Macheon (SH) 148 units Gwaja Station 362 units Sanggye Jangam (SH) 48units Increase in Rental Housing Construction Seochang 2 in Incheon (LH) 680 units Oryu Station (LH) 890 units Cheonwang 8 (SH) 298units Amid the continuous stagnation of the real estate business and the demand-supply imbalance in the rental housing Juan Station in Incheon Gangil (SH) 346 units Godeok Gangil (SH) 600units 136 units (LH) Incheon Seoul market, the consistent construction of rental housing is critical for the stabilization of the rental housing market and (4,251 units) (5,896 units) Naegok (SH) 87 units Hyangdong 1(SH) 296units Yongmaru in Incheon (LH) 1,500 units the residential stability of homeless people. LH undertook the Happy House project and the public rental housing Cheonwang 2(SH) 319 units Hyangdong 2(SH) 283units Geomdan in Incheon (LH) 1,935 units REITs in the full swing, supplying 44,000 rental housing units, up 21 percent from the previous year. We also supplied Cheonwang 7(SH) 374 units Hyangdong 3(SH) 291units 33,000 rental houses including houses for national rental, permanent rental, and the Happy House project, contributGyeonggi-do Area (19,607 units) Yangwon (LH) 924 units Sinnae 3(SH) 291units ing to the promotion of the governmental policy for the increase of rental houses. Samsong in Goyang (LH) 834 units Sinnae (SH) 200 units Segok (SH) 90units Dongtan 2 in Hwaseong 610 units (LH) Increase in Rental Housing Construction Dangjin Seokmun Jecheon Mini Complex Gwacheon Knowledge and 420units (Unit: 10,000 units) 1,464 units National Industrial 696units (Jecheon) Information Town (LH) Complex (LH) Daejeon Industrial Complex 120units Existing Project New Project Gimpo Hangang (LH) 1,500 units Chungju High-Tech (KEC Daejeon Branch) 296units Jeolla area Industrial Complex (LH) Daejeon Yuseong Complex Classification Total Public National Permanent Osan Segyo (LH) 720 units 450units Happy Public rental (3,462 units) Wolsong in Gongju (LH) 200units (KEC Daejeon Branch) rental rental rental House housing REITs Wirye New City (LH) 860 units Daedong 2 in Daejeon (LH) 700units housing housing housing Chuncheong area Baebang in Asan (LH) 1,460units Minnak 2 in Uijeongbu (LH) 812 units (7,035 units) Sejong Multifunctional 2013 3.7 1.0 2.3 0.4 Baekseok in Cheonan (LH) 562units 1,500units Administrative City (LH) 2014 4.4 0.4 0.8 0.2 2.3 0.7 Howon in Uijeongbu (LH) 812 units Doan in Daejeon (LH) 181units Seojong Seochang (LH) 450units Unjeong in Paju (LH) 1,700 units Gamil in Hanam (LH) 672 units Gyeongsang area (6,264 units) Daegu Technopark (LH) 1,022units Ami in Seogu, Busan 731units Consistent Increase of Public Housing Misa in Hanam (LH) 1,894 units (KEC Busan Branch) Daegu Innovation City (LH) 1,100units Munsan Station in Jinju LH has contributed to stably supplying public housing by carrying out the public housing projects with the goals set Homesil in Suwon (LH) 400 units 200units Jinyong in Daegu (LH) 480units (LH) Hyocheon2 in Gwangju (LH) 950units Gwangju Buk-gu in consideration of the government’s housing policy. In 2014, we exceeded the initial goal of the project by obtaining Jichuk in Goyang (LH) 890 units (KEC Gwangju Branch) 500units Sodap in Changwon (LH) 150units Busan Science Industrial Gwangju Station 540units approval of the construction of 48,000 houses, starting constructing 55,000 houses, and completing the construction Pocheon Mini Complex (KEC Gwangju Branch) 700units Inhwa in Iksan (LH) 612units Complex (LH) Mulgeum 2 in Yangsan (LH) 700units 360 units (Pocheon) Dongnae Station of 53,000 houses in 2014 and fulfilled its public duty for housing stabilization. Yonghae in Mokpo (LH) 450units Sujeong in Yeosu (LH) 250units (KEC in Busan Branch) 395units Songjeong in Ulsan (LH) 946units Godeok in Pyeongtaek (LH) 597 units Paju Publishing Complex 280 units Goals and Results of the Housing Supply Project in 2014 (LH) Demand-Centered Happy House Project Okjeong in Yangju (LH) 1,500 units In an effort to relieve the housing cost burden for the socially active younger generation, LH supplied over 80 percent Classification Goal Result Fulfillment Byeolnae in Namyangju 1,220 units of the total supply of Happy Houses by charging 60 to 80 percent of market rates with the tenants’ affordability under (LH) Approval obtained for 40,000 units 48,000 units 121% Janghyeon in Namyangju consideration rather than fixed flat rates based on the construction cost for fairness between generations and income construction (including 35,000 rental housing) (including 44,000 rental housing) (124%) 870 units (LH) brackets. Also, we construct Happy Houses on the lots reserved for public rental housing and conveniently located 53,000 55,000 units 103% Uiwang District (LH) 1,300 units Construction started (including 43,000 rental housing) (including 44,000 rental housing) (104%) within our project zones in urban areas in relation to our residential environment improvement projects. In 2014, we Balan in Gwaseong (LH) 610 units Construction 47,000 53,000 units 112% constructed 23,000 housing units and made them available to residents in metropolitan areas suffering from a shortYanggok in Gimpo (LH) 350 units completed (including 27,000 rental housing) (including 32,000 rental housing) (119%) age of rental housing earlier than others by considering regional difference in housing supply and demand. 32 33 Homeland Enhancing National Land Competitiveness LH Sustainability Report 2015 LH Sustainability Overview LH Sustainability Issues CompetitiveAppendix ness Improvement of the Capacity to Innovate Industrial Complexes Creation of the Creative Economy Valley LH supplies lots equipped with quality infrastructure in areas in favorable environmental conditions to attract businesses and ultimately contributes to balanced regional development and national industrialization. The industrial paradigm is shifting now from large-scale developmental projects based on the equipment industry to high-tech-based small and medium-scale specialized development projects. Considering the fact that there are not many business areas around urban centers that reflect the characteristics of high-tech and prospective service businesses, LH aims to create various specialized industrial complexes, such as the Creative Economy Valley, urban high-tech industrial complexes, and local specialized industrial complexes, for the vitalization of the local economy. In particular, LH is pushing 03 its project for the creation of the Creative Economy Valley with the aim of solving the problems the Pangyo Techno Issues Valley has due to the lack of spaces for expansion and developing the ecosystem of the creative economy. There have been concerns about the delay of approval for the creation of the Creative Economy Valley as the landmark of the creative economy by the government due to conflicts of interest among various relevant administrative departments > Materiality > Approach and local governments without concrete ideas about the project. However, LH could give shape to various ideas LH was launched with the aim of taking the lead in national economic Strategic about the project and suggest a practical master plan, defining roles of each organization and establishing coopera• Creation of a city with an area of 850km2 goal development through efficient use of land. To keep up with the government tive systems among them. • ‌Industry and Economy Office, National Policy Project Planning policy for the embodiment of creative economy, vitalization of the local Relevant Office, Inter-Korean Cooperation Office, Gaeseong Branch,Overseas Department Expanded designation as the Urban High-Tech Industrial Complexes economy, and the establishment of the foundation for the unification of Project Office, Overseas Project Office Korea, LH undertakes various projects to enhance national competitiveThe urban high-tech industrial complexes are the industrial complexes designated within urban regions for the Strategic • Creation of industrial complexes promotion of the high-tech industries, including the knowledge industry, culture industry, and IT industry. High-tech ness. We carry out national policy projects to take the initiative in providing task production bases for driving national competitiveness and balanced land businesses prefer locations near cities with a wealth of human resources and technology, but the areas designated • ‌Project Goal fulfillment assessment, internal performance Assessment as industrial complexes were mostly on the outskirts of cities. Moreover, the creation of an urban high-tech industrial development. assessment • ‌Review meetings, Cooperative monitoring meetings, performance complex in a metropolitan area entails a heavy burden of land cost, while that in a small local city tends to increase Feedback review reports reckless demand for development by the local government and the political circles. LH utilizes relatively cheap greenbelt areas and creates an assessment system designed to assess suggestions by the local governments to develop nine urban high-tech industrial complexes in response to a paradigm shift in the industry. LH initially created three urban high-tech industrial complexes in readily accessible metropolitan areas that require development cost. It went on to choose six more regions based on the suggestions by local governments for the discovery of innovative high-demand businesses that ensure profitability, contributing to local economic vitality. Urban High-Tech Industrial Complexes and Expected Effects Region Industrial Complex Support and Effect Strategy Achievements Future plans Area Job creation Area I Description LH is committed to increasing Korea’s capacity to innovate ‌ million-square meter lots for economic bases supplied • 3.83 LH will continue to discover new business models and re(Unit: thousand m2) (Unit: no. of people) industrial complexes, developing local strategic bases for by using diverse sales strategies, exceeding target supply gions for the stable supply of industrial lots. We will also set Incheon 233 Industrial complex linked with the Southeast National Industrial Complex 2,540 economic vitalization, and consolidating the foundation for (136%) reasonable goals reflecting the goals set by the government Daegu 169 Eco-friendly complex in proximity to housing and jobs 1,807 economic development in the future. In particular, we are • ‌Investment worth KRW 10.4 billion attracted through flexand improve our capacity to fulfill the goals. Gwangju 195 R&D-based research complex related to the Gwangju High-Tech District 1 2,119 carrying out inter-Korean cooperative projects and overseas ible negotiation skills and improvement of environmental projects as part of our preparation for the unification of Koconditions Total 597 6,466 rea and the opening of new markets abroad. • ‌Investment for the development of a cluster in a joint Area Financial support Area II Description industry-university-research effort attracted (390,000 ㎡) as (Unit: thousand m2) (Unit: KRW 100 million ) a foundation for local economic development Daejeon 106 High-tech industries, such as biotechnology and ICT 10 • ‌Entry to markets abroad through support by private busiUlsan 300 Automobile-related specialized industry, energy-related industry 15 nesses (20) and stable profits Namyangju 283 High-tech industries based on smart grid and renewable energy 7 Gyeongsan 295 Cluster based on IT convergence, LED convergence, and R&D 60 Suncheon 181 R&D, MICE, and business service bases in the Gwangyangman region 14 Jeju 164 Complex based on IT and culture, system s/w development, etc. 21 Total 1,329 127 34 35 Enhancing National Land Competitiveness LH Sustainability Report 2015 LH Sustainability Overview LH Sustainability Issues Appendix Designation of Business Districts as Specialized Local Industrial Complexes Criteria for the Participation in New Projects In accordance with the government’s policy to boost the local industries, LH designated several preferred business As more and more local governments want to participate in the projects for the development of free economic districts, where demand for specialized local industries was high, in partnership with local governments, and formudistricts, LH assesses each candidate city and selects the cities with potential for growth as local economic bases on lated a plan for the project in December, 2014. We then selected three model districts where demand for specialized the basis of the criteria set by LH. LH selected two candidate cities in five years since 2008 for review in accordance industries were secured and local governments participated in creating guidelines for the project. We will continue to with revised laws and LH’s own verification system. In November 2014, LH formulated investment attraction strategies do our best to boost the creative economy by enhancing industrial competitiveness and creating jobs through the based on the midand long-term goal for the attraction of investment into project for the creation of Hana Dream construction of the customized industrial complexes that make the best of the strengths the regions have for the proTown by 2017. LH then selected potential investors of the demand-driven project in each district for negotiation. As a motion of the specialized industries. result of its effort to attract investment in the industrial-academic clusters as local economic bases, LH could see a 387 percent increase in investment from the previous year. Project for the Creation of the Specialized Local Industrial Complexes Investment Attraction Strategies Region Specialized Strengths Area Suggestions and Industry Compromises District Regional Goal Project Jinju Carbon fiber •A‌ cluster of carbon fiber-related businesses, academia, 825,000m2 ‌ • Support of over 1 percent of and research cluster including Hyosung Carbon Plant construction cost Cheongna in ‌ • Projects that can create synergistic effects with the ‌ • International financial complex: selection of project • ‌Provision of vity-owned land Incheon launch of Hana Dream Town operators (March 2015) Jinju and Aviation • Korea’s largest aviation industrial cluster 1,650,000m2 Sacheon for free Yeongjong in ‌ • Tourism, leisure, and education facilities that utilize ‌ • Business proposals by investors of resort complexes • ‌Purchase of unsold industrial Incheon location advantages accepted (July 2014) Milyang Nano • ‌A cluster of nano-related organizations, including 1,650,000m2 lots (three years after the • ‌Negotiation with overseas education institutions convergence the University of Nano Science and Technology completion of construction) (May 2014) Myeongji in • Large-scale projects that can promote the brand of ‌ • Global campus town: contract stated to be signed in Busan the local economic district 2014 Vitalization of the Regeneration of Old Industrial Complexes • ‌Development of business lots: selection of developers In April 2014, LH inspected 83 industrial complexes across the nation jointly with the Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, (August 2014) and Transport, the Ministry of Trade, Industry and Energy, Korea Research Institute for Human Settlements, and Korea Industrial Complex Corporation to come up with customized measures to enhance their competitiveness. In an effort Improvement of Residential Conditions to promote the project for the regeneration of old industrial complexes LH has undertaken since 2009, we proposed As the relocation of public institutions to Sejong City is in the final stage, the population of Sejong City jumped from the revision of relevant laws and the legislation proposed by lawmakers for the revision of the “Industrial Sites and De19,000 (including 5,822 civil servants) in 2012 to 76,000 (including 16,500 civil servants) in 2014. LH is making an effort velopment Act” was completed in November 2014. We also promoted the model project of the Seo Daegu Industrial to improve residential conditions in the administrative city by expanding facilities in diverse areas including housing, Complex with the premise of support by the local government and assurance of high demand and profitability and transportation, medicine, and education and operating cultural programs to enhance quality of life for newly settled signed an MOU with Daegu City in December 2014. As a result, Daegu City provided LH with a buffer green space for civil servants as well as local residents. In order to promote the sustainable growth of Sejong City, LH enacted the “Criteria free, which helped LH relieve the financial burden of the project and carry out the project for land use and land regenfor the Support for the Attraction of Self-sufficient Facilities in the Multifunctional Administrative City” and succeeded eration in relation to the surrounding conditions. in luring 64 investors, including Korea University and Chungnam University Hospital. Expansion of the Economic Base in Local Cities Improvement of Residential Conditions in Sejong City • ‌Households increased from 3,225 in 2013 to 16,696 in 2014 Support for the Self-sufficiency of Local Cities Housing (increased 5.2 times from the previous year) LH is developing local cities in accordance with its midand long-term yearly plan to lay the foundation for the gro• Commercial facilities increased from 240 in 2012 to 2,526 in 2014 qth of the national economy. In order to vitalize investment in the free economic zone LH is developing and attract Commercial • Hospitals, restaurants, markets, etc. businesses to it, LH is improving the investment climate by revising relevant laws and upgrade the traffic network Facilities • ‌Two wholesale stores opened near Cheongsa and Cheotmaeul and launch of Costco finalized (June, 2014) and infrastructure in it. As major projects designed to elevate the global stature of the international city in Cheongna in Incheon have been delayed for several years due to conflicts among governmental institutions, LH signed an • ‌Daejeon-Sejong City-Osong (express buses increased from 21 to 27), bus operation increased from 80 times to 110 times a day agreement to solve problems of each project and start carrying out the projects in full swing. As a result, LH signed Transportation • ‌More access roads to government buildings and residential streets in apartment complexes a contract for the Hana Dream Town in July 2014 and for City Tower in November 2014. It also opened Hosu Park in increased (140 km out of 388 km) September 2014 ahead of schedule. In addition, we expanded major traffic networks for better accessibility before • ‌Chungnam University Sejong Hospital in the new LH building Medical Service (13 medical departments and emergency clinic) the Incheon Asian Games 2014. We also formed a task force team consisting of local residents, LH, and the local government to consider the introduction of the new mode of transportation, Bi-modality Tram, as a long-term traffic imEducation • Schools increased from 7 in 2012 to 59 in 2014 provement project. • Water parks near the Bangchukcheon stream, Geumgaerguri Ecological Wetland Park Culture and Leisure • ‌Recreational sporting facilities including pathways and bike lanes, facilities for train and bike * ‌Bi-modality Tram: A new mode of transportation that can run on the road like a bus or on the railway automatically like a subway. Infrastructure tours, etc. It boasts high fuel efficiency, punctuality, and large-capacity accommodation. 36 Enhancing National Land Competitiveness Ethical LH Sustainability Report 2015 LH Sustainability Overview LH Sustainability Issues Management Appendix Consolidation of the Basis for Economic Growth in the Future Inter-Korean Cooperative Projects In its effort to take preemptive action in response to changes in the relationship between the two Koreas and Korean government policy and secure a basis for future-oriented sustainable businesses, LH is active in discovering inter-Korean cooperative projects that reflect the Korean government policy. In November 2011, LH was named the organization responsible for drawing up the basic plan for the DMZ World Eco-friendly Peace Park in partnership with relevant LH departments and private institutions. We aim to participate in the project for the creation of Peace Park by successfully fulfilling the task and consolidating our capacity for future projects, contributing to laying the foundation for the unification of Korea. Foundation for the Vitalization of Businesses Abroad LH is vomited to fulfill its public roles by supporting local engineering companies for their stable entry to markets Issues 04 abroad. Armed with its public confidence and technological prowess and experience in urban and housing develop> Materiality > Approach ment areas, LH formed a cooperative system with local civil engineering and design businesses and undertook seven Strategic • To‌ consolidate the ethical management system through the The sustainable growth of a company lies in ethical management. Corruption international cooperative development projects in Honduras and other nations jointly with 12 private organizations. Goal reinforcement of national monitoring (2014) and malpractice cause business aggravation and violation of human rights. It It also supported eight private businesses for their bids for four projects in Santa Cruz in Bolivia and other global cities. • (Basic norms) Ethics charter and employee code of conduct also has a negative effect on society and environment as a whole. System ‌ • (Detailed standards) guidelines for public interest disclosure, guidelines We also have engaged in cooperative projects with various nations to lay the foundation for private businesses to for the prohibition of complimentary golf outing and speculative acts Accordingly, stakeholders want an ethical organization with integrity. make forays into overseas markets and supported small and medium-sized businesses for their activities on the world LH faithfully abides by laws and ethical standards in business operations in • ‌(Planning and management) qualitative and quantitative expansion of stage by utilizing local civil servants. In November 2014, LH successfully held the Asia-Pacific housing and urban minRelevant order to earn stakeholders’ trust. the integrity ombudsman, installation of an ombudsman assistance team Department • ‌(Practice and inspection) standing auditor, auditor, Anti-corruption taskforce isterial conference with an attendance of 170 officials from 29 nations, consolidating its international cooperative network. In addition, LH won a bid from Multilateral Development Bank (MDB) for the first time, opening up a new market Strategic • Reinforcement of external monitoring and public activity abroad. LH will continue to do its best to serve as a public coordinator that supports private businesses for their entry Task • Consolidation of internal bonding through communication to overseas market and a master developer of a public-private joint venture. ‌ • (External) assessment of integrity, company policy on anti-corruption, Assessment and sustainable management • (Internal) internal performance assessment, diagnosis of ethics LH’s Support of Private Businesses for their Overseas Projects ‌ • Implement of measures for integrity, ethical management, and Feedback sustainable management • ‌Review of the fulfillment of the tasks suggested by integrity ombudsman Seven cooperative international development Support for four project bids for the projects in various nations including Honduras construction of a new city in Santa Cruz in held Bolivia and others > ointly ‌ by 12 private > joined by 8 private businesses businesses Support for Joint projects project bids Strategy Achievement Future Plan Under the vision of “Clean LH with the people,” LH Rated “mediocre” in the assessment of the anti-corLH is in the process of developing additional ethical has established ethical and transparent manageruption prevention measures management index for external investigation in its ment strategies linked with mid-term management Rated AAA (93.5) in the sustainable management prompt response to a recent corruption incident. goals of the corporation. As a result of a consistent assessment We also strive to spread anti-corruption and integFinancial support effort, LH raised its integrity rating one step through rity messages in the firm. In 2015, we plan to make Discovery, planning, its monitoring program in 2013 and reinforced its it compulsory to submit a report on retirees when for the discovery of and proposal of new new businesses by ethical management system through tighter external signing a private contract and tighten anti-corrupprojects the private sector monitoring, emphasis on public activity, and internal tion measures by adopting the degradation system bonding through communication. In particular, we (i.e., incentive reduction). In addition, we will come up Financial support worth take preemptive action to prevent corruption and with measures to prevent illicit favors and solicitation Proposal for the formulation of KRW 23 million to cover the expenses for any misconduct and strive to spread integrity by and promote integrity through peerless integrity a master plan for the satellite vity of project planningand proposal (Rwanda and Uganda Hoima Refinar Mozambique) in the previous year launching campaigns 38 39 Ethical Management LH Sustainability Report 2015 LH Sustainability Overview LH Sustainability Issues Appendix Ethical Management System Ethical Management Monitoring LH has consolidated its ethical management system in a bid to fulfill its ethical management goals in relation to its LH monitors and gathers customer feedback to strengthen ethical management activities. In 2014, LH became the firmwide strategic goals in 2014. It practices ethical management by revising its code of ethics with changes in a first public corporation to establish the integrity ombudsman preliminary monitoring request procedure to expand business environment under consideration. In 2014, we stipulated job attitude in relation to lectures given outside LH, proactive monitoring functions. We consult with the integrity ombudsman about suggestions before revising the integrated a prohibited gift handling system, and drew up detailed guidelines for the purchase and use of gift certifsystem and reflect the recommendation of the integrity ombudsman to improve the practicality of the system and icates for transparency. We also increased the number of external watchdogs of integrity ombudsman from three to increase the participation of outside watchdogs in management. five in order to reflect opinions about management in a diverse way and lay the foundation for business transparency. In addition, LH has undergone outside assessments, such as the integrity survey, anti-corruption policy assessment, Moreover, we redesigned the ethics education program for efficiency. We expanded in-house training for executives and sustainable management assessment by the Anti-Corruption & Civil Rights Commission, and responded promptand invited experts for special lectures on integrity. We also emphasize field education and operate a customized eduly to the assessments to stress ethics in management. In the wake of a recent corruption-related incident uncovered by outside monitors and the consequent fall of LH’s general integrity index, LH is developing the ethical management cation program by expanding the online education program curriculum and period. index for outside audit as part of its action plan in 2015. Corruption Prevention Program Integrity Ombudsman Preliminary Monitoring Request Procedure 【 Future Plan in Accordance Number of reports (Unit: reports) In LH, five relevant departments assess integrity practices in six areas with high potential for corruption, including land Business ManIntegrity Business ManIndividual with External Assessments 】 Each Department agement Office Ombudsman agement Office Departments compensation and supply, construction inspection, quality test, facility maintenance and repair, rental housing man‌ • Compulsory reporting about Notification of the review agement, and personnel business. Also, we reflect individual employees’ integrity practice in the internal performance Request for review of ① Repetition of the 53 the retired employees and Review and results results (① recommendaprocedure after reflection 49 various regulations Periodic request Delivered tions for improvement, or assessment to promote work ethics and integrity. Moreover, we publish a handbook of the code of conduct for emtheir recent activities in and guidelines for of the suggestions/ case when signing a private (within a week) ② Approval of the original ployees and diagnose employees’ ethical consciousness and integrity five times a year regularly to reinforce personal revision (draft) ② System improvement contract plans ethics. We encourage employees’ participation in ethical management by revising the internal report system in rela‌ • Formulation of anti-cortion to ethical management. The internal report system is designed to establish voluntary reporting, which resulted Result of Internal and External Assessments ruption measures for the 53 in an increase of the number of reports to 53, or an 8 percent increase, from the previous year. In addition, we make the company regulations open to the public in order to enhance transparency and increased the number of items for prevention of illicit favors and solicitation involving relevant Classification 2012 2013 2014 employees General Integrity Index Grade 5(8.15) Grade 4 (8.11) Grade 4 (7.82) 2013 2014 public announcement, such as the use of gift certificates. We strive to meet people’s rights to know about our activiAnti-Corruption Policy Assessment Excellent Exellent Average ‌ • Adoption of the degradation ties for policy fulfillment by sharing plans for business stabilization and implementation of government 3.0. Internal Integrity Assessment 9.06 9.58 9.68 system (incentive reduction) as part of the punishment Sustainable Management Assessment AAA (93.8) AAA (90.4) AAA (93.5) of employees who violated Spread of Integrity as Part of Life anti-corruption policy ‌ • Promotion of LH’s peerless Voluntary Internal Control With growing public interest in anti-corruption as the basis, LH, along with the Anti-Corruption & Civil Rights Commisintegrity education and sion and Transparency International Korea, led the launch of the Korean Network on Anti-Corruption and Transparency practices LH carries out preventive audit activities through system improvement, including cooperation between relevant dein September 2014 with a participation of 35 institutions. As an audit organization representing public corporations in partments and audit departments and expansion of voluntary inspection. We inspect propriety of firmwide internal the anti-corruption governance, LH is in charge of investment transfer and cost allotment and stages the private-pubcontrol of the COSO (Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission) internal control framelic-governmental integrity campaign to expand the realm of its integrity practices and spread integrity practices as work components (in areas related to accounting, spending, bond management, information and communication, part of life. In addition, LH holds the “Clean Win-Win Meeting” with its suppliers on a regular basis as part of its effort to etc.) to analyze weaknesses of internal control and revise them. We analyze the activities that have been pointed out spread integrity practice and prevent corruption. repeatedly so that the audit department sets tasks to be fulfilled and the relevant departments take voluntary action to correct them. Also, we created manuals for various areas, including product inspection from the market perspective and control of tax risk elements, through collaboration among various departments. In addition, we utilize the checklist that reflects high-risk factors for each department to review its observance of the management guidelines internally and suggested voluntary revision or audit exemption. In particular, we adopted the whistle blowing system in July 2014 and punished one employee after the in-depth internal investigation of 73 reports submitted. LH stipulates in its “Employees’ Code of Conduct” and “Employment Regulations” that employees are prohibited from accepting special treatment or borrowing money from people involved in the projects or job-related people. Accordingly, an employee who was involved in a bribery scandal in relation to real estate brokerage and advertising outsourcing was dismissed from his or her position. * ‌COSO internal control framework components consist of control environment, risk assessment, control activities, information and communication, and monitoring. 40 41 Human Talent Management LH Sustainability Report 2015 LH Sustainability Overview LH Sustainability Issues Resources Appendix Management Employee Data As of 2014, the total number of LH employees is 6,121, a 5.5 percent decrease from the previous year. We strive to effectively utilize our current human resources for debt reduction and business stabilization. As a result of our effort to recruit female workers and nurture them, female employees are on the rise consistently with 20.3 percent of the total employees. As of 2014, the average annual wage of a newly recruited employee is KRW 25.49 million, roughly 195 percent of the legal minimum wage. Employment Data Employee Data per Job Level and Gender Classification 2012 2013 2014 (Unit: persons) No. of total employees 6,510 6,477 6,121 Issues 05 Job level Employees Executives Level 1 7 74 Male 7 72 Female 2 No. of total irregular employees Ratio of female employees (%) Ratio of female employees holding team leader positions or above (%) 362 18.7 1.1 326 18.9 1.6 388 20.3 1.8 Level 2 427 424 3 > Materiality > Approach Ratio of employees with physical disabilities (%) 3.8 4.9 4.0 Level 3 1,938 1,860 78 The sustainability of a company lies in recruiting talents who meet the image ‌ lay the business foundation for performance creation • To Level 4 2,660.30 2,209.30 451 Strategic a company desires and nurturing them into core personnel with professional Goal through advancement in organization, personnel relations, and performance management Level 5 28 12 16 Ensuring Diversity expertise. The longevity of a company requires a performance-based reward Level 6 602.4 239 363.4 • ‌‌ILO, compliance with related regulations including system without any discrimination and a pleasant workable environment that System Others 383 337 46 Expansion of the Female Workforce Labor Standards Act, company regulations on employment, etc. ensures work-life balance for employees. We are acutely aware of the social * ‌As of December 2014 (except employees on milLH does not discriminate its employees based on sex in terms of employment, duty assignment, training, and wage. Relevant • Personnel Management Office, Labor Relations Office itary duty and parental leave for over six months, We have strived to increase the female workforce since the adoption of the female recruitment target system in issues that have been addressed consistently, such as employment without Department as well as those slated to take maternity leave discrimination, equal opportunities and diversity, gender pay equity, win-win 2012. In order to increase the number of female mangers, we provided women employees with leadership training ‌ • Periodic performance assessment (by team and by quarter), Assessment programs and, as a result, 111 female workers were promoted through the position promotion system in 2014, which labor-management relationship, and employees’ safety and health, among internal management assessment Target ratio of female managers exceeded the target of 96 employees by 15. We have promoted female employees based on the goals we set for the others, and strive to improve them. • Tour presentation about organization and personnel Feedback management (Unit: persons) yearly female manager ratio and the duration required for a female employee to get promoted. As a result, we could • Performance management consulting 5.0% shorten the duration for the promotion of female workers by over a year or more than the goal duration. In addition, 4.6% 4.2% we increased the number of female workers in the promotion review committee to ten to raise the ratio of the female 3.9% promotion review committee members. 124 114 104 96 Employment Based on Social Equality LH provides equal employment and promotion opportunities for all its employees without any discrimination based on sex, age, regional origin, and education and makes an effort to maintain diversity in employment. In 2014, for Strategy Achievement Future Plan instance, we recruited a total of five people, including one woman, two local talents, and three engineering majors due to the management stabilization program and, consequently, our lack of capacity to hire a large number of emLH is committed to developing its employees’ capac• Social equity in employment and promotion We will adopt the practical annual wage system that 2014 2015 2016 2017 ployees. In an effort to address issues related to aging population and senior poverty, we have maintained the senior ity and increasing the number of women managers. • ‌Increase in female management through the procan enhance work efficiency and productivity by reemployment program and recruited 2,000 seniors in 2014 for diverse tasks, including the safety inspection of LH rental We also strive to maintain fairness in personnel manmotion system (111 female employees promoted flecting individual capacity and performance in the housing facilities, tenant surveys, and support for seniors living alone. agement. in 2014) pay system. We will also upgrade the performance • Competency-based promotion system through a management system by incorporating diverse Employment Data (Unit: persons) new personnel relations system for fair personnel opinions on the performance management system management through training and conferences and improving the Category 2012 2013 2014 New regular recruits 486 17 5 • ‌Establishment in performance-based annual wage personal assessment system. 508 546 318 system for executives and installation of the jobYouth interns (with high school diploma) (100) (106) (63) based pay system for non-supervisory workers Senior employees 2,000 3,000 2,000 Workers in short-term employment 160 102 109 42 43 Talent Management LH Sustainability Report 2015 LH Sustainability Overview LH Sustainability Issues Appendix Talent Nurturing Performance-based Organizational Culture Talent Nurturing Strategy Fairness in Personnel Management LH aims to nurture talents equipped with a sense of social responsibility, customer-centered creative expertise, and a In accordance with the CEO’s determination, LH launched a new personnel system based on three principles in team spirit as the basic capacity. To that end, we run a training program designed to produce value-oriented creative human relations: performance, competency, and balance, in a bid to improve management constitution and lay the talents, trend-setting leaders, and performance-oriented experts. In 2014, we expanded the core-value training into a foundation to overcome crises through personnel innovation. We replaced the seniority-based duty assignment syscyber training program in a bid to organize all employees to fulfill our vision. tem with the multi-faceted competency rating system to improve the job performance appraisal system and build a promotion and evaluation system that values high-performance organizations and individuals. We will continue to Training Program Data (Unit: persons) improve our personnel system by identifying and analyzing factors that hinder fairness in promotion and cause emAnnual Training Budget ployees’ distrust. Classification 2013 2014 (Unit: KRW 100 million) Total 67,055 68,228 █ In-firm █ Outside █ Total Core value/leadership capacity development 706 2,366 Reward in Proportion to Performance Work capacity 1,905 2,195 LH’s personnel system had been based on seniority with a lack of practical difference in wages and personnel matters, 70 78 81 Long-term commissioned education/in-firm university 200 239 but it placed a twice greater emphasis on performance assessment and upgraded the performance management 54 48 Self-development (language training, licenses) 2,088 2,175 system based on the reasonable organizational and individual assessment. We also expanded the performance-based 42 Career development (retirement, continuing education) 333 261 annual wage system for executives to meet the criteria suggested by the government by paying the high-perfor30 Others (seminars, integrity, legal education, etc.) 46,773 40,843 28 27 mance executives over twice as much as the low-performance executives and paying over 30 percent of the total Cyber/distance education 15,050 20,149 annual salaries as the performance-based annual salaries. We will develop a practical annual wage system that reflects each employee’s competence and performance fairly to Customized Training Program improve work efficiency and ultimately productivity by 2017. LH operates a variety of training programs based on surveys on demand for training and discovery of necessary ca2012 2013 2014 pacity and offers tailored training programs to meet individual needs based on personal capacity assessment. We held Reasonble Reward System the leader capacity training program 11 times for 303 newly promoted employees and the professional asset manager program twice for financial project staffers. In 2014, we expanded the execution of the in-firm budget in accordance PerformanceCategory Basic Annual Wage Personnel Reward Others related Pay with the expansion of in-firm education programs, including job training and professional certificate programs. Organization Promotion/ Reward Higheducation Recognition/ performance Wagedifference No. of Participants in Training Programs per Rank Individual Wage difference benefit (Unit: persons) up to three times Reward money up to twice between the Performanve Rank 2012 2013 2014 between the Organization highest and the management highest and the Low-performers Total 49,489 67,055 68,228 Lowlowest lowest Transferred consulting 1 493(1%) 670(1%) 1,001(1%) performance (accumulative) temporarily Capacity improvement Individual 2 3,704(8%) 4,733(7%) 4,934(7%) program 3 15,406(31%) 23,008(34%) 22,260(33%) 4 29,886(60%) 38,644(58%) 40,033(59%) Industrial Accidents (Unit: %) Health and Safety LH abides by the “Occupational Safety and Health Act, “Labor Standards Act,” and “National Health Insurance Act” for Career Development Training LH provides its employees with diverse training programs tailored to each rank. LH Land and Housing University offers the health and safety of its employees. It also installed the Industrial Safety and Health Committee for the safety and two degree programs, including construction management and construction technology for employees without colhealth of labor and management. We allow our employees to have a medical examination at least once a year on a 0.1 lege degrees and 40 employees attend the specialized LH job program and the field training program. We also offer regular basis and installed the “Occupational Safety and Health Center” in 2014 for the promotion of employees’ health. the defined benefit retirement pension plan for retiring employees for their stable life after retirement and provide Also, we offer the weight management program (for 120 employees) and stress-related counseling programs (over 0.02 them with retirement planning and life design education programs. In addition, we provide retirement planning and 0.02 0.02 250 times) for employees. In addition, we conduct a workplace safety assessment and industrial safety and health life planning for employees preparing for retirement within 10 years can receive training in mid-to-long term financial education on a regular basis and manage workplace safety in accordance with the regulations on negligence-related redesigning, and retirement preparation through the LH Future Planning Academy. In addition, we provide employees 2012 2013 2014 accidents and disasters. preparing to retire three years later with business startup and career change programs. 44 45 Rights Human Rights Management LH Sustainability Report 2015 LH Sustainability Overview LH Sustainability Issues Management Appendix Flextime Operation (Unit: persons) Prohibition on Discrimination Part-time work 0.25% 0.23% Improvement of Labor Conditions for Employees without College Degrees LH consistently improves its wage and welfare programs for employees without college degrees, unlimited contact 16 workers, and irregular employees. Employees without college degrees start their career in LH as level-6 workers and 14 paid 85 percent of the initial pay of employees with college degrees (level 5). They are given career opportunities including promotion or pay raise roughly equivalent to the initial pay of employees with college degrees after six years. 14 They receive the welfare program identical with that for regular workers and have the opportunity to earn bachelor’s degrees at the in-house university. 2013 2014 Improvement of Labor Conditions for Irregular Workers 06 Staggered Work Hour Program (Unit: persons) LH started paying the basic job-related pay to unlimited contract workers and irregular employees, changed the title Issues 2.40% of unlimited contract workers from “assistant workers” to “workers,” and launched the financial aid program for the education of employees’ children in 2014. We also promoted 94 short-term workers to unlimited contract position, al147 > Materiality > Approach lowing them to join core projects and receive 90 percent of the average initial pay of employees with college degrees. 0.59% Issues on human rights, including prohibition of discrimination, sexual Strategic ‌ lead business stabilization through a win-win labor-management • To equality, the right to collective negotiation, child labor, forced labor, and Goal relationship Creating a Sound Workplace 38 aboriginal rights have been constantly addressed. Also, there is a global Relevant Department • Labor Relations Office 147 Vitalization of Flextime consensus that organizations are responsible for the protection of individual • ‌Improvement of the wage and welfare programs for irregular 2013 2014 Due to LH’s recent intense drive for management efficiency for debt reduction and welfare cutbacks, LH employees rights affected by labor. LH is committed to protecting human rights of its employees and embodiment of an organizational culture based Strategic Task are under mounting stress, especially now when the LH Headquarters is slated to move to a local city soon. In order to employees, partners, customers, and natives in the workplace. on communication and understanding between labor and management help its employees maintain an ideal work-life balance, LH aims to improve quality of life to improve work efficiency. Parental Leave Data (Unit: persons) In accordance with the CEO’s decision to implement flextime in August 2014, the number of LH workers who utilize Assessment • Internal management assessment (Labor-Management Council) flextime for various purposes, such as child rearing, study, medical treatment, has increased 2.9 times. 201 208  • Daily and weekly performance assessment, performance analysis, 188 Feedback survey, etc. Work-Life Balance LH expands its support for employees’ childbirth and parenting to address Korea’s demographic problems, such as low birthrate and aging population. LH runs two daycare centers with a capacity of up to 270 children. It created the 188 parental leave program in July 2014 and 91 percent of eligible employees are now taking advantage of the program. LH has also encouraged its employees to use annual vacation leave in an effort to relieve employees’ long workload. 2012 2013 2014 In its effort to improve its organizational culture, LH created a long-term vacation program in 2014, which would allow employees to take at least five days or longer off, and reflected employees’ use of annual leave in the internal 2014Parental Leave Data (Unit: persons) assessment. As a result, the number of employees who used annual leave and the long-term vacation program has inStrategy Achievement Future Plan creased. LH also has run customized programs, which are designed to build family bonds, such as Parent Camp, Family Camp, and Couple Camp, seven times. A total of 660 LH workers have joined the programs and 93.6 percent of them LH strives to improve its wage and welfare programs •‌ ‌Additional pay raise for irregular workers, payment We will continue to improve the wage and welfare 179 showed their satisfaction. in order to expand the flexible working hour system of the job-based wage to unlimited contract workprograms for irregular workers and eliminate discrimand create a pleasant workplace with equal opporers, and school expenses covered for employees’ inatory factors in the personnel relations system. Also, tunities. We build mutual trust and understanding children, promotion of irregular workers to unlimitwe will do our best to create a pleasant workplace 9 Human Rights-related Grievance Management and improve communication based on partnership ed contract position (94 employees) environment through employees’ grievance manLH held the “Self-Searching Workshop” in order to help emotional laborers, the first point of contact with customers, between labor and management. • ‌No legal action or sanctions caused by discriminaagement. relieve their stress and boost their morale. The workshop was held eight times and over 400 employees joined it. In Male Female tion reported during the reporting period order to create a workable environment, we also underwent an objective diagnosis of the sexual harassment prevention system by an outside organization and conducted in-depth interviews and surveys. In doing so, we have come up with nine measures for institutional improvement, including the vitalization of the anonymous report system and punishment of employees convicted of sexual assault. 46 Human Rights Management Customer LH Sustainability Report 2015 LH Sustainability Overview LH Sustainability Issues Satisfaction Appendix Creation of an Organizational Culture based on a Win-Win Labor-Management Relationship Labor Union Data A Win-Win Labor-Management Relationship LH is committed to maintaining fair labor relations management and balanced management based on law and prinClassification LH Labor LH Labor Union Union ciples and preventing labor-management conflicts by drawing up a crisis management manual under the multiple Korea National labor system. We have strived to build consensus by operating a labor-management taskforce and implementing Korea Land Background Housing cooperative measures for a labor-management agreement and earn trust by taking aggressive action to boost emCorporation (L) Corporation (H) ployees’ morale. As of 2014, a total of 4,954 employees or 90.5 percent of the employees belong to labor unions. No. of Union 3,067 1,887 Members Federation of Organizational Culture with Active Communication and Consensus between Labor and 07 Federation of Korean Trade Korean Trade Management Superior Organization Unions, Public Unions, Federation of An Organizational Culture Based on Communication and Consensus between Labor and Management LH has solved Issues Korean Public various pending issues related labor and management through diverse channels of communication and offered Services Industry Trade International accurate information about management-related problems faced by the corporation in case when there are serious Unions > Materiality > Approach changes in business activity. In 2014, LH utilized both official channels of communication, such as wage bargaining As the government focuses on residential welfare more than on development, Strategic and labor-management meetings, and unofficial channels of communication, such as labor-management lunch • To achieve customer delight Goal meetings and weekend sporting activities, to consolidate two-way communication channels and build a firmwide there is growing attention being drawn to LH’s roles and social contribution. consensus for management stabilization, succeeding in communicating with an open mind directly with each other. As LH was launched with the aim of achieving national housing stabilization, System • Customer Charter, core service standards LH operates employees’ grievance management program to handle and complaints about various issues related to LH is committed to providing the products and services customers are ‌ eneral Affairs Department, General Affairs & Customer Satisfaction • G Relevant working conditions of the field employees and prevent conflicts of interest between field workers and office workers. satisfied with. To that end, we will supply quality land and housing at Office, CS leader and manager of each office, Safety and Disaster Department Prevention Department in Construction Safety Office affordable prices and establish a demand-centered residential welfare service LH Channels of Communication in 2014 system for customer delight. Strategic • Management for customer satisfaction, regulatory reform, etc. Task Classification Communication Channel and Result Assessment • Public-service Customer Satisfaction Index (PCSI) Collective bargaining held 6 times and working-level bargaining held 7 times Open labor-management meetings held 4 times Labor-management council division meetings held 141 times and 571 issues handled (87.7% of issues accepted) Labor-labor-management joint workshop (labor-management suppliersunion executives) Collective Labormanagement joint workshop (managementboth unions) with 180 people in attendance CEO labor union branch manager lunch meetings (twice a week) CEO monthly morning assembly held 12 times and special assembly held once Nationwide field conference about pending issues about management (March 4 ~ 24), workshops held 5 Official times Labor-labor-management joint meetings about headquarters relocation held 3 times Two surveys on labor-management relations and organizational convergence (all employees) Strategy Achievement Future Plan Organizational culture-related idea contest (135 ideas entered and 23 comments) CEO – employee lunch with an open mind (188 employees in 51 departments) LH gives top priority to its customers in all business • ‌Scored 95.6 (grade-A) at the Public-service CusLH will expand its CS activities and defect mainteCEO letters and emails (7), on-site inspection (33 offices) Individual affairs and strives to provide its customers with the tomer Satisfaction Index (PCSI) by the Ministry of nance and spread safety consciousness nationwide. 899 complaints handled by the grievance management office 108 comments on new personnel relations system and 1,646 LH suggestions utmost services. We are developing houses tailored Strategy and Finance We will also adopt the marketing tag system to 3,450 post-in notes for communication to customer demand by reflecting changes in life• Established a regulartory reform hot-line system better reflect and manage customers’ opinions and 48 green-ink letters (hit 128,599 times) style and population and social structure. We strive • Created a safe residential environment for residents improve the customized designing process for cusLabor-labor-management informal meetings on a regular basis held 63 times to sharpen the competitive edge of our products by tomer safety and satisfaction. CEO – union head meetings on a regular basis (including weekend meetings) GpGgi program (7,351 employees in 83 departments) reflecting customers’ demand in designing houses Unofficial Self-driven field experience of local culture joined by 446 employees and embody customer satisfaction and customer 1,368 comments posted on the labor union anonymous bulletin board safety throughout the whole process from design to LH news (twice a month), LH in-house newsletter (once a month) construction to supply. 48 49 Customer Delight LH Sustainability Report 2015 LH Sustainability Overview LH Sustainability Issues Appendix Customer Satisfaction Management System Communication with Customers CS Strategy VOC Management Public-service Customer Satisfaction Index LH aims to embody customer-oriented management to enhance customer satisfaction through its midand longLH operates the VOC (voice of customer) system for integrated management of customers’ opinions and complaints. (PCSI) term CS strategy. We will strive to enhance public trust as a top-notch institution in customer satisfaction by providing We promptly respond to the information collected through diverse VOC channels in accordance with the related regClassification 2012 2013 2014 customer-oriented services. We utilize the Public-service Customer Satisfaction Index (PCSI) conducted annually by ulations and procedures. In particular, we share useful opinions and complaints with relevant departments to reflect Customer the Ministry of Strategy and Finance for service improvement. LH scored 95.6 in the PCSI in 2014, up 9.5 points from them in our midand long-term management strategies. We make the criteria for VOC classification by type and proExcellent Fair Grade-A satisfaction the previous year. cess of sorting out VOCs open to the public through our webpage. * ‌The PCSI assessment in 2014 is based on relative grading (S, A, B, C) in accordance with the PCSI master plan by the Ministry of Strategy and Finance. Organization Hot-line System for Regulatory Reform LH is taking the initiative in carrying out CS activities by selecting a CS leader and a manager in each department LH launched a hot-line system designed to respond promptly to customers’ suggestions on diverse regulations that headed by the Management Support Headquarters to fulfill firmwide CS management. We build an organic coopcause inconvenience throughout the whole construction processes including compensation, design, construction, erative system that links the field with the headquarters through the CS Management Committee, CS Management sale, lease, and defect repair. We gather VOCs related to regulations and review them for reward. We reviewed 83 cusAdvisory Committee, and CS Working-Level Committee. Also, we assess each department’s fulfillment of the CS goals tomers’ suggestions by December, 2014, inmplemented three of them, including early return of the bid bond, since assigned to it and offer performance-based rewards to employees as part of its effort to boost employee engagement the launch of the system in April 2014. for the improvement of customer satisfaction. Information Disclosure and Information Security Policy LH Call Center LH runs LH Call Center to provide customers with counseling services in all areas about LH projects, including LH plans for land and housing supply and plan schedules, required documents, and information about LH, among others. We Expansion of Information Disclosure also offer counseling services by phone, text message, and email as well as ARS services and the LH alert for areas of LH launched the LH 3.0 for openness, sharing, communication, and cooperation in line with the Government 3.0 poliinterest. cy that stresses communication and cooperation through active disclosure and sharing of public information. In order to guarantee the public rights to know and encourage them to participate in the government administration based on information available, LH started providing one-click services for the public in 2013 for the public to have ready Integrated Rental Housing Portal access to public data, such as the integrated rental housing DB and increased proactive disclosures from 112 to 133. LH provides customers with beneficiary-centered customized information service through its integrated rental housing portal that contains information about all rental housing across the nation. Reinforcement of the Information Security System Information leakage and other incidents that threaten cybersafety and the constant evolution of sophisticated hacking techniques call for tighter national information security policy. Accordingly, LH upgraded its information security guidelines and built an information security management system in a bid to protect its information security environment in accordance with the relocation of the headquarters. We created a cyber attack management manual and Customized construction and services to 【 Customer Suggestion and Feedback System 】 meet customers’ needs revised detailed guidelines for information security, the cyber risk management manual, and DDoS attack manual for systematic information protection. We also implemented LH Clean Day in every quarter to boost security awareness LH strives to meet customers’ needs in constructing and perform a PC diagnosis and provided periodic training in cyber security for all employees including security-reand providing services by incorporating VOCs gathM/H preliminary Customer Assessment lated staffers. We have taken various measures to prevent accidents related to information security and, as a result, we VOC analysis Listening to VOCs ered through diverse channels. assessment Team received a rating for excellence for two consecutive years at the information security management assessment by the In 2014, LH built the Customer Suggestion Feed‌ • Housing design-related • Survey of contractors • ‌Preliminary assessment ‌ • Comparison with private Nation Information. We will reflect the information security index in internal assessment to encourage active security VOCs analyzed in 2013 and sales counselors of the model houses of M/H back System to review the action taken to reflect (1,148 VOCs) • Interviews ‌ with the head newly built apartment • Improvement of activities and reinforce the protection of internal information resources through network separation. customers’ suggestions and needs in housing de• Joint ‌ field inspection by of the management complexes(Mokgam management facilities in sales and design departoffice of the newly built in Siheung, Dongtan in apartment complexes sign. We operate diverse channels of communicaments apartment complex Hwaseong, Galmae in Personal Information Protection Practices tion with our customers to better understand their Guri) LH makes a concerted effort to prevent the leakage of customers’ private information collected in relation to business needs and incorporate VOCs in housing design, Second review: activity. We analyzed the private information management process in 42 systems for 60 tasks and selected 20 tasks First review: Housing Sales housing supply, and housing management. Working-level Committee Marketing Tag System Team (22 issues identified) in eight areas for improvement. In 2014, we 810,000 records of unnecessary private information and codified three (16 issues identified) million records. We have fulfilled 17 tasks, including the creation of an informed consent form for private information * ‌Marketing Tag System: A system designed to assign an identification number to each customer suggestion that can contribute to quality improvement and manage and review how the suggestions are reflected in housing design. collection. 50 51 Customer Delight LH Sustainability Report 2015 LH Sustainability Overview LH Sustainability Issues Appendix Enhancement of Customer Convenience Resident Safety The disaster management systems tend to be run mostly in the construction sites, but LH has established a comprehensive emergency management plan for the residents’ life and property. It conducted mock drills for the heads of the Improvement of the Supply and Contract System apartment complex management offices and provided education programs for effective initial responses. In 2013, LH As the period of application acceptance for the candidate tenants of national rental housing is not fixed and compliconducted aerial training once in 2013 and mock drills three times in 2014. Also, LH took measures to prevent disascated required documents cause customer inconvenience, LH decided to accept the applications four times a year on ters by eliminating hazards. For instance, LH conducted a survey of hazards in 2014 and eliminated or fixed 1,384 risk a regular basis during the fixed periods so that customers could prepare for the application in advance. We operated factors, such as shoe racks, balcony shelves, kitchen furniture, sinks, and loosely placed built-in cabinets, and elevators, the fixed application acceptance system on a trial basis in November 2011 and saw an increase of the number of and carried out a safety inspection in each quarter and took corrective steps to ensure safety in seven areas, including applicants. Also, we streamlined the candidate tenant selection processes from the existing five steps to three steps construction, public works, electricity, machinery, landscape, and elevators. and cut the number of items for point assignment from ten to four. In addition, we reduced the number of required documents from 36 to 8. The tenants of rent buy-to-let multi-household housing had to visit the LH office in person Disaster and Safety Management Practice for Residents for contract renewal or contract cancellation because buy-to-let multi-household houses are scattered across the nation and there is no buy-to-let multi-household housing management office. With the simplification of the procedure, however, we could simply send official mails to customers without undergoing complicated processes and handle customer services more efficiently while improving customer convenience through online application submission. Management System Performance Facility Improvement and Maintenance and Management Service In response to tenants’ demand for the installation of sash windows on the hallway to keep heavy rain draining into ‌ • Disaster and negligence-related accident management manual and the hallway and prevent freezing, LH is installing sash windows in 112 apartment complexes (91,000 units) since 2011 • Reinforcement ‌ of initial education (5 times held with an attendance of 516 people) An accident and gradually replacing asbestos-containing materials with non-asbestos materials in 114 community centers. Also, responses • ‌Disaster and negligence-related accident management manual and outbreak • Mock drills education for residents (3 times, Maetan Apartment Complex 6 in we replace the elevators, heating system, sidewalk blocks, and balcony windows of 82,000 apartments in 78 rental Suwon, etc.) apartment complexes what are 15 years old or older with new ones. We run a call center for repair-related counseling since March 2014 to provide customers with standardized counseling services and promptly handled the calls for cus‌ • Survey of 580,000 households in 795 apartment complexes • Hazards survey Accident (1,348 items in six major hazard categories eliminated and fixed) tomer satisfaction. We have expanded the counseling channels nationwide since August. Currently, 74 counselors are ‌ • Prevention of accidents prevention • ‌Quarterly safety management inspection (corrective measures taken caused by negligence working for tenants in 900,000 rental apartments across the nation. to handle 760 items in seven hazard categories) Responsibility for Products and Services Responsibility for the Provision of Information about LH Service LH clearly explains major content the service it provides through printed documents. In terms of advertisement, we Measures for Zero Defects in Public Housing comply with the laws and regulations of the Korea Advertising Review Board. All our business activities including marIn its effort to take a leap forward to earn customers’ trust, LH formulated a comprehensive strategy for quality innoketing also abide by relevant laws and firmwide guidelines. vation and zero defects in each process, including design, construction, and move-in and, as a result, saw a 10 percent decrease in defects per household from 0.42 in 2013 to 0.38 in 2014. We have adopted the housing quality expert sysCreation of Safe Towns tem for layout verification at the beginning of construction to remove factors with defect potential and safety issues, ensuring housing quality with zero defects. We have also introduced the resident evaluation system for prompt, preAs safety has become a major social issue, LH applies findings of various case studies for crime and disaster prevention cise, and friendly defect repair services, which allows residents to inspect their apartments and evaluate the constructo the designs of new towns and builds safety reinforcement systems to create safe towns. We create safety model tor, to minimize defects. In addition, we updated fire extinguishing facilities and CCTV design criteria in public housing towns through various safety tests and research and evaluation of crime prevention and traffic safety in existing new and distributed guidebooks and stickers to raise public awareness of safety. towns and expanding integrated control systems in parks and schools. We also separated the traffic flows for students from those for adults and built an entrance control system for students’ safety as part of its plan for the creation of school facility complexes. As Korea is expected to become a post-aged society in 2026 due to low birth rates and population aging and consequent structural changes in social population, it is imperative to build a town which protects social minorities. LH has come up with criteria for designing a town, such as land use for seniors, children, and people with physical disabilities and open spaces, and installed road surface marking and speed bumps in Hyocheon in Jeonju. We also created a women and family-friendly park in Wirye New Town on a trial basis and plan to increase such parks through monitoring. 52 53 Shared Shared Growth LH Sustainability Report 2015 LH Sustainability Overview LH Sustainability Issues Growth Appendix Shared Growth Promotion System 2014 LH Shared Growth Project Strategy for Shared Growth LLH’s suppliers include 215 construction businesses and 377 contractors for design, survey, and impact evaluation, Goals for shared growth among others. We aim to fulfill our social responsibility by promoting fair gain sharing and prohibiting unfair trade. To leap forward to become a model comWe set our practical goals every year to reflect them in our plan for the promotion of shared growth, reinforcing the pany through the launch of a firmwide winshared growth system that incorporates the government policy and organizational mission. In 2014, we set out 18 win partnership system strategic tasks with “leaping forward to become an excellent business in shared growth through the launch of a firmwide win-win partnership system.” Strategic Goal 08 Regulatory reform and systematic improvement Expansion of Relevant Departments Issues for win-win partnership (5 examples) LH installed a department responsible for shared growth in 2013 in order to promote shared growth along with the department. In 2014, we added six more departments to the Department of Shared Growth. We also hold a regular Expansion of benefit sharing and support for small and medium businesses (5 examples) meeting in each quarter and periodic special meetings in partnership with the Shared Growth Promotion Committee > Materiality > Approach to inspect to review and support the progress of the projects. Increase of opportunities for small medium Strategic • ‌To achieve shared growth and leap forward to become a top-notch businesses’ direct participation (4 examples) As the global business environment is rapidly changing due to technological Goal company through a firmwide win-win partnership development and diversity, a company should be able to form a network with Enhancement of the feedback system and awareness of shared growth (4 examples) Monitoring a variety of stakeholders in order to see sustainable growth. Building a System • Mutual Partnership Act LH conducts the supplier satisfaction surveys in seven areas, including public administration, evaluation and inspecwin-win partnership with various organizations including suppliers and Relevant • ‌Department relevant to shared Growth, Shared Growth tion, subcontract, safety and environment, professionalism, responsibility, and integrity. In 2014, we held the Win-win creating shared value lead to shared growth and, ultimately, national Department Commission Win-win Partnership Training Data Partnership Clean Meeting with small and medium businesses to collect their opinions. Especially, we launched the economic development. We are committed to contributing to national • ‌Regulatory reform and institutional improvement, expansion of Shared Growth Center to focus on practical win-win partnership, which is designed to provide small and medium Year Employee Training Supplier Training benefit sharing and expansion of support for small and mediumeconomic development by realizing national residential stability through Strategic businesses with one-stop service by promptly handling grievances among small and medium businesses. We collectsized companies, expansion of the opportunity of small and 2012 178 employees ‌ • Win-win Partnershared growth with suppliers and becoming a world-class land and housing Task medium-sized companies to participate directly, feedback, (for newly ship Clean Meeting ed and solved 68 grievances in 2014. enhancement of awareness of shared growth recruited) for 57 people service provider through efficient land use. 2013 1,730 employees • ‌Win-win PartnerAssessment • Assessment of the public organizations’ effort for shared growth (training in construcship Clean Meeting Spread of Win-win Partnership tion supervision, for 494 people LH is committed to raising awareness of shared growth firmwide by developing practical programs for shared growth training on tour on subcontracting both internally and externally. We enacted and proclaimed the Shared Growth Charter that reflects our determination transactions) to push shared growth and opened a website devoted exclusively for information on shared growth. We also set “The 2014 874 employees • ‌Win-win PartnerValue of ‘Together’ with LH” as its motto for advertisement. We run various training programs for employees at local (training in construcship CleanMeeting tion supervision, for 494 people for headquarters and branch divisions, such as training in construction supervision training on tour on subcontracting workshop on unfair 1,042 people transactions on a regular basis, and for suppliers, such as the “Win-win Partnership Clean Meeting” and training on tour subcontracting) • ‌Special training for 40 employees on subcontracting transactions. relevant to subconStrategy Achievement Future Plan tractors LH Shared Growth CharterLH Shared Growth Charter LH is doing its best to fulfill its plan for the promo•‌‌Won the Presidential award for its contribution to • ‌Establishment of a shared growth system incortion of shared growth and achieve shared growth opening new markets for small and medium-sized porating organizational mission for the capacity to We will recognize small and medium businesses as our win-win partners and take the lead in develOne, oping them through consistent communication and systematic improvement. with small and medium-sized businesses through businesses through the launch of the “Four-Step take action for shared growth a win-win partnership. We pursue practical win-win Support System for the Opening of New Markets • Active discovery of hidden tasks for benefit sharing LH does its best to build a sustainWe will take the lead in sharpening the competitive edge of small and medium businesses on the for Small and Medium-Sized Businesses” for expansion able management system through Two, global stage through our systematic support system for technological development and opening of partnership by expanding benefit sharing, building shared growth for a brighter and new markets for their products. • ‌Support for small and medium-sized businesses • ‌Support for improvement in small and medium sounder future of Korea. For the cooperative systems with various relevant organithrough the expansion of the benefit sharing businesses’ perception through communication creation of a healthy corporate We will make a concerted effort to vitalize communication among diverse parties and eradicate zations, and allowing small and medium-sized busiecosystem and realization of the Three, unfair trading practice. We will also actively participate in establishing win-win partnership for the fair system (increase of tasks for benefit sharing and and outsourcing nesses to directly participate in mutual partnership creative economy through win-win construction industry by complying with related laws and regulations. reward of benefit sharing) • ‌Effort to raise shared growth rating through the partnership with small and medimore actively. um businesses, we are determined We will present new value of shared growth in the public sector with the firm belief that the growth • Establishment of the order of fair trade through fulfillment of tasks in conjunction with the policy to fulfill the following: of small and medium businesses leads to LH’s growth. regulatory reform and the foundation for a win-win recommended by the government and investment Four, These are the top four values of business administration we pursue. We will do our best to fulfill winpartnership in shared growth win partnership and shared growth with small and medium businesses as our goal. 54 55 Shared Growth LH Sustainability Report 2015 LH Sustainability Overview LH Sustainability Issues Appendix Establishing a Fair Trade System Fair Payment Practice LH aims to create a fair construction environment through fair payment practices. We adopted the payment monitoring system jointly with banks in seven districts including Siheung Eungye District on a trial basis and found it effecAdoption of the Bidding System based on Comprehensive Evaluation on a Trial Basis tive in preventing late payment, achieving “zero overdue wages.” Driven by the success of the payment monitoring LH adopted the bidding system based on comprehensive evaluation in June 2014 on a trial basis to replace the lowsystem, we plan to adopt the overdue wage record management of each supplier along with practical measures to est bidding system for public construction projects worth over KRW 30 billion and applied it to 11 projects, including take action in order to prevent recurrence of overdue payment and arouse attention. We plan to manage the overdue the construction of Homaesil B8 Block Apartment Complex in Suwon, Gyeonggi-do. The comprehensive evaluation management record of each supplier through the Construction Technology Information System (COTIS) and reflect it system, a bidding system designed to select the successful bidder by evaluating capacity in construction work, bid in the PQ evaluation by deducting points (0.5~3points). price, and social responsibility of each bidder, allowed LH to ensure the quality of construction and raise the basic cost so as to distribute proper costs to the subcontractors. In an effort to prevent problems caused by the lowest bidding system, LH evaluated the bid prices and the appropriateness of the bid price per each type of work and subtracted Support for Small and Medium Businesses points in case the bid price was over 15 percent lower than the basic cost. We also raised the subcontract prices to at least 82 percent of the bid price, contributing to the establishment of the bidding system based on the comprehenExpansion of Benefit Sharing sive bid evaluation. LH has continued its effort to improve various systems and institutions by establishing a LH-style win-win partnership model by preventing unfair subcontract and, further, focusing on spreading benefit sharing. We actively operate the Electronic Bids Data Shared Growth Promotion Committee to expand the benefit sharing system by reflecting the characteristics of each Transparency in Bidding and Contracting Practices Total Bids (Unit: bids) institution. We identified tasks for benefit sharing in four areas, including cost reduction, quality improvement, R&D, LH is striving to improve transparency in bidding and contracting practices. We internally institutionalized the prohibiand market opening, and, as a result, saw an increase in the number of private contracts and the amount of benefit 2,577 tion of private contracts with LH retirees and built a retiree inquiry system to ensure transparency in private contracts sharing. Benefit sharing allows us to introduce outstanding technology and innovative products to the field, ensuring and made it compulsory to hold a Contract Deliberation Committee meeting when imposing sanctions on unfair 2,235 2,208 cost cut and quality improvement in construction work, one the one hand, and helps small and medium businesses parties. We also revised the guidelines to make it mandatory for outside committee members to attend the meeting enhance their credibility and open new markets through the public verification of their technology and products to ensure fairness in the sanctions. All the biddings at LH are conducted by electronic bidding system to enhance 2,208 transparency. Electronic biddings in 2014 accounted for 100 percent except 31 turnkey-based projects and nine largeBenefit sharing System scale projects for which electronic biddings are not possible. 2012 2013 2014 Cost Reduction Quality Improvement Supplier Evaluation Process • Cost ‌ reduction through joint •‌Support for technology developElectronic bids (Unit: bids) LH shares its awareness of integrity with its suppliers by requiring the successful bidders and contractors to sign the development of new technology ment through the utilization of Integrity Memorandum of Agreement. We monitor our suppliers’ practices by checking the payment monitoring sys> ‌Joint patent application for waste Projects and testbeds 2,574 recycling and benefit sharing in two Achievements > ‌two new technologies for noise 2,232 tem and subcontract transactions to evaluate the suppliers’ sustainable management activities. Also, we are focusing projects worth KRW 16.8 billion reduction between floors 2,168 on minimizing the impact of our suppliers on the environment and society by capitalizing on internal systems such as subcontract transaction guidelines and inspection task guidelines. In addition, we inspect the possibility of human 2,168 rights violation in the stage of reviewing risks for cooperation or investment. We make it a rule not to be involved in transactions with suppliers and subcontractors that have a record of human rights violations or engage in controverR&D • ‌Support for technology development: Market Opening • ‌New technology contest: seven tech2012 2013 2014 five new technologies worth KRW 500 nologies worth KRW 1 billion, including sial activities that may violate human rights. million, including high-efficiency pump foamed warm-mix asphalt mixture • ‌Development-to-purchase new • Urban ‌ design technology contest: Ratio of electronic bids products: five technologies including the 13 technologies including multi-drain (Unit: %) Adoption of the Voluntary Fair Trade Inspection System technology of manufacturing soundproof metal sewer 99.9 99.9 LH has adopted the voluntary fair trade inspection system in the headquarters, local headquarters, and branch divipanel without Sound-absorbing materials 98.2 sions on a regular basis. We identified 47 incidents that violate the fair trade act, such as status abuse, and took action to draw up detailed plans for improvement. Increase in opportunities for small and medium businesses’ participation The proportion of the joint-venture system with prime contractor will increase from 5 percen to 40 percent LH plans 98.2 Subcontract Transactions LH operates a subcontract center consisting of 137 employees in each branch division to check subcontract transacto expand the adoption of the joint-venture system with the prime contractor in its effort to lower the barriers to market entry for small and medium businesses. We increased the number of districts to adopt the joint-venture system 2012 2013 2014 tions biannually and payment status every month on 3,784 subcontractors at 408 work sites. In 2014, we expanded with the prime contractor from three in 2013 to eight in 2014. Also, we have revised the evaluation criteria in relation * ‌Large-scale development: The successful bidder the Win-win Partnership Clean Meeting and training for employees related to subcontract transactions, resulting in a to bidding and contracting in order to increase support for businesses run by women and hold contests for new techis selected not by a construction contract in 44 percent decrease in unfair trade practices from previous year and a 27 percent down in the number of illegal subnology, new materials, and new construction methods, leading to practical win-win partnership with small and mediaccordance with the Act on Contracts to Which the State is a Party but by a land supply method. contract transactions from the previous year, or 109 incidents. um businesses through communication with them and support for their entry to new markets and capacity building. ** Turnkey: The successful 56 Shared Growth Community LH Sustainability Report 2015 LH Sustainability Overview LH Sustainability Issues Contribution Appendix Products by small and medium businesses Small and Medium Business Product Purchasing Policy purchased LH faithfully adheres to the small and medium business product purchase quota system in accordance with the (단위: %) government policy by selecting the public purchase support manager in each department. We encourage social mi57.2 54.7 nority-owned businesses to participate in bids by increasing bids for special as well as general construction works and adding points to businesses with excellent management conditions. We also expand the permissible range of private 51.6 contracts to give small and medium businesses more opportunities to participate in bids. Small and medium and other social minority-owned business products purchased (Unit: 100 million) 57.2 Businesses 2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 Small and medium businesses 52,985 59,928 60,911 Women-owned businesses 2,379 3,344 3,368 R&D businesses Green businesses Social enterprises 480 266 11 507 741 15 948 1,675 47 Issues 09 > Materiality > Approach As the business activity of and management of a company has a great • To‌ become a reliable top-notch public organization through CSR Support for the Economic Activity of Small and Medium Businesses in Industrial Vision activities Complexes economic, social, and environmental impact on local communities, An analysis of small and medium businesses in the industrial complexes nationwide shows that the number of CSR (corporate social responsibility) activities, especially those based on System • Sharing Fund, Matching Grant businesses with 300 or less employees accounts for 97.8 percent as of the third quarter of 2014, calling for support business characteristics, are highly emphasized. Relevant ‌ • Social Contribution Department, LH Sharing Volunteer Corps, of small and medium businesses for their early and stable settlement in industrial complexes. In order to support ecoIn order to earn the public trust and meet growing public expectations for Department CSR Advisory Committee (inspection body) nomic activities of small and medium business in industrial complexes, LH signed a MOU with the Small and Medium CSR activities, we should push our limits further to contribute to realizing Strategic • I‌mprovement of residential welfare, contribution to local Business Corporation (SBC) in June 2014 for the establishment of a cooperative system designed to utilize business national development and happiness by fulfilling our social responsibilities Task communities, vitalization of volunteer work strengths. We then provided small and medium businesses with direct loan services by utilizing the money from land for local communities. • ‌Consultation with outside organizations (CSR Advisory CommitAssessment sales as policy funds to help them solve problems caused by their location and promote the commercialization of the tee, private organizations), employees’ opinions (CSR workshops, and surveys, etc.) CSR activity evaluation (internal assessment after the outstanding technology produced by small and medium businesses, contributing to the vitalization of the local econMonitoring termination of CSR projects, assessment by an outside organization) omy and employment. Feedback • CSR performance measurement system Support for small and medium businesses through the building of a cooperative model with public organizations Support for Support for Business outstanding businesses in diagnosis and businesses with industrial information technological complexes sharing profitability Strategy Achievement Future Plan LH aims to improve quality of life for residents of lo• ‌Employees’ CSR activities for 61,274 hours (10 hours • ‌Expansion of support for the improvement of • ‌Recommendation of small and • ‌Fund support for R&D, Preferential ‌ • Fund support for R&D, Prefercal communities and improve the local environment per person) residential welfare for local residents medium businesses that bought purchase of the products develential purchase of the products for the development of local communities, cherish• KRW 6.7 billion budget executed for CSR activities • ‌Improvement of the environment of local commuLH industrial land to the SBC, bond oped completely developed completely transfer ing the value of sharing and participation. nities • ‌Purchase of lot with bonds, sup• ‌Financial support for small and •‌Policy fund-related formation Small and Medium port of policy funds medium businesses supported sharing with LH, small and mediBusiness Corportation by LH for commercialization, um business diagnosis, consulting (SBC) facility support, and promotion of commercialization Provision of KTW 11.2 billion to nine Support of (LH) KRW 600 million, Presentation held three times and Outcome businesses (SBC) KRW 300 million business diagnosis held four times 58 59 Contribution to Local Communities LH Sustainability Report 2015 LH Sustainability Overview LH Sustainability Issues Appendix CSR Promotion System LH’s Specialized Residential Welfare Improvement activitie Strategy Customized CSR Activities for Rental Housing Tenants at All Phases of Life Aiming to realize its vision to become a reliable top-notch public corporation through its CSR activities, LH is pushing LH is engaging in CSR activities for rental housing tenants at all phases of life so that rental housing can not only meet various CSR projects by building the CSR promotion system based on its goal of establishment and realm of business. the housing needs of low-income families but it also can become a happy space with vitality. We create jobs for tenTo that end, LH is carrying out 11 tasks by focusing on enhancing residential welfare, contributing to local communiants, support tenants who want to stand on their own feet, create an environment ideal for children’s education, and ties through green activities for the improvement of the worn-out environment while preserving clean nature, and support tenants to enjoy a happy family life throughout their lives from childhood to old age. practicing CSR activities for sharing. Strategy for CSR Activities Stategy for CSR Activities Childhood • Local childcare centers: 37 Direction of CSR Activities ‌ • Mentoring program: agreement signed • ‌Education and childcare service for with 17 colleges for 220 children children of rental housing tenants • Meal service for children: 3,206 children in 106 rental apartment complexes nationwide Expansion of Support for job outside partnership Adolescence ‌ • Scholarship for children of rental •A ‌ total of 261 children with creation and rental and consolidation of housing tenants KRW 1.3 million per person housing internal capacity Young Adults • ‌Support for the launch of commu‌ • Jobs created for 257 tenants in 30 social nity-based social enterprises for job enterprises creation for tenants • ‌Joint wedding ceremony held every year Tasks • Joint wedding ceremonies for tenants for 270 people in total and financial support provided for couples’ honeymoon Old Age • Recruitment of seniors • ‌Jobs created for 2,000 seniors Improvement of Contribution to Vitalization of CSR Activities • Gimjang making event and rice cake • ‌Gimjang gimchi and rice cake soup making Residential Welfare Local Communities soup sharing for living-alone seniors • Welfare improvement for residents • Community vitalization • Expansion of employee participation Gimchi distributed to 950 seniors • Job creation for residents • Consolidation of NGO cooperation • Increase in manual labor volunteer work • Stabilization of life for local communities • Formation of local networks • Spread of the spirit of sharing Four tasks including the launch of Four tasks including the creation of Three tasks including Gimjang gimCommunity-based Social Enterprises in Support for Employment and Self-Reliance through the Launch of community-based social enterprises green apartment complexes chi making event in winter Operation “Community-based Social Enterprises” Rental Housing Started in 2010, the “Community-based Social Enterprise” system not only creates jobs for rental housing tenants but Major Business Complex it also helps develop local communities qualitatively, realizing social value. LH has been providing low-income tenants Background Seonghwa in • Local food business of rental housing complexes with jobs and social services by supporting the creation of “community-based social • Sharing Cafe LH carries out CSR activities led by its CSR Corps and Sharing Volunteer Corps in 33 branch divisions across the nation, Cheongju enterprises,” which produce, sell, and trade products and services to meet the needs of tenants and reinvest the profit • Libraries and study rooms along with the CSR Advisory Committee, an inspection body designed to ensure efficient CSR Activities. Moreover, we generated from the economic activities for the sustainable development of local communities. As of 2014, a total of 30 • Safe lunch box have adopted an incentive system to encourage employees to actively participate in CSR activities, operating the CSR Yulha in Daegu • Safe vegetable garden community-based social enterprises are in operation. • Happy Counseling Office performance index that reflects the number of hours individual employee spends for CSR activities and selects excel• Vegetable Garden lent examples of one-branch division with one brand. Outstanding departments and employees are rewarded. LH’s Iksan in • Food service CSR activity is supported financially by the company budget (donation) through the matching grant and employee’s Jeollabuk-do • Farmer’s market Support for Education and Scholarships • Lunch box delivery LH provides support for the education of children of low-income families living in rental housing. We run 37 local chilSharing Fund. Paju in • Side dish sales dren’s centers in the community centers in rental housing complexes nationwide to provide tenants with childcare Gyeonggi-do • Culture and welfare service and education services. We also run a mentoring program jointly with 17 colleges to help children of low-income famFeedback System ilies make their dreams come true by providing them with academic tutoring, career counseling, and other interactive LH is committed to carrying out SCR activities beneficiaries are satisfied by consistently improving its SCR practices. activities. In addition to the mentoring service, we offer practical support through scholarships worth 350 million anWe review and improve our SCR activities through consultation with outside organizations, including the CSR Advisonually for the college education of children of rental housing tenants. ry Committee and private organizations, and their reviews. In 2014, we developed the CSR Evaluation Index bases on the surveys we conducted in order to consolidate our SCR practices. We also inspected ten community-based social enterprises from July to December and launched a project for the development of a SCR performance measurement and evaluation model. 60 61 Contribution to Local Communities LH Sustainability Report 2015 LH Sustainability Overview LH Sustainability Issues Appendix Support for Tenant Happiness Sharing Activities by LH Volunteer Corps LH has provided children from double-income families and low-income households with free lunches during school vacation periods since 2005. As of 2014, LH is offering free lunches to children living in 106 rental housing complexes. Sharing Fund, a Financial Source for LH’s CSR Activities We support for tenants’ happiness by hosting joint wedding ceremonies for local residents, including rental housing LH’s CSR activities are led by the LH Volunteer Corps, along with employee’s voluntary participation and volunteer tenants and multi-cultural couples, who have not yet married, due to financial difficulties. All expenses for the wedding activities. LH employees are making contributions through voluntary payroll deductions from KRW 1,000 up to KRW and honeymoon are covered by LH. Started in 2004, the joint wedding ceremony is held every year and 270 people 50,000 a month. The money thus collected is donated for social causes or disaster relief as LH employees’ contribution tied the knot in 2014. or used as a financial source for various CSR activities by LH Volunteer corps in local communities. In 3014, 78 percent of LH employees, or 5,012 people, joined the effort to collect KRW 340 million in total. Support for Local Communities Improvement of the Social Environment of Local Communities Expansion of Employee Participation LH is engaging in the project for the “Creation of Eco-friendly Communities” by utilizing its technological prowess and LH employees are actively participating in firmwide CSR activities. In 2014, LH launched the “One Branch Division One the expertise of its human resources for the improvement of the worn-out environment of local communities. We creBrand” project to help the local community where each branch belonged to, by visiting socially vulnerable people, doated 34 eco-friendly parks and playgrounds and walkways in old worn-out residential areas across the nation and are nating their skills, assisting with personal care needs, such as bathing, or distributing food. A total of 5,374 LH employworking on 12 more areas in 2015. We also undertake a home improvement project for living-along seniors, flophouse ees participated in a variety of activities, including gimchi and briquette delivery to the underprivileged and repairing occupants, and other people living in poor conditions by repairing and replacing damaged roof areas and restrooms of worn-our houses. In 2014 alone, LH employees committed 61,274 hours in total, which translates into ten hours per and installing new flooring and wallpapering. In 2014, 11 households in Gyeonggi-do were chosen for the home imperson. provement project. Promotion of Social Contribution through Collaboration Local Community Vitalization LH is promoting joint CSR activities through collaboration with other organizations for efficient CSR practice. We LH is contributing to vitalizing local communities by utilizing its assets for VSR activities. We run the “Vegetable Garden joined the Union Corporate Committee, a labor-management volunteer organization, to engage in global CSR acSharing” program by utilizing LH-owned land that has been left unsold for a long time. For instance, we turned the tivities by helping 40 multicultural families from Vietnam through medical service, services for family members in 15,000 square meter land in Heungdeok in Yongin, 9,000 square meter land in Haga, Jeongju, and 13,000 square meter Vietnam. LH took the responsibility for the home improvement project. Also, LH collaborated with local governments, land reserved for school construction in Yulha, Daegu, into vegetable gardens for local communities for free. We then businesses, and broadcasting networks to build a public children’s center for children of low-income families living in supply the vegetables produced in the gardens to local childcare centers and local nursing homes and other faciliHwacheon-gun, a remote mountainous area. LH and its employees supported for construction expenses and providties for senior citizens, urging local residents to participate in social contribution activities. We also have joined forces ed volunteer work. with local governments, rental housing management offices, tenants, and welfare centers to run win-win partnership councils for community vitalization for rental housing tenants. In 2014, LH formed residential welfare governance in conjunction with local communities and increased governance complexes to 737 across the nation. ➊ ➋ ➍ ➌ ①Children tenants scholarships ②Sharing garden ③Wood playground gaejangsik ④Joint tenants wedding Employee volunteering 62 63 Green Green Management LH Sustainability Report 2015 LH Sustainability Overview LH Sustainability Issues Business Appendix Green Management Promotion System Green Management Strategy In accordance with the Korean government’s “low carbon green growth” policy, LH has formulated four strategies and ten tasks to fulfill its vision of “becoming a “leader of green growth with the creation of world-class green cities and green housing.” We will do our best to minimize greenhouse gas emissions and environmental pollution through business activities and management systems with environmental aspects under consideration. Vision and Strategy for Green Management Vision A leader of green growth with the creation of world-class green cities and green housing Issues 10 Four Strategies I. Construction of II. Construction III. Establishment of green housing IV. Green green cities and of a greenhouse > Materiality > Approach and improvemanagement establishment of emissions reducpractice ment of energy the foundation tion system As global warming deepens the environmental crisis, causing draught, flood, • ‌To construct green cities, lay the foundation for the green industry, efficiency Strategic build green housing, improve energy efficiency, build a greenhouse heat wave, and ecosystem destruction and the consumption of fossil Goal emissions reduction system, and realize green management fuel-based energy leads to the rapid increase of greenhouse gas emissions, Ten Tasks ‌ 1. Development of 4. ‌Development of 7. Creation of the 9. ‌Establishment of System • Environment-related guidelines a model for green green housing carbon emissions a green managethe whole world is not making a concerted effort to minimize their cities and creation construction inventory ment system environmental impact. The Korean government is pushing the low carbon Relevant ‌ • Complex Technology Office, Environment and Traffic Office, General of model green technology and 8. Development of 10. ‌Increase of green green growth policy” in the wake of the recent energy crisis and climate Department Affairs and Customer Satisfaction Office, Urban Facilities Office cities increase in green CDM projects and activities 2. ‌Establishment of housing registration with change with increasing natural disasters. In line with the government’s vision, Strategic ‌ • Establishment of a greenhouse gas reduction system and a basis for the 5. ‌Increase in the the UN Framework LH aims to take the lead in fulfilling the government’s vision by focusing on Task realization of green management green industry use of renewable Convention on 3. ‌Establishment of energy and green Climate Change the construction of green housing and the improvement of energy efficiency. a green transconstruction portation system materials and increase of 6. ‌Increase in carbon absorpresource recycling tion sources Organizations for Green Management Practice LH is pushing various projects, including green city and CDM projects and green housing and renewable energy distribution projects with the Green Growth Department Technology Standard. The General Office and Customer Satisfaction Office is in charge of industrial safety and public health among the tasks related to energy conservation Strategy Achievement Future Plan in the headquarters. Also, the Green Growth Promotion Committee reviews and makes decisions about various issues related to green management practice, while the Energy Conservation Promotion Committee focuses on efficient LH pursues eco-friendly land development, • Purchased green products worth KRW 167.5 billion Firmwide emphasis on the practice of energy conenergy management and conservation. eco-friendly urban development, collective energy servation programs, and clean development mechanism (CDM) projects in order to fulfill its environmenGreen Management System tally-friendly vision in constructing and supplying LH makes a special effort to minimize the impact of all aspects of its business operations on the environment in accorhousing. To that end, we are emphasizing the endance with the environmental policy. We take various environmental aspects related to the impact of our organizavironment management system in organization tional and business activities on the environment under consideration when setting the environmental goals of each administration and business management. department and utilize environment-related laws, industrial criteria and standards that are applied to our environment-related organizations and product services in our work. We have continued to perform various tasks to improve the environment, such as environment impact assessment and preliminary damage inspection and assessment for ISO 14001 certification. 64 65 Green Management LH Sustainability Report 2015 LH Sustainability Overview LH Sustainability Issues Appendix Greenhouse Gas Emissions Reduction System Energy Consumption Fossil fuel City gas Electricity Heating (Unit: TJ) 2012 19.3 28.6 199.4 20.9 268.2 Establishment of the Carbon Emissions Inventory In an effort to reduce 30 percent of greenhouse gas emissions by 2020, LH has applied the Green City Carbon Emis2013 23.0 30.7 237.9 22.7 314.4 sions Inventory to city planning and the green model city expansion plan. We use the city carbon emissions inventory 2014 22.1 20.8 230.1 23.2 296.2 in order to manage carbon emissions of each green category, such as construction, renewable energy, transportation, and resources, among others, in addition to the total carbon emissions of the city. We monitor carbon emissions in each area through the online carbon emissions analysis system (http://co2analysis.lh.or.kr). This system is also used for Scope1* Scope2** (Unit: tCO2e) setting unit reduction target and developing CDM projects through the analysis of economic feasibility. Greenhouse Gas Emissions 2012 2,785 10,962 13,747 Development of CDM Projects 2013 3,187 13,032 16,219 LH is joining efforts to address environmental change at home and abroad, such as the UN UNFCCC (United Nations 2014 2,608 13,789 12,663 Framework Convention on Climate Change). In 2009, LH registered the renewable energy project in Sosabeol district in Pyeongtaek into the UNFCCC; since then, LH continues to develop CDM projects for urban development in order to * Scope1: Heating fuels at head offices and worksites (stationary combustion), fuels for vehicles (mobile combustion) ** Scope2: Electricity use at head offices and worksites secure carbon emission trading rights. As a result, LH translated its achievement in reducing greenhouse gas emissions through the installation of solar power generation facilities in public rental housing into a CDM project and registered the “CDM for the Program for Water use Recycling Rate Water Consumption and the Application of the Renewable Energy Systems to Apartment Houses in Korea” with the UNFCCC in May 2013. The Recycling Water use Amount of recycling (Unit: ton) (Unit: %) installation of the solar power generation facilities we support is expected to reduce greenhouse gas emissions equivalent to planting 61 million pine trees and secure 180 thousand tons of carbon emission trading rights by 2030. 2012 128,991 12,038 2012 6.9 2013 199,011 11,755 2013 5.9 Minimization of Environmental Impact 2014 229,031 20,278 2014 8.8 Energy Conservation Drives LH is making diverse efforts to reduce the use of fossil fuel in its business operations, such as replacement of busiWaste Discharged and Waste discharged (general waste) Waste discharged (hazardous waste) Recycling ness-purpose vehicles with hybrid and other eco-friendly vehicles, and reduce direct energy use through the impleRecycling mentation of a car pool system, designation of a car-free day, and shuttle bus operation between company buildings. 2012 314.7 100.1 178.8 In accordance with the government’s “Guidelines for the Rationalization of Energy Use in Public Organizations,” LH has adopted a firmwide commitment to energy best practices. We maintain the optimal indoor temperature, limiting the 2013 293.9 89.1 169.8 operating time of cooling and heating as well as ventilation systems. We also turn office lights off during lunch hours 2014 79.1 0 45.8 and use LED lights and energy-efficient office devices to make energy saving as part of everyday life. Wastewater and Harmful Substance Management The Super Energy-Efficient New LH Office LH manages and treats harmful substances strictly in accordance with relevant regulations. Sewage from LH headThe LH’s new office in Jeonju, Jeollabuk-do employs cutting-edge energy saving technology. The winner of the Minquarters and local branches is processed at the local sewage treatment plants. istry of Land, Infrastructure, and Transport Super Energy-Saving Architectural Model Project Awards, the LH Jeonju Office building is designed to use the minimum energy through the use of energy-efficient building materials, such as high-performance insulation materials, Low-E triple pane windows, a green roof, LED lights, and other equipment Species Diversity Management through passive design. This is expected to be Korea’s first architectural structure with a total building area of 100,000 LH manages ecological and species diversity data, including environmental preservation areas and green rating, by square meters or bigger that can save 149.5kWh/㎡ of energy consumption annually. LH plans to build a childcare utilizing a spatial database to minimize the environmental impact of land and housing development projects. We center next to the office as an energy-neutral building. This new LH office in Jeonju consumes 150kwh/㎡ of energy utilize this data for species diversity protection through various activities, such as research on endangered species and annually, which amounts to roughly one third of the energy consumption of ordinary buildings, or 500kwh/㎡, and preservation and designation of habitats. cuts energy consumption by over 50 percent more than energy-efficiency grade-1 buildings. The new office is also equipped with water-saving plumbing fixtures and a water recycling system, as well as water resources saving technology, that enable us to use rain and heavy water for various purposes, such as landscaping irrigation, toilet flushing, and cleaning. 66 67 Eco-friendly Creation of Eco-friendly Towns LH Sustainability Report 2015 LH Sustainability Overview LH Sustainability Issues Urban Appendix Development Creation of Green Towns Response to Climate Change in Town Development and the Construction Industry As developing towns and constructing and supplying housing have a great impact on the environment, LH takes preemptive step to address the issue. We have built an efficient water-cycle system in response to climate change in the process of carrying out diverse projects, taking the lead in constructing green towns with ecosystem under consideration for the preservation of the natural environment. We aims to create green towns equipped with eco-friendly architectural structures and renewable energy facilities. We also make a great effort to minimize waste throughout the whole process from housing design to construction to operation to redevelopment. We plan to undertake various projects with the environment under consideration by applying eco-friendly technology and efficiently using energy sources resulting in greenhouse gas emissions reduction and effective responses to climate change. Issues 11 Application of Low Impact Development As urbanization and consequent change in patterns of land use cause diverse environmental problems, such as flood > Materiality > Approach and ground subsidence, LH makes the best of low impact development in creating eco-friendly green towns with the The reduction of greenhouse gas emissions and air pollution and the Strategic •To create eco-friendly, future-oriented green cities future of the environment and quality of life under consideration. Low impact development refers to a land planning Goal improvement of energy efficiency have come to the fore as critical for a technology that minimizes the impact of development on the natural water-cycle system through effective manageRelevant ment of stormwater runoff. We aim to establish a healthy water-cycle system by reinforcing flood and water purificabusiness, a nation, and further, the whole world. •New Town Project Office and Land Development Office Department In order for a nation to sharpen its competitive edge, the development of tion functions and creating natural drainage conditions by increasing the infiltration of rainfall effluent. In 2014, we Strategic •‌Eco-friendly green city development with future demand green technology and green industries are critical for as new growth engines applied low impact development technique to the housing construction in Tangjeong in Asan and the design of the Task and quality of life under consideration that maintain balance between economic growth and the environment. housing in Godeok in Pyeongtaek on a trial basis to create eco-friendly towns by reducing stormwater effluent and •‌Internal performance evaluation, internal and external LH strives to fulfill low carbon land development, spatial creation, and a green Assessment pollutant discharge while increasing underground water through rainwater infiltration and reducing thermal island assurance by outside experts. transportation system for the improvement of land competitiveness. effect. •‌Business Promotion Inspection Meeting, Technology Fair Feedback (on a regular basis) Collective Energy Project LH engages in collective energy projects within industrial complexes, through which it provides customers with heat and electricity generated from cogeneration plants, heat boilers, and resource retrieval facilities. LH carries out the collective energy projects, which are designed to collectively supply heat and energy generated from energy facilities such as cogeneration plants, heat boilers, and resource retrieval facilities to users in residential and commercial districts. We undertook collective energy projects in the Southwest district in Daejeon and the Baebang district in Asan, contributing to the national energy and electricity supply strategy through substantial energy conservation and peak load reduction. In addition, we strive to protect the ozone layer by using pollution-free refrigStrategy Achievement Future Plan erant for this system and improve air quality by utilizing clean fuel and LNG, operating cutting-edge pollution prevention facilities, and reducing fuel consumption. LH aims to create a human-centered urban environ• Green transportation system established in DongIncrease in the use of renewable energy and LED ment through eco-friendly and safe development tan 2 in Hwaseong lights Effect of Collective Energy Projects and supply of cities. In order to enhance value by • ‌Energy-saving technology applied to school Green Green energy to be used each year developing land and cities in an eco-friendly way, LH facilities, saving 11.8 percent of total heating energy energy 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 After builds low-carbon green cities, minimizing greenneed and 30 percent of energy on average, source 2020 house gas emissions and energy consumption. • Use of renewable energy increased Renewable 15% 18% 21% 24% 27% 30% energy • Use of eco-friendly recycled materials increased LED light 60% 60% 100% 100% 100% 100% Large-scale Reduction of Pleasant Contribution to Contribution Less reliance energy greenhouse gas residential nation electricity to peak load on oil conservation emissions environment supply strategy reduction in the summer 68 69 Creation of Eco-friendly Towns LH Sustainability Report 2015 LH Sustainability Overview LH Sustainability Issues Appendix Appendix Creation of a “Bike Model City” for a Green Transportation System LH established a 198km-long bike trail, the longest of its kind in new towns in Korea, in the Dontan 2 district in Hwaseong and paved it with an innovative material ideal for bike trails. We created a bike trail network consisting of four types of roads, including intercity road, artery road, local distribution road, and feeder road. In July 2014, we inThird-party Assurance Report 70 stalled the trail on a trial basis and are now expanding it firmwide. GRI G4, ISO 26000 Index 72 Awards / Memberships 78 THE Green Story Sustainable Management Initiatives 79 The Green, an environmentally-friendly architecture and future-oriented housing construction technology learning Rooftop green power plant center, serves as a PR room for Bogeumjari Housing and green growth policy and, at the same time, a site for hands-on experience of green technology in everyday life. The rooftop of the center, an “environmentally-friendly rooftop ecological park,” features solar and other renewable energy facilities with the “nature in convergence with green technology” as the theme. We plan to develop models for energy-efficient green model apartment complexes in new towns and quantify carbon emission quantity of each green factor. We also aim to create eco-friendly spaces in conjunction with natural environment for humans in perfect harmony with nature in an urban environment. LH practices green management by creating the Dongtan 2 district in Hwaseong as a new town with zero fossil fuels, the Geomdan district in Incheon as an energy self-sufficient town, and the Tangjeong district in Asan sd a new-concept residential area. Children in Ecological Park Efficient Use of Resources and Energy Increase in the Use of Renewable Energy Eco-friendly Housing with renewable In an effort to build eco-friendly energy-efficient towns, LH has carried out a project for the supply of diverse types energy system of renewable energy since 2006 and installed solar energy generators, fuel cells, and small wind power facilities in No. of houses (Unit: units) 107,311 rental housing units in 150 districts across the nation by 2014, contributing to saving power consumption. Also, we increased the use of solar energy and other renewable energy in environment plant facilities to improve 30,801 energy efficiency and, ultimately, cut social costs. We installed renewable energy utilization system in three districts, including Dongtan 2 district in Hwaseong for food waste treatment and renewable energy facilities in 26 places in18,120 cluding schools in the same district. Also, we used LED lights in 28 districts including Misa in Hanam for energy. 2,439 2,439 Application of Energy-Efficient Technological Elements to School Facilities LH analyzed energy consumption patterns in school facilities and drew up ways to apply energy-saving technological 2012 2013 2014 elements. In 2014, we installed windows, cooling and heating systems, automatic standby power shutdown system, * 107,311 housing units in 150 districts(cumulative) and ceiling windows for light and ventilation in newly built school facilities, succeeding in cutting energy consumption by 30 percent. As the energy used in the cafeteria accounts for 34 percent of the total energy consumption, we are planning to use solar energy for hot water in the kitchen on a trial basis. We are also reviewing the application of renewable energy to the heating and cooling systems, geothermal energy, solar energy panel inclination adjustment system, and the like. Recycling of Eco-friendly Recycled Materials LH developed waste recycling technology by forming a public-private joint partnership for the economic treatment of waste in landfill discovered in its worksites, recycling the waste by investing only one third of the expenses for waste incineration. In 2014, LH cut roughly 300,000 tons of combustible waste buried in the housing development district in Myeongji in Busan and developed the technology of recycling the combustible waste into nine tons of solid fuel jointly with private institutions. 70 71 Third Party’s Assurance Statement To the Readers of 2015 LH Sustainability Report: Our conclusion Based on the results we have obtained from material reviews and interviews, we had several discussions with LH on the revision of the Report. We reviewed the Report’s Foreword final version in order to confirm that our recommendations for improvement and our revisions have been reflected. When reviewing the results of the assurance, the Korea Management Association Registration and Assessments (KMAR) has been requested by of Korea Land & Housing Corporation (hereinafter referred to as ‘LH ’) to assurance team could not find any inappropriate contents in the Report to the compliance with the principles stipulated below. Nothing has come to our attention that verify the contents of its Sustainability Report 2015 (the Report). LH is responsible for the collection and presentation of information included in the Report. Our responsicauses us to believe that the data and information included in the verification scope are not presented appropriately. bility is to carry out assurance engagement on specific data and information in the assurance scope stipulated below. Inclusivity Inclusivity is the participation of stakeholders in developing and achieving an accountable and strategic response to sustainability. Scope and standard •‌‌LH is developing and maintaining stakeholder communication channels in various forms and levels in order to make a commitment to be responsible for the stakeLH describes its efforts and achievements of the sustainability activities in the Report. KMAR performed a Type 2, moderate level of assurance using AA1000AS (2008) as holders. The assurance team could not find any critical stakeholder group left out during this procedure. an assurance standard. We evaluated the adherence to Principles of Inclusivity, Materiality and Responsiveness, and the reliability of the selected GRI G4 indices as below, where professional judgment of the practitioner of KMAR’s assurance team was exercised as materiality criteria. Materiality Materiality is determining the relevance and significance of an issue to an organization and its stakeholders. A material issue is an issue that will influence the decisions, The team checked whether the Report has been prepared in accordance with the ‘Core Option’ of GRI G4 which covers the followings. actions, and performance of an organization or its stakeholders. • Reporting Principles ‌LH is determining the materiality of issues found out through stakeholder communication channels through its own materiality evaluation process, and the assur• General Standard Disclosures ance team could not find any critical issues left out in this process. • Specific Standard Disclosures Generic DMA of each of following material aspects Responsiveness Economic Performance : G4-EC1, G4-EC2, G4-EC3 ‌Occupational Health and Safety : G4-LA5, G4-LA6, Assessment : G4-HR9 Responsiveness is an organization’s response to stakeholder issues that affect its sustainability performance and is realized through decisions, actions, and performance, Market Presence : G4-EC5 G4-LA7, G4-LA8 ‌Supplier Human Rights Assessment : G4-HR10, G4as well as communication with stakeholders. Indirect Economic Performance : G4-EC7, G4-EC8 Training and Education : ‌G4-LA9, G4-LA10, G4-LA11 HR11 The assurance team could not find any evidence that LH’s counter measures to critical stakeholder issues were inappropriately recorded in the Report. Material : G4-EN1, G4-EN2 Diversity and Equal Opportunity : G4-LA12 Human Rights Grievance Mechanisms : G4-HR12 Energy : G4-EN3, G4-EN4, G4-EN5, G4-EN6, G4-EN7 ‌Equal Remuneration for Women and Men : G4Local Communities : G4-SO1, G4-SO2 We could not find any evidence the Report was not prepared in accordance with the ‘Core Option’ of GRI G4. Water: G4-EN8, G4-EN10 LA13 Anti-corruption : G4-SO3, G4-SO4, G4-SO5 Biodiversity : G4-EN11, G4-EN12: G4-EN13 ‌Supplier Assessment for Labor Practices : Compliance : G4-SO8 Recommendation for improvement Emissions : G4-EN15, G4-EN16, G4-EN18, G4-EN19 G4-LA14, G4-LA15 ‌Supplier Assessment for Impacts on Society : G4Effluents and Waste : G4-EN23, G4-EN26 Labor Practices Grievance Mechanisms : G4-LA16 SO10 We hope the Report be actively used as a tool for communication with stakeholders and recommend the following for continuous improvements of the Report. Products and Services : G4-EN27 Non-discrimination : G4-HR3 ‌Grievance Mechanisms for Impacts on Society : G4Transport : G4-EN30 ‌Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining : SO11 • The company needs to set up integrated management system and feedback process in regarding to sustainability management-related performance indicators. Overall : G4-EN31 G4-HR4 Customer Health and Safety: G4-PR1 • The company needs to report quantitative performance indices in regarding to sustainable management-related activities. Employment : G4-LA1, G4-LA2, G4-LA3 Child Labor : G4-HR5 ‌Product and Service labeling: G4-PR3, G4-PR4, G4Labor/Management Relations : G4-LA4 Forced or Compulsory labor : G4-HR6 PR5 Our independence Indigenous Rights : G4-HR8 Customer Privacy: G4-PR8 With the exception of providing third party assurance services, KMAR is not involved in any other LH business operations that are aimed at making profit in order to avoid any conflicts of interest and to maintain independence. The data and information related to the boundary outside of LH such as suppliers, contractors, etc. are not covered by our assurance engagement Our approach In order to verify the contents of the Report within an agreed scope of assurance in accordance with the assurance standard, KMAR’s assurance team has carried out an assurance engagement as follows: June, 2nd, 2015 CEO Ki Ho Park •‌ Reviewed sustainability related data and reporting process • Reviewed Internal materials • Interviewed people in charge of preparing the Report 72 73 GRI G4, ISO 26000 Application Level General Standard Disclosure ● Reported ◐ Partially Reported ○ Not Reported ◎ N/A ● Reported ◐ Partially Reported ○ Not Reported ◎ N/A Fulfillment Fulfillment GRI Index G4 Contents ISO 26000 Core Theme and Issue Page Remark GRI Index G4 Contents ISO 26000 Core Theme and Issue Page Remark Status Status Strategy and Analysis Governance A statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization about the relevance of Respect for international The governance structure of the organization, including committees of the highest governance body, G4-1 ● 4~5 G4-34 ● 13 sustainability to the organization and the organization’s strategy for addressing sustainability code of conduct / any committees responsible for decision-making on economic, environmental, and social impacts 4.7 / 6.2 / Organizational The process for delegating authority for economic, environmental and social topics from the highest 7.4.2 governance / Setting goals G4-35 ● 13 ● governance body to senior executives and other employees G4-2 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities 4~5 of an organization for social Reporting about whether the organization has appointed an executive-level position or positions with responsibility G4-36 responsibility for economic, environmental and social topics, and whether post holders report directly ◐ 13 Organizational Profile to the highest governance body G4-4 Name of the organization ● 10 Report on processes for consultation between stakeholders and the highest governance body on G4-37 ○ G4-4 Primary brands, products, and services ● 10~11 economic, environmental and social topics ● G4-38 The composition of the highest governance body and its committees ● 13 G4-5 Location of the organization’s headquarters 10 The number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries where either the G4-39 Report on whether the chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer ● 13 G4-6 organization has significant operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability topics Fundamental principle and ● 10 The nomination and selection processes for the highest governance body and its committees and the covered in the report rights of labor / criteria used for nominating and selecting highest governance body members, including G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form Labor practice(overview, ● 10 • Whether and how diversity is concerned principles, and G4-40 • Whether and how independence is considered ● 13 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of customers and G4-8 6.3.10 / considerations) / ● 10~11 • ‌Whether and how expertise and experience relating to economic, environmental and social topics are beneficiaries) 6.4.16.4.2 / employment and labor considered G4-9 Scale of the organization 6.4.3 / 6.4.4 / relation / working conditions ● 10~12 • Whether how stakeholders (including shareholders) are involved G4-10 The number of employees 6.4.5 / and social protection / ● 41 Process for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided and managed. 6.8.5 / 7.8 social dialogue / • Report on whether conflicts of interest are disclosed to stakeholders, including, as minimum: G4-11 The percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining agreements ● 46 job creation and skill • Cross-board membership G4-12 The organization’s supply chain development / ● 52~53 G4-41 ● 13 • Cross-shareholding with suppliers and other stakeholders G4-13 Any significant changes during the reporting period voluntary initiative for ● 10 • Existence of controlling shareholders social responsibility • Related party disclosures G4-14 Statement about whether the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the organization ● 13, 20~21 The highest governance body’s and senior executives’ roles in the development, approval, and updating Organization governance / A list of externally developed economic, environmental and social charters, principles, or other initiatives Establishment of G4-15 ● 79 G4-42 of the organization’s purpose, value or mission statements, strategies, policies, and goals related to ◐ 13 to which the organization subscribes or which it endorses 6.2 / 7.4.3 / organizational governance economic, environmental and social impacts Memberships of associations (such as industry associations) and national or international advocacy 7.7.5 and system for social G4-16 ● 78 The measures taken to develop and enhance the highest governance body’s collective knowledge of organizations G4-43 responsibility ○ economic, environmental and social topics Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries performance improvement A. The process for evaluation of the highest governance body’s performance with respect to A. The organization’s consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents. governance of economic, environmental and social topics G4-17 B. Any ‌ entity included in the organization’s consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents ● 4 G4-44 B. Actions taken in response to evaluation of the highest governance body’s performance with respect ◐ 13 but not covered by the report. to governance of economic, environmental and social topics, including, as a minimum changes in A. The proves for defining the report content and the Aspect Boundaries membership and organizational practice G4-18 B. Explanation ‌ of how the organization has implemented the Reporting Principles for Defining Report ● 18~19 A. The highest governance body’s role in the identification and management of economic, Content environmental and social impacts, risks, and opportunities Awareness of social G4-45 ○ G4-19 All the material aspects identified in the process for defining report content responsibility / ● 18~19 B. Report on whether stakeholder consultation is used to support the highest governance body’s The Aspect Boundary within the organization Relation and decision on ● identification and management of economic, environmental and social impacts, risks, and opportunities G4-20 18~19 • ‌‌Reporting if the Aspect is not material for all entities within the organization 5.2 / 7.3.2 / materiality about core Report on the highest governance body’s role in reviewing the effectiveness of the organization’s risk G4-46 ◐ 13 A The list of the entities or groups of entities included in G4-17 for which the Aspect is not material or, 7.3.3 / 7.3.4 themes and issues of management processes for economic, environmental and social topics G4-21 B. The list of entities or groups of entities included in G4-17 for which the Aspect is material organizations / influence of ● 18~19 The frequency of the highest governance body’s review of economic, environmental and social an organization / priority G4-47 ○ • Any specific limitation regarding the Aspect Boundary within the organization impacts, risks, and opportunities setting for handling issues About The highest committee or position that formally reviews and approves the organization’s sustainability The effect of any restatements of information provided in previous reports and the reasons for such G4-48 ○ G4-22 ● This report and ensures that all material Aspects are covered restatements Report G4-49 The process for communicating critical concerns to the highest governance body ○ About The nature and total number of critical concerns that were communicated to the highest governance G4-23 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the Scope and Aspect Boundaries ● This G4-50 ◐ 13 body Report A. Remuneration policies for the highest governance body and senior executives for the types of Stakeholder Engagement remuneration G4-51 ● 13 G4-24 A list of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization ● 16 B. Report on how performance criteria in the remuneration policy relate to the highest governance G4-25 The basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage ● 16 body’s and senior executives’ economic, environmental and social objectives Stakeholder engagement The process for determining remuneration. Report on whether remuneration consultants are involved G4-26 The organization’s approach to stakeholder engagement (by type and by stakeholder group) 5.3 ● 16 G4-52 ● 13 and identification in determining remuneration and whether they are independent of management Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and the G4-27 ● 16~17 Ethics and Integrity organization’s response to those key topics and concerns The organization’s values, principles, standards and norms of behavior such as codes of conduct and G4-56 ● 37~39 codes of ethics The internal and external mechanisms for seeking advice on ethical and lawful behavior, and matters Ethical behavior / G4-57 4.4 / 6.6.3 ● 37~39 related to organizational integrity, such as helplines or advice lines anti-corruption The internal and external mechanisms for reporting concerns about unethical or unlawful behavior, G4-58 ● 37~39 and matters related to organizational integrity 74 75 GRI G4, ISO 26000 Application Level Category: Economic ● Reported ◐ Partially Reported ○ Not Reported ◎ N/A ● Reported ◐ Partially Reported ○ Not Reported ◎ N/A Fulfillment Fulfillment GRI Index G4 Contents ISO 26000 Core Theme and Issue Page Remark GRI Index G4 Contents ISO 26000 Core Theme and Issue Page Remark Status Status Report on the direct economic value generated and distributed (EVG&D) Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected on an actual basis including the basic components for the organization’s G4-EN11 ● 64 areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas global operationsDirect economic value generated (revenues) Economic participation and contribution to local ● Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on G4-EC1 value distributed (operating costs and employee wages and benefits) 6.8.16.8.2 / 12 communities (summary, principle and G4-EN12 biodiversity in protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside Conservation of nature, biodiversity and ◐ 64 Payments to government (by country) Community investmentEconomic 6.8.3 / 6.8.7 / Biodiversity 6.5.6 Economic considerations) / participation in local protected areas restoration of natural habitats value retained (calculated as Direct economic value generated less 6.8.9 Performance economic value distributed) communities, social investment G4-EN13 Habitats protected or restored ◐ 64 Risks and opportunities posed by climate change that have the potential 62~63, Total number of IUCN list species and national conservation list species G4-EC2 ● G4-EN14 ○ to generate substantive changes in operations 66~67 with habitats in areas affected by operations, by level of extinction risk Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan obligations where the G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (SCOPE 1) ● 65 G4-EC3 6.8.7 Wealth and income creation ● 42 plan’s liabilities are met by the organization’s general resources G4-EN16 Indirect greenhouse gas (SCOPE 2) ● 65 Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local Discriminated and vulnerable groups/ G4-EC5 ● 41 ○ minimum wage at significant locations of operation fundamental principle and rights of G4-EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas(GHG) emissions (SCOPE 3) 6.3.7 / 6.3.10 / Market labor/ employment and labor relation/ ● 6.4.3 / 6.4.4 / G4-EN18 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity 65 Presence Proportion of senior management hired from the local community at working conditions and social protection G4-EC6 6.8.1-6.8.2 ○ significant locations of operation / participation in local communities G4-EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions ● 65 (summary, principle and considerations) 6.5.3, Anti-pollution, relief and application of Emissions Wastewater is 6.5.5 climate change Economic, social and cultural rights/ purified by urban 6.3.9 / participation and contribution to local sewage treatment Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services 31, 33~36, G4-EC7 6.8.1-6.8.2 / communities (summary, principle and ● G4-EN20 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) ○ infrastructure supported 60 6.8.7 / 6.8.9 considerations) / creation of wealth and and is not directly income / social investment discharged into nature. Indirect Economic, social and cultural rights / Economic promotion of social responsibility in G4-EN21 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions ○ Impacts value chain / respect for property right / G4-EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method ● 64~65, 68 6.3.9 / 6.6.6 / approach to essential services / 28~31, G4-EC8 Significant indirect economic impacts 6.6.7 / 6.7.8 / participation and contribution to local ● 50~51, G4-EN24 Total number and volume of significant spills ○ 6.8.1-6.8.2 communities (summary, principle and 59~60 Sustainable use of resources, conservaconsiderations) / job creation and Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed 6.5.3, 6.5.4, Effluents and G4-EN25 hazardous under the terms of the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII, tion of nature, biodiversity and natural ○ development of functions / creation of 6.5.6, 6.6.6. Waste and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally habitats Value chain Promotion of social wealth and income / social investment 6.7.5 responsibility, sustainable consumption Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies and G4-EN26 related habitats significantly affected by the organization’s discharges of ◐ 64 water and runoff Extent of impact mitigation of environmental impacts of products and G4-EN27 ● 66~68 Category: Environmental Products and Services services 6.5.4, 6.7.5 Sustainable use of resources, sustainable consumption Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are G4-EN28 ○ reclaimed by category Fulfillment GRI Index G4 Contents ISO 26000 Core Theme and Issue Page Remark Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary No violation Status Compliance G4-EN29 6.5.4, 6.6.6 ◎ sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations committed G4-EN1 Materials used by weight or volume ◐ 65 Material 6.5.4 Sustainable use of resources Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other Sustainable use of resources, value chain, G4-EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials ◐ 65 Transport G4-EN30 goods and materials for the organization’s operations, and transporting promotion of social responsibility ● 64~65 members of the workforce G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organization ● 64~65 Overall G4-EN31 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type ● 66~68 G4-EN4 Energy consumption outside of the organization ● 64~65 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using environmental Energy G4-EN5 Energy intensity ratio 6.5.4 Sustainable use of resources ◐ 64~65 Supplier EnG4-EN32 ◐ 54 criteria vironmental G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption ◐ 64~65 Significant act and potential negative environmental impacts in the Assessment G4-EN33 ● 54 ● supply chain and actions taken G4-EN7 Reductions in energy requirements of products and services 65~68 EnvironmenG4-EN8 Total water withdrawal by source ● 65 Number of grievances about environmental impacts filed, addressed and tal Grievance G4-EN34 resolved through formal grievance mechanisms Urban Mechanisms infrastructure is used for water and Water G4-EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water 6.5.4 Sustainable use of resources ○ there is no LH office that affects water sources. G4-EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused ● 65 76 77 GRI G4, ISO 26000 Application Level Category: Social ● Reported ◐ Partially Reported ○ Not Reported ◎ N/A ● Reported ◐ Partially Reported ○ Not Reported ◎ N/A Fulfillment Fulfillment GRI Index G4 Contents ISO 26000 Core Theme and Issue Page Remark GRI Index G4 Contents ISO 26000 Core Theme and Issue Page Remark Status Status Sub-Category : Labor Practice and Decent Work Total number and percentage of operations that have been subject to Assessment G4-HR9 ◐ 44 Total number and rates of new employee hires and employee turnover by human rights reviews or impact assessments G4-LA1 6.4.3 Employment and employment relations ● 41 age group, gender, and region Supplier Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using human rights G4-HR10 ● 54 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to Labor conditions and social protection / Human criteria Employment G4-LA2 6.4.4 / 6.8.7 ● 44~45 Rights temporary or part-time employees, by significant locations of operation wealth and income creation Significant actual and potential negative human rights impacts in the G4-HR11 ● 53~55 Assessment supply chain and actions taken G4-LA3 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender 6.4.4 Labor conditions and social protection ● 45 Human Labor/ Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes (including Employment and employment relations / Rights Number of grievances about human rights impacts filed, addressed, and management G4-LA4 6.4.3 / 6.4.5 ● 46 G4-HR12 ● 45 whether these are specified in collective agreements) social dialogue Grievance resolved through formal grievance mechanisms Reltions Mechanisms Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint managementSub-Category: Society G4-LA5 worker health and safety committees that help monitor and advise on ● 43 occupational health and safety programs Percentage of operations with implemented local community G4-SO1 ◐ 57~58, 61 Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and Local engagement, impact assessments, and development programs Occupational G4-LA6 absenteeism, and total number of work-related fatalities, by region and by ● 43 Communities Operations with significant actual and potential negative impacts on local Health and G4-SO2 ◐ 50~51 gender communities Safety Workers with high incidence or high risk of diseases related to their Total number and percentage of operations assessed for risks related to G4-LA7 ● 43, 45 G4-SO3 ● 37~39 occupation corruption and the significant risks identified AntiHealth and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trading corruption G4-SO4 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and procedures ● 37~39 G4-LA8 ● 43 unions ● G4-SO5 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken 37~39 Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and by Human resources development and G4-LA9 6.4.7 ● 42 As a public employee category training at workplaces organization, LH Public Policy G4-SO6 Total value of political contributions by country and recipient/beneficiary ◎ Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the Human resources development and is not allowed for Training and G4-LA10 continued employability of employees and assist them in managing ca6.4.7 / 6.8.5 training at workplaces / job creation and ● 42 lobbying by law.. Education reer endings skills development AntiPercentage of employees receiving regular performance and career Human resources development and Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and ● competitive G4-SO7 ◎ N/A G4-LA11 6.4.7 42 monopoly practices and their outcomes development reviews, by gender and by employee category training at workplaces Behavior Decision-making process and structure/ Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary Diversity Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per Compliance G4-SO8 ● 39 6.2.3 / 6.3.7 / discrimination and vulnerable groups/ sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations and Equal G4-LA12 employee category according to gender, age group, minority group ● 13, 41 6.3.10 / 6.4.3 basic principles and rights at work/emOpportunity membership, and other indicators of diversity Supplier Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using criteria for impacts ployment and employment relations G4-SO9 ● 53~54 Assessment on society Equal RemuDiscrimination and vulnerable groups for Impacts Significant actual and potential negative impacts on society in the supply neration for Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men by employee 6.3.7 / 6.3.10/ /basic principles and rights at work/ G4-SO10 ◐ 53~55 G4-LA13 ● 41 on Society chain and actions taken Women and category, by significant locations of operation 6.4.3 / 6.4.4 employment and employment relations/ Men labor conditions and social protection Grievance Mechanisms Number of grievances about impacts on society filed, addressed, and Supplier Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using labor practices G4-SO11 ◐ 39, 49, 53 G4-LA14 ● 53 for Impacts resolved through formal grievance mechanisms Assessment criteria on Society for Labor Significant actual and potential negative impacts for labor practices in the G4-LA15 ◐ 53~55 Sub-Category: Product Responsibility Practices supply chain and actions taken Percentage of significant product and service categories for which health Employment G4-PR1 ● 50~51 Number of grievances about labor practice filed, addressed, and resolved Customer and safety impacts are assessed for improvement (sex, new, G4-LA16 6.3.6 Grievance management ◐ 53 through formal grievance mechanisms Health and Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and temporary) Safety G4-PR2 voluntary codes concerning the health and safety impacts of products ◎ N/A Sub-Category: Human Rights and services during their life cycles, by type of outcomes NonType of product and service information required by the organization’s discriminaG4-HR3 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken ● 45 procedures for product and service information and labeling, and tion G4-PR3 ● 51 percentage of significant product and service categories subject to such Freedom of Product information requirements Association Operations and suppliers identified in which the right to exercise freedom and Service G4-PR4 ● 51 and G4-HR4 of association and collective bargaining may be violated or at significant ● 46 Labeling Collective risk, and measures taken to support these rights Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and Bargaining G4-PR5 voluntary codes concerning product and service information and labeling, ● 47~48 by type of outcomes Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents Child Labor G4-HR5 of child labor, and measures taken to contribute to the effective abolition ● 44 G4-PR6 Sale of banned or disputed products ● 50~51 Marketing of child labor Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and CommunicaForced or Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents tions G4-PR7 voluntary codes concerning marketing communications (including ◎ N/A Compulsory G4-HR6 of forced or compulsory labor, and measures to contribute to the ● 44 advertising, promotion, and sponsorship, by type of outcomes) Labor elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor Customer Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer G4-PR8 ● 48 Security Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization’s human Privacy privacy and losses of customer data G4-HR7 ○ Practices rights policies or procedures that are relevant to operations Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and Compliance G4-PR9 ◎ N/A Indigenous Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services G4-HR8 ● 59~60 Rights peoples and actions taken 78 79 Awards/Memberships Sustainable Management Initiative Awards in 2014 UNGC Membership and Support As a member of the UN Global Compact since June 2014, LH reports its fulfillment of the Global Compact’s ten principles. Date Description 2014. 01 Selected by TV Chosun as ‘The Korea’s influential CEO in 2014’ in corporate social responsibility sector 2014. 03 Awarded in the 1st Gyeonggi-do City Kitchen Garden Contest hosted by Gyeonggi Green & Agriculture Promotion Foundation Principle Practices by LH Human Rights 2014. 05 “LH’s deregulation” selected as an exemplary case in Public Institutions Workshop Principle 1 Businesses shall support and respect internationally declared human rights. Creation and operation of basic principle on Cited for support for distribution of new technology product in the “2014 New Technology Application Contest” organized by Ministry of Trade, 2014. 11 human rights protection (ethics charter) Industry and Energy (MOTIE) and Korean Agency for Technology and Standards (KATS) Principle 2 Businesses shall make utmost efforts to avoid involvement in human rights violations. 2014. 12 Selected as the most outstanding public corporation in the assessment of public corporations’ preparation for the future Rule of Labor Principle 3 ‌Businesses shall support freedom of association and endorse practical application of the right for Fostering communication channel between 2014. 12 ‘Public Rental Housing REIT’ was awarded in the Best Practice Context hosted by Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, and Transport collective bargaining. labor and the management Principle 4 Businesses shall exclude all kinds of forced labor. Labor and management collaboration program Membership Principle 5 Businesses shall abolish child labor efficiently, Expansion of education for labor and management Principle 6 Businesses shall eliminate discrimination in employment and business. Observation of Labor Standards Act and employment rules Korean Network on Anti-Corruption and Environment UN Global Compact Korean Society of Civil Engineers Architectural Institute of Korea Transparancy Principle 7 Businesses shall support preventive approach to environmental issues. Establishment of a system to reduce greenhouse gas emission Korea Institute of Ecological Architecture and The Korean Institute of Illumination and Korea Planners Association Korean Association for Housing Policy Studies Principle 8 Businesses shall perform measures to promote environmental accountability. Purchase of ‘Green Products’ Environment Electrical Installation Engineers Principle 9 Businesses shall promote development and dissemination of eco-friendly technology. Building eco-friendly green cities The Korean Institute of The Korean Housing Association Korea Construction Promotion Association Urban Design Institute of Korea Landscape Architecture Anti-corruption The Society of Air-conditioning and Creation and operation of Ethical Standards and Korea Industrial Technology Association Korean Society of Transportation Korea Concrete Institute Principle 10 Businesses shall be opposed to all kinds of corruptions including illegal acquisitions and bribes. Refrigerating Engineers of Korea strengthened internal control system The Korean Society for Noise and Vibration The Korean Institute of Power Electronics Korea Industrial Safety Association Korea Electric Engineers Association Engineering Korea Energy Engineer Association Korea Personnel Improvement Association Korean Society of Water and Wastewater Korea Fire Safety Association Korean Geotechnical Society Korea Water Resources Association Korean Society of Road Engineers International contractors Association of Korea The Society of Air-conditioning and Architectural Institute of Japan Japan Society of Civil Engineers The Japanese Geotechnical Society Refrigerating Engineers of Korea American Society of Civil Engineers American Concrete Institute American Planning Association Korean Institute of Electrical Installation Engineers www.LH.or.kr 19 Chungui-ro, Jinju, Gyeongsangnam-do, Korea (660-031) TEL 82-55-922-3181
