Sustainability at the core Sustainability Report 2013/2014 www.polymetalinternational.com Overview Environment Employees Communities Economic GRI G4 index Sustainability Contents at the core At Polymetal, our core objective is to create Polymetal at a glance Overview Chairman’s introduction 2 sustainable returns for shareholders while About this report 3 fulfilling our corporate responsibilities Delivering Interview with the Group CEO 4 to society and the environment. sustainable value Polymetal at a glance Where we operate 6 8 Pages 6-7 Our approach to sustainability 10 We strive to meet our commercial goals How we manage sustainability 12 by ensuring our precious metals exploration, Stakeholder engagement How we identify our priorities 16 18 mining and production business processes Environment operate safely and efficiently. In addition, Managing our environmental performance 20 we are equally committed to the long-term Case studies 30 economic development of the regions Employees in which we operate. Investing in our people 32 Case studies 38 Stakeholder Health and safety 40 In this way, we balance our business interests engagement Case studies 46 with the interests of our people, suppliers, A vibrant Communities investors, local communities and other programme Building strong relationships with local communities 48 of activity stakeholders. And it is this balance which Pages 16-17 Case studies 54 ensures the long-term success and Economic sustainability of our operations. Materiality Ensuring economic success and sustainability 56 Case study 59 GRI G4 index Commitment to the GRI G4 reporting GRI G4 General standard disclosures 60 process GRI G4 Specific standard disclosures 63 Pages 18-19 Sustainability Report 2013/2014 Polymetal International plc 1 Overview Environment Employees Communities Economic GRI G4 index Chairman’s introduction About this report Aiming beyond Taking sustainability our obligations reporting to the next level GRI G4-17; G4-18; G4-23 In recent years Polymetal has made significant progress This report is a milestone on our sustainability journey. in its development as a leading precious metals company. Adopting GRI G4 guidelines, it is an expression of our Building on strong operational and financial performance, commitment to transparent and effective reporting processes. we are also emerging as an industry leader in sustainability. Throughout the year we continued to In this way, the expansion of our This report is the fourth summary We have structured this report around In our previous Sustainability Report carry out risk assessments and incident operations means the expansion of of our sustainability performance, our economic, environmental, health and (2011/12) we followed the GRI G3.1 reviews to ensure we successfully social and environmental progress and covering the calendar years 2013 safety, employee and community-focused framework (level B) – but this year address health and safety issues across development. Indeed, for as long as we and 2014. In addition to regular activities. Within this structure we have we are going further and reporting our operations. To promote good safety are delivering sustainable value to those updates on our corporate website, sought to address those issues that are to be ‘In Accordance – Core’ with behaviours among our workforce, we who matter most to our business, we will www.polymetalinternational.com, deemed important by the Board through the GRI G4 guidelines, and with the increased the level of training and the continue to invest in new systems and it is our primary means of communication its risk assessment function, those that Mining and Metals Supplement. use of safety aids and communications, initiatives designed to meet their needs. regarding our sustainability programmes are subject to legal obligation, and those helping to refocus our efforts on keeping and developments. that are most important, or ‘material’, The main focus of the G4 Guidelines our people safe and well. to our stakeholders. is ‘materiality’, which means those The scope of this report covers all ‘Aspects’ or topics are most relevant We firmly believe in ‘doing well by doing of our wholly-owned operating mines GRI G4 to our operations. The method by good’, and during 2013/14 our values and processing sites in Russia and which we have determined our ‘material continued to deliver value to a broad Kazakhstan (Dukat, Omolon, Amursk, This report has been prepared in line with Aspects’ and related focus areas are range of stakeholders. Despite a generally Albazino, Mayskoye, Khakanja, Voro a set of reporting parameters designed described in detail on page 18. challenging year in the natural resources Bobby Godsell and Varvara), our headquarters in to give stakeholders a clear view of our sector worldwide, with persistent low Chairman of the Board of Directors St. Petersburg and our subsidiary sustainability performance. It marks While the measurement indicators we commodities prices and increasing companies. We own and operate our first step towards the adoption of the use are consistent with GRI guidelines, geopolitical tensions, we delivered all of these entities and have direct Global Reporting Initiative’s (GRI’s) G4 some are being reported in this 2013/14 As a business, Polymetal is dispersed Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. a strong financial and operational control over their policies, procedures report for the first time. Some have been across Russia and the CIS. Operating performance. We also delivered a range and performance. included in our previous reports, and complex processes in remote areas with of social and environmental programmes some also relate to third-party suppliers. extreme weather conditions, we have had that went way beyond our regulatory In all cases we have presented the data to create much of our own infrastructure. commitments and obligations. A prime in units consistent with GRI guidelines, For this reason, the development of example is our new memorandum and, where possible, included data for robust management systems is critical of social and economic cooperation 2012, 2013 and 2014. to ensuring we maintain the highest in East Kazakhstan, where we will standards of employee safety, community be providing community support, partnership and environmental educational opportunities and financial stewardship. In 2013/14, we launched aid to the local people in the area a new Group-wide Environmental Our values of our flagship Kyzyl project. Management System to help us address our environmental risks and enhance  Dialogue Ethical conduct Stewardship our overall sustainability performance. We promote stakeholder We expect employees, contractors We work to protect the environment, We also made plans to recruit a Chief dialogue based on openness, and business partners to display maximise the health, safety and Sustainability Officer – a newly created honesty and transparency. the highest standards of ethical wellbeing of employees, and respect position which reflects the importance conduct, with zero tolerance for the rights of all constituents affected we place on sustainable development. Compliance corruption, bribery and fraud. by our operations. We meet all legal obligations at local, national and international levels. Fairness Effectiveness We show fairness, equality We aim to be effective in everything and respect to our employees that we do. and local communities. 2 Sustainability Report 2013/2014 Polymetal International plc Sustainability Report 2013/2014 Polymetal International plc 3 Overview Environment Employees Communities Economic GRI G4 index An interview with the Group Chief Executive Officer Ensuring that we remain firmly focused on building To us, sustainability means pursuing our commercial and operational goals in a way a sustainable future that does not compromise the future wellbeing of other people or the planet that we share.” Within the mining industry, we conduct our business responsibly What are the main sustainability challenges that Polymetal conditions at these operations. Safety remains our number one priority and And finally, in 2015 we have recruited for our newly-created position of Chief and honour our commitments to sustainability. Here, our Group currently faces? we are currently doing all we can to make sure we improve our performance Sustainability Officer. This dedicated sustainability role involves coordinating Chief Executive Officer, Vitaly Nesis, answers questions about We operate complex mine facilities in and achieve zero fatalities across all our sites and facilities. our diverse sustainability initiatives and activities and ensuring better often hostile and remote environments, Polymetal’s sustainability performance in 2013/14. and safety remains a challenge for transparency for investors and other stakeholders. I believe this development, Polymetal. We continually strive to What are the Company’s improve safety management across the along with our new GRI G4 reporting What’s new for Polymetal from Our main sustainability achievements plans for the future? commitments, are clear signs of the included the development and Group and to comply with best practice a sustainability perspective? in this area. However, despite our many When it comes to sustainable progress we are making on our implementation of a Group-wide achievements in 2013/14, I regret to report development, our plans for the future sustainability journey. This report, which covers our Group-wide Environmental Management System, performance in 2013/14, represents a which will help us manage environmental that there were three fatal accidents at our will be driven by our stakeholders and facilities and one workplace fatality at a those issues that are most material I am proud to introduce Polymetal’s milestone on our sustainability journey. risks by focusing on resource and energy contractor’s operations during 2014, and to them. Our adoption of the GRI G4 Sustainability Report which shows It is the second time we have applied efficiency, emissions reduction and an employee was sadly fatally injured in reporting framework has helped us the progress we made in 2013-14. the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) employee engagement. We also sustainability reporting guidelines. continued our positive and highly 2013. I would personally like to extend my to identify these issues, which in turn The first time, in 2011/12, we prepared productive interaction with local heart-felt condolences to the families and will help to shape and inform our our Sustainability Report in line with GRI communities in the regions where we friends of the five men who lost their lives sustainability focus areas. One of the G3.1 (level B); this year, we are adopting operate, including indigenous peoples in these tragic incidents. priorities is a full-scale environmental the most recent version of the GRI in the northern territories. Personal and social impact assessment (ESIA) framework, G4, the main focus of which highlights for me in this area were the We have conducted rigorous of the Kyzyl project which will allow is ‘materiality’ – in other words, those numerous awards we won for our investigations into these events and us to take into account all Vitaly Nesis issues that matter most to our business community engagement programme, have already taken remedial action stakeholders interests. Group Chief Executive Officer and our stakeholders. Compliance with and the letters of thanks we continued to ensure they do not happen again. G4 does not become mandatory until to receive from people living near These investigations show that the lapse Looking ahead, we will continue to focus the end of 2015, so we are making this our production sites. in safety performance was in part due on delivering value to our shareholders transition ahead of schedule. I believe to the increased scope of underground and wider stakeholders while preparing What does ‘sustainability’ mining in complex geotechnical the Company for the next stage of growth. this decision is a sign of our commitment Elsewhere, we developed new internal mean to Polymetal? to continuous improvement and best programmes designed to enhance At Polymetal, we are truly focused on practice, and demonstrates our communication with employees, including delivering value to our shareholders. willingness to engage with clear and a new online training hub. The aim of the However, we have always cared equally accountable reporting practices. hub is to train our people more effectively Awards for excellence about delivering value to our wider in all internal IT processes and systems, Awards Prizes Honours stakeholders – our employees, local What were the major and to explore training opportunities that communities, contractors, business can meet their individual requirements sustainability achievements (see pages 35-36, 39 for more info). During 2013/14, we Mining Excellence Award Sixth place in the ‘Top-10 34 of our employees received partners, government agencies and received numerous in the Mining Project of the Year Best Corporate Communications honorary diplomas, certificates NGOs – and about minimising the for Polymetal in 2013/14? We also, in October 2014, signed a category at MINEX Russia 2014 and Relations in Russia’ by and Miner’s Glory Awards from awards and citations impact of our operations on the natural I am pleased to report that during memorandum of social and economic for the successful commissioning TOP-COMM 2014. various Government Ministries from local groups, NGOs, environment. In this way, sustainability 2013/14, we achieved outstanding cooperation in East Kazakhstan where of the Amursk POX plant First Prize in the Magadan in Russia and Kazakhstan, IMN Groups and local in Russia. including the Ministry of Industry goes to the heart of our business and operational and financial performances we have acquired deposits for a mining Regional Stage of the all-Russian authorities. These include: and Trade, the Ministry of Natural our way of thinking. To us, sustainability despite a challenging market environment project in Kyzyl. These documents set Mining Excellence Award ‘High social efficiency’ contest out the main areas of cooperation within Resources and Environment means pursuing our commercial and in which the price of gold fell significantly. in the Mining Project of the Year for social development and and the Ministry of Energy. operational goals in a way that does not Throughout this period, we expanded a long-term social partnership, which category at MINEX Russia 2013 corporate donations. compromise the future wellbeing of other production, delivered regular dividend will focus in particular on the needs for the successful commissioning First Prize in the first regional people or the planet that we share. of children, families and vulnerable of the Mayskoye mine in Russia. payments to shareholders, and contest ‘Best employers for local people. Best Socially Responsible young professionals mentoring’ Letters of gratitude engaged in numerous mergers and acquisitions. At the same time, sustainable Company of the Year in the in Magadan. development was central to our progress ‘Large-scale enterprises’ We received 70 letters of Our senior managers were category in the national gratitude from local community in all areas, and we successfully competition ‘Paryz’, Kazakhstan. ranked top in the ‘Best balanced our business interests with managers’ lists compiled groups, NGOs, IMN groups and our sustainability commitments. by different agencies. local authorities in the regions where we operate. 4 Sustainability Report 2013/2014 Polymetal International plc Sustainability Report 2013/2014 Polymetal International plc 5 Overview Environment Employees Communities Economic GRI G4 index Polymetal at a glance Delivering sustainable value Key facts 8Mining operations 21.6 Moz 1.43 Moz Ore reserves (GE oz) GE production +12% year-on-year 9,180 Employees 14.6 Moz 1,690 US$m Mineral resources (GE oz) Sales revenue Delivering sustainable value Production chain Our business model is the key to our success Driving operational excellence > > > and, ultimately, enables us to deliver oration Lev xpl Exploration Development Extracting ore Transporting ore sustainable value to in e era We invest heavily in Mines are developed to Drilling and blasting Following extraction, b-bas Inve exploration and evaluation enable our people and activities ensure that we the ore is transported by our stakeholders. ur hu e stin d of potential deposits, the equipment to access can access and extract trucks and ships to our g sys key source of long-term underground and open-pit the maximum proportion central processing hubs. go Commitment organic growth. deposits for extraction. of ore available. to responsible te gin development Fo c u > si n go n Selling bars h ig m hg r a d e a s s ets > We sell gold and silver bars to banks and industries. Processing Applying strong capital discipline Our hub-based processing system > Selling concentrate We sell concentrate enables us to process efficiently to third parties. Maintaining exemplary governance and cost-effectively. Our strategy 2014 sustainability highlights During 2014 we delivered a robust economic We continued to invest in our people’s Production in 2014 (%) performance with good cash generation and wellbeing and development, reinforcing production growth. This helps to ensure that our commitment to being an employer of 01 E  nsure robust operating and 03 M  aintain capital discipline 05 M  aintain high standards of our business is commercially sustainable, choice. However, our health and safety financial performance at our to deliver superior free cash corporate governance and and gives us the financial resources we performance was wholly unsatisfactory in operating mines flow and substantial dividends sustainable development need to continue our operations long 2013/14. As is reported on page 43 of this into the future. report, there were three fatalities across the 02 D  evelop third generation 04 R  emain opportunistic on the Group during the year, and one workplace Throughout the year we continued to fatality at a contractor’s site. We are doing growth projects M&A arena combined with meet our commitments to developing local own exploration efforts everything we can to ensure that these communities in the regions where we tragic incidents are not repeated. operate. We extended the scope of our community programme and by the end Elsewhere we focused on managing of 2014 we had 18 local cooperation our supply chain to ensure our commitments agreements in place, up from 11 in 2010, and beliefs are upheld by our suppliers. We encompassing new territories such as Kyzyl. also continued our policy of commissioning Our key local services to help stimulate local We also rolled out our certified Group-wide competitive Environmental Management System (EMS). economies and supply chains. advantages High-grade assets Proven operating Capital discipline: Pipeline of quality The new EMS will help us monitor our ● Gold 66 track record: strong free cash growth projects environmental performance and manage ● Silver 33 delivering and flow and substantial environmental risks, with a renewed focus ● Copper 1 on resource and energy efficiency, emissions exceeding dividends reduction and employee engagement. expectations 6 Sustainability Report 2013/2014 Polymetal International plc Sustainability Report 2013/2014 Polymetal International plc 7 Overview Environment Employees Communities Economic GRI G4 index Where we operate Setting ourselves apart through maintaining high-quality assets GRI G4-17 GRI G4-17 Map key Omolon hub Hub Voro Mayskoye Transitioning underground Operating mine Sustaining high performance Bringing our newest Pevek Development project Head office and margins mine up to speed 850 Ktpa Kubaka CIP and Merrill-Crowe + City/town 950 Ktpa 850 Ktpa Operating mines Seaport CIP Concentrator Birkachan, Sopka, Tsokol, Dalneye Operating mine 900 Ktpa Mayskoye Development projects Oroch, Burgali HL Key exploration project Operating mine Yolochka Voro Key exploration project North Kaluga Varvara Magadan Dukat hub Semcha Strong operations in Kazakhstan Targeting reliable delivering a stable contribution Khakanja hub Okhotsk resource-to-reserve conversion 4.2 Mtpa Lithuania Latvia + St. Petersburg Focusing on mine-life extension 1.6 Mtpa Kaliningrad + Float + leach 600 Ktpa Dukat concentrator Operating mine Varvara Belarus Merrill-Crowe plant Svetloye 400 Ktpa Key exploration project + Moscow Russia Operating mines Lunnoye Merrill-Crowe plant Khakanja, Avlayakan, Ozerny Tarutin Ukraine Operating mines Development project Dukat, Goltsovoye, Lunnoye, Svetloye Arylakh Development projects + Ekaterinburg Olcha Khabarovsk + Kyzyl project Albazino Key exploration project Perevalny Extending life-of-mine by adding Developing a world-class asset underground reserves + Kostanay Vanino Bakyrchik and Bolshevik deposits 1.6 Mtpa Amursk POX hub 6.7 Moz Concentrator Unique processing facility for refractory concentrates Gold reserves Oskemen + 7.5 g/t Au Georgia Japan 500 tpd Average reserve grade Armenia Kyzyl North Amursk POX plant processing Uzbekistan China Korea concentrates from Albazino Azerbaijan Kazakhstan Mongolia South and Mayskoye Korea Turkmenistan Kyrgyzstan Tajikistan China 8 Sustainability Report 2013/2014 Polymetal International plc Sustainability Report 2013/2014 Polymetal International plc 9 Overview Environment Employees Communities Economic GRI G4 index Our approach to sustainability Building on our commitment to developing a long-term business GRI G4-18; G4-23 GRI G4-18; G4-23 Sustainability is a vital component of our business Standards, codes and compacts Stakeholder engagement and material issues Sustainability risk management strategy. For us, it represents an investment in society Polymetal’s overall approach to In our approach to sustainability, Our approach to sustainability is also underpinned by rigorous risk and the environment, as well as in the long-term future sustainability is guided by the UN Global Compact, to which the Company has we want to address the issues that matter most to our business and to our management policies and procedures. Informed by our interaction with of our Company. been a signatory since 2009. Our strategy is designed to meet the requirements of stakeholders. To this end, we follow the principles of materiality and stakeholder stakeholders, we work to identify, manage and mitigate the sustainability this voluntary international standard and inclusiveness that are set out within risks we face (see page 15 for more ensure compliance with its ten principles the Global Reporting Initiative’s (GRI) information). This process is overseen in the areas of human rights, labour, G4 prioritisation guidelines. We carry out by the Audit and Risk Committee of the environment and anti-corruption. regular stakeholder mapping exercises Board, reflecting the importance we place Our approach to sustainability We are also an active member of the to determine the various stakeholder on sustainability within the Company. is built upon regular consultation UK Global Compact Network Russia. groups on which Polymetal has the with stakeholders, the identification Risk biggest impact (see pages 16-17 for more Focus areas of material issues, rigorous risk assessment The UN Global Compact and our information). Once identified, we then management and the observance corporate values – dialogue, compliance, engage with these stakeholders and Through our stakeholder engagement of international standards and ethical conduct, fairness, stewardship collate all ensuing dialogue; this enables and materiality mapping activities, best practice. and effectiveness – shape the focus of us to understand the issues most material we have been able to identify our core Governance Materiality our more detailed sustainability policies to each group, and to incorporate their sustainability focus areas. The areas we framework and associated management systems. opinions and priorities into our decision identified for 2013/14 are shown below. Stakeholder engagement These polices are defined at Group level making and policy development. and implemented through our head office Central to this process is an in-depth and subsidiary companies. Through materiality analysis, which we conduct ongoing monitoring and auditing, each year to determine the key aspects we ensure that our performance we need to address in our sustainability Sustainability is measured against all relevant programmes and reporting (see management regulatory and internal requirements. pages 18-19 for more information). Economic Environment Employees Health Communities Our sustainability focus areas impact and safety Maintaining positive working relationships with local Further developing our certified environmental government, NGOs and communities by enhancing management system and embedding our partnership agreements and increasing the the system into production operations effectiveness of our investments (see Economic (see Environment section). and Communities sections). Enhancing the rigour and transparency of our Attracting and retaining more high-quality people communications with suppliers, customers and improving the quality and terms of their and partners (see Overview). employment (see Employees section). Sustainable Cost and energy efficiency programmes. Improving our health and safety system through development more sophisticated visualisation, risk management systems and more rigorous monitoring within the Company and with our supplier network (see Employees section). 10 Sustainability Report 2013/2014 Polymetal International plc Sustainability Report 2013/2014 Polymetal International plc 11 Overview Environment Employees Communities Economic GRI G4 index How we manage sustainability Driving sustainability from the top Board The Board defines the business strategy, assesses risks and monitors performance. At Polymetal, sustainability Group CEO Sustainability leadership Board composition Committees of the Board is driven from the top and The Group CEO takes ultimate responsibility for delivering on The Board of Directors has prime responsibility for sustainability leadership The Company fully complies with the UK Code of Corporate Governance, including The Nomination Committee has the responsibility for making is thoroughly and effectively strategy and operating performance. at Polymetal. Group CEO, Vitaly Nesis, is responsible for ensuring that the election and composition of the Board. The Code stipulates that all Board recommendations on the composition of the Board and its committees. Before managed at all levels Company successfully implements and makes necessary changes in this area; Directors are subject to annual re-election and that shareholders have the authority any appointment is made, the Nomination Committee evaluates the balance of skills, of the Company. he and the Board ensure that focus on sustainability is maintained across to remove or appoint individual directors. knowledge, experience, independence and diversity of the Board, and in the light Technical Council the Group. Our Board is comprised of the nonof this evaluation prepares a description The Technical Council agrees executive Chairman, Group CEO and of the role and capabilities required. strategy and tactical implementation To support our Group CEO in his seven non-executive directors, four of across the business. sustainability leadership, a Technical whom are independent. The role of the Directors and chairmen of the Board’s Council meets monthly to monitor the Chairman and non-executive directors committees receive regular updates on Company’s performance against its is to scrutinise the Company’s changes to corporate governance and sustainability priorities and to assess the performance and management, review regulation, as well as any changes within Define and Agree priorities implementation of associated policies. the integrity of financial information the social, economic or environmental review strategy and actions Our heads of departments report and assess internal controls and risk landscape that may impact the Company. Human Resources to the Technical Council, facilitating management processes. Directors’ In the event of an emergency, the Board is The Head of Human dialogue among senior management interests are disclosed annually and the advised immediately by way of electronic Resources defines on a range of sustainability issues, Company Secretary is notified of any communication. Investigations are carried and monitors including employees, community changes to those interests. out, corrective action is taken, and reports employment contracts outreach, health and safety and are then made to the Board at its next and employee Health and Safety environmental management. All current Board Directors were general meeting. performance. The Chief Operating appointed in September 2011 except for Communications Officer sets targets The Board as a whole is responsible Ms Coignard, who joined in July 2014. Each year, the Board undergoes a The PR Director is and is responsible for decision-making on social, economic At the time of this report’s publication, rigorous self-evaluation during which Environment for performance responsible for identifying The Chief Operating and environmental impacts and plays 22% of our Board members are women; it assesses the performance of its and engaging with the in this area. an active role in shaping our strategies three directors represent significant Chairman, committees and each Officer, supported majority of external by our Health, Safety and goals in these areas. Every Board Company shareholders. Full information individual Director. In accordance with stakeholders, including and Environment meeting at which quarterly operational on our Board members can be found the UK Code, every three years this government and regional department, sets targets results are considered starts with in the Governance section of our evaluation process is externally facilitated, authorities, local for maintaining health an overview of health, safety and Annual Report. and the Board commits to undertake communities and NGOs. and safety performance. environmental performance. Additionally, steps designed to enhance its the Board reviews and approves overall performance. our Sustainability Reports prior Operations to their publication. Read more in our Annual Report 2014 Our operating mines and development properties have heads of Operations, Human Resources, Environment and Health and Safety, who implement and monitor corporate systems, supported by Board of Directors specialist public relations and engineering teams. Chairman Independent non-executive Directors Bobby Godsell N Christine Coignard A R N Russel Skirrow A Group CEO Jonathan Best A R Vitaly Nesis Leonard Homeniuk R N Non-executive Directors Risk management Konstantin Yanakov Jean-Pascal Duvieusart Committees The Board and Audit and Risk Committee identify Marina Grönberg A Audit and Risk Committee and document risks; assess, quantify and classify R Remuneration Committee each risk; develop and implement risk management N Nomination Committee strategies and review performance. 12 Sustainability Report 2013/2014 Polymetal International plc Sustainability Report 2013/2014 Polymetal International plc 13 Overview Environment Employees Communities Economic GRI G4 index How we manage sustainability Driving sustainability Our risk management process from the top 01 Identify and document risks 01 02 02 Assess, quantify and classify each risk Risk continued 03 Develop and implement risk mitigation strategies management process 04 Monitor, report and review risk 04 03 Remuneration protection, government and community and assembly contracts and reviews Risk management system relations, competition, data protection decisions in relation to major construction Polymetal’s remuneration policy remains and transparency. It also promotes zero work. The IAD produced 53 reports on Our risk management system supports our strategic goals and is designed to effectively identify, assess and mitigate a key element in providing a clear tolerance of bullying, drug use, conflicts targeted audits in 2013 and 46 reports our sustainability and business risks. The key personnel/teams within this system, and their primary risk management framework to motivate, incentivise and of interest and bribery. All employees in 2014, with recommendations for responsibilities, are as follows: retain our senior management team. must comply with the Code and improvements. During 2013/2014, all of Our remuneration structure is both associated policies; all documents our main operating sites were audited. Board of Directors, Audit and Monitoring and control of risk management efficiency, approving risk management policies and guidelines, straightforward and aligned with the and guidance are available through Risk Committee of the Board reviewing risk management strategy and risk reports, taking responsibility for key risk identification shareholders’ interests. The Company the Company’s information system. In addition to these measures, we have has been fully compliant with the new Group CEO and Identifying risks to the business and associated management operations been running regular training sessions Technical Council remuneration disclosure requirements The UN Global Compact on bribery and corruption since 2011. since their introduction in 2013. These sessions were conducted by our Internal Audit Department Defining and monitoring the risk management process and mitigation tools and actions, preparing Remuneration policy is discussed with Polymetal’s overall approach to internal security team at each of our main risk reports shareholders and put to a vote every sustainability is guided by the UN Global operating sites. For more information on three years, while the remuneration report Compact, to which the Company has our anti-corruption policy and practices, Operational managers Identifying and evaluating everyday risks and reporting them, implementing risk mitigation programmes is voted on annually; the remuneration been a signatory since 2009. Our see page 33. policy and remuneration report received strategy is designed to meet the 99.8% support at the AGM held requirements of this voluntary The Company also aims to ensure that Key sustainability risks in May 2014. international standard and ensure all its activities are adequately controlled. Across our operations we have identified a number of sustainability risks. These include: compliance with its ten principles The system of internal controls is When setting pay levels and bonuses in the areas of human rights, labour, designed to manage and minimise risk, Employees Community Environment Economic for our Group CEO and other senior environment and anti-corruption. and to achieve the Company’s business management, we take corporate and We are also an active member of the objectives while bringing residual risk to an The Company may fail to recruit Our operations may cause The Company’s management The title to mineral rights may be individual performances into account UK Global Compact Network Russia. acceptable level. It can therefore only and retain enough talented people potential harm to local systems may not negate or challenged and the purchase of including, among other things, our health provide reasonable, rather than absolute, to maintain operational integrity communities reduce harmful spillages or land may be opposed locally, and safety performance. These levels The UN Global Compact and our assurance against material misstatement releases into the environment, thereby preventing or curtailing are then reviewed each year and corporate values – dialogue, compliance, which may also harm employees their use by the Company. or loss. The head of IAD reports to the benchmarked externally every three ethical conduct, fairness, stewardship and others living and working Failure to secure such additional Group CEO and, through the Audit and in the vicinity reserves will lead to a long-term years to ensure they are in line with and effectiveness – shape the focus of Risk Committee, to the Board of Directors. reduction in output those of our industry peers and other our more detailed sustainability policies London-listed companies. and associated management systems. These polices are defined at Group level Managing our risks The Company’s health and Community members may The Company may fail to Severe weather and climate safety systems may not protect oppose new mining construction comply with environmental laws conditions may disrupt Changes in remuneration are calculated and implemented through our head office The rigorous management of risk employees from harm projects or mine expansions and regulations ongoing operations so that salary increases are broadly and subsidiary companies. Through is a vital part of our overall sustainability consistent across all levels of ongoing monitoring and auditing, we programme. Through regular stakeholder Unforeseen emergencies may The Company may fail to Issues may arise relating to Access to and security of the organisation. ensure that our performance is measured engagement, we work hard to identify, impact the health and safety demonstrate shared value management, biodiversity and affordable energy and water against all relevant regulatory and of employees and deliver on commitments planning for mine closure may become restricted manage and mitigate the sustainability Remuneration details can be found internal requirements. risks we face. In this way, we are Labour relations may become Company emissions may The Company may become in the Company’s Annual Report. committed to minimising any threats strained over wages and benefits contribute to severe weather over-dependent on sole suppliers Managing and to our people, communities and the and climatic conditions and in remote areas Code of Conduct monitoring behaviour environment, and to the long-term climate change success and sustainability of Polymetal’s Code of Conduct, While all employees understand the our Company. Ineffective use of materials and formally adopted in December 2011, standards of behaviour expected energy may lead to unwanted is approved by the Board of Directors. of them, we are mindful of the need to financial cost/inefficiency Our Group CEO, Board of Directors and It is communicated to all employees systematically monitor commercial Technical Council, aided by the Internal as a statement of the principles and The Company may fail to actions and decisions. Our Internal Audit Department, identify risks to the adequately manage third party expectations that guide ethical behaviour Audit Department (IAD) takes business and associated management suppliers and service providers, across the Company. responsibility for this process, operating operations. In doing so, they are informed leading to financial inefficiency under the auspices of an annual work by interaction with government agencies, in the supply chain, delays The Code covers employees’ conduct plan approved by the Audit and Risk the financial community, employees, local and disruption towards their colleagues and customers, Committee of the Board of Directors. communities, NGOs, customers and business partners, state authorities It conducts random audits of stock and suppliers. Our risk management process and society as a whole. It focuses on assets such as fuel and equipment, is then defined and monitored by the equality, health and safety, environmental checks on the performance of building Audit and Risk Committee of the Board. 14 Sustainability Report 2013/2014 Polymetal International plc Sustainability Report 2013/2014 Polymetal International plc 15 Overview Environment Employees Communities Economic GRI G4 index Stakeholder engagement A vibrant and growing stakeholder engagement programme GRI G4-24; G4-25; G4-26 GRI G4-24; G4-25; G4-26 As part of Polymetal’s commitment to good Stakeholders governance and sustainability, we engage regularly with our stakeholders in an open and Investors and shareholders Employees Suppliers and contractors Government, industry authorities Communities and NGOs transparent way. As a company, Polymetal exists Our people are one of our core Our suppliers and contractors make We maintain good relations with the Polymetal depends upon communities to create sustainable value strengths and assets; the success a significant contribution to our national and local governments under and NGOs for its licence to operate By communicating with for shareholders. of our business depends upon their business. We build stable, long-term whose jurisdictions we operate. in specific localities and regions. our stakeholders via a expertise, dedication and skill. relationships with them, enabling us to Why they are In turn, our shareholders and investors We abide by all laws and regulations We work with these stakeholders to range of channels, we achieve mutually beneficial terms of provide us with the capital we need We hire the most talented staff and that apply to our business, and we create mutually-beneficial conditions. contract and uninterrupted supply. are able to understand to develop and expand our operations. invest significantly in their training enter into open and transparent We also respect the rights of local important to us and development. In collaboration with our contract dialogue with industry authorities. and indigenous communities and and address the issues partners, we work to ensure In particular, we engage with invest in those areas that are that matter most compliance with environmental authorities on issues relating to important to them. to them. and safety standards across the improvements in mining legislation. Polymetal supply chain. • Board • Group CEO • All operational departments • GR team • Communications team Who is responsible • Group CEO • Chief Financial Officer • Legal team • Communications team • IR team • Human Resources team • Procurement team • Legal team • Health and safety team within Polymetal • Communications team • Operations directors and chief engineers • AGM/GM • Employee opinion polls • Direct correspondence • Working groups • Opinion polls and questionnaires • Annual and Sustainability Reports and questionnaires • Contractual relationships • Meetings • Public and face-to-face meetings • Investor conferences and • Workers’ councils • Meetings • Direct correspondence • Communication with Company Channels of one-to-one meetings • Internal hotline, website, suggestion • Compliance with Polymetal’s • Industry conferences managers • Presentations/conference calls boxes and grievance mechanisms requirements (for example, • Press conferences engagement • Site visits • Meetings and face-to-face health and safety) • Working groups (for NGOs) • Direct correspondence communication with management • Grievance mechanisms • Performance reviews • Email and telephone helplines • Annual direct line with the Group CEO • Financial, operational and • Wages, benefits and social packages • Contract specifications • Regulatory compliance • Investment sustainability performance • Working and living conditions • Tenders • Taxes • Employment • Dividends • Health and safety • Account management relationships • Labour issues • Infrastructure development Material issues • Regulation, economics and politics • Career progression and opportunities • Health and safety • Health and safety • Environmental and health impacts • Mergers and acquisitions • Social needs • Regulation • Environmental protection • Local culture, lifestyle, language • Labour • Training, development and education • Infrastructure and local development and traditions • Health and safety • Compliance with international environmental standards Read more Read more Read more Read more Read more More in our Annual Report 2014 in the Employee section in the Economic section pages 4, 11, 14, 21, 37, 41, in the Communities section info pages 32-47 pages 58-59 49-50, 55 pages 49-55 16 Sustainability Report 2013/2014 Polymetal International plc Sustainability Report 2013/2014 Polymetal International plc 17 Overview Environment Employees Communities Economic GRI G4 index How we identify our priorities Ensuring that materiality is central to sustainability GRI G4-18; G4-19; G4-20; G4-21; G4-23 GRI G4-18; G4-20; G4-21; G4-23 As part of our efforts to address Identifying material issues sustainability issues that matter most to > 07 17 29 01 our business and our stakeholders, and Economic L abour Practices and Water Local as part of our commitment to the GRI G4 01. Economic performance Decent work 06 communities Employment Economic reporting process, in 2014 we conducted 02. Market presence 29. Employment performance a full-scale materiality assessment. 15 Energy 03. Indirect economic impact 30. Labour/Management relations 35 32 04. Procurement practices 31. Occupational health and safety Supplier 31 The assessment was conducted by a 32. Training and education Supplier environmental Training and Significance of Polymetal’s economic, environmental, and social impacts working group of Polymetal’s managers Environmental 33. Diversity and equal opportunity assessment for assessment education Occupational labour practices 05 who are responsible for those areas of 05. Materials 34. Equal remuneration for women and men 39 health and safety 06. Energy 35. Supplier assessment for labour practices 33 activity that correlate with relevant GRI Materials 07. Water 36. Labour practices grievance mechanisms Freedom 12 21 reporting Categories and Aspects.1 Diversity 03 08. Biodiversity of association Firstly, the working group devised a and collective Environmental Compliance and equal questionnaire to elicit stakeholders’ 09. Emissions Human Rights compliance opportunity Indirect 10. Effluents and waste 37. Investment* bargaining opinions on these Aspects and their economic 11. Products and services 38. Non-discrimination impact degree of importance (low, medium 36 16 43 12. Environmental compliance 39. Freedom of association and 38 or high). From the results of the 13. Transport collective bargaining Environmental Indigenous questionnaire, the working group then 14. Overall 40. Child labour* Labour practices Non-discrimination rights grievance grievance created a list of Aspects for inclusion 15. Supplier environmental assessment 41. Forced or compulsory labour mechanisms in the 2013/14 Sustainability Report. mechanisms 16. Environmental grievance mechanisms 42. Security practices* 04 The working group also analysed our 43. Indigenous rights 09 08 27 Procurement interaction with various stakeholders Society 44. Assessment on certain issues, while the Company’s Emissions practices Biodiversity 17. Local communities 45. Supplier human rights assessment Closure management reviewed the selected 18. Anti-corruption 46. Human rights grievance mechanisms planning 46 23 02 Aspects. From these assessments, 19. Public policy 18 we were able to establish final materiality 20. Anti-competitive behaviour Product Responsibility Human right Grievance Market scores for all Aspects and issues, 21. Compliance 47. Customer health and safety* grievance mechanisms Anti-corruption presence 14 which were then approved by the Group 22. Supplier assessment for impact on society 48. Product and service labelling* mechanisms for impacts 23. Grievance mechanisms for impacts 49. Marketing communications* on society Overall CEO. The results of this process are on society 50. Customer privacy* 51 10 presented in the table opposite. For the 41 purposes of this report, we cover all 51. Legal compliance Effluents Legal 24 Aspects listed in the dark green zone. Mining and metals Forces or compliance and waste 24. Emergency preparedness compulsory Emergency 45 30 25. Artisanal and small-scale mining* labour preparedness All Aspects covered in the report 26. Resettlement Supplier Labour/ are material for all entities within the 11 27. Closure planning human rights Management organisation. There is no specific assessment 34 28. Material stewardship Products and relations limitation regarding Aspect Boundary 44 services within the organisation. Equal Assessment remuneration for 26 20 women and men The materiality matrix identifies five 28 Resettlement 13 material issues for management and Anti-competitive behaviour Material reporting which are applied to our stewardship Transport partners, contractors and suppliers. Aspects Significance 19 We do not deem issues that fall outside 22 of the material zone to be unimportant – Public policy Important Aspect Material Supplier inside the Company some of these aspects are not relevant assessment Low as Polymetal operates in countries where for impact Important Aspect issues covered by GRI G4 are already 1 The GRI defines relevant Aspects as those that ‘may Aspects material to Polymetal. on society inside and outside Not material of the Company regulated by national legislation and reasonably be considered important for reflecting an Important Aspects inside and outside the Company. we address these issues by complying organisation’s economic, environmental and social impacts, or influencing the decisions of stakeholders’. * Indicators not applicable to Polymetal. fully with all regulations in our countries of operation. ‘Materiality’ is the threshold ‘at which Aspects become sufficiently important that they should be reported’ Influence on stakeholder assessments and decisions > (source: https://g4.globalreporting.org/how-you-shouldreport/reporting-principles/principles-for-defining-reportcontent/materiality/Pages/default.aspx). 18 Sustainability Report 2013/2014 Polymetal International plc Sustainability Report 2013/2014 Polymetal International plc 19 Overview Environment Employees Communities Economic GRI G4 index Environment Successfully managing our environmental performance GRI G4-24 GRI G4-24; G4-26 We are committed to ensuring environmental progress Our policies and processes are designed to ensure that as our business expands, At the heart of the management system is our environmental policy, which can be Supplier environmental assessment by minimising the footprint of our operations and achieving we are able to manage and mitigate our risks and grow in a way that viewed at www.polymetalinternational.com. It focuses on the use of best practice, All of our suppliers comply with applicable greater efficiencies across our sites and facilities. does not significantly damage the natural environment. continuous improvement, risk reduction, compliance and management of specific laws and regulations. In our formal contractual agreements, we insist that environmental issues. It also focuses our suppliers meet their compliance Our approach strongly on incident and emergency requirements. However, beyond these control, the use of environmentally friendly stipulations we do not conduct formal Polymetal, as a typical mining business, materials and resource efficiency. supplier assessments or audits for operates complex processes on a large environmental compliance or best scale in remote locations. These Each of our subsidiary companies has its practice procedures. processes produce a range of waste own environmental team. These teams materials and use toxic substances, contribute to the running and monitoring such as cyanide. Like any other mining of the EMS and provide quarterly Environmental grievance company, we also produce significant performance reports to the Group. mechanisms quantities of emissions and carry out Air quality, surface water and ground We comply with stringent environmental processes that can have potentially water samples collected through the impact assessment procedures which negative environmental impacts. system are analysed at laboratories include public hearings and adequate certified to international standards. mechanisms to enable stakeholders To control these risks we have developed Meanwhile our in-house engineering to share their grievances. Our ongoing a robust environmental management operation, Polymetal Engineering, stakeholder engagement activities also system (EMS) that complies with employs more than 100 specialists provide forums for stakeholders to increasingly sophisticated national in the design and construction of mines voice concerns, and we maintain a record and international standards and and processing facilities. All ecological book at each of our operations in which regulations. This system is overseen aspects are taken into account during we log any comments from the public. by dedicated environmental teams, the new facility design stage. In 2013/14, there were no new major and focuses on resource and energy grievances filed about our environmental efficiency, pollution prevention, use of Auditing and compliance impacts; all minor issues raised at local modern equipment and technologies level were addressed and resolved and employee engagement. Across the Group, we incorporate regular through formal grievance mechanisms. auditing and monitoring activities into Our Group-wide EMS is planned and the environmental management system. What guidelines coordinated by our Chief Operating We also comply with the requirements Environmental training Who is responsible? Stakeholders Priorities do we follow? Officer from our Russian headquarters of relevant Russian and Kazakh legislation Each year, our Human Resources in St. Petersburg. The system is based and ISO 14001. External audits are department reviews environmental Group CEO, Chief Operating UN Global Compact, Employees, national Certify our environmental on international best practice and regularly undertaken by state supervisory training opportunities at national and Officer, HSE Director, Head Group Code of Conduct, government, local management system, complies with relevant Russian and authorities such as the Russian Federal international level. We also supplement of Environment, regional Group Environmental government, specialist complete ESIA, control and Kazakh legislation. As a result of our work Service for Supervision of Natural ongoing professional development with environmental managers, Management Policy, government agencies, local manage cyanide and tailings, in this area, in March 2013 we were Resource Usage, while audits conducted site visits and conferences – for example, managing directors, chief ISO 14001:2001 communities, indigenous improve energy efficiency, awarded ISO 14001 certification following by service providers (such as Bureau our environmental managers regularly engineers and heads of peoples groups and improve GHG emissions an external audit by Bureau Veritas, an Veritas) help us to improve our internal attend the annual All-Russian Industrial environmental departments other NGOs measurement process, independent environmental assurance environmental management Ecologists’ Seminar for an update on at our operations efficient use of water and agency. Additionally, our EMS is subject and performance. environmental legislation. Specific reductions in waste water to regular internal review. courses attended by our staff include During the reporting period, we received those covering environmental Material Aspects no significant fines or non-monetary management systems, hazardous sanctions for non-compliance with waste, land reclamation, water quality • Materials • Effluents and waste environmental laws and regulations. • Energy • Supplier environmental assessment and environmental security. • Water assessment • Biodiversity • Environmental grievance • GHG and other emissions mechanisms • Land reclamation 20 Sustainability Report 2013/2014 Polymetal International plc Sustainability Report 2013/2014 Polymetal International plc 21 Overview Environment Employees Communities Economic GRI G4 index Environment Measurable progress and a strong Breakdown of our environmental investments 2013-2014 (%) pipeline of ongoing initiatives ● Protection of water resources 51 ● Land reclamation 32 GRI G4-22 ● Reduction of atmospheric emissions 17 Investment in environmental business. The amounts of these payments Performance Standards and Performance protection are governed by environmental law and World Bank Environmental Health are defined by specialised government and Safety Guidelines. During 2013/14, we made good progress in our environmental management programmes. Our overall investment in environmental agencies through the audits they conduct protection during the reporting period was regularly at our operation sites. The major projects carried out in this period included land rehabilitation, environmental monitoring, industrial waste recycling, Five key environmental the construction of waste storage areas, the repair and replacement of gas purification and exhaust systems, and the control US$13.5 million, a slight increase from US$13.4 million in 2011/12. Of this total management projects of dust emissions. Kyzyl environmental completed in 2013-15 51% went into the protection of water resources, 32% into land reclamation, assessment GHG emissions Due to the remote locations of our operations, we rely 696 In addition to our action plan, we 675 642 and 17% into the reduction of Two top international environment (CO equivalent heavily on diesel fuel for power generation. These diesel have identified five key environmental 2 atmospheric emissions. and social consultants are currently tonnes per 10 Kt generators, plus the use of natural gas and coal for management projects for the period undertaking a detailed review of the of ore processed) heating and fuel for vehicles, account for the bulk 2013-2015. These projects, and the However, investment in 2014 decreased environmental and social issues of GHG emissions. The significant drop in emissions progress we have made within them, to US$5 million in comparison with related to the Kyzyl gold project in per unit for 2014 is evidence of our increasing are set out here: US$7.1 million in 2013, partially due to the East Kazakhstan, and will be issuing a carbon efficiency. 2012 2013 2014 completion of construction and ramp-up formal ESIA report along with the project 1. Construction of advanced wastewater of the environmental protection facilities at feasibility study in Q4 2015. The purpose purification units at Amursk. Total air emissions Stripping, mined waste storage, ore processing and 7.5 Polymetal’s new operations and partially of this report is to outline priority action Status: emergency wastewater and (tonnes per 10 Kt energy use generate air emissions. These emissions 6.2 due to currency devaluation. areas and to benchmark the project and storm wastewater purification station of ore mined) include non-organic dust, carbon dioxide and nitrogen 4.6 the embedded environmental programme has been built. Polymetal has obtained and sulphur oxides. The balance comprises quarterly so that the environmental and social a permit for wastewater discharge; payments we make to governments in the impacts are addressed in line with discharge in the Medvezhy Creek regions we operate for the negative impact international best practice, namely now complies with relevant standards. on the environment caused by our 2012 2013 2014 the International Finance Corporation 2. Completion of mine site rehabilitation Major waste Overburden and tailings are the primary waste materials 7.8 at Yurievskoye. components arising from our operational activities. We operate against 6.6 Progress against goals within our action plan 2013-15 Status: Yurievskoye deposit has (tonnes per tonne a set of procedures that are designed to maximise 5.8 Our action plan for 2013-15 is geared towards the continuous improvement of our been rehabilitated. of ore mined)1 volumes of recycled materials and minimise our potential environmental management system. Our action plan targets, and the progress we impacts on people and the environment. have made within them, are set out here: 3. Start of waste oil combustion. Status: used industrial oils are being We said… We did… 2012 2013 2014 burnt at Albazino, Mayskoye and the Omolon hub to heat on-site buildings Discharges to Across our operations we aim to reduce discharge 5.3 We would certify our environmental Commissioned Bureau Veritas to undertake management system to the ISO 14001 planned audits, covering all Polymetal and spaces. surface water intensity, improve the quality of water discharged, 4.4 4.3 standard (2013). operations and sites; ISO 14001 certification (thousand cubic enhance the efficiency of water use and increase was achieved in March 2013. 4. Full-capacity performance for the metres per 10 Kt recycling. Any increases are due to growth of incoming water purification plant at Lunnoye. of ore processed) waters in our open pits. We would commission a comprehensive Changed our GHG calculation methodology Status: re-equipping of the water GHG emissions survey and harmonise to align with UK standards; our methodology cleaning station is nearly complete; GHG reporting with UK and international now extends to GHGs produced during Polymetal is in the process of aligning 2012 2013 2014 standards (2013). the generation of power purchased from waste discharge into the Bulur River third-party suppliers and is reported fully in line Energy intensity Polymetal's remote subsidiaries must generate their 76.5 79.1 with relevant standards and obtaining (gigajoules per 10 Kt own sources of electricity and heat, which currently 74.2 with London Stock Exchange requirements. the requisite discharge permit. of ore processed) 2 necessitates significant use of diesel. However, we are We would introduce a monitoring and Implemented a new system to calculate constantly reviewing costs, environmental impacts and measuring system at each production negative impact indicators; the system 5. Improvement of water treatment alternatives, and the increase in 2014 is the result of the site that meets ongoing compliance and is in operation at all Polymetal sites. efficiency and reduction of water change from diesel to electricity-powered equipment. addresses five priority issues, depending consumption at Voro. on the nature and location of the operation. Status: measures designed to 2012 2013 2014 improve treatment efficiency and We would integrate EMS decision-making Implemented our EMS across all Company reduce water consumption are 1 In our 2011/12 Sustainability Report, there was a typographical error due to the difference between Russian and British numerical formats. Please divide the figures given in the 2011/12 report into standard operating procedures at each operations; EMS is now a part of the by 1,000 when making comparisons with the figures given above. production unit. This will give employees Polymetal Corporate Management System. currently being implemented. 2 In the 2011/12 Sustainability Report energy intensity was calculated for tonnes of ore mined whereas in the current report we calculate energy use for tonnes of ore processed. much greater input into identifying significant environmental impacts and determining Read more about the performance in each of these areas further on the next pages. methods of reduction. 22 Sustainability Report 2013/2014 Polymetal International plc Sustainability Report 2013/2014 Polymetal International plc 23 Overview Environment Employees Communities Economic GRI G4 index Environment Managing our waste profile and water use actively and responsibly Materials, waste and tailings Materials 2013-2014 (t) amount of production and consumption Total waste (Kt) 2014 2013 % change waste we have treated in these ways 2014 2013 2012 Across our production processes, we is as shown in the Waste treatment primarily use ore and energy. During Cement 12,350 14,500 -15% Total waste generated 79,435 81,141 82,857 table on this page. 2014, we mined 13,706 Kt of ore and Burnt lime 18,553 10,956 69% – transferred and neutralised 42 42 42 processed 11,300 Kt. Overall, our Grinding balls 16,033 11,251 43% Our tailings storage facilities are built – stored 63,624 60,288 61,978 operations are energy intensive Sodium cyanide 7,497 7,904 -5% in full compliance with Russian and – reused 15,779 20,811 20,837 (for information on energy use, see Kazakh environmental requirements pages 26-27) and generate specific waste Diesel fuel for drying 1,514 2,808 -46% Reused of total waste (%) 20 26 25 relating to the prevention of soil and materials. In 2013/14, our total operations Soda 1,388 893 55% water contamination. They also take generated 160,576 Kt of ‘production and Overburden and tailings (Kt) Caustic soda 815 483 69% into account detailed engineering and consumption waste’: 81,141 Kt in 2013 Sulphate of copper 797 783 2% geological studies. For each storage 2014 2013 2012 and 79,435 Kt in 2014, compared to facility, the underlying geology must be Overburden 67,944 71,404 72,914 82,857 Kt in 2012. Butyl xanthate 721 627 15% characterised by minimal surface or Tailings 10,707 8,925 9,114 Perhydrol 559 4,590 -88% ground water filtration rates. We also We consume a range of materials in our Flocculant + flotation reagents 462 421 10% use impervious polyethylene waterproof Recycled materials processing facilities. In an effort to limit screens linked to sophisticated drainage Zinc powder 303 464 -35% 2014 2013 2012 associated financial and environmental systems. This approach means material impacts, we use these materials Activated carbon 285 193 48% Total mass of reused/recycled materials (Kt) 15,811 20,853 20,897 can be held in situ, preventing effectively and continually monitor related Acetate or lead nitrate 255 194 32% contamination of the surrounding area. Proportion of recycled materials used by Polymetal as costs within the production process. Perlite, diatomaceous soil 228 191 19% a percentage of the total mass of waste materials (%) 19.9 25.7 25.2 Once the ore is processed, the final Cyanide and hazardous Hydrochloric acid 97 121 -20% products produced at our sites include waste management Waste treatment (Kt) Doré bars, zinc precipitate, flotation Chlorinated lime 87 31 185% Cyanide is one of the more harmful 2014 2013 2012 and gravity concentrates. Sulfamic acid 56 68 -17% consumables which generate hazardous Waste used (utilised, detoxified) including by outsourced Trilon B 41 39 6% waste components during the recovery of specialist contractors 20,879 20,853 15,811 The table on this page shows the quantity gold from the ore we process. In 2014 we Magnesium sulfate 40 40 0% Waste disposed of in own waste disposal facilities 61,978 60,288 63,624 of basic consumable materials used used 8,002 tonnes of cyanide, compared across the Group’s production sites, Foaming agent 36 38 -5% to 7,369 tonnes in 2013 and 7,089 tonnes Cyanide and hazardous waste management although we have not included materials Hex 15 12 25% in 2012. used in the construction of processing Borax (sodium tetraborate) 12 19 -37% Hazardous and non-hazardous waste hubs or maintenance. All materials are Due to its hazardous nature, we pay 2014 2014 2013 2013 2012 2012 Sulfuric acid 0 2201 -100% purchased from our contractors (see particular attention to the way we Kt % Kt % Kt % page 58 for more on procurement). manage and monitor this material. Hazardous waste 79 0.1 81 0.1 83 0.1 Big bags, FIBC (units) 159,351 157,351 1% Our approach involves: Non-hazardous waste 79,356 99.9 81,060 99.9 82,774 99.9 Overburden and tailings Filtrate (units) 1250 1250 0% The most significant waste streams • identifying all associated hazards; linked to our operations are overburden • strictly controlling all cyanide levels Additionally, when we use cyanide we and tailings, which account for more This slight decline was the result of Internally, our audit teams conduct in our tailings; use 100% of the volumes purchased than 99% of total arisings by volume. reduced levels of road construction and regular checks and assess our to ensure there is no waste element. The former is material extracted to • monitoring air, soil, surface and repair work carried out in this period, compliance with relevant regional ground waters; Cyanide also exists in our processes uncover ore deposits, and the latter which meant less demand for overburden and national standards relating to as a chemical compound found in gas, is a by-product of ore processing. as a recycled waste material. the treatment of overburden, tailings • providing environmental monitoring water and in solids, which we later purify. and other waste. This process is results to public authorities; and In 2013/14, we produced a total of Waste management supplemented by environmental In line with our commitments in this area, 139 million tonnes of overburden, and • delivering environmental protection Across our operations we are committed performance spot-checks measures, including the design, we take a rigorous approach to the 20 million tonnes of tailings. to responsible waste management. We by specialist government agencies. transportation of hazardous materials. construction and monitoring of tailings operate systems and procedures that are dams, and the monitoring of water In 2013/14, we did not transport, Recycled materials designed to maximise the amounts we We deal with the production and import or export any waste deemed Wherever possible we try to recycle the sources and quality, riverbed changes recycle and minimise potential impacts consumption wastes we generate by and associated drainage. hazardous under the terms of the Basel waste we produce. However, between on people and the environment. reutilising them in our own production Convention 2, Annex I, II, III and VIII. 2012 and 2014 the proportion of recycled processes, outsourcing them to specialist materials used across our operations companies, and disposing of them within as a percentage of total waste produced our own waste facilities. Since 2012, the decreased from 25.2% to 19.9%. 24 Sustainability Report 2013/2014 Polymetal International plc Sustainability Report 2013/2014 Polymetal International plc 25 Overview Environment Employees Communities Economic GRI G4 index Environment Striving for greater efficiency GHG emissions intensity (CO2 eq. t/10Kt of ore processed) and minimising negative impact 696 675 642 2012 2013 2014 Water Total water withdrawn by source (thousand cubic metres per annum) • created optimal power backup systems; Direct energy consumption (thousand gigajoule) 2014 2013 2012 • optimised headcount; 2014 2013 2012 We withdraw significant volumes of water for use across our business. All water Total water withdrawn by source 9,498 7,306 7,756 Total 7,360 6,734 6,088 • outsourced non-core aspects of is re-used, treated and discharged as – surface water 950 731 776 power infrastructure; – diesel (transport and mobile machinery) 3,361 2,687 2,358 effluent to surface water, or is treated and – ground water 8,548 6,575 6,980 – diesel power plants 2,093 2,106 1,813 stored in tailings dams. We capture all • introduced energy efficiency indicators water consumption and discharge data to key stages of production, such as – electricity generated 774 735 697 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused using water meters, flow meters and (% and thousand cubic metres per annum) mining, processing, transportation, – heat 455 559 566 indirect measuring. storage and power generation; and – coal 414 371 358 2014 2013 2012 Water recycled and reused 8,263 6,210 6,980 • upgraded energy-intensive equipment. – natural gas 227 243 262 We have consent from local and state authorities to withdraw water from Percentage of water withdrawal – recycled and reused (%) 87 85 90 – petrol for transport 36 32 33 Energy savings a wide range of sources adjacent As part of our sustainable energy Total water discharged by the Company’s operations Indirect energy consumption (thousand gigajoule) to our operating sites. Due to the wide programme, we have also implemented geographical spread of our operations, (thousand cubic metres per annum) 2014 2013 2012 numerous energy saving initiatives across we are able to ensure that our usage 2014 2013 2012 our sites. For example, we have: Purchased electricity 1,580 1,489 1,211 does not place undue demands on any Total water discharge 5,945 4,620 4,270 one water source, and always remains • introduced fuel and energy within acceptable withdrawal limits. We resource metering; Energy intensity (gigajoules per Kt of ore processed) 791 765 744 also withdraw very little from surface and agreements in place, and the quality As part of our commitment to Ore processed (Kt) 11,300 10,749 9,809 • introduced preventative water bodies such as rivers or springs. of our discharge water complies with sustainability we are determined to equipment maintenance; Indeed, around 90% of our water sources target indicators. improve our energy efficiency performance Greenhouse gas emissions1 (t) are underground, and our annual average wherever possible. To this end, we: • installed LED lighting; 2014 2013 2012 volume of water withdrawn from surface bodies does not exceed 10%. Those Energy • carefully plan the amount of power • installed frequency control drives Total GHG emissions 725,226 725,366 682,531 resources we need to achieve and soft starters; – direct GHG emissions2 304,248 327,222 345,130 surface sources we do use are located Due to the nature of our industry, away from environmentally sensitive Polymetal’s mining operations are energy operational reliability and effectiveness; • started using heat from compressors – indirect GHG emissions3 420,978 398,144 337,401 areas, or those areas where water intensive. Additionally, the dispersed • provide our operations with the to warm production buildings; sources are of high value to local nature of our business means our requisite amount of fuel within a set • carried out feasibility studies for GHG emissions intensity (CO eq. t/10 Kt of ore processed) 642 675 696 communities and indigenous peoples. operating units are often based in remote period of time; a range of new energy products 2 locations, where lack of grid power GHG emissions intensity (CO eq. t/Koz GE) 507 566 642 and technologies; 2 Regardless of location, our overarching and extreme weather make us reliant • sign contracts with power suppliers; aim is to reduce the amount of water we • conducted annual competitions for Other pollutants (t) on diesel fuel. This diesel, plus gas • monitor power supply and use per unit of output. In addition, we aim purchased from third-party suppliers, consumption against approved best ideas for energy saving; and 2014 2013 2012 to reduce to the absolute minimum the accounts for the majority of our total budgets and energy efficiency targets; • introduced Group-wide energy audits Sulphur dioxide (SOx) 304 276 174 volume and impact of liquids discharged direct energy consumption, mainly on a five-year basis. NOx, (Nitrogen oxide + dioxide) 1,493 1,358 925 into watercourses, while maximising for heating, powering equipment and • conduct regular energy efficiency the safety of our tailings dams. audits across our operations; and Inorganic dust (solid particles) 4,125 3,750 3,148 vehicles. We also derive energy from coal As a result of this work, in 2013 we saved which we mine at our production sites. Carbon monoxide (CO) 1,852 1,684 1,387 • appoint external agencies to inspect 2,116 kWh of power and 34.8 tonnes During 2013/14, the total amount of ore our operations and resolve power of diesel fuel, and in 2014 we saved 1 From 1 January 2013, the Group began calculating CO2 emissions according to the reference book ‘International Greenhouse mined by Polymetal increased year-onEnergy efficiency supply issues. 1,495 tonnes of diesel. Gases Emissions Inventory Methodology’ developed by A. Zinchenko from the scientific and production corporation year by 32%, meaning the total amount Balancing our energy requirements with Atmosphere in St. Petersburg in 2003. 2 Direct emissions include: CO -equivalent emissions produced by combustion of fuel (diesel fuel, petrol, gas, coal) and use of water used across our operations the need for efficiency is a challenge. Across our sites we have installed 2 also increased. As well as ensuring we can develop Air emissions of electric power when operating own power-generating facilities, automobile transport, main and auxiliary mining equipment. new, modern equipment to improve 3 Indirect emissions include: CO -equivalent emissions that relate to the generation of power purchased (imported) by the 2 and maintain our operations’ power operational efficiencies – for example, Greenhouse gas emissions Company’s operations. Over the past three years, the volume of infrastructure, our objectives are to through better insulation, enhanced Our operations produce direct water re-used by all Group companies promote energy efficiency and savings layout and relay protection. In addition greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions has averaged 87% of the total withdrawn. across our operations, while also to these measures, we have also: through the generation of heat and The remaining proportion is treated pursuing strategic options for renewable electricity from diesel generators, the and discharged to surface water, in energy use. • installed Digital Control Systems (DCS) burning of natural gas and coal, and the accordance with the requirements of and Automated Metering Systems use of industrial and household landfills. Russian and Kazakh environmental (AMS) so we can manage operational legislation. We have discharge permits processes online; 26 Sustainability Report 2013/2014 Polymetal International plc Sustainability Report 2013/2014 Polymetal International plc 27 Overview Environment Employees Communities Economic GRI G4 index Environment Ensuring a consistent programme of environmental initiatives We use established international no major biodiversity impacts arising from To offset the water intensive nature of our and its partners, with the scope of Five key environmental management projects for 2015-17 methodology to calculate our CO2 our operations. However, some of our operation, we have programmes in place assessment, legal and rehabilitation costs emissions. Direct CO2 emissions resulting production sites do extend to the forest to help sustain local fish populations. proportional to the share of ownership We have identified five key environmental management projects for the from our operations continued to fall, and tundra areas of Russia’s Far East, and determined by the relevant period 2015-2017. These are: down to 304 Kt in 2014, compared to which are sparsely populated and home At Mayskoye we have launched a project national laws. Rehabilitation Sewage collector 327 Kt in 2013 and 345 Kt in 2012. to certain rare and endangered species to help restore fisheries in neighbouring Rehabilitation of the pits Construction of a sewage of plants and animals. Of the 11 mineral Kamchatka region. Mayskoye has signed The Company regularly assesses the in the Ozerny area. collector from the Amursk POX Indirect emissions and other pollutants fields that we are currently developing, a contract with the Federal State Agency financial liability related to abandonment plant to a mechanical sewage released during production processes seven are situated in such areas, where of Fisheries and Water Bio Resources to or suspension at each site and ensures Reconstruction purification station. are shown in the table on page 27. the potential impacts of our operations compensate for damage done by the financial provisions are available to Reconstruction of the dump facility on local biodiversity are: Company to aquatic bioresources and cover these costs. Geological, surveying for solid domestic and industrial Recycling The increase in emissions of other habitats. Under the terms of the contract, and repair works ensure that once • temporary extraction of land for waste in Lunnoye. Recycling of industrial waste pollutants between 2012 and 2014 is Mayskoye will invest in breeding and a mine is suspended or abandoned mining and construction of facilities; in Mayskoye. linked to the expansion of mining activities releasing over 7,000 chum salmon that shafts, drilling sites and buildings Wastewater purification and energy use across our operations. • temporary change in conditions yearlings into the Zelenovsky Creek are not hazardous or dangerous, Increased throughput of the However, during 2013/14, Polymetal necessary to support flora and and Avacha River basin surface water and environmental rehabilitation storm wastewater purification emitted no ozone depleting substances, fauna; and streams in summer 2015. is also undertaken. station at Voro. and overall Polymetal became much • temporary change in conditions more efficient as an organisation. We aim At Varvara we are also using pit water to necessary to support invertebrates. to minimise emissions by ensuring that create new environments for fish stocks. all vehicles and mining equipment we However, at all seven of these sites, use are modern, feature the latest Planning for mine closures and indeed at all of our fields, we technology, and comply with European operate a system designed to protect Since all mines will eventually fully exploit quality standards. biodiversity. This involves baseline their mineral resources and ore reserves pre-development monitoring and the and cease operating, closure planning Biodiversity management creation of protection and buffer zones is integrated into the development of We make concerted efforts to minimise away from key extraction, transport every one of our operating mines and our impact on flora and fauna in the and construction activity. development projects. An assessment regions where we operate. We therefore of potential closure liabilities is undertaken do not operate in or adjacent to protected All those working on a site, including once we start developing a project and or vulnerable areas of land or bodies contractors, undergo a programme is updated regularly. of water. We also do not operate on of environmental and health and safety or adjacent to land that is identified awareness training. This requires Polymetal’s long-term remediation as having natural, historical or cultural individuals to take personal responsibility obligations include decommissioning and value for Indigenous Minorities of the for complying with procedures intended restoration liabilities in compliance with North (IMN). to minimise damage to flora and fauna. the regulatory requirements in place in the Additionally, once an extraction area has countries where we operate. Suspension The majority of our operational sites are been worked out, we implement a or abandonment costs are borne by the located in extreme northern territories comprehensive programme of land Company or, in the case of joint ventures which are low in conservational and rehabilitation to reverse any environmental or associates, are funded by Polymetal biodiversity value. As a result, there are degradation that may have been caused. Disturbed and rehabilitated land (hectares) 2014 2013 2012 Amount of leased and owned land, total 13,224 11,762 11,443 Land disturbed as of 1 January 8,4331 7,411 7,052 Land newly disturbed for the year 790 744 783 Land newly rehabilitated for the year (42) (18) (424) Remaining disturbed and not yet rehabilitated land as of 31 December 9,182 8,1361 7,411 1 The difference in land disturbed figures as at 31 December 2013 and 1 January 2014 is due to the acquisition of Kyzyl and the issue of associated land use planning permission, which was effective from 1 January 2014. 28 Sustainability Report 2013/2014 Polymetal International plc Sustainability Report 2013/2014 Polymetal International plc 29 Overview Environment Employees Communities Economic GRI G4 index Case study Minimising environmental impacts at Amursk POX At Polymetal’s Amursk POX, our In addition to these measures, a bespoke Water purification is another major management team has undertaken system of environmental monitoring has component of the sustainability a range of measures to reduce been developed at Amursk to protect programme at Amursk. Across the site, Case study environmental risks and ensure the staff and the environment from the four systems of reverse water supply are ecological wellbeing of the local area. various chemical compounds that are installed which allow for the water used in The new state-of-the-art plant was built from scratch on a clean site necessary for production. Monitoring is conducted by the plant’s own laboratory, which is fully accredited, production to be purified and then reused. Quality control of ‘technical’ water is also carried out regularly within the production Promoting in accordance with national and international standards. At the heart of the plant’s impact-minimisation equipped with modern technology and staffed by qualified specialists. Monitoring is conducted on key indicators and takes process. In addition, the plant purifies all types of storm and household sewage. After purifying, some of the plant’s ecological safety: waste programme is the most technologicallyinto account impacts on air, water and surface waste water is responsibly advanced processing facility in Russia. subterranean material. Across the plant, discharged into the Medvezhiy Stream This facility enables us to significantly air conditions are also regularly assessed which flows into the Padali Lake and oil storage reduce the dust emissions associated within production zone parameters, with the Amur River. with traditional methods of open samples assessed three times a month transportation and ore crushing. at each territorial control point. Flotation concentrate arrives at the plant ready to use, while consumables are delivered in tight packages to protect the contents from interaction with the As part of the monitoring system, all plant employees are required to observe strict safety regulations and The efficiency of our monitoring is ensured by the versatility of research at Sopka environment. Furthermore, semi-dry operate to exacting ecological standards. conducted and the accurate execution tailings impoundment significantly Our onsite ecologists also exercise of the sampling schedule. Our plant reduces onsite water consumption special control over all types of Soil pollution from waste oil leakage can Previously, ecological safeguards at mine water and air analysis is carried out present a major ecological challenge sites included the use of oiled sawdust and minimises the risk of production and household waste. The monthly at six separate control points. ecological contamination. plant’s main waste product is ‘mineral for mining companies. To address this and sand for the localisation and recovery Samples are measured for the content issue at the Sopka mine site, in 2013 of contaminants. However, the new Soil surface can become easily cake’, and at the cake warehouse the of calcium, nitrogen dioxide, nitrogen we created a special storage platform sorbent film is much more effective and contaminated at mine sites. Large team uses waterproof film to prevent the oxide, sulphur dioxide and dust, while at the Omolon hub with a waterproof offers far greater protection in the event concentrations of various chemical transfer of substances into ground monthly noise measurements are layer made from polymeric film. The of an oil spill or leakage. compounds in the soil can harm soil waters, plus hydrological wells to enable carried out in a sanitary zone. It is 1.5 mm thick supersolid film forms organism activity and reduce soil the monitoring of ground waters at a robust system than enables us to a protective barrier which adheres Additionally, at Sopka, as at other fertility. In turn, the polluted soils depths of up to ten meters. accurately monitor and minimise our to the strictest modern requirements for Polymetal sites, employees receive are a source of contamination of impact on the local environment.” ecological safety and prevents harmful rigorous training in oil spill prevention, underground and surface waters substances from filtering into the soil. elimination and recovery. Plant ecologists during rain and snowmelt. But at Andrey Panishev also hold regular meetings with thirdSopka, thanks to our special platforms, Head of Environmental Protection, Wooden pallets with side fences party organisations to ensure all suppliers there are no oil waste stains or spills. Amursk POX Plant and metal waterproofing were also and contractors are up-to-speed with our Rigorous monitoring and testing have constructed to hold and enclose the policies and practices in relation to health, also confirmed the efficiency of our oil barrels on the platform. Combined, safety and environmental protection. protective measures. These efforts these measures ensure there is zero to promote environmental safety contact between the waste oil and at Sopka confirm Polymetal’s any surrounding natural materials, commitment to sustainability.” with protection against soil pollution guaranteed for many years to come. Tatyana Klimenko Head of the Department of Environment Protection and Industrial Hygiene at the Omolon hub 30 Sustainability Report 2013/2014 Polymetal International plc Sustainability Report 2013/2014 Polymetal International plc 31 Overview Environment Employees Communities Economic GRI G4 index Investing in our people Continuing to build on our dedicated Gender composition (%) Senior management Qualified personnel commitment to our employees 23 22 22 43 44 43 77 78 78 57 56 57 2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 GRI G4-24 ● Male ● Female We invest significantly in the training, development and wellbeing As we expand our operations, we are looking to develop our stable, loyal and The Polymetal Code of Conduct is supported by specific policies on To ensure that we meet these objectives, we have developed a range of corporate of our employees. This investment is part of our commitment to them motivated employee base. Each year we deepen our internal Talent Pool, recruitment and equality, professional development, appraisal, training, policies and procedures which frame the Company’s employment principles. as people and professionals, and part of our commitment to the future increasing the scope of our employees’ expertise and building our leadership resources and skills, organisational design, productivity, motivation These are coordinated by our Group Head of Human Resources from our success and sustainability of our business. capabilities for the future. We also pay competitive salaries and provide equal and reward. Russian headquarters in St. Petersburg. They are implemented by our Human terms of recruitment, employment and The Code also communicates our Resources Committee and the Managing promotion, making Polymetal a highly position on harassment and bullying, Directors of our operating subsidiaries in attractive place to work. drugs, conflicts of interest, bribery, collaboration with their HR teams. entertainment/gifts, government relations, Indeed, we believe that by providing anti-trust and anti-competition laws, Our core employment policies cover: an environment in which our employees community relations, insider dealing, feel well looked after, rewarded and data protection, transparency/disclosure Workforce diversity and listened to, we can continue to build and environmental protection. By listening anti-discrimination the workforce we need to meet our to our employees and ensuring they We believe that workforce diversity long-term business goals. abide by our codes and polices, we aim is a strength and we are deeply to build a corporate culture based on committed to equal opportunities Our approach mutual respect and understanding. and terms of employment. We actively recruit people on merit, In our approach to human resource Employment policies eliminating any discrimination on the development, we aim to attract and retain grounds of race, skin colour, gender, the very best professionals by providing In line with the UN Global Compact religion, political opinions, nationality an inclusive, fair and enabling working and International Labour Organisation or social origin. In particular, we aim environment. An environment in which Principles, our main employment to create the conditions for the good performance is rewarded, talent objectives are to build a workforce that greater inclusion of women within is developed and health and safety is motivated to achieve our organisational our workforce and leadership. are protected. targets, and create working conditions and a system of incentives that improve In support of these efforts, we also Indeed, as a key stakeholder group, safety. We also seek to supply Company comply with Russian constitutional our employees expect a certain standard operations with appropriately skilled and international standards on staff of behaviour from us. We aim to provide personnel, and operate a continuous and management equality, ensuring What guidelines a high-quality workplace, career employee skills improvement programme. that our employees work in a fair and Who is responsible? Stakeholders Priorities do we follow? development opportunities and direction. respectful environment. In return, our employees are expected Group CEO, HR Director UN Global Compact, Employees, specialised Recruit and retain engaged to adhere to our Company Code In 2013/14, no cases of discrimination and his team, managing Group Code of Conduct, agencies, suppliers and motivated employees, of Conduct. were reported within the Company. directors and HR teams National Labour Code, develop career pathways, at our operations Standard Regulation on improve communications Social Conditions and with employees Service Quality Control, Human Resources policies, Collective Agreements Material Aspects • Employment • Diversity and equal • Labour practices • Freedom of association • Labour/management opportunity grievance mechanisms and collective bargaining relations • Equal remuneration • Occupational health • Human rights • Training and education for women and men and safety • Non-discrimination 32 Sustainability Report 2013/2014 Polymetal International plc Sustainability Report 2013/2014 Polymetal International plc 33 Overview Environment Employees Communities Economic GRI G4 index Investing in our people Training, motivation and reward 1.2 US$m at the core of our activities investment in training 2013/14 for almost 10,000 employees GRI G4-27 Anti-corruption Induction Headcount and diversity Salaries and benefits During 2013/14, we continued to curricula. This is delivered as part We educate our employees on It is essential that new employees demonstrate our deep commitment to of an appraisal system that measures As at 31 December 2014, we employed We strongly believe in acknowledging and our employees. Despite macroeconomic employee development and maps out preventing corruption and its potential are immersed in our Company 9,180 people across the Group’s rewarding our employees’ achievements. headwinds, we sustained stable wage career pathways. When an employee impact on our business. We also culture and codes of conduct. By production, exploration, research, We offer competitive and fair rates of pay growth across the Group in line with joins the Company, they undergo an initial implement a range of measures successfully integrating new recruits development, design, logistics and and benefits to ensure we can attract inflation, maintaining our position appraisal as part of a detailed training designed to prevent corrupt practices into the Company, we ensure that our management activities. Most of those and retain the best people. Our levels of as an attractive employer in the labour plan which is then drawn up and agreed. and fraudulent transactions among mission, vision and values are upheld working in extraction and exploration salary and remuneration exceed regional market in the regions where we operate. our workforce, our contractors and and reflected across our operations. work on a fly-in/fly-out basis, due to averages in all our areas of operation General management and specialist our suppliers. the demanding nature of the work and (see chart below), while our long-term We also continued to deliver technical training is delivered through Training and education the remote locations of many sites. incentives are linked to employees’ improvements to employees’ working corporate training centres, via our own In 2013/14, we continued our We invest in training across the On average, shift workers account performance and potential. conditions, especially for those specialists and/or external providers. We training curriculum on all aspects Company to develop our employees’ for 41% of our total headcount. undertaking shift work in remote areas have also developed the Polymetal Talent of corruption; 66 seminars on skills and capabilities. Through Within the Company, our remuneration with severe climates. Key achievements Pool, which is our primary mechanism for anti-corruption measures were training, we enhance performance In 2013/14, women occupied 22% of our structure is built around a base salary, included the construction of a modern developing the next generation of skilled attended by 3,000 Polymetal across the Company and ensure our management roles, compared to 23% in which comprises a fixed salary and workers’ dormitory in Mayskoye, managers. Additionally, employees have employees, including all regional workforce can meet our operational 2012. In 2014, the proportion of women allowance based on an employee’s comprehensive repair of dormitories the chance to attend training sessions managing directors. requirements, while also helping working in the Group was 22%. Women qualifications and personal attributes. For at Dukat, and the commissioning of with other international mining companies employees to further their represent 22% of Board members, 22% operational staff, we provide a time-paid state-of-the-art sports facilities in some in order to broaden their range During the year, the main type own careers. of senior management positions, and salary which is calculated according to of our more remote locations. of influences. of corruption identified within our 43% of qualified employees. the number of hours worked, the amount business was limited to minor fraud Employee appraisal of work done, and monthly and annual For the past five years, we have instances relating to purchasing, We appraise employees’ skills in line We have also been working with local allowances based on performance and Training and development equipment inventory, supplier lobbying with performance targets, giving fair implemented a distance learning system universities to provide internships and available funds. In these measures, We invest in training and development for pre-certification training in industrial and the quality of materials and and constructive feedback designed pathways into the business for ‘young we comply with and exceed all legal to enhance the capabilities of our people. and occupational safety. This system is equipment. Eleven of our managers to maximise employee effectiveness specialist’ graduates. In total, in 2013/14 requirements in Russia and Kazakhstan. Our training programmes are designed an efficient means of reaching employees were dismissed and three were for the benefit of the Company and we employed 714 people under the age to create the workforce we need to meet in remote locations – enhancing sanctioned for fraudulent activities. the individual. of 30 across the Company. By the end We also offer an annual bonus scheme our operational and strategic goals, and productivity and effectiveness, while None of these cases had a material of 2014, employees under 30 accounted for all professional staff which is linked to offer our employees opportunities for reducing associated costs. It also impact on our financial position or Organisational design for 24% of our workforce. Please see the to targets based on Company KPIs. career progression. complements the work of our Corporate operations, and no court cases As part of our commitment to chart below. Meanwhile, our social benefits package Training Centre in St. Petersburg and the relating to corruption were brought sustainability, we aim to achieve offers employees many kinds of support All Polymetal employees have access teaching facilities present on most of against the Company or any of operational and organisational and compensation, including: to a comprehensive training programme, our sites. our employees. efficiency at all levels. To this end we have centralised our management • financial aid for those experiencing covering general aspects of our  otivation M functions, streamlined roles across difficult life circumstances; operations and specific technical We take great pride in the high our operating companies, and • assistance with kindergarten, afterlevels of motivation and engagement introduced rotating schedules school and holiday camp fees; within our workforce. By inspiring our where appropriate. employees and recognising their • compensation of travel costs for those achievements, we aim to strengthen Headcount People under 30 in total headcount* travelling to our facilities (including their Polymetal salaries compared to regional and industry wages their commitment and performance. We are committed to sustainable 9,237 8,998 9,180 family members) from other regions; Polymetal’s salaries were: cost reduction through the 27% 25% 24% • once-yearly reimbursement of holiday 254% higher than across the regional average 270% higher than across the regional average Our core motivation measures automation of inefficient manual 147% higher than across the industry average 150% higher than across the industry average travel costs for all family members for include competitive levels of processes. By using appropriate 73% 75% 76% those working in remote locations; pay, output-linked remuneration, and effective automation technology, fair social benefits and effective we can reduce costs without • housing assistance; feedback mechanisms. necessarily reducing staff numbers. • mortgage sponsorships; and • 60 days of paid holiday a year for workers engaged in mining in the Far North. 2012 2013 2014 ● Other ● Young people 2013 2014 * As at 31 December. ● Polymetal average ● Industry average ● Regional average 34 Sustainability Report 2013/2014 Polymetal International plc Sustainability Report 2013/2014 Polymetal International plc 35 Overview Environment Employees Communities Economic GRI G4 index Investing in our people A clear platform for employee relations and HR management GRI G4-27 GRI G4-24; G4-26; G4-27 Training (number of employees trained) Training in 2013/14 Employee turnover Employee relations They have access to lists of key contacts Human resources We invested US$0.7 million in 2014 that are posted on information boards at development objectives and US$0.5 million in 2013 in Over the past few years we managed to We support our employees’ right to all of our operational sites. Senior 4,280 5,346 significantly reduce our average employee freedom of association, open and honest professional training across all disciplines management commits to providing an Looking ahead to 2015 and beyond, 13% 18% (compared to US$1.1 million in 2012 and turnover rate (including fly-in/fly-out dialogue and their desire to enter into adequate response and, in 2013/14, more our key objectives are as follows: 13% 10% US$0.9 million in 2011). This means that operations). It was 11.4% in 2014 and collective agreements. than 1,836 such enquiries were received 28% 26% • to enhance the efficiency of training 9,626 employees received some form of 18.5% in 2013, compared to 17.8% in and answered to the satisfaction of the 2012 and 19.6% in 2011. In 2013/14, 100% of our employees received by employees in the 46% 46% professional development training during individuals concerned. were covered by collective bargaining Talent Pool; the reporting period. In 2013/14, the average number of hours of training for In support of our efforts to reduce agreements at our operating sites in Our experience in regulating employee • to expand training programmes and managers and qualified employees was employee turnover and promote mobility Russia and Kazakhstan (up from 82% in relations is underpinned by a system course diversity across the Company’s 2013 2014 49 and 72 hours per person respectively. of the workforce across operations, 2012). At each of these sites, at least one of social partnership based on the training centres, and to select external In-house training ● Mining IT centre The average hours of training for all other during 2013/14 we established the employee (with a maximum of nine) sits following principles: training providers more carefully; ● Polymetal in-house regional centres employees increased from 111 to 139, Polymetal Human Resources Committee, on a Labour Relations Commission whose main responsibility is to plan staff (LRC), a vehicle for discussing work• equality of the parties; • to continue our collaboration with ● Distance learning programme reflecting the good work done in rotations and fill key positions within the related queries and concerns between leading universities to attract talented ● Outsourced training centers this area. • consideration of mutual interests Company. Rotations into these positions employer and employees. young students to the Company via when developing, adopting and are based on candidates’ performance targeted internships; Talent pool (number of employees) In 2013, for the first time, students implementing decisions relating underwent training at our new and qualifications, as determined by As well as meetings of the LRCs and to Polymetal operations; • to develop training for specific roles training centre in Magadan, while the Committee. Previously this process Workers’ Councils, we have initiated a where ‘skills bottlenecks’ have been had not been formalised; now we are system of formal feedback sessions • strict observance of local social our St. Petersburg training centre identified, e.g. Processing Plant able to manage and plan rotations (taking place at least twice a year), during and labour regulations; and 41 expanded its pool of training programmes Superintendent, Chief Engineer 30 from 11 in 2012 to 31 in 2014. We also in line with stakeholders’ views and which employees can provide feedback • constructive dialogue between social and Head of Electric and 32 expectations, and in a way that best to senior management on any issues of made staff assessments more targeted, partners on all social and labour issues. Mechanical Service; meaning all employees enrolled in the meets the operational and commercial concern. Employees can direct questions needs of the Company. and comments via five channels: they can • to further develop employee feedback Polymetal Talent Pool now undergo In line with these principles, we provide address enquiries to their line managers, via new channels with a view to 27 evaluations based on their professional timely communication of information on through public or personal meetings, improving our Internal Corporate 21 20 merits and receive individual development changes in working conditions and other through ‘Suggestions and Questions’ Portal; and plans based on their training needs. significant events. Our policy on notice boxes or directly via email or telephone. periods, for example, is clearly • to maintain existing levels of Elsewhere, we continued to hold our communicated to all employees, employee turnover. 2012 2013 2014 annual scientific and industrial conference as follows in the table below. ● Senior management ● Qualified professionals for our young professionals. In 2014, the conference was held for the first time in Employee turnover (%) three separate regions simultaneously – Magadan, Khabarovsk and Ekaterinburg. Now, more of our young professionals 21.8 have the opportunity to articulate and Key employment terms and notice periods 19.6 explore their research interests and, 19.2 in some cases, pursue career Period of notice in accordance with the Period of notice in accordance with 17.8 development opportunities. legislation of the Russian Federation the legislation of the Republic of The base of the employee notice and the Collective Agreement Kazakhstan and the Collective Agreement Changes in the terms of the employment In written form at least two months ahead In written form at least one month ahead contract determined by the parties due to changes of organisational or operational working conditions 11.4 Introduction of/changes in/review At least two months before they come At least one month before they come of worktime standards into effect into effect 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Upcoming dismissal due to staff redundancy In written form at least two months ahead In written form at least one month ahead (Company’s liquidation) of dismissal 36 Sustainability Report 2013/2014 Polymetal International plc Sustainability Report 2013/2014 Polymetal International plc 37 Overview Environment Employees Communities Economic GRI G4 index Case study Developing the next generation: the Polymetal Talent Pool The Polymetal Talent Pool is our primary Polymetal’s bespoke evaluation system Talent Pool snapshot mechanism for promoting in-house is based on a 360 degree assessment, personnel and developing the next therefore it gives the Company a In 2013, we assessed all employees in generation of skilled managers. complete perspective of candidates’ the Polymetal Talent Pool. Like his fellow qualities and potential by drawing on Talent Pool members, Sergey Zakharov The Talent Pool includes two lists: multiple peer opinions and assessments. scored highly in the assessment. At the one drafted by the Group CEO, which Feeding into the Talent Pool selection time, Sergey worked as the Head of features top manager roles in all Group process, 360 degree assessment the Technical Planning Department in subsidiaries, from director to plant makes candidate selection more Khakanja but was on the waiting list superintendent (see the chart below); fair and democratic and avoids for the role of Chief Engineer. Before long this role became available in Case study and another drafted by managing any risk of promotion based on directors, featuring positions such personal preferences. Omolon, and due to his high Talent as chief engineer, chief geologist and chief surveyor. Once assessments are made and probable roles allocated, we devise Pool assessment score, Sergey was promoted into the position. Polymetal’s Every January we conduct employee evaluations based on staff interview results and recommendations made by personal development plans which identify the training and education courses an individual requires in order new Mining IT Centre Company directors and chief engineers. to fulfil their professional potential. Following these evaluations, we draw Mentoring is also a key part of the up a list of potential candidates for the process, with each candidate allocated positions identified in the Talent Pool, two coaches – one from an operating Today we have many candidates on also adding the names of winners of the mine and one from a local (regional) the Talent Pool list – many more than Polymetal annual scientific and industrial branch of Polymetal Management. It is no secret that our people are one of developed our own digital training we ever expected. This means we our most important assets. They drive the hub – the Mining IT Centre. The Centre conferences for young professionals. These coaches create individual annual have many employees who are rated development programmes and review success of our business and Polymetal’s enables us to train our people more highly by their colleagues. The Talent management tries wherever possible effectively in all internal IT processes, Nowadays, there are more than them each month in order to assess a Pool has made them more visible to retain its key personnel in all areas. systems and software, and to explore 30 different courses covering candidate’s progress and achievements. and will help them to build their own However, in order to leverage our training opportunities that can meet their accounting, exploration, engineering career paths.” people’s accumulated experience individual needs. As a result of these and processes such as open-pit and capabilities for the benefit of the developments, in the two years to 2014 mining, underground mining, drilling Larissa Krutaya Company, we need to provide regular we have transitioned to a new level of and blasting. These are taught by our Head of Recruiting and tailored training and development. employee training and knowledgein-house consultants and instructor, sharing across the Company. and new programs can be created One area where training is especially through the Mining IT Centre to meet Appointments to top-level vacancies critical is IT. At Polymetal we use a variety The first Mining IT Centre program individual training requirements. (%) of computer programs and electronic was designed to educate engineers It’s a very responsive system.” 11 13 documentation to make our business to use Data-Mine software. Since then, 29 processes fast and effective and to help courses covering accounting, exploration, Konstantin Bortsov 61 66 in the design of mining projects. Our engineering and production processes Head of Mining IT Centre 61 people need to become proficient with have been organised to provide training the specialised software if they want to all personnel and help us develop to become truly integrated into the genuine breadth of expertise across Company. Rather than relying on external the Company. 28 training to meet this need, in 2012 we 22 10 2012 2013 2014 ● External recruiting ● In-house promotions ● In-house appointments from the Talent Pool 38 Sustainability Report 2013/2014 Polymetal International plc Sustainability Report 2013/2014 Polymetal International plc 39 Overview Environment Employees Communities Economic GRI G4 index Health and safety Dedicated to improving our performance and systems GRI G4-24 Protecting the health and safety of our employees is a major priority We know, of course, that mining is a dangerous operation. Our people work As part of our commitment in this area, we comply with the health and safety Risk assessment The assessment and management of risk for Polymetal. We care deeply about our people; they are part of the in challenging conditions and remote locations where it can be difficult to legislation of the states and regions where we operate, and we meet all relevant is a core component of our approach to health and safety. Across all our facilities, Polymetal family and we are committed to keeping them safe and well enforce stringent safety procedures. However, each year, as our operations international requirements. Indeed, our Occupational Health and Safety we follow a shift-by-shift risk assessment (SRA) model which helps raise employee in everything that they do. They are also our prize asset; their skills and expand, we are learning more about how best to engage our people with health Management System is based on the most up-to-date health and safety awareness of workplace hazards. In particular, SRA is applied to expertise are essential to the future of our business, and maintaining and safety issues and improve internal standards, including ILO-OSH 2001, hazardous areas of our operations, attitudes and behaviours. In this way, we OHSAS 18001 and GOST R such as automobile transport, mines, a healthy workforce is critical to our ongoing productivity and success. are on a path of continual improvement 12.0.007-2009. and plant and power supply. as we strive to create a ‘zero harm’ culture in which everyone takes Polymetal operates 120 production SRA is part of a wider feedback system responsibility for personal safety sites and processes, including open which gives employees an opportunity and wellbeing. and underground mines, geological to participate in risk management across exploration sites, ore processing and the Company. Risks are assessed to Approach explosives depots. Each of these sites determine on-site hazard levels and has its own inherent risks, and in Russia inform appropriate management and Our approach to safety is shaped and Kazakhstan 92 of our production mitigation measures, while employees by our commitment to our people. facilities are deemed ‘hazardous’. are given a ‘map of activities’ to follow Our employees’ wellbeing is our number to ensure their own personal safety. one concern and influences everything Across these facilities – all of which are that we do – it is part of the very fabric fully insured – the main elements of our Once a year, in December, qualitative of our organisation. As such, we are health and safety system are designed risk assessments are made based on the continually looking to improve the way to help us detect, assess and manage probability and potential consequences of we manage risks and enhance the production risks; ensure employee health an undesirable event. The results of these systems we have in place to protect and workplace safety; ensure the safe assessments are then communicated to our employees from harm. use of buildings, other structures and all employees in a number of ways, for equipment; and control all supervision example via information boards, leaflets, With the expansion of our underground measures and conduct internal audits. meetings and seminars. mining operations, our focus on safety has intensified in recent years. Now more During 2013/14, our health and safety We also conduct risk re-assessments than ever it is imperative that we promote focus areas were: related to accidents or incidents that What guidelines excellent safety behaviours and create a have occurred during the year. In Who is responsible? Stakeholders Priorities • training of engineering personnel do we follow? culture that will ensure our people – and 2013/14, our re-assessments revealed our contractors – return home safely. in risk assessment and management; problematic areas within our production Group CEO, Chief Operating UN Global Compact, Employees, specialised Maintain a safe working • early identification of hazards and processes, such as underground mining, Officer, HSE Director, Group Code of Conduct, government agencies, environment for all employees; Our overall approach is set by the workplace risk management based unsafe working environments, threat Head of Health and Safety, Health and Safety Policy, independent auditors prevent workplace accidents Company’s Health and Safety Policy on individual needs of employees; control and individual safety and managing directors, OHSAS 18001, ILO-OSH and work-related illnesses; and underpinned by our Occupational personal responsibility. chief engineers and health 2001 and management comply with relevant Health and Safety Management System • promotion of safety behaviours among and safety managers at our systems relating to labour regulations and standards (OHSMS). We also follow best practice workers; and operations, HR department protection, adhering to and embed responsible safety in our management of industrial risks • a comprehensive analysis of our health national occupational behaviour across every aspect to protect our employees and safeguard and safety system in response to the safety standards of our operations the interests of local populations. recent deterioration of performance (see page 43). As part of this process, Material Aspects we reviewed all workplace incidents and fatalities and took appropriate • Types of injury • Risk assessment actions to eliminate these risks in • Rates of injury and management the future. • Occupational diseases • Emergency preparedness • Lost days, and absenteeism • Total number of workrelated accidents 40 Sustainability Report 2013/2014 Polymetal International plc Sustainability Report 2013/2014 Polymetal International plc 41 Overview Environment Employees Communities Economic GRI G4 index Health and safety Implementing a detailed review and analysis system to improve our record GRI G4-26 Risk management focus areas To enhance our emergency Health and safety performance Performance high voltage equipment. The other two Occupational diseases Through our risk assessments, we know preparedness we: accidents were related to rock mass falls Each of our employees receives – we can successfully identify and assess Workplace accidents in underground mines due to seasonal as a minimum – an annual hospital • continue to refine the Occupational 6 It is with the deepest regret that we report risks across our operations. However, we changes in geomechanical conditions – check to assess their health and Health and Safety Management that during 2013/14 there were four also know we have to improve and review blasters were fatally injured in underground wellbeing. Our in-house medical System currently in place at all fatalities across the Group. There was also our risk management processes and 4 accidents on 15 April 2014 at Mayskoye professionals also continuously monitor our operations; one workplace fatality at a contractor’s identify the most dangerous aspects of 14 and on 16 August 2014 at Dukat. Of the employee health and respond to any our sites; for example, we need to • ensure our operations are licensed for site. We extend our deepest condolences non-fatal injuries that occurred, most health-related issues as and when they 1.90 2 1 1 3 to the families and friends of those who eliminate the risk of rock falls in certain safety activities; 9 10 2 of them were the result of safety rule arise. In certain cases our medical team underground mines and ensure that no 8 2 lost their lives; we share in their loss and violations by employees; 27% resulted will recommend a specific course of • carry out safety audits for all buildings, 6 would like to pay tribute to the hard work one enters dangerous areas without 0.70 0.59 0.59 from rock mass falling, while others treatment or time away from work constructions and technical facilities and commitment of the men who died. protective equipment or clothing. 0.65 involved transport and moving machines. if necessary. used in hazardous procedures; and We are of course covering all related costs We also intend to develop a mentoring • signed mandatory liability insurance 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 and providing extended financial support In response, we have already launched As in 2011 and 2012, there were system, whereby experienced workers agreements to indemnify harm caused ● Minor injuries ● Severe injuries to the families of the deceased. new risk assessment systems and begun no cases of occupational diseases can monitor and assess employee by potential accidents in hazardous ● Fatalities ● LTIFR implementing additional measures to recorded in 2013/14. activities, and share their knowledge and production facilities. Any fatality, accident or injury within our ensure the proper enforcement of existing insights with new staff arrivals. We aim to operations is wholly unacceptable, and safety standards and management New system implementation intensify safety training and ensure that we know we have to do more to reduce procedures. We hired Bureau Veritas and actions everyone is aware not only of safety rules, workplace risks and improve the health to conduct an external audit of the In response to the fatalities in 2013/14, but also of the technological processes and safety performance of our employees Company’s occupational health and we increased the level of training, hazard and equipment in use at the sites they and contractors. In 2015/16, we aim safety management system and received visualisation and use of safety videos work at. In addition, we are developing to return to our previous record of zero recommendations which are being across our operations – particularly for and improving safety behaviours and fatalities across all sites and operations. implemented in our operation processes. those workers in high-risk roles, such ensuring that every employee works Health and safety performance We have carried out detailed assessments as blasters, drifters and timber-men. according to our shift-by-shift risk In 2013/14, there were additional of the most dangerous workplaces, and Company statistics assessment system. 18 non-fatal accidents in total across established personal control over the We also implemented a range of new 2014 2013 2012 2011 the Polymetal Group. Of these, four were implementation of additional safety safety measures and actions designed Finally, we are aware that we need to Total accidents 11 11 11 11 severe and 14 minor. Again, this level measures. Polymetal aims to increase to enhance our existing Occupational review and change the classification of – fatal 3 1 0 0 of injury is deeply concerning and we the importance of the shift-time risk Health and Safety Management System. threats at production sites, and ensure are committing significant resources assessment system and has launched These actions included: Incidents 1 0 0 2 to ensure there is no repeat of such that employees and subcontractors are an electronic three-stage control system Occurrences 25 24 20 15 incidents in the future. • updating our OHSMS policy able to correctly classify and respond (see case studies on pages 46-47). and objectives; to these threats. LTIFR 0.65 0.59 0.59 0.70 Analysis and response We are also taking further action to extend • fine-tuning underground Emergency preparedness In order to understand why our safety personal safety and risk awareness mining technology; FIFR 0.18 0.06 0 0 performance declined in 2013/14 and As part of our commitment to health and across our operating mines, and devising to inform a rapid and effective response, • carrying out a comprehensive safety, we aim to ensure we are prepared corrective and preventative measures Contractor statistics we carried out an in-depth analysis analysis of all work-related injuries for any emergency that may pose a threat in relation to each specific accident. of all workplace accidents in this period. and their causes; to the wellbeing of our people. 2014 2013 2012 2011 Polymetal continuously monitors Total accidents 7 7 4 NA employees’ disciplinary procedures • conducting a rigorous assessment We conduct training and simulated This analysis shows that the rise in the and reviews the safety performance of our OHSMS to identify inefficiencies emergency events at least once a year – fatal 1 0 1 NA number of workplace accidents was of the technical staff at the most and weak points; at each of our 92 hazardous production Occurrences 13 22 22 NA partially attributable to the increased problematic operations. scope of underground mining at our • an external OHSMS audit by facilities. At the most hazardous sites we operations in complex geotechnical Bureau Veritas; conduct these sessions more often, as LTIFR 1.4 1.2 0.8 NA One of our main corporate KPIs is the frequently as once per month. environments. Of the fatalities that ongoing reduction of our Lost Time • appointing new personnel to oversee FIFR 0.2 0 0.2 NA occurred during 2013/14, two were Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) and the health and safety at certain mine Our emergency preparedness measures the result of safety rule violations during achievement of a zero Fatal Injury sites; and Definition of health anf safety terms are compliant with the legal obligations Accident: an unfortunate event that occurs in the course of work, on the way to or from work, or in a Company vehicle, blasting and electrical operations. Frequency Rate (FIFR). Improving our During a blast on 6 November 2013 a • launching an upgraded shift-by-shift and requirements of the countries in which leads to mental or physical harm. performance in this area is our number blaster was fatally injured by a piece of risk assessment system. which we operate. At each of our facilities Incident: an event that gives rise to an accident, or has the potential to lead to an accident (for example, an unexpected explosion and/or the release of dangerous substances). one priority and we are currently we have developed Accident Prevention rock at the Ozerny mine (Khakanja hub). refocusing our efforts to ensure we return Occurrence: a failure, near miss or dangerous event. plans in collaboration with local LTIFR: Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate per one million hours worked. On 19 February 2014, an electrician was to the zero fatalities achieved in 2011/12. emergency authorities. FIFR: Fatal Injury Frequency Rate per one million hours worked. fatally injured when he was working with 42 Sustainability Report 2013/2014 Polymetal International plc Sustainability Report 2013/2014 Polymetal International plc 43 Overview Environment Employees Communities Economic GRI G4 index Health and safety Keeping training and monitoring at the core of our development Progress against goals in 2013/14 Health and safety objectives Analysis of MRA System automation 2015-2017 To rigorously analyse MRA results To automate the planning, reporting In our last Sustainability Report, we set our health and safety priorities for 2013-15. and devise appropriate and impactful and analysis of each business To help improve our overall health and measures in response to any unit’s health and safety control safety performance, last year we inefficiencies or weak points revealed results, and to implement the We said… We did… developed a new Health and Safety Industrial Safety Control and Policy for the Group and set a range Risk reduction Management Programme We would enhance our training capabilities by: To achieve these targets, we: of associated objectives, as follows: To reduce the level of most significant across all of our operations risks that caused injury in the period • providing full-time training on risk management; • continued to prioritise training as one our main health Rock-fall risk isolation 2011-2014, and to ensure that Extending Occupational Health and safety objectives and a core aspect of our commitment To isolate the risk of rock-fall in monthly injury rates are reduced by and Safety Management System • providing compulsory education in distance learning to employees; underground environments, and to 10% against average quarterly To extend our Occupational Health mode; and prevent injuries caused by this risk. indicators from the same period. and Safety Management System to • continued to tailor training to identified areas of need • building a knowledge base with universal unlimited access all production processes and work and exceeded the mandatory minimum hours of training for all employees. Monthly risk assessments performed by Polymetal employees required by law; To create conditions for our and by contractors on our premises. • extended the amount and scope of training information employees that promote safe and materials, including related documents in our corporate behaviour, and to ensure that software for in-house professional training; employees working in the most hazardous environments undergo • developed a special online distance learning course monthly risks assessments (MRA). on health and safety available for each employee; • conducted benchmarking analysis of best practices in health and safety and submitted it to engineers and senior staff; and • rolled out additional training on risk management to 60% of the engineers and technical management in each operation. We would enhance our visualisation capabilities by: To achieve these targets, we: • developing scenarios for posters and videos; and • conducted zoning in almost all industrial buildings and facilities, indicating ‘dangerous’, ‘working’ and ‘safe’ zones • reviewing, classifying and standardising by red, yellow and green lines respectively; all visualisation sources. • updated health and safety materials and started broadcasting health and safety videos on TV screens and monitors in our production sites and public locations; and • distributed animated health and safety messages and presentations throughout our facilities. We would enhance our automation capabilities by: To achieve these targets, we: • automating production control, reporting and analysis; and • launched a pilot Health and Safety Management and Control System. The system was designed by our professionals and • using software to report on safety and record accidents – registers production control results in electronic format; and replacing paper registers. • gave all engineers, technical managers and supervisors access to the Control System, enabling us to collect and quickly analyse data obtained in audits, and to make decisions, carry out corrective and preventive measures and monitor their implementation. 44 Sustainability Report 2013/2014 Polymetal International plc Sustainability Report 2013/2014 Polymetal International plc 45 Overview Environment Employees Communities Economic GRI G4 index Case study Employee-led risk assessments: creating ownership, increasing responsibility As part of our commitment to health and Before beginning their shifts, employees Our new employee-led risk assessment safety, Polymetal has introduced an are now asked to assess working program supports our overall aim innovative new approach to workplace conditions and determine whether or of improving conditions in line with risk assessments, whereby employees not they are safe. As part of this process, employees’ needs and expectations, and themselves take responsibility for risk we have developed a computer program providing a safer and more comfortable analysis and reporting. We believe that by which requires employees to fill in a working environment across all our empowering our people in this way, their digital record book before they begin their operations. It will also help us further heightened sense of ownership and work. The system was first piloted at the reduce our Lost Time Injury Frequency awareness will lead to improvements in Dukat plant and, based on its success Rate, and achieve our number one safety behaviours and conditions. there, was subsequently rolled out across priority of achieving zero fatalities. all Polymetal operating mines. Case study This approach involves rigorous analysis Health and safety of safety data and reports provided by By filling in the electronic record book, the Accident Investigation Commission employees are able to contribute to (AIC). Studying the AIC’s information, we health and safety by recording potential The core principle of successful health discovered that 80% of the injuries that hazards and making suggestions for ‘super e-assistant’ and safety management is individual occurred across our operations in 2013 improvements. Moreover, supervisors risk assessment of working conditions. were the result of unsafe behaviour have direct access to the record book; Our major objective is to promote and carelessness on the part of our this enables them to respond quickly shift-by-shift risk assessment and employees. Around 20% were caused to any problems and manage any risks involve every employee in health by poor preparedness and supervision before a shift begins. In 2010 we introduced a new electronic Today, there are more than 200 employees and safety management.” system designed to monitor safety using the program at Voro, with user within the workplace. Our new system, therefore, aims to create a culture of violations. The system was piloted at Voro, numbers increasing daily across our Vitaly Savchenko and by the end of 2014 had been rolled other regions and facilities. Users can This system saves time and lives. safety by encouraging employees Polymetal COO Managers do not need to leave their to take responsibility for their actions out across the rest of our operations, share their experience with others and making our safety monitoring processes report violations. Moreover, if a specific offices every day to check paper and workplace safety. record books; instead, they now use more simple, transparent and effective. violation is not eliminated, it becomes a risk and is automatically brought the program to access data, see the Previously, all monitoring information was to the attention of the management. trends and plan work effectively.” recorded on paper, creating a heavy flow of hard-copy data. Now, however, the Our aim is to bring all data generated by Konstantin Savchuk new electronic system – with its specially users into one large database, providing Head of Health and Safety at Polymetal designed software – has streamlined and a vital reference bank for the future. We simplified this process. We developed are also developing additional software a Company-wide course to bring all and mechanisms to help improve the relevant staff up to speed with the new process of data capture and input. Once technology and procedures, and the this has been achieved, we will design system implementation was approved algorithms based on historical violation by the Russian State Technical Agency. data to help prevent future incidents. With three levels of control, the new system allows workers, managers and senior staff to obtain access to all types of information on violations, their causes and consequences, within five minutes of any incident. What’s more, the system is entirely protected against loss of data. 46 Sustainability Report 2013/2014 Polymetal International plc Sustainability Report 2013/2014 Polymetal International plc 47 Overview Environment Employees Communities Economic GRI G4 index Communities Building strong relationships 30 with local communities meetings, public gatherings and hearings for local communities and indigenous people were held during 2013/14 GRI G4-24 GRI G4-27 Our aim is to have a positive impact on local communities in the We interact with local people and community groups in different ways. activities expand, so do our responsibilities to those people whose institutions and public organisations to ensure all programmes can be regions where we operate. We believe in building strong relationships As an employer, we provide local employment opportunities across all our lives we touch. In our approach we also follow several international standards and delivered in a way that derives maximum benefit for local communities. with local people and ensuring that our business activities enhance sites and facilities. We commission and use local services, helping to stimulate conventions, including the UN Global Compact and the UN Declaration Investing in communities their quality of life. local economies and supply chains. And we actively invest in local infrastructure, on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples. We believe that long-term sustainable health, education and culture, always Our ultimate aim in this area is to development is underpinned by the looking to promote and protect achieve a balance between Polymetal’s effective management of social community interests. commercial interests and the interests investment. Our social investment of the communities we engage with. initiatives are guided by industry While our operations also generate We do this by delivering social benchmarks and standards and extend to waste materials and emissions, we have investment, expanding local infrastructure all territories where we conduct exploration robust measures in place to manage and developing related industries to and production activities. In the last five and mitigate these impacts. Indeed, we stimulate economic development. years, the scope of our social investments go beyond our regulatory obligations to We pay regional taxes and consume has increased, with a total of US$24 million ensure our operations do not adversely regional services and resources, while invested in local projects between 2010 affect local communities or environments. also training and recruiting local and 2014. In 2015, we plan to spend professionals and helping to address US$5.5 million on social support and Approach key social issues. territorial development programmes. We know that our business cannot Additionally, each year we carry out Internally, we manage our social operate without licence from local a range of initiatives as part of local investments rigorously and effectively. communities and authorities. Establishing community cooperation agreements. We follow the principles set out in our goodwill, trust and understanding locally In 2013/14, we had 18 of these Community Relationship Management is central to our corporate ethos and agreements in place, up from 11 in 2010. System, which comprises our Corporate approach, and we are passionate about Code, our Social and Charitable building strong links in the regions where Regional teams Investments Policy, our Public Cooperation we work. In each region, our community Regulation and other corporate programmes are implemented by procedures. These policies cover, inter alia, Geographically, the scope of dedicated teams. These teams ensure the mandatory consultation of local people our operational activities is vast. regular cooperation with local in the development of Company operations, What guidelines It encompasses the Magadan Region, communities, monitor and coordinate and the methods of dialogue required to Who is responsible? Stakeholders Priorities do we follow? Khabarovsk Territory, the Chukotka feedback, and submit social investment carry out meaningful impact assessments. Autonomous Territory, Northern Urals and proposals to senior management. They also promote transparency by Group CEO, PR Director, UN Global Compact, Employees, national Expand the range of Kazakhstan, and is expanding every year enabling public access to information Technical Council, subsidiary Group Code of Conduct, government, local government, community partnership in these areas. This means that our When we first invest in a new mining regarding our investment activities. managing directors working Policy on Social Investment, specialist government agreements, improve the interactions with local populations are project, our corporate office evaluates the with heads of Finance, Community Relationship agencies, local communities, quality of life for communities, widespread and diverse. potential impact of our operations in the Communications, Management System indigenous peoples groups improve communication designated area. They assess the indirect Operations and HR and other NGOs and co-operation with Our approach to these interactions economic impacts and devise long-term communities, promote is shaped by our firm commitment to strategies based on these initial sports and cultural activities corporate responsibility. We believe assessments. They also enter into strongly that as our influence and agreements with local governments, Material Aspects • Local communities • Formal agreements with • Public policy indigenous people and • Investment local communities • Development and impact of • Grievance mechanisms infrastructure investments for impacts on society • Rights of indigenous people • Resettlement 48 Sustainability Report 2013/2014 Polymetal International plc Sustainability Report 2013/2014 Polymetal International plc 49 Overview Environment Employees Communities Economic GRI G4 index Communities Investing in all areas of local communities’ lives GRI G4-24; G4-26; G4-27 GRI G4-27 Community investment priorities Community engagement One of our major contributions to social When it comes to health, we focus Infrastructure Community investments in 2013/14 (%) Our investment priorities are determined The success of our communities development throughout the regions is on delivering high-quality medical aid, Investment in infrastructure is part of through open dialogue with local programme is built upon open dialogue the timely payment of national and local healthcare and disease prevention – our commitment to local communities. communities. As part of this process, and engagement. Since 2008 we have taxes. Over the last four years, Polymetal particularly in remote and underdeveloped By improving roads, bridges and urban we carry out in-depth analysis of local been developing feedback systems has paid US$1.4 billion in taxes, and in areas. Each year we provide investment environments, we help to create jobs and people’s needs and work with them to designed to elicit local people’s opinions 2013/14 we paid US$0.68 billion for taxes for the renovation of healthcare facilities enhance the attractiveness of small towns understand how social investment could and ideas and review their needs. due in the territories where we operate. and the purchase of medical equipment. and villages, contributing to their overall best bring positive change to their lives. Through annual public meetings, During 2013/14 we: socio-economic development. Together, we identify the most pressing individual meetings, questionnaires and On the social investment side, we have • helped to repair the medical clinic in local issues and define the scope of the polls, we engage local stakeholders to a dedicated unit which monitors the In 2013/14, we invested around the village of Dukat, Magadan Region; support required. assess the effectiveness of our efforts progress of individual projects and US$1 million in infrastructure projects. during the previous 12 months, and to analyses the social and economic • purchased medical equipment for During this period we: Investments and related targets identify our sustainability goals for the impacts of our activities. This work is Srednekansk central hospital, • invested US$63 thousand in the water are approved annually by Polymetal year ahead. carried out in collaboration with regional Magadan Region; supply system in Vorontsovka village, management and the Board of Directors. administrations and organisations to ● Sport 43 • offered annual funding for doctors who Sverdlovsk Region. With the new Decisions are made based on a project’s We also provide public access to ensure our assessments incorporate local ● Education 25 come to work in the Herpuchi village waterworks now supplying water potential to improve the quality of life for information about our activities and insight and opinion. As a result of these hospital in the Polina Osipenko district, to 50 local households, we plan to local people, with focus on the operations, using local media outlets and ● Cultural heritage and traditions 14 efforts, we are able to respond to Khabarovsk Territory; and expand the system further in 2015/16; following areas: communication boards installed in public ● Infrastructure in communities 9 changing situations and adjust fund areas. We encourage and enable local ● IMN support 6 allocations as required. • provided ongoing support for cancer • repaired two bridges along the road • healthcare and education; communities to contact us via email or ● Health 3 charity AdVita, which helps to treat that links the Herpuchi and Oglongi • infrastructure; telephone, and organise field visits and Key performance and children with cancer in St. Petersburg. villages in the Polina Osipenko district, consultations in remote areas of Russia More than US$345 thousand donated in line with social agreements made • sport and lifestyle; and Kazakhstan. These mechanisms investment areas in the past five years was spent with local residents; • culture and creative potential; mean we can respond quickly to local Impact assessment on purchasing medicines and Health and education • financed and constructed people’s concerns and ensure our We understand the importance of the other materials. • Indigenous Minorities of the We believe that access to healthcare 103 kilometres of roads connecting programmes are meeting their needs indirect impacts of our operations on North (IMN); and and education is essential to the quality small villages and settlements with the and expectations. local communities. Each year we commit We are also aware that many regional of life of local communities. Health and ‘mainland’ in the Madagan Region; • environmental protection. considerable resources to assessing educational institutions require building education underpin the sustainable thanks to the new road, the region is In 2013/14 we received over 100 enquiries these impacts and ensuring that our upgrades and facilities improvements. development of villages, cities and now accessible all year round, enabling The investments themselves are from local communities, mostly related to activities promote social and economic During 2013/14 we: regions, helping to attract new residents the free movement of people, food and divided into commercial and in-kind employment opportunities, development wellbeing among local communities. and enhance local prospects and • renovated 17 kindergartens and eight medicines; and donations. In 2013/14, our in-kind plans, impact on local quality of life, and opportunities. For this reason, health During 2013/14, our assessments schools located in the Magadan investments included: requests for support for cultural, sporting and education projects are among • launched the Well-Lit Village revealed that there were no negative Region, Sverdlovsk Region, Khabarovsk and environmental initiatives. the investment priorities within our Programme in Khabarovsk Territory to • humanitarian aid to reindeer herders impacts arising from our operations Territory and Chukotka, and in the communities programme. help improve public lighting in remote in the Chaun District of Chukotka in Russia and Kazakhstan. Meanwhile, Kostanay Region of Kazakhstan; During this period, we held over villages; the investment is expected to and Okhotsk District of Khabarovsk our indirect positive impacts included: 30 meetings, public gatherings and Throughout 2013/14, we implemented • enabled 40 children to attend a exceed US$100 thousand. Territory, with donations including food, hearings for local communities and • tax payments; over 60 projects aimed at supporting and refurbished kindergarten in fuel, lubricants, firewood, gas stoves indigenous people across the regions developing healthcare and education. This Taranovskoye village, Kostanay Region, and medicines; • support of infrastructure and where we operate. We also organised included the renovation of 28 healthcare which was repaired and reconstructed • delivery of construction materials 28 site visits for local community auxiliary industries; through Polymetal funding; and and education institutions. In total, we and medical equipment to remote representatives and members of the • environmental protection and invested over US$1.61 million in this area • continued construction work communities and indigenous public. Our annual community and ecological projects; in 2013 and over US$1.34 million in 2014. at the Voskhod summer camp in minorities in the Magadan Region stakeholder surveys showed that people • regional population increase Krasnoturinsk, Sverdlovsk Region, and Khabarovsk Territory; and view our work positively, with local due to spread of industry; which will enable an additional 200 communities giving our social projects • infrastructure projects in remote areas, children to spend their summers here. a score of 4.87 out of 5. The feedback • local employment opportunities; and including funding for road and bridge Since 2012 Polymetal has been helping we received throughout the year has been construction, village landscaping and • social investment and with the construction of new facilities at incorporated into our plans for 2015/16. flood protection. community support. Voskhod in response to local requests. 50 Sustainability Report 2013/2014 Polymetal International plc Sustainability Report 2013/2014 Polymetal International plc 51 Overview Environment Employees Communities Economic GRI G4 index Communities A specific focus on sports, 8 education and culture agreements and cooperation programmes with indigenous communities GRI G4-27 GRI G4-27 Sport and lifestyle • constructed a school stadium and Indigenous Minorities In 2013/14, we invested US$0.6 million Environmental protection Letter from IMNs related to our support Promoting community health and installed training equipment at Amursk; of the North (IMN) in initiatives designed to support In our work, and at every level of our for the preservation of IMN cultural wellbeing through sport and lifestyle the stadium, which took two years to We are committed to improving the indigenous people. Specifically, we: organisation, we are committed to heritage, while educational institutions initiatives is another of our social build, is now the largest and best quality of life of indigenous peoples in building a robust culture of environmental wrote to express their thanks for our • provided fuel, food and investment priorities. In particular, equipped in the Amur Region. Khabarovsk Territory, the Magadan responsibility. In 2013/14 we implemented assistance in the purchase of modern transportation to remote we focus on providing support for Region and Chukotka. The support a number of long-term projects designed equipment and investment in building settlements and communities; mass sporting activities and youth Culture and creative potential programmes in which we participate are to raise environmental awareness and refurbishments. Meanwhile, local sports programmes. Traditionally, Polymetal has always developed in close collaboration with • supported festivals and events which promote environmental protection. In governments wrote to acknowledge provided support for cultural events and community representatives. They are facilitate knowledge sharing and the various regions, our activities under our fruitful cooperation, social In 2013/14, we spent over US$4.5 million helped local residents to explore their designed to enable indigenous people’s preservation of traditional ways of life; the ‘A Healthy Environment is Everyone’s partnerships and overall contribution in this area. Specifically, we: creative potential and identity. Our work integration into the modern socioBusiness’ programme included: to regional development. • helped reindeer brigades in the in this area involves promoting and economic landscape while preserving • community clean-up days and tree • repaired 18 sports facilities, providing Chukotka Autonomous Territory preserving local history, ways of life and their cultural identity. As part of this work, planting events engaging employees improved practice areas and equipment and Khabarovsk Territory; Looking ahead to 2015/16, traditions, including arts, crafts and other we protect employment rights for and local communities; for amateur teams and local residents; leisure activities. We organise local indigenous people and other local • helped to establish an annual award our objectives are to: • equipped nine sports grounds; holidays and provide funding for music community members. We also offer to promote traditional reindeer • a children’s expedition to the ‘Naturalist’ groups, ethnographic museums and employment opportunities to indigenous husbandry; and ecological centre on the island of Identify any additional stakeholders, • supported 10 sports events and Krokhaleva, Khabarovsk Territory; establish stakeholder relations and native language programmes. people, ensuring fair selection criteria provided funding for four youth • supported the Amur Region assess stakeholder needs. based on qualifications and skills. • open days for students at the Amursk sports teams; Indigenous People Youth Forum in In 2013/14, we invested US$1.5 million POX plant’s environmental monitoring Khabarovsk Territory, the aim of which Implement a stakeholder feedback • constructed a sports stadium in the in cultural and creative initiatives. To assess the needs of indigenous laboratory; and is to engage young people with system and carry out regular surveys village of Ayan, Khabarovsk Territory, Specifically, we: people, we consult with representatives preserving the traditions and • environmental quizzes for youngsters. in new business areas. where local people can now play of the Association of Indigenous Peoples, • funded the purchase of equipment customs of indigenous peoples. football, volleyball, basketball social and spiritual leaders, veterans’ for 18 cultural institutions; We also helped establish and provided Develop social partnership and hockey; councils, local authorities and other • held over 20 creative, cultural and non-profit organisations focused on During 2013/14, we continued to observe support for the environmental group at programmes, sign cooperation • reconstructed a ski lodge in the rights of indigenous peoples as part the Vorontsovka village school in the agreements and implement social educational competitions and events cultural protection. These assessments Mayskoye village, Taranovsky District, of our commitment to building strong Sverdlovsk Region, which organised projects in our new territories. for talented youngsters; are conducted via annual meetings and Kazakhstan, where around 40 children relationships, trust and understanding village clean-ups and tree planting. consultations, during which social have ski classes; the new, well• supported 10 national folk dance with local communities. To reinforce Enhance the quality of monitoring development plans and investments equipped facilities enable athletes and song groups – our involvement these efforts, we also continued to Community feedback of our social programmes. are approved. to train in warmth and comfort; ranged from sewing costumes to comply with the UN Global Compact During 2013/14, Polymetal and its covering travel costs to festivals and and the UN Declaration on the Rights regional subsidiaries received over Develop and regulate additional • supported the Leather Ball MiniThere are currently eight cooperation conferences; and of Indigenous People. Throughout this 70 letters of gratitude. These letters came methods of needs assessment for Football Tournament in Magadan, programmes and agreements in place attracting 600 young participants; • supported indigenous groups taking between Polymetal and indigenous period, there were no recorded instances from a range of stakeholders, including vulnerable groups, including IMN. part in the IX International Treasure communities located near our operations. of complaints or issues relating to land local communities, who thanked us for • hosted the Mini-Football Tournament in tenure or land use, no violations arranging medical drop-ins for remote Build on past success in the of the North Exhibition 2014. To date, none of our operations infringe Amursk; over 1,000 children participated of the rights of minority groups, and towns and villages, providing medical implementation of environmental upon places of traditional land use, cultural in this unique large-scale event; and no displacements and resettlements care for children and assistance to and social projects, drawing on our sites, monuments or protected areas. as a result of our operations. vulnerable people, and for taking an people’s experience from all areas active part in addressing social issues. of the business. Our analysis also shows that, via our various communications channels and Local community organisations outreach programmes, we continued expressed gratitude for our support to keep IMN groups informed of our for creative clubs and the significant activities and operations. We also contributions we made during the year to deployed qualified company professionals sporting clubs and events, as well as for to answer all IMN questions and queries, raising environmental awareness among and responded to requests for fuel, warm young people and providing related storage facilities and essential goods. education and training opportunities. 52 Sustainability Report 2013/2014 Polymetal International plc Sustainability Report 2013/2014 Polymetal International plc 53 Overview Environment Employees Communities Economic GRI G4 index Case study Investing in sporting initiatives Khabarovsk + We develop, promote and support Meanwhile in 2014 its trainees became initiatives in all the regions where capped by the Russian national team we operate, focusing in particular on at the World Championship in Norway. sport opportunities for children and We cannot underestimate the value adolescents. Our goal is to promote In the Magadan Region and Khabarovsk of the financial support provided by health and fitness by providing Territory we provide funding for major Polymetal to junior sports in our town. comprehensive assistance to sports sporting events. These include an I have been working as a trainer for clubs in remote communities in Russia. annual mini-football championship open over 40 years and really appreciate this Case study Kostanay + to teams from schools, orphanages and funding, which is used to purchase kit In the Sverdlovsk Region, we support local neighbourhoods, and a mini-football and equipment, enabling me to focus + Semey several children’s sport clubs and we tournament as part of the nationwide on training. Thanks to Polymetal, our The Kyzyl project azakhstan Russia sponsor an annual hockey tournament in the Urals. We have long-term cooperation agreements in place – since Kozhany Myach project. Each year, over 500 children between the ages of nine and 17 participate in the Kozhany Myach club is still alive and continues to help young members to develop and participate in regional, national 2008, we have been working with local Mongolia tournament, the aim of which is to engage and international tournaments.” New ambulance junior football-and-hockey club, Sputnik, more children and adolescents in regular Oskemen + room helping to improve the club’s equipment sport activities to improve their health Oleg Sveshnikov Auezov and expanding its youth membership and wellbeing. Sputnik football and hockey village from 120 to over 200. Our support has club, Honorary Coach of the New kindergarden led to success: in 2013, Sputnik won the Russian Federation Sverdlovsk Region Bandy (ice hockey) + Ayaguz Championship and claimed bronze North Educational in the Vasteras Tournament in Sweden. China Korea grants to local Kazakhstan communities China South Korea Uzbekistan In October 2014, following the Following the signing of the memorandum, families, and joined East Kazakhstan’s acquisition of Kyzyl, Polymetal signed some of our social projects in the region region-wide charity event, Month of a memorandum of social and economic are already underway. During 2014, we Mercy, to help poor families and cooperation with local authorities funded repairs and improvements to disadvantaged people. in the East Kazakhstan Region. The Auezov’s central park, including tree memorandum sets out key areas of planting and the construction of a hockey cooperation within a long-term social rink. We installed benches in a local partnership, focusing on educational playground and our Company vehicles infrastructure, special programmes helped to clear the streets of snow during for youth at risk, and support for winter. We also provided financial support Reflecting our overall approach to vulnerable people. to the village’s only health care unit, community engagement, the social purchasing a fully-equipped ambulance partnership for the Kyzyl project was As part of the agreement, we will be vehicle and electronic scales and created following in-depth consultation running a number of social investment funding repairs to the medical premises. with local community members. In this programmes in the villages of Auezov In addition, we bought a projector, way, we can be sure that our efforts and Shalabai in the Zharminsky District. screen and a greenhouse for the local in the area will meet the needs and These will include financial support for village school. expectations of local people for the local school, hospital and cultural many years to come.” organisations, assistance to veterans Polymetal also financed the Lekoteka and educational grants for high-school social initiative designed to provide Yuri Ovchinnikov graduates. We will also be supporting vital support to children with mental General Director of Kyzyl national holiday celebrations with a focus disabilities. We participated in the national on sports activities and events for local programme, A Road to School, providing people and employees. stationery for 103 children from poor 54 Sustainability Report 2013/2014 Polymetal International plc Sustainability Report 2013/2014 Polymetal International plc 55 Overview Environment Employees Communities Economic GRI G4 index Economic Ensuring economic success and sustainability GRI G4-24 GRI G4-22 Achieving economic success is a fundamental part of how we ensure The economic benefits generated by the Group also form a vital aspect of what Tax payments Russian or Kazakh communities, we aim to create local value and improve people’s the long-term sustainability of our business. Indeed, by generating we do and how we work. As a dynamic and progressive business, our simple Our Group makes a direct positive impact to local communities through the livelihoods and lives. In our experience, senior management also operates more profits and delivering a strong financial performance each year, objective is to deliver sustainable value to our stakeholders through commitment payment of taxes to Russian and Kazakh state and local authorities. In 2013/14, effectively when a common language is spoken. Through the use of Talent we help to safeguard the future of the Company and put in place to our strategy, our business model and our culture of excellence. We also our tax payments across the Group amounted to US$213 million in 2014 Pool, our internal mechanism for developing the next generation of skilled the foundations we need to operate for many years to come. contribute significantly to the economic and US$181 million in 2013, compared to US$389 million in 20121. These payments managers (see pages 35, 36 and 38 development of the regions where for more information), we ensure that we operate, making ongoing social include mandatory contributions to state management-level positions are filled investments to help improve living social funds, including Pension Funds of by locals at the majority of our sites. standards, infrastructure and facilities. the Russian Federation and Kazakhstan. 2014 2013 2012 Through our tax contributions we Our approach continue to create significant value Locals (Russian and in the regions where we operate. Kazakh citizens) (%) 94.1 94.6 95.6 Delivering long-term value for shareholders, employees, partners These contributions, alongside our Other citizens (%) 5.9 5.4 4.4 and other stakeholders goes to the heart dividend payments, ensure we can of our business model. To deliver value balance value allocation between At our major operational sites, our we invest significantly in enhancing key stakeholder groups. standard entry-level wages also exceed our operations and developing local regional and industry averages. In 2013, infrastructure – such as roads and our wages exceeded the regional average Local employment and wages by 245%, the regional minimum by bridges – for the wider benefit of local people and their communities. We are committed to creating in-country 1476%, and the industry average by Local economic development, social employment opportunities and hiring 147%. In 2014, these figures were 270%, investment and the provision of from local communities at our major 1532% and 150% respectively. employment opportunities are also operational sites. In 2013, 94.6% of key areas of focus. And more indirectly, our employees were local nationals The regional wage comparisons levels our payment of national and local taxes (Russian or Kazakh, depending on the at our major sites are set out in the significantly contributes to economic location); in 2014, this figure was 94.1%. chart below. progress and prosperity in the regions In recruiting where possible from where we operate. What guidelines Who is responsible? Stakeholders Priorities do we follow? Group CEO, Technical UN Global Compact, UK Employees, national Increase community Council, subsidiary managing Corporate Governance Code, government, local government, investments, maintain all directors working with heads Group Code of Conduct specialist government relevant tax payments, Polymetal’s average salary level in comparison to industry and region levels of Finance, Communications, agencies, local communities, create shareholder value Operations, HR indigenous peoples groups and other NGOs, suppliers and contractors Material Aspects • Economic performance • Indirect economic impact • Market presence • Product responsibility • Procurement practices Magadan Chukotka Khabarovsk Sverdlovsk Kazakhstan Region Territory Territory Region ● Regional minimum ● Polymetal minimum ● Polymetal average 1 In our 2011/12 Sustainability Report, there was a typographical error in the tax figure for 2012. 56 Sustainability Report 2013/2014 Polymetal International plc Sustainability Report 2013/2014 Polymetal International plc 57 Overview Environment Employees Communities Economic GRI G4 index Economic Ensuring economic success and sustainability continued GRI G4-27 Social investments Procurement We also have an internal policy relating to suppliers’ estimations for different Social investments are another core Through the procurement of goods types of material and equipment. As part component of our economic contribution and services, we help to stimulate of this policy, we rigorously assess not in the regions where we operate. In 2013 regional and national supply chains only product quality but also the related and 2014 we invested US$5.3 million and and economies. commercial terms and conditions. Case study US$4.9 million respectively in community We require suppliers to provide legal initiatives, with social payments between Within the Group we operate a Our relations documentation, arbitration history and 2010 and 2014 totalling US$23.9 million. specialised company, Polymetal financial statements; we check all These payments were made in the areas Trading, which provides logistical, supply, references and, for smaller suppliers, of health, education, infrastructure purchasing and maintenance services carry out production site visits and sport, and were formalised in 18 agreements with local authorities and community representatives. to each of the Group’s production companies. It also regulates our Group-wide procurement rules, when required. Product responsibility with local and regional practices and procedures. For more information on our community Polymetal has had no significant fines investment programmes and priorities, At site level, our supply chain expenses for non-compliance with laws and suppliers please see pages 49-53. are divided into two distinct areas: regulations concerning the provision capital expenditure and operating costs. and use of products and services. Suppliers to our capital expenditure programmes (for example, mining equipment and plant infrastructure Social investments (US$m) projects), tend to be large, globallyrecognised manufacturers. This ensures Due the geographical remoteness In this way, each of our operations we can reduce risk while also achieving of our sites and their extreme climactic has adopted its own approach to better price and delivery terms. conditions, our relations with regional procurement. Wherever possible we suppliers are vital for the Company. engage local and regional suppliers; In our approach to procurement, On average, around 50% of our supplier however, specific site requirements and we establish clear criteria for selecting purchases come from within the region supplier availability means goods and our suppliers. Through our recently of operation. In more developed regions, services are sometimes procured from developed evaluation system, we 3.5 such as the Urals, we have a greater centralised sources. Additionally, the also ensure the selection process 6.0 5.3 5.0 choice and diversity of suppliers. complexity of our equipment needs is efficient and transparent. Looking 4.1 In more remote regions, such as Dukat and business processes means that ahead, this system will enable us and Omolon, building strong supply sometimes our supplier options are to build more robust partnerships, chain relationships is absolutely critical, limited. This is particularly the case based on long-term contracts, with while in Chukotka, where all equipment in remote areas, where there may be local and regional suppliers.” Financial highlights (US$m) is delivered by sea during the navigation only one supplier for the materials and 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2014 2013 2012 season, we are less dependent on services we require. We often combine Snezhana Usova regional suppliers. components from different suppliers to Head of Project Procurement, Revenue 1,690 1,707 1,854 broaden our options and optimise our Polymetal Trading Social payments including those Cash operating costs (excluding depreciation, made to employees (US$m) procurement budget. The use of Trading labour costs and mining tax) 587 630 519 Platforms software enables us to find the Wages and salaries; other payments and benefits best supplier solutions and alternatives. 10.5 10.7 for employees 247 304 283 Payments to capital providers 8.7 9.0 – interest 39 36 33 6.5 – dividends 149 125 268 Taxes (excluding payroll taxes included in labour costs) – income tax and excess profit tax 72 40 219 – taxes, other than income tax 22 21 14 – mining tax 110 109 145 – social payments 9 11 11 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Undistributed economic value retained 455 431 362 58 Sustainability Report 2013/2014 Polymetal International plc Sustainability Report 2013/2014 Polymetal International plc 59 Overview Environment Employees Communities Economic GRI G4 index GRI G4 index GRI G4 General standard disclosures GRI G4 General standard disclosures Pages/ External Pages/ External General standard disclosures notes Assurance General standard disclosures notes Assurance Strategy and Analysis G4-20 Report the material aspect boundary within the organisation p. 18-19 – G4-1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker p. 2, 5-6 – G4-20a For each material Aspect, report whether the Aspect is material within the organisation p. 19 – G4-2 Provide a description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities p. 6, 15 – G4-20a If the Aspect is not material for all entities within the organisation (as described in G4-17), p. 18 – Organisation Profile select one of the following two approaches (if applicable) G4-3 Report the name of the organisation p. 6-7 – G4-20a If the Aspect is not material for all entities within the organisation (as described in G4-17), p. 18 – report the list of entities according to the above chosen approach (if applicable) G4-4 Report the primary brands, products, and services p. 6-7 – G4-20a Report any specific limitation regarding the Aspect Boundary within the organisation p. 18 – G4-5 Report the location of the organisation’s headquarters p. 8-9 – G4-21 Report the material aspect boundary outside the organisation p. 18-19 – G4-6 Report the number of countries where the organisation operates, and names of countries where p. 8-9, 18 – either the organisation has significant operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability G4-21a For each material Aspect, report whether the Aspect is material outside of the organisation p. 18 – topics covered in the report G4-21a If the Aspect is material outside of the organisation, identify the entities, groups of entities p. 18 – G4-7 Report the nature of ownership and legal form p. 6-7 – or elements for which the Aspect is material (optional) G4-8 Report the markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types p. 8-9, 16-17 – G4-21a If the Aspect is material outside of the organisation describe the geographical location p. 18 – of customers and beneficiaries) where the Aspect is material for the entities identified (if applicable) G4-9 Report the scale of the organisation p. 6-9 – G4-21a Report any specific limitation regarding the Aspect Boundary outside the organisation p. 18 – G4-10 Report the total number of employees by employment contract and gender p. 33-34 – G4-22 Report the effect of any restatements of information provided in previous reports and the In the footnotes – reasons for such restatements p. 23, 57 G4-11 Report the percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining agreements p. 37 – G4-22a Report the effect of any restatements of information provided in previous reports In the footnote – G4-12 Describe the organisation’s supply chain p. 7 – p. 23 G4-13 Report any significant changes during the reporting period regarding the organisation’s size, structure, p. 12-14 – G4-22a Report the reasons for such restatements In the footnote – ownership, or its supply chain p. 23, 57 G4-14 Report whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the organisation p. 21 – G4-23 Report significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope and Aspect Boundaries p. 3, 10-11, 18-19 – G4-15 List externally developed economic, environmental and social charters, principles, or other initiatives p. 3, 20, 32, 40, – G4-23a Report significant changes from previous reporting periods in the Scope p. 3, 10 – to which the organisation subscribes or which it endorses 48, 56 G4-23a Report significant changes from previous reporting periods in the Aspect Boundaries p. 18-19 – G4-16 List membership of associations (such as industry associations) and national or international p. 51-53 – advocacy organisations Stakeholder Engagement Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries G4-24 Provide a list of stakeholder groups engaged by the organisation p. 16-17, 20-21, 32, – 37, 40, 48, 50, 56 G4-17 List all entities included in the organisation’s consolidated financial statements p. 3, 8-9; – or equivalent documents AR 2014 G4-24a Provide a list of stakeholder groups engaged by the organisation p. 16-17 – www.polymetal G4-25 Report the basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage p. 16-17 – international.com/~/ media/Files/P/ G4-25a Report the basis for identification of stakeholders with whom to engage p. 16-17 – Polymetal/ G4-25a Report the basis for selection of stakeholders with whom to engage p. 16-17 – Attachments/pdf/ news/2015/2015_ G4-26 Report the organisation’s approach to stakeholder engagement p. 16-17 – 03_30_Preliminary_ G4-26a Report the organisation’s approach to stakeholder engagement (if applicable) p. 16-17 – results_FY2014_ final_eng.pdf, Note 3 G4-26a Report the frequency of stakeholder engagement by type p. 16-17 – G4-17a List all entities included in the organisation’s consolidated financial statements As above – G4-26a Report the frequency of stakeholder engagement by stakeholder group p. 21, 37, 42, 50 – or equivalent documents G4-26a Indicate whether any of the engagement was undertaken specifically as part of the report No specific – G4-17b Report whether any entity included in the organisation’s consolidated financial statements As above – preparation process engagement or equivalent documents is not covered by the report was undertaken G4-18 Explain the process for defining the report content and the Aspect Boundaries p. 3, 10-11, 18-19 – G4-27 Report key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement p. 35-37, – 49-53, 58 G4-18a Explain the process for defining the report content p. 3 – G4-27a Report key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement p. 35, 50 – G4-18a Explain the process for defining the Aspect Boundaries p. 10-11, 18-19 – G4-27a Report how the organisation has responded to those key topics and concerns (if applicable) p. 35, 50 – G4-18b Explain how the organisation has implemented the Reporting Principles for Defining Report Content p. 18-19 – G4-27a Report how the organisation has responded to those key topics and concerns through its reporting p. 35, 50 – G4-19 List all the material Aspects identified in the process for defining report content p. 18 – G4-27a Report the stakeholder groups that raised each of the key topics and concerns p. 35, 50 – G4-19a List all the material Aspects identified in the process for defining report content p. 18 – 60 Sustainability Report 2013/2014 Polymetal International plc Sustainability Report 2013/2014 Polymetal International plc 61 Overview Environment Employees Communities Economic GRI G4 index GRI G4 index continued GRI G4 General standard disclosures GRI G4 Specific standard disclosures Pages/ External GRI G4 Pages/ External General standard disclosures notes Assurance Category Code Topic notes Assurance Report Profile Economic G4-28 Reporting period (such as fiscal or calendar year) for information provided p. 3 – Economic performance G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed p. 58 – G4-29 Date of most recent previous report (if any) The Company’s – Market presence G4-EC5 Ratios of standard entry level wage to local minimum wage p. 57 – previous report was at significant locations of operation published in 2013 G4-EC6 Employees hired from the local community at significant locations p. 57 – G4-30 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial etc.) The Company issues – of operation Sustainability Report once in 2 years Indirect economic impacts G4-EC7 Development and impact of infrastructure investments p. 49, 57, 58 – and includes Sustainability Procurement practices G4-EC9 Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on local suppliers p. 58, 59 – performance at significant locations of operation overview in Annual Environment Report each year Materials G4-EN1 Materials used by weight or volume p. 24 – G4-31 Provide the contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents Back cover – of the report G4-EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials p. 24 – G4-32 GRI content index p. 60-64 – Energy G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organisation p. 27 – G4-33 External assurance Not assured – G4-EN5 Energy intensity p. 23, 27 – Governance G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption p. 26, 27 – G4-34 Report the governance structure of the organisation p. 12-13 – G4-EN7 Reductions in energy requirements of products and services p. 27 – G4-35 Process for delegating authority p. 12-13 – Water G4-EN8 Total water withdrawal by source p. 26 – G4-36 Executive-level positions p. 20, 32, 40, – G4-EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water p. 26 – 48, 56 G4-EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused p. 26 – G4-37 Consultation between stakeholders and the highest governance body p. 16-17 – Biodiversity G4-EN11 Operations in protected areas or areas of high biodiversity p. 28 – G4-38 Composition of the highest governance body p. 13 – G4-EN12 Significant impacts on biodiversity p. 28 – G4-39 Report whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer p. 12-13 – G4-MM1 Amount of land disturbed or rehabilitated p. 28 – G4-40 Nomination and selection processes for the highest governance body and its committees p. 13 – Emissions G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions p. 27, 28 – G4-42 Highest governance body’s role in setting purpose, values, and strategy p. 13-15, 21 – G4-EN16 Energy indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions p. 27, 28 – G4-45 Highest governance body’s role in the identification and management of risks p. 15 – G4-EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions p. 27, 28 – G4-49 Highest governance body’s role in evaluating economic, environmental and social performance p. 12-13 – G4-EN18 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity p. 23, 27 – G4-51 Remuneration policies for the highest governance body and senior executives p. 14 – G4-EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions p. 27 – Ethics and Integrity G4-EN21 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions p. 27 – G4-56 Organisation's values, principles, standards, and norms of behaviour p. 3, 11, 14 – Effluents and waste G4-EN22 Total water discharge p. 26 – G4-58 Internal and external mechanisms for reporting concerns about unethical or unlawful behaviour p. 14, 34, 37, 50 – G4-EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method p. 24, 25 – G4-EN24 Total number and volume of significant spills The Company – had no significant spills in 2013/14 G4-EN25 Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste p. 25 – deemed hazardous G4-MM3 Total amounts of overburden, rock, tailings, and sludges p. 24, 25 – Environmental G4-EN29 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary p. 22 – compliance sanctions for non-compliance Overall G4-EN31 Environmental protection expenditures and investments p. 22, 23 – Supplier environmental G4-EN32 New suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria p. 21 – assessment Environmental grievance G4-EN34 Number of grievances about environmental impacts p. 21 – mechanisms 62 Sustainability Report 2013/2014 Polymetal International plc Sustainability Report 2013/2014 Polymetal International plc 63 GRI G4 index continued GRI G4 Specific standard disclosures GRI G4 Pages/ External Category Code Topic notes Assurance Social Labour Practices and Decent Work Employment G4-LA1 Total number and rate of employee turnover p. 36 – Labour/management G4-MM4 Number of strikes and lockouts exceeding one week's duration The Company – relations had no lockouts and strikes in 2013/14 G4-LA4 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes p. 37 – Occupational health G4-LA6 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and number of p. 42 – and safety work-related fatalities Training and education G4-LA9 Average hours of training by subject p. 35 – G4-LA11 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career p. 36 – development reviews Diversity and equal G4-LA12 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees p. 33 – opportunity Equal remuneration for G4-LA13 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men p. 35 – women and men Labour practices G4-LA16 Number of grievances about labour practices filed, addressed, p. 37 – grievance mechanisms and resolved Human Rights and Policies Non-discrimination G4-HR3 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken p. 33 – Freedom of association G4-HR4 Freedom of association and collective bargaining p. 37 – and collective bargaining Indigenous rights G4-HR8 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights p. 52 – of indigenous peoples G4-MM5 Total number of operations taking place in or adjacent to indigenous p. 52 – peoples' territories and formal agreements made Society Local communities G4-SO1 Percentage of operations with implemented local community p. 50 – engagement, impact assessments, and development programmes G4-SO2 Operations with significant actual and potential negative impacts p. 50 – on local communities Anti-corruption G4-SO4 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and procedures p. 34 – G4-SO5 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken p. 34 – Compliance G4-SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number p. 49 – of non-monetary sanctions Grievance mechanisms G4-SO11 Number of grievances about impacts on society filed, addressed, p. 53 – for impacts on society and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms Resettlement G4-MM9 Sites where resettlement took place, the number of households p. 53 – resettled in each, and how their livelihoods were affected in the process Closure planning G4-MM10 Number and percentage of operations with closure plans p. 28-29 – This report is printed on paper which is Product Responsibility FSC certified (the standards for well-managed Compliance G4-PR9 Fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning the p. 58 – forests, considering environment, social and provision and use of products and services economic issues). Designed and produced by Instinctif Partners www.instinctif.com 64 Sustainability Report 2013/2014 Polymetal International plc Polymetal International plc The Esplanade St Helier Jersey JE4 9WG Channel Islands Registered No. 106196 www.polymetalinternational.com
