2014 axtel annual integrated report $ PROFILE Table of contents Letter from the Chief Executive Officer 03 Profile 05 2014 in numbers 06 AXTEL 07 Corporate governance 07 Board of members 08 Executive team 13 Audit and corporate practices comittee 15 Risk management 15 Business ethics and human rights 16 Services 18 Technology 21 Quality management system 22 Sustainability 23 2014 in numbers 24 Sustainability statement 25 Sustainability model 25 Stakeholders 26 Suppliers 30 Community 31 Customer satisfaction 32 AXTEL Foundation 33 Social perspective 36 2014 in numbers 37 Workforce 38 Training 40 Integral and occupational safety 41 Environmental perspective 43 2014 in numbers 44 Energy and air emissions 46 Water 50 Waste management 50 Financial perspective 52 2014 in numbers 53 Outstanding data 54 Comments and analysis of the administration regarding the operating results and financial situation of the issuer 56 Independent auditor’s report 59 Financial information 60 Memory parameters 94 Materiality 94 GRI index 96 Certifications 102 Verification 103 2 / AXTEL 2014 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT PROFILE Letter from the Chief Executive Officer G4-1 Dear friends, In AXTEL we thank you for your trust and preference; for allowing us to be part of your daily life in your homes and businesses. As a commitment to that trust, as we do every year since 2011, we report with transparency our economic, social and environmental performance through our Integrated Report 2014. We are part of a modern and agile industry that is key to society’s progress and development. The challenges we face motivate us to seek innovation and constant growth. The connectivity we bring through our services is a positive factor to our users’ welfare; however, we are also aware that we must provide access to more people, and that our contribution to the development of those communities lacking technology and communications, is imperative. With this goal in mind, we have made available to the Communication and Transport Ministry (SCT) our connection for telecommunications services in lowincome areas where we have our own coverage and infrastructure. This way, we collaborate with municipal and state governments in the development of schools, hospitals and libraries, putting at their disposal our telephone and internet services at lower prices. In the coming years, as part of our commitment to social and rural coverage, we will strengthen our service and technology offer in areas with no telecommunication services supply, to stimulate the development and growth of more communities. The series of challenges and relevant developments in the industry in 2014 definitely have an impact in our performance and future perspectives. During the year’s first semester, the Legislative Branch of government approved a set of secondary laws that define the details about the implementation of the Telecommunications and Economic Competence Reforms passed in 2013, which presents us with new challenges, as well as opportunities. We are still working on our business strategy, focused on sustainability, and we are aligned with our financial plans, with an adequate management AXTEL 2014 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT / 3 PROFILE our appropriate levels of liquidity and strict spending control. ethical foundations. We are strongly committed to behave with integrity in our operations and with our suppliers, clients, authorities and diverse stakeholders with whom we are collaborators and the community. connected. We constantly pursue innovation in our services offer that Our sustainability and corporate practices allow us to be part, for the second year, of the Sustainability Index of the Mexican Seguridad Hogar service, launched in 2014, provides parents Stock Market (BMV), and for the fourth consecutive year we control over the information that their children are looking up in social media, helping them prevent ciberbullying and Nations Global Compact, refferred to human rights, labor, the access to inappropriate content for minors. In 2014, we created 6 thousand 900 jobs that contribute today All of the above represents an excerpt of our performance in with creativity, innovation and talent to the improvement of 2014, which is provided in detail in this document. However, our services offer and customer service. To each one of them, our commitment is not limited to a report, but to a series of we provide a platform for their personal and professional initiatives and projects in which we will keep working jointly development and growth. with our more than 6 thousand collaborators. This way, AXTEL will continue to foster innovative practices for the Additionally, through Fundación AXTEL, we are connected to development of the community to which we offer our services, the communities close to our operations, where we strive to and we are proud to be a part of. have a positive impact to their development through alliances with social oriented institutions. Our goal in 2014 was to participate in projects directed towards the educational and social development of youths at risk. On the other hand, we perform activities that contribute to the mitigation of our operations’ impact on the environment. In 2014, we supported various initiatives to reduce water, energy our GEI Report (Greenhouse Gas) to SEMARNAT, as part Tomás Milmo Santos of our commitment with the reduction of CO2 emissions Chairman of the Board of Directors generated by our operations. and Chief Executive Officer 4 / AXTEL 2014 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT PROFILE PROFILE 2014 in numbers G4-9 / G4-EC7 43 thousand million MXN invested in infrastructure 200 cities with AXTEL 14 thousand connectivity 780 kilometers service of optical fiber network 39 cities on our own AXTEL network One million 511 thousand RGUs (Revenue Generating Units) 179 thousand clients with FTTx technology 330 thousand WiMAX technology Internet subscribers 908 thousand telephone lines in service 94 thousand subscribers for AXTEL TV Service 509 thousand 4 new services broadband Internet integrated in subscribers our portfolio 200 complaints received, addressed and solved 24 new improvement projects launched What did we work on We launched AXTEL X-tremo and AXTEL TV in Ciudad Juárez and Toluca. covering We included HBO GO in AXTEL TV during 2014? an area equivalent to 50 thousand homes enabling our subscribers to enjoy the and businesses, while in Toluca our entire HBO programming online without market potential is that of 242 thousand any additional cost. homes and businesses. We offer new channels in AXTEL TV. Together with HBO Latin America, we The high definition offer includes 27 launched On Demand Video service, new channels, with a total of 51 in the without additional cost for all the HBO/ programming bar in addition to open MAX package subscribers, which makes television channels. Likewise, AXTEL TV AXTEL TV the only operator in Mexico incorporated 17 new signals in standard that has a complete HBO offer, including definition, having a total of 102 channels, 10 high definition channels , HBO GO besides the open television signals and HBO On Demand. broadcasted locally. 6 / AXTEL 2014 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT PROFILE AXTEL G4-3 / G4-4 / G4-5 / G4-6 / G4-56 We are a Mexican telecommunications company that offers world class technology and services. Within our offer, we provide the fastest Internet service in Mexico, broadband, voice, Pay TV Service, and we have an extensive solution portfolio of Information Technology and Communication (TIC) solutions for the corporate and government sector. MISSION VISION Improve communication to enhance life. Innovating communication experiences that bring people closer to what they care the most for. VALUES: SERVICE Excellence and attitude helping others. COMMITMENT COMMUNICATION Honoring promises. Improving the quality of our dialogues at every moment. HONESTY INNOVATION Respecting the truth. Making new ideas a reality: transforming life. If you wish to learn more about our culture, we invite you to visit: www.axtel.mx/sustentabilidad Corporate Governance G4-17 / G4-38 / G4-39 / G4-40 / G4-41 / G4-42 / G4-44 / G4-51 / G4-52 The characteristics of the Board of Directors are: • It is led by Tomás Milmo Santos, President and Chief Corporate Governance at AXTEL is formed by executives Executive Officer. with outstanding business capabilities. Each one of them • It includes 10 proprietary board members and nine participates with management skills, expertise, leadership and alternate directors, out of which two are women. and business knowledge for leading the company towards • The board members are designated by the shareholders a future of growth, profitability and soundness that ensure in the Ordinary General Shareholders’ Meeting and their sustainability in the long term. retribution is established annually by the Shareholders’ Meeting. In 2014 the total compensation paid to company Some of the main functions, duties and obligations of the executives and Board members were approximately $72 Board of Directors are: million MXN. • Managing, identification and mitigation of potential risks • All decisions made by the Board of Directors in regards to which AXTEL is exposed, internally as well as in the to desgination, functions, and responsibilities of the board environment. members are regulated by the Securities Market Law • Overseeing compliance of the current laws including the (LMV), as well as by AXTEL bylaws. Likewise, work is Securities Market Law (LMV in Spanish) adhered to the Securities Market Law following rules and • Establishing and managing the business strategy. guidelines to avoid conflicts of interest. • Approving policies, guidelines and significant operations, • In the selection of our Board Members, their expertise, among which we find loan and warranty policies. abilities and professional prestige are considered and • Designating the General Director their development is assessed at least once a year. • Defining control and internal audit guidelines. • The business address for each officer, director, and • Reviewing accounting policies, financial statements and alternate directors is located in Blvd. Díaz Ordaz km. 3.33 the presentation of the General Shareholders Meeting L 1, Col. Unidad San Pedro, San Pedro Garza García, reports, among others. N.L., Mexico, CP 66215. AXTEL 2014 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT / 7 PROFILE AXTEL Board Members Tomás Milmo Santos Thomas Lorenzo President and CEO Milmo Zambrano (50 years old) (79 years old) Has held the position of Chief Executive Officer of AXTEL since He has been a board member of the Company since July 22, 1994 and Board Member since July 22, 1994. He was also 1994 and was Chairman of the Board of Directors since 1997 appointed Chairman of the Board of Directors in October 2003. through 2003. He was co-founder and President of the Board Prior to joining Axtel, he worked at Carbonífera de San Patricio, of Directors at Grupo Javer, S.A. de C.V. an important housing S.A. de C.V., a mining company in México. In 1988 he was developer in Mexico, and Indicasa, S.A. de C.V. one of the named CEO of that same company, holding this post until 1990, largest aggregate producers in the country. He was Chairman of the Board of Directors and CEO at Carbonífera de San Patricio when he founded and became CEO of Milmar, S.A. de C.V., a S.A. de C.V. and Carbón Industrial, S.A. de C.V. Likewise, he housing development company which developed and sold over was a member of Cemex, S.A. de C.V. until 1996. 10,000 homes from 1990 to 1993. He is a member of the Board of Directors of Cemex, Instituto Tecnológico y de Estudios Superiores de Monterrey, and Promotora Ambiental S.A.B. de C.V. He is Chairman of both Tec Salud and Alianza Educativa Ciudadana por Nuevo León. He holds a degree in Business Economics from Stanford University. Lorenzo H. Alberto Garza Santos Zambrano Treviño (51 years old) ( ) (70 years old) He has served as board member at AXTEL since October, 1997. Has been board member at AXTEL since October 9, 2003. He is founder, Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chief Executive CEMEX. In addition, he was member of the Board of Directors of Promotora Ambiental S.A.B de C. V., he is also member of at IBM, part of the Board at Museo de Arte Contemporáneo de the Board of Directors at Desarrollos Delta and SUPERA. He Monterrey (MARCO) and served as President of the Board at is Chairman of the Foundation Mundo Sustentable; served as Sistema Tecnológico de Monterrey from 1997 thru 2012. He Chairman of the Advisory Board of Parque Ecológico Chipinque. graduated as Mechanical Engineer from Instituto Tecnológico He holds a degree in Business Administration from Instituto y de Estudios Superiores de Monterrey and studied a Masters Tecnológico y de Estudios Superiores de Monterrey and a Degree in Business Administration in Stanford University. graduate degree in Political Sciences from Southern Methodist University. 8 / AXTEL 2014 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT PROFILE Fernando A. Patricio Jiménez Barrera González Olivieri (49 years old) (60 years old) Was Chief Financial Officer at AXTEL from 1998 through 2009. He is member of the Board at AXTEL since April 26, 2010. Has been a board member at AXTEL since November 11, 2005. Since his trajectory started in CEMEX in 1989, he has served Prior to joining the company he had different positions in the in different management positions, including Corporate Vice financial field, including investment banker at Invermexico Casa President of Human Resources, Strategic Planning, and de Bolsa, treasurer at Grupo CYDSA, and again investment Business Development; President of CEMEX Venezuela; banker at Banca Serfín, S.A., where he was Director of President of CEMEX Asia; President of CEMEX South America International Banking and Treasury. He is currently member and the Caribbean; President of CEMEX Europe, Middle East, of the Board of Directors of Sociedad Financiera de Crédito Africa, Asia, and Australia; Executive Vice-President for Planning Popular Nacional and Operadora de Servicios Mega. He is a and Development and Executive Vice-President for Planning and CPA and holds a degree from Instituto Tecnológico y de Estudios Finance. He is currently serving as Executive Vice-President of Superiores de Monterrey. Finance and Administration. He received his degree and Master’s in Administration from Instituto Tecnológico y de Estudios Superiores de Monterrey. Alberto Santos Boesch Bernardo Guerra Treviño1 (43 years old) (50 years old) Has been a board member since April 17, 2013 and was He is member of the Board of Directors at AXTEL since April alternate board member for Alberto Santos de Hoyos (†) since 28, 2006 and Chairman of the Audit and Corporate Practices June 17, 2005. He is President of Empresas Santos S. A. de Committee. He is founder partner of Morales y Guerra Capital C.V., where he was General Director from 2000 to 2013. He is Asesores (MG Capital), President of the Audit Committee at President and Chief Executive Officer of Ingenios Santos, S.A. Promotora Ambiental S.A. de C.V., and member of the Board de C.V. Shareholder and Vice -president of Grupo Tres Vidas of Directors of Grupo FAMSA and Fibra Monterrey. He received Acapulco S.A. de C. V. He is also Board member at Grupo a degree in Industrial Engineering and Systems from Instituto Maseca, Interpuerto de Monterrey, UNAC, Philanthropy Network Tecnológico y de Estudios Superiores de Monterrey. for ITESM Alumni and Friends, Nuevo Amanecer Institute, En Nuestras Manos, DIF Nuevo León, National Energy and Technology Museum and Renace. He graduated in International Studies from Universidad de Monterrey and has international studies in Cushing Academy. Héctor Medina Aguiar1 Lawrence H. Guffey1 (64 years old) (47 years old) He has served as board member at Axtel since October 9, Has been member of the Board of Directors at AXTEL since 2003, is member of the Audit Committee and was Executive March 27, 2001. He is member of the Board of Directors Vice-President of Finance and Legal Department at CEMEX since 2000 and is part of the Audit and Corporate Practices through February 2010, when he retired. Before, he worked Committee. Likewise, he is Administrative Director at Blackstone at Grupo ALFA. He was Chairman of the Directive Board of Group International. Before joining Blackstone, he worked Universidad Regiomontana until April 2012 and was member at Acquisitions Group de Trammell Crow Ventures, the main of the Surveillance Board at Instituto Tecnológico de Monterrey investment arm at Trammell Crow Company. He is Member of until 2011. He is member of the Board of Directors of different Cineworld Group PLC, Deutsche Telekom and TDC. Graduated public and private companies. He graduated from Instituto from Rice University. Tecnológico y de Estudios Superiores de Monterrey as Chemical Engineer. He also holds a Master’s Degree in Management from The Management Centre of Bradford University, England and a Diploma in Quantitative Management Methods from Escuela de Organización Industrial in Spain. 1 Independent Director AXTEL 2014 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT / 9 Alternate Directors PROFILE Alberto de Villasante Herbert David Garza Santos (58 years old) (53 years old) He serves as Executive Director of Strategic Relations and is an alternate board member of AXTEL since April 27, 2007. He Has been alternate board member for Alberto Garza Santos was Vice-president of Negotiations, Alliances and Institutional since November 2005. He is Chairman of the Board of Directors Relations, being responsible for the relations with regulators, and Chief Executive of Maquinaria Diesel, S.A. de C.V. He is strategic asset acquisition, real estate, public telephony, and also Chairman of the Board of Directors of Comercial Essex, S.A. AXTEL strategic alliances. Before joining the company, he held de C.V. He is part of the Board of Administration of Desarrollos different positions in Xignux including the Direction at Multilec. He Delta, S.A. de C.V., and Promotora Ambiental, S.A. de C.V. is Member of the Board at Concresa S.A de C.V. and Productora He is member of the Advisory Board of the School of Business de Terrasos S.A. de C.V. He holds a degree in Marketing from Management at (ITESM), where he obtained his degree in Instituto Tecnológico y de Estudios Superiores de Monterrey. Business Management. Balbina Milmo Santos Andrés Velázquez Romero (44 years old) (50 years old) She is alternate board member for Thomas Milmo Zambrano He is the Executive Director for Entrepreneurial Market and since April 2007. She holds a degree in Graphic Design from Government. He is alternate director at AXTEL since March the Instituto de Arte y Restauración in Florence, Italy. She also 2007. He has served as Executive Director since 2004, in the studied at Escuela de Diseño Chamberlayne in Boston, United areas of Process Transformation and Information Technology, States. She has led several activities as entrepreneur. Mass Market and Business Market in different periods. Before joining AXTEL he worked in the financial sector, risk management, credit, financing, correspondent, international treasury and foreign exchange. He was also Chief Operations Officer (COO) at Banca Serfín New York Agency. He has a bachelor degree in Economics from Instituto Tecnológico Autónomo de Mexico (ITAM). Francisco Javier Garza Zambrano Ramiro G. Villarreal Morales (59 years old) (68 years old) Has been alternate board member for Lorenzo Zambrano He is alternate board member for Fernando A. Gonzalez Treviño since June 2005. Has held the position as President Olivieri since April 2011 and was previously alternate board of the Americas region for CEMEX, as well as President member for Héctor Medina Aguiar since April 2006. He is for CEMEX Mexico, CEMEX Panama, and Venezolana de Chief Legal Officer of CEMEX since 1987. He also serves as Cementos (Vencemos, S.A.); has also been Vice-president at Secretary of the Board of Directors of CEMEX since 1995. CEMEX Trading and President of CEMEX in the United States. From 1985 thru 1987 he held the position of Assistant General He is Director of Grupo Xignux, ASUR, Grupo CYDSA, GP Director of Grupo Financiero Banpaís (now part of Banco Construcciones, and Universidad de Monterrey, among others. Mercantil del Norte S.A.). He received his degree in Law from He holds a degree in Business Administration from Instituto Universidad Autónoma de Nuevo León and a Master’s Degree Tecnológico y de Estudios Superiores de Monterrey ( ITESM) in Finance from Wisconsin University. and has a Master’s Degree in Business Administration from Cornell University Johnson Graduate School of Management. 10 / AXTEL 2014 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT PROFILE Alicia Santos Boesch Thomas Westermann2 (34 years old) Has been alternate board member for Alberto Santos Boesch He is Alternate Director for Laurence H. Guffrey since April 2013. since April 2013. Holds a degree in International Relations from He is Analyst at Davidson Kempner Capital Management. Has Universidad de Monterrey (UDEM). He has also carried out worked in Blackstone, J.P. Morgan, The Boston Consulting Group studies in Marketing in the University of California (UCLA). He is and Booz & Co. He has a Master’s Degree in Administrative also a member of the Board in Grupo Sonoma and various social Sciences and Engineering from Stanford University and a B.S. organizations. in Engineering and Applied Mathematics from the Technical University in Denmark. Mauricio Morales Sada2 (54 years old) Has been alternate board member for Bernardo Guerra Treviño since April 2006. He is President and founding member of MG Capital, an independent investment management firm since 1995. From 1984 to 1995 he held different Senior positions in banks and brokerage houses in Mexico. He received the degree for Mechanical Engineer and Administration from Instituto Tecnológico y de Estudios Superiores de Monterrey (ITESM), and is currently member of the Executive Committee of the Business Development Program in the same institution. Board of Directors’ Sessions 2014 Session date Topics reviewed I. Board of Directors’ Session approval of the December 17, 2013 note. II. Market and Operations Report III. Society’s Financial Results Report. IV. Strategic Projects March 25 V. Regulatory Status VI. Discussion and approval of topics to be presented on the Ordinary General Assembly fo Society’s Shareholders. V. Various topics. I. Board of Directors’ Session approval of the March 25, 2014 note. II. Market and Operations Report III. Society’s Financial Results Report. May 27 IV. Investment opportunities facing the Telecommunications Reform and possible financing alternatives. V. Strategic Projects VI. Regulatory status. V. Various topics. I. Ratification of the Note from Board of Directors’ May 27, 2014 Session. II. Operations Report and Society’s Financial Results. September 26 III.Strategic Projects. IV. Regulatory Status. V. Various topics. I. Ratification of the Note from Board of Directors’ September 26, 2014 Session. II. Operations Report and Society’s Financial Results. December 16 III.Strategic Projects. IV. Regulatory Status. V. Various topics. Percentage of attendance: 66% 2 Alternate member of the Audit and Corporate Practices Committee AXTEL 2014 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT / 11 PROFILE Top management compensation policy Component Objective and alignment with the strategy Description Salaries are reviewed yearly based on the following criteria: • Business results Base salary Attract and retain talent. • Macroeconomic environment • Salary polls • Performance Comply with legal framework. • Christmas bonus Fixed compensation • Vacation bonus (Benefits) Assure competitiveness regarding the • Food bonus competition. • Car bonus Reward group and individual goals achievement. Variable Quarterly and yearly bonus plans based on Reinforce management team’s alignment compensation strategic and operational objective compliance. with stockholders’ interests, and assure competitiveness regarding the competition. Provide patrimonial stability to executives. • Major medical expenses insurance Social benefits Face contingencies. • Life insurance • Medical emergencies insurance and check up. Retain talent. G4-17 AXTEL Operational Structure Participation Subsidiary Activity percentage Instalaciones y Contrataciones, S.A. de C.V. (“Icosa”) Administrative Services 100% Servicios AXTEL, S.A. de C.V. (“Servicios AXTEL”) Administrative Services 100% Avantel, S. de R.L. de C.V. (“Avantel”) Telecommunications Services 100% Avantel Infraestructura S. de R.L. de C.V. (“Avantel Infraestructura”) Telecommunications Services 100% Telecom Network, Inc (“Telecom”) Telecommunications Services 100% Avantel Networks, S.A. de C.V. (“Avantel Network”) Telecommunications Services 100% Axes Data, S.A. de C.V. (“Axes Data”) Administrative Services 100% Contacto IP, S.A. de C.V. (“Contacto IP”) Administrative Services 100% AXTEL Capital S. de R.L. de C.V. (“AXTEL Capital”) Administrative Services 100% 12 / AXTEL 2014 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT PROFILE AXTEL Executive Team G4-34 / G4-37 / G4-41 / G4-49 Chalrman and Chief Executive Officer Tomás Milmo Santos Audit Director Gerardo González Villarreal Executive Direction for Executive Director for Executive Direction for Executive Direction for Corporate and Consumption Market Technology and Administration Government Market Operations Antonio De Nigris Sada José Antonio Velasco Andrés Velázquez Andrés E. Cordovez Carmona Romero Ferreto Executive Direction for Executive Direction Executive Direction for Strategic Relations for Finance Talent and Organizational Culture Alberto M. de Villasante Felipe C. Canales Herbert Tijerina Eloy Valerio Treviño AXTEL 2014 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT / 13 Alberto de Villasante Herbert Andrés Eduardo Cordovez Ferretto PROFILE (58 years old) (46 years old) He serves as Executive Director of Strategic Relations and is Since October 2013, he is Executive Director of Technology an alternate board member of AXTEL since April 27, 2007. He and Operations at AXTEL. Before this position, he was was Vice-president of Negotiations, Alliances and Institutional Director of Information Technologies and Processes. In his Relations, being responsible for the relations with regulators, 24 years of professional experience he has worked in several strategic asset acquisition, real estate, public telephony, and executive positions in different national and international AXTEL’s strategic alliances. Before joining the company, he held telecommunications, financial and services companies, different positions in Xignux including the Direction at Multilec. He being responsible for different functions, such as technology, is Member of the Board at Concresa S.A de C.V. and Productora innovation, operations, customer service, and sales. He holds de Terrasos S.A. de C.V. He holds a degree in Marketing from a degree in Computer Systems Engineering from Instituto Instituto Tecnológico y de Estudios Superiores de Monterrey. Tecnológico y de Estudios Superiores de Monterrey (ITESM) and obtained a Diploma from IPADE in Mexico in Executive Education. Andrés Velázquez Romero Antonio De Nigris Sada (50 years old) (50 years old) He is the Executive Director for Entrepreneurial Market and He serves as Executive Director for Consumer Market since Government. He is alternate board member at AXTEL since 2011. Before having his current position, he had different March 2007. He has worked as Executive Director since 2004, positions in AXTEL as North Regional Director for Mass Market, in the Process Transformation and Information Technology Director of Operations and Director of Service Delivery at a areas, Mass Market and Business Market in different periods. national level. Before becoming part of AXTEL in 1999, he Before joining AXTEL he worked in the financial sector, risk worked as Director of Business Banking and Entrepreneurs management, credit, financing, correspondent, international at BITAL (now HSBC) and in Financial Leasing Institutions treasury and foreign exchange. He was also COO at Banca (Prime Internacional). He graduated as Industrial Engineer from Serfín New York Agency. He has a bachelors degree in Universidad Anáhuac. Economics from Instituto Tecnológico Autónomo de Mexico (ITAM). Felipe Carlos Canales Tijerina Gerardo González Villarreal (57 years old) (48 years old) Serves as Executive Financial Director at AXTEL since He has served as Audit Director in AXTEL since March 2000. February 2009. Before joining the company he was Finance Before his current position he was Financial Controller. He and Administration Director at Sigma. During his 30 year career has more than 25 years of experience in auditing, fiscal, in Alfa he had different executive positions. He was member and accounting. Before joining AXTEL, he collaborated with of the Board of Directors at Alestra and Director of Corporate international accounting firms such as Coopers and Lybrand Planning and Economic Studies and Corporate Treasurer at International and DFK International, and was member of the Alfa Corporation. He holds a degree in Industrial Engineering Mexican and International Committee for DFK International, as from Instituto Tecnológico y de Estudios Superiores de President of the Mexican accounting firm. He holds a degree in Monterrey (ITESM) and studied a Master’s Degree in Business Public Accounting from Universidad del Norte. Administration in Wharton School, in Pennsylvania University. José Antonio Velasco Carmona José Eloy Valerio Treviño (49 years old) (55 years old) He is Executive Administration Director since July 2014. Since he He is Executive Director for Talent and Organizational Culture at joined AXTEL in 1999, he has been involved in the finance and AXTEL since July 2014. Before this position, he was Executive administration areas. He was in charge of Corporate Finance, Director for Administration and Human Resources. He has and was later designated Treasurer and Administrative Director. 30 years expertise; 20 of these in managerial positions in his He participated in different debt emission programs and OPI of specialty areas. He has also been a consultant in businesses the company in 2005. He also participated in the acquisition of related to paper and cellulose, tourism, steel, auto mechanics, Avantel and was responsible for the integration of the financial and pharmaceutics. He was President of the Association of areas of this company. He holds a degree in Administration from Executives in Human Resources (ERIAC), Secretary of the Instituto Tecnológico y de Estudios Superiores de Monterrey Board of North American Resources Managers Association (ITESM) and obtained a Diploma at IPADE for Executive (NARHMA) and board member for academic, government Education. and non governmental organizations. He holds a degree in Administration from Universidad Autónoma de Nuevo León and a Master’s Degres in Administration from Instituto Tecnológico y de Estudios Superiores de Monterrey (ITESM). 14 / AXTEL 2014 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT PROFILE AXTEL Audit and Corporate Practices Committee G4-35 / G4-36 The Auditing and Corporate Practices Committee reports interest, this Committee, jointly with the Internal Auditor directly to the Board of Directors and is formed by three and the External Auditor, it makes sure the directors will independent directors. Its key functions are overseeing the refrain from participating in the corresponding voting. administrative and financial management of the company, • Maintaining communication of the directors with the operation and execution at AXTEL, as well as recommending Board of Administration. This communication can also be the Internal and External Auditing areas the actions needed to established through the Investors Relations area, which be carried out in regards to the significant financial matters of also receives comments and recommendations from all the company. our stakeholders. The contact email is ir@axtel.com.mx Some other important functions in this Committee are: The attendance percentage of committee members at the • Avoiding conflict of interest in the highest governance sessions in 2014 was 75%. body at AXTEL in adherence to LMV. In case of conflict of Risk Management G4-2 / G4-14 / G4-45 / G4-46 / G4-47 The changing environment in every company at a global level We also have a corruption risk map which considers those operates, compels us to remain alert to the external risks to operations with the greater exposure to these kinds of which our operation could be exposed. In the same way, we actions. Each risk was reviewed 100 %, without detecting address potential internal risks. corruption cases. Thus, we have methodologies which enable us to identify and This risk map serves as a baseline to determine the analyze these situations in order to give timely attention and Audit Plan for the corresponding period and is focused in make decisions to respond to these risks. guaranteeing: The management of these issues is coordinated by the • Operation efficiency and continuity. Internal Audit area and reports to the General Director at • Reliability and integrity in operational and financial AXTEL. This area is responsible for monitoring the Internal information of the company. Control System through which the financial and non-financial • Safeguarding the company assets. processes of the business are assessed. There were 20 • Compliance of existing laws and regulations. relevant risks identified in 31 processes during 2014, which • Detecting important errors in internal control and timely were reviewed 100 hundred %, concluding that they have no informing for their correction. influence in the compliance of our strategic objectives. Main focus for 2014 Desired Results Status Focus on processes and risk Maintaining the level of efficiency and effectiveness on the Impact on detected risks was minimized generating levels according to the strategic business’s strategic goals and generating an ascending actions and implementing controls which supported initiatives of the company. value scale depending on the company’s results. in strategic objective compliance. Focus and risk mitigation Increase in efficiency in key processes and activities Streamline the new product quality and ensure return on regarding new projects and related to service, investment, and profitability in investment and profitability of new and existing products. products. new and/or existing products. Increase in dissemination of Maintaining optimal levels of trust within the company’s Collaborators’ participation increased through anonymous complaint lines. collaborators. several denouncing lines. That the provision of the Telecommunications Law Reform Impact is only one digit percentage between net Laws and Regulations for no long distance charges does not generate negative earnings and cost, thus it represents a low risk level. impact on earnings. Having the CFE not offering telecommunications services Appeal to the Communications Ministry, IFT and Laws and Regulations to Federal Government, since this entity is a Carrier of Congress so there fair competition is generated. Carriers and not a final service supplier. AXTEL 2014 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT / 15 PROFILE Business Ethics and Human Rights G4-41 / G4-57 / G4-58 / G4-HR2 / G4-HR3 / G4-HR4 / G4-HR5 / G4-HR6 / G4-HR7 / G4-SO4 / G4-SO5 / PMNU 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 y 10 AXTEL’s Ethics Code officially provide the guidelines to Complaints related to accounting, internal control, robbery which the company`s operations are subject, as well as or asset abuse, inappropriate use of privileged information, the behaviors expected from our collaborators in their daily bribery, policy non-compliance, and fraud activities may be activities, including the prevention of conflicts of interest. received through the Transparency Mailbox, in addition to the Ethics Code grievances. The topics specified in this document are related to: behavior at work; communication; conflict of interests; personnel As a secondary function, this Mailbox also provides hiring; honesty, loyalty and integrity; confidential information; collaborator counseling in regards to issues related to ethical job safety; relationship with clients, community, government and licit behavior on their daily operations, in addition to how and suppliers; promotion and sales; and environmental to behave in specific controversial regarding ethical topics. accountability. The contact lines available to receive complaints 24/7/365 a In AXTEL we adhere to international ethics principles and year are: reject corruption, extortion, and bribery. Toll-free number : 01 800 087 0909 The mechanism to manage the correct application of the Ethics Code, is the AXTEL Transparency Mailbox, through E-mail: transparenciaaxtel@axtel.com.mx which complaints submitted anonymously are received, and can also be presented personally in the work area. In both Web Page: http://axtel.mx/gobierno-corporativo/buzon-decases, its procedure is totally confidential and guarantees that transparencia there will be no revenge or retaliation to claimants. In our corporate offices with the Audit Director and/or Complaints are received and addressed until solved by the Manager of Corporate Governance. Direction of Internal Audit, who channels them based on the kind of risk implicit with the activity reported. In case there are controversies, they will be reviewed jointly with the Honor and Justice Committee which is formed by the Legal Director, Human Resources Director and Audit Director. Audit Direction Complaints are Corrective actions receives analyzed and assigned are carried out comments and/or for appropriate according to Sanction Complains. attention. Code. A summary is elaborated An annual report is The sensitive cases are Auditing from results and submitted to the Audit reviewed together with procedures are information is submitted Committee with the Honor and Justice carried out. to Executive Direction complaints received. Commitee. 16 / AXTEL 2014 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT Complaints received in 2014 PROFILE % 1% 1% 2% 2 3% Inappropriate client treatment Inappropriate employee treatment 15 Policy compliance % Assett preservation Conflict of interests Other Personal relationships 76% In 2014 we received 200 complaints out of which 43 (21%) proceeding complaint. By the end of 2014, el 94% were were founded and received the corresponding attention and solved and 4% are in the process of being solved. None of follow-up, corrective actions were taken in all cases; 77% them was related with corruption activities or discrimination were complaints in the area of customer service that were incidents. channeled to the appropriate department, and 2% were non Kind of complaint Solution Customer service is assigned to follow-up, when a solution is achieved, the Inappropriate treatment to client/customer complaint is closed by sending a report. Corrective measures were taken, from firing personnel to the application Inappropriate treatment to employee of corporate atmosphere to foster best practices, as well as leadership recommendations. Strengthening communication among employees about policy compliance in Policy compliance the company. After the corresponding audits, the firing of the identified as responsible Fixed assets preservation personnel took place. Conflict of interest Inadmissible complaint Personal Inter-relations Inadmissible complaint AXTEL 2014 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT / 17 In 2014 we carried out specific actions emphasizing our In AXTEL we respect human rights3 in all their expressions PROFILE interest in following a culture of legality: and reject discrimination activities, forced labor, child labor, and we make sure all individuals with whom we relate, are • We taught a course of Promotion of the Culture of Legality protected from abuse, coercive actions and threats. To to security personnel working in the three main cities guarantee its compliance tools such as our Ethics Code, the where we operate (Mexico, Guadalajara, and Monterrey). Diversity and Inclusion Policy, Hiring Policy and Personnel The topics covered were anti-corruption policies, Selection, as well as our Transparency mailbox. transparency mailbox, corporate values and ethics code. The course is promoted by “Hagámoslo Bien”, supported We joined the United Nations Global Compact since 2011 by “Mexico Unido contra la Delincuencia“ and registered and promote its 10 Principles related with human rights, labor at the Labor and Social Welfare Department. 70% of the standards, environment, and the fight against corruption. security officers participated in this training. • We continue to train 100% of our new incoming We comply with legislation in our country and respect collaborators on the Ethics Code, Human Rights, Antifreedom of association and the effective recognition of the Corruption Policy, No Presents, and Transparency right to collective bargaining negotiations of our collaborators, Mailbox. to whom a permanent education program is taught regarding • We have a permanent inspection program for external union matters. contractors to ensure that all age requirements, documents and safety equipment are met by those carrying out tasks inside and outside our facilities. AXTEL Services G4-4 / G4-8 Our services are offered through different access we offer the most advanced broadband service in the country, technologies such as optical fiber, fixed wireless access, point with a 200 MBPS speed. to point and point to multipoint links, enabling us to address market demands. We are present in 39 cities in Mexico and provided service in 2014 to 618 thousand 598 clients in two market segments: Our offer includes a portfolio of more than 30 services among which are broadband service, pay television, advanced • Consumption Market solutions for data transmission and implementation of private • Corporate and Government Market virtual private networks, web hosting, data centers, managed security, services for other telecommunications operators, and voice services among others. Through AXTEL X-tremo Ciudad Juárez In order to improve our service offer, we will invest more than 13 MILLION USD during the next five years in OPTICAL FIBER INFRASTRUCTURE IN CIUDAD JUÁREZ, CHIHUAHUA and 14 MILLION USD in this same period in TOLUCA, STATE OF MEXICO. Toluca 3 To learn our Human Rights Policy in detail and the 10 principles 4 The complete list of products and services can be found in: of the United Nations World Compact you may visit: www.axtel.mx www.axtel.mx/sustentabilidad 18 / AXTEL 2014 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT PERSPECTIVA FINANCIERA Consumption Market Includes the TELCO (Telecommunications) and Value Added Services business lines. The products offered in 2014 were: TELCO Value Added Services In the telephony product line: AXTEL Plans, Intelligent Line, AXTEL Conmigo, Expert for PC/Mac, Seguridad Masiva, 800 Service; in Packages: AXTEL X-tremo, Acceso Universal, Membresía AXTEL, Asistencia Pyme, Soporte Especializado, Entretenimiento X-tremo with AXTEL TV. WiFi X-tremo, WiFi en el hogar, Connected Home & PERSPECTIVA MEDIOAMBIENTAL Business, Back-up, Tienda AXTEL. TELCO VALUES ADDED SERVICES AXTEL Expert on Mass AXTEL PyME Telephony Voices and Voice, data and Conmigo PC/MAC Security Membership Support packages data packages TV packages Specialized WiFi WiFi AXTEL Support X-tremo at home Store PERSPECTIVA SOCIAL DELIVERY MODELS: NETWORKING AND LOCATION STRATEGIC INITIATIVES Product Pricing Channels Communications FUNDACIÓN AXTEL SOLUTIONS DESING Market segment Strategic objetives Value proposition Among the main achievements in the Consumption Market and launching the content of services like HBO GO, Fox segment in 2014 we can list: Play, TNT GO, Cartoon Network GO, Space GO and Hot SUSTENTABILIDAD AXTEL • The deployment of optical fiber infrastructure for homes GO on line, in addition to complementing its content on (FTTH) in Ciudad Juárez and Toluca, totaling 10 cities demand with studios such as 20th Century Fox, Lionsgate covered with this technology. and On Demand. • 21% growth in Internet clients compared to 2013, in • Obligations stemming from the Telecommunications addition to 27% increase in AXTEL TV client penetration Reform in regards to long distance were implemented. over the FTTx client base. • By the end of 2014 we launched Smart Home & Business • There is an increase in our business client database in alliance with Honeywell, which enables us to offer attracted by the high speed offering of AXTEL X-tremo. safety and comfort services and applications to our • We implemented a simplification strategy for the AXTEL clients. X-tremo portfolio, which enables the client to evaluate and • We evolved to the AXTEL Expert service that enables select the best package in a simple way. us to provide technical support, not only for the client’s PERFIL DE LA COMPAÑÍA • We developed an on-line sales channel that offers the computer, but for any device demanding Internet functionality of automated sales for our services with an connectivity. immediate response. • AXTEL TV enriched its offer by adding more than 30 high definition channels and 20 standard definition channels INFORME ANUAL INTEGRADO AXTEL 2014 / 19 PROFILE Earnings (million MXN) Clients Segment 2012 2013 2014 Segment 2012 2013 2014 Residential 2,820 2,615 2,597 Residential 637,068 561,607 515,968 Micro 586 643 695 Micro 64,327 69,697 78,064 Small 276 266 280 Small 14,285 13,562 15,283 Total 3,682 3,523 3,572 Total 715,680 644,866 609,315 Corporate and Government Market We service this market with an assortment of products and services appropriate to this segment’s needs. Our portfolio is divided into products (Telecommunications) and IT (Information Technology). Information Technology (IT) Telecommunications (TELCO) A market in constant evolution and growth where we have This market provides AXTEL with 70% of the corporate and concentrated our new product launches. governmental sectors income. In the Networks product lines: International VPN (VPN PIP International) and International In the Global Infrastructure line: Data Center; in Total Safety: Private Line (Global Link). AXTEL Track; and in Total Collaboration: Contact Center, Immediate Contact Center, Private Cloud Collaboration. In the Networks: International VPN (VPN PIP International) and International Private Line (Global Link). IT TELCO Global Complete Total Universal Traditional IP Networks Internet infrasctucture security collaboration Aplications telephony telephony DELIVERY MODELS: NETWORK AND LOCATION ADMINISTRATIVE SERVICES PACKAGES 24 7 Contact NOC/SOC Data AXTEL Certifications Alliances Service Center Center Network Center SOLUTIONS DESIGN 20 / AXTEL 2014 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT Government Business PROFILE We have increased our services through the implementation We work successfully to tend to the medium, large and in 2014 of TIC integration projects with the governmental corporate sector through the development of integral sector clients. Some of these clients are SEDESOL (National solutions, with special emphasis on vertical segments of the Communications Network), FOVISSSTE (Business Continuity financial sector, call centers and carriers. Plan), STPS (National Communications Network and Integral Services), the Government of the State of Jalisco (Accounting Harmonization System), among others. Earnings (million MXN) Clients Segment 2012 2013 2014 Segment 2012 2013 2014 Corporate 4,536 4,495 4,782 Corporate 10,112 8,083 8,974 Government 1,971 2,268 2,243 Government 328 470 309 Total 6,508 6,763 7,025 Total 10,440 8,553 9,283 AXTEL Technology Our services are supported by State-of-the-Art technologies that enable us to meet our clients’ needs. We provide telecommunications solutions through access technologies including: AXTEL digital network WiMAX We integrate local telephony services, Delivers high speed data links using the long distance, Internet, and value added IP protocol in a native manner. services. Point to Multi-point Radio Optical fiber It is used to provide voice and data High capability transportation, quality services with a broad geographical and reliability in voice and data digital scope. It has the 60 MHz spectrum, with transmission, as well as direct web coverage at a national level, within the connection. 10.5 GHz band. Point to Point Radio Complete voice, data and Internet Fiber to The Home or Business (FTTx) services, with great clarity and total call Enables the delivery of high capacity security. It enables us to cover the high symmetrical services for homes and capacity and broad coverage service businesses. requirements. AXTEL has 100 MHz spectrums within the 23 GHz band and 128 MHz spectrums within the 15 GHz band. AXTEL 2014 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT / 21 PROFILE AXTEL TV WiFi Metro The IPTV (Internet Protocol TV) Access to Internet through a broad technology enables us to provide a number of WiFI Hotspots located in differentiated service in Mexico, having different places in the city. It uses optical unique functionalities and providing an fiber and the AXTEL IP network as unequal image quality. transportation means. Fixed Wireless Access Intelligent network Enables us to provide local telephony Offers versatile, reliable and customized services, long distance, Internet and services such as automation and value added services to residential customization of incoming calls, customer clients and small businesses. It is not service, contact centers, probing and cell telephony. Utilizing 50 MHz spectrum surveys, 800 and 900 numbers, among within the band for 3.4 GHz at a national others. level and has a minimum impact on the environment. Quality Management System Our Center for Excellence is focused on managing Collections, Business Solutions Design, Business Service improvement projects using the Lean Six Sigma methodology. Delivery and Business Sales. The use of these tools allows us to make knowledgeable decisions and involving the operation in changes carried out We use the ISO 9000:2008 methodology to manage quality in to the business processes. our operations. More than 24 projects or Improvement Tables were closed The benefits of these improvements for the company are during 2014, where more than 150 collaborators were shown in cost management and operational efficiency. An engaged from areas such as: Access Engineering, Capability example of some projects in which we worked during 2014 Engineering, Network Operation, Network Monitoring were: maintenance advantages, network strengthening, preCenter, Negotiations, IT Infrastructure, MIR, External Plant, selling flow, connectivity and solutions design, among others. 22 / AXTEL 2014 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT SUSTAINABILITY G4-15 SUSTAINABILITY 2014 in numbers 7 years 17 certifications and obtaining the Distinction re-certifications as Socially Responsible Company. in different IT areas 2 years 2 years being part of Sustainable obtaining the Environmental IPC of the Mexican Stock Quality Certification granted by Exchange. PROFEPA and SEMARNAT. 94% of our acquisitions are carried out with national 5 million 317 thousand 894 suppliers. interactions with clients through our contact formats. What did we work on We received the Gold Star distinction from Cisco during 2014? for the third consecutive year for our Customer We participated in the #YOLOBORRO Satisfaction Excellence. campaign to communicate the importance of the appropriate use and responsibility of the new technologies in order to inhibit violent behaviors in the digital environment such as We reached to our collaborators, suppliers, ciberbullying. communications media and shareholders and asked for the topics they consider of greater relevance in regards to AXTEL sustainability. This exercise was a forum aimed at knowing their opinion and address their needs for We visited foster homes, old people’s homes, information through our Annual Integrated and food kitchens as part of our Social Outreach Report and our different communication media.• Program. The second “Cobertón AXTEL” (Giving a We taught Sensitivity to Disability workshops Blanket event) in which our employees in coordination with DIF in 11 cities where 610 participated, donating more than 400 blankets people participated. distributed into nine communities. 24 / AXTEL 2014 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT SUSTAINABILITY Sustainability Statement Global Sustainability Strategy Social Strategy We seek to contribute to a more sustainable future with our We promote sustainable development in our community, work and environmental practices, introducing in an honest, carrying out actions that benefit our collaborators and our ethical and responsible manner, innovative solutions that external communities, providing them the tools that allow provide society access to information and communication them to access to better education and health opportunities technologies. as well as a dignified life. Economic Strategy Environmental Strategy Our commitment is to honestly manage our technology, We seek to reduce the environmental negative impact of our economic, and financial resources, operating efficiently and operation practices, reviewing our procedures, developing enabling a successful and sustainable growth of the company, new technologies, improving our methods, preserving under a stringent risk control and meeting regulations. resources and establishing a harmonious relationship with nature. Sustainability Model ING L BE EN EL VIR LW ON NA M OC EN T CU PA TI O ETHICS, MENTS RES PO EST AND NS V IN Q UA IBIL IAL LIT IT Y OC S Y TION IN INFORMATI OVA ON INN CHNOLOGIES AND TE MUNICATION COM Under AXTEL Sustainability Model’s framework and AXTEL Sustainability Policy5, we coordinated our socially accountable performance and aligned it to our business’ strategy. 5 To learn more about our Sustainability Model, please visit: www.axtel.mx/sustentabilidad AXTEL 2014 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT / 25 1 MEDIOS DE COMUNICACIÓN COMPETENCIA COMUNIDADES COMUNICACIÓN SUSTAINABILITY Stakeholders G4-24 / G4-25 / G4-26 / G4-27 COMUNIDADES SINDICATOS We know that success in our business is based not only on the services we offer, but also on the good relationship we maintain with the community and the stakeholders around us. In AXTEL we have grouped organizations and individuals with whom we are related to into 10 categories to ease our communication and attention to each one of them. SINDICATOS COLABORADORES Stakeholders COLABORADORES ACCIONISTAS E INVERCIONISTAS Employees Shareholders and investors Shareholders and company’s capital owners, creditors or investors in People that perform a function at the service of AXTEL, as well as company’s debt, analysts who facilitate information between the company individuals that work as part-time personnel. and investors, as well as regulators, valuator agencies and other entities INVERCIONISTAS with influence over public companies. CONTACT CONTACT FREQUENCY FREQUENCY Intranet Permanent Web page Permanent Email messages Daily Current communication channel Annual Integrated report Annual Meetings with CEO Annual Electronic newsletter Bi-weekly Board meetings Quarterly Transparency Mailbox Permanent Results conferences Quarterly Corporate Social Network Permanent Annual Shareholder Meeting Annual Brochures and printed materials Permanent Corporate atmosphere Annual Email Permanent Web page Permanent Forum presentations Recurrent Integrated Annual Report Annual Quarterly results report Quarterly Spokespeople and representatives Permanent News and media Permanent Spokespeople and representatives Permanent Press releases By event News and media Quarterly Health and safety commissions Monthly Shareholders contact mailbox Permanent Results recognition Training and professional development Profitable and sustainable growth, Live / work balance Information transparency Expectations Flexible work schedules Accountability Occupational health and wellness Competitive salaries and benefits Access to high executive levels Safe working conditions Accountability on decisions and results Innovation (accountability) Communication Organizational atmosphere survey 360° annual assessment Strategic planning Communication campaigns Objective alignment Constant communication with investors Seniority recognition Volunteer program Initiatives Internal audit Annual Integrated Report Health, education and entertainment programs Personal safety prevention campaigns Risk identification Family Day AXTEL meeting Corporate Governance structure Results based incentive Objectives alignment Ethics Code Commercial agreements for collaborators 26 / AXTEL 2014 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT SUSTAINABILITY CLIENTES Stakeholders CLIENTES Customers PROVEEDORES Suppliers Individuals or groups that use AXTEL services in a recurring or eventual Organizations or individuals with whom AXTEL maintains trade manner to cover their communication needs, entertainment and relations to exchange goods and services that support the execution of information technologies. GOBIERNO Y ENTIDADES our administrative and operational processes. PROVEEDORES REGULATORIAS CONTACT CONTACT FREQUENCY FREQUENCY Media news Permanent Suppliers’ extranet Permanent Advertising Permanent O Y ENTIDADES Emails ￼ ORGANIZACIONES Y GRUPOS Bi-monthly Annual Integrated Report Annual Current communication channel REGULATORIAS Message and inserts in invoices DE LA SOCIEDAD CIVIL By event Emails Bi-monthly Leaflets Monthly Contact Center (telemarketing, Monthly Face-to-face meetings Monthly service and National Center for ONES Y GRUPOS Permanent Repair) Permanent 1 workshops Training Monthly COMPETENCIA SOCIEDAD CIVIL Web page Spokespeople and representatives Permanent Transparency Mailbox Permanent Contact Mailbox Permanent Transparency Mailbox Permanent Spokespeople 1 and representatives Permanent COMPETENCIA MEDIOS DE COMUNICACIÓN SMS Permanent Contact Mailbox Permanent Annual Integrated Report Monthly Facebook, Twitter, You Tube, Digital Annual News and media Permanent media (Google) Daily Press releases By event COMUNICACIÓN COMUNIDADES Service quality and reliability Timely communication and attention Development Truthful and timely information of product and service offerings COMUNIDADES Sharing sustainable business practices Expectations Innovation SINDICATOS Legality Policy compliance Knowledge of AXTEL and its products Compliance of current legislation Price according to product value SINDICATOS COLABORADORES Care for the environment Support and counseling Care for the environment Customer approach making the satisfaction model evolve Communication through media COLABORADORES ACCIONISTAS E INVERCIONISTAS Portal redesign Implementation of Environmental Leadership Workshop Communication deployment, service and sales (PROFEPA) Via Social Networks Initiatives E INVERCIONISTAS PC&MAC Expert post-sales and specialized support specialized Implementation of Social Accountability Workshop (CEMEFI) services. Data Center and service personnel certification Engagement in no-gift and anti-corruption campaign. Certification of contact centers Volunteer programs E Business and digital marketing Optical Fiber Network (FTTX) development Electronic invoicing AXTEL 2014 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT / 27 CLIENTES PROVEEDORES GOBIERNO Y ENTIDADES SUSTAINABILITY PROVEEDORES REGULATORIAS Stakeholders NO Y ENTIDADES Government and Regulatory ORGANIZACIONES Y GRUPOS Organizaciones y Grupos REGULATORIAS Entities DE LA SOCIEDAD CIVIL de la Sociedad Civil Civil society organizations with which the enterprise is related with the Government entities with which AXTEL interacts for the correct purpose of exchanging services, knowledge and/or mutual support (or execution and provision of its services, always respecting the legal IONES Y GRUPOS framework existing in México. for one1of them), for the benefit of the enterprise, the members of the COMPETENCIA organizations or both parties. SOCIEDAD CIVIL CONTACT CONTACT FREQUENCY FREQUENCY Face-to-face meetings Permanent Volunteer work By event 1 Portability and long distance MEDIOS DE COMUNICACIÓN AXTEL Foundation Permanent COMPETENCIA Monthly Committees Current communication channel Email Permanent Spokespeople and representatives Permanent Transparency Mailbox Permanent Transparency Mailbox Permanent Annual Integrated Report Annual E COMUNICACIÓN COMUNIDADES Annual Integrated Report Annual News and media Permanent News and media Permanent Campaigns By event Press releases By event 01 800 AXTEL Foundation Permanent COMUNIDADES SINDICATOS Invitation for co-investment projects Annual Web page Permanent Permanent Spokespeople and representatives Permanent Portability dealer microsite Web page Permanent Reunions By event SINDICATOS COLABORADORES Press releases By event Compliance of laws, regulations, and applicable standards Alliances and support COLABORADORES Investment ACCIONISTAS E INVERCIONISTAS Feedback Expectations Job creation Contribution in social and economic development Social coverage Job creation E INVERCIONISTAS Analysis of proposals for laws and regulation projects Education promotion Collaboration with authorities Annual invitation for co-investment contest in social projects. Compliance with current legislation Participation in volunteer work Initiatives Participation in intermediate organizations Participation in non-government organizations Constant dialogue Social welfare campaigns Job creation Participation in mixed representation social programs Investment (Government PS-Community) 28 / AXTEL 2014 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT NO Y ENTIDADES ORGANIZACIONES Y GRUPOS REGULATORIAS DE LA SOCIEDAD CIVIL IONES Y GRUPOS SUSTAINABILITY 1 SOCIEDAD CIVIL COMPETENCIA Stakeholders 1 Competitors MEDIOS DE COMUNICACIÓN Media COMPETENCIA Telecommunications Dealers and Information Technology enterprises who offer same or similar services as AXTEL with whom there Enterprises specialized in spreading news through one or several is constant communication in order to achieve a competitive media (printed, electronic, etc.). E COMUNICACIÓN development in the Telecommunications Industry.COMUNIDADES CONTACT CONTACT FREQUENCY FREQUENCY Committees Permanent Press releases By event Current communication channel COMUNIDADES One-on-one interviews By event Web page Permanent SINDICATOS Spokespeople and representatives Permanent Spokespeople and representatives Permanent Breakfasts Quarterly Press releases By event Annual Integrated Report Annual SINDICATOS Sector meetings and events By event COLABORADORES Web page Permanent Annual Integrated Report Annual Transparency Mailbox Permanent News and media Permanent Social networks and applications Permanent COLABORADORES Email Permanent Transparency Mailbox Permanent ACCIONISTAS E INVERCIONISTAS Fair competition and legally following E INVERCIONISTAS Compliance of agreements and standards Truthful and timely information Expectations Participation in committees and industry chambers Transparency Exchange of opinions regarding industry aspects and topics Accountability Respect to legality Compliance of current legislation Acting ethically Participation in sector forums and industry chambers Constant dialogue Initiatives Constant and expedite communication Procurement of timely information Collaboration in joint opinions in legislation proposals Implementation of program for media relationship Facilitation in dialogue amongst competitors AXTEL 2014 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT / 29 1 MEDIOS DE COMUNICACIÓN COMPETENCIA COMUNIDADES SUSTAINABILITY COMUNICACIÓN Stakeholders COMUNIDADES Communities SINDICATOS Unions Groups of individuals who live in areas where Groups of Collaborators who are organized through a collective the company is established who maintain a good relationship as agreement and who work full time in the company. neighbors with the organization and its collaborators. SINDICATOS COLABORADORES CONTACT CONTACT Current communication channel FREQUENCY FREQUENCY Spokespeople and representatives By event Spokespeople and representatives By event Annual Integrated Report Annual Annual Integrated Report Annual Web page Permanent ACCIONISTAS E INVERCIONISTAS Web page Permanent COLABORADORES Social networks and applications Permanent Social networks and applications Permanent Transparency Mailbox Permanent Transparency Mailbox Permanent Journal notes By event Journal notes By event Email By event E INVERCIONISTAS Email By event Events and sector meetings Bi-annually Care for the environment Investment in social development projects Compliance of current legislation Expectations Job creation Improvement in working conditions Mutually beneficial relations Compliance of collective work agreement Effective communication channels Safe working conditions Respect to habits and culture Better productivity for the company Compliance of current legislation Mixed commissions for safety and hygiene Collective labor agreement Volunteer program Compliance of current legislation Initiatives Annual invitation for co-investment contest in social projects Participation in sector meetings Participation in sector meetings Permanently open communication channel Open communication channel Sector meetings Periodic training Better work safety and health conditions Suppliers G4-12 / G4-EC9 Our value chain is an essential link in our sustainability strategy. Our suppliers are the ones who provide products and services that enable us to serve our clients appropriately. 6% In order to guarantee supply chain efficiency, we have 94% procedures that guide us in the supplier selection logistics, from registration in our systems, receipt of services and merchandise, to their assessment about the quality requirements requested. During 2014 we carried out transactions with 801 suppliers, 94 of which were national and the remaining 6 were foreign. Spending a budget of 3 thousand 206 million MXN (83% of expenses) and 563 million MXN Nationals (17% of expenses) respectively. 75% of this budget corresponds to purchases of small and medium size Foreigns companies. 30 / AXTEL 2014 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT SUSTAINABILITY Community G4-SO1 Community initiatives were carried out as part of the Social Affiliation to Congruencia Movement responsibility area with the support of AXTEL collaborators. During 2014 we participated in the following initiatives: In November 2014, AXTEL joined the Congruencia Movement which has as its mission the promotion, awareness and Workshops on Disability Awareness promotion of the social/labor inclusion of disabled individuals with equal opportunities within the business sector. The In coordination with DIF, 25 workshops for Disability companies part of Congruencia Movement hire and offer Awareness were taught in the cities of Monterrey, Saltillo, career opportunities to individuals with a disability under the Torreón, Durango, Zacatecas, Hermosillo, Nuevo Laredo, same terms and conditions as any other employee. Reynosa, Matamoros, Ciudad Victoria and Tampico, with 610 collaborators as participants (9% of our headcount). Santa Catarina Technology University Project Social Outreach Events The Santa Catarina Technology University has a Disability Attention Program (PAD in Spanish) established since 2005, The purpose of Social Outreach is promoting solidarity among with the mission of providing higher education to people with AXTEL collaborators and their families towards vulnerable hearing, visual, motor or language disabilities. groups in the community. In 2014 we worked in coordination with DIF Nuevo León. AXTEL and Santa Catarina Technology University signed an agreement on June 6, 2011 to provide disabled individuals Five activities were organized with the participation of 152 with the opportunity to be employed in the Contact Center volunteers who benefited 790 people. One of the activities services that the company offers in the University facilities. organized was the second AXTEL Cobertón, where collaborators donated 416 blankets for communities in need Within this framework, The Company at School, promotes in the cities of Iturbide and García, Toluca, Mexico, Mexicali, the 100% Inclusive Outreach Program, consisting in training Hermosillo, Tijuana, Tampico, and Culiacán. personnel at the Contact Center to privilege individuals with disabilities who meet the appropriate profile to initiate a work #YOLOBORRO Campaign life. AXTEL joins the effort of the Science and Technology Commissions in the Senate and House of Representatives to communicate the importance of the appropriate and responsible use of new technologies in order to inhibit violent behaviors in the digital environment, such as cyberbullying. The #YOLOBORRO campaign is greatly important and of great impact, given that in Mexico, 30% of Internet users are younger than 12 years old. AXTEL 2014 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT / 31 SUSTAINABILITY Customer Satisfaction As an additional consultation tool for our clients and users, we carry out a bi-annual satisfaction survey. In 2014 there G4-PR5 were 10 thousand 185 clients participated assessing the following aspects: pre-selling and selling process, installation Our customers’ satisfaction in regards to our expected process, use of products and services, customer service, service is very important for us. We have available different failure repairs, invoicing and collection. Out of the clients mechanisms in order for our users to express concerns, interviewed, 75% correspond to the consumption market, and complaints, service faults, technical and administrative 25% to the business market. problems or to provide their opinion. The available channels are mailboxes in the Customer Service Modules, Customer Service Centers, web page, 2011 4.90 surveys and service calls. 2012 3.82 In 2014 we had a total of 2013 4.51 5 million 317 thousand 894 Corporate 2014 4.26 interactions with our clients. 2011 4.01 Phone 2012 4.20 86.3% 4,593,375 2013 4.40 Corporate 2014 4.24 2011 4.05 2012 3.97 2013 4.55 Government Chat 2014 4.19 9.8% 521,711 2011 3.97 2012 3.94 Social Networks 2013 4.28 Business 3.4% 2014 4.30 178,171 2011 4.47 Email 2012 4.31 0.5% Residential 2013 4.36 24,637 2014 4.38 32 / AXTEL 2014 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT AXTEL FOUNDATION G4-SO1 AXTEL FOUNDATION 2014 in numbers 25 civil society organizations supported through the Contest for Co-investment in Social Projects. More than 12 million MXN invested in social projects. One thousand 752 hours donated by AXTEL volunteers who participated in projects with the community. What did we work on during 2014? We launched the invitation for the 8th Supporting Alianza Educativa Contest for Social Projects Co-investment Ciudadana por Nuevo León, where involving and investment of 6 million we delivered the remodel work for MXN. In 2014, 25 organizations were infrastructure and equipment during selected, all of which provide attention to three years of intervention that took youths between the ages of 12 and 17 place in the Technical Secondary School who are in risk of social exclusion. No. 43 in the municipality of Apodaca, Nuevo León. 34 / AXTEL 2014 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT AXTEL FOUNDATION In AXTEL Foundation we promote the development of civil with a total of 6 million MXN and 11 thousand 932 individuals society organizations by providing resources to support social impacted. causes which are a concern. In 2014 we focused particularly on organizations working on projects with youths in risky At the same time, we provided economic resources for a total situations of social exclusion in urban-marginated areas in the of 9 million 700 thousand MXN, to support other programs in cities where AXTEL is present. the community, such as: Through the 8th edition of the Contest in Social Project Coinvestment, we supported 25 projects during 2014 in 13 cities Program Number of people benefited Project description Alianza Educativa Ciudadana por Nuevo León 1,500 Virtuous Circle for Education Quality Program, School 1º de Mayo and UDEM Polytechnic High School Red Sumarse 5,452 Reconstruction of social fabric and strengthening of civic capabilities. Potencia Joven 350 Social skills and prevention for social exclusion in children and youths. AXTEL CEMEX Family Orchards 105 Training in the creation and maintenance of family urban orchards. We continue the promotion of volunteer work among our collaborators, who in 2014 donated one thousand 752 hours of their time in seven projects where 647 people were benefited. AXTEL 2014 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT / 35 SOCIAL PERSPECTIVE $ SOCIAL PERSPECTIVE 2014 in numbers G4-EC6 96% of our collaborators have full-time contracts. CONTRACT 6,900 direct jobs. More than 20 thousand indirect jobs through contractors and direct suppliers. 96% of our directors and managers are Mexican. More than 7 thousand More than 600 educational, family and on line and on-site health activities offered to courses. our collaborators. What did we work As part of the Integral Collaborator AXTEL Cinema was created, where on during 2014? sharing and enjoyment of our Agenda we carried out a nutrition program at a national level as support for a healthy collaborators is promoted through the lifestyle among our collaborators. Among projection of movies, series, and sports the activities organized, we taught games twice a week. courses and presentations regarding nutrition and health. We organized the AXTEL 5K Race in Mexico, Guadalajara, Monterrey, and Culiacán with 2 thousand 700 participants. The AXTEL Library was created, to promote the culture of reading, where our collaborators may donate books, There were 22 presentations given exchange them and lend them for return. regarding different topics such as leadership, motivation, emotional intelligence, team work, among others. AXTEL 2014 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT / 37 SOCIAL PERSPECTIVE Workforce G4-10 / G4-EC5 / G4-LA1 / G4-LA3 Number of employees with permanent agreement Number of employees with temporary agreement distributed by gender distributed by gender Men Women Total Men Women Total Full Time 4,363 1,496 5,859 Full Time 423 339 762 Part Time 62 72 133 Part Time 88 58 146 Total 4,425 1,567 5,992 Total 511 397 908 Number of employees by gender and region Region Men Women Total Mexico, Center, South 1,384 313 1,697 West 988 452 1,440 North 2,564 1,199 3,763 Total 4,936 1,964 6,900 Number of collaborators hired in 2014 by gender Employees’ turnover rate in 2014 by gender and age and age Age Men Women Total Age Men Women Total 18 30 431 278 709 18 30 856 490 1,346 31 40 211 111 322 31 40 324 179 503 41 50 61 33 94 41 50 114 59 173 + 50 19 6 25 + 50 53 15 68 Total 722 428 1,150 Total 1,347 743 2,090 28.12% percent total rotation based on an average of 6.890 collaborators . 38 / AXTEL 2014 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT SOCIAL PERSPECTIVE Number of employees who exercised their maternity/paternity leave divided by gender Men Women Total Number of workers 188 147 335 Number of employees who returned to work after maternity/paternity leave divided by gender Number of workers 188 133 321 Number of employees who kept their work after 12 months after returning from maternity/paternity leave divided by gender. Number of workers 173 117 290 Competitiveness percentage de minimum wage salary vs daily wage in the area Geographic area Daily wage in the area Difference A $70.10 375% B $66.45 395% As part of the options offered to our employees to achieve a 26 educational events where 51 collaborators attended work-family balance, since 2012 we started the home office and received coaching on topics such as leadership, stress program, where collaborators are given the opportunity to management, personal finance, communication, teamwork, work from home in some areas where this work scheme is personal development and recruitment and selection. available. The Integral Collaborator Agenda offers training alternatives We started implementation in 2014 in the engineering area and events in the areas of health, education, family, where 17 collaborators participated, 12 men and five women; community, and labor development. Also, we have formalized 12 of them with an average commute time of 50 minutes 80 agreements with different product and service companies and five with an average commute of one hour or more. The with preferential benefits to which all our collaborators have scheme consists of working at home during 15 days and access. organizing the team in staggered groups. This program has shown multiple benefits such as greater productivity and more efficient work time, economic savings for employees in the concept of gas, contributing to decrease CO2 emissions into the atmosphere and better quality of life for our collaborators. Integral Collaborator Agenda We have cultural, educational events for our collaborators Area Collaborators participating and their families as well as family sharing events. In this sense, Family Day was celebrated in 38 cities in 2014, with Educational 5,895 an attendance of 14 thousand 297 people, out of which 4 Relative 2,700 thousand 944 were collaborators; an Educational Fair where 260 people attended; and the Health Fair in four cities with a Health 1,147 participation of 3 thousand 890 individuals. We also offered AXTEL 2014 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT / 39 SOCIAL PERSPECTIVE Health events for employees and their families Campaign 2012 2013 2014 Vaccination 938 1,056 2,320 Information and prevention 2,950 2,314 2,200 Family health 346 360 680 Miscellaneous medical services 439 450 523 Women Health programs 262 350 572 Conferences 250 250 160 Nutrition campaigns 497 530 652 Training G4-LA9 / G4-LA10 / G4-LA11 The training programs we offer Average number of hours of formation per year per employee per category to our collaborators develop their technical and personal Average formation abilities. We are convinced Number of Average Category of training per collaborators hours about the importance of the category development of each one of Excecutive Directors 3 3 1 them in their work area, thus we convey the relevance of Directors 28 35 1.25 joining this training offering Managers 38 61 1.6 offered virtually and online. Employees Staff 3,715 20,493 2.10 Contact Center Executives 1,285 23,420 2.82 Unionized 169 13,066 8.74 AXTEL training 2014 Number of colaborators Number of Average hours training Modality Hours of total taining trained courses taught per employee* Virtual 5,142 555 13,011 2.53 Presencial 824 136 44,260 53.71 *The average number of training hours per employee is calculated taking as a basis the number of collaborators trained. 40 / AXTEL 2014 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT SOCIAL PERSPECTIVE Integral and Occupational Safety G4-LA6 In accordance to the Ministry of Labor and Social Welfare (STPS), in the Industrial Security area, the record for accidents in 2014 remained 4% below the average for the professional and technical services providers’ industry. This represents a 13% decrease versus 2013. The accident gravity indicator also decreased in 45.42% compared to the national average registered by the STPS. Absenteeism rates, professional diseases, days lost and number of fatal victims by region in 2014 North West Center-South Men Women Men Women Men Women Total Number of work accidents 27 1 55 4 53 4 144 Days lost 993 28 683 62 1,130 123 3,019 Number of professional 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 diseases Fatalities 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Absenteeism rates, professional diseases, days lost and number of fatalities 2011 2012 2013 2014 Number of work accidents 113 133 139 144 Days lost 2,563 2,480 3,397 3,019 Number of professional diseases 0 0 0 0 Fatalities 0 0 0 0 Days lost due to accidents 17% 2014 20.96 2013 24.43 2012 18.65 Percentage of workers covered by a collective 2011 22.68 agreement 83% AXTEL 2014 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT / 41 SOCIAL PERSPECTIVE Incidence Index of Industry Related Accidents 2011 2012 2013 2014 AXTEL 1.41 2.03 2.05 2.09 Industry 2.82 2.77 2.56 2.56 Difference 50% 27% 20% 18% Gravity Index of Industry Related Accidents 2011 2012 2013 2014 AXTEL 31.91 37.91 50.02 43.75 Industry 83.65 77.10 66.56 66.65 Difference 62% 51% 25% 34% 42 / AXTEL 2014 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT ENVIRONMENTAL PERSPECTIVE G4-EN27 / PMNU 7, 8 y 9 $ ENVIRONMENTAL PERSPECTIVE 2014 in numbers 1.02% GJ saved due to redesign of energy efficiency processes and decrease in consumption CO 2 5 initiatives We decreased We decreased 12.83% tons 28.61 tons carried out in favor of the of CO2e emissions in paper consumption environment 1,689 tons of materials used in our operation were recycled We saved 13.62% (36,491 liters) in our water consumption What did we work on We continue with our campaign during 2014? for Paperless invoicing thanks to which we stopped printing 2 million We implemented wind energy in 724 thousand 963 invoices in 2014, 18 of our buildings, with which which represents a decrease in the we were able to reduce 34,909 consumption of paper in 28 tons, and Gigajoules. prevented 29 thousand tons of CO2 into the atmosphere. We participated in the Communication Committee for We worked in different projects to Fondos de Agua Metropolitano reduce greenhouse gas emissions de Monterrey (FAMM). generated by our operations. We participated in the Clean Transportation Program promoted by SEMARNAT and issued our GEI (Greenhouse Gases Report) Report to this government entity. 44 / AXTEL 2014 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT ENVIRONMENTAL PERSPECTIVE During 2014, we continued the screening of our For the second consecutive year, we maintained the environmental performance aiming to set goals for better Environmental Quality Company Certificate given by efficiencies and decrease our energy and water consumption, PROFEPA to our corporate buildings in Monterrey and Mexico the generation of waste and emissions into the atmosphere. City in the Santa Fe area. Our environmental management system follows the ISO Inside the company, another initiative is the Shared Car 14001 and the Federal Environmental Protection Agency Program, promoted since 2013 amongst our employees in (PROFEPA) guidelines. This system includes a map of the Monterrey. This program decreases CO2 emissions, reduces processes used to review and follow up on the company’s gas consumption, and efficiency in the corporate building’s environmental performance, as well as the logs that parking spots. gather each area’s information. Also, the right execution of the environmental policy is monitored, among which the We are still participating in the paperless Invoicing Program, Environmental Policy is included. implemented since 2011, which has saved 59 tons of paper since 37% of our clients have joined. In 2014, we stopped The Environmental Policy6 covers 100% of our operations printing 2 million 724 thousand 963 invoices, which equals and is aligned to AXTEL’s Sustainability Policy. It allows us to saving 29 tons of paper. align to institutional practices to improve our environmental performance, and is complemented with the Waste Policy and The Monterrey Metropolitan Water Fund (FAMM) was the Energy Saving Policy. created in 2013 by four universities, 23 companies, 16 civil organizations and 16 governmental organizations, is oriented We search, more and more, for the use of technologies that towards the protection of the sources of water which supply do not generate environmental liabilities, and we participate in more than 4 million people in the city. The FAMM is part of initiatives and projects to generate methods and procedures the Latin American Water Funds Alliance, created in 2011 that allow us to prevent and mitigate risks, while promoting a by The Nature Conservancy (TNC), Fundación FEMSA, the culture of resources care among our stakeholders. Inter-American Bank for Development (BID) and the World Environment Fund (FMAM-GEF) to create and strengthen The General Director (CEO) is the level in charge of the water funds in Latin America. The Fund has four objectives: environmental issues, which reflects the importance of mitigate floods, improve infiltration, develop a water culture environmental care to the company. We also make sure to and work with the government to invest for the water basin. comply with federal, national and municipal environmental laws in force, as well as the protocols and dispositions of Due to the industry’s nature, biodiversity and water do not the Ministry of the Environment and Natural Resources represent risk issues, given that our operations have a (SEMARNAT) and the Federal Environmental Protection minimal impact on these aspects. This fact was confirmed Agency (PROFEPA). by our stakeholders in the materiality exercise that took place in 2014. However, in Axtel we care for the environment This is the first year we generated the Greenhouse Gas integrally, and invest mainly on energy, CO2 emissions Protocol to be presented to the SEMARNAT as part of the reduction and waste. GEI Mexico program. We also presented our transportation’s GEI emission report as part of the Clean Transportation Program, promoted by the same governmental entity. G4-EN31 Deployment of expenses and environmental investments Description Amount (Mexican pesos) Waste treatment and disposal $1,014,722 Cleaning costs and materials $18,942,818 Total $19,957,540 Prevention costs and environmental management Description Amount (Mexican pesos) Cleaner technology installation costs $348,715 6 Para conocer la Política Ambiental consultar: www.axtel.mx/sustentabilidad/medioambiente AXTEL 2014 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT / 45 ENVIRONMENTAL PERSPECTIVE In 2014 we achieved important reduction in non-renewable materials, water, emissions to the atmosphere and non-recoverable hazardous waste. Environmental impact mitigation of our products and services in 2014 Description Iniciative Mitigation percentage • Emission Measurement Program Non-renewable materials consumption 13.31% • Clean Transportation Program Water consumption Internal water saving and conservation campaign 13.62% • Clean Transportation Program Emissions • Eolian energy 12.83% • Internal recycling and energy saving campaign Non-recoverable hazardous waste Internal recycling and energy saving campaign 52.79% Environmental impact of products and services transportation Unit of Goal Goal Aspects Impact Scope 2011 2012 2013 2014 Reduction measurement 2014 2015 Air emissions Medium Ton CO2 National 48,914 65,233 62,233 54,102 10% 12.83% 10% Waste Low Ton National 3,109 5,029 2,639 1,689 10% 35.99 10% Water Low M3 National 495,893 225,679 267,831 231,339 10% 13.62% 10% consumption Energy Medium Gj National 253,266 369,499 366,225 362,490 .50% 1.02% 1% Fuels Medium Liters National 5,643,673 5,225,918 4,239,940 3,675,268 10% 13.31% 10% Energy and Air Emissions G4-EN3 / G4-EN4 / G4-EN5 / G4-EN6 / G4-EN7 / G4-EN15 / G4-EN16 / G4-EN17 / G4-EN18 / G4-EN19 / G4-EN30 Since energy is one of the most important resources needed to operate, we constantly work on internal initiatives Direct energy consumption that may allow us to reduce consumption and make our operation more efficient. Fuels Liters Gigajoules Gas 45,278 1,495.31 In 2013 we established the goal to reduce .50% our electricity consumption, which was met and surpassed, Oil 10,144 369.84 given that our 2014 consumption decreased in 1.02%. Diesel 71,784 2,731.02 Total 127,206 4,596.16 46 / AXTEL 2014 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT ENVIRONMENTAL PERSPECTIVE Indirect energy consumption Total energy consumption in 2014 Consumption Kwh Gigajoules Consumption Total Gigajoules Electricity 90,994,618 327,580 Fuels 127,206 liters 4,596 Aeolian energy 9,697,162 34,909 Energy 100,691,780 Kwh 362,490 Total 100,691,780 362,490 Total 367,086 External energy consumption Energy intensity* Source Total Gigajoules Denominator Amount Transportation Number of employees 6,900 3,665,124 liters 121,041 (Fleet) Total energy consumption 100,691,780 Workers deployment to 20,750,400 liters 43,858 Energy intensity (employees) 14,593 kwh/person work centers Energy intensity (square Company travel 1,831,832 Km 112,281 534,kwh/m2 meters) Total 277,180 *Energy intensity is calculated by dividing energy consumption by the number of employees and/or square meters. Energy intensity of services (Gigajoules) Sources 2011 2012 2013 2014 Gas 185,868.32 172,112.31 139,637.85 121,041 Amount of offered services 1,050,022 1,025,581 893,806 890,309 Energy intensity 0.1970 0.1678 0.1562 0.1359 Due to the different programs and initiatives in which we participate, such as the Clean Transportation Program, we have increased our fleet’s efficiency and have been able to reduce fuel consumption. In 2014, we decreased gas consumption in 13.31%, gas in 15.20% and diesel in 89.06%. Breakdown of energy generating sources Reduction Goal Goal Sources 2011 2012 2013 2014 percentage 2014 2015 Fuels: diesel, gas and gasoline 6,033,945 5,371,778 4,949,839 3,792,250 23.38% 10% 10% (liters) Energy (Kwh) 70,351,873 102,638,752 101,729,438 100,691,780 1.02% .50% 1% Fuel consumption breakdown (Gigajoules) Reduction Goal Goal Sources 2011 2012 2013 2014 percentage 2014 2015 Gasoline 185,868.32 172,112.31 139,637.85 121,041 13.31% 10% 10% Gas 4,483.774 1,332.176 1,763.377 1,495.31 15.20% 10% 10% Diesel 47,780.92 4,019.088 24,966.51 2,731.02 89.06% 10% 10% AXTEL 2014 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT / 47 ENVIRONMENTAL PERSPECTIVE Electricity consumption breakdown (Kilowatts and Gigajoules) Reduction Goal Goal Consumption 2011 2012 2013 2014 percentage 2014 2015 Electricity 70,351,873 102,638,752 101,729,438 100,691,780 1.02% .50% 1% Gigajoules 253,266 369,499 366,225 362,490 Consumption Consumption 2013 Consumption 2014 Kwh savings Electricity 101,729,438 100,691,780 1,037,658 Consumption Kwh Gigajoules Electricity 90,994,618 327,580 Aeolian energy 9,697,162 34,909 Total 100,691,780 363,490 Fleet’s gasoline consumption reductions from 2011 to 2014 Reduction 2011 2012 2013 2014 percentage Gasoline consumption (liters) 5,643,673 5,225,918 4,239,940 3,675,268 13.31% In the following tables, we present the emissions produced by our operations and generated by fuels (scope 1), by electricity (scope 2) and by indirect emissions such as executives’ travels and deployment of employees (scope 3). Direct GEI emissions (scope 1)* Source CO2 tons Indirect GEI emissions (scope 1) Fuels mobile sources 8325.496 Source CO2 CH4 N 20 Fuels stationary sources 288.3551 Total 8,613.8511 Fuels 287.933 0.03168 0.00167 *Consumed fuel data used for travel, using as base year 2011. Direct emissions (tons) Source CO2 CH4 N 20 tCO2e Units Gas 72.97 0.00578 0.00012 73.16 45,278 L Gasoline 23.04 23.04 10,144 L Diesel 191.91 0.02590 0.00155 192.28 71,704 L Purchased electricity 45,488 45,488.20 90,994,618 Kwh Total 45,776 0.03168 0.00167 45,776.70 48 / AXTEL 2014 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT ENVIRONMENTAL PERSPECTIVE Indirect GEI emissions (scope3) Sum of scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions Source CO2 Liters Source CO2 Tons Travel 116 53,123 Fuels 8,613.42 Energy 45,488.20 Employee deployment 41,432 18,240,000 Travel 41,549.93 Total 41,549 18,293,123 Total 95,651.56 Intensity of GEI emissions Intensity of scope 2 GEI emissions Source Description Units tonCO2e Scope 2 emissions Scope 1 emissiones 8,325.49 45,488.869 (tonCO2e) Number of vehicles (fleet) 1,999 6.595 by Number of employees 6,900 employee Emissions intensity 4.1648 ton CO2 by vehicle Square meters area 188,542 0.2412 by meter2 Services emissions intensity (CO2 tons) Sources 2011 2012 2013 2014 CO2 tons (gasoline) 12,819 11,870 9,631 8,325 Services 1,050,022 1,025,581 893,806 890,309 Emissions intensity 0.012 0.011 0.010 0.009 In 2014, we installed aeolian energy infrastructure in 18 corporate building from AXTEL in order to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. GEI emissions reduction (CO2 tons) Goal Reduction Goal 2011 2012 2013 2014 2014 percentage 2015 Electricity 35,190 53,012 50,854 45,488 .50% 10.5% 1% Source Kwh Gigajoules GEI emissions 2011 to 2014 2011 2012 2013 2014 Aeolian energy 9,697,162 34,909.78 CO2 Tons 48,914.45 65,233.11 62,068.51 54,103.38 The methodologies and emission factors used for calculations were: GHG emissions fro purchased electricity version 4.4 (2012) http://geimexico.org/factor.html GHG Protocol tool for Mobile Combustion Version 2.5 (2013). GHG Protocol for stationary combustion Version 4.0 (2008). AXTEL 2014 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT / 49 ENVIRONMENTAL PERSPECTIVE Water G4-EN8 / G4-EN9 / G4-EN22 Our water consumption is mainly registered for the use In 2013 we committed to decrease water consumption by of our administrative facilities in restrooms, yards and air10%, a goal that we achieved. Thanks to the implemented conditioning units. The main sources come from municipal initiatives, we saved 13.62% of water. supply and, in some cases where the service is not available, from authorized underground sources. Total water consumption volume in cubic meters by sources in 2014 Reduction in Source Total consumption Reduction percentage consumed liters Underground water 18,815 15,185 44.66% Municipal water supply or by other water sources 212,524 21,306 10.02% Total 231,339 36,491 Water consumption 2011 a 2014 (cubic meters) Reduction 2011 2012 2013 2014 Goal 2014 Goal 2015 percentage Water 495,893 225,679 267,831 231,339 13.62% 10% 10% Water discharge and destination (liters) Drainage 231,339.95 Waste Management G4-EN1 / G4-EN23 / G4-EN25 We consistently work to reduce waste caused by our Also, we have procedures established in accordance to operations, in our administrative offices and those that come the Mexican Official Normas (NOM) and the Environment from the materials used to render our services. and resources Ministry (SEMARNAT) for the gathering of ink cartridges and toner for printers, batteries and obsolete Our Waste management Policy defines the procedures for the computer equipment that is generated by our administrative disposal of waste and provides the guidelines to identify the offices. waste that our company generates periodically. 50 / AXTEL 2014 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT ENVIRONMENTAL PERSPECTIVE AXTEL hires different suppliers for the management and Materials used in 2014 disposal of hazardous and non-hazardous waste. They are registered by the SEMARNAT, as well as by the Environment Renewable materials Protection Federal Agency at the federal level, and by state and municipal governmental institutions to guarantee Type Quantity (tons) their correct disposal and management. Most of the waste withdrawn by suppliers were destined to destruction and Cardboard 49.06 confinement. Plastic 3.26 Aluminium 2.91 Waste generated by AXTEL operations in 2014 Paper 9.91 Type of waste Tons Hazardous waste 103.85 Copper 9.975 Iron 3.616 Non-hazardous waste 1,585.95 Total 1,689.80 Steel 9.600 Glass 1.19 Total 97.55 Total quantity of waste by disposal method Non-renewable materials Disposal method Tons Type Quantity (liters) Reuse 9.60 Gasoline 3,765,268 Recycling 95.95 Gas 45,278 Garbage dump 1,490 Diesel 71,704 Onsite storage 51.99 Total 3,792,250 Destruction 42.26 Transported hazardous waste weight and destination Total weight in tons Destination Total percentage of waste Mina, Nuevo León; Ramos Arizpe, Hazardous transported waste 103.85 Coahuila; 6.14% Aguascalientes, Aguascalientes. AXTEL 2014 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT / 51 $ FINANCIAL PERSPECTIVE FINANCIAL PERSPECTIVE 2014 in numbers 3 thousand 023 million MXN in EBITDA One million 511 thousand Earning Generating Units7 (UGIs) 10 thousand 597 million MXN in earnings 605 thousand clients More than 12 million MXN in donations to the community 7 The sum of voice lines, broadband Internet subscribers, and video subscribers that generate recurring earnings for the company What did we work on during 2014? Since 2005 we are a public We issued bonds for 150 enterprise listed in the Mexican Million USD in the international Stock Exchange (AXTEL CPO), market which will be dedicated and for the second consecutive to investments related with year we are part of the IPC telecommunications and Sustainable enterprises for the Information technology integrated 2014-1015 period as the result services focused mainly on the -2015 period as a result of our business and government market. performance in 2013. AXTEL 2014 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT / 53 FINANCIAL PERSPECTIVE G4-EC1 Our financial results at the end of 2014 contribute in the due to the attractive industry dynamics promoted by the consolidation of our annual five % growth in our operating Telecommunications Reform. flow (EBITDA), an increase similar to the one achieved in 2013. This reassures the positive evolution of our operational By the end of 2014, AXTEL totaled one million 511 thousand results since the successful execution of the recapitalization Earning Generating Units (RGU’s ). In the broadband plan that concluded in January 2013. service, we reported 509 thousand subscribers. The total subscribers for AXTEL X-tremo increased to 179 thousand, During the last quarter of 2014, the operating flow also higher than the 148 thousand reported in 2013. Broadband increased five %, mainly influenced by an increase of almost service penetration in our client base reached 56 %, higher 30 % of earnings from consumption market subscribers than 54 % recorded by the end of 2013. connected with optical fiber, as well as the sustained level of recurring earnings in the business and government sectors. In regards to the subscriber base for AXTEL TV, we reported a total of 94 thousand by the end of 2014, above the 61 Perspectives of the company have improved, not only thousand reported a year ago. due to this positive evolution of the results, but also Outstanding Data Results (million MXN) 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 Revenues 10,597 10,286 10,190 10,829 10,652 (Loss) Operating Profit (500) 2,687 (535) 46 234 (Loss) Net Profit (1,919) 2,408 (709) (2,070) (397) Financial Situation (million MXN) Total assets 20,985 19,883 20,500 22,092 22,532 Total debt 15,279 12,355 15,412 16,290 14,697 Equity 5,706 7,528 5,088 5,802 7,633 Operating Cash flow (million MXN) Adjusted EBITDA 3,023 2,872 2,738 3,569 3,228 Measures EBITDA/Earnings 28.5% 27.9% 26.9% 33.0% 30.0% (Loss) Operating Profit / Earnings -4.7% 26.1% -5.2% 0.4% 2.2% (Loss) Net profit / earnings -18.1% 23.4% -7.0% -19.1% -3.0% Interest coverage 3.5 3.3 2.6 3.6 3.4 Liabilities / Equity 2.7 1.6 3.0 2.8 1.9 Total Personnel 6,900 6,791 6,541 8,024 9,007 Quarterly EBITDA Quarterly sales Broadband subscribers (million MXN) (million MXN) (thousands) by quarter 786 769 739 729 2,383 2,570 2,673 2,971 509 518 517 514 4th 3rd 2nd 1st 4th 3rd 2nd 1st 4th 3rd 2nd 1st 8 The sum of voice lines, broadband Internet subscribers and video subscribers that generate recurring revenues for the company. 54 / AXTEL 2014 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT FINANCIAL PERSPECTIVE Economic Performance reported according to Mexican Financial Information Standards (thousands of MXN) Concept 2011 2012 2013 2014 Income 10,829,405 10,189,732 10,286,494 10,597,003 Economic Value Generated Earning due to Interests 22,340 21,967 16,229 16,615 (VEG) Other Earnings 3,111,948 VEG 10,851,745 10,211,699 13,414,671 10,613,618 Operating Costs -328,622 -458,001 -815,961 -845,224 Acquired Services (Outsourcing) -427,981 -425,474 -398,487 -400,168 Economic Social Benefits (Payroll and Derivates) -2,020,598 -1,956,608 -1,759,615 -1,838,729 Distributed Value (VED) Taxes paid -25,245 -68,028 -75,380 -52,205 Payment to fund suppliers -969,724 -1,038,946 -756,135 -720,303 Community Investments (Donations) -22,068 -14,702 -10,510 -12,984 Other Expenses -419,450 -199,987 -78,844 -87,670 VED -4.213,688 -4,161,646 -3,894,932 -3,957,283 Retained Economic VEG + VED 6,638,057 6,050,053 9,519,739 6,656,335 Value Information starting in the year 2012 has been prepared under International Financial Reporting Systems (IFRS). Information in 2010 and prior has been prepared under the Mexican Financial Reporting Standards (NIF in Spanish). Annual sales (million MXN) Annual EBITDA (million MXN) Broadband subscribers (thousands) 2014 10,597 2014 3,023 2014 509 2013 10,286 2013 2,872 2013 506 2012 10,190 2012 2,738 2012 493 2011 10,829 2011 3,569 2011 436 2010 10,652 2010 3,228 2010 315 2009 10,969 2009 3,829 2009 162 2008 11,572 2008 4,075 2008 92 AXTEL 2014 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT / 55 FINANCIAL PERSPECTIVE Comments and Analysis of the Administration regarding the Operating Results and Financial Situation of the Issuer Operation Results for years ended decrease in equipment sales which have a lower margin than integrated services. December 31, 2014 and 2013 International Traffic. The revenue for completion of international traffic added Revenues up Ps. 1,234 million in the twelve month period ended on December 31, 2014, a 62% increase compared to the same For the twelve month period ended December 31, 2014, period for 2013, explained by an increases in transit traffic, or total revenues reached Ps. 10,597 million, compared with traffic that does not terminate in Mexico, which has a higher Ps.10,287 million for the year ended 2013, an increase of Ps. price. 311 million, or 3%. Other Services. Axtel’s revenues derive from the following services: For the twelve month period ended December 31, 2014 revenue from other services added up Ps. 364 million, a 6% Local Services. decrease from Ps. 387 million recorded on the same period in Revenue from local services for the twelve month period 2013. concluded on December 31, 2014 added up Ps. 2,970 million, compared with Ps. 3,208 million recorded for the same period Operating Metrics of the previous year, a reduction of Ps. 239 million or 7% explained by Ps. 102, Ps. 39 and Ps. 98 million reductions RGUs and Customers. in monthly rents, measured services and fixed-to-mobile As of December 31, 2014, RGUs (Revenue Generating Units) revenues, respectively. The decline in revenues of fix to added up one million 511 thousand, similar to the 2013 figure. mobile calls and in measured service is due to declines in During 2014, net additions totaled 7 thousand compared to 13 volume and prices. thousand during the previous year. As of December 31, 2014, customers totaled 605 thousand, a decrease of 35 thousand Long Distance Services. or 5% compared to the same date in 2013. For the twelve month period concluded on December 31, 2014, revenue for long distance totaled Ps. 1,016 million Voice RGUs (Lines in Service). compared to Ps. 1,140 million recorded for the same period As of December 31, 2014, the lines in service added up of 2013, a decrease of Ps. 124 million or 11%, due to an 8% 908 thousand, which represents a decrease of 28 thousand decline in price. lines compared to December 31, 2013. During 2014, gross additional lines reached 210 thousand compared to 207 Internet & Video thousand during 2013. Disconnections during 2014 and 2013 For year 2014, revenues for Internet and video services reached 238 thousand and 267 thousand respectively. As of amounted Ps. 1,337 million, a 28% increase compared with December 31, 2014, residential lines represented 58% of total year 2013, mainly due to a 14% increase in internet to the lines in service. mass market and the new pay-tv service which started in January 2013, due to the good performance of Axtel X-tremo Broadband RGUs (Broadband Subscribers). offers based on our FTTH or fiber to the home network. Broadband subscribers reached 509 thousand as of December 31, 2014. During this year, broadband subscribers Data and Networks. increased 3 thousand compared to 13 thousand the For the twelve month period concluded on December 31, previous year. As of December 31, 2014, WiMAX or 2014, revenue for networks and data services reached Ps. wireless subscribers reached 330 thousand, compared to 1,898 million, from Ps. 1,860 million in 2013, an increase of 358 thousand a year ago, while Axtel X-tremo, or FTTH, Ps. 38 million, or 2%, explained by a 6% increase in private subscribers reached 179 thousand compared to 148 lines. thousand a year ago. The slower pace in broadband additions is mainly due to the acceleration in WiMAX Integrated Services and Equipment Sales. disconnections during the second semester of 2014 that Revenues totaled Ps. 1,779 million for year 2014, compared could not be totally compensated with additions of FTTH with Ps. 1,884 million during 2013, representing a Ps. 105 subscribers. Broadband penetration reached 56% at the end million or 6% decrease. This is mainly explained by a 64% of 2014, compared to 54% a year ago. 56 / AXTEL 2014 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT FINANCIAL PERSPECTIVE Video RGUs (Video Subscribers). Mexican peso in 2014 and the gain in 2013 resulting from the As of December 31, 2014, video subscribers reached debt exchange concluded on January 2013. 94 thousand, compared to 61 thousand a year ago; the penetration of video in our FTTH subscribers’ base increased Taxes from 41% in 2013 to 52% in 2014. In 2014 the income tax benefit was of Ps. 538 million, Cost of Revenues and Expenses compared with an income tax of Ps. 1,018 million last year. Cost of Revenues. Net Income (Loss) During the twelve month period ended December 31, 2014, the cost of revenues reached Ps. 3,097 million, an increase of The Company reported a net loss of Ps. 1,919 million in the Ps. 113 million with respect to 2013, explained by increases in twelve months ended December 31, 2014, compared with a costs related to international traffic service due to an increase net gain of Ps. 2,408 million in 2013. This loss is explained by in transit traffic volume, or traffic that does not terminate in the changes outlined above, including the foreign exchange Mexico, which has a higher price and, likewise, a higher cost. loss from the devaluation of the Mexican peso relative to the U.S. dollar. Gross Profit. Gross profit is defined as revenues minus cost of sales. For Capital Investments the twelve month period ended December 31, 2014, the gross profit reached Ps. 7,500 million, from Ps. 7,302 million For the twelve month period ended December 31, 2014, recorded in 2013, a 3% increase. This was mainly due to capital investments totaled Ps. 2,837 million, compared to increases in the gross profit of internet and video services, Ps. 2,118 million in the year 2013. This variation reflects the partially mitigated by a decline in local service. Company’s corporate strategy to focus exclusively on projects of greater value for customers, principally the deployment Operating Expenses. of fiber and cloud-based ICT products for the enterprise and For the twelve month period ended December 31, 2014, the government segment. operating expenses totaled Ps. 4,477 million from Ps. 4,430 million for the same period in 2013, a 1% increase due to a 4% increase in personnel and 12% increase in maintenance Financial Position as of December 31, expenses, partially compensated by decrease in rents and 2014 and as of December 31, 2013. marketing. Personnel expenses represented 41% of the total expenses for the twelve month period ended December 31, 2014. Assets Adjusted EBITDA. As of December 31, 2014, total assets amounted to The adjusted EBITDA, defined as gross profit plus expenses Ps. 20,985 million compared to Ps. 19,883 million as of for net interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, December 31, 2013, an increase of Ps. 1,102 million or 6%. and adjusted for extraordinary non-recurrent income and expenses reached Ps. 3,023 million, compared to Ps. 2,872 Cash and Equivalents. million for the same period in 2013. As a percentage of As of December 31, 2014, we had cash and equivalents revenues, the margin was of 28.5% for 2014, 61 basis points of Ps. 2,698 million compared to Ps. 1,292 million as of higher than the margin for 2013. December 31, 2013, an increase of Ps. 1,406 million or 109% due to, among other things, the 2020 Secured Notes Depreciation and Amortization. reopening for US$150 million and an improvement in working The depreciation and amortization for the twelve month capital. period ended on December 31, 2014 was of Ps. 3,435 million, compared to Ps. 3,219 million for the same period in 2013, an Accounts Receivable. increase of Ps. 217 million. As of December 31, 2014, the accounts receivable were Ps. 2,426 million compared with Ps. 2,982 million as of December Operating income (loss). 31, 2013, a decrease of Ps. 556 million or 19%. For the twelve month period ended December 31, 2014, the operating loss reached Ps. 500 million, compared to Property, Systems and Equipment, net. an operating income of Ps. 2,687 million in 2013, a Ps. As of December 31, 2014, property, systems and equipment, 3,186 million variation mainly due to the gain related to the net, reached Ps. 12,962 million compared with Ps. 13,187 telecommunication towers sale in January 2013. million as of December 31, 2013, a decrease of Ps. 226 million. The property, systems and equipment, without Comprehensive Financial Result discounting the accumulated depreciation, was Ps. 40,885 million and Ps. 38,148 million as of December 31, 2014 and The comprehensive financing cost was of Ps. 1,954 million in 2013, respectively. 2014, compared to a gain of Ps. 737 million in 2013 mainly due to the foreign exchange loss from the devaluation of the AXTEL 2014 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT / 57 FINANCIAL PERSPECTIVE Liabilities Cash flow As of December 31, 2014, total liabilities reached Ps. 15,279 As of December 31, 2014 and 2013, net cash flows derived million compared to Ps. 12,355 million as of December 31, from operating activities were Ps. 3,440 million and Ps. 2,559 2013, an increase of Ps. 2,924 million, mainly due to the 2020 million respectively. Secured Notes US$150 million reopening in September 2014. As of December 31, 2014 and 2013 net cash flows (used Accounts Payable and Accrued Expenses. in) generated by the Company in investing activities were As of December 31, 2014, the accounts payable and accrued Ps. (2,847) million and Ps. 1,050 million respectively. These expenses were Ps. 2,347 million compared with Ps. 2,741 amounts reflect investments in property, systems and million as of December 31, 2013, a decrease of Ps. 394 equipment of Ps. 2,837 million and Ps. 2,118 million for 2014 million, or 14%. and 2013 respectively. Debt. As of December 31, 2014 net cash flows (used in) generated As of December 31, 2014, total debt reached Ps. 10,996 by financing activities were Ps. 970 million mainly due to the million, an increase of Ps. 3,132 million in comparison with 2020 Secured Notes reopening and Ps. (2,934) million in the same date in 2013, explained by (i) a Ps. 1,859 million 2013. net increase related to the $150 million reopening of the 2020 Secured Notes, (ii) an increase of Ps. 103 million in As of December 31, 2014, the net debt to adjusted EBITDA leases and other financial obligations, (iii) a Ps. 91 million ratio and the interest coverage ratio of the Company were decrease related to the notes’ discount, issuance and 2.7x and 3.4x, respectively. Likewise, as of December 31, deferred financing costs, (iv) a Ps. 41 million increase related 2013, the net debt to adjusted EBITDA ratio and interest to the implicit derivative instrument embedded in the Senior coverage ratio were 2.3x and 3.3x respectively. Secured Convertible Notes and (v) a Ps. 1,221 million noncash increase caused by the 11% depreciation of the Mexican peso. Stockholders’ Equity As of December 31, 2014, the stockholders’ equity of the Company totaled Ps. 5,706 million compared with Ps. 7,528 million as of December 31, 2013, a decrease of Ps. 1,822 million or 24%. The capital stock was Ps. 6,728 million as of December 31, 2014 compared to Ps. 6,628 million as of December 31, 2013, a slight increase mainly due to the conversion of some of the Company’s Senior Secured Convertible Notes due 2020. Liquidity and Capital Resources Historically the Company has relied primarily on vendor financing, the proceeds of the sale of securities, internal cash from operations, funds obtained from the issuance of debt in international markets, and the proceeds from bank debt to fund our operations, capital expenditures and working capital requirements. Additionally, and subject to (i) market conditions, (ii) our liquidity position and (iii) contractual obligations, from time to time, the Company might acquire senior secured and unsecured notes in the open market or in privately negotiated transactions. Although we believe that we would be able to meet our debt service obligations and fund our operating requirements in the future with cash flow from operations, the Company may seek additional financing with commercial banks or in the capital markets from time to time depending on market conditions and the Company’s financial requirements. The Company will continue to focus on investments in fixed assets and working capital management, including the collection of accounts receivable and management of accounts payable. 58 / AXTEL 2014 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT FINANCIAL PERSPECTIVE Independent Auditors’ Report (Translation from Spanish Language Original) (Mexican Pesos [Ps.] except where indicated U.S. which refers to US dollar) To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of Axtel, S.A.B. de C.V.: We have audited the accompanying consolidated financial statements of well as evaluating the overall presentation of the consolidated financial Axtel, S.A.B. de C.V., and subsidiaries (the Company), which comprise statements. the consolidated statements of financial position as of December 31, 2014 and 2013 and the consolidated statements of comprehensive We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and income, changes in stockholders’ equity and cash flows for the years appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion. ended December 31, 2014 and 2013 and notes, comprising a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information. Opinion Management’s responsibility for the consolidated financial statements In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of Axtel, S.A.B. Management is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of de C.V., and subsidiaries, as of December 31, 2014 and 2013 and the these consolidated financial statements in accordance with International consolidated results of their operations and consolidated cash flows Financial Reporting Standards, and for such internal control as for the years ended December 31, 2014 and 2013, in accordance with management determines is necessary to enable the preparation International Financial Reporting Standards. of consolidated financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. Emphasis paragraphs Auditors’ responsibility Without qualifying our opinion, we draw attention to the following: Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated financial (a) As mentioned in notes 2 and 13, on September 17, 2014, the statements based on our audits. We conducted our audits in accordance Company completed an offering of secured bonds due in 2020 by with International Auditing Standards. Those standards require that U.S.$ 150 million, the bonds were issued at a price of 100.25% of we comply with ethical requirements and plan and perform the audit to their principal value with the same conditions and interest rates of obtain reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated financial current bonds. statements are free from material misstatement. (b) As mentioned in notes 19 (b) and 19 (c), the Company has An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about contingencies related to interconnection rates with mobile operators the amounts and disclosures in the consolidated financial statements. and with long distance terminating calls with one of its main The procedures selected depend on our judgment, including the suppliers. As of December 31, 2014, the difference between the assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the consolidated amounts paid by the Company and the amounts billed by the mobile financial statements, whether due to fraud or error. In making operators and one of its main suppliers amounted to approximately those risk assessments, we consider internal control relevant to the $2,251 and $1,240 million of pesos, respectively, before value added entity’s preparation and fair presentation of the consolidated financial tax. As of the date of this report, Company Management and legal statements in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in counsel consider that they have sufficient elements for a favorable the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on outcome in the trials related to these contingencies. the effectiveness of the entity’s internal control. An audit also includes evaluating the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates made by management, as KPMG Cardenas Dosal, S.C. KPMG Cardenas Dosal Oficinas en el Parque Torre II Blvd. Díaz Ordaz 140 Pte. Pisos 16 y 17 Col. Santa María, 64650 Monterrey, N.L. C.P.C. R. Sergio López Lara February 27, 2015 Teléfono: +01 (81) 8122 1818 Monterrey, N.L. México Fax: +01 (81) 8333 0532 www.kpmg.com.mx AXTEL 2014 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT / 59 FINANCIAL PERSPECTIVE AXTEL, S.A.B. DE C.V. AND SUBSIDIARIES Consolidated Statements of Financial Position These financial statements have been translated from Years ended December 31, 2014 and 2013 Spanish language original and for the convenience of (Thousands of mexican pesos) foreign English – speaking readers NOTE 2014 2013 ASSETS Current assets: Cash and cash equivalents 8 Ps 2,697,835 1,292,263 Accounts receivable, net 9 2,426,167 2,981,732 Refundable taxes 48,629 57,219 Advance to suppliers 112,763 65,578 Inventories 67,097 106,313 Financial instruments 8e 121,999 142,200 Other accounts receivable 104,562 103,699 Other current assets 12 225,331 130,492 Total current assets 5,804,383 4,879,496 Long-term accounts receivable 230,752 333,751 Property, systems and equipment 10 12,961,543 13,187,187 Intangible assets 11 173,962 223,792 Deferred income taxes 15 1,675,202 1,101,937 Investments in associate 8,217 11,640 Other assets 12 131,039 144,849 Total assets Ps 20,985,098 19,882,652 LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY Current liabilities: Accounts payable and accrued liabilities Ps 2,347,302 2,741,308 Accrued interest 458,822 278,807 Taxes payable 363,351 285,987 Short-term debt 8 y 13b 130,000 Current maturities of long-term debt 13a 220,554 308,945 Deferred revenue 14 695,868 583,915 Other current liabilities and payroll accruals 96,018 100,473 Total current liabilities 4,311,915 4,299,453 Long-term debt 13a 10,645.447 7,555,374 Derivative financial instruments 8d 46,952 116,658 Other long term liabilities 216,039 328,297 Employee benefits 25,127 21,330 Deferred revenue 14 33,900 33,900 Total liabilities 15,279,380 12,354,994 Stockholders’ equity: Common stock 16 6,728,342 6,627,890 Additional paid-in capital 16 644,710 644,710 Reserve for repurchase of own shares 16 90,000 162,334 Retained comprehensive (deficit) earnings 16 (1,757,334) 92,724 Total stockholders’ equity 5,705,718 7,527,658 Commitments and contingencies 19 Total liabilities and stockholders’ equity Ps 20,985,098 19,882,652 The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial statements. 60 / AXTEL 2014 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT FINANCIAL PERSPECTIVE AXTEL, S.A.B. DE C.V. AND SUBSIDIARIES Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income These financial statements have been translated from Years ended December 31, 2014 and 2013 Spanish language original and for the convenience of (Thousands of mexican pesos except for the basic (loss) income per share) foreign English – speaking readers NOTE 2014 2013 Telephone services and related revenues 17 Ps 10,597,003 10,286,494 Operating costs and expenses: Cost of sales and services (3,097,105) (2,984,573) Selling and administrative expenses (4,576,849) (4,429,798) 10 and Depreciation and amortization (3,435,082) (3,218,539) 11 Gain on sale of communications towers 2 and 10 3,111,948 Other operating expenses (87,670) (78,844) Operating (loss) income (499,703) 2,686,688 10 and Interest expense (875,745) (882,454) 13 Interest income 16,615 16,229 Foreign exchange (loss) gain, net (1,073,210) 39,682 Result from the exchange of debt, net 2 1,568,983 Change in the fair value and settlements of financial instruments, net 8 (21,272) (5,303) Net finance costs (1,953,612) 737,137 Equity (loss) in earnings of associated company (3,423) 1,992 (Loss) income before income taxes (2,456,738) 3,425,817 INCOME TAXES: Current 15 (34,459) (50,817) Deferred 15 572,596 (967,321) Total income tax benefit (expense) 538,137 (1,018,138) Net (loss) income Ps (1,918,601) 2,407,679 OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME ITEMS: Actuarial result 16c (3,791) Valuation effects of cash flow hedges, net of income taxes 16c 29,351 Comprehensive (loss) income Ps (1,922,392) 2,437,030 Weighted average number of common shares outstanding 8,871,168,855 8,770,179,989 Basic (loss) income per share Ps (0.22) 0.27 Las notas adjuntas forman parte integral de los estados financieros consolidados. AXTEL 2014 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT / 61 FINANCIAL PERSPECTIVE AXTEL, S.A.B. DE C.V. AND SUBSIDIARIES Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows These financial statements have been translated from Years ended December 31, 2014 and 2013 Spanish language original and for the convenience of (Thousands of mexican pesos) foreign English – speaking readers 2014 2013 Cash flows from operating activities: Net (loss) income Ps (1,918,601) 2,407,679 Adjustments for: Income taxes (538,137) 1,018,138 Foreign exchange loss (gain), net 1,073,210 (39,682) Depreciation 3,380,966 3,167,254 Amortization 54,116 51,285 Impairment loss recognized on trade receivables 173,941 199,524 Gain on sale of property, system and equipment (1,312) (1,716) Allowance for obsolete and slow-moving of inventories 1,967 25,773 Gain on sale of communications towers (3,111,948) Equity (loss) in earnings of associated company 3,423 (1,992) Interest expense 875,745 882,454 Amortization of premium on bond issuance (1,601) (2,090) Result from the exchange of debt, net (1,568,983) Fair value gain and settlement of financial instruments 21,272 5,303 3,124,989 3,030,999 Movements in working capital: Increase (decrease) in accounts receivable and other accounts receivable 393,665 (645,708) Increase (decrease) in inventories 39,215 (842) (Decrease) increase in accounts payable and other accounts payable (491,729) 337,071 Increase (decrease) in deferred revenue 111,953 (47,383) Cash generated from operating activities 3,178,093 2,764,137 Taxes paid (52,205) (75,380) Net cash from operating activities 3,125,888 2,598,757 Cash flows from investing activities: Acquisition and construction of property, systems and equipment (2,837,222) (2,118,210) Sale of property, systems and equipment 5,176 3,164,046 Payments of in financial instruments (19,924) Other assets 4,752 4,205 Net cash (used in) generated from investing activities (2,847,218) 1,050,041 Cash flows from financing activities: Interest paid (720,303) (756,135) Exchange of debt (1,326,887) Proceeds of notes 1,887,747 442,014 Proceeds of bank loans 460,000 Payments of bank loans (330,000) (1,042,116) Other loans, net (327,401) (173,375) Proceeds from issuance of capital stock 384 Payments of derivative financial instruments (77,982) Net cash flow generated from (used in) financing activities 970,043 (2,934,097) Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 1,248,713 714,701 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of the year 1,292,263 597,201 Effects of exchange rate fluctuations on cash and cash equivalents held 156,859 (19,639) Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year Ps 2,697,835 1,292,263 The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial statements. 62 / AXTEL 2014 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT FINANCIAL PERSPECTIVE AXTEL, S.A.B. DE C.V. AND SUBSIDIARIES Consolidated Statements of Changes in Stockholders’ Equity These financial statements have been translated from Years ended December 31, 2014 and 2013 Spanish language original and for the convenience of (Thousands of mexican pesos) foreign English – speaking readers Additional Reserves for Retained Total Capital paid-in repurchase of comprehensive stockholders’ stock capital own shares earnings (Deficit) equity Balances as of December 31, 2012 Ps 6,625,536 644,710 162,334 (2,344,306) 5,088,274 Increase of capital stock (note 16a) 2,354 2,354 Comprehensive income (note 16c) 2,437,030 2,437,030 Balances as of December 31, 2013 6,627,890 644,710 162,334 92,724 7,527,658 Increase of capital stock (note 16a) 100,452 100,452 Change on reserves for repurchase of (72,334) 72,334 own shares Comprehensive loss (note 16c) (1,922,392) (1,922,392) Balances as of December 31, 2014 Ps 6,728,342 644,710 90,000 (1,757,334) 5,705,718 The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial statements. AXTEL 2014 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT / 63 FINANCIAL PERSPECTIVE AXTEL, S.A.B. DE C.V. AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements These financial statements have been translated from At December 31, 2014 and 2013 Spanish language original and for the convenience of (Thousands of mexican pesos) foreign English – speaking readers (1) Reporting entity Axtel, S.A.B. de C.V. and Subsidiaries (AXTEL and/or The merger became effective as of February 27, 2013 and has no Company) was incorporated in México as a corporation. The impact on operations at the consolidated level. corporate domicile of the Company is located in Blvd. Díaz Ordaz km 3.33 L-1, Colonia Unidad San Pedro, 66215 San On January 31, 2013, the Company completed the sale of Pedro Garza García, Nuevo León, Mexico. 883 sites to MATC Digital Telecommunications, S. de R.L. de C.V. (“MATC”), a subsidiary of American Tower Corporation, The Company’s consolidated financial statements for the in the amount of U.S. $ 249 million. This transaction resulted years ended December 31, 2014 and 2013, include The in a gain of Ps. 3,111,948 which is presented as operating Company and its subsidiaries (collectively referred as “the income in the accompanying condensed consolidated Company” and individually as “entities of the Company”) statement of comprehensive income. Additionally, the Company agreed to lease certain spaces at these locations The Company is engaged in operating and/or exploiting a in terms ranging from 6 to 15 years, depending on the type public telecommunication network to provide voice, sound, of technology installed at each site, for a net yearly cost of data, text, and image conducting services, and local, approximately U.S. $ 20 million. domestic and international long-distance calls and pay-tv services. A concession is required to provide these services Simultaneously, the Company completed the exchange of and carry out the related activities, (see notes 5 (k) and 11). U.S.$ 142 and U.S.$ 355 million of unsecured notes due In June 1996, the Company obtained a concession from the in 2017 and 2019, respectively, for U.S.$ 249 and U.S.$ Mexican Federal Government to install, operate and exploit 22 million dollars secured bond and a convertible bond, public telecommunication networks for an initial period of respectively, both with initial interest rate of 7% which will thirty years. be increase to 8% in the first anniversary date and to 9% in the second anniversary date, and due in 2020, plus a cash payment of U.S. $83 million to participating holders. Holders (2) Significant events of the convertible notes may elect to convert their Convertible Dollar-Indexed Notes Into ADSs of CPOs at any time after On September 17, 2014, The Company completed the 120th calendar day following the issue date and prior to the reopening of its secured bonds issuance due in 2020 for close of business on the fourth business day immediately United States of America dollar (U.S.) $150 million at a priced preceding the maturity date for the convertible notes, or at at 100.25% of the principal amount with the same terms and the election of the Company such conversion may be settled interest rates of the secured notes due in 2020 referred to in in cash. This transaction resulted in a gain of Ps.1,538,325 the following paragraphs. which is presented in other income in the accompanying consolidated statements of comprehensive income. During December 31, 2013, the Company completed the exchange of U.S.$ 82.5 million and U.S.$ 32.8 million of Additionally, the Company made the full payment of the unsecured notes due in 2017 and 2019, respectively, for remaining balance of the syndicated loan, interest and related U.S.$ 110 million of secured bonds due in 2020 with the derivative transactions, amounting approximately U.S.$ 88 same conditions and interest rates described in the January million. 2013 exchange mentioned in the following paragraphs. This transaction resulted in a gain of Ps. 30,658 which is presented in the accompanying consolidated statements of comprehensive income. In addition, on December 13 and 26, 2013, the Company closed an offering of additional 2020 Notes for U.S. 26 million and U.S.10 million, additional bonds were issued at a price of 93.75% of their principal value. According to the unanimous resolutions adopted by the shareholders of Axtel Capital, S. de R.L. de C.V. (Axtel Capital) and Avantel, S. de RL de C.V. (Avantel), on February 15, 2013 the merger of Axtel Capital (as the merger company), with Avantel (as the merging company), the 64 / AXTEL 2014 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT FINANCIAL PERSPECTIVE (3) Consolidation of financial statements Based on IFRS 10, “Consolidated Financial Statements”, the consolidated financial statements include those of Axtel, and those of the entities over which it exercises control on the financial and operating policies. The subsidiaries included in the consolidated interim financial statements are presented as follows: Subsidiary Activity % Equity Interest Instalaciones y Contrataciones, S.A. de C.V. (“Icosa”) Administrative services 100% Servicios Axtel, S.A. de C.V. (“Servicios Axtel”) Administrative services 100% Avantel, S. de R.L. de C.V. (“Avantel”) Telecommunication services 100% Avantel Infraestructura S. de R.L. de C.V. (“Avantel Infraestructura”) Telecommunication services 100% Telecom Network, Inc (“Telecom”) Telecommunication services 100% Avantel Networks, S.A. de C.V. (“Avantel Network”) Telecommunication services 100% Axes Data, S.A. de C.V. (“Axes Data”) Administrative services 100% Contacto IP, S.A. de C.V. (“Contacto IP”) Administrative services 100% Axtel Capital S. de R.L. de C.V. (“Axtel Capital”) Administrative services 100% The Company owns directly or indirectly 100% of the subsidiaries. Intercompany balances, investments and transactions were eliminated in the consolidation process. (4) Basis of preparation a) Statement of compliance c) Functional and presentation currency This consolidated financial statements has been prepared These consolidated financial statements are presented in accordance with the International Financial Reporting in thousands of mexican pesos, which is the Company’s Standards (IFRS). functional currency. All financial information presented in pesos or “Ps.”, are thousands of Mexican pesos; likewise, This consolidated financial statements was authorized references to dollars or U.S. $, or USD refer to thousands of for issue by the Company’s Director of Administration on dollars of the United States of America and has been rounded February 27, 2015. to the nearest unit (M$), unless indicated otherwise.. Under the Mexican General Corporation Law (“Ley General d) Presentation of the consolidated statement of de Sociedades Mercantiles”) and bylaws of the Company, comprehensive income shareholders are empowered to amend the financial statements after its issuance. The accompanying financial The Company has elected to analyze expenses recognized in statements will be submitted for approval at the next profit and loss based on functions, as the Company believes Shareholders’ Meeting. that in this way the information presented is reliable and more relevant. b) Basis of measurement The Company presents the result from operating activities The information presented in the consolidated financial since considers it as a significant performance measurement statements has been prepared on a historical cost basis, for users of financial information. Revenues and costs that except for certain financial instruments which were recorder are of an operational nature are presented in this item. at fair value and the liability recognized for employee benefit since this is recognized at the present value of the obligation. AXTEL 2014 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT / 65 FINANCIAL PERSPECTIVE e) Presentation of the consolidated statement of cash appropriate, on initial recognition. Transaction costs directly flows attributable to the acquisition of financial assets at fair value through profit or loss are recognized immediately in profit or The consolidated statements of cash flows of the Company loss. are presented using the indirect method. Financial assets are classified within the following specific categories: “financial assets at fair value with changes (5) Significant accounting policies through profit or loss” and “accounts receivable and other accounts receivable”. The classification depends on the The accounting policies set out below have been applied nature and purpose thereof and is determined upon initial consistently to all periods presented in these consolidated recognition. financial statements. a) Transactions eliminated on consolidation Financial assets valued at fair value through profit or loss Financial assets are classified as at fair value through profit or The balances and transactions between the entities of the loss if they are acquired to be sold in a short term. Derivative Company, as well as unrealized income and expenses, financial instruments are classified at fair value through profit have been eliminated in preparing the consolidated financial or loss, unless they are designated as hedging instruments. statements. Financial assets classified at fair value through profit or loss is recognized initially at fair value, and subsequently changes in b) Foreign currency transactions fair value are recognized in income or loss in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income. Based on IAS 21, “Effects of changes in foreign currency” (“IAS 21”), transactions in foreign currencies are converted to the respective functional currencies of the entities of Accounts receivable and other accounts receivable the Company at exchange rates prevailing at the dates of Trade accounts receivable and other accounts receivable operations. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in with fixed or determinable payments that are not traded on foreign currencies at the reporting date are converted back an active market are classified as “Accounts receivable”. to the functional currency at the exchange rate at that date. According to IAS 39, “Financial Instruments: Recognition The gain or loss on monetary items is the difference between and valuation” (“IAS 39”), concepts within this category amortized cost in the functional currency at the beginning have no explicit cost and are recognized at amortized cost, of the period, adjusted for effective interest and payments it means, the net present value of accounts receivable at during the period, and the amortized cost in foreign currency the date of transaction. Due to their short maturity, the converted at the exchange rate at end of period being Company recognizes initially these accounts at original value reported. less allowance for doubtful accounts. Allowance for doubtful accounts and impairment of other accounts receivable are c) Cash and cash equivalents recognized in the selling and administrative expenses in Statement of Comprehensive Income. Interest income is Cash and cash equivalents consist of short-term investments, recognized applying the effective interest rate method. highly liquid, readily convertible into cash and are subject to insignificant risk of changes in value, including overnight repurchase agreements and certificates of deposit with an Effective interest method initial term of less than three months. At December 31, 2014 The effective interest method is a method of calculating and 2013, include cash equivalents consisting of money the amortized cost of a debt instrument and allocating market for Ps. 1,560,804 and Ps. 633,916, respectively. interest income or financial cost over the relevant period. The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts d) Financial assets estimated future cash receipts or payments (including all fees and basis points paid or received that form an integral Financial assets are recognized when the Company becomes part of the effective interest rate, transaction costs and other a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument. premiums or discounts) through the expected life of the debt instrument, or, where appropriate, a shorter period, to the net Financial assets and financial liabilities are offset and the net carrying amount. amount is reported in the statement of financial position when there is a legally enforceable right to offset the recognized amounts and the intention is to settle them on a net basis or Write-off of financial assets to realize the asset and settle the liability simultaneously. The Company writes off a financial asset solely where the contractual rights over the financial asset cash flows expire or Financial assets are initially measured at fair value. substantially transfers the risks and benefits inherent to the Transaction costs that are directly attributable to the ownership of the financial asset. acquisition or issue of financial assets (other than financial assets at fair value through profit or loss) are added to or deducted from the fair value of the financial assets, as 66 / AXTEL 2014 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT FINANCIAL PERSPECTIVE e) Impairment of financial instruments various hedge transactions. Furthermore, at the inception of the hedge and on an ongoing basis, the Company documents The Company assesses at each financial reporting date whether the hedging instrument is highly effective in offsetting whether there is any objective evidence that a financial asset changes in fair values or cash flows of the hedged item or a group of financial assets is impaired. A financial asset or attributable to the hedged risk. This documentation includes a group of financial assets is deemed to be impaired if, and the identification of the derivative financial instrument, the only if, there is objective evidence of impairment as a result of item or transaction being hedged, the nature of the risk to one or more events that occurred after the initial recognition be reduced, and the manner in which its effectiveness to of the asset and that had a negative impact on the estimated diminish fluctuations in fair value of the primary position or future cash flows that can be reliably estimated. Evidence of cash flows attributable to the hedged risk will be assessed. impairment may include indications that the debtor or a group The expectation is that the hedge will be highly effective in of debtors are experiencing significant financial difficulty, offsetting changes in fair values or cash flows, which are default or delinquency in interest or principal payments, the continually assessed to determine whether they are actually probability that they will enter bankruptcy or other financial effective throughout the reporting periods to which they have reorganization and when observable data indicate that there been assigned. Hedges that meet the criteria are recorded as is a measurable decrease in the estimated future cash flows. explained in the following paragraphs. Financial assets carried at amortized cost Cash flow hedges If there is objective evidence of an impairment loss, the For derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow amount of the loss is measured as the difference between the hedges and the effective portion of changes in fair value are book value of the asset and the present value of expected recorded as a separate component in stockholders’ equity future cash flows (excluding expected future credit losses that within other comprehensive income and are recorded to the have not yet been incurred). The present value of expected consolidated interim statement of comprehensive income future cash flows is discounted at the financial asset’s original at the settlement date, as part of the sales, cost of sales effective interest rate. The carrying amount of the asset is and financial expenses, as the case may be. The ineffective then reduced through a provision and the amount of the loss portion of changes in the fair value of cash flow hedges is is recognized in the consolidated statement of comprehensive recognized in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income. The loans and the related provisions are written off income of the period. when there is no realistic possibility of future recovery and all of the collateral guarantees have been realized or transferred If the hedging instrument matures or is sold, terminated or to the Company. If, in a subsequent year, the amount of the exercised without replacement or continuous financing, or if estimated impairment loss increases or decreases due to its designation as a hedge is revoked, any cumulative gain or an event that occurs after the impairment was recognized, loss recognized directly within other comprehensive income the previously recognized impairment loss is increased in stockholders’ equity from the effective date of the hedge, or reduced by adjusting the provision account. If a future remains separated from equity until the forecasted transaction write-off is later recovered, the recovery is credited to the occurs when it is recognized in income. When a forecasted consolidated interim statement of comprehensive income. transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative If there is objective evidence of impairment in financial gain or loss recognized in stockholders’ equity is immediately assets that are individually significant, or collectively for carried to profit and loss. Derivatives designated as hedges financial assets that are not individually significant, or if the that are effective hedging instruments are classified based on Company determines there to be no objective evidence the classification of the underlying. The derivative instrument of impairment for an individually assessed financial asset, is divided into a short-term portion and a long-term portion whether significant or not, the asset is included in a group only if a reliable assignation can be performed. At December of financial assets with similar credit risk characteristics and 31, 2014 and 2013, the Company has no open positions of they are collectively evaluated for impairment. Assets that cash flow hedges. are assessed individually for impairment and for which an impairment loss is or continues to be recognized are not Embedded derivatives included in the collective evaluation of impairment. This type of derivatives is valued at fair value and changes f) Derivative financial instruments in fair value are recognized in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income. Hedging instruments g) Fair value of financial instruments The Company recognizes all derivative financial instruments as financial assets and/or liabilities, that are assessed The fair value of financial instruments that are traded in active at fair value. At the inception of the hedge relationship, markets at each reporting date is determined by reference the Company documents the relationship between the to quoted market prices or dealer price quotations (bid price hedging instrument and the hedged item, along with its risk for long positions and ask price for short positions), without management objectives and its strategy for undertaking any deduction for transaction costs. For financial instruments AXTEL 2014 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT / 67 FINANCIAL PERSPECTIVE that are not traded on an active market, the fair value is Leased assets are depreciated over the term of the lease determined using appropriate valuation techniques. These agreement or the useful life of the assets, the smaller, unless techniques may include using recent arm’s-length market there is reasonably certain that the Company will acquire transactions; reference to the current fair value of another ownership of the leased assets at the end of the lease financial instrument that is substantially the same; discounted agreement cash flow analysis or other valuation models. The estimated average useful lives for the current periods are h) Inventories and cost of sales as follows: Inventories are stated at the lower of historical cost or net realizable value. Cost of sales include expenses related to the Useful life termination of customers’ cellular and long-distance calls in other carriers’ networks, as well as expenses related to billing, Building 25 years payment processing, operator services and our leasing of Computer equipment 3 years private circuit links. Transportation equipment 4 years Net realizable value is the sales price estimated in the Furniture and fixtures 10 years ordinary course of operations, less applicable sales Network equipment 6 to 28 years expenses. i) Investments in associates and other equity Useful lives and salvage values are reviewed at each year investments end and adjusted, if necessary. Investments in associates are those in which significant Subsequent costs influence is exercised on their administrative, financial and operating policies. The cost of replacing a component of an item of property, systems and equipment is recognized in the carrying amount Such investments are initially valued at acquisition cost, and of the item if it is probable that the future economic benefits subsequently, using the equity method, the result thereof is embodied within the component will inflow to the Company, recognized on profit and loss. and its cost can be measured reliably. Maintenance and minor repairs, including the cost of replacing minor items Other equity investments in which the Company does not not constituting substantial improvements are expensed as exercise significant influence the investees’ capital stock are incurred and charged through consolidated profit or loss recorded at cost. statement into selling and administrative expenses. j) Property, systems and equipment Borrowing costs Property, systems and equipment, including capital leases, Borrowing costs directly related to the acquisition, and their significant components are initially recorded at construction of production of qualifying assets, which acquisition cost and are presented net of the accumulated constitute assets that require a substantial period until they depreciation and amortization and associated impairment are ready for use, are added to the cost of such assets losses. during the construction stage and until commencing their operations and/or exploitation. Yields obtained from the Depreciation temporary investment of funds from specific loans to be used in qualifying assets are deducted from costs for loans subject or other amount that replaces cost, less its salvage value. to capitalization. All other borrowing costs are recognized in profits and losses during the period in which they were The salvage value of an asset is the estimated amount that incurred. an entity would currently obtain from disposal of an item, after deducting the estimated costs of disposal, if the asset were k) Intangibles assets already in the expected condition at the end of its useful life. The Company’s practice is to use its assets until they are The amounts expensed for intangible assets are capitalized no longer useful since in the industry in which the Company when the future economic benefits derived from such operates, it is not common to perform equipment sales to investments, can be reliably measured. According to their competitors. nature, intangible assets are classified with determinable and indefinite lives. Intangible assets with determinable lives are Depreciation is recognized in profit or loss using the straightamortized using the straight-line method during the period line method according to estimated useful life of each type in which the economic benefits are expected to be obtained. of asset, since it shows in a better way the expected usage Intangible assets with an indefinite life are not amortized, pattern of the future economic benefits included in the assets. as it is not feasible to determine the period in which such 68 / AXTEL 2014 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT FINANCIAL PERSPECTIVE benefits will be materialized; however, they are subject to Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net amount annual impairment tests. At December 31, 2014 and 2013, is shown in the consolidated statement of financial position respectively, the Company had no intangible assets with if, and only if, (i) there is currently a legally enforceable right an indefinite life registered in accounting. The price paid to offset the recognized amounts; and (ii) the intention is to in a business combination assigned to intangible assets is settle them on a net basis or to realize the asset and settle determined according to their fair value using the purchase the liability simultaneously. method of accounting. Research and development expenses for new products are recognized in results as incurred. Subsequent recognition of financial liabilities depends on their classification, as follows: Telephone concession rights are included in intangible assets and amortized over a period of 20 to 30 years (the initial term Financial liabilities at fair value with changes to profit or of the concession rights). loss Intangible assets also include infrastructure costs paid to Financial liabilities measured at fair value through profit or Telmex / Telnor. loss include financial liabilities for trading purposes, and financial liabilities measured upon initial recognition at fair l) Impairment of non-financial assets value through profit or loss. The Company reviews carrying amounts of its tangible and This category includes derivative financial instruments traded intangible assets in order to determine whether there are by the Company and that have not been designated as indicators of impairment. If there is an indicator, the asset hedging instruments in hedging relationships. recoverable amount is calculated in order to determine, if applicable, the impairment loss. The Company undertakes Separate embedded derivatives are also classified for trading impairment tests considering asset groups that constitute a purposes, except they are designated as effective hedging cash-generating unit (CGU). instruments. The recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less its Profits or losses on liabilities held for trading purposes are disposal cost and value in use. In assessing value in use, recognized in the consolidated statement of comprehensive estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present income. value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects market conditions and specific risks to each asset or the CGU. The Company has not designated any financial liability upon initial recognition at fair value through profit or loss. The If the recoverable amount of a CGU is estimated to be derivative financial instruments that cannot be designated as less than its carrying amount, the unit’s carrying amount is hedges are recognized at fair value with changes in profit and reduced to its recoverable amount. Impairment losses are loss. recognized in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income. Financial debt and interest bearing loans When an impairment loss is subsequently reversed, the After their initial recognition, loans and borrowings that CGU’s carrying amount increases its estimated revised value, bear interest are subsequently measured at their amortized such that the increased carrying amount does not exceed cost using the effective interest rate method. Gains and the carrying amount that would have been determined if an losses are recognized in profit and loss at the time they are impairment loss for such CGU had not been recognized in derecognized, as well as through the effective interest rate prior years. amortization process. m) Financial liabilities The amortized cost is computed by taking into consideration any discount or premium on acquisition and the fees and Initial recognition and measurement costs that are integral part of the effective interest rate. Effective interest rate amortization is included as part interest Financial liabilities are classified as financial liabilities at expense in the consolidated statement of comprehensive fair value through profit or loss, loans and financial debt, or income. derivatives designated as hedging instruments in effective hedges, as the case may be. The Company determines the A financial liability is derecognized when the obligation is met, classification of its financial liabilities at the time of their initial cancelled or expires. recognition. All financial liabilities are initially recognized at their fair value and, for loans and financial debt, fair value n) Provisions includes directly attributable transaction costs. Provisions are recognized when the Company has a present Financial liabilities include accounts payable to suppliers obligation (legal or constructive) as a result of a past event, it and other accounts payable, debt and derivative financial is probable that Company settles an obligation, and a reliable instruments. estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation. AXTEL 2014 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT / 69 FINANCIAL PERSPECTIVE The amount recognized as a provision is the best estimates to q) Income taxes settle the present obligation at the end of the period, bearing into account the risks and uncertainties inherent thereto. The income tax includes current and deferred tax. The current When a provision is assessed using estimated cash flows to and deferred tax are recognized in profit or loss, except that settle the present obligation, its book value represents the it relates to a business combination, or items recognized present value of such cash flows (when the effect in the time directly in equity or in other comprehensive income or loss. value of money is significant). The current tax comprises the expected tax payable or o) Employee benefits receivable. The income tax for the year is determined according to legal and taxation requirements for companies Short-term employee benefits in Mexico, using tax rates enacted at the reporting date, and any adjustment to tax payable regarding of previous years for Employee remuneration liabilities are recognized in the each of the legal entities of the Company. consolidated statement of comprehensive income on services rendered according to the salaries and wages that the entity Deferred tax is registered under the asset and liability expects to pay at the date of the consolidated statement of method, which compares book and tax values of assets financial position, including related contributions payable and liabilities of the Company, and deferred taxes (assets by the Company. Absences paid for vacations and vacation or liabilities) derived from the differences between those premiums are recognized in the consolidated statement of values are recognized. Taxes are not recognized for the comprehensive income in so far as the employees render the following temporary differences: the initial recognition of services that allow them to enjoy such vacations. assets and liabilities in a transaction other than a business combination and does not affect the accounting or tax result, Seniority premiums granted to employees and differences relating to investments in subsidiaries and joint ventures to the extent that is probably not reverse In accordance with Mexican labor law, the Company provides in the foreseeable future. Additionally, no deferred taxes seniority premium benefits to its employees under certain are recognized for taxable temporary differences arising circumstances. These benefits consist of a one-time payment from the initial recognition of goodwill. Deferred taxes are equivalent to 12 days wages for each year of service (at calculated using rates that are expected to apply to temporary the employee’s most recent salary, but not to exceed twice differences when they are reverted, based on enacted laws the legal minimum wage), payable to all employees with 15 at the reporting date. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are or more years of service, as well as to certain employees offset if there is a legally enforceable right to offset tax assets terminated involuntarily prior to the vesting of their seniority and liabilities, and correspond to income taxes imposed by premium benefit. the same tax authority and for the same tax entity, or on different tax entities, but they intend to settle tax assets and Costs associated with these benefits are provided for based liabilities on a net basis, or their tax assets and liabilities are on actuarial computations using the projected unit credit realized simultaneously. method. A deferred tax asset for tax loss carryforwards, tax credits Termination benefits and deductible temporary differences are recognized to the extent that it becomes probable that taxable future profits will The Company provides statutorily mandated termination be available to be applied against. Deferred tax assets are benefits to its employees terminated under certain reviewed at the reporting date and are reduced to the extent circumstances. Such benefits consist of a one-time payment that realization of the related tax benefit is no longer probable. of three months wages plus 20 days wages for each year of service payable upon involuntary termination without just r) Revenue recognition cause. The Company’s revenues are recognized when earned, as Termination benefits are recognized when the Company follows: decides to dismiss an employee or when such employee accepts an offer of termination benefits. • Telephony Services – Customers are charged a flat monthly fee for basic service, a per-call fee for local calls, p) Statutory employee profit sharing a per-minute usage fee for calls completed on a cellular line and domestic and international long distance calls, According to Mexican labor law, the Company must distribute and a monthly fee for value-added services, according to the equivalent of 10% of its annual taxable income as the individual offer of each client. employee statutory profit sharing in those legal entities with • Activation – At the moment of installing the service when employees. This amount is recognized in the consolidated the customer has a contract with indefinite life; otherwise statement of comprehensive income within the selling and is recognized over the average contract life. administrative expenses. • Equipment – At the moment of selling the equipment and when the customer acquires the property of the equipment and assumed all risks. 70 / AXTEL 2014 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT FINANCIAL PERSPECTIVE • Integrated services – At the moment when the client credit losses are recognized, instead, an entity always receives the service. accounts for expected credit losses, and changes in • Income from interconnection – Based on the traffic of those expected losses through profit or loss. In respect to minutes and generated by approved rates by Federal hedging activities, the requirements of IFRS 9 align hedge Telecommunications Institute (Instituto Federal de accounting more closely with an entity’s risk management Telecomunicaciones or “IFETEL”) or private agreements. through a principles-based approach. Nonetheless, the IASB provided entities with an accounting policy choice s) Earnings per share between applying the hedge accounting requirements of IFRS 9 or continuing to apply the existing hedge Net earnings per share result from dividing the net earnings accounting requirements in IAS 39 until the IASB for the year by the weighted average of outstanding shares completes its project on the accounting for macro hedging. during the fiscal year. To determine the weighted average IFRS 9 is effective for annual periods beginning on or of the outstanding shares, the shares repurchased by the after January 1, 2018, with early adoption permitted. If Company are excluded. an entity elects to apply IFRS 9 early, it must apply all of the requirements in this standard at the same time. t) Segments The Company is currently evaluating the impact that IFRS 9 will have on the classification and measurement Management evaluates the Company’s operations as two of its financial assets and financial liabilities, impairment revenue streams (mass market and business market), of financial assets and hedging activities. Currently, the however it is not possible to attribute direct or indirect costs to Company is in the process of evaluating this IFRS. the individual streams other than selling expenses and as a result has determined that it has only one operating segment. • In May 2014, the IASB issued IFRS 15, Revenue from contracts with customers (“IFRS 15”). The core principle of IFRS 15 is that an entity recognizes revenue to depict (6) Recently Issued Accounting Standards the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the There are several IFRS issued at the date of these entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods consolidated financial statements, that have not yet been or services, following a five step model: Step 1) Identify adopted, which are listed below. Except as otherwise the contracts(s) with a customer, which is an agreement indicated, the Company expects to adopt these IFRS when between two or more parties that creates enforceable they become effective. rights and obligations; Step 2): Identify the performance obligations in the contract, considering that if a contract • IFRS 9, Financial instruments: classification and includes promises to transfer distinct goods or services measurement (“IFRS 9”). Phase 1: during 2009 and 2010, to a customer, the promises are performance obligations the IASB issued the chapters of IFRS 9 relating to the and are accounted for separately; Step 3) Determine the classification and measurement of financial assets and transaction price, which is the amount of consideration liabilities, and incorporated limited amendments in July in a contract to which an entity expects to be entitled in 2014 for the classification and measurement of financial exchange for transferring promised goods or services to a assets. Phase 2: in July 2014, the IASB added to IFRS 9 customer; the impairment requirements related to the accounting for • Step 4): Allocate the transaction price to the performance expected credit losses on an entity’s financial assets and obligations in the contract, on the basis of the relative commitments to extend credits. Phase 3: in November stand-alone selling prices of each distinct good or service 2013, the IASB added to IFRS 9 the requirements related promised in the contract; and Step 5) Recognize revenue to hedge accounting. As intended by the IASB, IFRS 9 when (or as) the entity satisfies a performance obligation, will replace IAS 39 in its entirety. IFRS 9 requires an entity by transferring a promised good or service to a customer to recognize a financial asset or a financial liability in its (which is when the customer obtains control of that good statement of financial position when, and only when, the or service). A performance obligation may be satisfied at entity becomes party to the contractual provisions of the a point in time (typically for promises to transfer goods instrument. At initial recognition, an entity shall measure a to a customer) or over time (typically for promises to financial asset or financial liability at its fair value plus or transfer services to a customer). IFRS 15 also includes minus, in the case of a financial asset or financial liability disclosure requirements that would provide users of not at fair value through profit or loss, transaction costs financial statements with comprehensive information about that are directly attributable to the acquisition or issue the nature, amount, timing and uncertainty of revenue of the financial asset or financial liability, and includes a and cash flows arising from the entity’s contracts with category of financial assets at fair value through other customers. IFRS 15 will supersede all existing guidance comprehensive income for simple debt instruments. In on revenue recognition. IFRS 15 is effective for annual respect to impairment requirements, IFRS 9 eliminates the periods beginning on or after January 1, 2017, with threshold set forth in IAS 39 for the recognition of credit early adoption permitted considering certain additional losses. disclosure requirements. The Company is currently evaluating the impact that IFRS 15 will have on the Under the impairment approach in IFRS 9 it is no longer recognition of revenue from its contracts with customers. necessary for a credit event to have occurred before AXTEL 2014 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT / 71 FINANCIAL PERSPECTIVE New IFRS adopted on reporting period c) Allowance for doubtful accounts – The Company uses estimates to determine the allowance for doubtful Beginning in 2014, the Company adopted the following IFRS accounts. The factors that the Company considers to and several rules that are effective in future periods, but estimate doubtful accounts are mainly the customer’s chose to adopt them in advance: financial situation risk, unsecured accounts, and • Amendments to IFRS 10 and IFRS 28, Consolidated considerable delays in collection according to the credit Financial Statements and Investment in associates. limits established. • Amendments to IFRS 32, Offsetting of financial assets and financial liabilities. d) Contingencies – The Company is subject to contingent • Amendments to IFRS 36, Impairment of Assets. transactions or events on which it uses professional • Amendments to IFRS 19, Employee Benefits. judgment in the development of estimates of occurrence • Amendments to IFRS 16, Property, Plant and Equipment , probability. The factors considered in these estimates are and to IFRS 38 Intangible Assets. the current legal situation as of the date of the estimate, and the external legal advisors’ opinion. The adoption of the new standards, improvements and modifications did not represent a significant impact in the e) Deferred tax assets – Deferred tax assets are recognized financial statements of the Company. for the tax loss carry forwards to the extent management believes it is recoverable through the generation of future taxable income to which it can be applied. (7) Critical accounting judgments and key uncertainty sources in estimates f) Financial instruments recognized at fair value – In cases where fair value of financial assets and liabilities recorded In applying accounting policies, the Company’s management in the consolidated financial statement do not arise from use judgments, estimates and assumptions on certain active markets, their fair values are determined using amounts of assets and liabilities in the consolidated financial assessment techniques, including the discounted cash statements. Actual results may differ from such estimates. flows model. Where possible, the data for these models are supplied from observable markets, otherwise a Underlying estimates and assumptions are reviewed degree of discretionary judgment is required to determine regularly. Accounting estimates changes are prospectively fair values. These judgments include data such as liquidity recognized. risk, credit risk and volatility. Changes in the assumptions related to these factors may affect the amounts of fair Information about judgments made in applying accounting values advised for financial instruments. policies that have the most significant effects on the amounts in the consolidated financial statements is included in the g) Leases – Lases are classified as finance leases whenever following notes: the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the lessee. All other leases a) Useful lives of property, systems, and equipment – The are classified as operating leases. Company reviews the estimated useful life of property, systems and equipment at the end of each annual period. The degree of uncertainty related to the estimated useful lives is related to the changes in market and the use of assets for production volumes and technological development. b) Impairment of non-financial assets – When testing assets for impairment, the Company requires estimating the value in use assigned to property, systems and equipment, and cash generating units. The calculation of value in use requires the Company to determine future cash flows generated by cash generating units and an appropriate discount rate to calculate the present value thereof. The Company uses cash inflow projections using estimated market conditions, determination of future prices of products and volumes of production and sale. Similarly, for discount rate and perpetuity growth purposes, the Company uses market risk premium indicators and long-term growth expectations of markets where the Company operates. 72 / AXTEL 2014 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT FINANCIAL PERSPECTIVE (8) Financial instruments Categories of financial instruments 2014 2013 FINANCIAL ASSETS Cash and cash equivalents Ps 2,697,835 1,292,263 Accounts receivable 2,426,167 2,981,732 Financial instruments 121,999 142,200 Advance to suppliers 112,763 65,578 Other current assets 225,331 130,492 FINANCIAL LIABILITIES Derivative financial instruments Ps 46,952 116,658 Accrued interest 458,822 278,807 Short-term debt 130,000 Long-term debt 10,866,001 7,864,319 Accounts payable and accrued liabilities 2,347,302 2,741,308 a) Financial risk management objectives For interest rate risk, management has a risk management committee which discusses, among other things, whether The Company and its subsidiaries are exposed, through their each of the loans contracted either for working capital or to normal business operations and transactions, primarily to finance investment projects should be (according to market market risk (including interest rate risk, price risk and currency conditions and the functional currency of the Company) rate risk), credit risk and liquidity risk. contracted with fixed or variable rate. b) Market and interest rate risk The Company undertakes transactions denominated in foreign currencies; consequently, exposures to exchange rate Market risk is the risk that changes in market prices, such fluctuations arise. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated as foreign exchange rates, interest rates and equity prices, in dollars as of December 31, 2014 and 2013, are as follows: sill affect the Company’s income or the value of its holdings of financial instruments. The objective of market risk management is to manage and control market risk exposures within acceptable parameters, while optimizing the return. (THOUSANDS OF US DOLLARS) 2014 2013 Current assets U.S. $ 130,803 68,719 Current liabilities (102,231) (106,615) Non-current liabilities (726,992) (574,480) Foreign currency liabilities, net U.S. $ (698,420) (612,376) AXTEL 2014 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT / 73 FINANCIAL PERSPECTIVE The U.S. dollar exchange rates as of December 31, 2014 If the peso weakens 10% against the U.S. dollar, profit for the and 2013 were Ps. 14.71 and Ps. 13.07, respectively. As of year ended December 31, 2014 and equity would decrease February 27, 2015, the exchange rate was Ps. 14.92. by Ps. 1,027,935. The Company’s exposures to interest rates on financial d) Embedded derivatives assets and financial liabilities are detailed in the liquidity risk management section of this note. As mentioned in note 2, on January 31, 2013, the Company completed the exchange of U.S.$ 142 and U.S.$ 335 million The Company enters into a variety of derivative financial of unsecured notes due in 2017 and 2019, respectively, for instruments to manage its exposure to foreign currency risk U.S.$ 249 and U.S.$ 22 million dollars secured bond and and interest rate risk, including: a convertible bond, respectively, both with initial interest rate initial of 7% which will be increased to 8% in the first US$ 100 Million Syndicated loan Cross Currency Swaps anniversary date and to 9% in the second anniversary date, (CCS) and due in 2020, plus a cash payment of U.S.$ 83 million to participating holders. During November 2011, the Company closed a syndicated loan of up to the equivalent of US $ 100 million. This loan Holders of the convertible notes may elect to convert their is divided in two tranches, one in pesos amounting to Ps. Convertible Dollar-Indexed Notes Into ADSs or CPOs at any 512,373,031 and the other in U.S. dollar amounting to U.S. time after 120th calendar day following the issue date and $62,117,156. As of December 31, 2012 U.S. $53.3 million prior to the close of business on the fourth business day (equivalent to Ps. 693 million) and Ps. 365 million have been immediately preceding the maturity date for the convertible utilized, of which approximately Ps. 246 million remains notes, or at the election of the Company such conversion unutilized. The Company decided to hedge an increase in may be settled in cash. The number of ADSs to be delivered interest rates and exchange rate risks (devaluation of the in settlement conversion will be determined by the Company peso versus the U.S. dollar) associated with the entire portion at the conversion rate, which shall initially be of 5.9277 of principal and interest of the syndicated loan by entering into ADSs per Ps.100 principal amount of convertible DollarCross Currency Swaps (CCS) with Credit Suisse and Banorte indexed Notes, representing an initial conversion price of – IXE. The CCSs has been designated as a cash flow hedge approximately Ps. 16.87 per ADS. The number of CPOs to for accounting purposes. be delivered in settlement of conversion will be determined by the conversion rate, which shall initially be of 41.4938 ADSs As mentioned in note 2, at January 31, 2013 the Company per Ps. 100 principal amount of convertible Dollar-indexed paid in full the remaining balance of the syndicated loan, Notes, representing an initial conversion of approximately Ps. interest and related derivative transactions by 77,982 related 2.41 per CPO. to that credit. The following summarize the accounting for the convertible At December 31, 2014 and 2013, respectively, the Company notes and the embedded derivative arising from the had no current open positions. conversion option (thousands of US $): c) Market sensitivity analysis Exchange rate sensitivity analysis The Company is exposed to currency fluctuations between the Mexican peso and the U.S. dollar. The following table details the Company’s sensitivity analysis to a 10% increase and decrease in the peso against the U.S. dollar. The 10% increase or decrease is the sensitivity scenario that represents management’s assessment of the reasonably possible change in foreign exchange rates. The sensitivity analysis includes only outstanding foreign currency denominated monetary items and adjusts their translation at the end of the period for a 10% change in the exchange rates. A positive number below indicates an increase in profit or equity where the peso strengthens 10% against the U.S. dollar. If the peso strengthens 10% against the U.S. dollar, the profit for the year ended December 31, 2014 and equity would increase by Ps. 934,486. 74 / AXTEL 2014 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT FINANCIAL PERSPECTIVE (THOUSANDS OF U.S. DOLLARS) Convertible Notes – liability December 31, 2014 December 31, 2013 Face value 22,189 22,189 Options converted (note 16a) (8,016) (154) 14,173 22,035 Fair value of conversion option recognized as a derivative financial instrument (9,738) (9,738) Accrued interest 5,015 1,275 Carrying amount of convertible notes 9,450 13,572 (THOUSANDS OF U.S. DOLLARS) Convertible Notes – Derivative financial instrument December 31, 2014 December 31, 2013 Fair value of conversion option at initial balance 8,921 9,738 Gain in change of fair value for the period (5,731) (817) Fair value of conversion option at year end 3,190 8,921 For the year ended December 31, 2014 the change in on the same conditions, holding 30,384,700 CPOs as of fair value of derivative financial instruments resulted in an January 1, 2011. During the months of October, November unrealized gain of $ 61,473, recognized in the comprehensive and December of 2014, the Company acquired additional financing within the change in the fair value and settlements Zero Strike Calls for 5,639,336 CPOs of Axtel, with the same of financial instruments, net. conditions. The underlying of these instruments is the market value of the Axtel’s CPOs. The premium paid was equivalent e) Other price risks (equity price risk) to the market value of the notional plus transaction costs. The strike price established was 0.000001 pesos per option. This During July, August and September 2009, the Company instrument is redeemable only in cash and can be redeemed acquired call options denominated “Zero Strike Calls” that by the Company at any time (considered to be American have a notional of 26,096,700 CPOs of Axtel’s shares. During options), for a six month period and are extendable. The the months of June and July of 2010, the Company acquired terms and fair value of the Zero Strike Calls is included in the additional Zero Strike Calls for 4,288,000 CPOs of Axtel, following table: FAIR VALUE ASSET (LIABILITY) Counterparty Notional amount Terms 2014 2013 Bank of America 30,384,700 Receives in cash the market value of Ps 102,700 142,200 Merrill Lynch CPO’s the notional amount Corporativo GBM, S.A.B. Receives in cash the market value of 5,639,336 Ps 19,299 de C.V. the notional amount For the years ended December 31, 2014 and 2013 the respectively, recognized in the net finance cost within change in the fair value of the Zero Strike Calls resulted in the change in the fair value and settlements of financial an unrealized (loss) gain of (Ps. 40,201) and Ps. 53,781, instruments, net. AXTEL 2014 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT / 75 FINANCIAL PERSPECTIVE f) Equity price risk sensitivity analysis • Company C represented 5% of the Company’s accounts receivable as of December 31, 2014 and 2013. The sensitivity analyses below have been determined based Additionally, revenues associated with Company C for the on the exposure to the equity price risk associated with the year ended December 31, 2014 and 2013 were 1% and market value of the Axtel’s CPOs at the end of the reporting 0%, respectively. period. The 10% increase or decrease is the sensitivity scenario that represents management’s assessment of the • The Credit risk in investments on demand and in derivative reasonably possible change in the Axtel’s share price. financial instruments is minimal, since the counterparties are banks with high credit ratings assigned by international If the Company’s share price had been 10% higher: qualified agencies. • Profit and equity for the year ended December 31, 2014 • The Company does not hold any collateral or other credit would increase by Ps. 12,176. enhancements to cover its credit risks associated with its financial assets. If the Company’s share price had been 10% lower: h) Liquidity risk management • Profit and equity for the year ended December 31, 2014 would decrease by Ps. 11,069. Liquidity risk is the risk that the Company will encounter difficulty in meeting the obligations associated with its g) Credit risk management financial liabilities that are settled by delivering cash or another financial asset. The Company’s approach to • Credit risk refers to the risk that a counterparty will managing liquidity is to ensure as far as possible, that it will default on its contractual obligations resulting in financial always have sufficient liquidity to meet its liabilities when due, loss to the Company. The Company has adopted a under both normal and stressed conditions, without incurring policy of only dealing with creditworthy counterparties unacceptable losses or risk damage to the Company’s and obtaining sufficient collateral, where appropriate, reputation. as a means of mitigating the risk of financial loss from defaults. The Company’s exposure and the credit ratings Ultimate responsibility for liquidity risk management rests of its counterparties are continuously monitored. Credit with the Company’s board of directors, which has established exposure is controlled by counterparty limits that are an appropriate liquidity risk management framework for the reviewed and approved by the Company, annually. management of the Company’s short-, mediumand longterm funding and liquidity management requirements. The • Trade receivables consist of a large number of customers, Company manages liquidity risk by maintaining adequate spread across diverse industries and geographical areas reserves, banking facilities and reserve borrowing facilities, by throughout Mexico. Ongoing credit evaluation is performed continuously monitoring actual and forecasted cash flows. on the financial condition of accounts receivable. The following tables detail the Company’s remaining • Apart from companies A, B and C, the largest customers contractual maturity for its non-derivative financial liabilities of the Company, the Company does not have significant (debt) with agreed repayment periods. The tables have been credit risk exposure to any single counterparty or any drawn up based on the undiscounted cash flows of financial group of counterparties having similar characteristics. liabilities based on the earliest date on which the Company The Company defines counterparties as having similar can be required to pay. To the extent that interest flows are characteristics if they are related entities. Concentration floating rate, the undiscounted amount is derived from interest of credit risk related to Company A, B and C should rates at the end of the reporting period. The contractual not exceed 20% of gross monetary assets at any time maturity is based on the earliest date on which the Company during the year. Concentration of credit risk to any other may be required to pay. counterparty should not exceed 5% of gross monetary assets at any time during the year. • Company A represented 5%, and 9% of the Company’s accounts receivable as of December 31, 2014 and 2013, respectively. Additionally, revenues associated with Company A for the year ended December 31, 2014 and 2013 were 0% and 3%, respectively. • Company B represented 5%, and 10% of the Company’s accounts receivable as of December 31, 2014 and 2013, respectively. Additionally, revenues associated with Company B for the year ended December 31, 2014 and 2013 were 1% and 0%, respectively. 76 / AXTEL 2014 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT FINANCIAL PERSPECTIVE Less than 1 2 years 2 3 years 3 4 years 4 5 years 5 + years 1 year December 31, 2014 Variable interest rate instruments Ps 158,499 21,934 13,979 7,702 Fixed interest rate instruments 1,130,525 1,049,144 1,777,453 898,450 2,372,833 8,594,932 Ps 1,289,024 1,071,078 1,791,432 906,152 2,372,833 8,594,932 December 31, 2013 Variable interest rate instruments Ps 29,050 13,571 11,755 4,940 Fixed interest rate instruments 713,615 752,371 761,727 1,341,575 611,927 7,634,415 Capacity lease 179,171 Ps 921,836 765,942 773,482 1,346,515 611,927 7,634,415 The amounts included above for variable interest rate i) Fair value of financial instruments instruments for both non-derivative financial assets and liabilities is subject to change if changes in variable interest Except as detailed in the following table, the Company’s rates differ to those estimates of interest rates determined at management considers that the carrying amounts of financial the end of the reporting period. assets and financial liabilities recognized in the consolidated financial statements approximate their fair values: December 31, 2014 December 31, 2013 Financial liabilities Carrying amount Fair value Carrying amount Fair value FINANCIAL LIABILITIES HELD AT AMORTIZED COST: Senior Unsecured Notes with maturity in 2017 741,758 741,684 659,029 598,069 Senior Unsecured Notes with maturity in 2019 1,497,262 1,497,112 1,330,272 1,063,819 Senior Secured Notes with maturity in 2020 8,016,203 7,775,717 5,160,680 4,889,744 Senior Secured Convertible Notes with maturity in 2020 139,097 139,097 177,481 177,481 Other long-term financing 602,582 664,440 407,965 400,139 Capacity lease 168,554 172,397 Accrued interest 458,822 458,822 278,807 278,807 AXTEL 2014 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT / 77 FINANCIAL PERSPECTIVE Valuation techniques and assumptions applied for the an orderly transaction between market participants at the purposes of measuring fair value valuation date, considering the credit risk the counterparty valuation. The fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities are determined as follows: The concept of Selling Price is based on the assumption that there is a market and participants in this for the specific • The fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities asset or liability. When there are no market and / or market with standard terms and conditions and traded on active participants, IFRS 13 establishes a fair value hierarchy liquid markets are determined with reference to quoted that prioritizes the inputs to valuation techniques used to market prices. measure fair value. The hierarchy gives the highest priority to unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical • The fair values of derivative instruments are calculated assets or liabilities (Level 1 measurements) and the lowest using quoted prices. Where such prices are not available, priority pricing calculations that deal with data entry but a discounted cash flow analysis is performed using the significant unobservable (Level 3 measurement). applicable yield curve for the duration of the instruments or option pricing models as best applicable. Foreign The three levels of hierarchy are as follows: currency forward contracts are measured using quoted forward exchange rates and yield curves derived from • The level 1 data are quoted prices in active markets quoted interest rates matching maturities of the contracts. (unadjusted) for identical assets or liabilities that the Interest rate swaps are measured at the present value of Company has the ability to negotiate at the date of future cash flows estimated and discounted based on the measurement. A quoted price in an active market provides applicable yield curves derived from quoted interest rates the most reliable evidence of fair value and is used without and include other adjustments to arrive at fair value as adjustment for determining fair value whenever it is applicable (i.e. for counterparty credit risk). available. • The fair values of other financial assets and financial • Level 2 data are data other than quoted prices in active liabilities (excluding those described above) are markets that are directly or indirectly observable for the determined in accordance with generally accepted pricing asset or liability that are mainly used to determine the models based on discounted cash flow analysis. fair value of shares, investments and loans that are not actively traded. Level 2 data include stock prices, interest j) Fair value measurements recognized in the rates and certain yield curves, implied volatility, credit consolidated statement of financial position spreads, and other data, including data extrapolated from other observable data. In the absence of level 1 data, the The Company applies the guidance in IFRS 13, Fair Value Company determines fair value by interacting applicable Measurement (“IFRS 13”) to determine the fair value Level 2 data, the number of instruments and / or other of financial assets and financial liabilities recognized or relevant terms of the contracts, as applicable. disclosed at fair value. IFRS 13 requires fair values in addition to those already required or permitted by other IFRS, and • Level 3 data are those that are not observable for the is not intended to establish valuation standards or affect asset or liability. The Company uses this data to determine valuation practices outside financial reporting. Under IFRS fair value when there is no Level 1 or Level 2 data, in 13, the fair value represents a “Selling Price”, which would valuation models such as discounted cash flows. be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in December 31, 2014 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Financial assets Zero strike calls 121,999 121,999 Financial liabilities Derivative financial liabilities 46,952 46,952 December 31, 2013 Financial assets Zero strike calls 142,200 142,200 Financial liabilities Derivative financial liabilities 116,658 116,658 78 / AXTEL 2014 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT FINANCIAL PERSPECTIVE (9) Accounts receivable, net Accounts receivable, net consist of the following: 2014 2013 Accounts receivable Ps 5,008,936 5,388,862 Less allowance for doubtful accounts 2,582,769 2,407,130 Accounts receivable, net Ps 2,426,167 2,981,732 Given their short-term nature the carrying value of trade accounts receivable approximates its fair value as of December 31, 2014 and 2013. Movement in the allowance for doubtful accounts. 2014 2013 Opening balance Ps 2,407,130 2,207,537 Allowance for the year 173,941 199,524 Effect of exchange rate 1,698 69 Balances at period end Ps 2,582,769 2,407,130 In determining the recoverability of trade receivables, the Company considers any change in the credit quality of the trade receivable from the date credit was initially granted up to the end of the reporting period. The concentration of credit risk is limited due to the customer base being large and unrelated. Aging of impaired trade receivables: 2014 2013 60 90 days Ps 17,786 22,130 90 120 days 28,591 26,054 120 + days 2,536,392 2,358,946 Total Ps 2,582,769 2,407,130 Aging of past due but not impaired 2014 2013 Corriente Ps 949,172 1,260,468 1 30 days 139,937 139,769 30 60 days 183,037 201,352 60 90 days 37,523 22,322 90 + days 417,467 518,901 Total Ps 1,727,136 2,142,812 AXTEL 2014 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT / 79 FINANCIAL PERSPECTIVE (10) Property, systems and equipment Property, systems and equipment are as follows: Computer Furniture Land and and Transportation Network Leasehold Construction and Total Building electronic equipment equipment improvements in progress fixtures equipment Balance as of Ps 430,990 3,275,901 395,411 221,099 29,570,177 425,147 1,334,081 35,652,806 January 1, 2012 Additions 579 24,301 143 682,033 1,659,608 2,366,664 Transfer of completed 105,617 988 19,903 2,004,020 4,465 (2,134,993) projects in progress Transfer to assets held 240,451 240,451 for sale Disposals (32,987) (76) (78,787) (111,850) Balance as of December Ps 430,990 3,382,097 387,713 241,069 32,417,894 429,612 858,696 38,148,071 31, 2013 Additions Ps 152,125 4,465 6 458,514 2,548,101 3,163,211 Transfer of completed 161,252 4,723 16,632 2,212,733 583 (2,395,923) projects in progress Disposals (2,131) (20,900) (55) (18,231) (41,317) Balance as of December Ps 430,990 3,693,343 376,001 257,652 35,070,910 430,195 1,010,874 41,269,965 31, 2014 Computer Furniture Depreciation and Land and and Transportation Network Leasehold Construction and Total impairment Building electronic equipment equipment improvements in progress fixtures equipment Balance as of January 1, Ps 121,798 1,230,542 289,157 163,517 19,552,170 297,628 21,654,812 2012 Depreciation of the year 14,286 128,810 64,089 14,752 2,914,961 30,356 3,167,254 Disposals (31,752) (14,385) (46,137) Assets held for sale 184,955 184,955 Balance as of December Ps 136,084 1,359,352 321,494 178,269 22,637,701 327,984 24,960,884 31, 2013 Depreciation of the year 14,284 126,316 45,036 17,577 3,152,790 24,963 3,380,966 Disposals (2,053) (20,115) (30) (11,230) (33,428) Balance as of December Ps 150,368 1,483,615 346,415 195,816 25,779,261 352,947 28,308,422 31, 2014 Property, systems and equipment, net at December 31, 2013 Ps 294,906 2,022,745 66,219 62,800 9,780,193 101,628 858,696 13,187,187 Property, systems and equipment, net at December 31, 2014 $ 280,622 2,209,728 29,586 61,836 9,291,649 77,248 1,010,874 12,961,543 Construction in progress mainly includes network equipment, and capitalization period is approximately six months. During the year ended December 31, 2014 and 2013 the Company capitalized Ps. 36,847 and Ps. 34,461, respectively of borrowing costs in relation to Ps. 709,293 and Ps. 492,996 in qualifying assets. Amounts were capitalized based on a capitalization rate of 9.85% and 9.28%, respectively. 80 / AXTEL 2014 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT FINANCIAL PERSPECTIVE For the year ended December 31, 2014 and 2013 interest expenses are comprised as follows: 2014 2013 Interest expense Ps (912,592) (916,915) Amount capitalized 36,847 34,461 Net amount in consolidated statements of comprehensive income Ps (875,745) (882,454) As of December 31, 2014, certain financial leases amounting C.V. (“MATC”), a subsidiary of American Tower Corporation, to approximately Ps. 23 million were guaranteed with the in the amount of U.S. $ 249 million. This transaction resulted equipment acquired with those leases. in a gain of Ps. 3,111,948 which is presented as operating income in the accompanying condensed consolidated The depreciation expense for the year ended December 31, statement of comprehensive income. Additionally, the 2014 and 2013 amounts to Ps. 3,380,966 and Ps. 3,167,254, Company agreed to lease certain spaces at these locations respectively. in terms ranging from 6 to 15 years, depending on the type of technology installed at each site, for a net yearly cost of On January 31, 2013, the Company completed the sale of approximately U.S.$ 20 million. 883 sites to MATC Digital Telecommunications, S. de R.L. de (11) Intangible assets Intangible assets with defined useful lives consist of the following: World Trade Telephone Telephone Telmex / Telnor Center Rights of concession concession Others Total infrastructure costs concession use rights AXTEL rights Avantel rights Balances as of December $ 571,520 110,193 58,982 21,045 30,030 87,330 879,100 31, 2012 Disposals (14,161) (14,161) Balances as of December $ 31, 2013 and 2014 571,520 110,193 58,982 21,045 30,030 73,169 864,939 World Trade Telephone Telephone Telmex / Telnor Center Rights of Amortización y deterioro concession concession Others Total infrastructure costs concession use rights AXTEL rights Avantel rights Balances as of December $ 396,931 60,106 34,498 11,010 17,337 70,596 590,478 31, 2012 Amortization 30,307 10,018 4,080 1,672 2,886 1,706 50,669 Balances as of December $ 427,238 70,124 38,578 12,682 20,223 72,302 641,147 31, 2013 Amortization 30,307 10,018 4,080 1,672 2,886 867 49,830 Balances as of December $ 457,545 80,142 42,658 14,354 23,109 73,169 690,977 31, 2014 Intangible assets, net at December 31, 2013 $ 144,282 40,069 20,404 8,363 9,807 867 223,792 Intangible assets, net at December 31, 2014 $ 113,975 30,051 16,324 6,691 6,921 173,962 AXTEL 2014 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT / 81 FINANCIAL PERSPECTIVE Concessions rights of the Company video, audio and video conferencing, except television networks, music or continuous service digital audio services, The main concessions of the Company are as follows: and credit or debit phone cards. • Concession to offer local and long distance telephony In November 2006, SCT granted the Company, as part of the services, for a period of thirty years. To maintain this concession of Axtel, a new permission to provide SMS (short concession the Company needs to comply with certain messaging system) to its customers. conditions. It can be renewed for another period of thirty years; In September 15, 2009, SCT granted the Company a concession to install, operate and exploit a public • On September 15, 1995 Avantel obtained a concession telecommunications network to provide satellite television and to offer local and long distance telephony services, for audio services. a period of thirty years. To maintain this concession the Company needs to comply with certain conditions. It can Intangible assets arising from the acquisition of Avantel be renewed for another period of thirty years; Derived from the acquisition of Avantel in 2006, the • Concessions of different frequencies of radio spectrum Company recorded certain intangible assets such as: trade for 20 years and renewable for additional periods of 20 name “Avantel”, customer relationships and telephone years, as long as Axtel complies with all of its obligations, concession rights, whose value were determined by using an and with all conditions imposed by the law and with any independent external expert appraiser at the acquisition date other condition that Department of Communications and accounted for in accordance to previous GAAP. The trade and Transportation (Secretaria de Comunicaciones y name and customer relationships are amortized over a threeTransporte) or (SCT) imposes. year period; meanwhile the concession is amortized over the remaining term of the concession on a straight-line basis. At Concessions allow the Company to provide basic local December 31, 2014 the values of the trade name “Avantel” telephone service, domestic long distance telephony, and of customer relationships were fully amortized. purchase or lease network capacity for the generation, transmission or reception of data, signals, writings, images, voice, sounds and other information of any kind, the purchase and leasing network capacity from other countries, including digital circuits income, value added services, operator services, paging and messaging services, data services, (12) Other assets Other assets consist of the following: 2014 2013 Prepaid expenses Ps 276,738 208,307 Guarantee deposits 48,307 45,634 Others 31,325 21,400 Other assets 356,370 275,341 Current portion of other assets 225,331 130,492 Other long-term assets Ps 131,039 144,849 82 / AXTEL 2014 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT FINANCIAL PERSPECTIVE (13) Long-term debt a) Long-term debt as of December 31, 2014 and 2013 consist of the following: 2014 2013 U.S. $ 275 in aggregate principal amount of 7 5/8 % Senior Unsecured Notes due in 2017. Interest is payable semiannually on February 1 and August 1 of each year. During January and 2013, the Company completed Ps 741,758 659,029 the exchange of U.S.$ 224.6 and U.S.$ 167.4 million of unsecured notes maturing in 2017 and 2019, respectively, for U.S.$ 358.6 and U.S.$ 22 million dollars on secured bond and a convertible bond. U.S.$ 490 in aggregate principal amount of 9% Senior Unsecured Notes due in 2019. Interest is payable semiannually on March and September of each year. In January 2013, the Company completed the exchange 1,497,262 1,330,272 of U.S.$ 224.6 and U.S.$167.4 million of unsecured notes maturing in 2017 and 2019, respectively, for U.S.$ 358.6 and U.S.$ 22 million dollars on secured bond and a convertible bond. Senior Secured Notes in a principal amount of U.S.$ 544.6 and U.S.$ 394.6 million dollars as of 2014 and 2013, respectively, with initial interest of 7% will be increased to 9% and maturing in 2020. Interest is payable 8,016,203 5,160,680 semi-annually in February and August of each year. Senior Secured Convertible Notes U.S. dollar-indexed principal amount of U.S.$ 22.2 million dollars with initial interest of 7% will be increased to 9% and maturing in 2020. Interest is payable semi-annually in February and 139,097 177,481 August of each year. Discount on note caused by Senior Secured Notes payable in the amount of U.S. $ 36 million at an initial (24,228) (28,994) interest rate of 7% will increase to 9% due 2020 Premium on Senior Unsecured Notes with an aggregate principal of U.S.$ 490 million with an interest rate of 10,817 7,444 9%, due in 2019. Capacity lease agreement with Teléfonos de Mexico, S.A.B. de C.V. of approximately Ps. 800,000 payable 168,554 monthly and expiring in 2011. Renewed in 2011 of approximately Ps. 484,000 payable monthly. Other long-term financing with several credit institutions with an average interest rates of 6% for those denominated in dollars and TIIE (Mexican average interbank rate) plus 1.5 and 3 percentage points for those 602,582 407,965 denominated in pesos with maturities between three to four years. Debt issuance and deferred financing costs (117,490) (18,112) Total long-term debt 10,866,001 7,864,319 Less current maturities 220,554 308,945 Long-term debt, excluding current maturities Ps 10,645,447 7,555,374 AXTEL 2014 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT / 83 FINANCIAL PERSPECTIVE Annual installments of long-term debt are as follows: which is presented in other income in the accompanying consolidated statements of comprehensive income. Additionally, the Company made the full payment of the Year Amount remaining balance of the syndicated loan, interest and related 2016 Ps 209,585 derivative transactions, amounting approximately U.S.$ 88 million. 2017 883,395 2018 20,231 b) Bank loans 2019 1,497,837 On March 28, 2014 the Company entered into a promissory 2020 and thereafter 8,034,399 note with Banco Nacional de Mexico, S.A. by which received a loan of Ps. 130,000, with an interest rate of TIIE plus 3.5 Ps 10,645,447 percentage points annually. This loan matures until June 2015. Note issuance and deferred financing costs directly On December 13, 2013 the Company entered into a credit attributable to the issuance of the Company’s borrowings are facility with Banco Mercantil del Norte, S.A. by which received amortized based on the effective interest rate over the term of a loan of Ps. 130,000 in August 2014, with an interest rate of the related borrowing. TIIE plus 3.50 percentage points annually. This loan was paid in full so in September 2014. For the year ended December 31, 2014 and 2013, the interest expense was Ps. 912,592 and Ps. 916,915 respectively. (see On October 8, 2013 the Company entered into a credit note 10). facility with Banco Monex by which received a loan of Ps. 200,000 in August 2014, with an interest rate of TIIE plus 3.50 On September 17, 2014, The Company completed the percentage points annually. This loan was paid in full so in reopening of its secured bonds issuance due in 2020 for U.S. September 2014. $ 150 million at a priced at 100.25% of the principal amount, on the same terms and interest rates of the secured notes Certain debt agreements establish affirmative and negative due in 2020 referred to in the following paragraphs. covenants, the most significant of which refer to limitations on dividend payments and the compliance with certain financial During December 31, 2013, the Company completed the ratios. As of December 31, 2014 and February 27, 2015, the exchange of U.S.$ 82.5 million and U.S.$ 32.8 million of Company was in compliance with all covenants contained in unsecured notes due in 2017 and 2019, respectively, for its debt agreements. U.S.$ 110 million of secured bonds due in 2020 with the same conditions and interest rates described in the January 2013 exchange mentioned in the following paragraphs, this transaction resulted in a gain of Ps. 30,658 which is presented in the accompanying consolidated statements of comprehensive income. In addition, on December 13 and 26, 2013, the Company closed an offering of additional 2020 Notes for U.S$ 26 million and U.S$ 10 million, additional bonds were issued at a price of 93.75% of their principal value. At January 31, 2013, the Company completed the exchange of U.S.$ 142 and U.S.$ 355 million of unsecured notes due in 2017 and 2019, respectively, for U.S.$ 249 and U.S.$ 22 million dollars secured bond and a convertible bond, respectively, both with initial interest rate of 7% which will be increase to 8% in the first anniversary date and to 9% in the second anniversary date, and due in 2020, plus a cash payment of U.S.$ 83 million to participating holders. Holders of the convertible notes may elect to convert their Convertible Dollar-Indexed Notes Into ADSs of CPOs at any time after 120th calendar day following the issue date and prior to the close of business on the fourth business day immediately preceding the maturity date for the convertible notes, or at the election of the Company such conversion may be settled in cash. This transaction resulted in a gain of Ps.1,538,325 84 / AXTEL 2014 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT FINANCIAL PERSPECTIVE (14) Transactions and balances with related parties The transactions with related parties during the years ended December 31, 2014 and 2013 are as follows: 2014 2013 Banamex Telecommunication service revenues Ps 540,652 584,759 Interest expense 6,980 21,202 Other related parties: Rent expense Ps 29,698 37,281 Installation service expense 30,225 46,177 Others 5,369 5,211 The balances with related parties as of December 31, 2014 and 2013, included in accounts payable are as follows: 2014 2013 ACCOUNTS PAYABLE SHORT-TERM: GEN Industrial, S.A. de C.V. (2) Ps 52 58 Neoris de México, S.A. de C.V. (2) Ps 505 557 58 The balances with related parties as of December 31, 2014 and 2013, included in deferred revenues are as follows: 2014 2013 DEFERRED REVENUES SHORT-TERM: Banco Nacional de México, S.A. (1) Ps 460,526 457,478 DEFERRED REVENUES LONG-TERM: Banco Nacional de México, S.A. (1) Ps 33,900 33,900 (1) Derived from transactions related to master services agreement signed between the Company and Banamex, the Company provides telecommunications services (including, local, long distance and other services) to Banamex and its affiliates located in Mexico. (2) Mainly administrative services. The benefits and aggregate compensation paid to executive officers and senior management of the Company during the year ended December 31, 2014 and 2013 were as follows: 2014 2013 Short-term employee benefits paid Ps 72,094 94,584 AXTEL 2014 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT / 85 FINANCIAL PERSPECTIVE (15) Income tax (IT) and Flat Rate Tax (IETU) On December 11, 2013, a decree was published in the Official caused tax was IETU, your payment is considered definitive Gazette whereby several tax provisions were amended, and not subject to recovery in future periods. Under the IT supplemented, and repealed. This decree became effective Law in force effective until December 31, 2013, the income as of January 1, 2014. Upon enactment of a new IT Law, the tax and flat tax rate was 30% and 17.5%, respectively. The IT IETU Law and the IT Law in effect as of December 31, 2013 Law effective from 1 January 2014 establishes an income tax were repealed. rate of 30% for 2014 and beyond. According to current tax legislation during 2013, companies The income tax benefit (expense) is as follows: were required to pay higher tax between IT and IETU. If the 2014 2013 Current income tax Ps (34,459) (50,817) Deferred income tax 572,596 (967,321) Income tax benefit (expense) Ps 538,137 (1,018,138) Given that the IETU Law was repealed, as of December According to the IT Law in effect as of December 31, 2014, 31, 2013, the Company wrote off its deferred IETU assets the IT rate for fiscal years 2014 and 2013 was 30%. The new generated by subsidiaries Avantel, S. de R.L., Avantel, S.A. IT law imposes an IT rate of 30% for 2014 and thereafter. Asociación en Participación, Servicios Axtel, S.A. de C.V. e Instalaciones y Contrataciones, S.A. de C.V. recording a Income tax (benefit) expense attributable to (loss) income charge to operations in 2013 in the amount of Ps. 190,720. from continuing operations before income taxes, differed from Furthermore, the Company determined its deferred income the amounts computed by applying the Mexican statutory taxes (IT) as of December 31, 2013, recognizing deferred rates of 30% IT to (loss) income before income taxes, as a income tax assets in the amount of Ps. 38,159, recording a result of the items shown below. credit to operations in fiscal year 2013. 2014 2013 Statutory income tax rate (30%) 30% Inflationary effects (2%) 3% Non-deductible effects from allowance for doubtful accounts 9% (2%) Non-deductible expenses 1% (2%) Changes in tax rates (1%) Changes in laws (7%) Recognition of initial deferred IT on subsidiaries 8% Recognition of the tax effect of tax losses previously not recognized 1% Effective tax rate (22%) 30% 86 / AXTEL 2014 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT FINANCIAL PERSPECTIVE The main differences that gave rise to the deferred income tax assets as of December 31, 2014 and 2013 are presented below: 2014 2013 DEFERRED TAX ASSETS: Net operating loss carry forwards Ps 1,257,927 824,229 Allowance for doubtful accounts 367,482 522,188 Accrued liabilities and others 362,947 547,230 Premium on bond issuance 3,245 2,233 Property, systems and equipment 312,239 Total deferred tax assets Ps 2,303,840 1,895,880 DEFERRED TAX LIABILITIES: Telephone concession rights Ps 40,466 52,698 Property, systems and equipment 69,526 Long-term debt 549,342 549,342 Fair value of derivative financial instruments 28,123 41,898 Intangible and other assets 10,707 80,479 Total deferred tax liabilities 628,638 793,943 Deferred tax assets, net Ps 1,675,202 1,101,937 The roll forward for the net deferred tax asset as of December 31, 2014 and 2013 are presented below: Effects on profit Effects on 2013 2014 and loss stockholders’ equity Net operating loss carry forwards Ps 824,229 433,698 1,257 Allowance for doubtful accounts 522,188 (154,706) 367,482 Accrued liabilities and others 547,230 (184,952) 669 362,947 Premium on bond issuance 2,233 1,012 3,245 Property, systems and equipment (69,526) 381,765 312,239 Telephone concession rights (52,698) 12,232 (40,466) Long-term debt (549,342) (549,342) Fair value of derivative financial instruments (41,898) 13,775 (28,123) Intangible and other assets (80,479) 69,772 (10,707) Ps 1,101,937 572,596 669 1,675,202 Effects on profit Effects on 2012 2013 and loss stockholders’ equity Net operating loss carry forwards Ps 599,839 224,390 824,229 Allowance for doubtful accounts 438,602 83,586 522,188 Fair value of derivative financial instruments 26,073 (13,613) (12,460) Accrued liabilities and other provisions 246,221 301,009 547,230 Premium on bond issuance 12,629 (10,396) 2,233 Deferred IETU 190,720 (190,720) Property, systems and equipment 661,615 (731,141) (69,526) Telephone concession rights (55,628) 2,930 (52,698) Long-term debt (549,342) (549,342) Fair value of derivative financial instruments (41,898) (41,898) Intangible and other assets (38,353) (42,126) (80,479) Ps 2,081,718 (967,321) (12,460) 1,101,937 AXTEL 2014 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT / 87 FINANCIAL PERSPECTIVE As of December 31, 2014, the tax loss carry forwards and the tax on assets expire as follows: Year Tax loss carry forwards Tax on assets 2015 Ps 3,944 2016 7,234 2017 28,374 2018 361,008 2020 161,541 2021 1,924,064 2022 534,969 2023 577,622 2024 1,691,853 Ps 5,251,057 39,552 At December 31, 2014, non-recognized deferred tax assets is Ps. 764,290, of which Ps. 317,390 relate to tax loss carry forwards, Ps. 407,348 relate to estimating doubtful accounts and Ps. 39,552 to tax on assets. (16) Stockholders’ equity The main characteristics of stockholders’ equity are described of those rights that may be conferred under applicable law below: to holders of shares that form part of the variable portion of a Sociedad Anónima Bursátil de Capital Variable). Each a) Capital stock structure of the Classes have two Series: Series “A” and “B”; both Series are indistinct and provide the same corporate and As of December 31, 2014, the common stock of the Company economic rights to its holders. All of the shares issued by is Ps. 6,728,342. The Company has 9,067,959,874 shares the Company have no par value. Of the total shares issued issued and outstanding. Company’s shares are divided in and outstanding, 97,750,656 are Class “I” Series A and two classes, Class “I” which represent the fixed minimum 8,970,209,218 are Class “I” Series B. At December 31, 2014 portion of the capital stock, and Class “II” which represent the the Company has not issued any Class “II” shares (neither variable portion of the capital stock. The shares that belong Series “A” nor Series “B”). As of this date, significantly all of to both Class “I” and Class “II” provide to its holders the the Series “B” Shares issued by the Company are deposited same economic and corporate rights (with the only difference in a trust (the “CPOs Trust”). Shares Amount 2014 2013 2014 2013 AUTORIZED AND ISSUED CAPITAL: Series A Ps 97,750,656 97,750,656 73,396 73,396 Series B 8,970,209,218 8,678,441,546 6,654,946 6,554,494 88 / AXTEL 2014 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT FINANCIAL PERSPECTIVE In connection with the issuance of the convertible bond into 10% equity share in Axtel; and (ii) for the subscription and shares held on January 31, 2013, and in accordance with the payment of the Series B Shares that represented the shares resolutions adopted by the Extraordinary General Meeting issued by Tel Holding and any shares issued by stockholders of Shareholders on January 25, 2013, the Company issued that elected to issue and pay for additional Series B Shares 972,814,143 Series B shares Class “I” that will be kept in the in exercise of their preferential right granted by the Mexican treasury of the Company, to be subsequently subscribed by General Corporation Law. the conversion of convertible bonds. During the last quarter of 2013 the conversion option was exercised for a total of On December 22, 2006 pursuant to the Subscription 5,724,950 Series B shares representing an increase of Ps Agreement, the Company received notice from Tel Holding 1,970 in the capital stock of the Company. confirming that it acquired 533,976,744 Series B Shares (represented by 76,282,392 CPOs) from the Mexican Stock During April 2013 a contribution of capital stock for Ps. 384, Exchange (Bolsa Mexicana de Valores, or ‘‘BMV’’) and representing 1,114,029 Series “A”, was received. confirming its intention to issue and pay for 246,453,963 new Series B Shares (represented by 35,207,709 CPOs). The new During July 2008 the Company began a program to Series B Shares were subscribed and paid for by Tel Holding repurchase own shares which was approved at an ordinary through the CPOs Trust on January 4, 2007. shareholder meeting held on April 23, 2008 for up to Ps. 440 million. As of December 31, 2008 the Company had b) Stockholders’ equity restrictions repurchased 26,096,700 CPO’s (182,676,900 shares). During July, August and September 2009, the CPOs purchased Stockholders’ contributions, restated for inflation as provided through the repurchase program was resold in the market. At in the tax law, totaling Ps. 8,989,419 may be refunded to the ordinary shareholder meeting held on April 25, 2014 it was stockholders tax-free. approved to allocate a maximum amount of Ps. 90 million to the share repurchase program. No dividends may be paid while the Company has a deficit. Additionally, certain of the Company’s debt agreements The acquisition of Avantel also included a Series B Shares mentioned in note 13 establish limitations on dividend Subscription Agreement (‘‘Subscription Agreement’’) with payments. Tel Holding, an indirect subsidiary of Citigroup, Inc., for an amount equivalent to up to 10% of Axtel’s common stock. For c) Comprehensive income (loss) income this to come into effect, the Company obtained stockholder approval (i) to increase capital by issuing Series B Shares in The balance of other comprehensive income items and its a number that was sufficient for Tel Holding to issue and pay activity as of December 31, 2014 and 2013, is as follows: Series B Shares (in the form of CPOs) representing up to a 2014 2013 Net (loss) income Ps (1,918,601) 2,407,679 Other comprehensive income 41,811 Actuarial result (4,460) Effect of income tax 669 (12,460) Other comprehensive income net of deferred taxes (3,791) 29,351 Net comprehensive (loss) income Ps (1,922,392) 2,437,030 AXTEL 2014 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT / 89 FINANCIAL PERSPECTIVE (17) Telephone services and related revenues Revenues consist of the following: 2014 2013 Local calling services Ps 2,969,459 3,208,170 Long distance services 1,015,593 1,139,591 Internet and video 1,337,391 1,043,393 Data and network 1,897,673 1,860,070 Integrated services 1,568,616 1,299,653 Equipment sales 210,314 584,479 International traffic 1,234,024 763,991 Other services 363,933 387,147 Ps 10,597,003 10,286,494 (18) Construction contract During August 2014, the Company entered into a construction Income for the year is recognized following percent of contract of a building, as well as the necessary equipment completion which consider recoverable cost plus margin. thereof according to the technical features described in the contract, amounting Ps. 540,328 plus value added tax. The At December 31, 2014, income from the construction contract delivery period of the project is estimated to be completed in is comprised as follows: August 2015. Cumulative Balances of Percent of Income for the year income advances completion (%) Construction contract Ps 34,297 34,297 154,818 6.35% (19) Commitments and contingencies As of December 31, 2014, the Company has the following With respect to Telcel, the Supreme Court of Justice commitments and contingencies: (Suprema Corte de Justicia de la Nación) (“SCJN”) decided to deny the amparo trials filed by the Company (a) Interconnection Disagreements – Mobile Carriers – and Telcel, and therefore confirming the ruling issued in Years 2005 to 2007. On the second quarter of the the past by Cofetel by means of which it determined the year 2007, and the first quarter of the year 2008, the interconnection tariffs for the years 2005 to 2007. The Federal Telecommunications Commission (Comisión result of this amparo trial, do not creates an economic Federal de Telecomunicaciones) (“Cofetel”) ruled contingency for the Company due to the fact that during interconnection disagreements between the Company the years 2005, 2006 and 2007, the Company paid the and the following mobile carriers: Radiomovil Dipsa, S.A. interconnection tariffs set forth by the Cofetel in the above de C.V. (“Telcel”), Iusacell PCS, S.A. de C.V. and others mentioned disagreements. (“Grupo Iusacell”), Pegaso PCS, S.A. de C.V. and others (“Grupo Telefonica”) and Operadora Unefon, S.A. de C.V. (“Unefon”). 90 / AXTEL 2014 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT FINANCIAL PERSPECTIVE With respect to Grupo Iusacell, Grupo Telefonica and to the fact that these new rulings might be, once again, Unefon, the Company filed an administrative review challenged by the parties involved. proceeding, which was resolved on June 19, 2013 by the Cofetel and by means of which it revoked its previous With respect to Grupo Telefonica, the Cofetel determined rulings and determined tariffs only for years 2005 to on October 20th, 2010, the interconnection tariffs for Axtel 2007, therefore annulling the tariffs set forth for the period and Grupo Telefonica applicable to the period between 2008 to 2010. Such tariffs are being contested in an 2008 and 2011, which consider the same amounts set amparo trial. In the new resolutions, Cofetel determined forth by the SCT in the ruling issued on September 1, a weighted average tariff, as it had initially done so with 2008, that is, $0.5465 pesos per real minute for 2008, Telcel, which can be applied to Grupo Iusacell, Grupo $0.5060 pesos for 2009, $0.4705 pesos for 2010, and Telefónica and Unefon if the interconnection rate were $0.4179 pesos for 2011. not applied and their services were being sold at a price below such rate. This ruling was challenged via amparo trial by Grupo Telefonica, and was solved, at first stage, to dismiss the It is important to note that the constitutionality of the amparo trial and denying it to Grupo Telefonica. weighted average rate for Grupo Iusacel, Grupo Telefónica and Unefón was already validated by the Therefore, Grupo Telefonica has challenged the first Second Federal Collegiate District Court in Administrative instance judgment, which is pending to be solved by the Matters Specialized in Unfair Competition, Broadcasting Second Federal Collegiate District Court in Administrative and Telecommunications (Segundo Tribunal Colegiado Matters Specialized in Unfair Competition, Broadcasting de Circuito en Materia Administrativa Especializado and Telecommunications (Segundo Tribunal Colegiado en Competencia Económica, Radiodifusión y de Circuito en Materia Administrativa Especializado Telecomunicaciones). en Competencia Económica, Radiodifusión y Telecomunicaciones). The result of the above mentioned proceedings do not create an economic contingency to the Company With respect to Grupo Iusacell and Unefon, the Cofetel due to the fact that for years 2005, 2006 and 2007, it determined the interconnection tariffs for the years of paid the interconnection tariffs order by Cofetel in the 2008 to 2010 on the second quarter of the year 2009, aforementioned resolutions. such determination being challenged by the Company via an administrative review proceeding, which is in Important to note that, regarding the decision by the the process of being solved by the IFT. As a result, the courts on the issue of Weighted Average Rate, the interconnection tariffs are not yet definitely defined, due Company presented several amparo trials concerning to the fact that these new rulings might be, once again, the Federal Telecommunications Institute (Instituto challenged by the parties involved. Federal de Telecomunicaciones) (“IFT) has not resolved the request to determine the Weighted Average Rate As a consequence of the rulings issued by the SCT on as substitute interconnection rate to be applied to the September 2008, the Company recognized since August termination of interconnection traffic destined for Telcel, 2008, the interconnection tariff of: $0.5465 pesos, Iusacell, Unefon and Grupo Telefonica networks. $0.5060 pesos, $0.4705 y $0.4179 per real minute for Telcel, and of $0.6032 pesos for the other mobile carriers. (b) Interconnection Disagreements – Mobile Carriers – Years 2008 to 2011. With respect to Telcel, the Company The tariffs that the Company was paying prior to the filed an interconnection disagreement early on the year rulings, was of $1.3216 pesos per real minute to Telcel, 2008, such proceeding being decided in first instance and $1.21 pesos per rounded minute to the other mobile by the SCT, on the first day of September, 2008, which carriers. as mentioned before, arose from a proceeding filed by Axtel. In such ruling, the SCT set the cost based As of December 31, 2014, the difference between the interconnection tariffs of $0.5465 pesos, $0.5060 pesos, amounts paid by the Company according to these tariffs, $0.4705 and $0.4179 pesos for the years 2008, 2009, and the amounts billed by the mobile carriers, amounted 2010 and 2011, respectively. to approximately Ps. 2,251 million not including value added tax. Telcel challenged the resolution issued by the SCT via amparo trial, and on February, 2012, the SCJN ruled that After evaluating the actual status of the foregoing the SCT had to standing to decide on the administrative proceedings, and taking into consideration the review proceeding filed by Axtel, and that the Cofetel is information available and the information provided by the the authority that should determine such interconnection legal advisors, the Company’s Management consider tariffs, therefore the Federal Telecommunications Institute that there are enough elements to maintain the actual (Instituto Federal de Telecomunicaciones) (“IFT”) will accounting treatment, and that at the end of the legal have to set forth the interconnection tariffs applicable proceedings, the interests of the Company will prevail. between Axtel and Telcel, and consequently, the interconnection tariffs are not yet definitely defined, due (c) Interconnection Disagreements – Telmex – Years AXTEL 2014 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT / 91 FINANCIAL PERSPECTIVE 2009 to 2013. In March 2009, the Cofetel resolved delivers the long distance traffic. Based on this resolution, an interconnection disagreement proceeding existing the Company paid approximately Ps. 20 million in between the Company (Axtel) and Teléfonos de excess. Telmex challenged the resolution before the México, S.A.B. de C.V. (“Telmex”) related to the rates Federal Court of Tax and Administrative Justice, and such applicable for the termination of long distance calls from proceeding in the evidence stage. the Company to Telmex with respect to year 2009. In such administrative resolution, the Cofetel approved a On May 2011, the Cofetel issued a ruling resolving an reduction in the rates for termination of long distance calls interconnection disagreement proceeding between applicable to those cities where Telmex does not have Telmex and the Company, related to the tariff interconnection access points. These rates were reduced applicable to the termination of long distance calls from Ps. 0.75 per minute to US$0.0105 or US$0.0080 from the Company to Telmex, for the year 2011. In per minute (depending on the place where the Company such administrative resolution, the Cofetel approved a delivers the long distance call). reduction of the tariffs applicable for the termination of long distance calls. The above mentioned tariffs were Until June 2010 Telmex billed the Company for the reduced from US$0.0126, US$0.0105 or US$0.0080 termination of long distance calls, applying the rates that per minute, to Ps.0.04530 and Ps.0.03951 per minute, were applicable prior to the aforementioned resolutions, depending on the place in which the Company is to and after such date, Telmex has billed the resultant deliver the long distance traffic. Telmex challenged this amounts, applying the new interconnection rates. As ruling before the SCT, but the request was dismissed of June 30, 2014, the difference between the amounts by such authority. Nowadays, Telmex challenged paid by the Company to Telmex according to the new such dismissal, before the Federal Court of Tax and rates, and the amounts billed by Telmex, amount to Administrative Justice, and such proceeding pending for approximately to Ps. 1,240 million, not including value resolution. added tax. Finally, in July 2013, Cofetel ruled on an administrative Telmex filed for the annulment of the proceeding with the review proceeding between Telmex and the Company in Federal Court of Tax and Administrative Justice (Tribunal connection with the tariffs applicable to the termination Federal de Justicia Fiscal y Administrativa) requesting of long distance calls from the Company to Telmex for the annulment of Cofetel’s administrative resolution. the years 2012, 2013 and 2014. In such administrative The Company (Axtel and Avantel) have a contingency in resolution, Cofetel determined for year 2012, tariffs case that the Federal Tax and Administrative Court rules per minute that go from Ps.0.02831 to Ps.0.01007, against the Company, and as a result, establishes rates depending if it is a regional or national node; for year different to those set forth by Cofetel. 2013, tariffs that that go from Ps.0.02780 to Ps.0.00968, depending if it is a regional or national node; and for year In April 2014, the Upper Chamber of the Federal Court of 2014, tariffs that that go from Ps.0.02838 to Ps.0.00968, Tax and Administrative Justice (Sala Superior del Tribunal depending if it is a regional or national node. Telmex Federal de Justicia Fiscal y Administrativa), ruled on the challenged this resolution in an amparo trial which was annulment trial started by Telmex, in which the validity of solved, at first stage, dismissing the amparo trial and the administrative resolution that was being disputed was denying it to Telmex. confirmed in favor of Axtel. Therefore, Telmex has challenged the first instance Telmex filed a direct amparo suit against the ruling issued judgment, which is pending to be solved by the Second within the annulment trial, which shall be resolved by the Federal Collegiate District Court in Administrative Matters First Federal Collegiate District Court in Administrative Specialized in Unfair Competition, Broadcasting and Matters Specialized in Unfair Competition, Broadcasting Telecommunications (Segundo Tribunal Colegiado and Telecommunications (Primer Tribunal Colegiado de Circuito en Materia Administrativa Especializado de Circuito en Materia Administrativa Especializado en Competencia Económica, Radiodifusión y en Competencia Económica, Radiodifusión y Telecomunicaciones). Telecomunicaciones). As of December 31, 2013, the Company believes that In January 2010, the Cofetel resolved an interconnection the rates determined by the Cofetel in its resolutions will disagreement proceeding existing between the Company prevail, and therefore it has recognized the cost, based (Avantel) and Telmex related to the rates for the on the rates approved by Cofetel. termination of long distance calls from the Company to Telmex with respect to year 2009. In such administrative As of December 31, 2009, there was a letter of credit resolution, the Cofetel approved a reduction in the rates for U.S. $ 34 million issued by Banamex in favor of for termination of long distance calls applicable to those Telmex for the purpose of guaranteeing the Company’s cities where Telmex does not have interconnection obligations, which were acquired through several access points. These rates were reduced from Ps. 0.75 interconnection agreements. The amounts under the per minute to US$0.0126, US$0.0105 or US$0.0080 per letter of credit were drawn by Telmex in the month of minute, depending on the place where the Company 92 / AXTEL 2014 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT FINANCIAL PERSPECTIVE January 2010, claiming that Avantel had debts with such of advertising, and of neutrality of networks in company. As of December 31, 2013, Avantel has been connection with its service of internet access. able to recover the entire amount mentioned above, through compensation with regard to certain charges for Some of these obligations are pending the issuance services rendered by Telmex to Avantel on a monthly of the applicable regulations, or that certain date basis. is met or that the Company is in the situation prescribed by the applicable law. (d) Interconnection Disagreements – Grupo Iusacell – Years 2012-2013. In October 2014, IFETEL solved The company took the required actions and an interconnection disagreement between Grupo controls in order to be in compliance with all the Iusacell and the Company (Axtel / Avantel), related to obligations that were born with the entry into force interconnection tariffs for termination services switched to and effect of the LFTyR, and is carrying out the mobile users under the modalities “calling party pays” and necessary actions in order to comply with the new “nationwide calling party pays” for the period 2012-2013. obligations that are still pending on the issuance of In that resolution IFETEL determined tariffs per minute of the applicable secondary regulation and/or of the Ps. 0.3214 for 2012 and Ps. 0.3144 for 2013. fulfillment of the applicable deadlines. This ruling was challenged by Grupo Iusacell and is (d) In compliance with commitments made in the pending before the First District Court in Administrative acquisition of concession rights, the Company Matters Specialized in Unfair Competition, Broadcasting has granted surety bonds to the Federal Treasury and Telecommunications (Juzgado Primero de Distrito and to the Department of Communications and en Materia Administrativa Especializado en Competencia Transportation amounting to Ps. 2,256 and to other Económica, Radiodifusión y Telecomunicaciones). service providers amounting to Ps. 1,093,683. As of December 31, 2014, the Company believes that (e) The concessions granted by the Department the rates determined by the IFETEL in its resolutions will of Communications and Transportation (SCT) prevail, and therefore it has recognized the cost, based establish certain obligations to the Company, on these rates. including, but not limited to: (i) filing annual reports with the SCT, including identifying main (e) The Company is involved in a number of lawsuits and stockholders of the Company, (ii) reporting any claims arising in the normal course of business. It is increase in common stock, (iii) providing continuous expected that the final outcome of these matters will services with certain technical specifications, (iv) not have significant adverse effects on the Company’s filing monthly reports about disruptions, (v) filing the financial position and results of operations. services’ tariff, and (vi) providing a bond. (f) On July 14, 2014, it was published in Mexico’s Official (f) The Company leases some equipment and facilities Gazzette (Diario Oficial de la Federación) the new under operating leases. Some of these leases have Federal Telecommunications and Broadcasting Law renewal clauses. Lease expense for year ended (the “LFTyR”), which entered into force on August 13, December 31, 2014 and 2013 amounted to Ps. 2014. In terms of the LFTyR, and since it was effective, 846,608 and Ps. 866,695, respectively. the previous Federal Telecommunications Law and the Federal Radio and Television Law ceased to be effective, The annual payments under these leases as of and likewise, it was also provided by the same, that all December 31, 2014 are as follows: regulations and administrative provisions in such matter which were previously issued, will remain in full force and effect except in what they oppose to the new LFTyR. In accordance with the new LFTyR, there were established new legal obligations for the Company in the field of Leases contracts in: telecommunications, including the following obligations Mexican Pesos with respect to: USD (thousands) (thousands) 2015 Ps 50,919 27,854 (a) New rights applicable to users in general, as well as for users with disabilities. 2016 41,135 23,659 (b) Collaboration with the Justice. 2017 30,126 22,480 (c) Registration and reporting activities in connection 2018 19,309 20,521 with its active and passive infrastructure. 2019 12,516 20,014 of installation and operation of its public telecommunications network, including the 2020 and thereafter 46,622 137,954 obligation to avoid charges for domestic long Ps 200,627 252,482 distance calls since January 1, 2015, in the field AXTEL 2014 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT / 93 PROFILE Memory parameters G4-20 / G4-21 / G4-31 / G4-33 AXTEL Integrated Report for 2014 presents the result of the The performance results reflect AXTEL operations including company’s performance from January 1st through December corporate offices, administrative centers, and operations 31, 2014. It has been elaborated in accordance to the G4 in all the country. It does not include supplier information, version of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) guidelines with unless the document specifies so, nor shows results from essential conformity, and its information has been verified shareholders, clients and/or business partners by an external supplier through interviews and the review of internal documents. Cristina M. Cuéllar García Social Responsibility ccuellar@axtel.com.mx Tel. 52 81 8114 1244 Adrián de los Santos Escobedo Corporate Offices Bulevard Díaz Ordaz Km 3.33, L1 Investors Relations Col. Unidad San Pedro adelossantos@axtel.com.mx San Pedro Garza García, N.L., Tel. 52 81 8114 1128 México, C.P. 66215 www.axtel.mx/sustentabilidad Julio Salinas Lombard Media Relations jusalinas@axtel.com.mx Tel. 52 81 8114 1144 Materiality G4-18 / G4-19 / G4-20 / G4-21 An exhaustive research and consultation process was carried c. Review public information from AXTEL in out in 2014 with stakeholders in order to determine materiality communication media during 2014. of AXTEL Integrated Report for 2014 and identify the relevant d. Review of observations of rating agencies. topics in regarding our business sustainability. D. Materiality definition: with the information obtained in the research, the identification of the indicators to be reported The activities carried out during this exercise were: was carried out, which were validated by the Social A. Project planning: meetings with the Social Accountability Accountability area at AXTEL. team from AXTEL B. Preparing for information gathering: mapping and selection After the culmination of this process, the material topics were of stakeholders, definition of companies to include in the updated on which AXTEL is reporting its economic, social sectorial benchmarking, survey design. and environmental performance, with this 2014 report as the C. Execution: data and research data gathering. result. The principles of balance, comparability, accuracy, a. Surveys to a sample of 6 thousand 382 individuals. The punctuality, clarity and reliability groups consulted were: collaborators, investors, media, clients, suppliers and organizations in civil society. b. Analysis of 13 enterprises in the sector or similar to carry out the comparison. 94 / AXTEL 2014 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT G4-20 / G4-21 PROFILE IDENTIFICATION PRIORITIZATION VALIDATION Review of AXTEL’s Identification of Internal process where sustainability context. material aspects for AXTEL values and stakeholders. prioritizes the material aspects resultant of Elaboration of Stakeholder the exercise. AXTEL’s 2014 engagement, Identification of Integrated application of surveys, material aspects for Report. sectorial AXTEL? benchmarking and stock market valuators. Indentified material aspects Category Aspect Internal or external scope Company profile Services and technology Inside AXTEL Stakeholders’ participation Stakeholders engagement Outside AXTEL Corporate Governance Inside AXTEL Corporate governance Risks Inside and outside AXTEL Ethics Inside and outside AXTEL Ethics and integrity Fight against corruption Inside and outside AXTEL Market presence Inside AXTEL Economic Financial results Inside AXTEL Training Inside AXTEL Social performance Diversity and equal opportunity Inside AXTEL Environmental regulation compliance Inside AXTEL Environment Energy and emissions Inside AXTEL Waste management Inside AXTEL Client satisfaction Inside AXTEL Product Responsibility Client privacy Inside AXTEL AXTEL 2014 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT / 95 PROFILE GRI Index (G4-32) GRI G4 Version for essential conformity. External Field Indicator Description / Direct Answer Page Verification Strategy G4-1 Statement from Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer 03 and Analysis G4-2 Impacts, risks, and opportunities 15 G4-3 Name of the Organization 07 G4-4 Brands, products and/or services 07, 18 G4-5 Headquarters of the Organization 07 G4-6 Countries where we operate 07 Nature of ownership and legal form G4-7 AXTEL, S. A. B. de C. V. Markets served Mexico City, Monterrey, Guadalajara, Puebla, Toluca, León, Querétaro, San Luis Potosí, Saltillo, G4-8 Aguascalientes, Ciudad Juárez, Tijuana, Torreón (Laguna Region), Veracruz, Chihuahua, Celaya, 18 Irapuato, Ciudad Victoria, Reynosa, Tampico, Cuernavaca, Mérida, Morelia, Pachuca, Hermosillo, San Juan del Río, Xalapa, Durango, Villahermosa, Acapulco, Mexicali, Cancún, Zacatecas, Matamoros, Nuevo Laredo, Culiacán, Mazatlán, Coatzacoalcos, Minatitlán. G4-9 Scale of the organization 06 G4-10 Employment 38 Profile Collective Agreement G4-11 Non-material. G4-12 Supply chain in the organization 30 Significant changes during the period covered G4-13 There are no significant changes in the structure, ownership or supply chain in AXTEL during 2014. G4-14 Precautionary principle 14 G4-15 Social, environmental, and economic programs and initiatives 23 Presence in associations Axtel is part of the Chamber of the Electronics, Telecommunications and Information Technologies (CANIETI), where it participates actively promoting topics of interest for all the Telecommunications G4-16 industry, providing knowledge and strategies that support the improvement of quality and contents in the services offered to the consumers. Besides being members of the following Chambers and Associations: National Chamber of the Cable Telecommunications Industry, CANITEC; Mexican Industrial Chamber Confederation, CONCAMIN; Coordinating Business Council, CCE; Telecom Council of Silicon; TM Forum. G4-17 Operational Structure 07 Material Aspects and Coverage G4-18 Content definition 94 G4-19 Material aspects 94 G4-20 Coverage / Limitations on scope or coverage / Information inclusion in case of joint ventures 95 G4-21 Coverage / Limitations on scope or coverage / Information inclusion outside of the organization 95 Effect of any re-statement of information from prior reports G4-22 There is no re-statement of information in regards to prior reports. Significant changes related to previous reports G4-23 There are no significant changes related to previous reports G4-24 Stakeholders 26 Stakeholders G4-25 Sakeholders selection 26 G4-26 Participation with stakeholders 26 G4-27 Topics emerging from stakeholders 26 96 / AXTEL 2014 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT PROFILE External Field Indicator Description / Direct Answer Page Verification Period covered by report G4-28 From January 1st to December 31, 2014 Date of most recent previous report G4-29 2013 Reporting cycle G4-30 The AXTEL Integrated Report is submitted annually G4-31 Contact 94 Memory Profile Table of Contents and conformity option G4-32 96 The AXTEL Integrated Report is presented for essential conformity External verification In AXTEL we submit our report to an external revision process to consolidate credibility and truthfulness of the data in the report towards our stakeholders. The development of this report was accompanied by the verifying firm, Redes Sociales LT, SA de CV,an independet organization whose personnel is G4-33 trained to evaluate if the reports provides a reasonable and balanced image of AXTEL’s sustainable 94 performance, taking into account the veracity of the data included, as well as the general selection of content (materiality). As a result, the verifying firm has turned in a recommendation report to improve our compilation, validation and presentation of data processes about hte company’s sustainable performance. There is no evidence that there is a relation between AXTEL and Redes Sociales that may contradict the ethical principles of verification standars such as ISAE 3000. G4-34 Corporate Structure Governance and Committees 13 G4-35 Process of highest governance body in delegating its authority to top management. 15 G4-36 Executive or accountable positions in economic, environmental and social matters 15 G4-37 Corporate governance consultation process 13 G4-38 Corporate Governance 07 G4-39 Corporate Governance 07 G4-40 Corporate Governance assignment and selection 07 07, 13, G4-41 Conflict of interest management 16 G4-42 Corporate Governance 07 G4-43 Corporate Governance 07 G4-44 Corporate Governance performance assessment 07 G4-45 Identification and management of impacts, risks, and opportunities 15 Governance G4-46 Corporate Governance 15 G4-47 Corporate Governance 15 Committee or highest position approving sustainability report G4-48 General Director G4-49 Communication of important issues with the highest governance body 13 G4-50 Nature and number of concerns conveyed to the highest governance body 16 G4-51 Compensation policies for the highest governance body and top management 07 G4-52 Processes through which compensation is determined 07 G4-53 Corporate Governance 07 Relation between the best compensated individual with average total annual compensation of all G4-54 workforce Confidential Information Relation between percentage of increase of the best compensated individual with percentage of G4-55 increase of average total annual compensation of all workforce Confidential Information AXTEL 2014 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT / 97 PROFILE External Field Indicator Description / Direct Answer Page Verification G4-56 Values, principles, standards, and rules in the organization 07 Ethics and G4-57 Internal and external mechanisms in counseling in favor of an ethical and lawful behavior 16 Integrity G4-58 Internal and external mechanisms to report unethical or illicit behaviors. 16 G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated 54 Consequences, risks and opportunities due to climate change G4-EC2 We do not have the information Benefit program G4-EC3 We do not have the information Economic support granted by governments G4-EC4 In AXTEL we did not receive economic support from government G4-EC5 Standard entry wage 38 G4-EC6 High executives local hiring 37 G4-EC7 Investments in infrastructure and services provided for public benefit 06 Indirect economic benefits Changes in productivity in organiztions, sectors or total economy: Due to the Constitutional Reform and the creation of a new Federal Law for Telecommunications Economic Performance and Radio broadcasting, one of the most significant proposals is opening competition in the telecommunication market to foreign investment. This will contribute positively to the economy and the telecommunications market enabling new competitors to enter and generate new opportunities for the consumers. This will impact so there is no battle for interests on the part of the existing operators and mainly work together in order to offer better services. Economic development in areas with high poverty indices: One of the most important objectives is to realize collaboration projects with governments and the Ministry of Communication and Transportation in order to develop and offer services in areas where there are few telecommunication services suppliers. This as part of the social and rural coverage G4-EC8 committment, to promote development and growth of education in information technology and communication of more communities. Economic impact from improvement or deterioration of social or environmental conditions: When realizing service coverage projects in more areas in the country, we consider there will be a positive impact in having services such as Internet. This helps improve education conditions for more people and remain connected with society. This wil increase productivity, starting with schools and libraries, and later in hospitals or enterprises that require this connectivity. Product and service availability for people with low rents: AXTEL, as part of the compliance of its concesion titles, makes available to the SCT, connection of its telecommunications services in low resources zones, where using our own coverage and infrastructure, to collaborate with the municipal and state governments in the development of schools, hospitals, and libraries so they may have Internet services and telephony at lower prices than the ones registered for the rest of the consumers. G4-EC9 Suppliers 30 G4-EN1 Materials used by weight and volume 51 Recycled materials G4-EN2 In AXTEL we do not use recycled materials to provide the service offerings in our portfolio. Environmental Performance G4-EN3 Internal energy consumption 47 G4-EN4 External energy consumption 47 G4-EN5 Energy intensity 47 G4-EN6 Energy consumption reduction 46 G4-EN7 Reductions in energy requirements for products and services 46 G4-EN8 Total water collection by sources 50 Water sources affected by collection G4-EN9 The water used for consumption in our operations in work centers is collected through the municipal 50 water system for each location. 98 / AXTEL 2014 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT PROFILE External Field Indicator Description / Direct Answer Page Verification Recycled and reused water G4-EN10 Non-material. Natural Spaces or high biodiversity areas G4-EN11 Non-material. Impact on biodiversity G4-EN12 Non-material. Habitat protection G4-EN13 Non-material. Affected species and habitats G4-EN14 Non-material. G4-EN15 Direct Greenhouse gas emissions (scope 1) 46 G4-EN16 Indirect emissions while generating energy (scope 2) 48 G4-EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas emissions (scope 3) 49 G4-EN18 Intensity of greenhouse gas emissions 46 G4-EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas emissions 44 Emissions of ozone depleting subtances G4-EN20 Environmental Performance Operations in AXTEL do not generate ozone depleting substances. NOx, SOx, and other significant atmospheric emissions G4-EN21 Operations in AXTEL do not produce representative NOx and SOx gases. G4-EN22 Water discharges 50 G4-EN23 Waste management 51 Significant spills G4-EN24 In 2014 there were no spills generated by our operations. G4-EN25 Hazardous waste transportation 50 Water resources G4-EN26 Non-material. G4-EN27 Mitigation of environmental impact 43 Recovery of packing materials G4-EN28 Non-material. Fines for non-compliance of environmental regulations G4-EN29 In 2014 we did not receive any fines due to non-compliance of environmental regulations G4-EN30 Environmental impact due to transportation of products and people 47 G4-EN31 Environmental expenses and investments 45,46 Percentage of new suppliers examined in regards to environmental criteria G4-EN32 During 2014 there were no new suppliers for significant transactions. Significant, real and potential environmental impacts in supply chain G4-EN33 There are no significant impacts, real or potential, identified, in the AXTEL supply chain Number of environmental complaints G4-EN34 In 2014 there were no environmental complaints G4-LA1 Employee hiring and turnover 38 Social Performance Employee benefits Work Practices and G4-LA2 In AXTEL there are no differences in the benefits granted to full-time and part-time employees. Some of these benefits are life insurance, medical expenses, food bonus, savings, paternity and maternity Dignity leave, vacations of 100 percent and 30 days Christmas bonus per year. G4-LA3 Reincorporation to work and retention for maternity or paternity 38 AXTEL 2014 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT / 99 PROFILE External Field Indicator Description / Direct Answer Page Verification Pre-notification of organizational changes and specification in collective agreement G4-LA4 The minimum notice period of time related to organizational changes is 12 weeks and is established in our sindicalized collaborators’ collective agreement. Health and Safety Committees G4-LA5 75 percent of unionized collaborators are represented in health and safety committees . G4-LA6 Absenteeism and lost days 41 Health G4-LA7 Social Performance Work Practices and Dignity Non-material. Health In the Industrial Safety Area, the accident record in 2014 remained 4% lower than the average in G4-LA8 professional and technical providing industry, in accordance to the Labor and Welfare Ministry, which represents a decrease of 13% regarding 2013. In regards to the indicator of accident severity, it decreased in 45.42% compared to the national average recorded by the Ministry of Labor and Welfare. G4-LA9 Training 40 G4-LA10 Training 40 G4-LA11 Professional Development and Performance 40 Diversity G4-LA12 Non-material. Ratio of base salary between men and women G4-LA13 Confidential information Percentage of new suppliers examined in regards to labor criteria G4-LA14 During 2014 there were no new suppliers hired with significant transactions. Negative, significant, real and potential impacts in work practices in the supply chain G4-LA15 During 2014 there were no negative impacts on labor practices in AXTEL supply chain. Number of complaints regarding work practices G4-LA16 Non-material. Investment agreements including human rights clauses G4-HR1 Non-material. G4-HR2 Training on human rights 16 G4-HR3 Discrimination incidents 16 G4-HR4 Freedom of association 16 Social Performance Human Rights G4-HR5 Actions taken against child exploitation 16 G4-HR6 Actions taken against forced labor 16 G4-HR7 Security personnel training 16 Indigenous rights G4-HR8 In AXTEL there were no cases of human rights violations of the indigenous people during 2014 G4-HR9 Centers assessed based on Human Rights 16 Suppliers analyzed based on human rights G4-HR10 We do not have this information Negative, significant, real and potential impacts on human rights in the supply chain G4-HR11 There are no significant negative impacts on the supply chain in regards to human rights Number of complaints related to human rights that have been turned in, addressed and solved through formal conciliation mechanisms. G4-HR12 In 2014 there were no complaints received regarding human rights of the collaborators, clients or any other stakeholder 100 / AXTEL 2014 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT PROFILE External Field Indicator Description / Direct Answer Page Verification G4-SO1 Impact on communities 31, 33 Operations with negative significant, possible or real impact in local communities. G4-SO2 During 2014 there were no negative impacts due to our operations in the communities where we provide services. Number and percentage of centers assessed in regards to corruption risks and significant risks detected 100 percent of the work centers are assessed based on corruption risks. During 2014 there were G4-SO3 some corruption activities detected by storage personnel, as well as personnel in charge of recording clients or services in the company control systems; as a consequence, the individuals involved were dismissed. Likewise there were reviews carried out on possible piracy practices on services, which at the end were rejected. Social Performance Society G4-SO4 Employees trained in anti-corruption policies and procedures 16 G4-SO5 Actions taken in response to corruption incidents 16 Contributions to political parties or related institutions. G4-SO6 In 2014 there were no financial contributions or in kind given to political parties or related institutions. Anti-trust and free competition In AXTEL we submitted a complaint to the Federal Communications Institute against our key competitor G4-SO7 due to insertion of recordings in calls, which was solved in our favor with a penalty for the competitor for 49 million 320 thousand MXN for anti-trust procedures hindering our productive process in the long distance service markets ending. Fines and sanctions for legislation and regulations non-compliance G4-SO8 In 2014 there were no sanctions or significant fines for this concept. Percentage of new suppliers examined on social impact criteria G4-SO9 During 2014 there were no new suppliers hired with significant transactions. Significant, real and potential, environmental impacts for society in the supply chain. G4-SO10 During 2014 there were no new suppliers hired with significant operations. Number of claims regarding social impacts G4-SO11 During 2014 there were no claims on social impacts. Assessment of product life cycle in regards to health and customer safety G4-PR1 Non-material. Non-compliance of regulations for voluntary codes on health and safety G4-PR2 Non-material. Social Performance Product Accountability Information and product labeling G4-PR3 Non-material. Non-compliance of regulations and voluntary codes on labeling G4-PR4 Non-material. G4-PR5 Customer satisfaction practices 32 Adherence to voluntary codes in advertising G4-PR6 Non-material. Incidents related to marketing, advertising, promotion and sponsoring. G4-PR7 Non-material. Claims for violation of customer data privacy In 2014 we received a claim from IFAI, in regards to a claim submitted by a client in regards to data G4-PR8 management. The complaint was addressed in accordance to requirements in this organization. Likewise we received 4 claims from the clients who requested their ARCO rights (access, rectification, cancelation and opposition) out of which 3 were founded and resolved. Fines for non-compliance in regulations regarding product and service G4-PR9 In 2014 there were no fines received on this concept AXTEL 2014 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT / 101 PROFILE Certifications and re-certifications 2014 MONTERREY Tier III Design Uptime Institute Level 3 ICREA ISO 9001:2008 BSI ISO / IEC 27001:2005 BSI ISO / IEC 20000 1:2011 BSI TULTITLAN Tier III Design Uptime Institute Level 3 ICREA OTHER CITIES ISO 9001:2008 ISO 20000 1:2011 ISO 27001:2005 Gold Certified Partner CISCO CERTIFICATIONS 2014 Advanced Collaboration Architecture Specialization Advanced Borderless Network Architecture Specialization Advanced Data Center Architecture Specialization Master Cloud and Managed Services Program (CMSP) Telepresence Video Master Authorized Technology Provider (ATP) Identity Services Engine Authorized Technology Provider (ATP) ISO 9001 BUREAU VERITAS Certiﬁcation 102 / AXTEL 2014 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT PROFILE Independent Letter of Confirmation of the AXTEL 2014 Conclusions Annual Integrated Report.  The AXTEL 2014 Annual Integrated Report complies Scope of our Work with the general basic and specific contents to comply with the Essential option of the Guide of We performed an independent and impartial review on version G4 of the Global Reporting Initiative for the the content of the AXTEL 2014 Annual Integrated Report. preparation of Sustainability Reports. Our work consisted of reviewing the content of the report  There was no evidence that the content of the in terms of meeting the performance indicators as indicators reviewed and the information of AXTEL's determined by the materiality study conducted by the sustainable performance contain errors. organization, and in compliance with the standards of version G4 of the Global Reporting Initiative, (GRI).  The review process shows in this Report provides a balanced and timely communication of the For confirmation purposes, Redes Sociales considered the indicators selected for the verification. ethical principles of independence of ISAE 3000, the methodological references of the AA1000AS standard, the GRI publication 'The external assurance of Recommendations sustainability reporting', as well as the guidelines of other standards that AXTEL contemplated in the preparation of Based on our work, we are able to provide the following its report, such as the principles of the Global Compact. general recommendations: Summary of Activities  According to the changes that may arise in the organization or its business environment, we Redes Sociales performed the following verification recommend reviewing the validity of the material actions: matters for the preparation of the following report.  We recommend reviewing the guide Sustainability Topics for Sectors: What do stakeholders want to know? in the 'Telecommunication Services' section in − The validation of the materiality determination order to detect areas of opportunity for the contents process and of the selection of the indicators for the of the 2015 report. development of contents. − The analysis of the information collection and validation processes. − Constant feedback with the persons who participated in the preparation of the Report. − The confirmation of the correct coverage of the indicators included in the Report. Mariana Martínez Valerio − Comparison of the 2014 report Redes Sociales en LT S.A. de C.V with the 2013 report in terms of T. (55) 54 46 74 84 / contacto@redsociales.com the monitoring of programs, the increase of indicators and the consideration of previous Statement of independence, competence and responsibility of Redes Sociales LT recommendations. Redes Sociales' employees have the levels of skills necessary to confirm the due compliance of the standards used in the preparation of Sustainability Reports; therefore, they are qualified to issue professional opinions on companies' reports − The confirmation of the conceptual and Redes Sociales' responsibility consisted of conducting a limited review of the report. Under no circumstance may our confirmation statement be understood numerical fairness based on a selection as being an audit report; therefore, we not assume any liability whatsoever on of the performance indicators. the management and internal control systems and processes from which the information is obtained. AXTEL will also be provided with areas of opportunity and observations detailed in a verification report for internal use. The preparation of the report, its contents, as well as the procedures and/or systems used for the collection of the information are the responsibility of AXTEL. AXTEL 2014 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT / 103 $
