General Period covered by your Communication on Progress (COP) From: From 14th December 2013 to 13th December 2014 Statement of continued support by the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) Please provide a statement of your company's chief executive expressing continued support for the Global Compact and renewing your company's ongoing commitment to the initiative and its principles (Please include name and title of the chief executive at the bottom of the statement). I am pleased to confirm that UNIGLOBE Northline Travel Ltd reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti -­‐ Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours, N.N Mugo (Mrs.) Managing Director UNIGLOBE Northline Travel Ltd Communication on Progress (COP) for GLOBAL COMPACT Human Rights Principles Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Assessment, Policy and Goals Description of the relevance of human rights for the company (i .e. human rights risk‐assessment). Description of policies , public commitments and company goals on Human Rights. At UNIGLOBE Northline Travel Ltd we work hard to attract the best people in the industry. We train them well, furnish them with the best tools available and position them for success -­‐ we truly value their worth to the organization. We recognize that we are responsible for the impact of our activities on our employees, on clients and on the communities in which we operate. We promote and protect human rights and freedom by establishing clear ethical standards for ourselves and by fostering similar standards in all our operations contact points. Examples • Reference to (statement of support for) the Universal Declaration of Human Rights or other international standards • Written company policy on respecting Human Rights and preventing potential abuses (e .g. in code of conduct) • Policy requiring business partners and suppliers to adhere to the principles on Human Rights • Assessment of Human Rights related risks and impact in industry sector and country(ies) of operation (see Risk Assessment Report at www.humanrightsbusiness.org ) • Specific goals in the area of Human Rights for the upcoming year Implementation Description of concrete actions to implement Human Rights policies, reduce Human Rights risks and respond to Human Rights violations. It is our belief that the environment and communities in which we operate should benefit from our presence. Our UNIGLOBE® Code of Professional Conduct is a directive to all individuals within the UNIGLOBE® system as to how to conduct themselves with competitors, associations, clients and the general public. It’s your responsibility to ensure that all agency staff have read and understand the Code of Professional Conduct and follow it. Communication on Progress (COP) for GLOBAL COMPACT CODE OF PROFESSIONAL CONDUCT: To accomplish the UNIGLOBE® objectives, adherence to the Code of Professional Conduct by all employees is paramount. 1. In all details of relationships with competitors, associates, clients and the public, UNIGLOBE® people shall observe a high standard of professional conduct and the UNIGLOBE® Code of Ethics. 2. As professionals, UNIGLOBE® people shall ensure that their knowledge of the travel industry, and its trends and developments, remains up-­‐to-­‐date. 3. An attitude of co-­‐operation shall be maintained among all levels of UNIGLOBE® people, from International to the Regions to the Franchises, and in reverse, as well as among Franchisees. 4. UNIGLOBE® people shall strive at all times to protect and enhance the UNIGLOBE® name and image; they shall maintain consistently high standards of professionalism and performance, throughout the entire UNIGLOBE® organization. 5. UNIGLOBE® people shall conduct business with fairness and integrity and shall not engage in any activity or practice which may result in public criticism of UNIGLOBE® or the travel industry in general. 6. Any difference or dispute between agencies concerning a client shall be resolved internally without involving the client. 7. UNIGLOBE® Franchisees shall not solicit or hire staff or outside agents from another UNIGLOBE® agency without prior written consent of the other Franchisee. UNIGLOBE® Franchisees shall not solicit any customer that does business with another UNIGLOBE® agency. Examples • Suggestion box, call center or grievance mechanism • Awareness raising or training of employees on Human Rights • Consultation with stakeholders and affected parties • Allocation of responsibilities for the protection of Human Rights within your company • Human resource policies and procedures supporting Human Rights Measurement of outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates performance. We monitor and evaluate all allegations of all violations of human rights policy requirements of our CODE OF PROFESSIONAL CONDUCT in a centralized database and investigation are carried out by our trained HR manager. Remedial measures are uphold and disciplinary measures are taken against the employee found to be violating code of conduct and communication on breach learning are made to all employee to enhance behavioral change. From time to time the management dully review the human rights violation trend act on by providing training on specific topic. Communication on Progress (COP) for GLOBAL COMPACT Labour Principles Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Assessment, Policy and Goals Description of the relevance of labour rights for the company (i .e. labour rights‐related risks and opportunities). Description of written policies, public commitments and company goals on labour rights. We comply to our HR Policy which offer guidance concerning our employee labour rights, compensation and responsibility. Including:-­‐ ü Reasonable / Universal working hours – we create work –life balance, whereby every employee has a right to rest and leisure periodically with pay ü Anti-­‐ discrimination – we promote and our entire employees have the right to expect the basic human identity, dignity and integrity. Our working environment if free from unfair discrimination ü Child Labour -­‐ we do not employ children under the age of 18 year. ü Fair Remuneration package – we have fare reward system we work with. We recognise the skills and contribution of all our employees are justly and fairly remunerated. More so, we firmly committed to ensuring the safety, occupational health and well being of our employees, suppliers and clients is safe guarded. Examples • Reference to ILO Core Conventions or other international instruments • Written company policies to uphold the freedom of association and collective bargaining and theelimination of forced labour, child labour and employment discrimination • Written policies that clearly state employee rights and responsibilities and their compensation and benefits • Policy requiring business partners and suppliers to adhere to the Labour principles • Assessment of labour‐related risks in the industry sector and country(ies) of operations • Specific goals in the area of Labour Rights for the upcoming year Communication on Progress (COP) for GLOBAL COMPACT Implementation Description of concrete actions taken by your company to implement labour policies, reduce labour risks and respond to labour violations. We monitor and evaluate all allegations of all violations of human rights policy requirements of our CODE OF PROFESSIONAL CONDUCT in a centralized database and investigation are carried out by our trained HR manager Lead role is undertaken by our HR department . Actions taken to implement labour policy and reduce labour risk include:-­‐ v All our employee are enrolled to medical insurance v All our employee are entitled to seek medical and access the medical institutions under which our medical insurer has enlisted them. v Ours employees are encouraged to participate in our annual employee value survey to express any concerns and propose improvements to their working welfare v Our business premises -­‐ we conduct hazard/safety risk assessment to gauge the degree of risk associated and mitigate them. Examples • Suggestion box, call center or grievance mechanisms • Awareness raising or training for employees on labour rights and policies • Describe how the health and safety of all employees is ensured • Describe how your company prevents discrimination of all kinds and ensures comparable pay for comparable work • Consultation with employees and other stakeholders • Allocation of responsibilities for the protection of labour rights within your organization • Human Resource policies and procedures supporting the Labour principles • Participation in international framework agreements and other agreements with labour unions Measurement of outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates performance. Examples • Demographics of management and employees by diversity factors (e.g. gender, ethnicity, age, etc.) • Describe how your company deals with incidents of violations of the Global Compact Labour principles • Investigations, legal cases, rulings, fines and other relevant events related to Labour • Periodic review of results by senior management Communication on Progress (COP) for GLOBAL COMPACT • Specific progress made in the area of Labour during the last reporting period • External audits (e .g. SA 8000) Our management has had an excellent working relationship with its employee by encouraging discussion and enforcement of labour law. The handling of any violation of labour policies are dealt in a systematic procedure which requires appropriate investigation and proper disciplinary process We promote “Zero Harm Safety culture within our premises Environmental Principles Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Assessment, Policy and Goals Description of the relevance of environmental protection for the company (i .e. environmental risks and opportunities). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on environmental protection. Our goal is to achieve and maintain environmental sustainability – a condition where our business cause neither long –term critical depletion of natural resources nor lasting damage to species, habitats and climate. Our environmental policy sets out the commitments we have made to achieve this by REDUCE – REUSE – RECYCLE in our business operations. As a minimum, we expect our suppliers and partners to have a clear environmental policy statement in place and to be commited to developing and applying appropriate environmental management system Examples • Assessment of the environmental footprint and impact of your company • Written company policy on environmental issues, including prevention and management of environmental risks • Policy requiring business partners and suppliers to adhere to the environmental principles • Describe specific goals in the area of the environment for the upcoming year Communication on Progress (COP) for GLOBAL COMPACT Implementation Description of concrete actions to implement environmental policies, reduce environmental risks and respond to environmental incidents. As we operate in travel industry, where carbon emission into the environment is critical! We seek to minimize the impact of owned and contracted logistics by encouraging an environmental friendly approach to v select modes of transport to our clients v Vehicle efficiency v Fuel type v Driving style and journey planning v Hotel efficiency As a minimum, we usually provide carbon emission reports to our clients to reflect the extent to which their travel have polluted the environment. Examples • Awareness raising or training of employees on environmental protection • Initiatives and programmes to reduce waste materials (e.g. recycling) and consumption of resources (energy, fossil fuels , water, electricity, paper, packaging, etc.) • Activities aimed at improving the energy efficiency of products, services and processes • Development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies • Raise awareness among suppliers by asking for the environmental footprint of products or services • Environmental management system to identify, monitor and control the company’s environmental performance • Allocation of responsibilities for environmental protection within your company Measurement of outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates environmental performance. We work closely with initiative that promote tree planting activities. We encourage all our staff to participate in tree planting activities such as: • Green Africa foundation tree planting activities • Kenya Wildlife Foundation tree planting activities Communication on Progress (COP) for GLOBAL COMPACT Anti‐Corruption Principles Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Assessment, Policy and Goals Description of the relevance of anti‐corruption for the company (i .e. anti‐ corruption risk‐assessment). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on anti‐corruption. UNIGLOBE Northline Travel does not condone the offer or acceptance of bribes in any form, anywhere we operate. Our stand against corruption is synonymous with our integrity as a business and our pride in what we do. We are committed to work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Our goal is to continue providing education to all levels of employees and third parties about corruption as well as what to do should one encounter it. Examples • Assessment of risk of corruption and bribery in the company’s industry and country(ies) of operation • Written company policy of zero‐tolerance for corruption, bribery and extortion • Reference to (or statement of support for) the UN Convention Against Corruption and other international instruments • Protocol to guide staff in situations where they are confronted with extortion or bribery • Policy requiring business partners and suppliers to adhere to the anti‐ corruption principles • Specific goals in the area of anti‐corruption for the upcoming year Implementation Description of concrete actions to implement anti‐corruption policies, reduce anti‐corruption risks and respond to incidents. UNIGLOBE NORTHLINE TRAVEL LTD has taken the following measures to prevent corruption in its work locations:-­‐ v All employees joining UNIGLOBE NORTHLINE TRAVEL LTD are taken through our Code of Conduct, which includes sections on anti-­‐corruption during the new-­‐joiner induction process. v We have Speak Up email address that is available to all our employees and third party business partners to report any suspected violations. The Communication on Progress (COP) for GLOBAL COMPACT email is investigated by a third party provider. v All employees have been made aware of their responsibility to report any suspected fraudulent activities through their line managers, Legal Counsel, Human Resources. v Employees who are implicated in corruption are taken through a strict disciplinary process and learnings arising from substantiated breaches are normally communicated to employees for learning purposes. v As part of our annual employee self-­‐certification programme, all employees provided a certification to confirm whether they have conflicts of interest during execution of their responsibilities in December 2014. v Employees are required to maintain gift registers to record all gifts/entertainment received or offered during the course of duty. The registers are reviewed on a monthly basis by the line managers to ensure that improper gifting and entertainment is identified and remediated on a timely basis. Examples • Suggestion box, call center or grievance mechanisms • Awareness raising or training of employees about company's policies regarding anti‐corruption and extortion (e .g. mailings, internet, internal communication, etc.) • Allocation of responsibilities for anti‐corruption within the company • Participation in industry initiative or other collective action on anti‐ corruption Measurement of outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates anti‐corruption performance. All allegations of breach of UNIGLOBE Northline Travel Ltd anti-­‐corruption policy and code of conduct are investigated carefully and, if substantiated, appropriate action taken in relation them. This include:-­‐ v Disciplinary process for employees which may result in termination of employment v Learning’s being communicated to employees for educational purposes The company monitors breaches on a quarterly basis and establishes the trend in allegations and all findings on area of conflict of interest, fraud and improper payments. Communication on Progress (COP) for GLOBAL COMPACT
