UN GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLES Sustainability Report 2014 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally Impact Assessment Health and Safety page 10-15 page 16-19 Managing impact proclaimed human rights People Development page 20-29 Make sure that they are not complicit Health and Safety page 16-19 in human rights abuses People Development page 20-29 Businesses should uphold the freedom People Development page 20-29 of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining The elimination of all forms of People Development page 20-29 forced and compulsory labour The effective abolition of child labour People Development page 20-29 The elimination of discrimination in People Development page 20-29 respect of employment and occupation Businesses should support a Impact Assessment page 10-15 ­precautionary approach to Environmental Impact page 37 environmental challenges Product Cases page 38-43 Undertake initiatives to promote Impact Assessment page 10-15 greater environmental responsibility Environmental Impact page 37 Product Cases page 38-43 Encourage the development and Impact Assessment page 10-15 diffusion of environmentally friendly Environmental Impact page 37 technologies Product Cases page 38-43 Businesses should work against Compliance page 30-33 corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery Hours of safety Whistle blower Fatalities Lost Time training per employee cases Injury Frequency Rate FLSmidth & Co. A/S Vigerslev Allé 77 Tel.: +45 36 18 18 00 Fax: +45 36 44 11 46 corppr@flsmidth.com www.flsmidth.com 10 12 0 2.7 DK-2500 Valby, Denmark CVR No. 58180912 Up from 7.6 Down from 3.9 FLSmidth: CSR REPORT 2014 Table of content Hours of safety training per employee Lost time injury frequency rate 10 2.7 Letter from our CEO 4 up from 7.6 down from 3.9 FLSmidth at a Glance 6 Page 16 Page 16 CSR in FLSmidth 8 Impact Assessment 10 Health and Safety 16 Female Tonnes People Development 20 managers CO2 Compliance and Export Control 30 Community Responsible Sourcing 34 36 10.3% 45,800 down from 82,000 Environmental Impact 37 Page 25 Page 37 Product Cases 38 Substantial Regional Compliance whistle blower cases Representatives 12 12 About this Report Page 30 Page 32 The 2014 Sustainability Report describes the FLSmidth Group’s Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) efforts and is also FLSmidth’s Communication on Progress to the United Nations Global Compact. The scope of this Report is the entire FLSmidth Group. The case stories included have been selected because they represent the areas in which we have made significant progress Fatalities CO2 during 2014. per employee 0 3.1 The first large part of the Report describes progress within the FLSmidth focus areas, which are closely related to our business conduct. The second part of the Report consists of case stories about our technological and innovative progress, supporting our vision of delivering technology that creates sustainable value for our customers, and thereby also for their down from 5.4 societies and the environment. Page 16 Page 37 The reporting period is 1 January 2014 to 31 December 2014. 2 3 FLSmidth: CSR REPORT 2014 Letter from our CEO Responsible impact Though some may find it tempting to scale down sustainContinuously providing training and development opability efforts in challenging economic times, in FLSmidth portunities for our people is essential for our long term we have used the downturn to demonstrate our commitsuccess as a responsible employer. By investing in our ment to sustainability. We have achieved remarkable results global workforce, our employees tend to be retained in 2014, and I am proud to present them in this Report. I by the company in greater numbers, they improve their am confident that our commitment to sustainability will employability and increase their skills over time. We also make FLSmidth come out of the cyclical downturn as a focused on strengthening the leadership competencies in stronger and more valuable partner to our customers. FLSmidth by having 520 managers attending the Transitional Leadership Training program. Additionally, the Flying the In 2014, we carried out an impact assessment in Egypt to Flag leadership training program, designed to strengthen assess the impacts of our business, gaining new insight competencies in value-based leadership and strategy, was into how we create value for our customer when we initiated for our top 300 specialists and managers. deliver on an Engineering, Procurement and Construction contract followed up by an Operation & Maintenance We operate in many countries, including some considered contract (EPC/O&M). The combined solution we call DBO high risk for illegal activity. We do not tolerate unlawful – Design, Build, Operate. Based on a socioeconomic behaviour in FLSmidth, which is a central point in our cost-benefit analysis, studies such as this are a very awareness campaign running throughout 2014. We signifconcrete way of quantifying the impact of a responsible icantly strengthened our guidelines for internal investigaapproach. The impact assessment showed that by building tions. Further, we scaled up our internal investigations of a strong local organization and applying efficient and potential fraud and corruption and implemented addieffective use of our own equipment and expertise, we tional means for reporting them. Our new whistle blower delivered a 10 percentage point higher utilisation rate hotline had 12 substantiated cases in 2014, indicating than the average of the Egyptian cement industry, while that our employees are aware of our commitment to at the same time minimizing the socioeconomic costs. ethical behaviour and willing to take action to strengthen This shows that, due to our value-based approach, we are our compliance efforts. a quantifiably more valued partner to our customers than our competitors in the Egyptian cement industry. I hope you will enjoy reading about how we live up to our continuous commitment to UN Global Compact in Our commitment to keeping FLSmidth a safe workplace this report. has been backed up by the implementation of an even stronger Health and Safety organisation in 2014. We reduced our number of safety-related incidents, resulting in Best Regards, We have used the downturn a 29% drop in our Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) Thomas Schulz to demonstrate our commitment to from 3.9 to 2.7. Furthermore, we have made safety tarGroup CEO, FLSmidth & Co. A/S sustainability and our customers. gets a mandatory part of our personal incentive plans for Thomas Schulz managers, setting it high on the agenda for every leader. Group Chief Executive Officer 4 5 FLSmidth: CSR REPORT 2014 FLSmidth at a Glance C USTOMER SER VIC E S P R O D UC T C O M PA N IE S MINERALS CEMENT Our Customer Services division includes customThe Product Companies division includes Our Minerals division covers minerals processOur Cement division consists of our capital cement er services activities, O&M, Excel, retrofits and a number of product companies sharing ing and materials handling technologies. The activities and large upgrade projects. The target for upgrades, Meshcape, FLSmidth Ludowici services supply chain and back office functions. The target for the Minerals division is to become the Cement division is to continuously grow its business and Pneumatic Transport and is a clear priority target of the Product Companies division strongest project and systems provider in the by delivering complete plants and systems. within FLSmidth. is to ­globalise and grow FLSmidth’s unique minerals industries. product brands. Who we are services and operation of processing facilities. How we are organised Product Companies division will be created FLSmidth is a leading supplier of equipment and Our core strengths are reflected in our marketIn 2014, FLSmidth was divided into four divito foster globalisation and growth of services to the global cement and minerals inleading product range, our ability to implesions: Customer Services, Material Handling, FLSmidth’s unique product brands. dustries. We operate in more than 50 countries ment, manage and maintain projects, and our Mineral Processing and Cement. and have major project and technology centres unmatched operation of minerals and cement Vision in Denmark, USA, Germany and India. We are processing plants worldwide. Looking forward, in continuation of the We will be our customers’ preferred full headquartered in Valby, Denmark and employ 2013 strategy health-check, it was decided service provider of sustainable minerals and 14,765 people around the world. Through more than a century of innovation and to change FLSmidth’s organisational struccement technologies. experience, FLSmidth has developed a vast global ture, and as of 1 January 2015, FLSmidth What we do pool of specialised engineering resources. We will be organised in two project divisions, a Company values To our global customers in the minerals and focus on copper, gold, coal, iron ore, fertilizer product division and a service division. The Over the past 133 years, FLSmidth has cement industries, FLSmidth supplies everything minerals and cement, and are a one source Material Handling and Mineral Processing developed a business culture based on three from core equipment, process know-how, comsupplier of products, ­solutions and services to divisions will be merged into a Minerals fundamental values, which are firmly rooted plete processing plants, maintenance, support these industries. division. Cement and Customer Services will in our Danish heritage: competence, cooperbe maintained as separate divisions. A new ation and responsibility. FLSmidth in numbers 133 years 14,765 Presence in Revenue of 1.5% of revenue Lost Time Injury of history and employees more than EUR 2,834 million invested in research and ­Frequency Rate experience worldwide 50 countries in 2014 development in 2014 (LTIFR) 2.7 6 7 FLSmidth: CSR REPORT 2014 CSR in FLSmidth Long-term focus on Safe working conditions for all employees, customers and FLSmidth pursues a strategy of continuous and open contractors is high on the agenda in FLSmidth. We continudialogue with our stakeholders in order to enhance transpositive impact ously strive to improve our Health and Safety competencies parency and trust, while maintaining a high standard of and lower all safety risks and hazards. sustainable approaches to operations and partnerships. For more information and examples of stakeholder dialogue, see Being a global company means we are present in emerging www.flsmidth.com. markets and some countries where corruption is perceived to be a significant issue. We put special emphasis on ensuring The FLSmidth CSR Board CSR Strategy Wherever we operate, we strive to adhere to a set of that FLSmidth employees and business partners do business The CSR Board was established in 2010 and has regular FLSmidth’s Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) strategy policies. Our CSR policy lays the foundation for how we in a legal manner. For FLSmidth, a high level of integrity and discussions about our strategy and development supports our business strategies by adding a long-term focus operate around the globe and is centered on our three compliance is a prerequisite for doing business. ­opportunities. The members of the CSR Board are: on responsibility. Our CSR efforts aim at creating shared company values. Through our Human Rights Policy we value e.g. by continuously improving our Health, Safety commit to respecting human rights and our Human ReEmployees are our most valuable asset and are critical to the Thomas Schulz, Group CEO and Environment (HSE) competences, delivering sustainable sources Policy states that we offer equal opportunities for success of our organisation. With 14,765 people employed Virve Elisabeth Meesak, Group Executive technology, respecting people and developing our employall employees, which is further elaborated in our Diversity globally, it is material that our employees have fair working Vice President, Group Human Resources ees. The underlying rationale behind all our CSR activities Policy. Our commitment to mitigating risk related to climate conditions, equal opportunities, development plans and that Olli Haavisto, Senior Vice President, Group Supply is to create value for our main stakeholders; i.e. customers, change is anchored in our Health, Safety and Environment all human rights and labour rights are respected. Chain & Quality shareholders, employees, suppliers and the community. Policy, which states that “an essential element of […] Ole Bak, Senior Vice President, O&M The purpose is to become a more valuable partner to our excellence involves assessing the environmental impact With around 8,000 equipment suppliers globally, minimising Pernille Friis Andersen, Senior Vice President, customers and all our stakeholders. of our operations and business activities to protect the supply chain-related risks is important, both in relation to Corporate Communications, Investor Relations, environment”. Our expectations towards our suppliers are HSE, human rights, and ethical business conduct standards, CSR & Group Marketing At FLSmidth, we aim to align CSR with business operations expressed in our Code of Supplier Conduct, which among and also in relation to improving the quality of supply. Jeppe Kromann Haarsted, Global Compliance Manager as part of our global business strategy. Having signed the other things focus on human rights, labour rights, safe and Ann-Katrine Havris Lundgaard, Group CSR Manager UN Global Compact in November 2008, FLSmidth committed healthy working conditions, environmental protection and Stakeholder dialogue itself to supporting the United Nations ten principles regardbusiness ethics. Engaging with our stakeholders helps us make sustainable ing human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption, decisions and solutions. At FLSmidth, we define our stakeas well as reporting on progress made. Materiality holders based on whether they are affected in some way by The objective of FLSmidth’s CSR activities is to support our our activities and operations, be it as customer, employee, The FLSmidth CSR Policy business and improve our long-term performance by adding investor, business partner or society in general. Based on FLSmidth’s 133 year history and our corporate values an increased focus on responsibility. Therefore, it is essential – competence, responsibility and co-operation – the company that a given CSR activity is aligned with our business strategy. has formed a culture around respecting individuals and helping Through ongoing dialogue with our business partners and to protect societies and the environment. Our history and major stakeholders, we constantly verify that our CSR areas Main stakeholders commitment to being a responsible company provided the focus on those issues which are most relevant to our business. framework for FLSmidth’s CSR policy, published in 2008. Customers CSR ambitions in value chain Business Employees partners FLSmidth Supp lier > > > > F L Smidt h > > > > C u s tom e r > > > Hos t C ou n tri e s > Sustainable long-term > Health and Safety > Quality products > Economic Development relationships > Compliance > Safe Products > Job Creation > People Development > Sustainable Products > Environment > Responsible Sourcing > Business Ethics > Compliance Society & Investors / > Environmental Footprint > People Development environment shareholders 8 9 FLSmidth: CSR REPORT 2014 FLSmidth Impact Assessment Managing impact Cement is vital for a developing economy and producing Cooperation cement has a socioeconomic impact on the local society. The cooperation between FLSmidth and ACC Ramliya is Therefore, FLSmidth set out to determine the social, enviessentially a partnership. What benefits one part also benronmental, economic and customer impact of our strongest efits the other, and vice versa. ACC is a determined front offering to the global cement industry, Engineering, Procurerunner in the Egyptian cement industry. They drive processment & Construction followed up by Operation & Maintees forward that lead to positive socioeconomic impacts and nance (EPC/O&M), by conducting an impact assessment. together we create shared value. As operator of the plant, FLSmidth acts on behalf our customer which is customer We initiated the impact assessment study in order to intimacy at its best. understand how we create value to our customer. The impact assessment took a holistic approach by looking at Responsibility social, environmental, customer and economic impacts and At Ramliya, we take responsibility and ensure that our the case we used was Ramliya in Egypt, a cement factory employees have a safe working environment. We constantly with a clinker capacity of 4.2 tpa, where FLSmidth has an strive to lower our energy usage and environmental footEPC/O&M contract with the owner, Arabian Cement Comprint. We also take responsibility for the education of future pany (ACC). generations of engineers through our partnership with Helwan University by supplying the knowledge and means The main finding of the Ramliya impact assessment showed for teaching about cement. that, due to the way we operate, we offer an extended value proposition to our customer. Compared to the Egyptian Conclusion cement industry average, we deliver a 10 percentage point The conclusion of the impact assessment is that ECP/O&M is an higher utilisation rate at Ramliya, while also using 14% less extended value proposition, where we deliver more value than energy and having three times fewer dust emissions per ton just the man and machine. In the case of ACC Ramliya, their of cement than the industry average. The impact assessment partnership with FLSmidth resulted in a 10 percentage point showed that our impacts are interrelated, and therefore, that higher utilisation rate than the average of the Egyptian cement our positive customer impact is closely linked with our social industry, which demonstrates how we add quantifiably more and environmental impact. The key to our success comes value while keeping socioeconomic costs at a minimum. from our company values: The optimum point Competence At Ramliya, Production Manager Mahmoud Abdel Ghanry As operator of the plant, FLSmidth can draw upon compeexplains his production philosophy. “The challenge is to find tencies of a unique pool of cement specialists, based in our the optimum point of production where everything is in major technology centres or travelling around the world. If balance and the machines can keep on running. At this we have a challenge with a machine, we can even call upon point, we have the lowest energy usage, lowest heat conthe specialists who have designed and installed it. sumption, optimal production and lowest cost. That is the FACTS FACTS FACTS FACTS art of production and it is a question of finding the right At Ramliya, our human resource competencies have enabled balance to avoid breakdown.” Negative impacts Positive impacts Negative impacts Positive impacts us to keep employee turnover to a minimum and retain valuRestrictions and an inconsistRamliya has a 10 percentage In 2012-2013, NOx emissions Only 1% of the extensively able competencies through developing our people. We have Mr. Ghanry further explains how people are central to keepent gas supply have forced point higher utilisation rate were relatively higher than trained local staff are expats. Ramliya to switch to coal, than the industry average, in 2014, when the legal The site has an employee built a strong local organisation and have development plans ing a stable production, “Equipment is equipment, but the leading to an increase of with an estimated increase limits were introduced. The turnover of only 1.5%. for all employees, increasing their employability and building people operating the equipment are the key to finding the 12% in CO2 emissions. Howin revenue of EGP 493m in emissions were due to the use ever, if they hadn’t switched 2012-2013. of gas that gives high flame their individual skills and job competencies over time. This optimum point. That is why we have development plans for to coal, Ramliya would have Ramliya has very low SO2 and temperature and therefore The site’s Health and to import clinker, leading to CO2 emissions. In addition, also high NOx emissions. Safety performance was has enabled us to have the right skill set and knowhow to all our employees and why we put tremendous effort into even higher CO2 emissions Ramliya accounts for 6% of Since tighter NOx restrictions considered unsatisfactory due to transport. From a socithe total cement production of 600 mg/m3 were impleby FLSmidth standards maintain optimal production on site. training them. At the end of the day, it is the people operatoeconomic perspective, coal in Egypt, but is only responsimented in 2014, Ramliya has in 2012 and 2013, but through a dedicated effort ing the machine that will determine how it will run, and that is the least harmful solution. ble for 2% of dust emissions, produced with an average of significant improvements a result that is completely 423 m g/m3. takes the right knowledge and experience.” unrivalled in the industry. have been achieved in 2014. 10 11 FLSmidth: CSR REPORT 2014 FLSmidth Impact Assessment Socioeconomic impact of a responsible business model ECONOMIC IMPACTS Job creation Ramliya/FLSmidth Egypt • Direct jobs: 272/937 jobs • Indirect jobs: 695/2,335 jobs • Induced jobs: 264/887 jobs SUPPLY OF DOMESTIC CEMENT • Use of coal will secure domestic cement production • If 30% of domestic cement production is replaced by import, it is expected to result in the loss of nearly 19,000 jobs and EGP 16.5bn in Gross Value Added GROSS VALUE ADDED from cement industry CUSTOMER • Direct: EGP 24bn SOCIAL • Indirect: EGP 23bn IMPACTS • Induced: EGP 8bn IMPACTS • Total GVA: EGP 55bn MARKET SHARE HEALTH and SAFETY ACC’s market share has increased • LTIFR 2012-13 too high from 2.9% to 7.9% due to • LTIFR 2014 improved • High utilisation rate • High demand/high price LOCAL JOBS segment • 99% of employees are Egyptians • Extended customer reach TRAINING REVENUE • Own training; FLS-Institute • 10 percentage point higher • 85% of all employees trained utilisation rate with an estimated • 35-65% jump in knowledge increase in revenue of EGP 493m • Change in job behaviour after in 2012-2013. training rated as satisfactory or very satisfactory EBITDA • 10 percentage point higher EDUCATION utilisation rate is estimated • Together with Helwan University, to have increased EBITDA by EGP 178m in 2012-2013 ENVIRONMENTAL FLSmidth established a postgraduate diploma degree in IMPACTS cement engineering CO2 EMISSIONS • When using gas, Ramliya’s CO2 emissions are below industry average • Shift to coal will increase Ramliya‘s CO2 emissions by around 10% ENERGY • 14% lower Gj/t cement than Egyptian industry • Consistently lower over last three years SO2, CO and TSP EMISSIONS • Low SO2, CO and TSP emissions • ACC Ramliya emits 2% of total TSP but accounts for 6% of the total cement production Positive impact NOx EMISSIONS • 2011-2013 too high though Negative impact there was no legal limit • Health impact uncertain due to desert location 12 13 FLSmidth: CSR REPORT 2014 FLSmidth Impact Assessment CSR creating value for our customer The impact assessment shows how strategic CSR enables FLSmidth to build a strong local organisation that is capable People of ensuring optimal production, which in turn generates positive customer impacts. Low LTIFR 2.6 Low employee turnover 1.5% CSR Results Customer Impact 85% employees trained Health & Availability High utilisation rate Safety 2013 98% 10 percentage point higher than industry People average Development Reliability 2013 93% Providing the means for Local increased market share Organisation Optimal Production from 2.9% to 7.8% Quality Optimal 14% lower Gj/t cement 13% higher EBITA Production compared to industry margin than industry average average Use of Alternative Providing the possibility Fuels for selling cement to a high price and high Three times lower dust quality segment emissions per tonne cement compared to industry average Low SO2 and CO 14 15 FLSmidth: CSR REPORT 2014 FLSmidth Health and Safety A safe working environment At FLSmidth, we believe that a safe working Safety Chairman and the Case: FLSmidth supports our customers Case: New Site Safety Handbook environment is imperative to our long-term Safety Walk with safety A new Site Safety Handbook for safety performance on our success. If employees are not safe, they are Each year at FLSmidth, we appoint a new FLSmidth Upon request from Mongolyn Alt (MAK) Group, Sergey customers’ sites was published in 2014. The goal of the neither able to do their job, nor should they. “Chairman of Safety” from our Group ExecuAvramenko, HSE Coordinator at Customer Service, FLSmidth Handbook is to establish a global standard for what FLSmidth tive Management. The person assuming the visited the construction site. Sergey states, “During my regards as good safety on-site. Worldwide, this common Our safety mind-set requires a constant role is responsible for raising the safety bar inspection, I found some lapses in safety in work completed standard creates a shared Health and Safety framework for effort and is fundamental for long-term across the entire FLSmidth Group. Reinforced by the construction contractor. I summarised my findings our many technical specialists and supervisors working in success. To ensure that we are continufocus on safety will be introduced every year Customer and improvements to be completed by the contractor. These numerous countries and on varied projects. The Rules set ously building a safe working culture and when a new member of the Group Executive findings were then handed over to my Health and Safety expectations on safety in a clear way and are applicable to all environment, we have a Health, Safety Management takes up this responsibility. counterpart at MAK and to the contractor.” FLSmidth employees and contractors while they are working and Environment (HSE) policy in place that for FLSmidth, even when working at customers’ sites. describes our ambitions and the direction of As FLSmidth’s 2014 Safety Chairman, Bjarne Along with project managers from MAK and the contractor, our endeavours, with safety as our top priMolkte Hansen launched a new safety initiHost Countries Sergey completed a safety tour around the entire site. ority. In 2014, we have further simplified our ative, the Top 100 Managers’ Safety Walk. Together, they inspected and discussed the concerns. “We The FLSmidth Site Safety Rules: health and safety organisation, by ensuring Every time a Top 100 Manager visits an also discussed corrective measures during the safety walk 1. Say “STOP” to unsafe acts and conditions that every country has a Health and Safety FLSmidth location or a project, the manager and prepared a corrective action plan” said Sergey. 2. Only undertake work for which you are Representative. now performs a safety walk, inspecting and trained and competent initiating a dialogue around safety with the “I had a follow up meeting with our customer and the plan FACTS 3. Report all injuries, near miss incidents and At FLSmidth, the fact that our culture management on-site. The idea is that fresh was approved the same day,” FLSmidth Project Manager hazards immediately prioritises Health and Safety ties directly to eyes offer a fresh perspective, especially for Lars R. Olsen remarked. He has since then visited the site 4. Always assess the risks before initiating any task the high quality of our products, services routines and processes that are often taken Reduction in the rate of and noted that safety has improved remarkably. lost time injuries from 129 5. Use required and maintained personal and processes. We believe that one of the for granted in everyday life. Engaging in a in 2013 to 92 in 2014 protective equipment benefits of having a safety culture is that productive and open dialogue about safety He adds, “We have had frequent safety meetings with MAK 6. Only work at heights with correct fall protection it encourages questioning structures and ensures that it stays on top of employees’ 22,060 safety training and the contractor in order to make a joint effort to ensure hours during safety week 7. Keep workplace tidy and maintain good procedures and improving them when there minds and that safe behaviours are prioritised. implementation. The construction work on the site has now housekeeping is a need. At our research and development 147.400 hours spent on been in progress for more than two years without any major 8. Only operate tools or equipment with correct facilities, we are constantly finding new safety training, equivalent accidents”. guards installed of 10 hours per employee ways to improve our products with increased 9. Obtain work permit when required safety and value to our customers. One of 10. Only work on equipment with correct energy our objectives is to reduce safety hazards isolation through good design. At FLSmidth, we value nothing higher than the health and safety of our employees. We believe that all work-related incidents, injuries and occupational illnesses can be prevented, and we recognise that achieving this depends first and foremost on our competencies, mind-set and culture. FLSmdith HSE policy 16 17 FLSmidth: CSR REPORT 2014 FLSmidth Health and Safety Case: 87% reduction of Case: ‘Lock-out tag-out’ injuries at Qingdao Sometimes safety is about simple but effecAchievement 2014 Achievement 2014 Achievement 2014 The Qingdao factory in China, one of tive measures. When FLSmidth is maintaining FACTS Reduction in total number of Two O&M sites in Chile HSE Safety & Quality week conFLSmidth’s largest in-house production equipment for our customers, such as a belt facilities, employs 400 people and is conveyer, procedures such as ’the lock-out reported injuries and an LTIFR certified in January 2015 ducted in 2014 with activities specialised in assembly and production of tag-out’ procedure must be in place to ensure at 2.7 reaching the target for (OHSAS 18001 + ISO 14001). in all FLSmidth countries. 49 locations had 0 lost time key components. Since 2010, the amount safety. It is a bulletproof method, making injuries and 25 had 0 injuries 2014. Targets for major busiThat brings O&M up to six 22,060 safety training hours out of a total of 90 reporting of injuries have dropped 87% due to it impossible to start up the conveyor while locations in 2014 ness units were established to certified units covering around ­conducted during the week investments in Health, Safety and Environsomeone is maintaining it. support the line management 2000 employees plus an addiment (HSE) at Qingdao, both in technical During the Safety Week in evaluating performance tional number of contractors 2014 in India, courses solutions but also HSE management, safety The rule is simple; all specialists have a perincluded topics such as firefighting, safe driving, stress training and safety awareness training. sonal padlock and before the work on the management, safe defensive techniques for women and conveyer is started, the padlock is attached other safety-­related subjects We have installed a new paint booth, blasting to the power supply when the power is disbooth, a new ventilation system and other connected. Only one person has the key and During the safety week in Achievement 2014 Achievement 2014 2014, 5,600 manhours in improvements to provide a better working therefore it is impossible for anyone else to India alone were spent on safety training 28 Group HSE audits A personal safety target will environment. The new highly advanced ventiremove the padlock and start the conveyor, ­conducted in different be included in FLSmidth’s lation system ensures that exhaust fumes, e.g. even by accident. The power can only be recountries worldwide Global Cash Incentive Plan for those from flame cutters, plasma cutters and connected after removal of all padlocks. It is all participants welding are removed from the workshop air, a simple rule which is standard in FLSmidth, thereby protecting the workers from harm. globally. When visiting the factory, the results are visible to the eye today. The workshop floor has become a more structured working space after the increased focus on HSE. Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) HSE Advisor Peter Lindtorp says, “When 25 you know what to look for, it is obvious 20 what the change has been. While prior 2012 Target 2015 Target 2015 Target 2015 conditions were not harming workers, it is 2013 15 clear that the air on the workshop floor is LTIFR = 2.6 for 2015. ConFLSmidth will start working Global IT system will be imple2014 much cleaner than before”. 10 tinue strong focus on safety towards general HSE certificamented for reporting, internal awareness through internal tion from 2015 learning and follow up on 5 Group Target reporting injuries 3.5 in 2014 0 Customer Material Mineral Cement Group Cembrit FLSmidth Services Handling Processing Target 2015 Target 2015 Target 2015 15% increase in reported Near Extra focus on implementing Group HSE audits continues Miss and Hazards measured best practice on site opera– 25 audits in 2015 planned per country and / or Business tions based on the new Site Unit compared with 2014 Safety Handbook 18 19 FLSmidth: CSR REPORT 2014 FLSmidth People Development Fit for purpose People development is critical to the success tion – rather than just specific to one part of of our organisation. At FLSmidth we respect the organisation. We have implemented a human rights and we are committed to standardised way to rate and record perforFLSmidth diversity and equal rights. We must maintain mance and competency levels by rolling-out a culture of high performance, and we must the Performance and Development Review invest in our people. Therefore, we review (PDR) to all locations. the level of our competencies on an ongoing basis. This can be when we set assignments, Understanding the level of our competenCustomer when we review and give feedback on cies in the same way also enables us to do performance and when we define our effective succession planning, resulting in a strategy. When there is a gap, we invest more rewarding working environment. It in development activities as appropriate. involves calibrating ratings of performance Closing the gap ensures that we are, and and potential across departments, locations, that we remain, ‘fit for purpose’. functions, business units, divisions and the FACTS FLSmidth Group. Over the last year, we have increased the Leadership Transition level of transparency of our human reUnderstanding what competencies we have Training is an investment we have made at Group level sources in order to better understand any across our organization, the level of those identified gaps and more accurately select competencies and how sustainable they Supply Chain Learning and prioritise which development activities are is essential when deciding how we will Journey is an example of an investment made at functional to invest in. Generally speaking, this has investment in development activities. level involved moving to a more uniform set Respecting of definitions and performance measures In order to support decision-making at a Mentoring programmes are examples of investments people and across our global business. divisional-level, we have designed and begun made at local levels diversity to implement a framework for divisional Transparency in HR management teams to more systematically We have developed one set of role profiles reflect on the amount and level of compeand assigned a role profile to every employtencies in the context of their strategies. This ee. Role profiles are generic descriptions of a is called the Organisation and People Review job, applicable across functions, and define (OPR) and it is conducted every six-months what competencies are required in the job. as part of the business review. The OPR also This helps us to better understand what considers other factors critical to our success competencies we have across our organisaregarding motivation and opportunities. Leading Leaders is a fantastic leadership course. The combination of easy-to-use tools and hands-on exercises, gave me the ability to implement my learnings immediately after completion. Besides the personal gains from the training, I think that FLSmidth will benefit significantly from this common leadership approach, improving our ability to recruit and retain top talent. Søren Holm Managing Director, Head of Helios Deployment, Denmark 20 21 FLSmidth: CSR REPORT 2014 FLSmidth People Development Case: OPR in India factory. You have acquire experience while “First of all”, Mr. Hari, Vice President and working. I sometimes use the metaphor that Business Head of Cement Project Division we have to throw the guy into the water in order to teach him how to swim,” says Mr. FACTS (CPD) remarks, “the FLSmidth CDP in India is a very mature organisation, meaning that Hari. Besides functional competencies, CDP we have a very high attrition rate and many India also focus on developing the behavPerformance and Development Review (PDR) rolled-out employees have risen through the ranks ioural competencies of their employees. to all locations from trainees to department managers. But we still have to ensure that our division Case: Performance and PDR leads to better understanding our competency level remains fit for its purpose”. development review and development needs Mr. Mohan, a mechanical engineer for CDP Therefore, Mr. Hari uses the Organisation India has been with FLSmidth since 2008. Understanding competency level and development and People Review (OPR), a tool developed He explains that ever since he joined the needs enable us to do successful succession planning from the global People and Development company, he has had a very steep learning ­department. “The OPR makes us look incurve with on the job training. Recently he Systematic reflection on competencies in the context wards and assess whether our vision for the has attended training in negotiation skills. of the strategy next five years matches our resources and There was a learning need defined as a conwith a survey part we also get input from sequence of the OPR, therefore his whole Known as the Organisation and People Review (OPR) the employees on what they feel they need department attended this class. Mr Mohan in order to fulfil the strategy”. remarks, “The main takeaway I got from the Conducted by divisional management teams every class was learning to relate to different types six months The CDP in India found five key areas of imof people. We are all different and we prefer provement, one of them being people develto get information served in a way that suits Essential for deciding how we invest in strategic developopment. On the job training is an essential us. I can really use this training in my interment activities part of the training in CDP India, sometimes action with our customers. The course has including the use of mentors, “You canmade it easier for me to relate to all kinds not learn in school how to build a cement of people.” By participating in the 2014 Mentoring Program, I have been given an expanded view of other FLSmidth products and Group practices. More importantly, I now have a great relationship with an experienced colleague that I can leverage in the future, along with a sense that I work for a company that is motivated to invest in my growth. David Udy Designer, USA 22 23 FLSmidth: CSR REPORT 2014 FLSmidth People Development Case: Flying the Flag Case: FLSmidth reaches diversity goal Flying the Flag is a new global leadership development in 2014 program focused on strategy and leadership, and is based In FLSmidth, we regard a diverse workforce as strength as our company values: Competence, Co-operation and we a serve a global market. While FLSmidth hires the best Responsibility. and the brightest, regardless of gender, it is true that in our industry, diversity ambitions with regard to gender are Pernille Friis Andersen, Senior Vice President of Corpooften made more challenging by the fact that historically, rate Communications, Investor Relations, CSR & Group careers in mining, cement and engineering have attractMarketing, a participant of a recent cohort at Flying the ed more male candidates. In order to demonstrate that Flag explains, “Throughout the week, we discussed how female employees are provided opportunities to grow and our values are important to us as individuals and to the succeed in FLSmidth, we set a goal in 2013 to increase company. It is remarkable how important it is to have the the percentage of our managers who are female from right value set and how corporate values can really shape 7.2% to 10% by 2014. the company.” As of the end of 2014, the percentage of women managers Each day, the topic focused participants’ attention on was 10.3% which means that the goal has now been how to make a positive difference in FLSmidth and how reached and exceeded. to apply the learnings. Participant Darrell White, Vice ­President of Global Material Handling Proposals & Sales A number of initiatives have also been initiated, among Coordination, explains, “As part of the workshop, we them the publication of a Diversity Policy and a Female were each assigned to a team to work together on a Mentoring Program at our offices in Denmark. Additionspecific project of strategic importance to the FLSmidth ally, in 2013 FLSmidth set the goal of having 25% female Group.” He elaborates, “Appreciating who our colleagues representation on our Board of Directors by 2016, up are and what makes them think the way they do facilifrom our current level of 16.6%. tates our ability to leverage individual skills while moving as a team towards shared objectives. This collaborative mind-set ties directly to our values, and will continue to transform FLSmidth into an even greater company.” I found the procurement training exciting and informative. It addressed issues that we come across on a daily basis. I learnt where the products we procure fits in and this enabled me to work with suppliers to secure the right product, on the due date, at the right price. Desiree Grobelny, Junior Buyer, South Africa 24 25 FLSmidth: CSR REPORT 2014 FLSmidth People Development Europe North America Jobfunction Jobfunction Technicians: 1,804 Technicians: 1,104 Non Technicians: 2,010 Non Technicians: 1,443 Gender Gender Men: 3,040 Asia Men: 2,047 Women: 775 Jobfunction Women: 500 Employees Technicians: 2,000 Employees Total: 3,815 Non Technicians: 1,846 Total: 2,547 Gender Africa / Men: 3,521 Middle East Women: 325 Employees Jobfunction South America Technicians: 1,277 Total: 3,846 Jobfunction Non Technicians: 1,220 Technicians: 1,093 Gender Australia Non Technicians: 354 Men: 2,322 Jobfunction Gender Women: 175 Technicians: 44 Men: 1,301 Employees Non Technicians: 568 Women: 148 Total: 2,496 Gender Employees Men: 524 Total: 1,447 Women: 88 Employees Total: 612 26 27 FLSmidth: CSR REPORT 2014 FLSmidth People Development Achievement 2014 Achievement 2014 Achievement 2014 Strengthening leadership comStrengthening the strategic Strengthening competencies petencies at the Group level competencies and competenin strategy execution of entire through Leadership Transition cies in values-driven leadership management teams through Training with 24 deliveries for the top 300 specialists and the LEAP programme with 7 involving 520 managers managers, through the Flying deliveries the Flag program Achievement 2014 Achievement 2014 The Supply Chain Learning The mentoring programmes Journey that strengthens are examples of investments competencies around sourcing made at a local level for with 8 deliveries various purposes. In the US, for example, there were 2 deliveries involving 50 employees Target 2015 Target 2015 Target 2015 Training is delivered as reAt the Group level, 22 delivThere is follow-up with each quired in each location as well eries of Leadership Transition manager who attended as across functions, business Training involving 440 manLeadership Transition Training units, divisions and the Group. agers, three of Flying the Flag in 2014 to learn what has Notably, a review by the proinvolving 90 specialists and been applied, revisit other ject management function managers and 6 of LEAP learnings and support further application Target 2015 Target 2015 In terms of training delivered Management teams calibrate across locations, an example ratings of performance and is the 42 trainings scheduled potential to strengthen the for EMEA – such as situational quality of succession planning, leadership, project manageassociated development and ment, cross-functional training increase sustainability for specialists 28 29 FLSmidth: CSR REPORT 2014 FLSmidth Compliance and Export Control Operating globally and ethically For FLSmidth, a high level of integrity and tation of the rules. We have appointed and A global standard for Case: Handbook compliance is a prerequisite for doing trained regional compliance representatives internal investigations In 2014, we developed and published a handbook on the business. FLSmidth is a global company and around the world who can help employees FLSmidth Whistle blower reports submitted by employees increased Code of Business Conduct. The handbook describes the much of our growth takes place in emerginterpret national and international rules, in 2014. The allegations concerned a range of compliance rules in plain language and includes extensive guidance ing markets or developing countries driven and also conduct due diligence and internal issues and came from all parts of the world. We believe that on how to react in concrete risk situations described by by GDP growth. It means, to do business in investigations when needed. it is positive that our employees are stepping forward with FLSmidth employees. It is available in nine languages and countries where corruption is perceived to their concerns. almost all 14,765 employees in FLSmidth have received be an issue. Our compliance standards are We know that for compliance to succeed, Customer a printed copy. The top management of FLSmidth was high and we put special emphasis on ensurwe must make sure that our rules can be This also means that we have conducted an increasing numinvolved in the development of the book. Specifically, the ing that FLSmidth employees and business followed by our employees who may someber of internal investigations. We believe it is vital that entire Group Executive Management team gave input to partners do business in a legal manner. times find themselves in high-risk countries a serious and detailed investigation is conducted – both in the interpretation of our rules during an extensive training and in difficult situation operate in accordorder for FLSmidth to understand and face our challenges session where they were presented with and discussed some FLSmidth operates under a number of ance with the law. We have, therefore, Host Countries – and to make sure that we can stop rumours against emof the real-life dilemmas faced by FLSmidth employees. international rules in order to ensure cominvolved our top management closely in the ployees in case of false accusations. In 2014, we published pliance, and it is not without challenges interpretation of specific rules for employa detailed internal investigation manual, trained key personfor employees to understand them fully. In ees to know that they have management’s nel and invested in new tools to ensure a more professional 2014, we have therefore focused extensiveguidance and backing to handle difficult and uniform global approach to internal investigations. ly on communication and correct interpresituations. 30 31 FLSmidth: CSR REPORT 2014 FLSmidth Compliance and Export Control Case: Russian sanction Case: Third party due – The unforeseen challenge ­diligence Achievement 2014 Achievement 2014 Achievement 2014 The European Union and United States, As a global company, FLSmidth works with FACTS More than 110 sessions of Appointment and training of We significantly strengthened along with other countries, have imposed an extensive ­network of business partners sanctions against Russia in response to around the world, including the occasional in-person training in Code of 12 regionally responsible and professionalised our Russia’s annexation of Crimea and the use of third parties to facilitate or implement Business Conduct and export compliance representatives guidelines for internal investiThe Compliance Department crisis in eastern Ukraine. The imposed our projects. For some time, we have conreceived 18 internal whistle control and published in a and compliance and export gations, and trained a number blower reports in 2014, all of sanctions cover amongst other things: ducted due diligence background searches which were investigated handbook in 16,000 copies control reviews of three of people in applying them and in 2014, we initiated a programme and nine languages, explainFLSmidth entities • Approximately 300 persons have been to strengthen and formalise procedures. 17 of these cases were ing the Code of Business admissible i.e. submitted in blacklisted and have had their assets In 2015, we will be conducting a global good faith Conduct in plain language frozen risk assessment of third parties and inquire 12 cases which were sub• The sanctions target certain key sectors, about their own compliance standards. We mitted to the whistle blower hotline were substantiated e.g. some oil industry technologies and will be conducting third party due diligence products background checks more broadly and Achievement 2014 Achievement 2014 Achievement 2014 The European Union • Five Russian state banks are excluded more ­in-depth, and will strengthen our due has over a six-month period (March-September 2014) Establishment of a whistle Rollout of screening software Managing new Russia / from raising long-term loans diligence process in both pre-contract and imposed 19 Council Regulations against Russia blower hotline and a proceand screening of our supplier Ukraine sanctions and • Export of dual-use equipment for military post-contract phases. dure for internal investigations, and customer master data at implemented new export use in Russia has been banned In 2014, we conducted faceavailable to all employees, all our main entities control risk management to-face training sessions in the Code of Business Conduct for globally process In response to the sanctions, we have employees around the world implemented an extended export control procedure. The procedure means that our In 2014, we distributed more than 14,000 copies of global export control programme is continour handbook on the Code uously updated, a new “Russia Check List” of Business Conduct to 90 locations in nine languages has been designed and implemented and all orders were temporarily stopped and In 2014, we appointed and trained 12 regional re-evaluated in the light of the new export compliance representatives sanctions. around the world Target 2015 Target 2015 Target 2015 Export and compliance One of the major tasks has been to provide reviews conducted at Conduct in-person training of Establish tools for knowledge Strengthen internal controls updated training to our specially educated 7 entities 95% of all white-collar emsharing and ongoing training and internal investigations “Export Control Classifiers”, who need to ployees in FLSmidth worldwide for the regional compliance procedures in FLSmidth fully understand the specific sector regulain Code of Business Conduct. representatives and compliance tory requirements. The re-evaluation of the Complete company-wide global and export control reviews of current projects also resulted in new export survey of current compliance three FLSmidth entities license requirements for components within practices and challenges FLSmidth’s target industries to Russia. Target 2015 Target 2015 Screening software integration Roll-out third-party due into the global order handling diligence procedure, including The handbook serves as a guide in a very complex system (Helios ERP). Conduct risk assessment and screening global business environment with numerous training of nominated export laws and regulations. It is based on real-life experience control employees and genwith the challenges our people face, and it assists eral training in export control our employees in navigating their decisions and actions awareness for a broader range in doing business, so that we ensure we operate of employees in full compliance. Jeppe Kromann Haarsted Global Compliance Manager 32 33 FLSmidth: CSR REPORT 2014 FLSmidth Community Community development Case: BBBEE South Africa FLSmidth took the first step towards Case: Improving quality of Case: FLSmidth Helwan FLSmidth has been represented in South empowerment status back in 2010 when life for South African school Cement Institute Africa since 1906. Today, we support some establishing FLSmidth Roymec, which FLSmidth children In 2007, FLSmidth initiated a public-private FACTS of the biggest mining projects and emdelivers an impressive portfolio of engi30 km northwest of Mokopane in the partnership with the Helwan University in ploy approximately 1,000 people in South neering and material handling projects Limpopo Province in South Africa lies one of Egypt. The aim of the partnership was to Africa, many of whom work at one of three to international customers. Anglo American’s platinum mines, supplied improve the quality and quantity of graduates Mossesane Baloyi Primary School manufacturing centres. We recently built with FLSmidth equipment. FLSmidth made a interested in working in the cement industry. The main benefits for the the Delmas Service Supercenter, the first on “With the change in the landscape in South Customer substantial investment in the local commuschool are: the continent and only the seventh globally, Africa, there is a fundamental need for us nity through the installation of an Integrated At the Cement Institute at Helwan Univer• Rainwater harvesting and transforming it into a comprehensive afterto empower all of our businesses here – not Biomass and Algal Sanitation System (IBASS) sity, Professor Engineer Mohamed Samy storage market service and repair hub. just part of it. By doing so, we give our cusat Mossesane Baloyi Primary School, which is demonstrating FLSmidth-sponsored • Decent waterborne ­sanitation tomers access to the sort of empowerment serves 340 school age children. In addition equipment. He explains: “The students are • 14 toilets and 3 urinals (to In 2014, FLSmidth announced a new equity measures they require in their own procureHost Countries to the new sanitation system, we also innot used to a learning methodology that replace 12 pit latrines) structure in South Africa that will result in ment as well as signalling our commitment stalled a vegetable garden behind the school incorporates active problem solving, but • IAWPS integrated biogas Broad Based Black Economic Empowerment as a major multinational in responding to as part of our corporate responsibility stratfor the cement industry practical problem and algal sanitation system (BBBEE) ownership status for our South the changing dynamics of the country”, egy and commitment to the South African solving skills are required, so that is how we • Food and agricultural waste biogas digester African operations, in accordance with the says Alistair Calver, General Manager. Mining Charter. teach at the Helwan diploma degree”. • Biogas cookers for school requirements for multinational suppliers meals in the new kitchen facility to the mining industry as stipulated in the “Proper nutrition, water and sanitation Cement plant simulators enable the ProSouth African Mining Charter. are key to children’s health,” says Terence fessor to structure his teaching around a • Algal and biogas bio fertilizer Osborn, Capital Sales and Marketing Mansimulated problem which is very similar to • 500m2 of agro-ecological Going forward, Phetogo Bontle Community ager, FLSmidth Mineral Processing, South the way operators work on-site. The screens food gardens Equity will hold 25.1% shares in FLSmidth FLSmidth, as a Danish company, Africa, who continues, “Schools that have of one of the 9 FLSmidth-sponsored simulaSouth Africa, and the broad based “Phetogo remains committed to social development sanitation have better learning and retention tors show the different areas of the cement Trust” will have a 100% stake in Phetogo wherever we operate. We trust that this among school children, particularly girls. UN production, and just as in the control room Bontle Community Equity. The Trust will fund will further improve our relationship with all numbers show that for every 10% increase of the Ramliya plant, the monitors tell the various Corporate Social Investment initiaof our customers and suppliers. in female literacy, a country’s economy can story of what is going on in the plant. The FACTS tives and support the integration of minority Peter Lohrmann grow by 0.3 percent and in FLSmidth, we blinking kiln sign indicates a challenge for groups into the economy. Managing Director, FLSmidth South Africa. recognise our responsibility for improving the student to solve. “I create a problem the quality of life of the communities in for the students to identify. They don’t have FLSmidth Helwan Cement Institute which we are present.” any idea what it is beforehand. Working 27 out of the 33 graduates this way enables them to solve problems from first phase have a job This is the most significant CSR project for hands on. The students develop themselves us in South Africa to-date” says Terence through learning by doing in a safe environ11 have been hired by FLSmidth Osborn, Capital Sales and Marketing ment”, Dr Halim Bassuiny says. ­Manager, Mineral Processing, South Africa. 11 are working in other “Of course, this would not be possible industries without the theoretical knowledge from 5 are still doing military service the classroom. These two things have to go hand in hand. In the beginning of this 6 are currently unemployed project we were very engaged in train the trainer activities, which are now paying off because the teaching is done by local Helwan professors,” Abeer Morsy, FLSmidth training manager adds. 34 35 FLSmidth: CSR REPORT 2014 FLSmidth FLSmidth Responsible Sourcing Environmental Impact Sustainable Aligned supply chain organisation In 2014, we realigned our internal Supply set of expectations, FLSmidth and our supIn 2014, we established a more uniform Discounting Cembrit scope 1 emissions in Chain structure to centralize, standardise pliers are better able to open and maintain and aligned financial organisation in 2013 amounted to 15,300 tonnes which and streamline the way we conduct busiconstructive dialogue, share common goals FLSmidth FLSmidth, designating Country CFO roles in 2014 only was 12,700. Scope 2 in 2013 FLSmidth ness with our suppliers. Through having and define improvement areas including folfor the individual countries in which we was 37,100 which in 2014 were reduced to a more simplified structure, we are more low-up action plans. Our goal is to increase operate. As a result, FLSmidth will have 33,100. The reductions in Scopes 1 and 2 able to work closely with our suppliers and transparency in the Supply Chain and proincreased visibility into and reporting on come as a direct consequence of the global communicate our requirements, monitor mote sustainable and continuous improvecountry-specific business performance, efficiency programme running throughout compliance, improve performance, build ment as a way of doing business for all. Customer including environmental impacts of our 2014 in FLSmidth. As part of the programme, Customer competencies and partnerships. local operations. we have consolidated many companies At FLSmidth, our company values; Comand office buildings, thereby reducing our In 2014 we have worked on a new FLSmidth petence, Co-operation and Responsibility Sale of Cembrit emissions. Code of Supplier Conduct. The document, act as a moral compass. Our ethical way of In our 2014 CO2 accounting, Cembrit is rewhich is intended to be initiated in the conducting business has significantly influHost Countries garded as a discontinued business because Host Countries beginning of 2015 details our expectations enced our brand, inspiring trust and creating it has recently been sold. Unlike the rest from our suppliers, it also includes an positive influence amongst our customers, of the FLSmidth Group, Cembrit produces Environmental numbers expectation that their employees and our business partners and those who live building materials based on fibercement, ­subcontractors uphold a responsible and work in our local communities. which has a substantial energy usage and ­business conduct. By having a defined therefore, also greater emissions. In future 60 * FACTS reporting on our CO2 emissions, the sale * * FACTS 50 will result in an overall lower emissions number and more accurately represent the 40 In 2012, FLSmidth sent out Scope 1 emissions emanating self-assessment questionnaires entire FLSmidth Group. 30 from sources that are owned to strategic suppliers * or controlled by FLSmidth * 20 * Reduced emissions Health, Safety and Environment In total 520 suppliers If we look at the numbers for the rest of the 10 Scope 2 emissions emanating from electricity, heating and goes hand in hand with Quality, which is The assessed themselves FLSmidth Group, there has been a reduction 0 cooling, or steam purchased by FLSmidth why we expect our suppliers to have based on the ten UN Global Compact Principles in CO2 emissions in Scopes 1, 2 and 3. 2011 2012 2013 2014 high standards. It brings value to our customers. Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 3 Scope 3 emissions emanating from aircraft travel Geoff Cotton *Including emissions from Cembrit FLSmidth Quality Specialist 36 37 FLSmidth: CSR REPORT 2014 FLSmidth Product Cases Sustainable technologies Case: Dust emissions reduced Case: Electrostatic precipitain Thailand by converting tors reduce dust emissions to Electrostatic precipitator to below 1 mg/Nm3 Supplier fabric filter technology FLSmidth helped the Swedish pelletizing Emissions regulations is becoming even plant Luossavaara-Kiirunavaara AB (LKAB) more stringent and in order to meet the reduce dust emissions substantially to ensure limits with existing installations, the Thung compliance with current and future emission Song plant of Siam Cement Company, regulations. FLSmidth decided to convert the existing e­ lectrostatic precipitator (ESP). The conversion into a For over 25 years, FLSmidth has been helpFLSmidth RetroClean™ fabric filter was ing LKAB (Luossavaara-Kiirunavaara AB), completed by reusing existing parts to the to maintain and improve their air pollution greatest extent possible. The filter footprint control equipment in Kiruna, Malmberget Customer was not extended leading to a reduced and Svappavaara, located in the very north environmental impact. of Sweden. For LKAB to increase production, local authorities demanded dust emissions Siam Cement Company was looking for to be reduced significantly. During a planned equipment that was effective and with low stop, FLSmidth provided three new elecHost Countries maintenance requirements. The RetroClean trostatic precipitators (ESPs) including dust filter was a good solution as it uses fewer transport system, ID fans, and complete duct mechanical parts which reduces the maintesystem designed to p ­ rovide maximum effinance costs. To guarantee increased operaciency and reliable dust emission control. tional efficiency and prolonged filter lifetime the solution is equipped with the advanced “We are very satisfied with FLSmidth’s FACTS gas distribution system developed by performance during both the design and FLSmidth as well as the Smart Pulse Conconstruction phases. It was very impressive LKAB (Luossavaaratroller®. All of this ensures constant prohow their team was able to successfully Kiirunavaara AB) Plant emissions measured during duction securing low dust emissions. With complete installation within the planned performance testing: the new RetroCleanTM filter the Thung Song 10-day tie-in and how flexible they were in UDD Exhaust: 0.3 mg/Nm3 plant will be in compliance with emissions cooperating with our partners and supDDD Exhaust: 0.7 mg/Nm3 TPH Exhaust: 0.3 mg/Nm3 regulation now as well as in future when pliers,” says Joakim Winsa, Planning and local emissions regulations are expected to Design Manager, LKAB. ­become even more strict. The optimized design makes it possible for LKAB to reduce dust emissions to an extremely low level to ensure compliance with emission regulations now and in the future. It is FLSmidth’s vision to be our customers’ preferred full-service provider of sustainable minerals and cement technologies. FLSmidth vision 38 39 FLSmidth: CSR REPORT 2014 FLSmidth Product Cases Case: Entering new industry with Case: New fabric filter type reduces Case: Dry tailings stacking Another application of the DTMS is for mixing the specialtechnologies to remove SO2 and dust emissions and environmental impact Wet tailings are a waste product of the mining process and ised soil types required to cap mine pits after environmental emissions For two of Lafarge’s cement plants, Medgidia, Romania often pose severe environmental challenges. In an effort to reclamation. New air pollution control equipment from FLSmidth will and Rezina, Moldova, FLSmidth supplied the pioneering reduce potential environmental issues, a number of concepts reduce 90% of the SO2 emissions from the largest supplier fabric filter type, DuoClean® DC2. Lafarge appreciated are being evaluated by the industry to dewater existing Over the past two years, FLSmidth has been working with of a carbon black worldwide. Carbon black is mainly used ­as the newly developed DuoClean filter design delivering and new wet tailings. Amongst these is a method using various mining companies in arid locations, studying the applia filler material in tires and other rubber products and Carbon a dual-flow approach, using long filter bag technology, dewatered sludge combined with existing local material, cation of dry tailing stacking technologies for their operations. black production plants are widespread all over the world. compact design, and outstanding performance. With producing a mix that has adequate integral strength to At present, operations using concentrators with a capacity of Thai Carbon Black Public Co Ltd in Angthong, Thailand, an innovative modular design and octagonal shape the allow for dry stacked tailings. 100,000 tpd use in the order of 200,000 m3 of water per day has chosen to upgrade their boiler lines 5 and 6 with new DuoClean DC2 filter is a self-reinforcing structure and and can permanently lose up to 65,000 m3 per day through air pollution control equipment. The company is part of the offer cost-effective manufacturing, transportation and Currently, one of the primary interests in the Dual Truck their processes. Birla Carbon Group. on-site construction. This benefits cement plant customers Mobile Sizer (DTMS) is for an application where it will be but also the environment thanks to low weight and easy used to stop and reverse the growth in ‘wet’ tailing dams The application of the FLSmidth dry tailing stacking technolBased on the results of a technology study, FLSmidth was transportation. at oil sands sites, primarily located around Fort McMurogies in these applications can save 15-20 Mm3 water per identified as the preferred supplier and will supply the ray, Canada. Tailings dams are currently the method for annum. A significant water savings is particularly important FLS®-GSA for removal of 90% SO2, a FabriClean® fabric The state-of-the-art filter type is developed by FLSmidth at disposing of the processed waste (sand and sludge) in the if water sources are subject to climate impact or precarious filter for dust removal to below 20 mg/Nm3 and all necessary the largest R&D Centre in the industry. extraction of bitumen. These tailings dams are growing at water availability, which is often the case. plant equipment such as duct system, fans, silos and matean alarming rate, already visible from space, with a setrial handling. The equipment will be a complete add-on “FLSmidth is a well-known supplier to the cement industry. tling time for the tailings measured in thousands of years. environmental upgrade package to the existing plant. By When we selected the DuoClean DC2 filter we knew that identifying regional supply sources for many of the materials, we could expect high quality, a high performing installation The DTMS is ideally designed to assist in the process as a we have reduced impacts of transportation. and professional service during the project execution,” states front-end mobile dump and blending station. There is no Mr. Emmanuel Ollivier, Project Manager, Lafarge Cement other machine currently available that can interface with the For many years, the FLSmidth owned company AFT (AdTechnical Center, Lyon (FR). ultra-class 400 ton haul trucks in the same way and with vanced Filtration Technologies) has supplied AFT™ filter adequate mobility. By using the DTMS as part of the equipbags for dust removal to the carbon black industry. This new For Medgidia and Rezina the DuoClean DC2 filters have ment set, negative ecological impacts can be reversed and order is the first of its kind for FLSmidth in this industry. proven to be effective. Emissions are reduced to an exthe area recovered to pristine forest. tremely low level down to 1.2 mg/Nm3 which means that The gas suspension absorber, FLS®-GSA will go on-line at the the Lafarge cement plants meet legislation now and far end of 2015. into the future. 40 41 FLSmidth: CSR REPORT 2014 FLSmidth Product Cases Case: Maximizing use of Case: Quarry management with a alternative fuels significant impact The introduction of alternative fuels in pyro processes NLSupervision, part of the FLSmidth Group, has a quarry poses significant challenges in keeping a stable process management contract in Sumbe, Angola as well as contract FLSmidth Global ­Product Manager Joju Jacob, who works for operating the cement plant. When the quarry contract with the ECS/ProcessExpert® system, explains the challenge. was entered in 2013, less than 10% of the excavated raw He states, “When using fossil fuels, the pyro process has a materials were utilised in the production. After having the very steady energy source because the material has a stable contract for a year, NLSupervision, was able to increase the burnability. When introducing the use of alternative fuels, percentage to more than 98%. At handover time, more than the burnability of the material varies a lot. Imagine shredded 600,000 tons of material was discarded in the disposal area waste materials from a household, essentially a mix of differ2 km from the quarry face in the opposite direction from the ent products that each burn differently, making the process crusher. About 300,000 tons of material was used for roads difficult to control. When the burnability drops, the operaand crusher platform and less than 100,000 tons of material tor frequently has to supply the process with coal or gas in was considered suitable for production. order to keep the temperature steady. This is a challenge for the operator and where the expert system comes into Working in close cooperation with the production team, the picture.” NLSupervision made the mining plan in order to optimise the utilisation of the raw materials. Through careful quarry Expert systems have been used in the cement systems since planning and management, more than 98% of the raw the 1980s, when FLSmidth was pioneering the technology materials excavated are now considered suitable for cement for cement kilns. The expert systems ensures maximum utiproduction. This is a significant reduction in consumption of lisation of alternative fuels, by carefully controlling the pyro natural resources. process. The main objective of any expert system is similar to the autopilot on a commercial plane; to automate the The small fraction of raw material that is not utilised in the operation of plant processes to optimise efficiency, maxicement production is stockpiled less than 500 m from the mize throughput and ensure that the plant runs optimally. quarry face to allow it to be used for landscaping in the With very complex algorithms the ECS/ProcessExpert system rehabilitation work. constantly ensures the optimal fuel mix, making it easier to use alternative fuels. Imagine shredded waste materials from a household, essentially a mix of different products that each burn differently, making the process difficult to control. Joju Jacob FLSmidth Global ­Product Manager 42 43
