PROGRESS OF UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLES NOVEMBER 2015 CONTENTS P3 MESSAGE FROM THE MANAGING DIRECTOR P5 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT HUMAN RIGHTS P6 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT LABOUR STANDARDS P9 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT ENVIRONMENT PRINCIPLES P14 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLES 2CONTENTS MESSAGE FROM THE PRESIDENT 1 On November 15th 2012, Intercruises Shoreside & Port Services became a member of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) and committed to integrating the principles of UNGC within the business’ strategy and day to day operations. We are pleased to conﬁrm our continued support for the Global Compact and renew our ongoing commitment to the initiative and its principles with respect to human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. Our mission and values reﬂect this and help us achieve our goals, aiming to reconcile economic growth with environmental and social responsibility. This document, our second annual Communication on Progress, describes Intercruises efforts to achieve this. Intercruises is making a clear statement of this commitment with stakeholders and the general public using our primary channels of communication. During this year, Intercruises has successfully achieved the re-certiﬁcation of the Quality Management System (ISO 9001:2008) and the Environmental Management System (ISO 14001:2004) for Barcelona Operations and Head Ofﬁce. Besides, following the principles of continual improvement we have widened our Quality Management System accreditation scope by adding the Passenger Service operating in Palma de Mallorca to our 9001:2008 certiﬁcations. As part of our key initiatives, Intercruises has strengthen its commitment towards Sustainability Strategy and all projects related to that. We will continue to work towards furthering our commitment to the Global Compact principles by reviewing our progress and challenging ourselves to constantly improve. Intercruises is proud to be a member of the UNGC and we look forward to developing our business in line with the UNGC principles. Yours sincerely, Mark Robinson President Intercruises Shoreside & Port Services 3MESSAGE FROM THE MANAGING DIRECTOR UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT HUMAN ANTIRIGHTS LABOUR ENVIRONMENT CORRUPTION The second Intercruises Communication on Progress will focus on the achievements in the four areas of the Global Compact Principles: HUMAN RIGHTS, LABOUR, ENVIRONMENT and ANTICORRUPTION. 4UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT HUMAN RIGHTS HUMAN RIGHTS • Principle 1: Business should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and • Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Intercruises as part of TUI Group professes its regards and observance of human rights, respecting the personal dignity, the private sphere and the personal rights of each individual. Not tolerating any kind of discrimination on the basis of nationality, gender, race, skin, colour, disability, origin, religion, ideology, age or sexuality, neither child labour and degrading working conditions. 4 1 27 10 65 67 51 103 88 16-30 31-45 46-60 61-75 75< 16-30 31-45 46-60 61-75 Fig1: Age and gender of Intercruises employees As a global enterprise, Intercruises aims to establish as diverse and international work-force as possible. Different nationalities are represented in top management roles. We will keep encouraging this diversity at other management levels, too. Fig2: Intercruises empoyees nationalities 5HUMAN RIGHTS HUMAN RIGHTS HUMAN RIGHTS In regards to Human Rights, Intercruises acknowledge practices in order to promote justice and equity across our the group Code of Conduct Policy, supporting this code global community and protect vulnerable societies. by providing any necessary information available, amongst others, in the intranet website. Depending on Likewise, suppliers shall comply with the Suppliers Code the country, there are different reporting procedures in of Conduct. This code of conduct sets out the minimum place to address any kind of discrimination case, whether standards expected from each supplier when working on contacting management responsible or using other ways of our behalf. Suppliers are expected to uphold our principles communication. If any discrimination case arise that cannot by adopting accessible clear policies and procedures to be solved with immediate line management or Human respect human rights and child protection. Resources representative, employees are able to report it using the employee confidential hotline, a reporting Overall, with this report, we support the United Nations channel (by phone or online) to help employees state any Global Compact. Our daily business is based on the ten concern without revealing their identity to the people they principles of the global compact. work with. Compliance professionals will assess any report and investigate them as necessary. The fulfilment of the commitments arising from these codes and principles allow us to create shared values with Apart from promoting the code of counduct, we endeavour our stakeholders and act together in countries which we to engage our stakeholders on issues around responsible operate. 5HUMAN RIGHTS LABOUR STANDARDS LABOUR • Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; • Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; • Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and • Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Labour and human rights actions go hand in hand. Based on national law, employees have the right to a Intercruises is in line with the labour principles and the fixed yearly paid holiday, which is in compliant with legal national and international regulations. requirements. As well, employees are entitled to pay sick leave. In regards to the 3rd principle of the United Nations Global Compact, trade union membership, collective In addition to salary, depending on the country, additional labour negotiations and representation of members by benefits such as discounts or other offers on specific trade unions is not hindered at Intercruises. The unionisation products or services are provided, including the profit is free and workers’ representatives can be company’s sharing schemes such as the retribution per objective within employees joined to a union or a group of independent the PDU tool. employees. The PDU (Personal Development Update) tool helps keep Intercruises is compliant with the sector collective labour employees on track with their objectives. The PDU is the condition negation structure that applies in each country, business appraisal performance review that is used to depending on national law for the Travel Agencies sector. evaluate professional performance and development. This helps employees and managers set yearly objectives and All employees have a written and fair employment contract, define how those will be achieved, while reviewing them including labour conditions and description of duties, regularly. The PDU principal include: except of those contracts of less than seven days duration. The organizational chart is always available and constantly Defining objectives and determins what support may be updated. needed to achieve them Performance feedback Employees are free to enter employment and can leave Bonus their position when they choose without penalty in Succession planning accordance with contract and subject to a notice period. Career progression Salary The company pays employees at least a living wage which Personal and professional development is equal to or above the legal minimume stablished by the government of each destination. Travel agency employees Depending on the financial and personal objective results are evaluated according to professional level, based on measured in the PDU, permanent employees are entitled to the criteria of responsibility and range of skills. Overtime retribution per objective. is given back as lieu, unless specific conditions related to overtime have been agreed by the employee and written into their signed contract of employment. 6LABOUR STANDARDS LABOUR STANDARDS LABOUR The career plan of Intercruises employees is not only Employee development is possible vertically and drawn by the PDU. The company ensures at all levels horizontally. Employees can obtain more knowledge, skills of responsibility, the staff competencies and personal and competence as well as work in a more complex, development of its employees by equally offering resources systematic, strategic and interdependent way. and opportunities for personal development through regular training, workshops and education. The learning Employees are evaluated on their individual attributes, skills and development plan for Intercruises employees is and capabilities, rather than on stereotypes, prejudice built according to the specific training needs identified. or assumptions. Intercruises as an employer has the Workshops, operational and other training, are organized primary obligation to make sure the workplace is free from during the year as required. discrimination and harassment, human rights are respected and provide equal opportunities. Training includes various topics including: leadership development trainings, project management, marketing and “Every person” has the right to equal treatment in selling skills, communication and influencing, interpersonal employment without discrimination because of race, skills, personal effectiveness, planning skills, finance, ancestry, place of origin, colour, ethnic origin, citizenship, languages, human resources amongst others. These are creed, sex, sexual orientation, disability, age, marital carried out during working hours. status, family status and record of offences. All staff members have the opportunity to receive periodic The right to “equal treatment with respect to employment” guidance and training regarding their role, rights and protects individuals in all aspects of employment, including responsibilities while trained and educated on the nature of applying for a job, recruitment, training, transfers, the work, for example, by job shadowing. promotions, terms of apprenticeship, dismissals, layoffs and terminations. When necessary, employees are trained regarding health and safety issues educating them on preventive The group Code of Conduct, mentioned in Human Rights behavior. This includes: fire and relevant natural disasters section, lays down minimum standards and contains (earthquake, floods) and other health and safety training. suggestions of how all employees can work together. This year, a first aid training program for Barcelona office The code is intended to help in overcoming ethical and employees was organized. legal challenges in day-to-day work life and to provide an orientation for dealing with conflict situations. The group “Code of conduct on close personal relationships” is also intended to ensure that any situation that could give rise to a conflict of interest between close personal relationships is managed appropriately in the interest of both the business and employees are protected. We work towards attracting, recruiting, promoting and keeping the best employees, maximizing the potential and performance of those, while minimizing employee frustration, stress and turnover, increasing employee loyalty. We are building and maintaining our reputation of being a fair employer. Intercruises job offers and interviews are non-discriminatory and HR staff trained on non-discriminatory recruiting practices. Traineeships and internships are offered to students in order to give them the opportunity to gain experience in the business while obtains university credits. 7LABOUR STANDARDS LABOUR STANDARDS LABOUR According to law, Intercruises where technically and example, to support family obligations or temporary leave. financially viable, will have access for people with special Additional holidays to the statutory paid leave per annum needs in office buildings and other permises. through salary reductions where operationally possible. Due to the international nature of Intercruises business, Employee satisfaction is regularly measured and employees can opt-in for international job positions. The suggestions are taken into account through internal surveys. contract of employees is diverse and international. Intercruises is committed to the group Child Protection The company has an effective procedure where employees Policy, where we state our commitment to condemn the may raise grievances. Appropriate and timely follow up exploitation of children, a fundamental abuse of child’s procedures are in place. This is the case of the hotline, human rights. We commit to maintains high standards of explained in more detail in the Anti-Corruption section. professional conduct. In some destinations, a “Tickets” system for doubts or For that reason, we work towards the principles of “The complaints to RRHH is in place, where employees can Code of Conduct for the Protection of Children from Sexual contact directly with questions regarding benefits and Exploitation in Travel and Tourism” (TheCode), an industrysalary, amongst other topics. In destinations where the driven initiative with a mission to provide awareness, tools ticketing system is not available, employees are able to and supports to the tourism industry in order to prevent the contact their Human Resources representative directly. sexual exploitation of children. A guide for non-sexist language was also created in order The induction of a new employee has a positive impact to ensure communications are non-discriminatory. Currently on business results. We have the “Welcome Pack”, an only available in Spanish. induction tool with summarised information about all policies and procedures for new employees in order to Salaries are reviewed constantly to ensure fairness, intentionally transmit the company vision, values and culture transparency and consistency across the organization. to the newcomers. Employees may change some of their compensation and benefits of working for the flexibility to be able to reconcile work, family and personal life. The family of our employees have become a new stakeholder of the company. Although business is not directly responsible, businesses contribute significantly to this unit. Part of Intercruises culture is to ensure a work-life balance with some initiatives in place in order to promote the wellbeing of its workers. Some of the measures include: Schemes for pregnancy, maternity and paternity leave for all employees depending on National law. Flexible working hours or part-time employment. For 8LABOUR STANDARDS ENVIRONMENTAL PRINCIPLES ENVIRONMENT • Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; • Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and • Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Since the ISO 14001:2004 certification achievement in April 2012, Intercruises has an Environmental Management System in place in Barcelona office, where the head office is located. This serves as a standard and guide for the rest of the offices worldwide. This year, Intercruises obtained its re-certification. 9ENVIRONMENT ENVIRONMENTAL PRINCIPLES ENVIRONMENT As a result of the recertification, sustainability actions have taken place, locally or globally. These actions resulted in CO2 emission reduction. Some of these activities are sum up below: EMPLOYEE AWARENESS Raised awareness on sustainability topics of Intercruises employees worldwide. Posters for water, energy and paper consumption were hung in Barcelona office, in order to teach on recycling and waste management best practices. Regular sustainability updates are given on the internal blog called Interjournal, which is available to all Intercruises employees. Apart from these awareness actions, others are in place and explain in detail throughout the environmental princpiples section. CONSUMPTIONS MEASUREMENT We measure consumption in order to constantly find ways to reduce our consumptions and continue to support our overall reduction objectives. Electricity: the electricity consumption has been reduced in 2,5%. (graph1) TOTAL ENERGY CONSUMPTION (KwH) graph1 72573 73000 72500 72000 71500 71000 70772 70500 70000 AUGUST 2013 AUGUST 2014 JULY 2014 JULY 2015 10ENVIRONMENT ENVIRONMENTAL PRINCIPLES ENVIRONMENT Paper: the purchase of paper has been notably reduced. From August 2013 to July 2015, there has been 35% reduction of paper purchased year over year change. (graph2) TOTAL REAMS OF PAPER PURCHASED graph2 989 1050 900 750 639 600 450 300 150 AUGUST 2013 AUGUST 2014 JULY 2014 JULY 2015 The reduction is attributed to the proactive approach of employees to reduce printing and the successful completion of the actions carried out for this purpose. 97% of the total paper purchased during both periods consist of 100% recycled paper with other environmental certifications such as FSC paper and Blaue Engel. SOLIDARY RECYCLING Intercruises Barcelona joined two different solidary programs to improve Intercruises’ awareness and engage with social and environmental causes. Caps and writing materials are recycled and donated to different causes including “Terracyle” and “Tapones para una vida” to help children in need. To learn more about these inciatives access: https://www.terracycle.com/es-US/ http://www.fundacionseur.org/recoger-tapones/ 11ENVIRONMENT ENVIRONMENTAL PRINCIPLES ENVIRONMENT SUSTAINABLE MARKETING CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR) An example is that all visit cards are printed with FSC We work towards Corporate Social Responsibility Certified Paper. among Intercruises employees by participating and collaborating with different associations. Apart DOCUMENTARY MANAGEMENT from monetary donations, we also organize in-kind contributions. An internal integrated excel-based tool has been developed for Port Agent business and accounting. Some community projects that benefit directly Besides a PDF Software has been installed that communities in Intercruises destinations are: combines documents digitally, reducing the amount of documents printed. The environmental benefits of LOCAL DONATIONS: these tools include: • Food donation for Barcelona community in • Auto-filling of invoices/voucher and automatic collaboration with “El Banc dels Aliments” export to PDF. • Contributing to Spanish children health inside • Exported invoices/voucher and supplier invoices the program “Tapones para una nueva vida” in can be combined digitally through PDF Software no collaboration with “Fundación Seur” printing, scanning. • “Adopting” through Antarctic Humpback Whale • Visa documents and passports can be combined Catalogue thus a donation will contribute towards the and sorted digitally through the PDF Software no research necessary for understanding the life history of printing, scanning. these endangered mammals. • Operation lists such as hotel list are produced and saved digitally. Thereby accounting avoids printing twice as it is done directly inside the tool. LOCAL TEAM ACTIVITIES: CODE OF CONDUCT • Soup Kitchen is a volunteer initiative to benefit homeless people in Malaysia. The team in Malaysia Besides the Supplier Code of Conduct, the group spent the day helping at the Kechara Centre Soup employee Code of Conduct also has a section for Kitchen where they prepared 110 goodie bags filled Sustainable Development and the environment. For with basic essentials such as toothbrush, toothpaste, example: soap, face towels and snacks. “All employees practice their environmental responsibility by behaving in accordance with the rules and by following suggestions for protecting the environment.” 12ENVIRONMENT ENVIRONMENTAL PRINCIPLES ENVIRONMENT • Supporting Feeding South Florida Organization IT FACILITIES – North American employees’ team day activity was spent volunteering at an organization that Improvement in IT technology for internal and donates food collected from local grocery stores and external communication was put in place to reduce restaurants to those less fortunate. The team inspected business travel (i.e.: WebEx, Skype, Lync etc.). and sorted the food received to make sure it was safe When possible, computers and other technology are for consumption (Image 1). purchased with energy star certification. • Earth Day Beach Clean-up at Port Canaveral’s Jetty Park. Intercruises shares documents through an online management tool called “Intercloud”. This tool has many benefits including flexibility and document control while environmentally friendly reducing our business carbon emission footprint. Board members have access to a mobile device application called “Boardpad” where they can store the information revised during the board meetings in order to avoid printing. Image1: Intercruises team supporting Feeding South Florida Organization E-MAIL FOOTER Following Intercruises commitment to sustainability, a standard e-mail signature footer was created for all employees to use. This raised the awareness of printing e-mails or other unnecessary documents. Reduce, Reuse, Recycle. Think before you print. 13ENVIRONMENT ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLES ANTICORRUPTION • Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Intercruises continues to apply rigorously the group establishing the Hotline for employees (as mentioned Anti-Corruption program in order to adopt the policies in Human Rights and Labour sections). The Employee and implement the anti-bribery awareness campaign Hotline is designed for use when the usual lines of and the comprehensive Anti-bribery and Antireporting through line managers or human resources corruption training programme (the ABC programme). representatives are deemed innappropiate by the The policies are communicated through different employee. channels, including the new employees Welcome Pack. All employees are encouraged to report any concerns regarding misconduct, wrong doing, or illegality to An Anti-corruption clause is included in all contracts the company’s attention as soon as possible to allow with clients and suppliers. Intercruises takes a zero them to be fully reviewed, investigated if necessary tolerance approach to bribery and corruption and and rectified. The employee Hotline also enables expects clients and suppliers to comply with the Policy employees to raise issues in confidence related to for Prevention of Bribery and Corruption, the Supplier misconduct, such as theft, fraud, bribery, money Code of Conduct and any other applicable local and laundering and similar matters. The advantages of the international anti-corruption legislation. Employee Hotline are: The company is committed to open lines of • It is an automated service, available globally from communication with employees, to transparency either a telephone on a toll-free number or online and high ethical standards. A reporting mechanism using a web form. launched during this year follows the commitment • It is available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. of the company to open lines of communication by • Any information given is treated in strict confidence. 14ANTI-CORRUPTION
