United Nations Federal Credit Union Court Square Place 24-01 44th Road Long Island City, NY 11101-4605 T: + 1 347-686-6614 F: + 1 347-686-6440 bpredmore@unfcu.com email@unfcu.com www.unfcu.org William F. Predmore 2015 UN Global Compact Communication on Progress Statement of Continued Support By: William Predmore, President/CEO, United Nations Federal Credit Union Having achieved “Active Status” designation from the UN Global Compact for the fourth consecutive year in 2014, United Nations Federal Credit Union (UNFCU) further deepened its commitment to the UN Global Compact principles in the last 12 months. Our internal policies fostered a diverse workforce, wellness and career development. We also began work on a 5-year sustainability roadmap to review the environmental, social and economic impacts within our organization. This effectively follows the Global Reporting Initiative standard. Highlighting the year, in support of UN organizations and NGOs, the UNFCU Board of Directors established the UNFCU Foundation. The purpose of this 501c (3) organization is to fund projects that reduce poverty through education and healthcare, especially among women and children in developing countries and New York’s inner city. The criteria used to select the 2015 causes supported by the Foundation specifically aligned with the UN Millennium Development Goals. The resulting projects range from social reintegration of persistent fistula patients in Nigeria and livelihoods training for women impacted by conflict in Afghanistan, to literacy training for Ethiopian refugees and girls in remote areas in Tanzania. Throughout the last 12 months, efforts to conduct our business as a good citizen of the world earned UNFCU awards and recognition. We are in the process of obtaining the prestigious U.S. Green Building Council’s Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) certification for our new branch in Washington, D.C. UNFCU is now collaborating with Greening the Blue, a network of UN agencies, funds and programmes globally, to champion best environmental practices across the UN system. In response to UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon’s call for all organizations to further their work on a Climate Neutral Strategy, our staff volunteer Green Team initiative became the UNFCU Global Sustainability Program. Through our Compliance, Ethics and Risk Management policies, UNFCU continued to advance our fraud prevention capabilities, protecting members’ assets. UNFCU consistently achieves the highest ratings for safety and soundness from the National Credit Union Administration (NCUA), its regulator. UNFCU’s capital asset ratio increased 5 basis points over the prior year. Additionally, we exceeded USD 4 billion in assets for the first time. Details of our solid financial performance indicate the strength and stability of UNFCU. Beyond our fiduciary responsibility, UNFCU partnered with the UN community on more than 20 cause-related projects in the last 12 months. We once again sponsored Youth Model United Nations, Youth Human Rights training and United Nations Foundation’s Girl Up Leadership Summit in Washington, D.C. Having welcomed UNA-USA, the largest UN advocacy organization in the United States, into our field of membership earlier in 2014, we introduced a UNA-USA credit card with a portion of revenues going to support its humanitarian aims. On the labor front, 61% of the managers at UNFCU are female, reflecting support in the workplace for the Women’s Empowerment Principles to which we are a signatory. Our 2015 Annual Election to the Board of Directors maintained strong female representation, and our corporate governance continues to be guided by two-thirds women on our board and a wide variety of ethnicities. Thirtyseven languages are spoken at UNFCU – an all-time high. As the UN prepares to adopt the post-2015 Sustainable Development Agenda at the 70th Session of the General Assembly, UNFCU firmly recommits its support of the UN Global Compact. William Predmore President/CEO United Nations Federal Credit Union
