2016 UN GLOBAL COMPACT communication on progress. 1 TABLE OF CONTENTS Letter of Support . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5 Vision . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7 Human Rights. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9 Labor. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11 Environment. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13 Anti-Corruption. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15 Who We Are . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16-17 Team Principles . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19 Global Strategies. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21 What We Do . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23-27 Partners . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 29 Key Strategies . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 31 Miyamoto Relief. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33 Media . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 35 3 LETTER OF SUPPORT LETTER OF SUPPORT Reviewing the UN Global Compact Ten Principles, I believe that each of these ideals is lived daily in our firm, where our mission statement is to “make the world a better, safer place.” Human rights, labor, the environment, and anti-corruption are all global issues that need to be addressed—not only on paper, but through action. As an earthquake and structural engineer who has traveled to dozens of natural-disaster-stricken countries around the globe, including to Nepal this year, I have seen firsthand the vital importance of upholding these principles—and the dangers of ignoring them. I have witnessed the destruction of human life due to structural failures that could easily have been prevented. With these Ten Principles in mind, Miyamoto International undertakes initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility and encourages the development of environmentally friendly technologies. The quality of human life around the globe can be improved by engineering safe communities and using the best technologies available to improve our built environments. Miyamoto International fully supports the Ten Principles of the Global Compact and would like to join in your efforts to not only increase awareness of these vital global challenges, but implement change through the projects that we pursue and the partnerships that we build. Miyamoto will gladly share the Ten Principles with our sphere of influence, including partners, clients, and professional colleagues. We are committed to making the Global Compact and its principles part of our strategy, culture, and daily operations, as well as engaging in collaborative partnerships and projects that will advance the broader goals of the United Nations, particularly the Millennium Development Goals in eradicating poverty. We are willing to make a declaration statement to our stakeholders and the general public of our commitment to join forces with the UN to advance and implement these principles and goals. In closing, we are pleased to fully support the Ten Principles, and look forward to partnering with you to make the world a better, safer place. Sincerely, H. Kit Miyamoto, Ph.D.,S.E. President and CEO Miyamoto International Earthquake + Structural Engineers 5 MISSION make the world a better, safer place. MISSION MISSION | VISION STATEMENT Make the world a better, safer place. VISION Be the undisputed global leader in earthquake strategies, high-performance engineering and project management. Take bold actions to fortify business, enrich communities and safeguard humanity. Positively impact society as a 1,000-person firm with business units strategically positioned around the globe. 7 we work to provide safety and shelter to people when they need it most. 2015 Nepal Earthquake HUMAN RIGHTS HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Miyamoto International is a global earthquake and structural engineering firm that provides critical services to help sustain industries and communities around the world. Our passion to make the world a better, safer place has taken us to the epicenters of some of history’s largest natural disasters. From these disasters, we have gained valuable knowledge, which we bring to all our projects. Principle 2: Businesses should ensure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Miyamoto International respects and upholds the protection of international human rights as set out in the United Nations’ Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the International Labor Organization’s Fundamental Conventions and the Global Compact. Miyamoto will make this a criterion in the selection and management of its suppliers and contractors. 9 2015 Nepal Earthquake LABOR LABOR Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Miyamoto International recognizes and respects employees right to freely and voluntarily establish and join organizations of their own choice, while recognizing the right of the Employer’s freedom of expression that does not unlawfully interfere with that right. Miyamoto supports Employers that adopt non-discriminatory policies that support the employee’s right of association and to lawfully elect to be governed by collective bargaining, as set out in the United Nations’ Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the International Labor Organization’s Fundamental Conventions, and the Global Compact. Miyamoto will strive to make this a criterion in the selection and management of its suppliers and contractors. Principle 4: Businesses should uphold the elimination of forced or compulsory Labor. Miyamoto International respects and supports the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory Labor as set out in the United Nations’ Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the International Labor Organization’s Fundamental Conventions, and the Global Compact. Miyamoto will strive to make this a criterion in the selection and management of its suppliers and contractors. Principle 5: Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child Labor. Miyamoto International respects and supports the effective abolition of child Labor as set out in the United Nations’ Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the International Labor Organization’s Fundamental Conventions and the Global Compact. Miyamoto will strive to make this a criterion in the selection and management of its suppliers and contractors. Principle 6: Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Miyamoto International is an equal opportunity employer and does not discriminate against otherwise qualified applicants on the basis of race, color, creed, religion, ancestry, age, sex, marital status, sexual preference, national origin, disability or handicap, or veteran status. 11 ENVIRONMENTAL POLICY ENVIRONMENTAL POLICY Miyamoto International is committed to preserving our environment. Our company mission statement to make the world a better means that we engineer sustainable built environments around the globe, making this practice an integral part of our daily business operations. In particular, it is our policy to uphold health, safety, and environmental integrity to our business methods at all times. We will do so by adhering to the following principles: PRINCIPLE 7: BUSINESSES SHOULD SUPPORT A PRECAUTIONARY APPROACH TO ENVIRONMENTAL CHALLENGES. We will comply with all applicable laws and regulations. We will implement programs and procedures to assure compliance. Compliance with health, safety and environmental standards will be a key factor in program implementation, training, and reaching our goals to achieve sustainable built environments around the world. PRINCIPLE 8: BUSINESSES SHOULD UNDERTAKE INITIATIVES TO PROMOTE GREATER ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY We will seek opportunities beyond regulatory compliance requirements to reduce risk to human health and the environment. We will employ management systems and procedures, such as disaster mitigation, to mitigate danger from structural failures that poses a threat? We will respond to emergency disasters, and seek out opportunities to rebuild sustainable communities in the event of a disaster. We will looks for ways to minimize risk to our own employees and to the communities in which we operate by seeking out and employing the latest sustainable technologies and engineering methods available. PRINCIPLE 9: BUSINESSES SHOULD ENCOURAGE THE DEVELOPMENT AND DIFFUSION OF ENVIRONMENTALLY FRIENDLY TECHNOLOGIES. We will leverage existing and cutting-edge technologies to provide alternative, innovative, solutions to structural challenges. We will partner with building systems experts on research and design to test and develop new innovations in our industry. We will commit to seeking out seismic technologies and implementing them into our projects, creating safe, more disaster resilient communities, minimizing our global footprint, and maintaining environmental integrity. GREEN BUILDING We will continue to use our LEED project expertise to design durable and functional buildings using renewable material resources. We will offer sustainable options and specify the resource reuse content for a variety of available structural materials. We will make full use of our extensive experience in evaluating and rehabilitating existing structures, maximizing the reuse of existing building shells. We will further our research and development for green products, LEED certified, and net-zero structures. COMMUNICATION We will communicate our policy commitments to our sphere of influence. We will measure and review our progress on an annual basis, and continue to seek out opportunities to improve our principles and our environmental performance. 13 our vision is to use the best practices in the world to provide effective financial management. ANTI-CORRUPTION ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle 10: Businesses should work against all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery. Miyamoto International prides itself on its commitment to make the world a better, safer place. This commitment builds on the values of our company and our employees. We pride ourselves on our integrity and we do not permit the misuse of entrusted authority for private gain or any other forms of corruption in any setting or on any level based on foreign jurisdiction laws and regulations or those governed by the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. Miyamoto International has a zero-tolerance policy and reserves the right to investigate, document and pursue any necessary legal action for corrupt acts carried out by any of its trustees, officers, staff, associates or stakeholders. Miyamoto International strives to continually improve its financial and administrative systems, policies, and procedures to ensure transparency, accountability and compliance with applicable laws, rules, and regulations. 15 WHO WE ARE For us, an exemplary leader is someone who helps others achieve their personal best by finding common ground between group and individual goals. We believe that a group performs best when its goals bring out the best from each member. Our staff members’ primary responsibility is to serve our clients. Our leaders serve the staff and make everyone’s job easier. Each leader works to position staff members to maximize their strengths. We give our staff the freedom to do their best work and enhance our process as a collaborative organization. Visit us online to view our complete list of leadership profiles. Chief Executive Officer H. Kit Miyamoto, PhD, SE, is the CEO and a structural engineer for Miyamoto International, Global Risk Miyamoto and a nonprofit organization, Miyamoto Global Disaster Relief; he also is a California Seismic Safety Commissioner. Under his leadership, more than 15,000 projects have been successfully completed worldwide. Known for innovative engineering, Kit Miyamoto has worked on many challenging projects that received industry recognition, including the Structural Engineers Association of California (SEAOC) Excellence in Structural Engineering Award. View Full Bio leadership matters. People Development WHO WE ARE As Principal, People Development (Human Resources), Lana Anest focuses on Miyamoto International’s biggest asset, its people. Her mission is to attract, develop and retain outstanding talent for Miyamoto, providing them with the knowledge and work environment to perform at their best. With over 20 years of experience in multiple industries both domestically and internationally, Lana leads Miyamoto’s overall human resource strategy. View Full Bio Finance Sam is a leader versed in addressing the challenges of ‘globalizing’ firms. He is a CPA and holds a B.A. in both business accounting and economics from California State, Fullerton. As a member of the California Board of Accountancy and an executive board member of the Association for Corporate Growth, Sam is recognized by his industry peers as a financial visionary. View Full Bio Communications & Marketing As Communications and Marketing Director, Diana Erwin oversees all corporate communications, branding, marketing and messaging. Her background is in journalism, filmmaking, public relations and marketing; numerous awards include a Pulitzer Prize. At Miyamoto, her mission is to create goodwill and understanding of our mission by telling our unique story in engaging, passionate ways. These stories capture the essence of the visionary people working at and with Miyamoto, all of them striving to make the world a better, safer place. View Full Bio 17 TEAM PRINCIPLES TEAM PRINCIPLES Collaborative teamwork at all times. Prompt, honest and direct communication with a passion for the Miyamoto mission is expected from each staff member. We focus on and maximize each staff member’s strengths. We do not have rigid job descriptions or positions because each of us is unique and each of us has something special to contribute to our mission. We work as an integrated team of specialists. No unnecessary management layers or titles. We eliminate any unnecessary bureaucratic paperwork. Leaders exist to serve others. Leaders serve the staff and make everyone’s job easier by removing roadblocks and building an effective team environment. All staff members are expected to enhance what we do. We consider opinions from all levels of staff at any location and rigorous debate is expected. We continually learn and grow as leaders, team members and professionals. Each of us is responsible for his or her own professional growth plan Corporate is not an executive group, it is a leadership group. The Corporate team to serve and provide leadership so that staff and offices can be successful. Open-source communication structure. 19 2015 Metro Manila GLOBAL STRATEGIES GLOBAL STRATEGIES Through a shared mission, vision, processes projects and staff, we inspire strategic collaboration among all Miyamoto offices and businesses. As a globally renowned earthquake + structural engineering and project management company we continue to focus on achieving our mission: Make the World a Better, safer place. Establish a global practice: We provide a standard process and monitor for business functions: High-Performance Engineering, Production, People Development, Communication, Finance, and IT. Deliver optimal quality through production standards and QA processes: We establish the quality of the Miyamoto brand, regardless of where projects are executed. Engineering processes and high-performance engineering tools are shared globally through providing standards and working through projects together. We share talent globally to utilize the best available resources, optimize the cost and schedule to deliver projects. People Development is critical: We build a global culture, apply best human resources practices, coordinate recruiting, provide legal protection and foster professional growth opportunities for our staff. Communicate the Miyamoto brand and provide unified and localized communication and marketing tools: The Communications team provides marketing tools and systems and monitors the development for each location to promote our brand. Provide financial system and benchmarks: The Finance team sets up the system and monitors for accrual and cash basis financial statements and projections for all locations, as well as standard financial metrics to use as benchmarks for assessing our performance. Use state-of-the-art IT system: We provide a strategic IT plan to each location to ensure the use of common tools to facilitate multi-office projects and enhance communications. 21 2014 Haiti School Construction/Repair 15 UNICEF SCHOOLS COMPLETED 34 SCHOOLS IN HAITI AS PROGRESS CONTINUES TO BUILD 19 MORE SCHOOLS In 2013, Miyamoto Haiti began engineering and building 34 schools throughout Haiti in partnership with United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF) and the Haitian government through the Fonds d’Assistance Economique et Sociale (FAES) program. The school sites are mainly in remote areas of Haiti, outside of the capital. Today 15 schools are completed while the remaining 19 are in various stages of construction. These projects are being built to international standards for safety and quality. It has been a twoyear journey to complete all 34 schools, but with the future of thousands of school children at risk now benefitting from these safer schools, the journey will be well worth it. “There should be no difference in the safety standards for American children and for Haitian children. We need to ensure that all children are completely safe in their schools,” said Dr. Kit, Miyamoto, CEO of Miyamoto International. The process has been challenging. Many sites have no access roads. This has not stopped construction efforts in the slightest. These schools will continue to build the capacity of Haitian engineers, contractors and masons. Miyamoto Haiti is training teams of supervisors on quality control, planning and construction management to keep this mission-critical project on track. “Our biggest challenge in Haiti is ensuring that construction is properly done,” said Guilaine Victor, Miyamoto International Haiti program manager. “Our goal isn’t just to build safe schools, but to raise the quality of construction throughout Haiti.” Funding for the 15 completed UNICEF schools has been fulfilled through the Belgian Government. Funding for the 19 FAES schools will come from the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) and Haitian government. “We are committed to Haiti’s development,” said Dr. Miyamoto. “That is why we are investing in and expanding our operations here. Our trained Haitian engineers, masons and contractors can execute international-standard construction.” 23 NEPAL EARTHQUAKE PROMPTS IMPACTING COMMUNITIES NEW RECONSTRUCTION METHODS On April 25, 2015, a 7.8-magnitude earthquake struck Nepal just northeast of Kathmandu. Only a few short weeks later a second 7.3-magnitude aftershock created even more damage as Nepal struggled to provide basic needs for the more than 450,000 people displaced by the quake. More than 8,900 people lost their lives and more than 23,000 were injured. Miyamoto International sent a team to Nepal within days of the earthquake and is working with the Nepalese government, corporations, non-profits and private individuals to provide damage assessments, reconstruction plans and seismic safety evaluations. One of the biggest challenges in Nepal is the geographic location of remote villages. These villages were the hardest hit because many of the structures were built with unreinforced masonry, wood and stacked stones with limited concrete or mud to hold them together. With this type of construction, most structures did not stand a chance against the 7.8-magnitude earthquake and later large aftershocks. Miyamoto is working with local providers and the Nepalese government to develop a plan to educate and facilitate construction of a new type of home. The home must be structurally sound and be built by communities without the need for extensive concrete or complicated machinery. It must be environmentally friendly and utilize local materials available to any village or town. Key features include the use of a metal framework, rebar and specific methods of construction that will minimize loss of life while reusing many of the building materials left by the earthquake. This new type of construction, and the technical training that will accompany it, will empower the people of Nepal to build back a better, stronger, more seismically resilient Nepal. “They are determined to stay...When I go to the villages they tell me, ‘You know what? I don’t need your money or food, but tell me how to do this. How to build back better.’” Dr. H. Kit Miyamoto 25 A NEW STANDARD FOR SETTING THE STANDARD EARTHQUAKE-READY BUILDINGS The Burbank Airport is nearing completion of their Emergency Operations Center in the Los Angeles Basin, the Regional Intermodal Transportation Center (RITC). Upon completion, it will be one of the most prepared to withstand a massive earthquake, such as the 6.7-magnitude quake that hit Northridge 20 years ago. The Burbank Airport Authority has set extraordinarily high goals for the seismic performance of the RITC in its secondary role as a key emergency-response facility. The building utilizes stateof-the-art seismic resilient technology designed to keep the building standing even after multiple quakes and tremors, which often happens when a major earthquake occurs. “In the event of a major earthquake, the airport will be the center of emergency response for Southern California,” said Dan Feger, the airport’s executive director. The facility’s design stands out for its commitment to seismic performance, said Dr. Kit Miyamoto of Miyamoto International, the high-performance structural engineering firm on the project. “This is why we exist,” Miyamoto said. “We want to make the world a better, safer place. We want to save lives. Our mission is so critical and the Burbank Airport is one of the great examples of it.” Miyamoto International used a “beyond code” approach to the transportation hub’s design rather than a “code-minimum” approach. The design incorporates more than 100 triplependulum bearing isolators that allow the structure to stay standing and remain operational, even after a very large earthquake. Officials from FEMA, CALIMA, and the Los Angeles County Sheriff and City Fire departments toured the facility and understand its value as an emergency operations base. Its location is critical because, after an earthquake, airports are a lifeline for supplies, medical aid and volunteers. “What I would say to someone who’s contemplating performance-based design” over just doing the bare minimum of what the building code requires, Feger said, is “‘Go for it.’ This is a project of the future.” 27 we are working to create a network of global offices and companies that extensively support each other. 2010 Haiti Earthquake GROWING PARTNERSHIPS GROWING PARTNERSHIPS Our professional staff and consultants have responded to more than 100 earthquake and hurricane events over the past 30 years. We provide crucial post disaster activities, including structural safety assessment, damage assessment, damage data collection, retrieval of critical documents, debris management, human capacity building, establishment of assessment technical platforms and training programs, as well as development of reconstruction strategies. As a global leader in engineering, partnering with the World Bank, United Nations, USAID, and various NGOs, we continually respond to disasters to help restore safety. SELECTED GOVERNMENTS • United States Government • Government of Haiti • Government of Romania • Government of Thailand (Royal Thai Government) • Government of Japan • Government of Nepal • Republic of Turkey • State of California GOVERNMENT ORGANIZATIONS • Ministry of Public Works, Transportation and Communications (MTPTC) • Ministry of Transport, Construction and Tourism • United States Agency for International Development (USAID) • United Nations Office for Project Services (UNOPS) • United Nations AIDS Program (UNAIDS) • United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP) • United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA) • United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF) • United Nations Development Program (UNDP) NON-GOVERNMENT ORGANIZATIONS • Adoration Christian Centre • Aide Medicale Internationale • Caterpillar Foundation • Caritas Autriche • Clinton Bush Haiti Fund • Development Alternatives, Inc. (DAI) • European Commission Humanitarian Aid & Civil Protection (ECHO) • European Union • Japan Emergency Non-Governmental Organization (JEN) • Pan American Development Foundation (PADF) • World Bank 29 2012 Italy Earthquake KEY STRATEGIES KEY STRATEGIES Decentralize, coordinate, and constantly evolve the company. Open new offices where disaster mitigation and reconstruction activities are required by partnering with local firms or individuals. Our presence makes the community a better, safer place. Focus on high-performance engineering. Deliver unique value that justifies the highest profitability, allowing us to continue our research into advanced technical solutions. Commit to building a powerful brand. A brand that is known worldwide, through high-quality staff; innovative public relations; and consistent application of the Miyamoto name, graphic image, and approach. Be progressive, innovative, and creative in the way that we lead our staff, work with strategic partners, and manage our company. Be one company. We use and share resources, our workforce, and expertise from office locations for optimal quality and costeffectiveness. Be committed to having fun, and being a positive influence on the world and the communities we serve. 31 save lives from disaster. GLOBAL DISASTER RELIEF “I know that repairing one school may not be a priority for large international organizations, but it is also true that the act of strengthening one school will create public awareness of the desperate condition of Haitian schools and promotes further action. Miyamoto Relief provides the strategic leadership necessary to save children’s lives.” –H. Kit Miyamoto, President After successfully completing the Lycée National de Cité Soleil school strengthening, which provided 1,500 students with a safer school, the non-profit Miyamoto Global Disaster Relief turned its attention to raising awareness and support for the Petion-Ville High School project in Haiti. The three-story structure rests atop columns, causing a potential structural risk to the building known as a “soft story.” In the case of an earthquake, the building will be at great risk of collapsing, putting the lives of thousands of students at risk as more than 4,000 students attend the school in shifts. Miyamoto Global Disaster Relief has made it its mission to protect schools such as this one. To strengthen the school and save lives, Miyamoto Relief will use seismic fluid viscous dampers as reinforcement to the school’s existing structure. Fluid viscous dampers are an advanced earthquake engineering technology used in high seismic risk areas to prevent building damage and ensure life safety. PARTNERS To make a donation please visit our website: miyamotorelief.org DONATE NOW 33 2015 Nepal Earthquake MEDIA MEDIA NY Times: Nepal Earthquake Early Report Anderson Cooper of CNN Reports the Haiti With Andy Revkin Earthquake Featuring Miyamoto International CNN News: Another deadly quake ThaiPBS 9,000 building Damage shakes Nepal assessment in Chiang Rai New Zealand News 3 Reports On CNN News Covers Kit Miyamoto’s Report Miyamoto’s Evaluation of CBD on Structural Damage to Sendai After the Demolition 2011 Earthquake ABOUT Visit the below links to learn more about Miyamoto International, our culture, our work and our people. YouTube • Awards • In the News • Press Releases 35 miyamotointernational.com © Copyright 2016 Miyamoto International Sacramento | San Francisco Bay Area | San Jose | Los Angeles | Orange County | San Diego Haiti | Liberia | Italy | Turkey | Nepal | Bangladesh | India | Thailand | Japan | New Zealand
