Change, with You 2014 Sustainability Report China Mobile Communications Corporation Chairman’s Statement 01 China Mobile Communications Corporation 2014 Sustainability Report Mr. XI Guohua Committee Secretary & Chairman, China Mobile Communications Corporation Change, with You Chairman’s Statement On 18 December 2013, China Mobile officially launched the fourth with our value chain partners to develop new information services for the generation (4G) mobile communication service along with a brand new image rural market and a richer variety of applications such as mobile health, signified by our new service brand ”and!”. transportation, mobile payment, and smart home. We have been sharing our growth with communities through our continuous efforts to provide In 2014, we created a record by bringing more than 720,000 4G base inclusive telecommunication services, to support poverty alleviation efforts stations into operation and serving over 90 million 4G customers. Within in Xizang, Xinjiang and Qinghai, and to bridge both development gaps and this year, we set global industry precedents in network scale, construction digital divides. For ten consecutive years, we have been devoted to China speed and capital investment with the completion of the largest 4G network Mobile Blue Dream Education Aid Plan, supporting the training of principals in terms of both scale and coverage as well as the offering of international of rural primary and secondary schools from central and western China and roaming service in multiple countries and regions. We have been leading the the building of China Mobile Libraries and Multimedia Classrooms. We also development of 4G devices, providing more affordable tariff package choices, provided free congenital heart disease screening for children in poverty areas introducing featured 4G services for individual, family and corporate customers, and assistance to those who needed treatment. We have been growing in and bringing our customers the experience of more convenient digital access. harmony with the environment by constantly optimising energy management, These efforts contributed to the acceleration of the development of the TDimproving network energy efficiency, promoting green service, and advocating LTE 4G industry, the establishment of a complete ICT industrial system in China for the development of green new economy. With all these efforts, our with independently innovated technologies, and the leap-forward development sustainability practices were well recognised and China Mobile was listed in of China’s chip and device industries. We are pleased to witness that ”Mobile the Dow Jones Sustainability Indices (DJSI) for the seventh consecutive year. Changes Life” has embarked on a fast track in the 4G era as high-speed 4G network is making mobile Internet applications increasingly popular and deeply Following our philosophy of substainable development and our strategic integrated into society, business, and personal lives. vision of ”Mobile Changes Life”, we will adapt to the new normal state of economic development, seize new opportunities involved in the development We started the change by changing ourselves. Entering the 4G of mobile Internet, and continuously deepen our transformational era, we accelerated our transformation and development, sped up the development and innovation, so as to create sustainable values and achieve construction of smart pipeline, and innovated on mobile Internet services, inclusive growth hand-in-hand with our stakeholders. It is our belief that there applications and business models as a response to the decline of traditional are changes happening everywhere, and ”Mobile Changes Life” is becoming telecommunication businesses. We proactively promoted organisational so close to reach. transformation to encourage innovation and entrepreneurship from both our organisation and our employees, which became a strong motivation power to our transformation. Meanwhile, we actively implemented more stringent corporate governance to ensure healthy development, and improved network quality and security to protect our customers from unlawful activities and ensure confident consumption of our products and services. We are also changing together with our stakeholders. We have been growing together with our employees by deepening labour reform, applying a versatile incentive mechanism, and actively addressing their concerns. We have also been growing together with the industry by collaborating March 2015 Contents 01 Chairman’s Statement 36 Sustainable Values 38 Innovation and Transformation 03 About China Mobile 40 Information and Wellbeing 45 Green and Future 04 About this Report 50 Sustainability Performance Summary 05 Sustainability Strategy and Management 57 Stakeholder Commentary 08 Feature: Here Comes 4G 58 Report Rating 10 Responsible Business 12 Strict Corporate Governance 60 Feedback 14 Reliable Network 16 Trustworthy Consumption 61 Report Disclosure Indexes 20 Inclusive Growth 22 Growing Together with Employees 25 Win-win Development with Industry 28 Sharing with Community About China Mobile 03 Company Profile Sustainability Commitment China Mobile Communications Corporation (”China China Mobile Communications Corporation 2014 Sustainability Report By upholding our core value of ”Responsibility Makes Perfection” and insisting on our Mobile”, ”the Group” or ”we” for short) was established on corporate responsibility value of ”With perfect sincerity and integrity, we will strive to fulfill April 20, 2000. With registered capital of 300 billion yuan, our triple-side responsibilities: our economic responsibility, our social responsibility and our assets exceeding 1 trillion yuan, number of base stations environmental responsibility”, we focus on achieving economic, social and environmental exceeding 2.2 million and number of customers exceeding sustainability and strike a balance between ourselves and our stakeholders. 800 million, China Mobile is the largest mobile operator in the world by network scale and subscriber base. We are an official member of the UN Global Compact, recognizing and striving to comply China Mobile wholly owns China Mobile (Hong Kong) with its 10 universally accepted principles. As one of the first group of Chinese companies Group Limited. China Mobile Limited (the ”Listed Company” being selected as Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Organizational Stakeholders, we participate in for short) , which is under China Mobile (Hong Kong) Group global sustainability report standards researches and formulations, and join G4 Pioneer Program Limited, has set up wholly owned subsidiaries in 31 provinces as the only participant from Mainland China. We were recognized as an outstanding enterprise (autonomous regions and municipalities directly under the in a CSR management improvement event held by the State-owned Assets Supervision and Central Government) and Hong Kong Special Administrative Administration Committee (SASAC). Region, and got listed in Hong Kong and New York stock exchanges. With mobile telephony, data, IP telephony and multimedia services as major lines of business, we also Honours and Recognitions have the right to operate Internet services and international • Received the highest ranking “A” in SASAC Central Enterprise Executives Performance communications access services. In recent years, through Review for ten consecutive years; advancing strategic transformation, promoting reform and innovation, as well as accelerating working pattern and • The Listed Company was included in the Dow Jones Sustainability Indices (DJSI) for the structure adjustment, we maintained favorable momentum seventh consecutive year. Also listed in the Hang Seng Corporate Sustainability Index and stable operation performance. In 2014, we built the Series for the fifth consecutive year; About China Mobile largest 4G network in the world, brought 720,000 4G base • Ranked 55th in the Fortune top 500, up from 71th last year; stations into operation, and obtained more than 90 million • The Listed Company ranked 28th in the Global 2000 Leading Companies by Forbes, 4G customers. For years, we stick to the ideologies that moving up from 29th last year; ”Quality is the lifeline of a communications company” and • The Listed Company ranked 25th in the Financial Times (FT) Global 500; ”Customers, Our Priority; Quality Service, Our Principle”, and continuously improve quality and services. As a result, • The China Mobile brand was named one of the BRANDZ™ Top 100 Most Powerful Brands we lead the industry in customer satisfaction and have the by Millward Brown and Financial Times for the ninth consecutive year, ranking 15th lowest complaint rate per million customers throughout the globally; whole industry for several years. • Ranked 2nd in China 300 CSR Development Index (2014) by Chinese Academy of Social Sciences, also ranked 1st of the telecommunication industry; • Received the 2014 Public Transparent Enterprise Model Award given by the Chinese Institute of Business Administration Social Responsibility Committee and Beijing Rongzhi Number of Employees Corporate Social Responsibility Research Institute. 274,347 Number of Customers 807 million About this Report 04 This report is the ninth Sustainability Report about China Mobile Communications Corporation’s economic, social and environmental performance related to sustainability for the reporting period from 1 January to 31 December 2014. China Mobile Communications Corporation 2014 Sustainability Report Version This report is written in both Chinese and English and published both online and in print. This report can be viewed or downloaded at www.10086.cn/aboutus/csr/report_new. Furthermore, China Mobile Limited (the Listed Company) has also disclosed sustainable development performance under the framework of the China Mobile Communications Corporation report. You can visit www.chinamobileltd.com to download or view both Chinese and English reports. Scan the QR code for Reporting Reference more information This report was prepared in accordance with common sustainability reporting guidelines and developed based on the characteristics of both our industry and the Company. Our 2014 report refers to the following guidelines: ● G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines issued by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI); ● United Nations Global Compact Ten Principles; ● ISO 26000 issued by the International Organisation for Standardisation; ● Guideline for Environmental, Social and Governance Reporting issued by The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited; About this Report ● Chinese Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Report Preparation Guide – Telecommunication Service Sector (CASS-CSR 3.0) issued by the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences. Content Selection In accordance with the G4 reporting principles of stakeholder engagement, sustainability context, materiality and completeness, we performed the “Materiality Analysis” to identify the material issues and their boundaries (please refer to page 7 in this report). Report Scope Unless otherwise stated, all cases and data disclosed in this report are collected from China Mobile Communications Corporation and its subsidiaries (for more information regarding to our subsidiaries, please refer to our annual report, which can be viewed or downloaded at www.10086.cn/aboutus/annual/index.htm). Data Collection and Disclosure Data and information contained in the 2014 report were collected primarily through: ● China Mobile’s internal data collection system and statistics reports; ● Quarterly provincial CSR best practice reports; ● China Mobile 2014 Best CSR Practices Selection; ● Quantitative and qualitative questionnaires developed based on the reporting framework. Currency Unless otherwise specified, all monetary figures shown in this report are expressed in Renminbi (yuan). Report Assurance In 2014, we engaged Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Certified Public Accountants LLP to provide an independent assurance report. For more information, please refer to page 57 to 59 in ”China Mobile Limited 2014 Sustainability Report”. We also disclosed the audited key performance indicators in the Group report. The data collection process and calculation method for the same indicator disclosed in the Listed Company report are identical. In addition, we has invited the CSR Research Center of Economics Division of Chinese Academy of Social Sciences to make third-party professional rating on this report, for more information on Rating Report, please refer to page 58 to 59 in this report. Sustainability Strategy and Management 05 Sustainability Strategy and Management China Mobile is committed to fulfilling corporate social responsibilities (CSR) by closely cooperating China Mobile Communications Corporation 2014 Sustainability Report with our stakeholders to integrate our economic, social and environmental responsibilities into our strategy and operation, to manage our own impacts effectively, to maximise shared values for our stakeholders, Responsible Business and to achieve economic, social and environmental sustainability together. ● Focusing on corporate governance In 2014, the Company stressed on three key sustainability practice clusters, namely “Responsible and anti-corruption Business”, “Inclusive Growth” and “Sustainable Values”. We have been improving the processes and ● Improving network quality and efficiency of our sustainability management on the foundation of a sustainability organisational structure ensuring customer confidence that involves top management, headquarters departments and all subsidiaries, and a strategic sustainability management system with four management modules focusing on strategy, execution, performance and communication management. Inclusive Growth ● Protecting workplace rights and supporting employee career development Set sustainability philosophy and vision ● Pursuing win-win industry CSR Strategy Develop sustainability strategy and work plans Responsible cooperation and partnership for Management responsibility Sustainability training Operation ● Building stronger communities and CSR Execution promoting a harmonious society Sustainability issue benchmarking Management Culture Sustainability information collection & monitoring Organisation Sustainable Values Integrate sustainability into performance management System CSR Performance Process Sustainability Strategy and Management Management Sustainability capability assessment ● Optimising business layout Best CSR Practices Selection Sustainable and accelerating innovation development Development CSR Communication Sustainability reporting & communication ● Offering life-changing information Management Stakeholder engagement applications ● Promoting industry upgrade with information services ● Ensuring green operation to build ecological civilisation Closed-loop Benchmarking and Management of DJSI Stakeholder Engagement and Participating in Standard Setting In 2014, China Mobile used DJSI as a benchmark In 2014, the Company organised or participated in over 50 stakeholder communication tool for global sustainability standards and best practice. events. We became a global pioneer to adopt the G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines With the closed-loop management process of “benchmarkissued by GRI for our eighth sustainability report, which was recognised with a five-star rating feedback-improve”, we identified gaps in our sustainability by the CSR Research Centre of Chinese Academy of Social Sciences (CASS) and the“2014 management and continuously improved our management Golden Bee CSR Reports Award – Evergreen Award”. We organised our annual Best CSR and performance regarding key issue areas accordingly. Practices Selection event for the seventh consecutive year to promote best sustainability In 2014, China Mobile was listed in the DJSI Emerging cases among the industry. We partnered with the CSR Research Centre of CASS to coMarkets Index and scored higher than the previous develop the China CSR Reporting Guideline for Telecommunication Service Sector. We also year. Among all 23 issue areas, we received full score in actively supported the development and distribution of Chinese version of the G4 guidelines Corporate Citizenship and Philanthropy and Impact of in China. We became the only G4 pioneer programme participant from mainland China, and Telecommunication Services. our Community Care case was demonstrated in the GRI Knowledge Share Project Portfolio. Our annual sustainability training Our internal CSR information Our seventh Best CSR Practices and promotion programmes 575 pieces, collection reached Selection event attracted over reached 216,038 personand released 173 pieces by CSR 1,960,000 viewings online times of audience website in the whole year. 260,000 and received over votes in total 06 Stakeholder Engagement Stakeholders Key Issues1 Engagement Approaches Thorough communication is the cornerstone China Mobile Communications Corporation 2014 Sustainability Report Customers Privacy Protection 1. Customer Day for China Mobile to comprehensively understand Product and Service Quality 2. 10086 Hotline our social impacts and fulfil our social responsibility. Consumption Transparency 3. Weibo and WeChat In 2014, we actively communicated with our six Electromagnetic Fields (EMF) Communication main stakeholder groups, including customers, Safety 4. Online and Mobile Customer employees, shareholders and investors, government Environmental Impacts of Service Platform and regulators, value chain partners, and Products and Services 5. Customer Satisfaction Survey 6. Mobile App communities and the environment. Furthermore, 7. CEO Mailbox we used new media platforms as communication channels to interact with our stakeholders more Employees Workplace Health & Safety 1. Employee Representative effectively. At the end of 2014, we conducted Welcoming Workplace Conference a stakeholder survey to learn both internal and Employee Training & Career 2. Regular Training external stakeholders’ view on our sustainability Development 3. Performance Communication issues, their levels of concern and relevance Privacy Protection 4. MMS Magazine Mobile Weekly regarding these issues, and their feedback on our Product and Service Quality 5. Employee Recognition sustainability performance. 6. Employee Grievance Mechanism 7. CEO Mailbox Shareholders and Compliance 1. Annual Report, Interim Reports Investors Privacy Protection and Announcements Financial Performance 2. Shareholder Conferences CEO Mailbox Direct Communication with Product and Service Quality Corporate Governance and Risk Management 3. Investor Briefings Sustainability Strategy and Management Top Management Government and Information Society 1. Routine Reports In 2014, our CEO Mailbox received Regulators Privacy Protection 2. Specific Researches and a total of 2,378 emails from customers, Product and Service Quality Meetings partners and employees. They were handled Anti-corruption 3. Relevant Forums appropriately and all suggestions were 4. CEO Mailbox forwarded to relevant units for evaluation Value Chain Win-win Industry Development 1. Procurement Activities and research. Practical ones would be piloted Partners Product and Service Quality 2. Suppliers Website, Service Sites and then promoted accordingly. Employee Compliance and Hotline complaints were handled by dedicated Privacy Protection 3. Trainings and Assessments departments for investigation. Complaints and Anti-corruption 4. Forums and Meetings suggestions from customers and partners were 5. CEO Mailbox treated sincerely and responded and handled in a timely manner. Communities and Corporate Charity 1. Community Development Environment Product and Service Quality Activities Supply Chain Responsibility 2. Mass Media Environmental Impacts of 3. New Media (Weibo, WeChat) Products and Services 4. Charity Platform Public Participation and Industry 5. CEO Mailbox Development Note: 1. Key issues refer to the conclusion from the stakeholder survey for the materiality analysis. Please see page 7 of this report. Embracing the New Media Platforms In 2014, China Mobile actively embraced new media platforms as an effective communication channel. We carefully managed our Weibo and WeChat accounts, by posting selected topics based on major events, innovating communication methods, voicing our views, responding to public concerns as well as enhancing interaction among viewers. • Our five official Weibo platforms had over 10 million followers in total, and our official WeChat account had over 1.1 million followers, ranking high among central enterprises in terms of numbers of followers, follower activities, and number of forwards and readings. • Our official Weibo handled over 57,000 customer complaints and our 10086 Weibo handled over 111,000 customer complaints and enquiries. Among the complaints received, 20% resulted in customer service job orders while the rest 80% were handled directly online. • We were granted awards such as the Top Ten Most Influential New Media Account of Chinese Enterprises, the Top Ten Best New Media Cases of Chinese Enterprises, and the No. 1 Most Influential New Media Account for Central Enterprises. 07 Materiality Analysis To further enhance the relevance and responsiveness of this report, we applied materiality analysis over our sustainability issues, covering both their impacts China Mobile Communications Corporation 2014 Sustainability Report on our stakeholders and their importance to China Mobile’s development. The analysis resulted in a number of high-relevance issues to be covered in this report. Identification International Standard Analysis Best Practice Benchmarking Media and Public Focuses We identified 18 sustainability issues related to China Mobile based 01 on benchmarking international standards and industry best practices Studied standards such as GRI G4 and DJSI to select Benchmarked on sustainability disclosure of industry peers Reviewed government policies and sustainability related and our communication with our issues reflecting global to identify industry specific media coverage to identify stakeholders in the past year. sustainability trends. issues. issues of concerns of society. Evaluation Customers We conducted an online 5.9% 812 stakeholders 8.6% Employees stakeholder survey and invited responded, 26.9% 9.0% Shareholders and stakeholders from different groups to 02 Investors prioritise the 18 issues based on each 2.8% Government and Sustainability Strategy and Management while internal and external Regulators issue’s importance to them. stakeholders accounted for 46.8% Value Chain Partners approximately 50% each. Communities and the Environment Report Report Prioritisation Product and Service Quality Contents Issues Boundary High Privacy Protection Compliance We prioritised the 18 issues Strict Materiality Compliance Anti-Corruption based on their importance to China Corporate Internal Issues Consumption Transparency Corporate Governance and 03 Governance Mobile and constructed an issue Risk Management Anti-Corruption Reliable Product and Service Quality materiality matrix with results from Internal Network EMF Safety the stakeholder survey, and then Product and Service Quality Trustworthy identified the material issues to be Welcoming Workplace Consumption Privacy Protection Internal Employee Training and Career Consumption Transparency covered by this report. Development Welcoming Workplace Growing Employee Training and Information Society Together Career Development Internal Workplace Health and Safety with Workplace Health and Employees EMF Safety Safety Moderate Environmental Impacts of Public Participation and Materiality Products and Services Win-win Industry Development Internal Development Win-win Industry High Issues Public Participation and Industry and with Development Development External 2 Industry Supply Chain Responsibility 1 Energy Consumption and Waste Management Proposal Sharing Information Society Corporate Governance and Risk with Internal 8 4 3 Corporate Charity Community Importance to Stakeholders 11 9 Management Innovation 10 6 5 Corporate Charity and Financial Performance Internal 15 13 7 18 12 Transformation 17 Information Financial Performance and Information Society Internal Low Wellbeing 14 Win-win Industry Development 16 Materiality Environmental Impacts of Supply Chain Responsibility Green Issues Products and Services Management and Internal Energy Consumption and Future Waste Disposal Importance to China Mobile High 08 Feature: Here Comes China Mobile Communications Corporation 2014 Sustainability Report Network Customer Device 720,000 As of the end of 2014, our 4G customers had In 2014, 4G (TD-LTE) handset sales reached over reached 4G base stations were in operation in 2014 90.06 million 100 million and equivalent to the number of all 3G base Lowest price of accounting for stations built in its first 40% The number of TD-LTE device models TD-LTE handsets seven years, of 2G accounted for had been lowered 75% base stations built in to 400 yuan. of its first 17 years. 4G base stations built globally in the year of our overall models Feature: Here Comes 4G The time we used to reach We achieved the milestone breakthrough of 50 enabling Our 4G network has been deployed in forms of continuous coverage for almost all cities and million 4G customers 8-core 64-bit chips counties as well as data hotspot coverage in for devices priced within the 1,000 yuan range, developed rural towns and villages. Over is equivalent to 1/3 of the time used to attract the which could also support TDD/FDD network same number of 3G customers, and 1/5 for 2G integration and global roaming. 1 billion population customers. are covered. We are offering international 4G roaming service in 71 countries and regions. 52 TD-LTE commercial networks had been deployed in 30 countries. In addition, 83 were in construction. TD-LTE customers reached 100 million globally. The Global TD-LTE Initiative (GTI) was supported by 116 operators 09 China Mobile Communications Corporation 2014 Sustainability Report Service Business Tariff We provided customers with For individual customers, we launched monthly data Apart from “no new number, HD video, lossless music, traffic packages, we introduced no re-registration and high speed games, quarterly and semi-annual speedy SIM swap”. online audio books and many The service was available anywhere, anytime, and other featured applications. We had introduced data traffic packages, under any circumstances. over 10,000 hours of HD videos and 150,000 priced from 30 yuan to 280 yuan for customers with different needs. Customers could also share copies of lossless music. We also established a 4G the data traffic package across multiple devices. Experience Centre at our Mobile Market, giving We sent real-time data usage SMS reminders to customers a free trial period to experience our 4G customers as their data usage approaches services conveniently at a lower entry barrier. 80% 20% Reduced 4G voice service tariff by Feature: Here Comes 4G 50% 90% 100% over 20% For corporate customers, we launched a number of industry solutions based on 4G technology, remote monitoring such as and removed roaming charge and long-distance of the package limit. For 4G customers, we and live video broadcast. charge for domestic customers. offered a ceiling lock on both data traffic and 4G-based applications were also developed and tariff to avoid unexpected high charges. launched as industry information solutions, such smart transportation, as for Tariff of entry-level 4G package was lowered. mobile health, urban management, 88 yuan smart tourism, and environmental protection. 58 yuan Data tariff was lowered by as much as 50%, while tariff of data usage beyond package was lowered by as much as 70%. Responsible Business 10 China Mobile Communications Corporation 2014 Sustainability Report Zhaotong, Yunnan, is famous for top-quality Sichuan efforts, they did not rest or sleep but continued their work pepper. From July to August, the mountains there would be together with the second and third repair teams. filled with the unique aroma of fresh Sichuan pepper, and farmers would know that the pepper was ripe and ready After the roads were cleared, the first China Mobile Responsible Business for harvest. However, at 16:30 on 3 August 2014, a sudden emergency support vehicle finally arrived at the town. earthquake turned their happy mood into devastation. After gobbling down a bowl of instant noodle prepared by colleague, he took several bottles of drinking water with him 6 August, 70 hours after the earthquake, a China and left for the villages with their equipment: “Communication Mobile Yunnan Company Ludian Branch employee, He Linze, has resumed in the town but some of the surrounding villages quickly ate a few biscuits and continued working on setting are still cut off. We get to go there and do our job to bring up the communication equipment they just brought from the communication back on for the entire Longtoushan area.” Ludian county, “I can’t remember how many times I have shuttled between Ludian and Longtoushan.” Within 20 minutes of the earthquake, China Mobile dispatched the first emergency support team and the first He was in Longtoushan town, Ludian county, in the emergency support vehicle to the epicentre. Within 30 epicentre of this 6.5-magnitude earthquake. The earthquake minutes, we joined forces with government disaster relief disrupted the communication system in Longtoushan efforts and activated the No Service Suspension policy. Within town and nearby areas, including 105 pieces of base six hours, we started offering ten emergency services such station equipment, 1,250 square-metres of communication as emergency account activation, on-site service tents, free equipment room area, and 2,176 kilometres of optical battery charge, etc., and succeeded in restoring the wireless cable. He Linze was in Ludian county when the earthquake phone connection rate from 42.6% to 95.8%. happened. Still feeling dizzy from the quake, he received a call from China Mobile Ludian Branch Emergency Command China Mobile set 17 on-site service tents and 10086 Office requesting his immediate report to the office. He service hotline to offer 24-hour service. During the disaster rushed to the office and made a hasty call home to check the relief operation, we cumulatively sent more than 69 million safety of his family members. messages of disaster alert, weather forecast, service broadcast, etc., activated the No Service Suspension policy and real-time At 16:50, He Linze reported to the office along with tariff waiver for more than 450,000 customers, offered free five colleagues. They set off to the old town of Longtoushan, family calls to more than 6,100 customers and free phone the epicentre, with a generator and a few filled fuel tanks. battery charging service to nearly 30,000 customers, received Their mission was to repair the damaged communication 380 requests for help to locate people’s family members and cables and base stations. Just a few minutes later, they helped 107 people find their loved ones. realised that all roads were damaged and no vehicle could pass through the county. They had to abandon their vehicle Upon completion of the disaster emergency support and travel by foot, with equipment on their backs. mission, He Linze and his colleagues kept on contributing to It was not until 20:00 that He Linze and his team post-disaster reconstruction and disaster preparedness in the reached the old town. They located the damaged base region by restoring the communication capability back to the station and cables and started their repair work. As conditions before the disaster. telecommunication network was crucial to disaster relief 11 China Mobile Communications Corporation 2014 Sustainability Report During the disaster emergency support We activated the No Service We offered free family calls to mission, we had cumulatively sent Suspension policy and offered more than 6,100 customers more than 69 million messages of tariff waivers for more than disaster alert, weather forecast, service 450,000 customers broadcast, etc. “ It is a primary responsibility of ours to ensure reliable communication after disasters hit. From emergency support crew on-site to business support staff in back office, everyone at China Mobile, including myself, is doing our best to help people in disaster impacted areas feel better. ” Responsible Business He Linze, Employee, China Mobile Yunnan Company Ludian Branch This emergency support mission in Ludian was a snapshot of how we fulfilled our operation responsibility in 2014. As a telecommunication operator, China Mobile believes that the only way towards sustainability is to operate our business, network and service responsibly. In 2014, we applied strict requirements for corporate governance, ensured compliance for all operations, and showed zero-tolerance to corruption; we strove to make our network more reliable so customers could access quality and safe connection from anywhere at any time; and we were committed to improving customer confidence and protecting customers from telecommunication frauds and harmful information. 12 Strict Corporate Governance Engagement China Mobile Communications Corporation 2014 Sustainability Report The Listed Operational Compliance Internal Controls: In 2014, we made substantial improvements Company maintained in our internal control system: close communication Board of Directors: In 2014, the board thoroughly followed with investors through SASAC requirements of board operation. Aimed at the Completed a company-wide internal control system target of to improve corporate governance efficiency that was highly integrated with business operations. a variety of channels, such as investment bank and balance , we reinforced policies and the system of board operation, enhanced the board's competence and Analysed the 2013 COSO framework to incorporate meetings, one-on-one requirements for service suppliers into our internal meetings, conference effectiveness, and promoted the compliance of the board. control system, elaborated fraud risks, and enhanced calls, etc., providing inIn 2014, the board convened five board meetings, reviewed 30 issues and approved 10 board resolutions. The special the balance between quality and access cost of time information regarding our business operation to committees convened nine meetings, reviewed 11 issues, information. investment community. In debriefed 10 reports and approved 9 special committee Piloted the transition from business tax to value2014, the Listed Company minutes. added tax and ensured compliance with internal participated in 17 investor conferences, hosted 246 control requirements after the implementation of Risk Management: In 2014, we formulated and issued routine investor meetings, value-added tax by adjusting business operation and China Mobile Management Approach for Risk Assessment on and met with 675 Major Projects, specifying the duties, scope and procedures, management models, optimising processes, and institutional investors and contents and methodologies for each department in revising internal control handbook and risk matrix. 861 individual investors. conducting risk assessment. We also researched on and Organised the integration of internal controls with IT wrote the risk assessment tools and models to provide system to ensure the integration of internal controls approaches and guidance. Pilot assessments were initiated into business processes. We also issued guidelines at each provincial subsidiary to provide better reference for for duties incompatible with internal controls to preventing decision-making risks. enhance the cooperation of each department with Responsible Business internal controls and audit. Internal Audit: The Company and its operating subsidiaries have set up internal audit departments to conduct independent audits on our business units. We have established an internal audit framework and carried out annual risk assessments. According to the results of the risk assessments, we made our internal audit work plans on an on-going and annual basis. With our systematic and standardised audit procedure and approach, we carried out independent and objective supervision and assessment and provided consultancy services regarding the appropriateness, compliance and effectiveness of business operations and internal controls, so as to help achieving better corporate governance, risk management and control processes. In 2014, our internal audit department enhanced its audit information system, expanding the depth and scope of audit work with the start-up of its computerassisted on-going audit. The Company and its subsidiaries continued enforcing audit accountability and carried out disciplinary actions against persons with major problems identified during the audit process. 13 Anti-corruption The Month of Anti-corruption Education Programme covered more than We studied the 2013-2017 Work Plan on Establishing 90 of our management staff and over 70 employees China Mobile Communications Corporation 2014 Sustainability Report and Improving an Anti-corruption System, and formulated % % detailed implementing opinion aimed at preventing and disciplining corruption incidents with better work style, 3,000 harsher punishment, more effective prevention, and stronger organisational leadership. We formulated and In 2014, we organised over anti-corruption training issued Guidelines on specifying the main responsibility of 460,000 conducting anti-corruption processes and Guidelines on specifying the supervision responsibility of conducting antisessions with participation of more than corruption processes. In April 2014, we conducted the Month of Antiperson-times Corruption Education programme to raise awareness over 561 anti-corruption issues with a variety of anti-corruption education, including lectures, seminars, visits to antiIn 2014, we received a total of corruption education bases, watching anti-corruption cases of whistle-blowing, 94.65 110 documentaries, and anti-corruption MMS classroom. These activities covered more than 90% of our management staff among which, were closed and and over 70% employees. % cases were closed during the first-round of investigation We launched the Window to Business Ethics webpage, and informed our employees of the requirements and progress of our anti-corruption efforts together with our other internal platforms such as China Mobile Information We have set up a designated mailbox, email (jubao@chinamobile.com), telephone hotline and China Mobile Disciplinary Information. In 2014, we (010-52616186) and fax to encourage oversight and whistle-blowing from our employees and Responsible Business organised over 3,000 anti-corruption training sessions with participation of more than 460,000 person-times. In 2014, the public. Whistle-blowers can also use the CEO mailbox to report on any fraud and violations. in order to make our inspection visits more effective, we enhanced the investigation and prevention of corruption We strictly protect the identity and interests of whistle blowers and carefully handle risks, established a database for inspection personnel, and and verify possible leads and solutions. In 2014, we received a total of 561 pieces of whistleorganised trainings and seminars on inspection work. We blowing information via hotline, email, face-to-face complaint and mail. Among them, 94.65% completed the inspections over six business units including were handled and closed, and 110 cases were closed during the first-round of investigation. our Device Company and Fujian Company to address business ethics and anti-corruption challenges. In Gansu, we organised employees to visit an anti-corruption exhibition 14 Reliable Network Key Figures of 2008-2014 Emergency Support Network Keeps You Connected China Mobile Communications Corporation 2014 Sustainability Report Investment In 2014, a number of disasters happened across China, including earthquakes of magnitude 6 or higher in Yutian in Total Investments over Number of Emergency Support 10 billion Xinjiang autonomous region, Yingjiang, Ludian and Jinggu Equipment Installed 1.069 million in Yunnan province, and Kangding in Sichuan province, Typhoon Rammasun and Typhoon Kalmaegi, and a number of yuan mudslides and heavy storms, etc. All these disasters required stronger disaster response from us. In 2014, we completed Number of Emergency Support 30,000 3,126 emergency support missions in total, and we were able Emergency Support Persons to detect abnormal telecommunication conditions within (person-times) 3.37 million five minutes of the occurrence of the disaster and resume communication in disaster areas promptly by activating Number of Emergency our emergency plans and dispatching emergency support personnel and vehicles within 30 minutes. Support Vehicles Deployed Emergency communication support demonstrated our capability to ensure communication for major events. 72,000 However, what matters to most people is network quality in where they live and work. We continued improving the Service coverage and network quality of our 2G and 3G network during the year. The successful connection rates of our 2G and 3G network improved by 0.48% and 0.42% respectively No Service Suspension (to ensure Free Family Location/Call Service over the 2013 numbers. emergency communication (to show humanitarian care) support for disaster impacted 6 Responsible Business Meanwhile, we maximised our efforts to rollout areas) and optimise our 4G network. Since its official launch in December 2013, our 4G network had been growing at a world-record speed and became the largest 4G network in 6 million person-times 13 million person-times million minutes the world just within a year. We had put in use 720,000 4G Tariff Rebate or Waiver (to help base stations in 2014, accounting for 40% of all 4G base disaster victims) Emergency Notice Messages (to 5 stations globally during the year. As of the end of 2014, send government alerts and relief our 4G network has been deployed in forms of continuous million customers information) coverage for almost all cities and counties as well as data hotspot coverage in developed rural towns and villages, offering download speed as fast as 26.83Mbps, 30 times faster than the 3G network, to more than one billion 350 million yuan 1.5 billion messages population living in these areas. 15 Network with Your Safety in Mind China Mobile Communications Corporation 2014 Sustainability Report “If you know more about the base stations around you, you would know that they won’t hurt you at all. Instead, they could only serve you. “ The word “radiation” triggers the feeling of suspicion and fear. People often became concerned after knowing there were mobile base stations around them. In Hangzhou city of Zhejiang province, residents of Wendingyuan responded strongly after they knew there was a China Mobile base station on their property, and asked for its removal. Negotiation went into a deadlock, so we had to switch off this base station. Consequently, the network quality significantly deteriorated. Some residents had to walk to the property entrance to get better connection in order to make phone calls. Some of them had wireless signal amplifiers installed inside their own apartments. Actually, the truth is the contrary of what the residents believed. A mobile phone would power up its transmission signal strength to maintain connection when it received weak signals, generating higher radiation compared with the radiation levels associated with normal signal strength. Removal of the base station did not serve their intended purpose. In order to help local residents to understand EMF, we sent them informational MMS messages and handed out 3,000 information booklets. We also hosted a number of EMF knowledge sharing sessions in the neighbourhood, using real-time testing experiments to demonstrate how EMF worked and its impact on human health. Gradually, our continuous efforts convinced the residents of Wendingyuan and the base station was in service again after several months. “Since the base station was switched off, the quality of phone calls became really bad. After seeing the experiments and testing results, now I know that the radiation is actually worse when signal is weak.” As local residents were convinced of this idea, the conflict between them and China Mobile was solved consequently. Responsible Business China Mobile believes that the best way to ● Launched a featured column on base station EMF communicate on base station EMF is transparency, openness knowledge at our official WeChat account, introducing and trust. We believe that as long as we apply strict EMF related knowledge to the public by demonstrating management to ensure EMF meet national safety standards, the on-site radiation test results and comparing the and communicate to local residents openly and honestly, it is readings at multiple locations such as near a base possible to cast away the distrust of EMF among people. station, inside a house or on a sidewalk. We developed the Electromagnetic Fields Management We also released the environmental impact assessment Methods and Assessment Approaches of Electromagnetic reports of all network construction projects to the public. Radiation of Base Stations with requirements higher than Assessment report for each project is posted online at our national standards to ensure that our base stations are provincial subsidiaries’ websites where the project was safe. In addition, we request our provincial subsidiaries to located for public inquiries and suggestions. contract qualified third-party organisations to assess the environmental impacts of our base stations. In 2014, we carried out a variety of awareness raising activities on EMF information: ● Invested 3 million yuan to develop the EMF Awareness Raising and Experience Tour Bus as an innovative way to communicate with the public; ● Piloted EMF monitoring systems in Shandong, Henan, Guangxi, and Gansu provinces, which display real-time base station EMF data publicly; 16 Trustworthy Consumption Engagement In 2014, we analysed Internet postings China Mobile Communications Corporation 2014 Sustainability Report Online: We communicated regarding our services from over 12,000 websites, with customers through our as well as 23 million customer requests collected website, Weibo and WeChat accounts, 139 mailbox and through our hotlines, sales outlets, electronic New experience Affordable and other channels. In 2014, we channels, and face-to-face customer day events to with 4G network simple data plans released 4,375 pieces of service identify the most important, urgent, and relevant information, responded to issues for our customers. Based on our findings, 687,000 customer inquiries we made six service commitments to better serve (including online instructions), our customers in the 4G era. and handled 468,000 online customer complaints. Six Service Optimising Tariff Structure Accessible Commitments Transparent Offline: We communicated premium service subscription In 2014, China Mobile adjusted and with customers through the optimised the tariff structure for our 4G services Customer Day event. In 2014, 6,774 general managers of our to provide more mid-priced and low-priced city-level branch companies tariff plans for customers. The lowest-priced 4G participated in Customer Day package now is priced at 58 yuan per month with events, responded to 101,000 a 30 yuan reduction. As for the fast growing data customers complaints and Real-name Say no to harmful traffic services, we reduced both the data rate for registration information collected 37,000 suggestions existing service packages and the minimum price from a total of 93,000 person– for Data Pack products. Now our smallest Data times of customers. Pack was 500MB for 30 yuan, half of its previous rate. Customers were also able to choose from Responsible Business We contracted an independent third-party survey monthly, quarterly and semi-annual Data Pack We also lowered the rate for 2G and 3G customers. on customer satisfaction for products based on their actual data needs to The rate for data usage out of plan traffic had dropped from the 15th consecutive year. avoid paying for unused data traffic. 1 yuan/MB to 0.29 yuan/MB, priced at the same level of 4G Based on feedback from over services. 300,000 customers sampled nationwide, our 2014 In 2014, we launched the 3/6/9 yuan international comprehensive customer satisfaction rate was 78.36%. ro a m i n g d a t a p a c k a g e s f o l l o w i n g o u r 1 / 2 / 3 y u a n international voice roaming packages, offering roaming discounts for both voice and data services. As of the end of 2014, our 3/6/9 yuan packages had been supported in 143 countries and regions, where our customers would use roaming data traffic service by 3MB increments, each priced at 3, 6 or 9 yuan depending on where they were. Customers could choose how much data they need, satisfying 99% of their data roaming need abroad. For popular destinations for Chinese tourists such as Hong Kong, Macau, Taiwan, Japan and Korea, we also launched the 30/60/90 yuan daily roaming packages with unlimited data traffic to completely fulfill their data needs. 17 Guaranteeing Informed Consumption China Mobile Communications Corporation 2014 Sustainability Report In December 2014, the Focus news programme of Central Television reported such an incident: an employee at China Mobile Heilongjiang Company Mudanjiang Branch activated a value added service for a customer without customer authorisation and billed the customer for the service. After the programme was aired, we conducted a thorough investigation and took disciplinary actions in accordance with company policies. Both the general manager and the vice general manager in-charge were suspended from duty and subject to further investigation. We also required all business units to conduct inspection on similar problems and protect customer rights by eliminating such risks. We have a zero tolerance policy towards unauthorised service subscription. We not only crack down on malware that subscribed services without customers’ knowledge and developed a list of malware and mobile phone viruses on our website to warn customers against such risks, but also continue to strengthen internal control and make sure that all such incidents would be addressed with thorough investigations and proper disciplinary actions. Regarding billing accuracy, another issue that concerns our customers, we built a two-tier billing data management Responsible Business system featuring single data source, layers of feedback, and synchronised supervision to ensure billing accuracy. Many customers were data traffic service users and it was quite easy for them to exceed their data limits. Regarding this, we provided universal real-time data usage reminder service and sent customers real-time reminders for eight different statuses regarding their data usage, such as close-to-limit reminder, rate-level change reminder, limit-reached reminder, and roaming charge reminder, etc. We also provided DoubleCeiling service to our 4G customers to help them avoid unintended extraordinarily high charges by stopping charging once data charge beyond the package reached 500 yuan in a month, and turning off data traffic once a customer used up 15GB data traffic beyond the package. In addition, we implemented the Refund First policy, providing maximum protection of customer rights by giving refunds to customers who filed complaint on billing issues and asked for refund even when the investigation was pending. We continued optimising our “0000” subscription inquiry and unsubscription system and billing reminder system. In 2014, we sent 350 million SMS billing reminder messages to customers each month on average, and our “0000” subscription inquiry and unsubscription system was used for 45 million times each month on average. Our “0000” subscription inquiry and We sent 350 million SMS unsubscription system was used by customers for 45 million times billing reminder messages each month on average to customers each month on average 18 Protecting Information Security China Mobile Communications Corporation 2014 Sustainability Report “Two abnormal GSM cell location activities are detected at Changhong Road and Chunyuan Road!” As Wang Jing and Zhang Zhiqing, both employees of China Mobile Hubei Company Xiangyang Branch, saw this message pop up on the real-time alarm system, they knew that the system scored again and captured another “disguised base station” fraud case. “Call the police!” They promptly wrote down the location of the disguised base station and rushed on-board a lawenforcement-aid vehicle parked downstairs. Detection was only the first step. A disguised base station used small-sized high-power equipment to disrupt normal connections of a large number of mobile phones. Criminals often placed the equipment in vans and operated from time to time. Therefore, law enforcement officers had to act promptly to catch the criminals. Wang Jing, Zhang Zhiqing and the law enforcement officers arrived at the location in time and the people operating the disguised base station equipment were caught. Witnessing the equipment being confiscated, they breathed a sigh of relief. Deep down in their hearts, they felt a strong sense of responsibility to protect customer communication security. Compared with traditional telecom fraud methods such as spam and fraud messages, disguised base station is far more harmful as each disguised base station is able to “hijack” thousands of mobile phones, forcing them to leave the operator’s network. China Mobile developed the disguised base station real-time alarm system and deployed it nationwide. The system had already helped solve 2,720 cases of disguised base station, resulting in the confiscation of 3,217 sets of equipment and arrests of 4,059 suspects. In Xiangyang city alone, we were able to stop 600,000 spam messages daily by cracking down on disguised base station. Across the nation, many China Mobile employees, just like Wang Jing and Zhang Zhiqing, were trying their best to protect customer information security. Responsible Business As mobile Internet became part of our daily life, development. In August 2014, we led the development of information related unlawful activities, such as telecom fraud, the first fraud calling management technical document at 3rd malware and mobile pornographic information, became Generation Partnership Project (3GPP). rampant. Meanwhile, spam message and harassing phone calls gave mobile customers a bad experience. In response, We also carried out the Network Cleaning 2014 we improved our management approaches to ensure a campaign to clean up online pornographic content in safe network environment with prevention, precaution and collaboration with relevant government departments. During punishment. the campaign, China Mobile detected and disposed over 2.91 million pieces of online pornographic content handled nearly Regarding controlling spam messages, we continued 49,000 customer complaints, and verified and blocked over adopting new technologies to improve the blocking 80,000 websites offering pornographic information. efficiency of our spam message control platform. In 2014, we experimented with the automatic detection and disposal Internally, we strictly implemented the practices of of spam and harassment messages based on big data and Customer Service “Five Bans”, “Vault Mode” and “Customer artificial intelligence technologies. The entire supervision Information Anonymisation” to prevent internal customer process was automatic. Meanwhile, we analysed consumer information leakage, protect customer privacy, and ensure behaviours to identify customers with suspicious activities by customers confidence when they use our telecommunication intensive monitoring, and continued building a list of highservices. The Vault Mode was selected by International risk users with feedback from face-to-face inspections and Telecommunication Union Telecommunication Standardisation customer complaints. Our efforts achieved positive results and Sector (ITU-T) as a draft international standard, and were effectively reduced the number of spam messages sent from approved to be an industry standard by China Communications suspicious accounts. In 2014, the number of complaints for Standards Association. spam message dropped by 64.9% compared with 2013. In 2014, the number of complaints for spam 6 4 .9 % Regarding the fraud activity involves disguising caller identities with special software, we studied its principles and message dropped by explored ways to intercept them. We developed a complete system to monitor, identify and intercept disguised calls from compared with 2013 abroad. In 2014, we identified nearly 5,600 fraud numbers with an accuracy rate of over 95% and intercepted 153 million unlawful calls. The average number of complaints per week received regarding international disguised phone number In 2014, we identified and dealt with nearly 5,600 frauds was down by more than 90% across 31 provinces in China since the interception system started operating. fraud numbers Meanwhile, China Mobile fully supports international standards 19 China Mobile Communications Corporation 2014 Sustainability Report Responsible Business Stakeholder Expectations Our Approaches Our 2014 Achievements Our 2015 Efforts ● Strict compliance with laws ● Establishing a sound ● Fully optimised our internal ● 4G base stations reach 1 and regulations, continuously corporate governance control system, applying million, 4G customers reach improving corporate structure more strict standards to 250 million, and 4G handset governance ● Improving whistle blowing handle new risks sales reach 200 million ● Lower tariff, better network channels, enhancing ● Implemented the Month of ● To achieve full commercialisation and better service business ethics education Anti-Corruption Education of unified communications ● Protecting customer and preventing corruption programme for over 3,000 ● To maintain the lowest information security risks times with 460,000 personcomplaint rate per million and smooth network ● Accelerating network times participation customers in the industry communication infrastructure construction, ● Brought 720,000 4G base covering both urban and stations into operation in suburban areas with 4G 2014, the number of 4G network customer reached 90.06 ● Adjusting tariff structure, million lowering data and roaming ● Comprehensively reduced tariffs, and accelerating 4G tariff for 2G and 3G data services development traffic by 71%, and for 4G by ● Completing information 50%. Launched 3/6/9 yuan security management package to greatly reduce system, analysing roaming tariff information security threats ● In 2014, the number to develop appropriate of complaints for spam solutions message dropped by 64.9%, and the complaint rate per million customers was 30.7, remaining the best in the industry for the fifth consecutive year Inclusive Growth 20 China Mobile Communications Corporation 2014 Sustainability Report “I miss you, Daddy!” Sitting in a special classroom in the “China Mobile Principal Training Plan” is an important No.6 Middle School in Kaili of Guizhou province, a girl with large component of the China Mobile Blue Dream Education Aid Plan, eyes was having a video chat with her father. She, who used to be an educational charity programme launched by China Mobile a shy girl, now just could not stop talking and laughing, with tears in cooperation with the Ministry of Education (MOE) and China Inclusive Growth of joy. This was Pan Lanhua, a student of Miao ethnical minority Education Development Foundation. The programme aims to of Guizhou Kaili No. 6 Middle School. Both her parents left their help schools in poverty areas in central and west China improve hometown to make a living in cities. Therefore, here was Pan their facilities and quality of teaching. In 2014, China Mobile had Lanhua, who chose to leave her village to attend a boarding school. invested 6 million yuan to train 11,539 principals from central and western China. At first, Pan Lanhua felt everything here in the school was quite strange, and living alone away from her family made her feel Aside from principal training, Blue Dream also builds libraries lonely and timid. For quite a long period, she was afraid of asking or and multimedia classrooms in these schools. In 2014, China Mobile answering questions in class and just sat through each class quietly invested 6 million yuan to donate 200 libraries and 190 multimedia with a timid look on her face. Pan Lanhua’s mindset and behaviour classrooms in rural primary and secondary schools in 12 central patterns were typical for other “left-behind” children in Guizhou and western provinces. In addition, we worked with the Ministry Kaili No. 6 Middle School. Yang Changjun, principal of the school, of Education to invite over 100 experts and teachers from Guangxi, observed this and became deeply worried. Bearing these worries Sichuan, Qinghai and other nine provinces to come to Wuhan in mind, Yang Changjun took part in the China Mobile Principal to participate in the Demonstration of China Mobile Multimedia Training programme with a mission and a responsibility to find a Teaching Applications where they learned and explored new way to help these children build their self-confidence. classroom teaching methods with multimedia devices. The China Mobile Principal Training programme inspired Since the China Mobile Blue Dream Education Aid Plan was Yang Changjun to realise that “a school should be not only where launched in 2006, it had already invested over 100 million yuan, children are educated, but also a warm and welcoming big family trained 70,539 primary and secondary school principals cumulatively, for them”. Soon the training programme was over and Yang accounting for 21.21% of all primary and secondary school Changjun returned to his work. Upon his return, Yang Changjun principals in those regions. The cumulative numbers of libraries immediately set up the Home for Left-behind Children equiped with and multimedia classrooms we donated reached 2,110 and 1,070 computers, where they could do video chats with their parents who respectively. The programme was nominated for “China Charity were thousands of miles away. Chatting with their families helped Award – Most Influential Charity Programme”, and awarded “2014 these children alleviate their longing for their families and the caring UN Global Compact China Best Practice” and other recognitions. and encouragement from their parents played an important role in helping them grow up healthily and positively with self-confidence. In 2015, we plan to train another 11,000 principals and build There were over 1,700 students out of more than 2,000 students another 200 libraries and 190 multimedia classrooms, continue of Guizhou Kaili No.6 Middle School coming from rural areas and to promote the Blue Dream plan to benefit teachers and students many of their parents worked outside. This often left the children in central and western China with advanced teaching concepts, the feeling that “my parents only give me money but no love.” It improved education quality, and better education facilities. was only in this special classroom that their psychological needs were taken care of, allowing more left-behind children like Pan Lanhua to feel the caring atmosphere of a family, and encouraging them to overcome their fear and uncomfortableness and be brave and confident as they lived and studied together with each other. 21 China Mobile Communications Corporation 2014 Sustainability Report “ Upon completion of our ‘shadow training’, I was really impressed with this training method. We had collective trainings, lectures from experts, standardised training management, detailed group study plan, and dedicated training facilities. Group members from different schools, regions, with different work experience and backgrounds were matched together to allow us to better identify weaknesses in ourselves and in the management of our schools and find solutions by learning from each other. What was more important is that our group was trained at a really good school, from which we learned much practical experience that we could use to manage ” our schools. – Principal He Changjie, Meixi Secondary School, Ziyuan county, Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region It is one of our important responsibilities to help improve education conditions in remote poverty areas. We are committed to addressing social issues, building inclusive communities, and growing together with all stakeholders. In 2014, we continued promoting employment, providing our employees with a welcoming work environment and better career development support, working Inclusive Growth together with our partners to promote industry growth and responsibility, and supporting poverty community development, vulnerable group care and contributing to reduce regional disparity and digital divide. In Shaanxi, principals were sitting in a classroom 100+ million yuan 70,539 2,110 libraries and 1,070 invested cumulatively since the Blue Dream primary and secondary rural plan’s launch in 2006 school principals from central and western China trained cumulatively multimedia classrooms built cumulatively 22 Growing Together with Employees Engagement Promoting Employment China Mobile Communications Corporation 2014 Sustainability Report In 2014, we produced 50 issues of internal MMS publication Mobile Weekly for all employees with an average “Hello. This is 10086. How can I help you?” Each morning, soft voices of both men and women speaking such reach rate of 90%. We also telephone greetings echoed in the training centre of Sichuan Employment Placement (Training) Base for the Physically produced 50 episodes of its Challenged. Anyone without witnessing this would have a hard time believing these people handling customer service requests video version Mobile Weekly or answering customer inquiries with professional manners were physically challenged people. Images. Hu Jin was a 26-year-old girl with level-three limb disability. As she tried different job opportunities, all she got were In September 2014, closed doors until she enrolled in China Mobile’s Employment Support Programme for the Physically Challenged. For the first we launched the “Following time in life, Hu Jin felt that she had met an opportunity that allowed her to truly achieve her potential. As Hu Jin completed the Footsteps of the Most her training and started a fulltime position, her talents in sales started attracting attention and soon she was recognised as a Admirable Mobilers into the star trainee and later promoted to a management trainer. Now, she has passed the qualification test for the adult education 4G Era” event companyprogramme of Southwestern University of Finance and Economics, and is promoted to supervisor position to help more wide, selecting 100 best trainees learn how to create value as well as happiness on their future jobs by passing on her experience. teams, 100 key events and 100 best moments of the 4G Another trainee named Xia Mengjie remarked, “I used to be quite shy and did not speak much. Here we got one-ondevelopment, demonstrating one training on communication skills from China Mobile customer service trainers. We are a big family, students and teachers the outstanding people and alike, and I became happier and happier and more and more out-going during the days I spent here. I owe them a ‘Thank intriguing stories behind You!’ from the bottom of my heart. our 4G miracle from the following five aspects: Inclusive Growth technical innovation, network construction and maintenance, sales and China Mobile pays close attention to employment issues, service, device support and so as to fulfil our social responsibility of assisting employment others. for special groups. In June 2013, we launched China Mobile’s Employment Support Programme for the disabled in Sichuan, providing customer service hotline positions for them. We gave them trainings and one-on-one follow-up mentoring from hotline training experts, and helped them meet our qualifications with trainings on Putonghua skills, telephone communication skills and China Mobile business operations allowing them to realise their self-worth. The programme was recognised as a 2014 Outstanding Volunteer Programme of Central Enterprises by State-owned Assets Supervision and Administration Commission (SASAC). Programme Impacts: built entrepreneurial incubators in 85 colleges and universities Indicators Data in China. In 2014, we launched the 2014-2016 “Dreams Total Investments 4 million yuan with You” Million Youth Entrepreneurship and Employment Employees trained cumulatively 700 Programme in cooperation with The Central Committee of the Communist Young League. The programme extended its Employees obtained fulltime employment 200 previous successes and focused on a number of new activities Families with disabled members avoided to help youth students realise their dreams, including forging financial crisis 600 a new platform for student developers, developing 100 entrepreneurship incubation bases, providing 1,000 training Calls were answered by physically 856,000 sessions, 10,000 pilot projects, one million employment challenged employees times opportunities, and 10 million yuan as entrepreneurship Customer satisfaction rate 97% competition awards. We also created a mobile Internet entrepreneurship and In Pakistan, China Mobile subsidiary CMPak Limited employment platform. We launched Mobile Market’s Youth built the largest local call center, which provided 402 job Business Start-up Plan in August 2010 to build entrepreneurial positions for female employees thus advocated local female incubators for young developers. As of the end of 2014, employment. Through continuous investment, we are we had been offering mobile Internet trainings and practice offering information services to the people of Pakistan, as opportunities for approximately 2.382 million developers, and well as more than 50,000 employments directly or indirectly. 23 Developing in Career We understand that the cultivation of our employees’ China Mobile Communications Corporation 2014 Sustainability Report professional competence and work skills is of vital importance to us as the long-term driver behind our strategic transformation and innovation-driven development. In order to grow together with our employees, we continued innovating and experimenting on providing an open and encouraging career development platform that could address both our employees’ career development needs and the needs of our own business development. Training and Education Employee training at China Mobile was becoming increasingly specialised and professional. Our continuous innovation on training and education models not only helped improve the professional competence of our employees, but also played a significant role in powering our business growth. In Shanghai, we organised training sessions for new employees Our Online University offers a variety of training courses to all employees such as corporate strategy, corporate Career Development culture, operation strategy communication, skill certification for certain positions, and personal development. It provides We actively encourage and support professional and comprehensive learning support for our employees’ career technical employees to develop their expertise and achieve development and professional growth with centralised training breakthrough. We established a senior engineer review resources. In 2014, our Online University attracted 321,000 committee and an expert database covering the entire Inclusive Growth employees to study online with total study time reaching 8.2 company. We also organised a company-wide online review million hours, averaging 25 hours per person. Over 140,000 of all senior engineers. 300 experts passed the review and employees started using mobile phones to study, signifying were included in the expert database. that online learning was an important channel to aid employee career development. We continued enhancing our employee two-way rotation mechanism. In 2014, a total of 16 employees from The continuous innovative practice of China Mobile 13 departments at our headquarters were selected to work University in employee training was recognised with a number on rotation positions at 11 provincial subsidiaries, while of prominent industry awards, including the top global award 14 employees were rotated from provincial subsidiaries to for training and education ”2014 ATD-Excellence in Practice headquarters. Meanwhile, for the first time we sent 40 newly Award”, the ”2014 China Best Enterprise University” and recruited employees directly from schools to take grassroot the ”2014 Engine Award – China Benchmarked Enterprise level positions in central and western provincial subsidiaries University”. in order to promote their development with richer work experience and better knowledge set. In Qinghai, we organised team building activities 24 Caring for Employees China Mobile cares about employees’ personal health China Mobile Communications Corporation 2014 Sustainability Report Advanced trainings for EAP and work-life balance. We conducted surveys on what concerned our employees the most to understand their specialists needs, which would help us better serve our employees both In 2014, we further enhanced our at work and during their personal lives. internal EAP specialist team and accomplished the goal we set in 2009 of Personal Health developing 180 advanced EAP specialists. In 2014, we started making preparation for the “Happy Hosting the Third Annual China 1+1” employee personal health improvement programme, encouraging all subsidiaries to organise innovative group Mobile EAP Forum activities to enhance both the physical health and the mental We invited external experts to explore EAP conditions for employees. Now we have completed gathering trends focusing on how to maintain insuggestions from subsidiary trade unions and the programme depth employee communication during will be officially launched in 2015. transition period, and the development of Internet enabled EAP applications. We care about employees’ mental health and are continuously expanding the coverage of Employee Assistance Hosting Featured Lectures Programme (EAP). By now, both our headquarters and all We hosted a series of featured lectures 31 provincial subsidiaries have implemented EAPs, covering on personal health, parent-child 280,000 person-times in total. education, stress management, etc. We also provided professional counselling In 2014, China TieTong Telecommunications Corporation service that was customised to individual carried out a nationwide employee survey by sending needs through our EAP WeChat questionnaires and interviewing, and completed A Survey platform. Report on Vital Interests of the Employees, analizing the Inclusive Growth issues the employees most concerned about. TieTong Telecommunications Corporation will base on the conclusion of this report to conduct employee communication and caring activities. Work-Life Balance We encourage our employees to participate in various physical exercises and improve their work-life balance. In 2014, we organised balloon volleyball training and competition internally, and our winning team later competed in the national balloon volleyball tournament of telecommunication employees and achieved an outstanding ranking. We had been planning for the founding of China Mobile Painting and Calligraphy Association. We collected painting and calligraphy works from our employees to launch the “Mobile Love, China Dream” internal exhibition, and organised communication events with association of SASAC employees. Several departments at our headquarters worked together to develop the China Mobile Photography Collections, providing a new and convenient platform to collect mobile phone photography works to compete in the mobile phone photography contest for telecommunication employees, a special event at the Beijing International Photography Week. In Hubei, we organised a team to participate in a dragon boat competition 25 Win-win Development with Industry Shared Growth China Mobile Communications Corporation 2014 Sustainability Report Inclusive Growth As a large enterprise whose annual procurement Achievements exceeds hundreds of billions of yuan, China Mobile strove to establish a highly efficient procurement system. In 2014, we made improvement to our centralised procurement system Reduces the printing of Equivalent to reducing timber consumption regarding procurement scale, technological standardisation and versatility. We also expanded its scope and issued out 2014 first-level and second-level procurement catalogues 204,000 copies of bidding documents per year by 772 tonnes including nearly 1,900 products and services of 14 categories. The concentration ratio of first-level procurement increased Equivalent to CO2 emission reduction of from 33% in 2013 to 52.5% in 2014, and the concentration ratio for first-level and second-level procurement increased from 88% in 2013 to 93% in 2014. Saves 887 of paper per year tonnes 2,040 tonnes We attach great importance to promoting procurement model revolution within our industry with IT solutions. Our goal is to contribute to shaping harmonious industry ecology by creating an Internet-based competition environment Promoting Revolution that is fair, open, transparent, healthy and beneficial to in Industry Full Transparency: Procurement Model Big Data: all. In 2014, we launched an electronic procurement and full procurement process manage and analyse big bidding system, ensuring transparency and traceability for all go public, build a fair and data, share and exploit procurement projects along the entire procurement process open market industry procurement with functions such as project documentation, procurement information information disclosure, real-time and follow-up inspections, Electronic and project information archiving. The system specified Procurement six procurement approaches, standardised 220 business and Bidding System processes, and developed 65 sets of document templates. High Efficiency: Low Cost: The highly efficient collaboration between buyers, suppliers, whole process centralised system experts and supervisors not only reduced our transaction standardised and construction and cost, but also significantly sped up the paperless process electronic, overall operation, reduce costs of bidding operations. As of the end of 2014, the system efficiency improved for for both parties had processed 8,740 procurement projects cumulatively both parties with 17,863 new suppliers and 21,169 experts registered cumulatively. 26 We leverage our expertise in information technology and engage our suppliers to help them bring down cost of cooperation and realise win-win cooperation. China Mobile Communications Corporation 2014 Sustainability Report Launching “1111 Supplier Service” in Guangdong Performance The “1111 Supplier Service” referred to provides our suppliers with a complete service package ranging Monthly average visits of the website: Monthly average calls of the hotline: 1.15 from registration, certification, contracting, ordering, payment, and policy consultation with four channels for suppliers: a portal, a hotline, a service website, and a supplier communication conference for each quarter. million 4,400 About 12,000 service suppliers were served with 1.15 million website visits and over 4,400 hotline calls each month. In addition, our Guangzhou Company worked Small and medium-sized suppliers Total financing amount: together with Shanghai Pudong Development Bank received financing service: (SPDB) to provide approximately 300 million yuan to 46 small and medium-sized suppliers to help them reduce cost of capital. 46 300 million yuan Establishing WeChat Supplier Portal in Anhui Inclusive Growth Suppliers could log in the WeChat Supplier Portal with their mobile phones to carry out a Performance variety of activities, including shipment releasing and receiving, contracting compliance, payment, Suppliers registered at the portal: Monthly orders processed: complaint, and checking notices and performance evaluation result, forging responsive and convenient supply chain operations. This allows suppliers to handle operational business at any time. There were 1,400 5,000 about 1,400 suppliers registered at the portal, which processed over 5,000 orders online each month with real time information sharing between buyers, users and suppliers and the automation of our procurement Workload reduced per transaction: Supply cycle reduced: process, reducing workload per transaction by 70% and supply cycle by 2 days. We also lowered product quality risks by sharing complaint data and quality 70% 2 days inspection data. 27 Shared Responsibilities Engagement China Mobile is committed to sharing values with our value chain partners and leading them towards a greener approach, China Mobile Communications Corporation 2014 Sustainability Report In December 2014, enhancing both the awareness and the capacity of responsibility across the industrial chain. we hosted the 2014 China Mobile Global We integrated strict social responsibility requirements into our procurement management, and compiled 19 supplier Partner Cooperation certification templates, covering 35 categories of products in first-level centralised procurement. These templates contained Conference under the sections on Environment, Society and Governance, setting specific requirements for suppliers on energy conservation, emissions theme of “Converge reduction, labour management, workplace health and safety management and business ethics. We required ISO 14001 New Drivers with 4G” environmental management certification and SA8000 (Social Accountability 8000) certifications for supplier of certain product in Guangzhou. Over categories. 5,000 device industry partners, application In 2014, we made joint efforts together with our partners to promote intellectual property right protection and enhanced developers and mobile the copyright management at business platforms of our Mobile Reading Base, Wireless Music Base and other business bases. Internet partners around the world joined us to ● Mobile Game Base: We established copyright management mechanism covering screening, monitoring and processing explore the outlook and at different phases. We screened copyright documents and contents provided by our partners and identified 279 development for 4G games in violation of copyright management rules, among which those with direct copyright infringement were related businesses. removed. We invited over 180 ● Mobile Reading Base: We implemented approval screening and anti-piracy measures in order to promote the suppliers to participate development of Internet literature by refusing books which did not meet copyright requirements. In 2014, we set in our 2014 supplier up a Green Copyright Alliance system at the Base and 23 partners had already joined the alliance. Meanwhile, we reverse assessment as conducted an overall copyright screening of online literature, accounting for 20% of content screened. an effort to enhance Inclusive Growth ● Wireless Music Base: We established the most comprehensive copyright protection system in the industry, containing our communication with 14 screening standards in four categories in compliance with Copyright Law and Regulations on the Protection suppliers to address their of Information Network Transmission Right. To ensure each song was legally authorised, we required partners to concerns. demonstrate proofs of rights of recording producers, performers and song writers among others, and required the authorisation process to be properly done regarding their terms and time frame. We also advocate a green approach and participate in developing relevant industry standards. ● In 2014, we participated in drafting the Energy & Resource Efficiency Requirements for Data Centres national standards, as well as the relevant industry standards in cooperation with China Communications Standards Association (CCSA). ● We played a leading role in the formulation of five energy-saving industry standards for wireless network, core network and transmission network equipment. ● We actively participated in and promoted the GreenTouch international cooperation, and formed a work group with Korea Telecom in the field of smart energy. ● We participated in the 2014 Telecommunication Industry Energy Conservation and Emissions Reduction Innovation Forum and the Seventh China Green Communication Conference and shared our experience in energy conservation and emissions reduction with other participants. 28 Sharing with Community Narrowing the Digital Divide China Mobile Communications Corporation 2014 Sustainability Report “6995” Platform Ensures Rural Residents Security Yan Shiliang was a migrant worker from Baoshan city, Yunnan province. Several years ago, he left his hometown Xinchang Village together with his wife and child to find employment opportunities, leaving his parents behind. One day last year, he received a sudden call from his mother. With a sobbing voice, she told Yan Shiliang that his 83-year-old father had a stroke, half of his body was paralysed and he could not move his limbs. She felt desperate and lost. As the family’s only son, Yan Shiliang worried a great deal for his parents hearing his mother’s helpless voice. His hometown was in a remote mountain area and even if he called 120 or 110 for emergency assistance, the help would not make it there in time. Suddenly, it crossed his mind that he could try seeking help from his neighbours by dialling “6995”. He did so and asked his neighbours to give his parent urgent help. “I am Shiliang! My dad got ill suddenly! Please help get a doctor for him as soon as possible! Thank you so much!” After a while, a neighbour called back, “Don’t worry, Shiliang. All your neighbours are at your home, and your uncle already got a doctor here on his motorcycle. Your dad feels much better now…” Hearing this, Yan Shiliang breathed a sigh of relief. Compared with the rapid and convenient information Performance of the “6995” service platform: transmission in urban areas, it was very difficult for people Indicators Data Inclusive Growth in some remote rural areas to obtain community assistance. With this situation in mind and considering the government’s Police call 23,000 times information strategy for rural areas, China Mobile developed Farming help 130,000 messages the “6995” service platform. The “6995” service platform Disaster relief 4,000+ times connects ten households in one neighbourhood into one caller group, allowing villagers to make calls to their Post-disaster assistance (disaster neighbours all together, thus forming a three-tier information notification, epidemic prevention, service network of “villager–neighbourhood–group”. relief goods distribution, Villagers were able to use this network to help each other, information broadcast, etc.) 5,000+ times get farming help, organise a neighbourhood watch, and Medical assistance 490 times contact the police for help. In 2014, we continued implementing the ”Village Connected Project” to speed up the development of network coverage in remote regions. As of the end of 2014, we had brought broadband service to 7,451 administrative villages and 400 rural schools, and mobile phone service to 3,007 natural villages. In the past ten years, we had provided mobile phone access to 121,243 remote villages and broadband access to 27,995 administrative villages in total. During our 4G rollout, we developed the enhanced coverage plan for 4G network in rural areas to better fit local conditions. In July 2014, we conducted a pilot project of enhanced coverage in Xinyang, Henan province, achieving 90% continuous coverage of local rural areas and providing high quality data service to local villagers. We will promote this technology under different rural conditions in order to build a premium rural 4G network. “ I used to have to visit their homes or call them one by one to notify them of something. If I was away from the village, it would be even more difficult. With the “6995” service platform, I could either talk to many villagers all at once or broadcast my message over the loud-speaker system in the village just using my mobile phone, even if I were away in Beijing. It allows me to save a lot of time and money, and it is ” really handy! – Li Yong, Village Director, Mingyue village of Dianjing county in Chongqing municipality In Guizhou, we activated free family calls for some minority schools 29 We implemented the Five Ones project for rural market, featuring “One Township, One Village, One Sales Outlet, One Staff, and One Network”, to ensure the coverage of each village with sales outlets and staff so that customers could purchase or make inquiries of our services conveniently. At of the end of 2014, we had developed 602,000 rural sales outlets while the Device China Mobile Communications Corporation 2014 Sustainability Report Company had established 1,094 after-sales service outlets, covering 91% of cities in China. Service at Doorsteps Helps Elderly Use Mobile Phone “Grandma, I come to see you again. How are areas. They helped villagers clean their phones and attach you? Can you remember how to use the one touch dial protective covers, answer their inquiries, and repair their function on your mobile phone?” phones for free. They also gave lectures on how to use mobile phones and provided skill training to rural repair Zhao Min is an after-sales service representative shops. Regarding the difficulties for empty-nest elderly of China Mobile. Each week, she schedules a visit to people using their mobile phone or getting service, our the 65-year-old Grandma Zhou to answer her questions repair staffs at the city level were required to pay them on how to use her mobile phone. This heart-warming regular visits and form one-on-one service relationships. service stemmed from the requirements of the aftersales service management mechanism China Mobile So far, we have allocated 96 after-sales service developed in Jiangsu province. Grandma Zhou is an representatives cumulatively and established an effective “empty-nest” elderly lady. Zhao Min formed a one-onservice network covering 8 cities and over 100 townships one service relationship with her and showed her how to in Jiangsu province. This network has 3 tiers, including use the basic functions of her mobile phone with facea management platform at the provincial level, 7 service to-face demonstration. The use of a mobile phone was centres at city level, and 21 service drop-off outlets. With Inclusive Growth easy for a young person, but it took Grandma Zhou times the help of our after-sales service representatives, our after times of repetition and practice. During the whole elderly customers had learned how to better use their process, Zhao Min was very professional and gradually mobile phones, such as setting one touch dial, saving taught her how to use her phone with great patience. contact numbers, taking pictures, etc. We are committed to helping the vast numbers of customers in rural areas Starting from January 2014, we organised a rural keep up with the development of information society. service team in Jiangsu to pay regular service visits to rural Performance of Jiangsu After-sales Service Network: Indicators Data Lectures on mobile phone use for elderly in townships 30 times 1,100 Cumulative number of customers served person-times Number of elderly customers to whom 150 we provide in-home service households Number of skill trainings for local service outlets 35 times In Jiangsu, our after-sale representatives were visiting a resident 30 Supporting Poverty Alleviation China Mobile is with You on Poverty Alleviation China Mobile Communications Corporation 2014 Sustainability Report “Look! There are really good edible fungus growing on the cultivation sticks 20 days after the sticks were planted. In the past, we had to gather them from the mountains. It had never crossed my mind that we can grow it right here in the village. Science is awesome!” This exciting remark on edible fungus cultivation came from a village girl from Hari Chulu Gazha in Neimenggu. Hari Chulu Gazha is in the southeast of Jalaid Banner of Neimenggu. This area had a population of 1,650 people, among which 42% were in poverty. The annual per capita income was only around 2,600 yuan. To better help them out of poverty, we dispatched a support team. They studied local conditions and identified a number of problems of the local population who mainly did farming for a living, including lack of variety and low unit yield. After consulting agricultural experts, we concluded that edible fungus cultivation was a feasible agricultural poverty alleviation project. We selected ten households with appropriate conditions from the local poverty population and granted 10,000 yuan to each household as seed capital. We also brought in edible fungus experts to teach them the technology. We set up a workshop locally to produce cultivation stick to reduce cost. Besides these, we launched product promotions at national agricultural products trade fairs and achieved good results. This project was expected to be expanded to cover 30 poverty households in 2015, and help our poverty alleviation target households increase their per capita net income by 130%, reaching 6,000 yuan per year in 2017. We have implemented many other related assistance work there. Regarding the backward information development, we teamed up with a third-party network equipment vendor and provided broadband equipment and Inclusive Growth access to this village. Villages could access this service by paying only 300 yuan. To help the villagers learn agricultural news and gain farming and cultivation skills, we also provided a number of agricultural information for free, such as the Golden Speaker project, free update of the Rural Information Network service, and rural weather services, etc. We also paid attention to helping local university students with their education and employment. China Mobile Neimenggu Company Xing’an Branch and Jalaid Branch offered preferential consideration to college graduates from local families stricken by poverty. We also established a college poverty student employment and internship centre at Xing’an Branch. In Gaize county, Ali district, Xizang, we carried out poverty alleviation activities 31 It is an important social responsibility for us to support poverty alleviation and regional development. In 2014, our company provided 40.43 million yuan as targeted aid and China Mobile Communications Corporation 2014 Sustainability Report poverty relief support. Supporting “Water Cellar for Love” project in Yunnan province Severe droughts happened repeatedly in Yunnan in the last several years, causing severe water shortage. China Mobile Charity Foundation participated in the Water Cellar for Love project in Yunnan, where water cellars played an important role in helping people living in mountainous areas to store water for use. We planned to construct 5,333 water cellars in Yunnan during the 2014-2015 period. At of the end of 2014, we had completed the construction of 2,666 water cellars. In Guizhou, our volunteers carried out the ”and You” events for primary school students “Stay with You” One-on-One Assistance programme We continuously carry out targeted aid and poverty alleviation activities. In 2014, we chose two branch companies to implement our targeted aid programme, one in Qinma County in Luozhou State, Qinghai, the other in Gaize County in Ali District, Xizang. We encouraged our employees to participate in one-on-one support Inclusive Growth activities for Tibetan students from families in poverty. We raised more than 140,000 yuan, which was distributed to these students at 1,200 yuan per person per year. We also raised over 10,000 winter coats, 350 blankets, and more than 500 books, valued at close to one million yuan in total, to take care of both the needs of school children in remote areas, and the need for education resources. Our volunteers donated clothes and books to primary school students in poverty in Gaize county, Ali district, Xizang 32 Supporting Social Philanthropy China Mobile Charity Foundation is a private foundation solely owned by China Mobile starting from 2009. It has launched China Mobile Communications Corporation 2014 Sustainability Report a series of long-time philanthropic programmes in promoting educational equality and assisting vulnerable groups. In 2014, China Mobile Charity Foundation donated 38.3 million yuan and its cumulative charity donation reached 157.35 million yuan. The donation was mainly used to support the “Blue Dream” Education Aid Plan, Heart Caring Campaign and other strategic philanthropic programmes. Donations of China Mobile Charity Foundation (Unit: 10,000 Yuan) 4,000 3,830 3,830 3,500 3,000 2,655 2,500 2,200 2,020 2,000 1,500 1,200 1,000 500 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Inclusive Growth In Heilongjiang, we carried out philanthropy activities for the elderly In 2014, China Mobile Charity Foundation donated Its cumulative charity donation reached 38.3 million yuan 157.35 million yuan 33 China Mobile Communications Corporation 2014 Sustainability Report Inclusive Growth China Mobile Heart Caring Campaign – Aid for Children in Poverty with Congenital Heart Disease Programme Mingbo was a three-year-old girl. After a round of energetic playing, she rested in the arms of her father with a sweet smile on her lovely face. This cherishable moment did not come easily for them, as Mingbo was diagnosed with congenital heart disease soon after her birth. Her parents were farmers with a mediocre income. Her disease was a heavy blow to the family. Happiness disappeared from the faces of her parents as they tried all means to raise money so Mingbo could have treatment. In 2012, China Mobile launched the Heart Caring Campaign in Liaoning Province. The programme rekindled the hope of Mingbo’s family for her treatment. When Mingbo was ten-month-old, China Mobile sponsored her surgery and it was successful. Now Mingbo has fully recovered. Her mother expressed their gratitude in an excited speech, ”The kid is in kindergarten now. She can play around just like any other kid. We give our sincere thanks to China Mobile Charity Foundation for the help. There are smiles on our faces all the time.” In 2014, China Mobile “Heart Caring Campaign” Aid for Children “ in Poverty with Congenital Heart Disease Programme invested 22.5 million Congenital heart disease is the most serious one among all the yuan in total. We continued existing programmes in Henan, Shanxi and congenital diseases and its occurrence rate is high in China. China Mobile Liaoning, launched a new programme in Qinghai, provided free screening Charity Foundation played a complementary role for government in helping to 6,052 children in poverty and sponsored free surgeries for 919 children address societal needs where traditional government resources have difficulty diagnosed with congenital heart disease in total. Since 2011, China Mobile reaching. The Heart Caring Campaign not only reduced the burden on the Heart Caring Campaign has cumulatively provided free screening to 23,840 families of these children, brought hope to their lives, but also helped to children in poverty from Neimenggu, Liaoning, Henan, Shanxi and Qinghai bring down crime rate and prevent infant abandoning, making contributions ” and cumulatively sponsored the treatment of 2,260 children diagnosed to a harmonious society. with congenital heart disease. In addition, our employee volunteers contributed over 3,600 hours of work cumulatively. – Cheng Yifeng, Section Chief of Research Department, Network News Communication Bureau of the State Internet Information Office 23,840 children in poverty received free screening of 2,260 children diagnosed with congenital heart disease 3,600+ cumulative hours of employee congenital heart disease cumulatively received free surgery treatment cumulatively volunteer work 34 China Mobile 2014 Employee Philanthropy Stars Starting from 2012, we added a category, Philanthropy Star, to our annual CSR Best Practices Selection practice as a special dedication to China Mobile China Mobile Communications Corporation 2014 Sustainability Report employees who dedicated their time to philanthropic activities and serving society. In 2014, the following Philanthropy Stars were selected based on over 260,000 online votes from the public. Zhu Ming: Standing behind These Children Zhu Ming is the party secretary of China Mobile Sichuan Company Hongya Branch. For a decade, he has been providing In 2014, the number of registered continuous support to children who dropped out of school because China Mobile employee volunteers of poverty with over 160,000 yuan personal donations as well as 20 reached rounds of in-kind donations. In 2004, when Zhu Ming was the general 115,200 manager of the county branch, he learned that some students with good academic performance in Liujiang Township had to drop out of school due to poverty. He went to the school and donated 500 yuan to each of the six students after verifying their situation. Zhu Ming never stopped supporting students in poverty and left-behind children ever since. His persistence and devotion moved many others such as family, friends, colleagues, and our business partners, and he was accompanied by more and more people to share their love and care. As his story became known to more people, this brought him recognitions such as Sichuan Labour Model and Hongya Love Ambassador. Zhu Ming still maintains his belief and carries on doing Inclusive Growth Our volunteers served more than these good deeds. 460,000 Yue Lei: Passing on Unselfish Love hours Yue Lei is an account manager at China Mobile Henan Company Zhengzhou Branch. On 28 April 2014, Yue Lei became China’s 4,131st volunteer donor of hematopoietic stem cell. She underwent a four-hour procedure to donate stem cells to help a three-year-old child regain the hope of life. Yue Lei was 33 years old and a mother of a 4-year-old child. Other than being a hard worker and a loving mom, Yue Lei became an active blood donor since 1999. Over the last 15 years, she had donated over 5,400 millimetres blood. As the first employee donating stem cells in Henan Company, Yue Lei’s story encouraged more people around her to pass on their love and contribute to society. Wang Xuan: Paying back to Community Wang Xuan is a hotline supervisor of the Jiaodong customer service sub-centre of China Mobile Shandong Company, and she also acts as the union chairman of the centre. In April 2012, she formed a Red Cross volunteer team at the centre, organising employee volunteers to participate in various community services, such as emergency aid, blood drive, and caring for the elderly and children. In December 2013, Wang Xuan initiated and organised the Warm Winter Action, which raised over 170 pieces of winter clothes and blankets for children in remote mountain areas. Wang Xuan held the belief that “what one person can do is limited, but what a group of persons can do is unlimited.” Under her leadership, their volunteer team kept on growing and their volunteer activities have won widespread recognition. 35 China Mobile Communications Corporation 2014 Sustainability Report Inclusive Growth Stakeholder Expectations Our Approaches Our 2014 Achievements Our 2015 Efforts ● Creating employment to solve ● Creating employments for ● EAP programmes fully ● Continue to implement EAP, social issues special groups launched company-wide, launch the “Happy 1+1” ● Offering career development ● Enhancing workplace health covered 280,000 personprogramme for all employees platform and a harmonious and safety management times to help them keep healthy work environment ● Innovating trainings, ● 92% employees received ● To expand electronic ● Open and transparent expanding EAP coverage, and health checkups procurement and bidding competition environment, improving work-life balance ● Electronic procurement and system to cover all city level mutually beneficial and winbidding system handled subsidiaries ● Developing the electronic win cooperation procurement and bidding 8,740 projects cumulatively, ● To train 11,000 primary ● Supporting social philanthropy, system to achieve win-win with contract amount adding and secondary rural school assisting disadvantaged groups cooperation up to 153 billion yuan. principals from central or and achieving inclusive growth ● Cumulatively connected western China, donate 200 ● Continuously carrying 121,243 remote villages with libraries and 190 multimedia out strategic philanthropy mobile phone access and classrooms programmes and encouraging employee 27,995 administrative villages ● To expand Heart Caring volunteering with broadband access Campaign to Ningxia and ● “Blue Dream” Education Guangxi, and sponsor the Aid Plan cumulatively treatment of 850 poor trained 70,539 primary children with congenital and secondary rural school heart disease principals from central and western China, donated 2,110 libraries and 1,070 multimedia classrooms ● Cumulatively screened 23,840 children in poverty for free and sponsored surgery treatment for 2,260 children diagnosed with congenital heart disease Sustainable Values 36 China Mobile Communications Corporation 2014 Sustainability Report “Yes! We have found Grandpa Yu. Please don’t worry!” home, Wang Lianbo was told that this was already the fourth After telling the other side of the phone these words, Wang time he got lost over the last six months. Grandma Wang Lianbo heard “thanks” in a sobbing voice. Looking at the old mentioned that she came across a promotional activity in the Sustainable Values man standing beside him who did not react to the phone neighbourhood of this yellow wristband. After being told call, he sighed in relief. that the wristband was intended to prevent elderly people from getting lost, she immediately registered and got one for Wang Lianbo is a subway police officer of Yuhong her husband. She remarked, “I’m surprised that it would be Police Station in Shenyang. One day afternoon, someone saw of use in such a short time.” an old man wandering around the subway entrance with a confused look on his face. He tried to help but the old man I n 2 0 1 2 , C h i n a M o b i l e l a u n c h e d t h e “ Ye l l o w could not tell who he was, where he wanted to go or where Wristband”charity programme with Shenyang Public Security he lived. So he had to ask Wang Lianbo for help. Bureau and Shenyang Evening News in Liaoning and provided those who were suffering from Alzheimer’s disease The first thing Wang Lianbo noticed was a yellow or severe mental illness with yellow wristbands with unique wristband the old man was wearing. He brought the old man numbers and positioning chips inside free of charge. With back to the police station and entered the number on the the wristband, people could get the position of lost elderly wristband into computer. The system showed that his name people, or search for their information to find their home was Yu, he was 75 years old and he lived in Bajing Street in addresses on the database once some lost elderly people Heping District. Wang Lianbo called the emergency contact were found. As of the end of 2014, we had distributed over number immediately and got in touch with the old man’s 200,000 yellow wristbands to elderly people or people with wife, Grandma Wang. When he escorted the old man to his special needs. “ We often came across the incident of elderly people got lost. Sometimes when we located the people, they were just several hundred metres away from their homes. Even so, it was really dangerous for them in winter when outdoor temperature dropped to ten or twenty degrees sub-zero. Now, as many of them wear the yellow wristbands, it is much easier for us to help send them home. ” – Wang Lianbo, Police Officer, Yuhong Police Station, Shenyang Public Security Bureau 37 As population aging accelerated, issues such as elderly care and elderly safety became pressing challenges hindering China’s China Mobile Communications Corporation 2014 Sustainability Report social development. Focusing on what the people and society need, we were committed to leveraging information technology to offer more efficient and convenient services for the elderly population. In Sichuan, we launched the Elderly Care at Home information service, offering seven categories of services, including medical care, emotional companion, community activities, daily care, information service, health management, and emergency assistance. Elderly customers could access our services at any time and from any location through our 12349 hotline, text message, mobile APP or website. We continued carrying out the “China Dream, Mobile Heart – 12349 Elderly Care” programme, distributing free mobile phones with one-touch positioning function to elderly people over 60 years old. As of the end of 2014, we had invested 15 million yuan cumulatively, distributed 10,076 one-touch positioning mobile phones, covering nearly 20,000 households of elderly people with our Elderly Care at Home service system, and provided one-on-one elderly care activities to 115,000 person-times of elderly people. With the development of 4G and mobile Internet, information applications started playing increasingly important roles in changing people’s lives and transforming our society. The telecommunication industry is facing the same rapid change. China Mobile actively promotes sustainable creation of shared value, welcomes the change, develops suitable organisation and capacity for the mobile Internet development, and creates more possibilities for “Mobile Changes Life”. We are committed to pushing forward our strategic transformation and making adjustment to the way we operate and create value, developing a rich variety of Sustainable Values innovative information applications to enrich people’s lives, strictly managing our environmental impact and aiming at enabling a green future with information technological solutions. 10,076 Our Elderly Care at Home service One-on-one elderly care system covered close to activities participated by one-touch positioning mobile phones distributed 20,000 115,000 for free to the elderly households of elderly people person-times of elderly people 38 Innovation and Transformation In 2014, while the Chinese economy entered the new normal stage, the development of the telecommunication industry enjoyed a beneficial macroeconomic China Mobile Communications Corporation 2014 Sustainability Report and policy environment as the Chinese government formulated the “Internet+” action plan and listed information consumption as the first priority among the six major consumption areas. Meanwhile, China Mobile was experiencing more severe competition from both industry peers and the Internet. Under these circumstances, we actively strengthened our three key drivers, accelerated the adjustment of our strategic focuses, and promoted innovation-driven development. Accelerating Adjustment of Strategic Focuses 662.5 billion yuan Development of Specialised Companies as operating revenue, an increase of 0.1% China Mobile Communication Group Device Company Limited: Developed own-brand five-modes smart phone models M811 and M812 priced around 1,000 yuan. They were sold to countries including France, Spain, Pakistan and Thailand and their cumulative sales volume reached 1.1 million units. over 2013 China Mobile Communication Corporation Government and Enterprise Service Company: Launched a number of new products such as Mobile Cloud, 4G vehicle-mounted smart device and OBD device, and established a service quality monitoring platform for corporate customers. China Mobile International Limited: Reduced international roaming tariffs and introduced the 150.6 billion yuan innovative 3/6/9 yuan data traffic packages and 30/60/90 yuan unlimited data traffic packages for data roaming. as China Mobile M2M Company Limited: Focused on the development and operation of a dedicated mobile data traffic revenue, an increase of Internet of Things (IoT) and an open IoT platform, as well as researched and promoted smart home systems 42.9% and Internet of Vehicles (IoV) applications. Conducted researches and operations of IoT communication Sustainable Values modules, and provided integrated IoT industry solutions. over 2013 China Mobile Online Services Company Limited: To focus on helping customers solve problems they (Data of China Mobile Limited) came across when using mobile Internet as a key platform for our centralised service management. MIGU Co., Ltd.: To focus on businesses related to the provision, operation and service of digital contents. This specialised subsidiary was established by consolidating together our five service bases for music, video, reading, games and animation. New Infrastructure Construction 1,293 patent applications were China Mobile (Suzhou) Software Technology Company Limited (Suzhou R&D Center): To provide industry-leading R&D and operation support for cloud computing, big data and advanced IT supporting system. 579 patents summited in 2014 and China Mobile (Hangzhou) Information Technology Company Limited (Hangzhou R&D Center): To become a professional supplier of mobile Internet solutions. were granted China Mobile International Information Port: To develop a world-class environmentally friendly information park with advanced technology and information service, focusing on four key functions: international operation support, research and innovation, information service, and exchange and demonstration. China Mobile Communication Group Southern Base: To form a comprehensive platform for industry collaboration that focuses on six areas for innovation: e-commerce, device innovation, mobile Internet, International transmission bandwidth mobile mail, APP download, and Internet of Things. 1,579G increased to , an increase of International Business Expansion We actively explore the overseas markets to enlarge our overseas business layout. We completed the 21.46% international network layout in the Asia Pacific region, and built international connections across the Pacific Ocean and to the Middle East and Europe. over 2013 ● In Pakistan, CMPak Limited made efforts to promote the development of social informatization, providing integrated informatization solutions of voice, data and application to key industries of government, finance, education, healthcare, etc., and changed the role of basic telecom service provider to Integrated information service provider. ● In Thailand, we made our breakthrough in Southeast Asia with the successful equity participation in True Corporation. ● In Hong Kong, our China Mobile Global Network Centre in Tseung Kwan O was officially in use. As the first overseas submarine cable landing station for all Chinese telecom operators, it would function as a network hub for our international expansion. 39 Promoting Transformational Development To cope with the technology evolution of mobile Internet, cater to changing consumption trends and adjust to industry China Mobile Communications Corporation 2014 Sustainability Report development, China Mobile was committed to pursuing sustainable value growth by actively adapting to the development of mobile Internet, changing our traditional operation models, and exploring emerging business opportunities. Cultivating “the Third Curve” In 2014, We actively cultivated growth along “the Third Curve”. Following the principles of “smart pipeline, open platform, featured business, and friendly interface”, we adjusted our industry layout regarding mobile Internet and Internet of Things and launched a series of new products such as “and-Communication”, “and-Life “ and “and-Entertainment” to accelerate the development of digital services for further sustainable value creation. Current Phase Voice Data Digital Sustainable Values Traffic Services 2G 3G/4G Infrastructure, Systems, Applications... Three Curves: First curve —— Traditional mobile telecom services such as voice calls, SMS and MMS; Second Curve —— Data traffic services; Third Curve —— Digital services such as contents and applications. Wireless Broadband: We actively implemented the Broadband China strategy and invested in 4G based network resources such as wireless transmission network and public Internet, ensuring the speed and performance requirements for all types of applications and services. Smart Devices: Smart devices are important carriers for Internet applications as well as the gateway for consumers to use mobile Internet services. We launched our own-brand smart devices and supported the development of TD-LTE 4G devices with the scale of our procurement. In 2014, we sold over 100 million 4G handsets, which further accelerated the development of 4G applications. Cloud Computing: As the platform for other businesses and services in the mobile Internet era, cloud computing provided centralised, smart and accessible infrastructure resources for enterprises, customers and developers. We continued investing in cloud computing infrastructure. By June 2014, we had already deployed over 15,000 servers and 50,000 virtual machines nationwide. We planned to accelerate its commercialisation and provide cloud computing services to enterprise, government and individual customers. Unified Communications: Unified communications business defined the three core functions for mobile devices, i.e. “New Communications, New Messages, and New Contacts”. We focused our integrated business designing around unified communications, and extended the designing into the fields of daily life, entertainment, business and family life, etc. Meanwhile, we focused on the R&D and commercialisation of unified communications, having completed the testing of multiple VoLTE devices and developed new unified communications devices and solutions, meeting the requirements of “New Communications, New Messages, and New Contacts” in cooperation with a number of device and chip suppliers. 40 Information and Wellbeing Enhancing Personal Wellbeing China Mobile Communications Corporation 2014 Sustainability Report An Information-Connected Home – Fostering Youth Growth Liu Chunyan, a 13-year-old girl, was a sixth grade class monitor in Hansi Primary According to the statistics of Women’s Federation, School in Lankao county of Kaifeng city. Her mother was often ill and her father worked China has over 60 million left-behind children, mostly in away from home, so she had to live with her grandparents from a very early age. Hardship remote areas in poverty. The lack of care and affection from in childhood made her more mature than girls of her age. She longed for knowledge their parents and society often damage their psychological and hoped that she could get in a prestigious college so she would be able to bring a health as they grow up. Many of them have to give up better life for her family. However, her school was located in a remote mountain area with their “college dreams” because of backward education relatively poor conditions compared to the schools in cities. infrastructures. In 2014, we installed the Information Platform for Left-behind Children Care to Partnering with China Working Committee for Caring Chunyan’s school, including the remote video education platform built on our Cloud Video for the Next Generation, the Ministry of Education and other Service technology. On the platform, Liu Chuayan was able to watch teaching videos from government agencies and relevant parties, China Mobile top schools in the cities, and enjoyed the same high-quality education resources as in developed the Comprehensive Information Platform for Lefturban areas. Now, as Liu Chunyan took remote classes each day to learn the knowledge behind Children Care in Beijing to connect parents, teachers that she had been longing for, she felt that her college dream had never been closer. and society together to ensure these children could grow up healthily. Sustainable Values China Mobile Information Platform for Left-behind Children Care Love and Care Platform e-Home Platform Education Platform To give children assistance and To make children feel the warmth of To promote sharing of educational encouragement on life and spirit family with e-Home resources and make long-term plans for with charitable support the children’s growth SMS donation function “e-Home” function “Pass-on Your Love” function Remote education function Support Buddies function Counselling function The China Mobile Information Platform for Left-behind Children Care includes three sub-platforms: Love and Care, e-Home and Education. The platform can perform six major functions including SMS donation, “Pass-on Your Love”, counselling, e-home, support buddies and remote education, which help the left-behind children in everyday life, emotion, education and security. SMS donation: donors can send text messages to assigned number to make direct donation; “Pass-on Your Love”: the left-behind children can publish their own wishes through text or voice messages on the platform. The platform would forward the wishes to volunteers and help matching volunteers and children to make the wishes come true; Counselling: sending regular psychological counselling messages to the children through texts, pictures or voice messages; e-Home: the children and their parents can communicate through the online platform; Support Buddies: allowing the children to make friends with each other and form support groups through the platform to study together and help each other; Remote education: it hosts electronic courses and study guide videos from selective schools around the nation, giving the left-behind children the access to quality education resources. 41 “and-Life” – Information-Enabled Medical Care China Mobile Communications Corporation 2014 Sustainability Report Ms. Xu was a resident of Chaoyang District in Beijing. She was pregnant and needed regular medical checkups at Beijing Obstetrics and Gynecology Hospital. She used to think it should be very convenient as the hospital was only steps away from her home. But to the contrary, it was so difficult to book a doctor appointment that her husband had to get up early, sometimes in midnight, to wait in line for doctor appointment registration. Even if she got the appointment, she had to wait in long lines in hospital hallways instead of at her home nearby as she did not know how long she had to wait. Later, Ms. Xu downloaded “and-Life” medical application at the recommendation of a friend by chance. With this application, she was able to check and make appointment on her mobile phone, and wait at home to take a rest before the phone told her that it was her turn for checkup. She could even download and read her examination results on her phone, saving her husband a trip to the hospital. Ms. Xu found that this medical mobile application was so useful with the time and trouble it helped save. In 2014, China Mobile launched the “and-Life” medical application for local residents, consolidating five major medical functions of real-time doctor availability check, ultrasound and fetal heart rate check, ultrasound exam waiting time check, hospital navigation and examination result inquiry into an innovative application in the field of mobile healthcare. In the future, we will continue improving the “and-Life” medical care service and expand its coverage to include over Sustainable Values ten hospitals in Beijing that offer gynaecology and obstetrics services. We also plan to significantly increase the functions of this service such as access to information of multiple hospitals, mobile payment, medical history inquiry, universal inquiry platform for first-class gynaecology and obstetrics hospitals, accommodation facilities near hospitals and their customer reviews, pharmaceutical information inquiry, and forum for expecting mothers, etc. In Xinjiang, we promoted the smart medical programme 42 Kindergarten Information Service – Caring and “Vehicle Guardian” – Contributing to Safety Communication Platform for Children China Mobile Communications Corporation 2014 Sustainability Report “We have a four-year-old boy. When we dropped him off in the In November 2011, Ms. Zhao purchased an Internet of Things kindergarten each morning, we knew that it would be in evening to see enabled electric bicycle at a Yadi Electric Bicycle dealer in Wujiang city, him again. It would be a lie to say we don’t miss him during daytime. Jiangsu province. It was a product co-developed by China Mobile and the And it made us even more concerned over our son’s conditions at his bicycle producer. The sales person activated the Vehicle Guardian service kindergarten as scandals related to kindergarten frequently appeared in for Ms. Zhao, then she rode the bicycle to visit her sister-in-law who was media.” Ms. Liu worked at a shopping mall. Usually when she returned expecting a baby in hospital. After spending an hour in the hospital, Ms. home in the evening, her baby already fell asleep. She complained that Zhao came out and found that her new bicycle was stolen. She called “Our kid was too young, and it would be impolite for us to directly ask the police immediately and started talking with the nationwide service his teachers about what happened during daytime at the kindergarten”. hotline of Vehicle Guardian through the bicycle dealer with the hope of finding the stolen bicycle. The bicycle was found to be moving along the “Later, the kindergarten teacher recommended a mobile APP to us. With this APP, now we can check our kid’s condition in kindergarten way to Jiaxing city, Zhejiang province. Police followed the positioning at any time on our mobile phone. That is fantastic.” Ms. Liu opened the signal and apprehended the suspect near Qinghe Road in Xiuzhou APP and live video of her child playing with other children appeared on District of Jiaxing city. the screen. Now she frequently turned on this APP to check on her child. “A picture with him makes me energetic!” Vehicle Guardian is a new product based on the Internet of Things with system consisted with GPS module, mobile telecommunication network, the China Mobile developed the Kindergarten Information Service to service platform and built-in devices mounted on bicycles. The device receives address the various problems with kindergarten education based on the positioning signals from GPS satellites or base stations and forwards them to Sustainable Values needs of parents and early childhood education, building an effective our platform. Users could log in their accounts to check the location and trace communication channel between teachers and parents through cooperation of their electric bicycles. A user could also receive alarm messages via SMS with kindergartens. or WeChat messages, as well as sending instruction remotely to track stolen bicycles. Vehicle Guardian service had been adopted in several provinces such as Jiangsu, Fujian and Chongqing. We had been working together with over ten electric bicycle manufacturers to develop Internet of Things enabled Realise electric bicycle products. the sharing of educational Avoid and-Wallet (NFC) – Swiping New Wireless Experience resources and enhance misunderstanding communication and between teachers and cooperation between parents and alleviate Xue Li was a white-collar office worker who worked in the kindergartens the pressure of commercial district of West Nanjing Road in Shanghai. “Before communication arriving at my office, I usually buy my breakfast at the FamilyMart convenience store. I just need to swipe my mobile phone in front of the POS device with the QuickPass logo to make a quick payment for my purchase.” Enable remote video The mobile phone Xue Li used was an NFC-enabled China streaming on phone, Mobile contracted mobile phone. In addition to making payment, it iPad, laptop, PC and could also be used as subway tickets by simply waving it in front of other devices the turnstiles with the China Mobile-SPDB Mobile Pay logo. With its convenience, compatibility, versatile designs, and environmentally friendliness, NFC mobile wallet brings people rich experience of the “smart” life that is easier, richer and more efficient. By adding bank cards, bus passes and membership cards into NFCenabled mobile phone applications, people could use their mobile phones just as using their cards. As of the end of 2014, we had installed equipment in 19 kindergartens We founded the China Mobile E-Commerce Company in in Shandong and built a digital platform with real-time stream video function, Hunan. As of the end of 2014, China Mobile “and-Wallet (NFC)” helping parents and kindergartens communicate more effectively. had already been used by 1.503 million mobile phone owners and supported by 91 applications under four major service categories, including finance, public transit, school and business all-in-one card, and merchant memberships. 43 Promoting Industry Upgrading “Double-Hundred Project” Aiding the Development China Mobile Communications Corporation 2014 Sustainability Report As local economic growth slowed down, private businesses in Quanzhou often faced a series of challenges such as slow cash flow, outdated sales of Private Businesses models, high recruiting cost, insufficient employee care, etc. At the end of 2013, we launched the Double-Hundred Project in cooperation with local government with the theme of “Benefiting Enterprises with Information” in Ding Shuibo, President of the sportswear manufacturer XTEP order to help local private businesses with sales support, information support, (China), had witnessed the taking off of the local economy of Quanzhou 4G remote recruitment, etc. city as a private business owner who grew up in here. However, local private businesses had entered a stage of profound adjustment due to a number of challenges such as overcapacity and the lack of opportunities Challenges for industry upgrades. Close to 200,000 workers left the city, making for Private Assistance from China Mobile labour shortage a big headache for Ding Shuibo. “It has become more Businesses and more difficult for businesses to recruit and retain workers. And our Reducing Provided an e-commerce platform with our channels. We helped recruiting cost keeps increasing.” Ding Shuibo lamented. inventory Fuguiniao, Lilanz, Sanqiang and other over 100 local private businesses in Quanzhou sell their products valued at 300 million However, a remote recruitment event in 2014 enabled Ding yuan in total. Shuibo’s company to hire many workers from outside the province almost at zero cost. His recruiting team communicated with candidates Difficulties in Developed China’s first “Cloud Industry Platform” for the textile “face-to-face” and made hiring decisions from their office through our management and apparel industry in cooperation with local government and 4G Remote Recruitment Platform. Existing workers could download improvement Oracle, now serving over 200 businesses with functions such as the Hiring Assistant application, with which they could easily share basic business support, information management and contact employment information with their friends back home to get air time management. bonus in return. Recruiting Developed the 4G remote recruitment platform and the Hiring Sustainable Values difficulties Assistant mobile APP that was installed by over 6,000 private Ding Shuibo and his management team did not worry about the business employees. Around 200 employees were hired through hiring problem anymore. By the end of 2014, XTEP had already hired our free service. over 100 employees on the Remote Recruitment Platform. Ding Shuibo said that now he would make more efforts to take care of his employees Insufficient Provided a variety of employee care programmes for over and give them a welcoming work environment. employee care 200 private businesses in Quanzhou, such as Safety Plan, Hometown Plan, Care Plan and Study Plan, for more than 500,000 immigrant workers living in the city to serve their communication, safety, child education and travel needs. “ The ‘Double-Hundred Project’ brings our employees with the benefits they really need. For example, the special trainings for immigrant workers helped them visit their family back home before the Chinese New Year, and the free insurance coverage offered them an extra protection. We do hope ” that the project would be lasting. – Ding Shuibo, President of XTEP Corporation 44 Agricultural Information Solutions Transparent Kitchen – Ensuring Food Safety in Restaurants Shi Changsheng was an agricultural technician of the Agricultural China Mobile Communications Corporation 2014 Sustainability Report Technology Promotion Station in Anshi township of Dongliao county, Jilin Wang Xiaohui was the chef of the Yantonglou restaurant, which province. In April 2014, he participated in a local agricultural technology was located in the food street of Taiyuan city, Shanxi province. He became promotion event. They learned something different about mobile phones so excited over the issue of food safety that frequently became news this time – how to make “phone calls” to obtain fertilisation information. headlines in recent years. On one hand, he hoped that his customers It was so easy and Shi Changsheng learned how to do it just by trying twice. Excited about what they had just learned, Shi Changsheng and his would know and trust the sanitary conditions in his restaurant. On the fellow technicians went on field trips to teach farmers the same thing. “We other hand, he was afraid of some picky customers making a scene and will bring what we have learned to the farmers. Each of us will cover ten affecting his business. In April 2014, a 42-inch LCD screen was installed in technology demonstration households and two technology villages. Let’s the dining area, allowing his customers to watch what was going on back go!”Shi Changsheng, still in his excitement, went to Zhongzhi village. He in the kitchen. This move attracted the customers' attention. Whether gathered the farmers and started his demonstration. “Today we will learn when they enjoyed their food or waited to be seated, they were intrigued about the mobile phone positioning service. First, you dial 12582 on your to learn how their food were prepared and served. phone, which is the number for the provincial-level expert platform. Now you can try to follow me…” “After we installed the live monitoring cameras, our cooks became so nervous and they would take extra care to do anything in case that any Right by the side of her land, Ma Guirong immediately learned how mistake they made would be seen by our customers. Previously, they were to make the call. Moments later, she received an SMS message answering not so careful. Now under the live monitoring cameras, we have to put a what she just asked about: the customised fertilisation information for her high standard upon ourselves. It actually helps our business grow as more land. Ma Guirong browsed through the message and felt relieved as her customers trust us.“ problem was solved. “Now I can know what kind of fertilisers to use just by pushing a few buttons on my phone while standing right here. I love it”, she said. In Taiyuan, Shanxi, we developed a Transparent Kitchen monitoring system in cooperation with the local food safety authority. The system platform Sustainable Values was built on our mobile network. With high-definition video cameras and high-speed large-capacity storage device, we were able to show live videos Since 2013, China Mobile started collaborating with Jilin Agricultural of restaurant kitchens to customers, inspectors and restaurant managers, so Information Centre and Jilin Soil and Fertilisation Station on providing soil that restaurant workers would pay more attention to sanitary conditions and testing and formulated fertilisation support in Jilin province. We established ensure food safety. We also developed the Longcheng Restaurants application a soil testing and formulated fertilisation support platform to give remote for customers, which could be used to find restaurants information and check fertilisation guidance to farmers, connecting the farmers with the database of food safety ratings to ensure food safety. Jilin Provincial Soil Testing and Formulated Fertilisation Station and experienced agricultural experts with our mobile positioning service and information service. Watching restaurant kitchen conditions on PCs or mobile phones Customers when choosing restaurants Users dial 12582 from their land Soil nutrient information from the and follow the voice menu database Soil Testing Logging in remote monitoring system with PCs or mobile phones to check on realtime conditions in restaurants. Once a problem is Inspectors Suggested fertiliser formula and spotted, an order form would be issued through the system asking Users hang up and system confirm amount information for one-time for on-site inspection by inspectors positioning data collected fertilisation mode Fertiliser Formulation Suggested fertiliser mixes and Restaurant Logging in the platform with PCs or mobile phones to watch Users receive soil data and expert Workers activities of employees in kitchen application instructions for “base suggestions based on positioning fertiliser + top dressing fertiliser” Fertilisation data Planning mode As of the end of 2014, there were 35 restaurants and 40 schools Users can follow the instructions Fertilisation guidance and fertiliser and purchase the fertilisers needed product information on agricultural and kindergartens that installed the Transparent Kitchen system. In the from trustworthy agricultural Fertiliser Application e-commerce platform future, we will continue to promote this system among restaurants, schools, e-commerce channels kindergartens and canteens to ensure more people can enjoy their food without worries. In 2014, the Soil Testing and Fertilisation Formulation Information Service was launched in 13 counties, cities and districts in Jilin province such as Yushu, Changling, Shuangyang, Dongliao, Tongyu counties and Lvyuan and Erdao districts in Changchun city. It was well received and there were already over 80,000 farmers for this service in Jilin province by the end of 2014. By calculation, with our service, the farmers could reduce their fertiliser usage by 38.6 kg per hectare and increase the per hectare yield by 62.1 kg on average, which was a saving of 75.12 yuan and an increased income of 193.15 yuan respectively per hectare. 45 Green and Future Engagement As national information construction grows rapidly and new technologies and services such as the Internet, cloud computing China Mobile Communications Corporation 2014 Sustainability Report During the 2014 and mobile Internet keep evolving, both the customer base and data traffic have undergone tremendous growth, which has led Energy Conservation to the rapid expansion of telecommunication network scale. Consequently, the telecommunication industry faces a daunting Week campaign, the event homepage on Fetion had challenge of energy conservation and emissions reduction. Meanwhile, our government made a commitment in 2014 to ceil the recorded over 360,000 carbon dioxide emissions before 2030. Energy conservation and emissions reduction will be an obligation for all enterprises and clicks, while the event individuals. It is our belief that sustainable development has to be green, and a better future arises from greener operation. We are mobile APP had more not only making continuous improvement on environmental management to reduce our environmental impact, but also actively than 100,000 downloads. leveraging the enabling effect of information technology in the field of environmental management and energy conservation to The 2014 China Mobile achieve a greener manufacture process for industries and a greener life for everyone. 100 Energy Conservation Champions received nearly 480,000 votes and Reducing Environmental Impact almost 130,000 people participated in the Energy Conservation Knowledge Environmental Management System Contest. In accordance with international and national standards on Energy Management System, we keep optimising the “Plan-Do-Check-Action” closed-loop environmental management system (EMS) by focusing on energy management and have achieved transformation from objective to process. ● Formulated Guidelines on 2014 Green Action Plan, laying out the overall objectives and specific targets for the year. Plan ● Compiled the 2015-2017 Energy Conservation and Emissions Reduction Plan, laying out the goals, plans and measures for the next three years. Sustainable Values ● Held “Green Action Plan” trainings, inviting experts lecturing on national and industrial macro-policies, power-saving practices with communications equipment, air conditioning and power supplies, and new technology pilots, etc. ● Initial issue of China Mobile Compilation on Energy Conservation and Emissions Reduction, which compiled 135 copies of the latest Do national and industrial regulations and standards, and our own policies, guidelines, standards and protocols regarding energy conservation and emissions reduction. ● Established our communication platform for one issue every other month and promoted the best practices of our provincial subsidiaries on energy conservation and emissions reduction using video conferencing for sharing. ● Incorporated indicators for energy conservation and emissions reduction into our operation KPI and developed the detailed 2014 appraisal method covering five quantitative indicators and multiple key measures. Different targets were set for provincial subsidiaries depending on Check their respective conditions. ● Completed inspections in 31 provincial subsidiaries and on-site check of 310 base stations and 124 equipment rooms in 91 cities. ● Recognised provincial subsidiaries with outstanding performance in energy conservation and emissions reduction. ● Optimised the monthly indicators system to benchmark on monthly data on energy consumption and conservation measures, increases in Action energy consumption and target completion status; published a monthly bulletin company-wide to report the above data of each provincial subsidiary to ensure the implementation of energy-saving measures and that they meet their performance targets. We encourage qualified provincial subsidiaries to conduct EMS certification. By the end of 2014, Zhejiang Company, Shanghai Company and Guangdong Company had completed their ISO 14001 certifications. Beijing Company is expected to acquire the certification in 2015. Energy Management System Energy Consumption Monitoring: We promoted the installment of intelligent electricity metres in our provincial subsidiaries. By the end of 310 million yuan invested in 2014 for Green Action Plan 2014, we had installed the remote power monitoring system in 391,000 base 391,000 stations, allowing us to collect real-time energy consumption data remotely. base stations equipped with Energy Audit: We engaged TÜV SÜD, a third-party auditor, to audit on our energy conservation and emissions reduction results in 2014. Based remote power monitoring system on a comprehensive assessment to the Company, they focused on auditing our Beijing Company, Zhejiang Company and Hubei Company and conducted document review on a total of 8,500 base stations and thorough examinations on 85 base stations, 15 equipment buildings, 15 office buildings and 30 sales outlets. 14.6% decrease in overall energy consumption per unit of information flow compared with 2013 46 Green Operation Network Building Green Data Centre China Mobile Communications Corporation 2014 Sustainability Report ● Energy-saving Technology: Deployed over 11.66 million intelligent power-saving frequency carriers over the entire 2G/3G network, and With the rapid development of mobile Internet, cloud computing added 47,000 no-room base stations; and big data, the data centre industry entered into a stage of ● Energy-saving Transformation: Deployed nearly 140,000 sets of massive constructions. Our Design Institute had carried out a series natural cooling equipment for base stations, adjusted the upper limit of technological researches, pilot testing, planning and construction of base station ambient temperature to 30 and 35 degrees Celsius, practises. During the construction of data centres, we strictly followed and completed energy-saving transformation of nearly 230,000 base the requirements of “large scale, low cost, and green technology” and station air conditioners; China TieTong Telecommunications Corporation had established a mature model for green data centre construction. optimized the airflow structure of core machine rooms and improved cool air utilization efficiency. In Harbin, we piloted on new equipment room designs. By utilising our independently developed technologies such as direct fresh ● Alternative Energy Base Station: We utilised alternative energies in air conditioning and heating pipe air conditioning, direct or indirect resource-rich areas. By the end of 2014, we had constructed 13,000 utilisation of natural cooling sources, dust removal and desulfidation, alternative energy base stations in total, among which over 9,200 base stations were using solar energy, equivalent to annual power saving of 336V DC power supply, and lithium batteries, our average annual PUE 56 million kWh. (Power Use Efficiency) fell to the range of 1.25~1.35 for our data centres, far below the national average 1.73 for newly constructed data centres. Services We also reduced our energy consumption per kW communication load and our carbon emissions both by 30%~40%. We promoted e-bills which could save nearly 190 million sheets of A4-sized paper each month, and green package which reduced timber use Sustainable Values by over 100,000 cubic metres, equivalent to reducing the cut of 500,000600,000 trees. Devices We implemented a mobile device trade-in programme. Customers could come to our sales outlets and apply for device trade-in. After they have completed the value assessment at our Device Trade-in Platform, the amount would be deducted from the price of the new devices they bought. Office Buildings To enhance the management of daily energy and water uses in office facilities, we formulated the Staff Energy Conservation Code for Office Facilities and implemented strict temperature settings for air-conditioning and heating systems; advocated for green workplace habits to reduce waste, such as conserving water, turning off office lights before leaving, and printing and photocopying on two sides; set the target of zero growth in average water consumption for management facilities, and took measures including rainwater recycle and reclaimed water reuse to reduce water consumption. The first phase of data centre for China Mobile International Information Port In Hong Kong, we implemented a Green Partner Programme in cooperation with Ricoh, donating funds equal to our office paper consumption to Friends of Earth for tree planting events. We also launched a Print Less competition for three months, which resulted in a 16.4% reduction in the printing expense during the period. In 2014, online business volume 9 of our self-operating electronic Mobile service platform APP activated channels exceeded on 200 40 million active users billion yuan million mobile devices per month 47 Contributing to Green Life Providing Green Information Solutions China Mobile Communications Corporation 2014 Sustainability Report We actively promote the application of innovative 4G, mobile Internet and IoT technologies in environmental areas. On one hand, we promote informatisation to push the reform of traditional industries to save energy. On the other hand, we innovate on information applications for environmental protection such as environment monitoring and management. Remote Indoor Temperature Control In most northern areas, centralised heating in winter is a basic social service. Due to different pipelines and heating devices, the indoor temperatures are often either too high or too low. To avoid complaints, heating companies often choose to power up the heating source, which led to excessive carbon emission and energy waste as well as air pollution. In Heilongjiang, we developed a remote indoor temperature control system for heating industry. Wireless temperature metres transmit realtime indoor temperature readings to the heating company for monitoring, which provides an important indicator for the efficient operation of boilers and heat exchange stations. Abnormal temperatures will also be dealt with promptly, allowing the heating company to achieve on-demand heat distribution. By the end of 2014, there were already 30,000 households in the province which installed the system. Based on the energy saving estimate of 5%, this system could help saving heating cost equal to 4.26 million yuan and reducing carbon emission by 16,000 tonnes per year. Sustainable Values Comprehensive Water Management Information System Water is essential for life and health. We applied information technologies such as mobile Internet, IoT and cloud computing to develop new water management solutions to cope with water related challenges such as water shortage, water pollution and deterioration of water ecology. In Zhejiang, we had invested 350 million yuan cumulatively in a comprehensive water management information system with multiple approaches to control water pollution, flood, draining waterlogging, ensuring water supply and conservation. ● Helping the government to set up Automatic Inspection Stations in 66 counties and cities to monitor water quality in source area for drinking water supply Water Supply ● Drinking water quality indicators of nearly 90% of the cities ● Flood Alarm Security monitored met the standards System: Sent over eight million alert Flood Prevention messages to residents ● Online Pollution Monitoring System in mountain areas monitors the pollution sources of 1,500 ● Rainfall Collection Water enterprises in the province Platform: Providing Pollution Control ● River Inspector Information Service data support for Comprehensive Water started serving 200 river inspectors flood forecast Management with its first round of deployment, Information and completed integration with the System comprehensive management system ● Urban Waterlogging Emergency Response System was deployed in Water ● Campus Intelligent Water Conservation coastal cities prone to be affected by Conservation Flood System: Deployed in seven universities extreme weather conditions such as Drainage and achieved a 16% reduction in water Ningbo and Taizhou consumption ● Urban Overpass Intersection Water ● IoT Platform for Intelligent Agricultural Level Monitor System: Innovating on Machinery: Serving 1,300 agricultural new ways to prevent waterlogging cooperatives 48 In 2014, our M2M Company developed an Energy Management Platform for Public Buildings including various energy saving sub-systems to control central air conditioning, data centre Free Cooling and lighting, to provide energy saving services to different buildings, such as tall buildings, equipment rooms and base stations, and scientific measuring methods and data for China Mobile Communications Corporation 2014 Sustainability Report contracted energy management projects to evaluate energy saving effects accurately. In 2014, the platform was first piloted in base stations in Xinjiang with an average energy saving ratio of 36.34%. Environmental Advocacy Activities Faced with the increasingly severe environmental challenges, China Mobile launched the “Green Boxes” campaign in 2005, putting green recycle boxes in our sales outlets to recollect mobile phones, batteries and other accessories. All items collected went to qualified disposal companies for reuse or safe disposal. In 2014, we continued organising young volunteers to carry out community and campus events to raise the awareness of hazardous e-waste, and recycle mobile phone batteries and components for effective disposal. Our provincial subsidiaries carried out such activities to engage more people, so as to raise the environmental awareness among volunteers and the public. During the Energy Conservation Week event, we launched a comprehensive public awareness raising campaign under the theme of “Fulfilling Green Dreams with You”. All of our digital and information channels, such as Fetion, company Weibo, official 10086 website, 139 mailbox, Mobile Markets, internal OA system and China Mobile Labs, were used to engage the public. We also combined the online campaigns with an offline campaign, “Green Box by Your Side”, in communities and universities to promote the concept of green communication. We also developed a mobile APP for the Energy Conservation Week campaign, through which we engaged our employees with a variety of interactive events such as the Energy Saver contest, energy conservation and emissions reduction knowledge contest, and the “Green and Action” event. Sustainable Values In Tianjin, Hebei, Shanghai, Henan, Hainan, Chongqing, etc., we organised various Green Box activities 49 China Mobile Communications Corporation 2014 Sustainability Report Stakeholder Expectations Our Approaches Our 2014 Achievements Our 2015 Efforts Sustainable Values ● Innovating and achieving ● Applying strategic ● Mobile data traffic revenue ● Focusing on “paying third-wave growth by and organisational accounted for 25.9% attention to best products, tapping the mobile Internet transformation, enhancing of the revenue from serving merchants, opportunity business specialisation and telecommunications services, developing new customers”, infrastructure for value revealing an obvious driver to build “and-Life“ as the ● Offering innovative information applications creation ability impact on data services influential brand serving local to enable better and living areas with 120 million ● Innovating on expanding ● Official launch of the MIGU more convenient lives digital services, offering onCompany, the Online Services customers for individuals and faster demand applications for Company for specialisation ● To continuously implement information transformation social development and operation Green Action Plan and for traditional industries industry upgrading reduce overall energy ● Promoted on “Mobile Changes Life” by providing consumption per unit of ● Green operation to reduce ● Intensifying EMS certification, negative impacts on energy management system innovative services in information flow environment audit and energy audit alignment with social ● To fully deploy the energy demands such as elderly management information ● Offering green products and ● Exploring environmental services to help customers friendly green solutions to caring, mobile health and platform and the public protect encourage the public to food safety environment and eco-system protect the environment ● The overall energy consumption per unit of information flow for 2014 dropped by 13.7% over 2013 ● Awarded by the international carbon emission organisation authority, CDP (China), for one of four Sustainability Leadership Enterprise Models in mainland China Sustainability Performance Summary 50 Economic Performance Market Presence Corporate Governance We abide by relevant labour laws and regulations, and our employees’ wages China Mobile Communications Corporation 2014 Sustainability Report are above minimum wages of locations where we operate. The board of directors, board of supervisors and executives are responsible for respective managements, which forms an effective and balanced corporate Indirect Economic Impacts governance structure between decision makers, supervisors and executives. The board of directors always represents the interests of shareholders, aims Promoting Employment and Entrepreneurship at the target of enhance China Mobile's competence, and be responsible for strategic leading, decision making and risk elimination. Our overall governance In 2014, we generated more than 2.6 million job opportunities with our quality remains improving. operations. So far, our board of directors is composed by seven members: Mr. Xi We launched Mobile Market (MM) in August 2009, aiming to foster Guohua as chairman, Mr. Li Yue as directors and general manager, Mr. Ding an open, collaborative and win-win mobile Internet value chain for Zhongzhi, Mr. Yu Ning, Mr. Ma Si Hang Frederick, Mr. Tong Bao'an as outside developers and service providers. Based on the MM platform, we launched directors, and Mr. Li Xiuchuan as staff director. Mobile Market’s Youth Business Start-up Plan in August 2010 to provide entrepreneurship incubators for young developers. Internal Control: In compliance with Section 404 of the U.S. SOX Act of 2002, we established a systematic and standard internal control system. Indicators 2012 2013 2014 This system is led by risk management and integrated with our business, and explicitly defines the responsibilities of each business unit. Cumulative funding for entrepreneurship support (10,000 yuan) 853 1,308 4,207 Financial Performance Number of registered developers in MM (10,000) 378.2 384.5 391.0 Cumulative application distribution in MM (100 million) 10.73 41.97 93.07 Sustainability Performance Summary Indicators 2012 2013 2014 Operating revenue (billion yuan) 611.2 661.9 662.5 Infrastructure Construction 1 Mobile data traffic revenue (billion yuan) 66.5 105.4 150.6 In 2014, we continued carrying out the Village Connect Project to provide Taxes paid (billion yuan) 73.9 87.9 72.3 communication and information services to remote rural areas and bridge the digital divide. Note: 1. Data of China Mobile Limited Indicators 2012 2013 2014 Cumulative number of remote villages covered 111,107 118,236 121,243 Cumulative number of administrative villages with broadband service 11,213 20,544 27,995 Cumulative number of natural villages with mobile phone service 65,530 72,659 75,666 Cumulative number of rural schools with broadband service – 1,767 2,167 Number of sales channels in rural areas (10,000) 69.5 65.4 60.2 Number of Rural Information Service users (10,000) 4,300 6,029 6,266 Cumulative number of rural information sent via Rural Information Network (100 million) 103.4 217.4 350.2 51 We continuously supported the poverty alleviation and development, Indicators 2013 2014 carrying out assistance and alleviation projects in Xizang, Qinghai, Xinjiang, Heilongjiang and other provinces. In 2014, we invested 40.43 million yuan into Number of contracted service providers 227 120 China Mobile Communications Corporation 2014 Sustainability Report these projects. Percentage of outstanding level SMS partners 11.8 11.7 Percentage of outstanding level MMS partners 10.4 13.3 Information Society Indicators 2012 2013 2014 Environmental Performance 1 Number of M2M (machine to machine) devices (million) 22.45 32.00 43.38 Overall Performance Number of 12580 Medical Appointment dialings (10,000) 1,100 1,200 1,300 We have been implementing the “Green Action Plan” since 2007, which emphasised on energy conservation and emissions reduction. In 2014, we Note: invested a total of 310 million yuan into the “Green Action Plan”. 1. Number of activated M2M devices by the end of the year. We revised historical data according to the new data definition. Energy Procurement Practices In 2014, we released the Inspection Approach for Energy Conservation We apply strict qualification pre-assessment and after-assessment to and Emissions Reduction and instructed our provincial subsidiaries to conduct verify qualification of potential suppliers. Regarding issues that have been self-inspections annually. We also conducted special inspections for 31 identified, we would evaluate how serious they were, then ask for clarification, provincial subsidiaries, and on-site inspections for 310 base stations and rectification or cancellation of qualification accordingly. 124 equipment rooms in 91 cities. Problems found during inspections were disclosed company-wide. We also suggested corrective measures to ensure the Sustainability Performance Summary Indicators 2013 2014 smooth implementation of our various energy saving initiatives. Our electricity consumption per unit of business volume decreased by 31%, and our overall Number of suppliers 7,037 6,751 energy consumption per unit of information flow decreased by 13.7% Number of first-level suppliers 455 500 compared to 2013. Percentage of first-level local suppliers1 100 100 Number of second-level suppliers 6,829 6,605 Energy Consumption 2 Percentage of second-level local suppliers 47.65 44.8 Indicators 2012 2013 2014 Number of assessments on first-level suppliers3 814 1,502 Percentage of assessed suppliers in all confirmed first-level suppliers 100 100 Total electricity consumption (100 GWhs) 148.9 156.6 176.8 Number of suppliers been discontinued cooperation because Natural gas consumption (million m3) 9.0 7.2 7.3 of quality problems found during on-site assessments 0 0 LPG consumption (100 tonnes) 7.3 7.1 5.1 Coal gas consumption (million m3) 1.5 1.2 1.1 Note: Coal consumption (10,000 tonnes) 2.4 1.8 1.1 1. Percentage of first-level local suppliers means proportion of domestic Gasoline consumption (million litres) 151.1 152.6 142.1 suppliers (registered in mainland China) in all suppliers for the first-level Diesel fuel consumption (million litres) 24.2 24.1 22.0 procurements. We did not conduct any international bidding projects in Purchased heating costs (million yuan) 151.80 155.81 150.81 2014, thus did not have any international suppliers. 2. Percentage of second-level local suppliers means proportion of suppliers registered in a province for the second-level procurement of that particular China Mobile provincial subsidiary. 3. Number of assessments on first-level suppliers refers to the number of supplier assessments carried out by our Procurement Shared Service Centre, covering both suppliers that won their bids and those that did not. This number does not cover second-level procurements. 52 Alternative Energy Consumption Emissions Indicators 2012 2013 2014 In 2014, we continued optimising our energy conservation and China Mobile Communications Corporation 2014 Sustainability Report emission reduction management, and set up a rudimentary carbon emissions Alternative energy base stations – total 9,699 11,863 12,776 management system. Our efforts in energy conservation, emissions reduction Solar energy 7,627 8,501 9,219 and responding to climate change had won us the title of “Sustainability Wind energy 600 589 604 Leadership Enterprise Model” by the international carbon emission organisation Solar and wind energy 1,366 1,765 1,931 authority CDP (China) as one of the only four domestic companies. Others 106 1,008 1,022 CO2 emissions reduction from alternative Indicators 2012 2013 2014 energy base stations (10,000 tonnes) 3.2 3.9 4.3 CO2 emissions (million tonnes) 11.63 12.22 13.581 Carbon emission intensity（tCO2e/10,000 yuan） 0.190 0.185 0.205 Water Note: We encouraged the use of recycled water in our operations, and arranged property engineers to inspect water supply system and equipment 1. Emission factor for electricity consumption drew reference from 2014 regularly to prevent leakage. During the construction of our data centre, we Baseline Emission Factors for Regional Power Grids in China published reduced the consumption of 100,000 tonnes of municipal water per month by by the National Development and Reform Commission of China. The reusing reclaimed water and used underground water. Our total water usage other emission factors drew reference from IPCC. only increased by 2.4% comparing with 2013 even with large increases in the numbers of our base stations, data centres and office buildings. Effluents and Waste Indicators 2012 2013 2014 In 2014, 100% of the waste water generated in our operation entered Sustainability Performance Summary into sewer system, and no non-compliance was found regarding effluents. Total amount of water used (million tonnes) 32.81 33.11 33.92 We comprehensively conducted the “Green Boxes” environmental During the reporting period, we did not find any event which had protection programme to raise environmental awareness. We had promoted significantly influenced water source areas. used mobile devices and accessories recycle through our Old Phone Trade-in programme. Biodiversity Indicators 2012 2013 2014 We strictly conduct project evaluation and approval according to relevant provisions regarding base stations located in nature reserves. In 2014, we did Discarded lead acid batteries (10,000 Ahs) 12,808 8,698 16,370 not find any species which were materially affected by our operating activities. Lead acid batteries recycled through professional channels (10,000 Ahs) 12,808 8,698 16,370 53 Waste Recycled by Qualified Third-party Environmental Compliance Indicators Weight Value Weight Value In 2014, we had no incident of non-compliance with regulations China Mobile Communications Corporation 2014 Sustainability Report (Tonnes) (10,000 yuan) (Tonnes) (10,000 yuan) concerning the environment. (2013) (2013) (2014) (2014) Network Wastes 31,528 16,322 32,499 15,992 Social Performance Acid batteries 16,462 5,998 19,916 9,674 Communication Employment equipment 11,264 7,929 6,797 3,950 Cables 1,645 1,169 2,153 1,158 Employee Age Structure Others 2,157 1,226 3,633 1,210 Office Wastes 842 1,401 1,631 976 Indicators 2012 2013 2014 Electronic equipment 641 692 1,036 743 Total number of employees 222,220 231,546 274,347 Other wastes 201 709 595 233 Percentage of employees under 30-year-old 25.52 25.12 35.24 Devices 13 55 50 53 Percentage of employees between Total 32,383 17,778 34,180 17,021 30and 50-year-old 67.34 67.36 59.94 Percentage of employees above 50-year-old 7.14 7.52 4.82 Green Office We provide employees with insurance and welfare coverages in We encourage our employees to use IT solutions such as video conference accordance with labour laws and regulations. equipment and our Integrated Information Network to avoid unnecessary business travels and reduce our carbon footprint. Employee Turnover Sustainability Performance Summary Indicators 2012 2013 2014 Indicators 2012 2013 2014 Video conference usage at group level (times) 988 942 851 Total number of newly hired employees 8,581 7,555 19,726 Integrated Information Network visits Number of newly hired female employees 3,586 3,026 9,664 (10,000 person-times) 2.0 1.8 1.2 Number of newly hired male employees 4,995 4,529 10,062 Daily call duration on Integrated Information Total number of resigned employees 2,873 2,322 6,443 Network (10,000 minutes) 60 49 24 Number of resigned female employees 1,246 867 2,455 Daily instant message sent on Integrated Number of resigned male employees 1,627 1,455 3,988 Information Network (10,000) 6.7 6.0 4.8 Total number of dismissed employees 76 65 436 Supplier Environmental Assessment Number of dismissed female employees 50 31 164 Number of dismissed male employees 26 34 272 We compiled supplier certification templates for 19 product supplier categories, covering 35 categories of products in first-level centralised We attach great importance to protecting the reproductive rights of procurement. These templates give specific requirements on our suppliers’ female employees, fully respecting their rights to take maternity leave. In environmental performance, and encourage suppliers to pass ISO 14001 2014, 100% of our female employees at our headquarters returned to work certification. after taking maternity leave. 54 Workplace Health and Safety Training Hours In 2014, we organised a series of workplace safety inspections companyIndicators 2012 2013 2014 China Mobile Communications Corporation 2014 Sustainability Report wide and issued three safety management regulations covering our equipment Average training time per employee (hours) 59.1 61.2 57.5 rooms, base stations and sales outlets. We carried out 1,130 safety emergency drills that were participated by 86% of our employees. We developed and Average training time per senior management piloted centralised safety monitoring and management system in our Shanxi (hours) 58.5 60.1 68.4 and Tianjin Subsidiaries. Meanwhile, we provided our employees with regular Average training time per mid-level health checkups and 92% of our employees conducted the checkups in 2014. management (hours) 62.0 61.7 56.6 Average training time per general employee There was no incident of workplace safety or death in line of duty in (hours) 56.7 61.8 57.5 2014. Diversity and Equal Opportunity Training and Education Gender Composition We attach great importance to employee training to help our employees improve their capabilities. Indicators 2012 2013 2014 Training Expense Percentage of female employees 40.08 40.92 47.05 Percentage of female employees at senior Indicators 2012 2013 2014 management level1 17.92 18.17 17.60 Training expense per employee (yuan) 2,564 2,632 2,429 Note: Employees Trained Sustainability Performance Summary 1. Senior management refers to management staff at vice president level or above at provincial subsidiaries and management staff at department Indicators 2012 2013 2014 general manager level or above at headquarters. Number of persons trained (10,000 person-times) 98.3 98.9 116.8 Ethnic Proportion Number of senior management trained (person-times) 438 686 734 Indicators 2012 2013 2014 Number of mid-level management trained (person-times) 9,306 15,126 12,327 Ethnic minorities as a percentage of total employees 6.33 6.92 6.86 Number of general employees trained (10,000 person-times) 97.3 97.9 115.5 We actively support local employment in all operating locations. For Percentage of employees who have attended example, the local employee rate of our Hong Kong Company was about diploma courses 5.24 4.13 0.85 96.7% and 99.5% for all employees and management staff respectively in 2014. Supplier Labour Practice Assessment Our supplier certification templates contain specific requirements on labour management and health and safety management for suppliers and encourage all suppliers to pass SA8000 certification. 55 Human Rights Philanthropy and Volunteering We are a member of the United Nations Global Compact and we support China Mobile Charity Foundation donated 38.3 million yuan in 2014. Our China Mobile Communications Corporation 2014 Sustainability Report the UNGC Ten Principles. We fully respect and protect human rights and forbid subsidiaries also conducted philanthropy and volunteering activities taking into any involvement with human rights abuses and violations. account their local community needs. We actively protect the rights of employees to participate in corporate Indicators 2012 2013 2014 affairs and express themselves. We organise labour unions and employee representative conferences and keep on improving their procedures. For the Number of registered employee volunteers (10,000 person) 9.00 9.85 11.52 employee representative conferences, major issues concerning the interests of employees or major company activities need to be presented to employee Hours of employee volunteer services (10,000 hours) 33.0 52.2 46.05 representatives and voted on. Our union participation rate was 100% for Cumulative number of children received free all regular employees and 98% for all contracted workers, who were either congenital heart disease screenings 12,547 17,788 23,840 a union member of their direct employers or of China Mobile. Moreover, Cumulative number of assisted children in poverty employee grievances, suggestions and feedback are collected through who suffered from congenital heart disease 593 1,341 2,260 channels such as CEO Mailbox, the Office of Letters and Calls, labour union, Cumulative number of China Mobile Libraries built 1,694 1,910 2,110 etc. and handled timely and properly. Cumulative number of multimedia classrooms built 674 880 1,070 We have conducted collective wage negotiations in our headquarters and Cumulative number of principals of rural primary and middle schools trained 48,205 59,000 70,539 all subsidiaries. We forbid the hiring of child labour or forced labour, as well as any discrimination against age, ethnic background, gender, etc. Anti-corruption Besides protecting employee rights, we also take efforts to encourage our suppliers to protect their employee rights. We revised the Supplier In 2014, we carried out inspections over our Device Company, Fujian Management Methods and developed the supplier certification template to Company and other four business units, enhanced our supervision of Sustainability Performance Summary require human right certification from our suppliers. We also conducted labour management staff, and implemented 357 projects of efficiency supervision. practice assessment during first-level centralised procurement process. We did not receive any human right complaint report in 2014. Indicators 2012 2013 2014 Anti-Corruption Eduction programme organised Local Communities (times) 3,908 3,071 Attendance of anti-corruption education and Emergency Communication Support trainings (person-times) 471,200 428,146 461,137 Number of confirmed and disciplined corruption Indicators 2012 2013 2014 cases 16 16 54 Number of employees dismissed and disciplined Number of emergency support 5,167 4,005 3,126 for corruption 17 16 87 Major political or economic events support 4,218 3,416 2,728 Significant natural disasters support 706 491 350 Significant accidents or catastrophic events support 205 85 31 Public health incidents support 8 2 3 Public safety incidents support 30 11 14 Number of emergency support vehicles deployed 6,860 5,127 6,135 Number of emergency support equipment installed 47,544 50,741 33,421 Persons involved in emergency support (person-times) 330,515 465,443 314,212 56 Anti-competitive Behaviours Customer Privacy Protection We regulate our marketing approaches during special promotions, such In 2014, we fully promoted the Vault Mode to realise strict control of China Mobile Communications Corporation 2014 Sustainability Report as campus promotions and holiday promotions, when irregular competitive sensitive customer data following the principles of “multiple authorisation behaviours were liable to happen. For example, we set up mechanisms to and double checking for key operations”. Moreover, we anonymise customer effectively regulate campus marketing and ensure our provincial subsidiaries identification data and implement third-party monitoring to form closed-loop stick with rational competitive behaviours. As a result, there was no major protection of customer identity information. We provided about 400,000 incident during last year. person-times of employee trainings related to customer data security and privacy protection. In 2014, we were not charged with any lawsuit for anti-competitive behaviours. In 2014, we did not have any major incidents of customer data leakage. Providing Diversified Services Customer Satisfaction We conduct company-wide customer satisfaction survey, collecting over Indicators 2012 2013 2014 300,000 samples nationwide each year and using the survey data to evaluate Number of customers1 (million) 710 767 807 the business performance of provincial subsidiaries as well as improve our customer satisfaction. In 2014, our comprehensive customer satisfaction ratio Number of countries and regions covered by was 78.36%. In Pakistan, CMPak Limited was listed first among the industry in GSM roaming service 237 242 248 a customer satisfaction survey and achieved The Most Trusted Brand Award Number of countries and regions covered by given by the Pakistan Consumers Association. data roaming service 188 197 208 Number of countries and regions covered by Indicators 2012 2013 2014 4G roaming service 71 Complaint rate per million customers (cases) 31.2 32.3 30.7 Sustainability Performance Summary Note: Number of reported spam messages handled (10,000 times) 344 435 195 1. Data of China Mobile Limited Compliance Network Quality and Reliability We formulate strict administrative provisions and require all operations In 2014, the Company implemented a comprehensive quality guarantee to abide by laws and regulations. In 2014, our Mudanjiang Branch Company system, especially for 4G (TD-LTE) network, to promote network upgrade and was fined 100,000 yuan by Heilongjiang Communications Authority for optimisation. Our 2G and 3G network quality remains well, 68.87% of sample unauthorised offering of free services to customers, and for some of its agents TD-LTE sites achieved a download speed higher than 10Mbps, successful offering value-added services and billing customers without customer consent. connection rate of CSFB was 97.65%, the end-to-end 4G customer perception We have fully cooperated with the investigation and adopted appropriate was improved greatly. disciplinary measures to the responsible persons to prevent similar incidents from happening again. Indicators 2012 2013 2014 1 Successful connection rate of GSM network （%） 99.26 99.12 98.57 Successful connection rate of 3G network（%） 98.90 98.53 97.49 Call drop rate of GSM network2（%） 0.48 0.43 0.46 Call drop rate of 3G network（%） 0.29 0.21 0.22 Note: 1. The successful connection rate is test data; 2. The call drop rate is annual average data derived from the network management system. Stakeholder Commentary 57 Change for the Changes, Ready for the New Normal China Mobile Communications Corporation 2014 Sustainability Report The year of 2014 has been marked as the beginning of “The New Normal” of Chinese economy. Corporate social responsibility in China has been transforming into a “new normal” way as well after years of efforts from the government, enterprises and organisations. The CSR new normal means that sustainability would become a core concept for social responsibility practices; CSR would play an important role in corporate transformation; CSR would be transformed from a recommendation to a legal requirement and its scope would be expanded from domestic to global; CSR communication would develop diversely and transparently in a web-based form; public demands and expectations for CSR would be increasing constantly. How does a central enterprise, which is essentially the backbone of Chinese economy development by definition, adjust itself for the CSR new normal? China Mobile presented its answer in this 2014 sustainability report: change. Economic growth patterns have changed. As we see in this report, China Mobile created a 4G miracle at year one of 4G operation that it put in use 720,000 base stations and served more than 90 million 4G customers. The company revealed its resolution on change by actively responding to industry traditional value decline, turning to data-oriented operation, and extending the blue ocean of digital services through specialisation. These changes have been helping the company to create value. In 2014, China Mobile ranked up to 55th in the Fortune top 500, and was listed in the Dow Jones Sustainability Indices (DJSI) for the seventh consecutive year. Sustainability Performance Summary Social service patterns have changed. In 2014, China Mobile has been focusing not only on strategic transformation and innovation, but also on stakeholder demands and key social issues, and making “changes” on inclusive development for both stakeholder and society under the framework of sustainability. This report reveals the way China Mobile had been creating value to serve the society through strict anti-corruption and compliance management, targeted customer rights protection, shared growth and responsibility with value chain, efforts on closing development and digital divide for remote areas and special groups, and investments on environmental protection and philanthropy. China Mobile proved that corporates are cells to the society, corporates have the same interests as stakeholders and they must work together to achieve the real sustainability. With the rising of digital services, China Mobile has explored many practices in fields including mobile health, remote education, smart home and smart elderly-nursing, which brought convenience, efficiency and security to stakeholders, and created new opportunities for its services and markets. Communication patterns have changed. China Mobile has been perfecting its management tools and processes as integrating CSR into corporate management and transformation. The company established a comprehensive and systematic stakeholder communication/feedback mechanism to accept supervision, respond questions, implement operation changes, and examine social innovation solutions consistently. Although what China Mobile has achieved is not perfect, sustainability and transparent communication would be the key for the company to “change for the changes, and ready for the new normal”. All of these are exactly what SASAC has been expecting to see as we encouraged and promoted CSR in central enterprises since 2008: strategically implementing CSR to create greater economic value while meeting social demands; maximizing integrated value for economy, society and environment to reinforce competitiveness and influence for Chinese enterprises. I sincerely hope that China Mobile and more central enterprises would lead such a revolution and become CSR models. SASAC will continue to work with all parties for continuous guidance of CSR for state-owned enterprises, and facilitation of the new normal. Hou Jie Deputy Director, Research Bureau State-owned Assets Supervision and Administration Commission of the State Council Report Rating 58 Rating Report on China Mobile Communications Corporation 2014 Sustainability Report China Mobile Communications Corporation 2014 Sustainability Report Upon the request of China Mobile Communications Corporation, the CSR Research Center of Economics Division of Chinese Academy of Social Sciences (hereinafter “Center”) invited experts from China CSR Report Rating Committee to form a rating team. The team rated China Mobile Communications Corporation 2014 Sustainability Report (hereinafter “the Report”) as follows: 1. Rating Criteria Chinese Corporate Social Responsibility Report Preparation Guide (CASS-CSR 3.0) and Rating Standard on Corporate Social Responsibility Reporting for Chinese Enterprises (2014). 2. Rating Process (1) Interviewing the department in charge of CSR of China Mobile Communications Corporation; (2) Reviewing relevant information used in the preparation of the China Mobile Communications Corporation CSR report on site; (3) Evaluating the process of sustainability report management of China Mobile Communications Corporation and the information disclosed by the Report. 3. Rating results Process Management ( ★★★★★ ) Report Rating The Department of Development Strategy took the lead and formed the reporting team, while senior management involved in implementation and report review. The reporting team identified stakeholders, conducted surveys and interviews about stakeholders’ opinions, and defined material issues based on stakeholder feedbacks, relevant government policies and industry benchmarking results. The Company also prepares to launch the Report with a press conference and makes the Report available in Chinese and English, and in print and electronic versions. The Report has a super excellent process management performance. Materiality ( ★★★★★ ) The Report systematically discloses key issues from the telecommunications service sector, including “ensuring network stability”, “product and service innovation”, “tariff optimization”, “respond to customer complaint”, “customer information protection”, “narrowing digital divide”, “EMF management”, etc. The Report has a super excellent materiality performance. Completeness ( ★★★★★ ) The Report discloses 92.0% of the core indicators of the telecommunication service sector in aspects of “Sustainability Strategy and Management”, “Responsible Business”, “Inclusive Growth”, “Sustainable Value”. The Report has a super excellent completeness performance. Balance ( ★★★★★ ) The Report discloses negative indicators such as “complaint rate per million customers”, “call drop rate of 3G network”, “employee turnover rate”, etc. A case of customer right infringement was described of the cause and improvements. The Report has a super excellent balance performance. Comparability ( ★★★★★ ) The Report discloses historical data of over 70 key performance indicators for three consecutive years such as “operating revenue”, “number of alternative energy base stations”, “total number of employees”, “CO2 emissions”, etc. The company ranking in Fortune top 500 was compared with counterparts of the industry. The Report has a super excellent comparability performance. 59 Readability ( ★★★★★ ) China Mobile Communications Corporation 2014 Sustainability Report The structure of the Report is clear, the language is smooth and the disclosed cases are diverse. It adopts a variety of expressions such as graphs and charts, which improved overall readability along with the text. Voices of stakeholders are presented in multiple parts in the Report to further strengthen credibility. The Report has a super excellent readability performance. Creativity ( ★★★★★ ) The Report begins each chapter with a case story. Such soft communication efforts increase reader’s interest and report credibility. Each chapter ends with a chart of “expectation-action-performance-plan”, which specifically responded to stakeholder expectations. The Report has a super excellent creativity performance. Overall Rating ( ★★★★★ ) The rating team agreed to rate China Mobile Communications Corporation 2014 Sustainability Report as five-star, which is a super excellent corporate social responsibility report. 4. Suggested Improvements Add more industry comparable data to improve report comparability. Rating Team Team Leader: Zhong Hongwu, Director of CSR Research Center, Economics Division, Chinese Academy of Social Sciences Report Rating Team Members: Liu Weihua, Deputy Chairman and Director of China Committee of Corporate Citizenship Han Bin, Deputy Director of China Enterprise Confederation Employers Work Department, Executive Secretary General of UN Global Compact Network China Wang Chengbo and Wang Mengjuan, Process Evaluations Team Peng Huagang Zhong Hongwu Chairman of China CSR Report Rating Committee Team Leader of the Rating Team Vice President of Executive Council of the Center Director of the Center April 24, 2015 Feedback 60 Dear reader, Thank you for reading China Mobile Communications Corporation 2014 Sustainability Report. In order to China Mobile Communications Corporation 2014 Sustainability Report further improve our sustainability performance and report quality, your comments and suggestions are very much appreciated and we hope you could help us continuously improve our work. China Mobile Report Team March 2015 Please score from 1 to 5 (1 being the lowest and 5 being the highest) for the following questions: 1. Your overall opinion on China Mobile Sustainability Report 2. Your opinion on whether this report reflects significant economic, social and environmental impacts of China Mobile 3. Your overall opinion on our communication with stakeholders 4. Your overall opinion on information disclosure in this report 5. Your overall opinion on the format and design of this report You are welcome to make more comments: Feedback Your Contact Information: Name: Company: Phone Number: Email: You may send an email to China Mobile 2014 Sustainability Report Team at CR@chinamobile.com, or fax the form to +86-10-52616167. We will take your comments seriously and promise not to disclose your information to third-party. Report Disclosure Indexes 61 GRI Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (G4) China Mobile Communications Corporation 2014 Sustainability Report No. Page/Omissions No. Page/Omissions No. Page/Omissions STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS G4-29 4 ECONOMIC G4-1 1 G4-30 4 Economic Performance G4-2 1, 19, 35, 49 G4-31 60 G4-DMA 19, 38-39, 49 ORGANISATIONAL PROFILE G4-32 58-59, 61-62 G4-EC1 8, 38, 50 G4-3 3 G4-33 58-59 G4-EC2 45-48 GOVERNANCE We participate in Social G4-4 3, 8-9, 16-18, 36-44 Insurance System in G4-5 3, Back Cover G4-34 5, 12, 50 G4-EC3 accordance to Chinese G4-6 3, 8 G4-35 5 Law G4-EC4 Annual Report G4-7 3 G4-36 5 Market Presence G4-8 3 G4-37 5-6 G4-DMA 50 G4-9 3, 8, 50, 52 G4-38 50, Annual Report G4-EC5 50 G4-10 53, 54 G4-39 50 G4-EC6 54 Report Disclosure Indexes G4-11 55 G4-40 Annual Report Indirect Economic Impacts G4-12 25-26 G4-41 Annual Report G4-DMA 35, 50 G4-13 3, 8, 27, 38 G4-42 5 G4-EC7 30-31, 50 G4-14 45-46 G4-43 6-7 G4-EC8 20-21, 25-34, 43-44, 50 G4-15 4, 5, 54 We plan to establish such Procurement Practices G4-44 process in the future G4-16 5, 8, 54 G4-DMA 35 G4-45 5-7 IDENTIFIED MATERIAL ASPECTS AND BOUNDARIES G4-EC9 25-26, 51 We plan to establish such G4-17 3 G4-46 ENVIRONMENTAL process in the future G4-18 4, 7 Energy G4-47 6 G4-19 7 G4-DMA 25, 45, 51 G4-48 5 G4-20 4, 7, 61-62 G4-EN3 51 G4-49 5-6 Currently we do not have G4-21 7, 61-62 G4-50 6, 50 a in place external energy G4-22 4 G4-EN4 statistic system, we plan G4-51 Annual Report to establish such a system G4-23 4 G4-52 Annual Report in the future STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT G4-53 Annual Report G4-EN5 51 G4-24 6 G4-54 Confidential Information G4-EN6 45-46, 52 G4-25 6 G4-55 Confidential Information G4-EN7 46 G4-26 6-7 Emissions ETHICS AND INTEGRITY G4-27 6-7 G4-DMA 25, 45-49, 52 G4-56 5, 12-13 REPORT PROFILE G4-EN15 52 G4-57 13 G4-28 4 G4-EN16 53 G4-58 13 62 China Mobile Communications Corporation 2014 Sustainability Report No. Page/Omissions No. Page/Omissions No. Page/Omissions Currently we do not G4-LA3 53 G4-SO3 13, 55 have a in place scope 3 GHG emission statistics Labour/Management Relations G4-SO4 13, 55 G4-EN17 system, we plan to G4-DMA 55 G4-SO5 13, 55 establish such a system in the future G4-LA4 55 Compliance G4-EN18 52 Training and Education G4-DMA 12, 50, 56 G4-EN19 25, 46-47, 52 G4-DMA 23, 54 G4-SO8 56 ODS is not one of G4-EN20 our major emission G4-LA9 23, 54 Supplier Assessment for Impacts on Society substances G4-LA10 23 G4-DMA 27, 53 Our major emission G4-LA11 23 G4-SO9 G4-EN21 substances do not include such emissions Diversity and Equal Opportunity G4-SO10 27 Effluents and Waste G4-DMA 22, 54 PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY G4-DMA 47-48, 52 G4-LA12 54 Customer Health and Safety Report Disclosure Indexes G4-EN22 52 Supplier Assessment for Labour Practices G4-DMA 14-19 G4-EN23 53 G4-DMA 27, 54 G4-PR1 15, 18 No significant spills G4-EN24 G4-LA14 54 G4-PR2 56 occurred during the year G4-EN25 52 G4-LA15 54 Product and Service Labelling G4-EN26 52 Labour Practices Grievance Mechanisms G4-DMA 19 Products and Services G4-DMA 55 G4-PR3 14-18 G4-DMA 45-48 G4-LA16 6, 55 G4-PR4 16-18 G4-EN27 46, 48, 52 HUMAN RIGHTS G4-PR5 16, 56 G4-EN28 52 Non-discrimination Marketing Compliance G4-DMA 55 G4-DMA 17, 56 G4-DMA 53 G4-HR3 55 G4-PR6 56 G4-EN29 53 Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining G4-PR7 56 Supplier Environmental Assessment G4-DMA 54 Customer Privacy G4-DMA 27, 53 G4-HR4 54 G4-DMA 18, 56 G4-EN32 G4-EN33 27, 53 SOCIETY G4-PR8 56 LABOUR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK Local Communities Compliance Employment G4-DMA 15, 34 G4-DMA 17, 56 G4-DMA 22 G4-SO1 55 G4-PR9 56 G4-LA1 53 G4-SO2 15, 28-33 G4-LA2 24, 54 Anti-corruption G4-DMA 13, 19 63 The UN Global Compact’s 10 Principles China Mobile Communications Corporation 2014 Sustainability Report No. Index Page Human Rights Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally Principle 1 15, 17-18, 22-24, 28-31, 55 proclaimed human rights Principle 2 Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses 55 Labour Standards Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective Principle 3 55 recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 4 The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour 55 Principle 5 The effective abolition of child labour 55 Principle 6 The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation 22, 53-55 Environment Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental Principle 7 45 challenges Principle 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility 45-48 Principle 9 Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies 47-48 Anti-Corruption Report Disclosure Indexes Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion Principle 10 13, 50, 55 and bribery ISO 26000 Core Issues Index Page Core Issues Index Page Organisation Governance 5, 12, 50 1. Anti-corruption 13, 50, 55 1. Due diligence 55-56 2. Responsible political involvement Fair 2. Human rights risk situations 55 3. Fair competition 56 Operating 3. Avoidance of complicity 55 Practice 4. Promoting social responsibility in 25, 27, 53, 56 the value chain 4. Resolving grievances 6, 55 5. Respect for property rights 27, 38 Human 5. Discrimination and vulnerable 22, 28-31, 33, Rights groups 36-37, 53-55 1. Fair marketing, factual and unbiased information and fair 16-17, 56 6. Civil and political rights 55 contractual practices 7. Economic, social and cultural 23-24, 55 2. Protecting consumers’ health rights 15, 18, 56 and safety 8. Fundamental principles and rights 22-24, 53-55 3. Sustainable consumption 48 at work Consumer 4. Consumer service, support and 1. Employment and employment Issues 6, 16-18, 56 22, 55 compliant and dispute resolution relationships 5. Consumer data protection and 2. Conditions of work and social 18, 56 23-24, 53-55 privacy protection Labour Practices 3. Social dialogue 5-7, 55 6. Access to essential services 28-29 4. Health and safety at work 24, 54 15-18, 20-21, 7. Education and awareness 29-30 5. Human development and training 23, 54 1. Community involvement 20-21, 30-33 in the workplace 1. Prevention of pollution 45-48, 52 2. Education and culture 20-21, 40, 42 2. Sustainable resource use 46, 52 Community 3. Employment creation and skills 30, 43, 50 Involvement development 3. Climate change mitigation and and Environment 45-48, 51-53 4. Technology development and adaptation Development 40-44 access 4. Protection of the environment, biodiversity and restoration of 46-48, 52 5. Wealth and income creation 30, 43-44, 50 natural homes 6. Health 15, 33, 40-41, 44 7. Social investment 20-21, 28-33, 50 64 Environmental, Social and Governance Reporting Guide of the Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited China Mobile Communications Corporation 2014 Sustainability Report Core Issues Index Page A. Workplace Quality A1.1 Total workforce by employment type, age group and geographical region. 53-54 A1 Working conditions A1.2 Employee turnover rate by age group and geographical region. 53 A2.1 Number and rate of work-related fatalities. 54 A2.2 Lost days due to work injury. A2 Health and safety A2.3 Description of occupational health and safety measures adopted, 24, 54 how they are implemented and monitored. A3.1 The percentage of employees trained by employee category A3 Development and 54 (e.g. senior management, middle management, etc.). training A3.2 The average training hours completed per employee by employee category. 54 A4.1 Description of measures to review employment practices to avoid child and forced labour. 55 A4 Labour standards A4.2 Description of steps taken to eliminate such practices when discovered. 56 B. Environmental Protection B1.1 The types of emissions and respective emissions data. 52 B1.2 Greenhouse gas emissions in total (in tonnes) and where appropriate, intensity (e.g. per unit 52 of production volume, per facility). B1.3 Total hazardous waste produced (in tonnes) and where appropriate, intensity (e.g. per unit Report Disclosure Indexes of production volume, per facility). B1 Emissions B1.4 Total non-hazardous waste produced (in tonnes) and where appropriate, intensity (e.g. per 53 unit of production volume, per facility). B1.5 Description of measures to mitigate emissions and results achieved. 45-48 B1.6 Description of how hazardous and non-hazardous wastes are handled, reduction initiatives 48, 52-53 and results achieved. B2.1 Direct and/or indirect energy consumption by type (e.g. electricity, gas or oil) in total (kwh in 51 ‘000s) and intensity (e.g. per unit of production volume, per facility). B2.2 Water consumption in total and intensity (e.g. per unit of production volume, per facility). 52 B2.3 Description of energy use efficiency initiatives and results achieved. 45-46 B2 Use of resources B2.4 Description of whether there is any issue in sourcing water that is fit for purpose, water 52 efficiency initiatives and results achieved. B2.5 Total packaging material used for finished products (in tonnes), and if applicable, with reference to per unit produced. B3 The environment B3.1 Description of the significant impacts of activities on the environment and natural resources and natural 45, 52 and the actions taken to manage them. resources C. Operating Practice C1.1 Number of suppliers by geographical region. 25, 51 C1 Supply chain management C1.2 Description of practices relating to engaging suppliers, number of suppliers where the 25, 27, practices are being implemented, how they are implemented and monitored. 51-53, 56, 54 C2.1 Description of practices relating to engaging suppliers, number of suppliers where the practices are being implemented, how they are implemented and monitored. C2.2 Number of products and service related complaints received and how they are dealt with. 15-18, 56 C2 Product C2.3 Description of practices relating to observing and protecting intellectual property rights. 27, 38 responsibility C2.4 Description of quality assurance process and recall procedures. 48 C2.5 Description of consumer data protection and privacy policies, how they are implemented 18, 56 and monitored. C3.1 Number of concluded legal cases regarding corrupt practices brought against the issuer or 13, 55 its employees during the reporting period and the outcomes of the cases. C3 Anti-corruption C3.2 Description of preventive measures and whistle-blowing procedures, how they are 13 implemented and monitored. D. Community Involvement D1.1 Focus areas of contribution (e.g. education, environmental concerns, labour needs, health, D1 Community 20-21, 28-33 culture, sport). investment D1.2 Resources contributed (e.g. money or time) to the focus area. 20, 31-33, 55 65 Chinese CSR Report Preparation Guide (CASS-CSR 3.0) China Mobile Communications Corporation 2014 Sustainability Report No. Materiality Page No. Materiality Page No. Materiality Page P. Report Foreword G5.4 High 5-7 M2.27 High 28, 43 P1.1 High 5, 58-59 G5.5 High 6-7 M2.28 High 28-29 P1.2 High 4 G5.6 High 5-7 M2.29 High 50 P1.3 High 4 G6.1 High 5-6 M2.30 High P1.4 High 4 G6.2 High 5-7 M2.31 High P1.5 High 60, Back Cover G6.3 High 5, 27 M2.32 High 30 P2.1 High G6.4 High 5 M2.33 High 56 P2.2 High 7 M. Market Performance M2.34 High 6, 15-18 P2.3 High 7 M1.1 High 7, 12, 50 M2.35 High 16, 56 P3.1 High 1 M1.2 High Annual Report M3.1 High 25-27 P3.2 High 1 M1.3 High 6-7, 12 M3.2 High 13 P4.1 High 3 M1.4 High 8, 38, 50 M3.3 High 25 P4.2 High 8-9, 28-29, 36-44 M1.5 High 38, 50 M3.4 High P4.3 High 3 3, 38, 50, M3.5 High 25, 27 M1.6 High Annual Report M3.6 High 27 Report Disclosure Indexes P4.4 High 3, 8-9 P4.5 High 53-54 M2.1 High 19 M3.7 High 25, 27 P4.6 High 5, 8 M2.2 High 15-16 M3.8 High 27, 51 P4.7 High 3, 8, 27, 38 M2.3 High 18, 56 M3.9 High 27, 53-54 P5.1 High 1, 57 M2.4 High 17 M3.10 High 51 P5.2 High 50-56 M2.5 High 16, 56 M3.11 High 25, 27 P5.3 High 3, 5 M2.6 High 16-18 M3.12 High 26-27 M2.7 High 38 M4.1 High 38 G. Responsibility Management M2.8 High 16, 56 M4.2 High 38 G1.1 High 5 M2.9 High 14, 54 M4.3 High G1.2 High 4, 5, 55 M2.10 High 14, 19,28, 50 M4.4 High 38 G1.3 High 5, 7 M2.11 High 28, 50, 56 M4.5 High 38 G1.4 High 5-6 M2.12 High 56 M4.6 High 40-44 G2.1 High 5 M2.13 High 56 S. Social Performance G2.2 High 6-7 M2.14 High 56 S1.1 High 12-13, 50 G2.3 High 5 M2.15 High 28, 50 S1.2 High 13, 55 G2.4 High 5 M2.16 High 14, 18 S1.3 High 13 G2.5 High 5-6 M2.17 High 18 S1.4 High 13, 55-56 G3.1 High 5 M2.18 High 18 S1.5 High 50 G3.2 High 25-27 M2.19 High 18 S1.6 High 7, 38 G4.1 High 6-7 M2.20 High 18 S1.7 High 22, 50 G4.2 High 5 M2.21 High 14, 18 S1.8 High 22, 53 G4.3 High 5 M2.22 High S2.1 High 55 G4.4 High 13, 17-18, 56 M2.23 High 14 S2.2 High 55 G5.1 High 6 M2.24 High 14, 55 S2.3 High 55 G5.2 High 5-6 M2.25 High 14, 55 S2.4 High 55 G5.3 High 6 M2.26 High 28-29, 37, 41 66 China Mobile Communications Corporation 2014 Sustainability Report No. Materiality Page No. Materiality Page No. Materiality Page S2.5 High 55 S3.2 High 15 E3.1 High 25, 45 S2.6 High S3.3 High 20-21, 30-33 E3.2 High 25 S2.7 High 23-24, 55 S3.4 High 54 E3.3 High 46 S2.8 Medium S3.5 High 25-26, 51 E3.4 High 46, 53 S2.9 High 54 S3.6 High 30-34 E3.5 Low 46, 48 S2.10 Medium S3.7 High 32 E3.6 High 25, 27, 53 S2.11 High S3.8 Medium E3.7 High S2.12 High 23-24 S3.9 High 32, 55 E3.8 High 25, 27, 53 S2.13 High 54 S3.10 High 34, 55 E3.9 High 53 S2.14 High 54 S3.11 High 34, 55 E3.10 High 25, 46-48 S2.15 High 22 E. Green Operation E3.11 Low 48, 52-53 S2.16 Medium 54 E1.1 High 45 E3.12 Low 53 S2.17 Medium 54-55 E1.2 High 45 E4.1 High 45-48 S2.18 Medium 54 E1.3 High 46 E4.2 High 45-48 S2.19 Medium 54 E4.3 High 46-47, 52 Report Disclosure Indexes E1.4 High 45, 51 S2.20 High 54 E1.5 High 45-46, 48 E4.4 Low S2.21 High 24, 54 E1.6 High 45 E4.5 High 47 S2.22 High 54 E1.7 Low 51-53 E4.6 High 48, 52-53 S2.23 High 24, 54 E1.8 High 51 A. Report Afterword S2.24 High 23 E1.9 Low 45, 51 A1 High 19, 35, 49 S2.25 High 23 E1.10 High 51 A2 High 56-59 S2.26 High 23, 54 E1.11 High A3 High 61-66 S2.27 High 24 E2.1 High 45-46 A4 High 60 S2.28 High 24, 53 E2.2 High 46 S2.29 High 24 E2.3 High S2.30 High 24, 54 E2.4 High 46 S2.31 High E2.5 High 46 S2.32 High 53 E2.6 High 46 S3.1 High 15 E2.7 High 46 With perfect sincerity and integrity, we will strive to fulfil our triple-sided responsibilities: our economic responsibility; our social responsibility and our environmental responsibility China Mobile Communications Corporation Address: NO.29, Jinrong Avenue, Xicheng District, Beijing, P.R.China Post Code: 100033 Website for Report Download: www.10086.cn All copyrights reserved. No reproduction by any means is allowed without acknowledgement. This report is printed on environmentally friendly paper.
