UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT (UNGC) – COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS AUGUST 2015 LETTER OF COMMITMENT FROM MANAGING DIRECTOR, AYA BANK AYA Bank embarks on the 3rd year on the journey of being a committed organisation to the UNGC. With the opening up of the country and new developments in the country's financial sector, AYA Bank reaffirms our support to the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas covering Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption issues. AYA Bank, in working towards achieving its mission to be a leading bank in the country, does not neglect the fact that it is important to work responsibly and thus embed the UNGC Principles into our bank's practices, policies and operations. In this 3rd Communication on Progress Report, we highlight a summary of our progress in adhering to the Ten Principles during the year. Additionally, we commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Yours sincerely, Phyo Aung Managing Director AYA Bank Limited UNGC Principle AYA Bank's Position AYA Bank's Implementation & Achievements HUMAN RIGHTS AYA Bank will under any circumstance, Human rights policy published on the www.ayabank.com 1 Businesses should support and not be aiding and abetting or A segment of human rights policy will be incorporated in the staff respect the protection of orientation and trainings. accessory to any form of human rights internationally proclaimed The bank has will encourage the suppliers to follow suit. human rights. violation. AYA Bank announces its The inspection will be conducted on supplier. human rights policy and code of The hotline has been established for human rights grievances. 2 Make sure Businesses are not conduct and accessible at Delivered work place ethic, non-discrimination policy at trainings complicit in human right www.ayabank.com Conduct monthly review on grievance at the committee. abuses. Work Place Ethic and Employee Hand Amend the employee hand book annually. Book are in place. SOP on how to deal with human rights violations has been established. The bank will continue to promote and advocate human rights norms and respect to fundamental human rights to our external stakeholders: customers, suppliers and partners. As the bank expand it retail network, we will excel our advocacy effort to all across nation. LABOUR STANDARDS 3 Businesses should uphold More than 4600 employees drive our With more than (120) branches as at 11 August 2015 (AYA’s 5th freedom of association and business and AYA Bank fully takes pride Anniversary) and counting, our human capital is one of the driving effective recognition of the in being one of the “Employers of force in making it happen. right to collective bargaining. Choice” in the country. All AYA Bank branches and Head Office units are built to ensure that We believe in creating a conducive and we offer a conducive working environment to all our employees. 4 The elimination of all forms of rewarding work environment for our AYA Bank has purchased Group Life Insurance Policies for all our forced and compulsory labour. employees. employees to ensure that there is certain coverage for any incidents. AYA Bank places importance on being AYA focuses on capacity development and we have catered to more 5 The effective abolition of child transparent in our procedures and than (70) capacity development programmes across our staff at all labour. processes when catering to our levels to ensure our staff development. 2 of 4 employees. AYA Bank is also continuously improving our Policies to ensure we are 6 Eliminate discrimination in able to have clear and transparent guidelines. We have also come up respect of employment and with a revised Employee Handbook with new rules and regulations, occupation. revised staff benefits, etc, so as to ensure that all our employees are aware. AYA Bank has internal Human Rights policy and also checks our vendors to ensure that they also follow our terms and conditions, such as Anti-Corruption, No Child Labour Policies. ENVIRONMENT 7 Businesses should support a AYA Bank recognizes, understood and To utilize solar energy generated ATM all across the nation/ The precautionary approach to place emphasis on the environmental AYA Bank has conceptual plan to utilize the solar energy to power environmental challenges. impact causes by the rapid growth of our ATMs all across the nation. (Future Plan) 8 Undertake initiatives to businesses and industries. The AYA The monitoring mechanism is installed, to enforce the rules and promote greater environmental Bank actively promotes the rules and regulations on environmental impact. The Corporate Affairs is responsibility. norms with objective of reducing the acting as a lead department. negative impacts on the environment The rules and regulations to reduce the negative impact in the 9 Encourage the development internally, as well as to the environment are being incorporated into our training programs, and diffusion of stakeholders. and staffs orientation. Similarly, such trainings and orientation will environmentally friendly The banking and financial business be delivered to our suppliers and vendors at no cost or encourage technologies. rarely cause direct environmental follow AYA’ example. degradation to large extend. We aim The unscheduled inspection visit will be made to all suppliers sites to reduce it further. and companies, with the purpose of conducting due diligence. All AYA Bank suppliers and vendors If there is a violation or misdemeanor, likely to cause negative have to sign a mandatory SCP environmental impact, the AYA Bank will notify a supplier or vendor agreement prior to entering any form to investigate. Depending on the impact, it may result in a of business relationship. Within this termination of contract and discontinuation of the services. SCP, the Supplier Code of Conduct Within AYA Bank the following are mandatory: serves as a controlling mechanism to Double Sided Paper Printer prevent and reduce negative “Think before Print” sticker on all AYA Bank printers environmental impact. Recycling garbage at all AYA Bank branches: Paper, Plastic, Can AYA Bank has amended and trash bin. (Future Plan) 3 of 4 implemented the rules and Substitute plastic bag with brown paper bank in all AYA Bank regulations internally to reduce the branches. In order to attract customers to volunteering switch from usages of paper, petrol, and other the plastic bag to paper bag, AYA Bank will incentivize with point natural resources. In addition, the system. A customer who chose to use a paper bag will revive waste management system has been point(s), redeemable for Gift Items. implemented. The Car Pooling system will be implemented. The awareness sharing tools are in Encourage and remind all staffs to turn off light and Air Condition place. The AYA Bank is picking up the units after work. momentum in promoting the awareness of environmental impact to all stakeholders, partners and suppliers. ANTI-CORRUPTION 10 Businesses should work against AYA Bank included in our AYA AntiAYA Bank has written several policies and disciplinary actions with all forms of corruption, Corruption Policy that The Reputation regards to corruption such as whistle blowing policy, anti-corruption including extortion and bribery. of AYA Bank is our greatest Asset. policy are clearly communicated to employees and suppliers via Under the law of Anti-Corruption standard internal communication tools. 2013 by National Parliament, AYA AYA Bank has proper Guidelines and Committees to ensure increased Bank strictly against to all kind of anti-corruption efforts along the supply chain. corruptions and will take necessary AYA Bank will also raise the awareness and comprehensiveness of our action to ensure that corruption does employees toward anti-corruption by deploying training and case not occur in AYA Bank’s business study. activities. AYA Bank Corporate Affairs Team also works closely with the AYA Bank declares that AntiManagement and the Internal Audit Team to carry out Flying Squad Corruption is wrong and has zero (Surprise Audits) to ensure that there are no cases of fraud or forms tolerance. of corruption within the organization at any touch point. AYA Bank strictly prohibits all of our We have internal audit team to practice regular auditing and AYA employees from individual or group, Bank has no record of irregular payment amount been found. direct or indirect involvement or AYA Bank is strictly monitoring the behavior of our employees and agreement in corruption. suppliers towards corruption and if any violation found, we will take necessary action according to the policies stated. 4 of 4 In coming year, there will be awareness program for AYA Bank’s employees and suppliers on AntiCorruption Policy and how to handle the corruption case. 5 of 4
