Making an impact that matters Deloitte Serbia: UNGC Communication on Progress Report for 2013/14 1 Contents Page 3 Basic data; Brief description of nature of business Page 4 Statement of continued support to UNGC Page 5 Principles 1 and 2 Page 7 Principles 3, 4 and 5 Page 9 Principle 6 Page 12 Principle 7 and 8 Page 13 Principle 9 Page 10 Principle 10 Page 15 Availability of Communication on Progress 2 On the right course Deloitte Serbia UNGC Communication on Progress Report 2013/2014 Basic data Company: Deloitte Serbia Address: Terazije 8, 11 000 Belgrade; Country: Serbia; Contacts: Aleksandra Gregović, MCBD Manager; E-mail: agregovic@deloittece.com; Phone: +381 (0) 11 3812-180; Number of employees: 150; Sector: Professional services. Date of submission of COP: 13 March 2015 Brief description of nature of business Deloitte is the brand under which tens of thousands of dedicated professionals in independent firms throughout the world collaborate to provide audit, consulting, financial advisory, risk management and tax services to selected clients. On the right course Deloitte Serbia UNGC Communication on Progress Report 3 Statement of continued support for the UN Global Compact As Partners in Deloitte Serbia, we hereby confirm our continued support for the Global Compact. We find the Global Compact to be a valuable tool when working towards upholding social and environmental ethics throughout all links of our work. Deloitte takes actions in working with other organizations to address challenges faced in common by businesses, governments, and communities, in keeping with our continued support for the 10 principles of the United Nations Global Compact. Signature: Miloš Macura Office Managing Partner for Serbia, Montenegro, Macedonia and R.Srpska 4 On the right course Deloitte Serbia UNGC Communication on Progress Report 2013/2014 Principle 1 Business should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Principle 2 Business should ensure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Our commitment or policy Deloitte recognizes that we have a responsibility to uphold human rights in the workplace and to use our influence and reach to foster support for human rights more broadly within society at large. We work to address human rights issues within our community. In the workplace, human rights take the form on non-discrimination and diversity in personnel practices, professional development that aids employability, and work-life balance. Recruiting and retaining activities reflect a desire to hire professionals who share Deloitte’s values and commitment to responsible business. On the right course Deloitte Serbia UNGC Communication on Progress Report 5 Helping Those in Need Since Serbia and the neighbouring countries faced sever flooding in May 2014, the worst in 100 years, Deloitte Serbia made financial donation to the people in need for the urgent relief. The partners and staff of Deloitte Central Europe also personally contributed more than €15,000 to help the flood relief efforts which was bolstered by a €50,000 contribution from Deloitte Central Europe and local practices. The combined funds, totalling over €100,000, were distributed to the following organisations: The National Red Cross societies of Serbia, Croatia, the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina and Republika Srpska, The Bulgarian Charities Aid Foundation and Polska Akcja Humanitarna. 6 On the right course Deloitte Serbia UNGC Communication on Progress Report 2013/2014 Principle 3 Business should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 4 Business should support the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour Principle 5 Business should support the effective abolition of child labour Our commitment or policy Deloitte Shared Values and Ethical Principles prescribe that all interaction between Deloitte and its employees must be characterized by integrity, trust, and mutual respect. On the right course Deloitte Serbia UNGC Communication on Progress Report 7 Actions implemented People survey – Employee voice can be heard Deloitte Serbia, in accordance to the global DTT policy conducts every second year an anonymous people commitment surveys to lend a voice to employees through which to communicate with leadership. The people commitment survey gives the employees a chance to state their opinion on various internal and external business issues. Results are collected, analyzed and followed up in each department and problems are addressed in a constructive manner. A number of key conclusions and development areas have been identified based on the feedback received and immediate actions have been taken into considertation. 8 On the right course Deloitte Serbia UNGC Communication on Progress Report 2013/2014 Principle 6 Business should support the elimination and discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Our commitment or policy A part of Deloitte’s global vision – being the Standard of Excellence – is desire to become the employer of choice for the most talented experts around the world. Women make up to 44 percent of total global Deloitte population. Our global goal is to increase the percentage of women among directors and partners ( 21%). Deloitte is committed to establishing programs in order to develop, mentor and prepare women to be the next generation of global leaders. Elements of the programs include:  Learning and leadership development opportunities designed specifically for women  Building global networks both internally and externally  More consistent and comprehensive work/life balance structure On the right course Deloitte Serbia UNGC Communication on Progress Report 9 More about ethics at Deloitte DTTL has a requirement, established in 2012, that all member firm people annually confirm their compliance with member firm anticorruption policies. DTTL's formal ethics program comprises the following elements:  The nine Ethical Principles and four Shared Values of the Deloitte member firms;  A global ethics policy that sets out the requirements for member firms' own ethics programs;  A global anti-corruption policy that addresses matters such as bribery, facilitation payments, political and charitable contributions, and gifts and entertainment;  Ethics training programs, including an introductory online course, classroom programs, facilitator-led interactive case discussions and online training course;  Support activities, including communications, workshops, and webinars to facilitate best practice sharing among member firms;  Provision of a survey and self-assessment questionnaire to allow member firms to measure their program's effectiveness; and  A practice review program to measure compliance with global ethics policies and encourage collaborative discussions and continuous improvement over time. 10 On the right course Deloitte Serbia UNGC Communication on Progress Report 2013/2014 Deloitte’s focus on diversity and inclusion Deloitte’s focus on diversity and inclusion earned the organization a third-place ranking in DiversityInc.’s Top 10 Companies for Global Diversity. These diversity focus areas encompass ethnicity, age, disabilities, and other factors relevant to particular member firms. One of the diversity workshop was organized in our office in September 2013, where our colleagues participated in the discussion on creating more inclusive diverse culture in our firm. The Diversity Workshop was delivered by our regional guests Nick Leach (external – Partnership Consulting), Iwona Georgijew (CE Diversity Leader) and with support of Jelena Galić (Diversity Ambassador). All conclusions were communicated to the leadership and there has been follow up communication and actions. On the right course Deloitte Serbia UNGC Communication on Progress Report 11 Principle 7 Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Principle 8 Business should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility DTTL believes that business and institutions need to become more sustainable in order to secure long-term prosperity for society and themselves. We manage sustainability programs at our local level, in line with the DTTL Coroporate resposnisibility policy and our own policies and priorities. Actions implemented Green Four June 2013 For the 4th consecutive year Deloitte, KPMG, PwC and E&Y, known as Big 4, organized a joint CSR volunteer activity. We spent a day with the users of the Gerontology Center “Bežanijska kosa” and helped them clean the yard and surrounding area of the center. 12 On the right course Deloitte Serbia UNGC Communication on Progress Report 2013/2014 Principle 9 Business should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Our commitment or policy We think that each company has a responsibility to minimize the impact of its business on the environment. Therefore, Deloitte Serbia carries out several actions in the “Green dot” programme, aimed at improving our relationship to the environment. “Green dot” programme The activities implemented as part of the “Green dot” programme include:  Bins for collecting waste paper in all permises and open office spaces  Recycling printer toners  Introducing the message “Please consider environment before printing this e-mail” as an obligatory part of all e-mail signatures. Measurable results or outcomes Activity Date of completion Percentage of participants Waste paper bins On-going In all premises Toner recycling On-going 100% “Green” e-mail message On-going 100% On the right course Deloitte Serbia UNGC Communication on Progress Report 13 Principle 10 Business should work against corruption in all forms, including extortion and bribery Educational programme on the Ethical Deloitte Confidentiality & Insider Trading EPrinciples of the Member Firms of Deloitte learning Course Training obligatory for all employees Educational programme on the Ethical Principles is mandatory for all our employees. It Anti money laundering training is an on-line education that uses examples and scenarios from the real life, as well as the Anti money laundering training is obligatory for resource on ethical business that can be used by all employees. our experts around the clock. Deloitte also provides the independence and compliance Our commitment or policy surveys, insuring that our business practice is At the heart of our business culture are the according to the accepted rules and procedures. Ethical Principles, adopted by each of Deloitte’s Ethics in Action – Power of One training member firms and linking directly to our Global Shared Values. These nine principles define the Independence compliance confirmation standards of ethical behaviour that unite all the people of DTT’s member firms. In particular, the Maintaining compliance with the company’s principles offer guidance about appropriate independence policies is an important part of ethical and professional conduct covering areas our professional responsibilities. We take this that are critically important to the member seriously and are required to confirm annually to firms’ clients, their people and society. The DTT that we have complied with all principles are: Honesty and Integrity; Ethical independence policies. Behaviour; Competence; Objectivity; Confidentiality; Fair Business Practices; Responsibility to Society; Respect and Fairness; Accountability and Decision-making. Measurable results or outcomes Date of completion Percentage of participants Activity Ethics in Action – Power of One During 2013-14 100% Deloitte Confidentiality & Insider Trading E-learning Course During 2013-14 100% Anti money laundering training During 2014 100% Insider Trading November 2011 100% 14 On the right course Deloitte Serbia UNGC Communication on Progress Report 2013/2014 Availability of COP How does Deloitte Serbia intend to make this Communication on Progress available to the stakeholders? About Deloitte Deloitte is one of the world’s largest professional services organizations, offering a wide range of world-class audit, tax, consulting, and financial advisory services. Our firm is singularly positioned with the scale, scope, and multidisciplinary capabilities necessary to address the most complex business challenges. About Deloitte Central Europe Deloitte Central Europe is a regional organization of entities organized under the umbrella of Deloitte Central Europe Holdings Limited, the member firm in Central Europe of Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu. Services are provided by the subsidiaries and affiliates of Deloitte Central Europe Holdings Limited which are separate and independent legal entities. The subsidiaries and affiliates of Deloitte Central Europe Holdings Limited are among the region’s leading professional services firms, providing services through more than 4,700 people in more than 37 offices in 17 countries. About Deloitte Serbia In the Republic of Serbia, Deloitte doo is affiliate of Deloitte Central Europe Holdings Limited. Deloitte Serbia is one of the leading professional services organizations in the country providing services in four professional areas — audit, tax, consulting, and financial advisory services — through more than 150 national and specialized expatriate professionals. On the right course Deloitte Serbia UNGC Communication on Progress Report 15 Deloitte refers to one or more of Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Limited, a UK private company limited by guarantee, and its network of member firms, each of which is a legally separate and independent entity. Please see www.deloitte.com/rs/about for a detailed description of the legal structure of Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Limited and its Member Firms. © 2015 Deloitte Serbia. All rights reserved. 16 On the right course Deloitte Serbia UNGC Communication on Progress Report 2013/2014
