Leumi Group Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2014 2 Corporate Responsibility Report 3 MESSAGE FROM THE CHAIRMAN AND FROM THE PRESIDENT AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER Since its establishment more than 110 years ago, the Leumi Adapting activities to changing regulation. The rules and Group has been committed to the Zionist vision, to the regulations in the banking sector, in Israel and worldwide, development of the Israeli economy and to the creation of are constantly changing and the Bank adapts its activities value for its stakeholders. Each period, throughout those accordingly and for the benefit of the customer. In recent years, years, has been fraught with different challenges, emphases we have adjusted to the many changes that the world of private and objectives, yet this basic commitment, stemming from the banking is undergoing, and we even preceded the regulator purpose of the establishment of the Group, remains intact. (both in Israel and in other countries) regarding the meticulous implementation of a declared money policy, as is customary In the present era, inspired by its vision: to conduct proactive in Western banking today. In this context, we took steps for and innovative banking for the customer, the Group aspires the closure of representative offices and branches of the to promote five key goals both in areas of its corporate social Bank overseas, sold the office operations in Switzerland, and responsibility and sustainability, and in its core business absorbed private banking activities into the Banking Division. activities. These are the goals we have set for ourselves: Nurturing the human capital as part of the competitive A holistic view of customer needs. Leumi is required, on a daily advantage. We are committed to maintain and enhance the basis, to recommit to the financial success of its customers. capabilities of our employees, so that we can lead proactive A true understanding of customer needs is the foundation and innovative banking for our customers, continue to lead for a healthy and equitable relationship, and inspired by this, the banking system in Israel, and address the challenges of we will continue to develop innovative and valuable services tomorrow. In early 2015, a four-year collective agreement was and processes for all types of customers: households, small signed between Bank Management and the Leumi Employees and medium businesses, and large business companies. We organization, which is characterized by a concern for all levels constantly strive to develop products that promote the customer of the Bank’s employees, with an emphasis on low-income as well as products promoting targeted populations. In 2014, employees, including minimum wage earners and contract we expanded the range of loans that promote environmental employees. We proved again that when the parties conduct a and social goals and initiated an innovative program designed transparent and open dialogue and when they consider the to help customers out of work who have accumulated arrears in benefit of customers, employees, and shareholders the best mortgage payments, to get back into the employment cycle. results are received. Leading the technological revolution for the customer. We live Continuing to foster our contribution to the community and our in a fast, digital age, where the pace of change is increasing investment in it. This year, strategic cooperation was deepened every day. Leumi perceives technology as a lever for business with the “Aharai! Youth Leading Change” organization. The and social development, which enhances the benefit for the scope of the organization’s activities in peripheral outlying customer, for the Bank itself and for its stakeholders. We are areas was increased, the number of volunteers among Leumi investing heavily in developing digital products and services employees was expanded, and the establishment of the Friends based on cutting-edge technology, in order to increase Association headed by the President and Chief Executive Officer accessibility and reduce the cost of banking activity for the of Leumi has begun. Quietly and discreetly, the organization customer. In aspiring to lead proactive and innovative banking fosters each year, thousands of boys and girls who need it to for the customer, we have established the Digital Banking complete their studies, pass their matriculation exams, and be Division. The Division was set up to enable the Bank to be drafted for meaningful military and national service. best prepared for the considerable challenges facing it, and it represents a further significant step in the digital banking The Bank’s strategy is characterized by a broadand longrevolution we have been leading in recent years. By means term perspective, with the ultimate aim of serving the best of the Digital Banking Division, we will significantly upgrade interests of all the stakeholders in the Group, both now, and in the customer experience, and provide them a transparent the future. To our perception, doing business is not complete service, with a friendly and intuitive user interface and at a very without contribution and involvement in the space in which attractive price. Among other things, the Division will manage we operate, and we are proud to lead a financial organization the operations of the Digital Bank, after the set-up process is which advocates for community action for the last 113 years, finished in 2016, as an innovative banking platform without and applies it on a daily basis. branches, which will enable customers to manage their entire David Brodet Rakefet Russak-Aminoach financial life through digital channels only. Customers may choose the most suitable type of banking for them, according to Chairman of the Board President & Chief their style, character, and needs. of Directors Executive Officer Corporate Responsibility Report 4 TABLE OF CONTENTS 5 6 26 44 Introduction Economic Creating Impacts and Value for Responsible Customers Management 70 100 116 Creating Creating Promoting Value for Value for the Responsible Employees Community Procurement 124 140 148 Creating Corporate External Environmental Governance Assurance Value and Indices Corporate Responsibility Report 6 INTRODUCTION 7 BUSINESS PROFILE The Leumi Way: Vision, Core Values and Ethics The new business, social and economic environment led Leumi Group in 2013 to review and restate its vision and its core values, in a way that reflects the change process it has gone through in recent years. In an organizational-wide process shared by managers and employees, the Group vision was rephrased in one sentence: “TO CONDUCT PROACTIVE AND INNOVATIVE BANKING FOR THE CUSTOMER” We strive to design a dynamic business environment that combines the Bank’s values with product and technological innovation. An environment that will be a place where our customers can find the best and most suitable response to their financial needs, while aiming for adequate profitability, maintaining the stability of the Bank, and creating a balance between the needs of the employees and the shareholders. As a financial group with major influence on the business and public culture in Israel, we see our commitment to the community as a social and value-driven base that we will continue to cultivate. The five core values of the Bank are: THE CUSTOMERS ARE THE SHARING EXCELLENCE CORE OF OUR WORK The customers are at the core of our We live in a reality that places the The challenges and the changing activity. They expect professional, value of sharing in the foreground. reality obligate us to strive quality, courteous and efficient To produce a force multiplier, we will constantly for improvement and service, so that at the moment of cooperate among and within units, for the achievement of better truth we will be there for them with each of us thinking “Leumi”, results. attentively to them with suitable and and thus ensure the achievement of As employees of the Bank, useful value propositions. our goals. In addition, we will show excellence for us, is knowing that openness and courageously share our work has contributed to our our opinions, our thoughts, and our customers and created business ideas. value for the organization. YES WE CAN” MODELING Yes we can is a global concept Each and every one of us is a role allowing new ideas to grow and model for someone. come to fruition. This is a global We must aspire to ensure that in concept that values and respects every activity that we do, we shall be those dealing with challenges and a personal example to those around focuses on action, but also may us. involve possible errors, out of recognition that only he who dares, wins. Corporate Responsibility Report 8 INTRODUCTION 9 Business Description1 on the highest standards and on Holdings, and Leumi Capital Market uncompromising professionalism. Services in Israel, and Leumi USA, Leumi is the oldest banking The Group subsidiaries Leumi Card, Leumi UK, and Leumi Romania corporation in Israel and one of the the Bank’s credit card company, overseas. leading and largest corporations Arab Israel Bank, Leumi Partners in Israel and the Middle East. In addition, Leumi has holdings – that serves as the investment Leumi Group operates currently through its investments in nonarm of the Group, and Leumi 268 branches throughout Israel financial corporations as detailed in Tech – the high-tech arm of the in addition to offices at the major the chart of holdings below Group, together with the Mortgage financial crossroads worldwide. The Function and the Trust Company, headquarters of the Bank and the allow customers to benefit from a Head Offices are located in Tel-Aviv. whole range of banking services Ownership structure Leumi Group provides quality and products. Bank Leumi Le-Israel is a limitedbanking services to all types The activities of Leumi and the liability public company whose of customers, starting with principal subsidiaries reviewed shares are listed for trading on the households, through small and in this Report represent more Tel-Aviv Stock Exchange. medium businesses, and ending than 98%2 of the total activity with giant corporations. These As of March 24, 2012, Leumi of the Group in Israel. The Group services are provided via dedicated is defined by law as a banking owns other subsidiaries that business lines, suitable for all corporation without a controlling supplement the basket of services customer segments, and are based core and no shareholder is defined for customers, such as Leumi Real as a controlling owner of the Bank. Bank Leumi’s Business Lines Below is a Chart of the Major Investee Companies and Investments of the Bank: Bank Leumi’s operates in Israel through dedicated business lines that specialize in providing banking and financial services to all customer segments. This specialization allows the Bank to provide professional The Bank service customized to each customer. Headquarters units of Leumi provide support to the core business divisions. The subsidiary companies in Israel and the offices abroad are allocated to the relevant business line in accordance with the nature of their activities and the characteristics of their customers. Capital Market & Banking & Finance Financial Services Non-Banking Retail Banking – provides Commercial Banking specializes activity of the representative office Consolidated Consolidated Corporations Companies comprehensive banking services in providing banking and financial are of a marketing nature according Companies to private customers and small services to middle market to the license. businesses. This business line also companies. The organizational manages the advanced services structure of this business line is Capital Markets this business line Leumi Card Ltd. Companies included of Leumi Digital – Leumi’s online unique in the banking system and manages the activity of institutional Israel Abroad on equity basis In the available 80.0% for sale portfolio banking, which includes the internet enables the Bank to provide a companies and foreign banks and Arab Israel Bank Ltd. Bank Leumi USA Leumi Partners Ltd. The Israel Corporation Ltd(3) website, Leumi Call Center, apps for comprehensive “one stop shop” to provides leading financial solutions TSI Highways Limited customized to the customers that 99.7% 99.8% 100.0% 17.96% Partnership 18.9% smart phones and tablets, the Total its customers. Digital Account, and the information operate directly with the dealing Leumi-Tech Ltd. Bank Leumi (UK) plc Leumi Capital Market Super-Pharm (Israel) Ltd. 99.5% 15.0% kiosks adjoining the branches. Private Banking – coordinates the rooms. In addition, this line is 100.0% Service Ltd.100.0% activity of high-net-worth private responsible for operating all capital Leumi Finance Co. Ltd. Leumi Private Bank (2) Bank Leumi Le-Israel Avgol Industries 1953 Ltd. Corporate Banking – deals with customers in Israel and abroad. market activity of bank Leumi 100.0% 94.8% Trust Co. Ltd. 100.0% 20.0% project support and financing of the The bank operates through unique customers. Leumi Real Holdings Ltd. Bank Leumi Nilit B.V. large business customers and multiPrivate Banking centers in Israel that 100.0% (Luxembourg) S.A. 100.0% 20.0% national corporations, including provide service to Israeli-resident Mortgages Mortgage activity entrepreneurial and contractor and non-resident customers. focuses on loans for the purchase Bank Leumi Romania S.A. companies involved in large projects of residential housing, all-purpose 99.9% in the area of real estate and International Banking – provides loans against the pledge of infrastructures. Among other things, commercial banking services to property, and loans to purchasing (1) Voting rights 99.8% those managed in the Corporate private customers and Israeli groups. Mortgage representative (2) Voting rights 98.6%. After the balance sheet date, the rate of holdings and voting rights is 99.84%. Department and the Construction companies operating in international offices are distributed throughout During 2014, agreements were signed for the sale of operations in Switzerland and an arrangement for participation with Bank and Real Estate Department are markets. This activity includes the Israel and provide a range of Julius Baer. customers whose business activity Bank’s offices in the U.S.A., United services – beginning with planning For further information, see Chapter “Material agreements” below. Kingdom, Leumi Romania and Leumi the mortgage and ending with is complex, whose business is (3) Voting rights 18.13% . In February 2015, the Bank sold 6.9% of the equity of the Israel Corporation. As a result of the sale representative office in Shanghai, the mortgage-taking process and international and / or whose activity of the company’s shares, the shareholding percentage fell to 11.1%. For information regarding the waiver of the rights to appoint China, which supports customers refinancing existing loans. directors, see below Chapter “Operating segments, companies included on equity basis”. is managed in several of the Bank’s overseas offices. of the Bank who are interested (4) The company was merged with and into Bank Leumi on 4 January 2015. in activity in China. The areas of 1. G4-17 2. By contribution to the net profit of the Group Corporate Responsibility Report 10 INTRODUCTION 11 Significant changes occurring during the reporting period · Merger between the Bank and · Procurement, Construction “Leumi Finance Company Limited” and Logistics Division: On 15 was completed in January 2015. June 2015, the Procurement, Bank Leumi le-Israel B.M. Organizational Stucture The merger is intended for a Construction and Logistics business and economic purpose Division was canceled and and its aims, among other things, responsibility for procurement, Board of Directors are to bring about significant construction, maintenance and David brodet savings in expenses and properties was transferred to the Chairman operating costs. Head of the Finance Division. · Changes in the international · Digital Banking Division: deployment: The Bank decided On 1 January 2016, a new to exit international private Digital Banking Division will be President & Chief Exective Officer banking operations, including the established reporting to the Rakefet Russak-Aminoach closure of the vast majority of President and Chief Executive CPA (Ist.)(1) the Bank’s representative offices Officer. The establishment of abroad, the sale of the Bank’s the Division will be a further office in Switzerland, and exiting substantial step in the digital operations in the Luxembourg revolution. The Division will office. In 2014 the Group closed upgrade significantly the representative offices in France, customer experience and provide Germany, Canada, Chile, Hong them with a transparent service Deputy Chief Kong, and the representative in a user-friendly and intuitive Exective Officer office of the Swiss office in interface and at a very attractive Prof. Daniel Tsiddon(1) Israel. At the end of 2014 the price. Georgetown (Cayman Islands) Internal Risk Legal Human Corporate & International Finance Banking Leumi branch was closed and the Bank Audit Management Division Resources Commercial Cradit & Devision Devision Technologies Leumi branch in Panama ended its Devision Devision Hanan Division Devision Real Estate Division Mordechay Friedman, Danny Yaakov Devision Ron Fainaro Tamar Dan business activities. CPA (Ist.)(1) Yassur(1) Sasson Adv.(1) Cohen(1) Haber(1) Yoel Mintz(1) Yerushalmi(1) · Sale of the operations of Leumi Switzerland (Leumi Private Bank) Accounting to Julius Baer: In March 2015, Capital Markets Devision the sale was completed of the Shlomo Goldfarb Devision operations of “Leumi Switzerland” Itai Ben Zeev(1) CPA (Ist.)(1) to “Julius Baer”a leading private banking group in Switzerland, Commercial group with Leumi working to exit private Compliance Credit Marketing Investment Corporate Special Construction Private Mortgages & Risk Advertising Counseling Yitzhak Shmuel Loans & Banking Amir Lazar Secretary banking operations in the Bank’s Enforcement & Spokesperson Einat Naor Arbel Osnat Real Estate Shaul Yael office in Switzerland. Most of Zeev Skornik Tannenbaum, David Shneider (Ben Morag Adv. Schellner Moshe) the customers of the office were Rudnicki, transferred to Julius Baer. Adv. · Private Banking Division: In January 2015 an organizational (1) Member of Management as of July 2015 change was carried out in which the Private Banking Division in Israel was transferred to the responsibility of the Banking Division. · Arab Israel Bank: In May 2015 the Leumi Board of Directors announced the merger of Arab Israel Bank with Bank Leumi. The merger will take effect on 1.1.2016. Corporate Responsibility Report 12 INTRODUCTION 13 Subsidiary Companies and Deployment of Operations3 Offices Overseas5 90.8% of the activity of the Leumi Group is concentrated in Israel and 9.2% of its activity is conducted outside Israel4. Leumi Group provides financial services overseas to Israeli business customers, local business customers, The Head Office of the Group is located in Israel. international organizations active in Israel and local Jewish communities. The primary target population of the Group overseas is business firms. Leumi Group operates in ten countries, including the most important financial centers worldwide: New York and Arab Israel Bank Ltd. The banking arm of the Group catering for the Arab population in Israel. The London. Activity is carried out through a network of 41 branches and representative offices. Bank operates through 37 branches that are a significant part of the www.aibank.co.il banking system in the Arab sector in the North of Israel and the Northern Triangle. Arab Israel Bank is a private company with 99.7% of the share Bank Leumi US (BLUSA) The largest office of Bank Leumi abroad is engaged mainly in commercial banking. Its capital owned by Leumi and 0.3% owned by 18 shareholders from the Arab main activity is the financing of middle market local companies and Israeli companies www.leumiusa.com sector. The Bank ended 2014 with a net profit of NIS 100.4 million, compared operating in the United States as well as private banking for US and foreign residents. with NIS 106.5 million in 2013. On 1.1.2016 the Arab Israel Bank will merge The Bank operates branches in four states: New York, Illinois, Florida and California. into Bank Leumi. Bank Leumi USA ended 2014 with a loss of $50 million (a profit of $15 million excluding expenses related to arrangements with authorities abroad), compared with a profit of $11 million in 2013. Leumi Card Ltd. The company is engaged in issuing, clearing, operating credit cards, payment solutions and financial products. By the end of 2014, Leumi Card issued more Bank Leumi UK (BLUK) The largest bank in the UK under Israeli ownership, continuing the Group’s activities www.leumi-card.co.il than 2.36 million credit cards of the Visa and MasterCard brands, including that began in London in 1902. The Bank is engaged in commercial and private www.bankleumi.co.uk bankcards in cooperation with Leumi and Arab Israel Bank, and non-banking banking, and mainly in financing of real estate in Britain and Western Europe and cards for customers of all the banks. Leumi Card provides clearing services financing Israeli companies active in the UK. The center of the Bank’s activity is in for some 40 thousand businesses throughout Israel, offering them financial London. The office has subsidiaries a banking subsidiary in Jersey, a trust company solutions such as loans, discounting vouchers, and pre-payments. 80% of its in Jersey, and Leumi ABL, which operates mainly in the field of discounting receivables. shares are held by Bank Leumi, and 20% by the Azrieli Group. The company The net profit of Bank Leumi UK in 2014 amounted to £7.6 million compared with a ended 2014 with a net profit of NIS 200 million, similar to 2013. loss of £5.4 million in 2013. Bank Leumi Romania The only bank in Romania under Israeli ownership operates 21 branches throughout Leumi Partners Ltd. The investment banking arm of the Leumi Group that provides non(BLROM) the country. The bank’s main activity is commercial and includes real estate financing, banking growth solutions, such as Leumi Group’s investments in companies, financing Israeli customers operating in Romania, and the financing of local small and www.leumipartners.com www.leumi.ro underwriting, research, mergers and acquisitions, and the raising of all kinds medium businesses. Bank Leumi Romania ended 2014 with a loss of Ron 51 million of capital or debt. Leumi Partners integrates its capabilities through a unique compared with a profit of Ron 2.1 million in 2013. merchant banking platform. In 2014, the company reported a profit of NIS 308 million, compared with a profit of NIS 226 million in 2013. More information on the activities of the additional subsidiaries and investee companies, branches, agencies and representative offices of the Leumi Group worldwide can be found on the Leumi website: www.leumi.co.il. Bank Leumi Le-Israel Trust The company provides a selection of trust services in three main business Company Ltd. areas, allowing all of its customers to enjoy sophisticated customized Membership in Organizations and Associations solutions, both for business and personal needs: Private client trusts – setting up private trusts, managing public religious trusts, estate management and Bank Leumi is a member of the Association of Banks. By virtue of this, the President and Chief Executive Officer of managing real estate property; business client trusts – holding shares in trust, Leumi and the Chairman are members of the Executive Committee of the Association of Banks. In addition, the Bank is collateral trusteeship and escrow transactions; and trusteeships in the capital a member of the Public Companies Authority. The Trust Company is a member of the Board of Trustees of the Israeli market area – trusteeship for bonds and ETN’s. The net profit of the company capital market. in 2014 amounted to NIS 0.9 million, compared with NIS 2.4 million in 2013. Bank Leumi Romania is a member of Romania’s Association of Banks, which is part of the European Banking Federation. The Chief Executive Officer of Leumi Romania is a member of the Board of Directors of the Association. Bank Leumi UK is a member of the British Bankers Association and has a representative in the Operating Committee Leumi-Tech Ltd. (previously Leumi The company works to promote the activity of Leumi Group in the area of of the Association of Foreign Banks. Leasing and Investments Ltd. banking services to high-tech industry. Within this framework, the company is engaged in, among other things, professional support for all Group companies www.leumitech.com in Israel and abroad, deepening ties with industry, building and expansion of banking services and creating infrastructure for knowledge. The net profit of Great the company in 2014 amounted to NIS 9 million, compared with NIS 22 million The Britain Romania in 2013. United States Israel 3. G4-17 5. G4-17 4. According to the total balance sheet of activity overseas and in Israel. Corporate Responsibility Report 14 INTRODUCTION 15 Ensuring the Reliability of Reporting This is Leumi Leumi Group takes care in ensuring the reliability of reporting in the corporate social responsibility reports issued in accordance with the guidelines of the GRI, and done so since 2009. The Group attaches great importance and value Group first report to this process, and considers it an educative process that helps to constantly improve information gathering and reporting, and meets the requirements of stakeholders for transparency and credibility in reporting. in accordance Within this framework, there are three controls in the current Report. with the GRI:G4 standard at the · Process Control – to ensure application of the correct process: · Ensuring the reliability of the reported data: has been made by Assurance Engagements) to carry out engagement to comprehensive made by the consultancy company of the BDO Ziv Haft accounting the accounting firm KPMG Somekh Chaikin which are external and ensure reliability which is not an audit or a review of historical level of reporting firm and included full support independent experts that act financial information (Assurance of the program to implement also as joint auditors to the engagement other than audits corporate social responsibility in shareholders in the financial or reviews of historic financial the Bank, including work on this statements. A representative of information). This standard was report. Leumi Management approved the developed by the International ABOUT THE REPORT6 engagement with the external Auditing and Assurance Standards · Materiality disclosure check to auditors. The assurance was Board (IAASB) of the International ensure proper identification performed in regard to the Federation of Accountants (IFAC). This is the sixth Corporate Social Responsibility Report of the Leumi Group, written in accordance with the fourth of issues: the GRI organization fact that the reported material The standard emphasizes the generation guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) organization at the Comprehensive level of reporting. carried out an independent issues which were examined comprehensive processes for The report contains all the items in the appendix for companies from the financial sector, and includes a report in external monitoring of this report, did not include a substantial gathering supporting evidence accordance with the principles of the UN Global Compact (UNGC) Initiative. A list of the principles with references to and studied the process for error, and this, in part, by and independence of the person the appropriate pages appears on pages 149-160. identifying material issues for comparing to relevant information carrying out reliability assurance. reporting (Materiality Disclosure sources, conducting interviews The standard outlines the steps Service). This procedure tested with executives in the bank to be taken and the conditions Leumi Group maintains continuity in not in contradiction to information and the Group. In case of any the method of identifying the management and matching to required from the party carrying reporting to the stakeholders. The presented by the Group in past discrepancy between that stated in material issues in the report, and existing data as described on out reliability assurance that Group’s last report was published years. this report and these reports, the the reference of the organization page 148 in the Independent is limited in scope, in order to in late July 2014 and thereafter the version in the financial statements is to all indicators that are required Limited Assurance Report. guarantee that they will be able The data in the chapter on “Creating Group intends to report once a year. binding. to meet the highest reporting to carry out reliability assurance Value for the Environment” refers to level (G4: In accordance: The external assurance was relating to the conduct, processes the environmental performance of The content of the report below are Comprehensive). (For more details performed in accordance or information relevant to the Leumi, Arab Israel Bank and Leumi also published on the Corporate Contents of the Report7 see page 16). with ISAE 3000 Standard report. See page 148. Card, which employ about 92% of all Social Responsibility website of the (International Standard on This Report refers to the activity positions in the Group (as defined Leumi Group – Leumi Plus of the Leumi Group in the areas of in this Report) and are a source of plus.leumi.co.il. corporate governance, the economy, 86% of its income. society and the environment in 2014. Leumi Group 2013 Corporate Social Terms Except as otherwise indicated, Responsibility Report was ranked at the First this Report refers to Leumi Group We use the term “Leumi Group” or activity in Israel and overseas. “the Group” when describing the place in Calcalist ranking In Israel: Bank Leumi, Arab Israel activities of the entire Group, as Bank, Leumi Card, Leumi Partners defined in this report. We use the and the Trust Company; overseas: term “Leumi” when describing the as of 2014, the Report includes activities of Bank Leumi only. We the international activity of the mention the names of subsidiaries organization as well – Bank Leumi and offices abroad when we Contact person Acknowledgements Published August 2015 USA, Bank Leumi UK (excluding its describe the activities that take Hadas Eytan, Corporate Our thanks to all the parties Professional Consultancy: The subsidiary companies), and Bank place in these companies only. Responsibility Manager of the in Leumi and the subsidiaries Sustainability and Corporate Social Leumi Romania. Leumi Group engaged with the management Responsibility Group at BDO Ziv Haft This report is a Corporate Social Except where otherwise noted, Responsibility Report for 2014 and promotion of Corporate Independent Assurance: KPMG Hadas.Eytan@bankleumi.co.il the data in this Report refer to prepared in accordance with the Social Responsibility content, who Somekh Chaikin the period from 1.1.2014 to GRI guidelines. The report is not Corporate Social Responsibility helped in the collection of data and website: plus.leumi.co.il. preparation of materials for the Graphic Design: Galit Azoulay 31.12.2014. The data are in part of the financial statements of complete agreement with other the Group or Immediate Reports report. reports issued by the Group, and are or Periodic Reports of Bank Leumi 6. G4-22, G4-23 7. G4-18 Corporate Responsibility Report 16 INTRODUCTION 17 IDENTIFYING MATARIEAL ISSUES FOR REPORTING8 The five Corporate Social Responsibility Reports published by Bank Leumi were prepared in accordance with the GRI-G3 guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative organization (the GRI), defining the guiding framework for reporting on the subject. In 2014, the Bank made a decision to report in accordance with the new reporting standard GRI:G4. This standard requires in-depth reporting only on issues identified as material to Leumi operations (compared with the previous standard that required reporting on a wider range of issues). Materiality Matrix of 2012 is a need to update and validate survey during 2014 on material the materiality matrix in light of the issues in corporate social The materiality matrix, which time that elapsed since its definition. responsibility reports of banks in reflects the importance attributed However, it was decided to use it as Israel. The survey examined local by Leumi stakeholders to the a basis, and to examine its validity and actual issues in the field of various issues of corporate social and congruence with the positions corporate social responsibility responsibility, was defined in late of stakeholders and representatives and sustainability in the banking 2012 in collaboration with major of the Bank prior to the writing of sector in Israel. The survey was stakeholders. The process of the current report. based on interviews with a range of building the matrix included the stakeholders who represent areas formation of a list of relevant topics of finance and banking, according in the field of corporate social to the areas of activity of Israeli responsibility. In accordance with The Process of Defining the Current Materiality Matrix banks, including representatives of the list, a survey was carried out customers, social and environmental among the groups of stakeholders: In the process of validation and organizations, the capital market, Leumi’s Board of Directors, Leumi definition of the updated materiality suppliers, the CSR community, and Management, about 400 employees matrix, the positions of external more. and some 500 customers, suppliers, and internal stakeholders were and representatives of social and examined in accordance with the C. Issues that arose in relation to environmental organizations. The list of issues set in the GRI reporting Leumi in the Israeli media Issues respondents were asked to rank the principles (aspects according to G4, that arose from media reviews issues on the list with reference to subject to the financial sector) and associated with the name of Leumi the importance they attach to each other issues identified as relevant during 2013-2014. of the topics listed. The materiality by Leumi. D. Corporate Social Responsibility matrix was published in the Group’s reviews of investors a review of corporate social responsibility Additional information sources that were integrated into the materiality Corporate Responsibility Reports report in 2014 of banks published in July 2013 matrix during the updating process: At the same time, Leumi’s conducted by the Meitav Dash performance was analyzed Investment House, which studied Leumi’s report in relation to its raising issues to be addressed in the regarding the various issues Validation of Stakeholder competitors. next report. These recommendations listed and cross-referenced with Positions: were taken into account when the materiality results. Hence, E. Bank staff positions as reflected defining the current materiality identifying the issues in which there A. GRI Research Material issues in the BDI survey examining matrix. is a big gap between the level of in the banking sector: The study the satisfaction of Bank Leumi importance attributed to them by “What do stakeholders want to employees in 2014. the stakeholders and the way that know? Banks, Diverse financials they are treated currently, and and Insurance” conducted by GRI F. Bank customer positions – Issues Validation of the Bank’s thus, a list of recommendations in 2012 presents a list of material identified as important in the eyes Positions: was formulated on the subject. issues that reflect expectations of customers in accordance with Survey of Corporate Social These recommendations were of various international the findings of customer surveys Responsibility Leaders in the Leumi presented to Leumi Management at stakeholders (e.g. businesses, conducted by the Leumi Marketing Group – In early 2015, an updated the beginning of 2013, and were civil society organizations, global Function. survey was sent to the parties taken into account when building representatives of the worldwide G. Summary of the external leading the field of social corporate work programs for corporate social financial markets, etc.). assurance on 2013 report: On responsibility in the Bank and the responsibility. completion of the assurance Group, who were asked to rate the B. BDO research Material issues In light of the transition to the new in the Israeli banking sector – process of the previous report, the materiality of the issues for the reporting standard (G4), the existing The Sustainability and Corporate auditors of the report, the Somekh Bank (based on their familiarity materiality matrix was reexamined. Responsibility Group at BDO Ziv Chaikin auditing firm, published a with the issue of corporate social The examination showed that there Haft conducted a stakeholder document with recommendations responsibility and the practice of it 8. G4-18 Corporate Responsibility Report 18 INTRODUCTION 19 in the Group). The Materiality Matrix and Issues for Reporting Building the materiality matrix In the validation process for the materiality matrix a list was generated of 58 subjects, divided into 19 areas. Depending on the weighting of the score given by the various stakeholders (customers, employees, suppliers, social and environmental organizations, media and audit entities) and according to the degree of importance of the issue as perceived by Leumi (Management, Board of Directors and CSR Leaders) for each area, a materiality matrix was built. The materiality matrix was approved by Bank Management, and indicated 11 groups of issues significant for reporting within the framework of the Corporate Social Responsibility Report in 2015. The diagram shows the division into two main groups: 1 1 Importance to Leumi Ethics and anti-corruption 12 4 2 Leumi 6 Dialogue with stakeholders and reporting on corporate responsibility Material 14 11 8 7 5 3 Integrating environmental and social considerations when granting credit 2 Issues 2015 18 4 Accessibility of services to disadvantaged and handicapped populations 17 13 3 High importance 5 Health, training and welfare of employees 15 10 (Reported) 6 Diversity in employment and equal employment opportunities 2012 16 9 7 Community involvement Management and Board 8 Making financial knowledge available of Directors 9 Energy consumption and carbon footprint survey 10 Economic performance 2015 11 Integrating environmental and social considerations in procurement processes Corporate 19 12 Customer privacy and security Social Responsibility 13 Conducting business fairly Leaders survey 14 Maintaining fair employment conditions for all employees Issues not of high importance (Not 15 Consumption of natural resources Importance to Stakeholders Reported) 16 Organization-wide management of environmental issues 17 Integrating environmental and social considerations in investments 18 Protection of human rights within the framework of the organization’s activities Stakeholder Stakeholder survey Issues in the media 19 Maintaining biodiversity in areas of operation Material BDO local research Customer opinions Issues 2015 External Assurance Bank employees GRI global research Investors representatives Corporate Responsibility Report 20 INTRODUCTION 21 Building the Chapters of the Report in Accordance with the Material Issues and Reporting Boundaries9 The GRI reporting guidelines in accordance with the G4: In accordance: Comprehensive standard require an implementation processes that will result in the reporting of only material issues identified by the organization. According to the guidelines the organization will present an organized management approach, work process that displays the organization’s commitment and objectives for the coming years, alongside a report on the organization’s performance metrics under the specific aspect (specific standard disclosures). The 11 issues identified as material (out of the 19 issues presented). The 11 issues include( as described below) 24 significant aspects according to the definitions of the GRI: G4 reporting standard. According to the standard, since the Bank identified 24 key aspects for reporting, these are by definition the aspects that have to be reported. Chapter Materiality Issue GRI Aspect Reporting boundaries 1. Economic Performance Within the organization Economic 10 2. Indirect Economic Economic Impact performance Within the organization and Responsible Impacts Management Ethics and Anti3. Anti-corruption and 1 Within the organization corruption Business Ethics 18. Procurement Practices Both 4. Product And Service Within the organization Labeling 19. Supplier Environmental Making financial Outside the organization Assessment 8 information 5. Marketing Integrating SocioWithin the organization Integrating socioaccessible Communications Environmental 20. Supplier Human Rights environmental Outside the organization Considerations 11 Assessment 6. Compliance Within the organization considerations in in Procurement procurement 21. Supplier Assessment for Processes Outside the organization Making services Labor Practices accessible to 4 disadvantaged 7. Non-Discrimination Both 22. Supplier Assessment for Outside the organization and handicapped Impacts on Society Creating Value for populations Creating EnvironEnergy consumption 23. Energy Within the organization Customers 9 8. Product Portfolio (sector mental Value and carbon footprint 24. Emissions Within the organization Both Integrating sociospecific aspect) environmental 3 9. Products and Services Both considerations in granting credit 10. Audit (sector specific Within the organization This structure reflects the details and breakdown of the Bank’s focus on dialogue with outside aspect) material issues for Leumi and its employment populations); keeping parties, periodic monitoring of their Dialogue with stakeholders. This framework customer privacy (including bank performance, and encouraging Stakeholders and 11. Grievance Mechanisms includes a full response to 58 secrecy and details of complaints); them to act responsibly). Some of 2 Outside the organization specific performance indicators and reporting on consumption of the issues have been defined as reporting on CSR for Impacts on Society issues (specific standard disclosures) materials (paper consumption and having significance both within the that fall under these 24 aspects, the scope of electronic waste). organization and outside it10. 12. Diversity and Equal alongside the 58 organizational Within the organization The full reporting Index is on pages Opportunity profile indices (general standard Diversity and equal 149-160 of this report. In addition, 6 opportunities in 13. Equal Remuneration for disclosures). In addition to these Within the organization Leumi defined, in relation to each employment Women and Men issues, elaboration was made on Creating Employee aspect, the reporting boundaries, three additional issues that were not Value 14. Market Presence Within the organization and whether its impact is within found significant in the materiality the organization (and then the 15. Training and Education Within the organization process but Leumi has found it Bank will focus on managing the Health, training, and necessary to report and elaborate 5 issue, coherent measurement employee welfare 16. Occupational Health on them in order to maintain Within the organization of performance, improving and Safety continuity of the reporting process performance, and control while and transparency on the issues of Creating Involvement in the setting targets) or is outside the 7 17. Local Communities Both responsible employment (including Community Value community organization (and then Leumi will 9. G4-18, G4-19, G4-20, G4-21 10. G4-18, G4-19, G4-20, G4-21 Corporate Responsibility Report 22 INTRODUCTION 23 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY MANAGEMENT IN Membership in Initiatives and Organizations in the Field of Sustainability and Corporate Social Responsibility THE GROUP Leumi and the subsidiaries have adopted leading standards in the area of sustainability and corporate responsibility in Israel and worldwide: Corporate social responsibility in corporate social responsibility goals Corporate Responsibility Manager of the Group is managed based on of the Bank and of the Group for the Group is a full-time manager. In an overall concept, strategy and the coming years. The Committee this role, she is responsible for the policy, led by the Leumi Board of discusses annually the report on execution of integration between Directors. The Resources Committee planning vs. performance of the all those involved in the field. The of the Board of Directors is also corporate social responsibility goals Corporate Responsibility Manager the Corporate Social Responsibility of the Bank and of the Group. works in full cooperation with the Committee. It is in this capacity managers of the units that have The area of corporate social that the committee discusses a professional interface with the responsibility is managed by annually the corporate responsibility field and with those responsible Leumi, Arab Israel Bank and Leumi In 2008, Leumi signed the Since 2011, Leumi has been the Training and Organizational management strategy of Leumi for corporate responsibility at the Card are members of the Maala principles of the UN Global included in the FTSE4Good Development Sub-Division of the and the Group, and its suitability subsidiaries and Leumi offices Organization and participate in the Compact Charter, a UN initiative Index – the index of leading Human Resources Division. The to the overall strategy of the worldwide. annual Maala Rankings. to promote social-environmental companies in performance of person responsible for Corporate Bank. In addition, the committee responsibility. Since then Leumi sustainability and corporate Responsibility is The Head of the In the 2014 rankings, the three discusses annually the corporate reports to the initiative and renews responsibility that is traded on Human Resources Division. The companies were given the highest social responsibility report and the its statement of support of its the London Stock Exchange. ranking – Platinum Plus. principles every year. Boars of Directors Resources Committee Human Resources Division Officer responsible for corporate social responsibillity Training Sub-Division Officer responsible for Procurement environmental issues Sub-Devision Corporate Social Responsibillity In 2013, Leumi joined the Carbon In 2010, Leumi joined the Since 2010, Leumi has Manager Disclosure Project (CDP) Initiative. voluntary registry for reporting been a member of the Sh’vil Leumi reports to the Initiative greenhouse gas emissions in Israel Organization, the Israeli Managing Community Arab Israel Bank with the aim of measuring and of the Ministry for Environmental branch of the Transparency environmental relations disclosing to the public the direct Protection. International Organization risks and indirect impacts of the Bank that is engaged in the struggle Corporate on climate change. against corruption and the Social promotion of norms of ethics Responsibillity and transparency. Leumi Recruitment and Occupancy Welfare Section Sub-Devision Desk Officers for Corporate Social Responsibillity in Subsidiary Desk Officers for Ethics Companies Socio-Environmental Products HQ International In 2014, Bank Leumi won the Diamond Mark Certificate from the Israel Standards Institute. The mark is awarded Operations to organizations that have at least seven quality standards, and which met all the stringent criteria and scrutiny of the Israel Standards Institute. The seven standards for which the mark was received are IS18001 (Occupational Corporate social responsibility training for managers Safety and Health), IS14001 (Environmental Management), IS50001 (Energy Management), IS20000-1 (IT Services At the end of 2014 and the beginning of 2015, special training was held for the first time for 25 managers who are Management), IS22301 (Business Continuity Management), IS27001 (Information Security Management) and the leaders of corporate social responsibility in Leumi units and subsidiaries. During the training, there were discussions Green Label indicating that the impact of the product or service on the environment is low. on the concept of corporate responsibility and trends in the field. Emphasis was placed on integrating corporate The award of a Diamond mark indicates the high capabilities of Leumi and provides its customers with added value responsibility in the business world with innovative tools, and additional tools were studied for measurement and and confidence that the Bank manages its operations properly, while constantly improving and striving for excellence. systematic reporting of the areas. Corporate Responsibility Report 24 INTRODUCTION 25 Dialogue with Stakeholders Leumi attaches great importance to maintaining an ongoing dialogue with its various stakeholders, and devotes many MEETING PRESENT AND FUTURE OBJECTIVES resources to the continuous expansion of channels of communication with them. The existence of a transparent, open and mutual dialogue allows the Bank to understand the needs and desires of stakeholder groups and enables it improve itself for them and to offer them targeted and accurate solutions. Company Objectives set for end of 2014 Status Explanation Dialogue with the stakeholders takes place through digital tools, conferences, individual meetings and telephone calls with customers, employees, suppliers, social and environmental organizations, regulators and investors. The manner of identification of the stakeholders and the issues arising in the framework of the dialogue with them are detailed in Publication of the Corporate the relevant chapters. In July 2014, the Group Corporate Social Responsibility Report Social Responsibility Report for was published at the A+ reporting level 2013 at the A+ reporting level Main Channels of Dialogue with Stakeholders11 During 2014, the treatment of the differences identified in the Continuation of treatment of materiality analysis was continued. Among other things, projects Stakeholder group Dialogue channels gaps in material issues for were carried out related to integration of environmental stakeholders as arising from and social considerations in procurement, projects to help Customers · Personal meetings with customers and with customers whose debt is in legal the materiality analysis customers in trouble and more. In addition, validation was Leumi proceedings carried out of the materiality matrix and updated work plans were defined for treatment of current gaps. · Customer satisfaction surveys · “Leumi Blog” and Group Facebook pages Implementing the G4 principles In 2014 and early 2015 the reporting infrastructure was set and preparations for reporting up in accordnce with the G4 guidelines. Among other things, · Public Enquiries Bureau according to this format an internal training program was prepared for corporate · Customer conferences social responsibility leaders. The 2014 Report was written in accordance with the G4 guidelines. Employees · Leumi Share – in-house portal for employees Initiating and supporting Implementation of several joint projects and processes in · Meetings between management and the employees’ representative body projects in conjunction with the field of corporate social responsibility in the Bank unit’s the business lines and staff began in 2014, including implementation of CSR procurement · Employee attitude surveys units processes and assistance programs for customers in debt. · Meetings of the CEO and Division Heads with employees Objectives for execution by · “Open Line” to Human Resources Division Management Main activities planned end of 2015 · Tours and meetings of the President and Chief Executive Officer and Initiating and supporting Assimilating corporate social responsibility criteria in the supply chain Management in branches and area managements projects in conjunction with (see chapter on “Integrating Socio-Environmental Considerations in Suppliers · Suppliers portal the business lines and staff Procurement“) units Employment placement program for customers in debt (additional pilot) · Personal meetings with suppliers Leumi · Suppliers and contractors conferences Expansion of activities in issues identified as material Leading processes for Social Organizations · Personal meetings with representatives of social organizations advancement and assimilation Implementing annual reporting processes of corporate social · Participation in forums and round tables Expanding discourse in the organization and making the report responsibility issues accessible to employees, customers and investors · Ongoing dialogue with community partners in the area of employee volunteering – voluntary associations, social organizations and welfare departments in local Arab Maintaining the Platinum Plus authorities Israel ranking in the Maala 2015 Bank Index Shareholders and Investors · Investor relations website · Conferences, group and individual meetings, personal conversations and Promoting corporate social quarterly conference calls on the subject of the financial statements See chapter on “Integrating Socio-Environmental Considerations in responsibility issues in Leumi Procurement“ procurement processes Regulation · Ongoing dialogue with the Association of Banks as the representative body of Card the banking corporations with the regulators Creation and implementation of activities on an organizational-wide · Attending Knesset Committee meetings, conferences and meetings with the Assimilating the vision and and unit basis. regulators values of the company See chapter promoting business ethics 11. G4-24, G4-25, G4-26, G4-27 Completed Partially Completed Not Completed 26 ECONOMIC IMPACTS AND RESPONSIBLE MANAGEMENT 1 Corporate Responsibility Report 28 ECONOMIC IMPACTS AND RESPONSIBLE MANAGEMENT 29 ECONOMIC IMPACT ON ISRAELI SOCIETY Leumi Group, as one of the largest banking groups in Israel, has expansive economic impact on the Israeli economy The Economic Value Created by the Bank in 2014 and the stability of the economy. Below is a table showing the economic performance of Leumi Group for the years 2011-2014: This impact is divided into two parts: Economic performance · Direct impact on the economy and society in Israel: the impact 2011 2012* 2013* 2014 stems from the Group being a Net profit for the shareholders of the banking corporation leading financial entity in the 1,891 922 1,982 1,502 (in NIS millions) economy, providing services to millions of customers, whose Basic net profit per share (in NIS millions) 1.28 0.63 1.35 1.02 business success is related to the social and economic strength Return on equity (%) 8.30% 3.80% 7.80% 5.50% of the community in Israel. Also, as one of Israel’s largest Dividend 0 0 0 0 employers, the Group also has an Profit and loss impact on employees and their families – in terms of employment, Total Group revenue (in NIS millions) 11,282 12,182 12,874 12,536 maintaining their safety and health, in their professional and Total operating expenses (in NIS millions) 8,341 9,120 8,892 9,311 personal development, and in Total expenses in respect of credit losses (in NIS millions) 734 1,236 268 472 promoting employment in various sectors. The Group’s impact is Profit before taxes (in NIS millions) 2,207 1,826 3,714 2,753 also reflected in the volume of its engagement with local and Total tax expenses – consolidated (in NIS millions) 418 800 1,397 1,281 international suppliers. Net profit attributed to shareholders of the banking 1,891 922 1,982 1,502 · Indirect impact on the economy corporation (in NIS millions) and society in Israel: the impact Operating efficiency ratio (ratio of operating expenses stems from the payment of 73.9% 74.9% 69.1% 74.3% to operating income (%) taxes to the State treasury, from financing of infrastructure Capital adequacy ratio (Tier 1) (%) – Basel II (in 2014 – Basel III) projects, supporting growth 8.07% 8.55% 9.32% 9.21% sectors (such as small businesses and the conversion of factories Assets to operating with natural gas), Total assets (in NIS billions) 366 376 375 396 involvement in the capital market, from services with social Operations and environmental value, local purchasing, hiring employees and Number of branches in Israel 269 278 274 268 from a financial contribution to Salary expenses (including provisions for pension) (in NIS millions) 5,061 5,310 5,133 4,968 the community. Leumi Group, as an organization Average annual salary to employee position including bonus 217.2 220.2 245.4** 225.3 that works within the community, (in NIS thousands) understands its responsibilities Annual cost of salary of the Chairman (in NIS millions) 3.12 3.30 5.24 3.08 as a body that can empower the Israeli society, deal directly with Annual cost of salary of the President & Chief Executive the weaknesses in society, and 6.04 5.16 6.29 4.13 Officer (in NIS millions) strengthen the entities that can Bank of the Year in Israel The Banker develop and implement appropriate * Restated pursuant to a change in accounting method for accumulating employee rights. For further information see Magazine, fifth time in the last ten years solutions. Leumi Group is deployed the financial statements for the year 2014, Note 1.R. throughout the country to provide The Best Bank in Israel World Finance the full range of its services and products to all its customers **Data for the year 2013 include the effect of the cost of employees of Bank Leumi Mortgages that was merged with Bank Leumi Magazine, fourth consecutive year wherever they are. Corporate Responsibility Report 30 ECONOMIC IMPACTS AND RESPONSIBLE MANAGEMENT 31 The Economic Value for the Stakeholders The Economic Impacts of Leumi Group by Selected Segments Below is a table showing the economic value created for the stakeholders of Leumi Group for the years 2013-2014: Strengthening Households and counseling and pension counseling. business sector, as defined by the Individuals Government of Israel12 and it is one As part of the value proposals Creating value for the stakeholders Total in NIS millions of the growth engines of the Israeli Leumi Group provides services to and services to these customers, economy. This sector provides work households and individuals through Leumi Group offers credit channels Customers 2013 2014 for 1.34 million people in Israel and the Banking Division at Leumi, the at preferential terms for special is responsible for 49% of GDP13. Arab Israel Bank, through Leumi sectors such as students, youth, and Total credit 283,793 311,551 Strengthening the survival of small Card, and through Leumi Private more. and medium businesses is important Banking. The Group offers these Private customers Household credit 106,698 116,578 The total of credit to households to strengthen the economy and customers advanced banking and individuals at the end of 2014 support the young population, the Of which: services tailored to their needs, 69,422 75,125 was NIS 116.6 billion, of which weaker sectors, and the peripheral mortgages while creating a multi-channel housing loans totalled NIS 75.1 areas. customer experience in branches, billion. Businesses (small, medium and large businesses) Credit 133,575 135,417 call centers, internet, mobile, Leumi Small and medium businesses information kiosks, and ATMs. Deposits from households and sometimes face bureaucratic Participation as distributor or underwriter of issues private customers in Leumi Group difficulties, lack of managerial Retail Banking works at continually through the subsidiary company Leumi Partners Value of issues About 16,500 About 14,000 at the end of 2014 totalled knowledge and limited access to improving the level of service and Underwriters approximately NIS 150.3 billion. credit. Many small and medium at tailoring value proposals to businesses find it difficult to cope Credit provided to different sectors of society in Israel and abroad customer needs according to the with conventional credit tracks due stages in the life of the customer. Strengthening Small and Medium to lack of capital or appropriate Infrastructure* The main products supplied to this Credit 25,178 27,592 Businesses financial collateral. population segment are checking Industry Credit account services, deposits and 99.3% of businesses in Israel In 2014, Leumi Group continued 23,603 23,304 savings, consumer credit, credit (514,000 businesses) belong to focus on these businesses and cards, mortgages, investment to the micro, small, and medium Commerce Credit 23,005 24,547 Agriculture Credit 1,825 1,939 The Changes in the extent of credit provided to different sectors of society (NIS Millions) Public and community services** Credit 7,848 9,277 27,592 Employees 25,178 24,547 Salary expenses (including provisions for pension) 23,603 23,304 5,133 4,968 23,005 Shareholders Return (net profit attributed to shareholders of the banking corporation) 1,982 1,502 Dividends distributed 0 0 Society and community 2014 2013 Tax expenses 1,397 1,281 Percentage of tax provision from the profit before taxes 37.6% 46.5% Donation to the community 25.6 29.4 1,825 1,939 7,848 9,277 In 2014, the Group did not receive any government support, except for a tax credit in respect of donations to the community. * Infrastructure construction, electricity, and water Infrastructure Industry Commerce Agriculture Public and Community ** Public and community services – hospitals, health services, social services, educational institutions and universities, community centers, sports bodies, museums and more. Services 12. Data for 2013, Central Bureau for Statistics, Annual Statistical Report 2014, Table 18.3 13. As of 2011 from: Periodic Status Report regarding Small and Midsize Businesses in Israel, the Small and Midsize Businesses Authority, September 2014 (http://sba.economy.gov.il/about/researches/pages/sba-israel2013-2014.aspx) Corporate Responsibility Report 32 ECONOMIC IMPACTS AND RESPONSIBLE MANAGEMENT 33 76.7 NIS 76.7 billion The total cumulative credit provided to small Strengthening the Capital Market The Group’s activity in the capital market includes investment consulting and pension consulting to retail customers, investment counseling for customers of the Corporate and Commercial Division, brokerage in securities, including activities carried out through the Israeli and foreign securities dealing rooms, activity of customers in the foreign currency and derivatives Relationship with Shareholders and investors The relationship with shareholders and investors is maintained through regular updating of the Investor Relations website, through conferences, group and individual sessions, personal conversations and quarterly conference calls regarding the financial statements. In the 2014 ranking of underwriting companies of Globes and DUN’S 100, Leumi Partners and midsize businesses area with market-making in the From the dialogue that took place Underwriters came at the end of 2014 foreign currency and derivatives with investors, the following second among dealing rooms; banking and material issues arose: financial services for entities active in the capital market, and brokerage underwriting initiated a number of measures in The services given include, among In recognition of the Israeli high· Excellence in financial favor of this sector, including the other things, ongoing financing tech industry as a growth engine and custody services. performance – Achieving companies in Israel Business School – see page 60. according to the customers’ of the Israeli economy, Leumi Through the activities of the leading risk-adjusted financial and was responsible needs, financing investments to decided to expand its activities in performance over time that meets Alongside the range of services maintain and expand operations, the industry as part of the Group’s Capital Markets Division and Leumi Partners, the investment arm of the the expectations of shareholders for 17% of the total and credit tracks, Leumi Group also offers unique tracks and providing solutions in the area strategy. For this purpose, Leumi Leumi Group, Leumi Group helps its and creates added economic of large offerings. of finance and international established Leumi-Tech a wholly customers manage risk and build value for all stakeholders. benefits for small business entities trade, financing and supporting owned subsidiary of Bank Leumi up their activity, creating growth operating in peripheral areas and · Corporate social responsibility national and international projects, Le-Israel, whose sole purpose opportunities for companies in the organizations engaging in social more and more institutional financing mergers and acquisitions, is to promote the financing and different stages of the business, activities investors take into account organizing syndicates, financial development of the high-tech and supporting mergers and Total credit provided to small instruments to hedge against industry in Israel and abroad, social and environmental criteria acquisitions. In addition, Leumi businesses at the end of 2014 currency risks, interest risks and while focusing on providing largewhen considering the possibility Partners is engaged in management was approximately NIS 24 billion changes in commodity prices, scale credit, for development of of investing in the company. and underwriting of offerings and the total credit extended investment services and capital products and software tailored to Sometimes, institutional investors (private and public) of securities in to the midsized business sector market activities. the industry and to establish it as a will begin the review process only the Israeli capital market. (commercial) at the end of 2014 focal point, and for the supporting after ensuring that the company Total credit provided to the large In 2014, Leumi Partners survey meets clear criteria of was approximately NIS 52.6 billion. and adoption of new technologies. business segment at the end of Underwriters, a subsidiary of Leumi corporate responsibility. A total cumulative of NIS 76.7 2014 was NIS 58.8 billion.14 Leumi-Tech offers companies an Partners, participated in public billion.14 envelope of solutions adapted offerings totalling about NIS 14 · Upgrading operational excellence Deposits of large businesses in Deposits of small and medium to their needs; global support billion, and led about 23 public achieving savings, streamlining Leumi Group at the end of 2014 businesses in the Leumi Group at in high-tech centers worldwide offerings totalling about NIS 4 and optimization by the allocation amounted to NIS 27.8 billion. the end of 2014 amounted to NIS in Silicon Valley (Palo Alto), New billion. In the 2014 ranking of of organizational resources in 92.8 billion. York and London; dedicated teams underwriting companies of Globes order to achieve the goals. that are well-acquainted with the and DUN’S 100, Leumi Partners Strengthening Israeli High-Tech industry and the financial needs Underwriters came second among Strengthening Large Businesses The high-tech sector in Israel of companies based on their type underwriting companies in Israel accounts for about 20% of GDP and and their current stage of business. and was responsible for 17%15 of Leumi Group provides banking and 30% of exports. Every year there are These teams help companies the total of large offerings. financial services to the leading 5,000 companies working in highaddress the challenges facing them. corporations in the economy, Deposits of institutional and tech and 500 new companies are In addition to financial tools, Leumiincluding corporations in areas such financial customers in Leumi Group established. However, most of the tech works in partnership with as construction and real estate, at the end of 2014 amounted to high-tech industry relies on foreign the main players in the industry to infrastructure, industry, transport, about NIS 32.5 billion. capital and most of the financing is maximize the benefits it can provide chemicals and technology. The equity. Leumi identified the need for to companies. ability of the Group to provide available Israeli capital to serve as financing and services to these a complementary source of funding corporations has made a crucial available. contribution to the growth of the economy. 14. This credit does not include off-balance sheet credit and financial instruments. 15. Ranking of leading underwriters 2014, DUN’S 100 Corporate Responsibility Report 34 ECONOMIC IMPACTS AND RESPONSIBLE MANAGEMENT 35 PROMOTING BUSINESS ETHICS Hotline is committed to reply to the applicants within 24 hours in At the beginning of 2015, a mandatory online tutorial was of Ethics will be updated and relaunched during 2015 order to receive more information distributed on the code of ethics, Leumi is Israel’s leading financial corporation and as such has a significant impact on the social and economic fabric about the call. and was carried out by 88% of the · Creating an ethics dialogue of the country. This realization led to Leumi’s worldview and the norms to which it is committed. “Leumi Way”, the employees. within working groups: Leumi Leumi Code of Ethics, was formulated in 2005 and was the first written code of ethics in the banking system in Israel. Card employees participate Arab Israel Bank on an annual basis in crossLeumi Card organizational activities on the “Leumi Way” is an expression of Head Ethics Committee on the behavior that promotes the Leumi Arab Israel Bank employees issue of the code of ethics and Leumi’s values and the spirit of the dilemmas arising in the units. The Vision. In addition, the subject participate on an annual basis in · Formulating a new vision: During on the subject of the prevention organization since its founding: Committee reports to Management, was integrated in employee cross sectional activities in the field 2014, Leumi Card’s management of conflict of interests. Training constantly striving to comply with discusses the dilemmas, and makes surveys and in processes for of ethics in coordination with Leumi. led a process of re-examination programs include the use of the highest criteria of ethical, moral recommendations. evaluating employees. At the same time, special activities of the Company’s vision and digital measures and frontal and responsible conduct with all are held in sub-divisions and values. As a result of this action, encounters. In 2014, as part its stakeholders. Leumi believe that · Integrating training programs: branches. a new corporate vision was of the review process of the an inspiring corporate culture and The issue of ethics is integrated Initiatives to promote In 2014, all branch and sub-division formulated for the Company and Company’s vision and values, a high level of ethical behavior are in training programs and business ethics in orientation days for new managers were given guidance in Company values were rewritten. employees and managers essential components necessary The new vision and values participated in focus groups in Leumi employees in the organization. In conveying the five core values to for the success of the organization. were approved by Company which the Company’s values and early 2015, a short video tutorial employees. In addition, branch ethics On this basis, we must examine Management and the Board of the gaps to be bridged in this · Implementation of the Code was produced on the subject. trustees were selected to serve as a constantly the changes in the social Directors of Leumi Card. The Code context were discussed. of Ethics in all units: Leumi source of knowledge in the field of and business environment to outline employees participate in cross · Development of charters derived ethics and helped to assimilate it. the desirable directions for the sectional activities related to the from the Code of Ethics for Group and ways of proper behavior. field of ethics on an annual basis. relations with stakeholders: In The Group operates in accordance In addition, specially adapted the spirit of the Leumi Code of with its defined Vision, Code of activities are held in Divisions and Ethics and with participation of Ethics and Core Values. The code units. In 2014, the Code of Ethics professional units, documents and obligates all those involved in was launched and implemented charters have been developed working for the Group: Members of in all units so as to encompass in recent years to regulate the the Board of Directors, Management most of the employees, through desired behavior in specific areas and all employees and is a virtual discussion forum on of activity of the Leumi Group. assimilated in all units of the Bank, the subject of values and their In this context were developed depending on the nature of their meaning. Some 4,200 employees a code of ethics for investment activities. and managers, led by Leumi consultants, a charter for Management, participated in relations with suppliers, a pension Leumi Group has to deal sometimes forum discussions. consulting charter, a charter for with issues of conflict of interests conduct in social networks, a in business and with customers. Launching the Code of Ethics was charter for ethical conduct in the The Group takes steps to identify in also carried out at Division level internet environment in Leumi, advance the possibility of situations in conferences on the subject of and a reserve soldier’s charter. of conflicts of interest and prevent the work plan and at the entire their happening. In all cases of · Appointment of ethics Group level at the Managers’ concern of conflict of interests, trustees in the units: Every Conference by the President and employees are instructed to act in unit in the Bank appointed an Chief Executive Officer. After accordance with Leumi procedures ethics representative, who is the launch, Division heads were on “Prohibition of Existence of responsible for the preparation instructed to formulate plans for Conflict of Interests”. of an annual work plan and implementation in the Divisions: The area of ethics is managed by in each Division, one of the five its implementation. In addition, the Training Sub-Division, which core values was selected as divisional ethics committees were is responsible for implementing a value on which the Division established, headed by an ethics the code of ethics, for training will focus, and implementation representative, whose job is to on the subject, for managing activities were conducted on discuss intra-divisional ethical the Ethics Hotline, for publishing assimilating the vision and values. issues. ethical dilemmas and distributing At the beginning of 2015, a mandatory online tutorial was · Ethics Hotline: The Ethics Hotline materials. The Training Subdistributed on the issue, and all is available to employees Division is also responsible for the managers in the organization by phone or email and they the Head Ethics Committee a chose the outstanding employees are welcome to contact it, cross-group body that meets in implementing the vision, serving anonymously or openly, for twice a year. Ethics representatives as a model for value-based advice on ethical issues. The of Group units report to the Corporate Responsibility Report 36 ECONOMIC IMPACTS AND RESPONSIBLE MANAGEMENT 37 Employees have several channels available for inquiries and reporting on ethical matters: The “hotline” for leaving voicemail anonymously, sending an anonymous letter, anonymous reporting on a form linked to the organizational portal, and sending email to: whistleblower@leumi-card.co.il MEETING PRESENT AND FUTURE OBJECTIVES (this option is not anonymous). Performance Ethics Hotline Company Objective set for end of 2014 Status Explanation Implementation of the Code of During 2014, the Leumi Ethics Launch and implementation processes for “Leumi Assimilation processes were carried out at the entire Ethics: In 2014, the revised Code Hotline received 45 inquiries, most Leumi Way Vision, Core Values and Ethics” for all the Group level and at the unit level. of Ethics was distributed to all of which were made for advice Bank employees in Leumi and the subject on issues related to conflict of was addressed by the President interests, as detailed in the chart Adapting the Group Code of Ethics to the In 2014 operations were performed in assimilating below. Arab Israel Bank organizational and cultural reality of the Bank the Group Code of Ethics among Bank managers and and Chief Executive Officer in the and its assimilation among employees employees Managers’ Conference and other events throughout the year. More Formulation of a new remuneration policy than two thousand employees pursuant to new directives of the Banking participated in frontal training on Supervision Department the Code of Ethics (“Conversation with Value”), and 66% of Leumi During 2014, Leumi Card’s management led a employees carried out a tutorial on process of re-examination of the Company’s vision the subject. Assimilation activities Refreshing the Leumi Code of Ethics in the spirit and values. As a result of this action, a new corporate Leumi Card of the revised Code of Ethics of Leumi vision was formulated for the Company and Company were held throughout the year in all the units of the Group. values were rewritten. The new vision and values were also approved by Company Management and In total, at least 80% of Leumi the Board of Directors of Leumi Card employees took part in various assimilation activities. Launch and assimilation of the revised Code Launching the new vision and Company values for the among employees employees took place in March 2015. The Code of Ethics will be updated and re-launched during 2015 Continued cooperation with the Leumi Ethics A representative was sent to the forum and training Leumi Partners Team and formulation of a plan to assimilate the as part of the formulation of a plan for assimilating new Code the Code Holding quarterly meetings on ethics with The Trust Company participation of all company employees Distribution of calls by Bank Leumi to the Ethics Hotline Objective for execution by end of 2015 Main activities planned in 2014 Continued assimilation processes of the “Leumi Leumi Way Vision, Core Values and Ethics” for the entire Bank 5% Working meetings with the CEO and Vice Eight meetings with participation of eighty to one hundred Arab Israel Bank President of Human Resources employees, as part of the assimilation process of the “Leumi 13% Way” Launch and implementation processes for the · The launching of the Company's vision and values in the 2015 vision, core values and code of ethics of Leumi Working Plan Conference Leumi Card Card for all employees of the Company · Launching the updated Code of Ethics 82% · Implementing training and intra organizational communication activities Defining a new code of ethics in the spirit of the Leumi Partners “Leumi Way” in accordance with the Company’s Conflict of interests activities Gifts Semi-annual meeting of Company employees on The Trust Company ethics Employee customer/supllier relations Completed Partially Completed Not Completed Corporate Responsibility Report 38 ECONOMIC IMPACTS AND RESPONSIBLE MANAGEMENT 39 Leumi aspires to manage environmental Environmental Risk with the analysis of the levels of risk involves a change in organizational Assessment characterizing different customers culture, training has been held for risk and to reduce it as far as possible, in accordance with their sphere a series of key sectors involved Leumi aspires to manage while maintaining ongoing dialogue environmental risk and to reduce it of business, level of assimilation in credit in Leumi, with the aim of of internal policy to reduce raising awareness of this issue. and cooperation with its community as far as possible, while maintaining environmental risk, and customer of customers, out of an understanding ongoing dialogue and cooperation compliance with the various legal with its community of customers, and regulatory requirements Leumi Card that steps taken in this direction are out of an understanding that steps in this regard. The element of long-term measures that benefit both taken in this direction are longexposure to environmental risks The Credit Policy Document of Leumi Card stipulates that the company customers and the general public. term measures that benefit both is currently presented as part of shall not finance activities resulting customers and the general public. the totality of risks that are taken into consideration in the Bank’s in a significant increase in exposure In compliance with the 2009 to environmental risks. Directive of the Supervisor of Banks, decisions involving extension of Leumi updated its credit policy in credit. RISK MANAGEMENT terms of managing environmental risk, and drew up a methodology in Since the assimilation of a process of identifying and managing this area. The methodology deals environmental risk in credit activity Leumi Group, being responsible for managing other people’s money, is committed to act responsibly while minimizing all kinds of risks. Leumi is engaged in a wide range of financial activities involving the taking of risks. Management of these risks is a prerequisite for meeting the long-term goals of the Group. The main objective of risk management in Leumi is to maintain the stability of the Group and compliance with the risk appetite, as determined by the Board of Directors. In addition, the goal of risk management is to support the achievement of the business objectives, while working constantly to upgrade the infrastructure of risk management and analyze the risk picture, enabling informed COMPLIANCE decision-making and expansion of its operations. Leumi Group is subject to a wide range of domestic and international laws, orders and regulations, including directives of the Supervisor of Banks. In accordance with the organizational culture of Leumi Group, compliance with The main responsibilities of the qualitative indicators of Leumi’s the risks of the Group, apart from legislation is incorporated in various work processes. Risk Management Division include portfolio and with reference to legal risks, which is under the deciding the risk policy of Leumi changes in the environment in which responsibility of Leumi’s Legal The Group assimilates procedures of US customers) and the ‘declared risk-oriented plan was defined for all essential risks, assisting the the Bank operates; implementation Advisor, and reputational risk that relating to what is permissible and money’ policy. He is also a partner in for treatment of new and existing Board of Directors in formulating of potential scenarios of varying is led by the Head of Marketing. what is prohibited for its employees the formulation of work processes, customers of the Bank, in order limits to the risk appetite of the severity assessment of potential The Risk Management Division in their duties, and preventing abuse developing new products and to obtain information that their Group, making an independent losses and their impact on is an independent entity with an of position or authority to obtain advising on complex transactions. money has been declared or is in analysis during strategic decision Leumi. Based on these scenarios, overall perspective that is involved benefit or personal gain. All Leumi the process of declaration. making and approval processes performed at both the overall level in decision-making on a real-time The Group’s commitment includes a Group employees are responsible for new products, and creating an of Leumi and specific types of basis. focus on a number of levels: · Reducing or Avoidance of for understanding the professional, overall and current picture of the activities and risks, an action plan is legal and ethical issues in their field Business Activities: In the Reporting to the Chief Risk Officer · Prohibition of Money Laundering risk so as to make decisions in real defined for dealing with risks. and for the proper behavior this framework of the Group’s risk are managers of credit risks, market and Financing of Terrorism: Banks time. entails. management and compliance The overall assessment of risks risks, operational risks, return risks, and other financial institutions are policy, several areas of activity Methods and working practices for Leumi, and at the level of an and the Head of Compliance. Risk The subject of compliance is often used to carry out actions have been defined where Leumi in the field of risk management in individual transaction carried managers in the subsidiaries in the responsibility of the Chief aimed at money laundering and aims to reduce or refrain from Israel and abroad are reviewed out, is based on many structured Israel and offices abroad report on Compliance Officer of the Leumi / or transfer of funds to terrorist business activities. These include, and updated regularly, taking into methodologies. Some of these a professional level to the Chief Risk Group, who reports to the Chief organizations, and hence the among other things, diamond account the changes occurring in methodologies are based on expert Officer. Risk Officer of the Group. The important role of the banking trade, gambling, Bitcoin and the business environment, as well assessments in each area of activity, Chief Compliance Officer is also system to prevent them. Leumi The Board of Directors of Leumi pornography. as the guidelines and requirements and others based on historical data responsible for preventing money acts in accordance with the determines the risk appetite, the of the Bank of Israel and other and various types of statistical laundering and financing of relevant legislation. criteria for risk assessment, and regulatory authorities in Israel and models. Changes in the risk terrorism and serves as head of the framework for working on · Declared money policy: The Bank abroad. The main tools used in risk environment globally and in Israel, enforcement of securities laws. The an ongoing basis. The Board of has adopted a “Declared Money management are: determination and changes in the perception of Chief Compliance Officer assists the Directors carries out ongoing Policy” which purpose is to deal of the risk appetite, defining, inter risk, require Leumi to update its Board of Directors and Management monitoring and supervision of with and mitigate the risks arising alia, policy and risk limits for each estimates and methodologies that to discharge their duties, comply the execution of policy and risk from the possibility that the type of risk; determination of it uses, while constantly challenging with and maintain the provisions developments, both in plenary funds managed and received by work processes for analyzing and all parties involved. of consumer legislation in various sessions of the Board of Directors the Group are not reported as managing the risk at the level of areas, including the prohibition of The Chief Risk Officer, who is a and in the sub-committees required by the tax authorities in the individual transaction and at money laundering and terrorist member of Management of Leumi designated for the various risks, the country of tax residence of the portfolio level; preparation of financing, securities law and and Head of the Risk Management the Risks Committee and the Audit the customer. In addition, under periodic reports for risk assessment, international regulation, within the Division, is responsible for managing Committee. the aforementioned policy, a on the basis of quantitative and provisions of the FATCA (taxation Corporate Responsibility Report 40 ECONOMIC IMPACTS AND RESPONSIBLE MANAGEMENT 41 Initiatives to prevent corruption, fraud and embezzlement Bank Leumi UK (BLUK) Leumi Whistleblower protection The Bank is committed to maintaining high Internal Audit: The Internal Audit Division is responsible for auditing all ethical standards. Bank employees of the Leumi Group, in all of its units in Israel and abroad, in accordance are subject to a consistent policy with a multi-year work plan, helping the Group in achieving its objectives. under the “Whistleblower Law” Audit sees its mission as an aid to the proper and effective operations of “(Public Interest Disclosure Act the Group, represents a management tool for supporting the managerial 1998 “The Whistleblowing backbone of the Bank, and assists the Board of Directors and Management Policy”). The law provides for in fulfilling their responsibilities. protection against dismissal and In accordance with Proper Conduct of Banking Business Directive No. 307, harassment for employees raising the Audit Division carries out an independent evaluation of the effectiveness concerns of improper behavior such of the Bank’s internal control framework, in order to increase the value and as corruption, crimes, and breach of improve the operations of the Bank and the Group. The functions of the duties prescribed by law. Audit Division are: In a letter distributed by the Human Resources Unit of the · An integrity check of the Bank’s operations concerning keeping the law, Bank, the main points of the Law regulation, policy and procedures of the Bank. were explained to employees and · An examination of the carrying out of decisions and directives of the Board the relevant parties in the Bank of Directors and its committees. to contact in order to report corruption. The Bank encourages its · Review and assessment of internal control systems and their effectiveness. employees to contact Management PREVENTING BRIBERY AND and pledges to maintain the · An overview of the implementation and effectiveness of risk management confidentiality of the applicant. The procedures and risk assessment methodologies. Leumi sees every one letter indicated other parties outside of its employees as a CORRUPTION · A review of the steps taken to maintain the Group’s assets, with an the Bank, who can be contacted if the applicant considers that an partner in the proper emphasis on savings and efficiency. appropriate response was not given Taking action against bribery and relevant units, which monitor management of the corruption: The Leumi Group is and track incidents of fraud and · Special inspections and handling complaints from employees in the context inside the Bank. bank. Accordingly, subject to regulation against bribery embezzlement regularly. When of unusual activity and the concern for impact on proper conduct or and corruption in every country in this type of event is discovered in integrity. Leumi expects all which it operates. Group employees Leumi an investigation is preformed, Bank Leumi Romania (BLROM) unusual action to be are forbidden to offer, guarantee, conclusions are drawn and systems Obligation to report any suspected Operation of reporting channels: Leumi sees every one of its employees reported immediately accept, or grant payment or any are amended accordingly. Incidents as a partner in the proper management of the bank. Accordingly, Leumi corruption: Within the framework other item of value, including are reported to the Bank of Israel, of maintaining responsible by employees to employment opportunities, including and if necessary to the Israel expects all unusual action to be reported immediately by employees to their conduct, Bank employees are their managers. Each employment opportunities, in order Securities Authority and the Israel managers. In addition, each employee, at all levels, can also contact and required to report to the Internal report any unusual activity related to banking work through other channels employee, at all levels, to influence the recipient to perform Police If wrongdoing of customers such as telephone, email, mail, fax, and any other way available to him. Audit Department any acts of any official act or refrain from it, occurred, the Bank will work with corruption committed or that can contact and report in order to cause the recipient to them to restore the status quo ante. may be committed. Referral Embezzlement and fraud risk review: The issue of corruption is reviewed any unusual activity engage in business with Leumi Prohibition on accepting gifts and once a year as part of the embezzlement and fraud risk review by Bank can be made both orally and in Group and / or to gain an unfair writing. The employee can choose related to banking work competitive advantage. The system benefits: The Group maintains a units supported by the Risk Management Division. All units of the Bank, including its subsidiaries in Israel, were reviewed during 2014 in order to whether to apply to the Head of strict procedure prohibiting gifts for engagement with suppliers is identify the risks associated with bribery and corruption. As part of the risk Internal Audit directly, by email or and benefits from customers, based on price, quality, availability, assessment on bribery and corruption, possible scenarios were analyzed. In by phone. Contact can be made suppliers and / or any other parties reliability, service and terms. Leumi every scenario, the quality of the existing control was examined in order to anonymously by using a dedicated with whom the Group has working Group makes every effort to avoid prevent it and set activities to minimize risk. In 2014, no material incidents application. The treatment of a relationships. Giving gifts, benefits discrimination among suppliers, of corruption, embezzlement or fraud were discovered except for an report is conducted in complete or special terms to customers will along with maintaining the best exceptional event of data theft and attempted blackmail. secrecy both by investigators and be made only in accordance to the interests of the Group, ensuring by Management. Information on Bank policy, by those authorized to Implementation of FATCA guidelines: As part of Leumi’s commitment to confidentiality of the information whistleblowing may be found on do so after due judgment. In any proper conduct and assimilation of FATCA guidelines, an extensive campaign that the suppliers provide and the Bank’s Intranet system, so that case of doubt, a consultation with was undertaken in 2014 for employee training and implementation of the making decisions on an objective it is accessible to all employees of and approval of the commissioner is guidelines. The compliance function, in cooperation with the Training Center, and impartial basis. the Bank. In 2014, there were no needed. initiated a move aimed at training employees, each according to his position, reports on incidents of corruption. Systems for monitoring and to act in accordance with the FATCA guidelines. prevention of fraud and embezzlement: Leumi Group has various systems, in the Corporate Responsibility Report 42 ECONOMIC IMPACTS AND RESPONSIBLE MANAGEMENT 43 Business continuity and preparedness for extreme LEGAL PROCEEDINGS AND UNUSUAL EVENTS DURING situations As part of Leumi’s preparedness for THE REPORTING PERIOD extreme situations, Leumi examined Incident of attempted blackmail: In November 2014, together with the Israel Police, an attempt was thwarted of the potential consequences of an blackmail led by a former employee of Leumi Card, who claimed that he had details of credit card data of the company’s earthquake scenario, as sent by the customers, and sought financial consideration for the same. This event was dealt with by the involvement of the Israel Bank of Israel within the framework Police and the Bank of Israel from the beginning. As a means of control, monitoring was activated of all credit card of reference scenarios defined transactions and no unusual activity was observed in the cards. At the same time, in accordance with procedures in by it. In addition to the potential such cases, the company prepared for various scenarios in order to prevent any damage to the customers. Throughout consequences, the business and the event, the company was careful to avoid causing any damage to customers. operational aspects of the scenario were practiced; an estimate was Arrangement with the U.S. DOJ a total of $270 million, without a · Development and implementation made of anticipated losses and the authorities criminal conviction or restriction on of an effective program to ensure services and resources that could the Group’s operations in the United compliance with the FATCA In 2011, the Bank was informed States. In addition, Leumi Group provisions, both in Leumi and in be affected within the framework of that an investigation was being paid NYDFS a civil monetary penalty its subsidiaries, while assimilating the event; measures were examined carried out against the Bank Leumi of $130 million. An investigation internal controls to prevent for maintaining continuity of service Group by the U.S. Department of is pending by the SEC against the potential abuses. and actions were determined to Justice (DOJ) in connection with the Group. minimize the damage. · Closing all accounts in Leumi Performance Group’s activity with customers who The arrangements relate to the The Bank’s preparedness for an are taxpayers in the United States Group of customers who refuse to Raising Awareness to the Prevention of Corruption (hereinafter: “the U.S. customers”) of responsibility of Leumi Group only sign the FATCA forms. emergency scenario of this kind is a suspected breach of Federal law in and are in accordance with US law. During the year, the issue of corruption was communicated to Group good. An extreme event does not the United States. The arrangements do not provide any · Opening new accounts for US employees, managers and members of boards of directors as part of the endanger the Bank’s business, but exemption for officers or employees customers only if it is ensured communication activities of the revised Code of Ethics. In addition, the its impact is significant: foreign As part of the investigation, the in the Group, past and present, that they are declared and will following was circulated to all Leumi employees: currency liquidity in particular, Group cooperated with the U.S. and do not obligate the officers or be subject to reporting to US provisions, earnings, capital, and authorities in furnishing information employees of the Group. authorities by Leumi Group. · Online tutorial on compliance and money laundering: This tutorial also in terms of public and political and in the required procedural outlines the actions, work practices and regulatory requirements that pressure on banks. proceedings, according to that Even before the completion of the · Appointment of an independent should prevent cases of corruption. 83% of Leumi employees successfully permitted under the law. As part of investigations conducted against monitor in Bank Leumi USA completed the tutorial. In accordance with Bank of Israel the Group, and as part of the directives regarding the objectives this cooperation, and in accordance (BLUSA) for a period of one year, with DOJ directives, an independent arrangements signed with the said whose role is to examine the · Procedure for the prohibition of existence of conflict of interests: Once of essential services that Leumi is US authorities, Leumi carried out required to provide in an emergency and comprehensive examination of Bank’s compliance plan, including a year, Leumi employees are required to declare that they are not in a several key actions to meet the (business continuity management, the Group’s activity vis-à-vis the U.S. policies and work processes in situation of conflict of interests while performing their duties. In the event new regulatory requirements of the the Supervisor of Banks: Proper customers was carried out by an this context, to ensure they meet that the employee declares a conflict of interests, the issue is sent for international private banking world. Conduct of Banking Business), international firm of accountants. the requirements of the law in review by their manager. deployment and drills were carried These actions include, among others: the United States and the State of In 2014, the Bank was informed · Online tutorial on the subject of FATCA: 88% of Leumi employees New York. out in Leumi to provide the services that, in addition to the aforesaid successfully completed the tutorial. · Adoption and implementation required and the Bank is prepared investigation, the Securities & Leumi estimates that, as a result of of a strict “declared money to continue providing vital services Exchange Commission (SEC) also the above actions, and mainly due · Information about the channels for reporting illegal or unethical activity. policy” in order to ensure that to customers. opened an investigation of a to the adoption and assimilation new funds transferred to the suspected breach by the Group of the of a “declared money” policy, the · Advisory Law: Mandatory annual online tutorial on the subject of securities Bank from various countries by securities laws in the United States, Bank’s customers most of them laws. 86.6% of employees successfully completed the tutorial. foreign resident customers, are and an additional investigation was foreign residents – closed accounts declared by the customers in their opened by the New York Department and withdrew money from the Bank countries of origin. In addition, of Financial Services (NYDFS) in totaling over US$ 3 billion, starting under the aforementioned policy, connection with the Group’s activity in 2011 until close to the end of the a risk-oriented outline plan was regarding the U.S. customers. period of the financial statements of defined for dealing with existing the Group for the year 2014. On 22 December 2014, Leumi Group customers of the Bank, to ensure signed arrangements with the DOJ that their money is declared or is More information on the subject may and the NYDFS, pursuant to which it in the process of declaration. be found on pages 228-232 of the admitted, inter alia, that from 2002 financial statements of Leumi Group and until 2010, the Group had · Exiting international private for the year 2014. willingly assisted in the preparation banking operations, including the closure of most of the Bank’s In 2014, no fines were imposed on and submission of false tax returns representatives outside Israel, the Leumi in respect of failure to comply to the U.S. tax authorities in breach sale of operations of the office with laws and regulations relating of US law. of the Bank in Switzerland and a to services and products (Consumer In accordance with the agreements decision to exit operations of the Directives), except as part of a that were signed, Leumi Group paid Luxembourg office. settlement with US authorities. 44 CREATING VALUE FOR CUSTOMERS 2 Corporate Responsibility Report 46 CREATING VALUE FOR CUSTOMERS 47 LEUMI’S WAY OF DOING BUSINESS Nowadays, the Israeli customer expects banking to be fair, available, accessible, and transparent. The customer has high consumer awareness and is in contact with other consumers, especially through social networks. The customer accesses information and uses services through a variety of digital and physical channels and expects a unified service experience through the various interfaces with the Bank. The customers are at the core of our activities: they expect professional, quality, courteous and efficient service, so that at the moment of truth we will be there for them – attentive with appropriate and useful value propositions. Leumi customers are at the protecting privacy and refraining intended for the use of qualified heart of the daily routine of the from discrimination and customers as defined in the Group’s employees. The various prejudices. Investment Counseling Law. In Fair, responsible service standards enable the addition, the dealing rooms provide and professional Group’s employees to nurture and a solution to the Bank’s branches in strengthen the relations with their performing broker deals in Israeli management of the Initiatives to preserve fair customers and to build mutual trust, business and foreign securities on behalf customer’s money, with the goal of continuing to be of customers who are not directly their preferred choice. Delivering a linked to this activity. while understanding Leumi high quality customer experience is Traders in the dealing rooms uphold their needs and to understand the customer’s needs, Commission-free track: As part of his individuality and to provide a the Bank’s commitment to fairness, the rules of fair competitiveness attending to their customized basket of solutions and Leumi offers a variety of fee and and respect for competing entities banks and non-bank brokers. wishes, is at the core account management tracks, services without discrimination of any kind. The group is obligated to allowing its customers to choose Furthermore, traders in the dealing of Leumi’s operations. maintain a professional approach the value proposition best suited to room are highly cognizant of all In order to achieve the regulatory rules and the rules when verifying the customer’s them, particularly the unique service launched in 2012 – Leumi Total of professional ethics. These issues this objective the Bank needs. Digital that enables independent are given emphasis and managerial first and foremost Fair, responsible and professional attention by all relevant entities management of the customer’s digital account management via the Internet and direct channels, without – the Head of the Capital Markets maintains fairness and money, while understanding their direct channel commission fees Division, the Manager of the transparency. needs and attending to their wishes, and other benefits as outlined in Securities Trading Department and is at the core of Leumi’s operations. the Bank ‘s list of commission rates managers of the dealing rooms. In order to achieve this objective the (customers will not be eligible for Bank first and foremost maintains Fairness in capital market any additional, personal, sectoral, or consultancy: Investment consulting fairness and transparency. This year, other benefit). as always, the Bank took various at Leumi is done professionally measures to comply with the Fairness in capital market activity: and objectively, in accordance with principles that guide its operations trading activity in the securities customers’ needs, and subject to in this matter: dealing rooms is carried out vis á all relevant provisions of the law. vis customers who are associated Leumi’s consultancy always places · Creating a tailored customer to performing direct activity in the best interests of the customer experience. each room, in accordance with as its top priority and operates the framework of the activity according to high professional · Maintaining transparency determined by the business person standards. Leumi constantly aims and providing all necessary in charge of the customer in to minimize potential conflict of information to customers about the relevant business line. As a interests of investment consultants the products and services general rule, customers associated vis-á-vis their customers, and in available to them. to carrying out direct activity in cases where it is impossible to securities in the dealing rooms are completely eliminate conflict of · Maintaining banking interests, the customer is fully qualified customers as defined in confidentiality and the protection disclosed in this regard. Leumi the Investment Counseling Law, and of customer privacy. investment consultants operate possess a high level of knowledge and understanding with regard to professionally and with full · Fair sale of financial products and the relevant capital markets. transparency in accordance with the services to customers. Bank’s Code of Ethics for Investment Analysts in the securities dealing consultants and in line with “Leumi’s · Maintaining the Bank’s strict rooms prepare micro and macro Way”. ethical principles, as well as reviews and analysis on Israeli and preserving human dignity, foreign securities. This analysis is Corporate Responsibility Report 48 CREATING VALUE FOR CUSTOMERS 49 Code of Ethics for investment offering them the financial solutions consultants: In 2011, Leumi became best suited to them. Leumi invests the first in the Banking system considerable effort in providing to launch a code of ethics for its customers with service when investment consultants. The code, and where they require it, and based on “Leumi’s Way” sets out continuously improves accessibility Leumi App: clear rules of operation regarding to customers across all channels The removal of an identification field. what is permitted and prohibited (branches, call centers, website It is now possible for customers for consultants, and reflects the and Leumi App). Leumi believes that to enter their account after two uniqueness, the sensitivity and its duty is to be pro-active with identification fields instead of the complexity of the investment customers and reach out to them three, with the aim of improving the consulting profession. The code when identifying financial solutions customer experience. helps the consultant prepare for that are suited to them. providing personalized service to customers, with sensitivity and caution in managing their money, Leumi SmartWatch: insight into their specific needs, Mobile Check Deposit: A smartwatch app allowing Products and services to improve presenting the full picture, with customers to view current the customer experience: In 2013, Customers can deposit a transparency and sensitivity to a account balances and the Leumi Group launched a number cheque using their cellular conflict of interests. The Arab Israel of innovative services, aimed at phone without the need to Cash by Mobile: credit card debits (up to Bank also implemented the Code of five cards) and to receive improving service and the customer go to the branch. Cash withdrawals via a cellular Ethics for investment consultants. alerts relating to their experience, During 2014, additional phone instead of a card Fairness in advertising: Prior account (depending on the services were launched. to all advertising, the legal customer’s “Leumi on Time” These services enable households service package). advisors examine its integrity, and small business customers to including in relation to regulatory save time and help them manage requirements, reputation and ethical their accounts sensibly and with considerations. an awareness of important events in the account. These services Instant Balance Check: include, for example, mobile check Initiatives to improve the deposits, a quick account balance Customers can check their customer experience check, a SmartWatch app, mobile account balance on their cellular cash withdrawal, fully opening phone without going into their Leumi believes that the creation of of an account on the Internet, account and without the need for high quality customer experience identification questions for business identification. is based on a deep understanding of the customers’ needs in general customers, a call center for and particularly in moments of businesses, a service for booking a truth. This understanding of the return call and saving a place in the customers’ needs, through listening queue in Leumi Call, an automatic and in-depth questioning, allows service to assist customers in the Bank to provide customers with carrying out transactions on the high quality professional service, website, and more. sms 001 Leumi Trade: “Best capital market website” – Webi Awards competition 2014 for the ninth sms Cash withdrawals without consecutive year. a card via SMS Leumi Trade: “The website with the best usability and customer experience in Israel” – Webi Awards competition 2014, for the second consecutive year Leumi: “The organization with the best digital platform in Israel” – Webi Awards 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report 50 CREATING VALUE FOR CUSTOMERS 51 The digital assistant: An innovative topics: In 2014 periodic customer is based on the principles of service that helps Leumi customers satisfaction surveys included, for accessibility and availability to manage their bank account on the Internet and on their mobile phone. The personal digital assistant reminds and updates customers, inter alia, on events in their first time, specific reference to processes performed by customers, such as password recovery, website registration, receipt of a card, etc. These surveys are designed to the customer, inviting dialogue, openness and transparency. Activity in digital media channels allows the Leumi Group to conduct direct and continuous dialogue 100,000 surveys accounts, without having to register obtain feedback on the processes with customers, include them in to the service and at no cost, defined as important to the processes, understand the issues thereby saving time and facilitating company regardless of specific that are significant to them, and act the management of the customers’ interaction with a representative, accordingly. These measures help Customer Satisfaction with the Service In 2014, about bank account. with the purpose of improving and to increase the trust between the In 2014, about 100,000 initiated surveys were conducted that monitored the 100,000 initiated streamlining them. Group and its customers. satisfaction of Leumi customers with the service they receive in the branches. The surveys use different metrics, in accordance with customer type and the surveys were Israel Arab Bank Leumi customers can express their opinion and refer to the topics under Leumi’s focus. For example, this year, under examination were conducted that Leumi’s availability to its customers; its response time to customers’ queries; In 2014 the digital cellular service Cooperation and Dialogue products and services of the Bank, its initiative, flexibility, understanding and familiarity with its customer’s needs; monitored the was updated to improve the with Customers offering ideas for streamlining and satisfaction of personal attention; the professionalism of its bankers etc. customer experience; the Bank’s call development, and consult with center service for customers was Dialogue with customers in the digital media and on social experts in designated blogs and in Leumi customers also upgraded. networks the financial arena, all done quickly, The following table sets out the results of the overall satisfaction survey (on with the service openly and without the need for Leumi Card Leumi’s activity on social networks intermediaries. a scale of 0-10) they receive in the Customer surveys on specific and in digital media channels Unit 2011 2012 2013 2014 branches. Bank Leumi – Banking Division 8.54 8.46 8.51 8.86 Bank Leumi Bank Leumi Leumi Call 8.89 8.88 9.02 8.67 Bank Leumi – Leumi Direct 8.23 8.3 8.25 8.13 Monthly average of 641 customers’ service enquires on Monthly average of 450 service Not yet enquries on Leumi’s Facebook page Bank Leumi – Corporate 9.13 9.06 8.74 conducted the service app of Leumi Card on Facebook Bank Leumi – Construction and Real Estate 8.93 9.24 9.32 9.14 641 Service Enquries 450 Service Enquries Bank Leumi Commercial 9.1 9.09 9.04 9.05 Bank Leumi – Private Banking in Israel 8.49 8.56 8.35 8.36 Not Bank Leumi – Private Banking Overseas 8.71 8.84 9.06 conducted 150,000 friends on the Leumi Digital Facebook page Arab Israel Bank (weighted satisfaction score) 7.97 8.08 8.45 8.35 1. The survey of the Corporate Function will be carried out in the second quarter of 2015. 2. It was decided not to conduct the survey set for the summer due to “Operation 150,000 Friends Protective Edge” and the reduced number of visits in Israel. In cases of exceptional results, Leumi monitors and deals with this through quality control and in the detection of failures and ways to correct them. In addition, branch staff contact customers at their own initiative in order to learn About 22000 friends on the from positive feedbacks, understand the reasons for customer dissatisfaction Leumi Business page on Facebook and how to improve the service. Leumi encourages and strengthens the 207,000 Friends on the Leumi Card Facebook page focus on service and the customer experience by training employees and by continually measuring the customers’ satisfaction with the service. 22,000 Friends 207,000 Friends Leumi Card In 2014, some 12,300 initiated satisfaction surveys were conducted among Leumi Card customers (telephone surveys and surveys conducted by email). After analyzing about 5,000 of these surveys, the main results obtained are as follows: 3,700 followers on Twitter · 29% of Leumi Card customers indicated that the service they received was beyond their expectations. · 60% of customers indicated that the service met their expectations. 3,700 Followers · 64% indicated that the service representative showed very high personal responsibility in handling their enquiry. Corporate Responsibility Report 52 CREATING VALUE FOR CUSTOMERS 53 Subject of complaints received in Leumi Group, 2014: MEETING PRESENT AND FUTURE OBJECTIVES Employment Protection of Marketing and Services and Conditions and Other Total Privacy Communication Products Company Objective set for end of 2014 Status Explanation Employee Rights In 2014, no increase was Complaints Justified Complaints Justified Complaints Justified Complaints Justified Complaints Justified Complaints Justified measured in weighted An increase in the level of satisfaction of the Bank’s satisfaction. The objective Israel Arab Bank customers, as to be measured in surveys was placed as a two-year Leumi 30 19 5 4 816 237 2 1 69 7 922 268 * objective and is earmarked for execution in 2015 Leumi Card 3 1 50 4 476 39** 0 0 529 44** Objective for execution by end of 2015 Main activities planned Measuring in customer satisfaction surveys the Israel Arab Leumi extent to which the value of “the customers are at 3 0 1 1 37 5 1 0 9 51 6 Bank the core of our activity” is implemented Overseas 1 0 0 0 55 11 0 0 56 11 Branches*** Completed Partially Completed Not Completed Leumi 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Partners Trust 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Company Handling Public Enquiries Percentage of Justified Complaints Over Time in Leumi The Public Enquiries Bureau which Group Companies Total 37 20 56 9 1384 292 3 1 78 7 1558 329 reports to the Legal Counsel Division, helps management to get 50% *Of which 58 are partially justified. feedback on the quality of services 40% ** Of which 8 are partially justified. provided by Leumi. Enquiries reach *** Not including BLUSA. the Bureau in several ways: directly 30% 29% The Public Enquiries Bureau did not handle complaints about customer discrimination. from customers, or via entities such 20% 20% as the Bank of Israel, the Israel 10% 12% Consumer Council, the media, the 8% Office of the President of the State 0% 0% of Israel, offices of members of 2011 2012 2013 2014 the Knesset, Leumi employees, and others. Leumi Leumi Card Arab Israel Bank Enquiries received by the Bureau are Leumi Trust Company Leumi Partners Overseas Offices checked in depth and are handled with concern and professionalism, Total Leumi Group and with all the units of the Bank – employees and management – In 2014 the data also includes overseas offices (Bank Leumi UK and Bank Leumi recognizing the importance of Romania) dealing with enquiries. The units of the Bank are measured by how they handle customer complaints, and the Bureau assists the branches to provide optimal solutions to customers, and raise with the business lines and management those issues that require improvement on a broad basis. In 2014, Leumi Group received 1,558 complaints, of which some 329 were found to be justified. Corporate Responsibility Report 54 CREATING VALUE FOR CUSTOMERS 55 ACCESSIBILITY OF FINANCIAL KNOWLEDGE Initiatives to increase customers’ financial knowledge Leumi Group strives to provide all its customers with advanced financial tools for the purpose of establishing an economic infrastructure that will have an effect on their personal, professional and business development. Development of digital tools for The Group works at all times to address its customers’ expectations, while maintaining the highest level of Promoting the financial improving customers’ financial professionalism, providing high quality service, an attentive ear and personal attention at all junctures of business information in the ultrabehavior and knowledge decisions and opportunities. Orthodox sector: Workshops in These tools include the Leumi business In 2014, ten conferences were Financial orientation is closely management. In this way, the · Development of additional personal budget community on Facebook, the financial forum held for the ultra-Orthodox related to the subject of consumer Group not only strengthens the channels for the customer: The management on Leumi Blog, short video lectures on financial sector aiming to provide protection. A considerable part trust of its customers but also the group’s commitment to provide issues on the YouTube page, tools for personal In 2014, workshops customers of this sector with of the population is not aware of public’s perception of the financial tailored banking services to all budget management and a mortgage guide. in personal budget tools in home economics the financial products and tools sector as an expertise in the area customers motivates the Group management for management and help in available to them for managing and promotes the involvement of to make accessible the products customers were held managing the family’s finances. finances wisely. At various stations employees in the community they and services it offers. The Leumi in their life, consumers are faced operate. Group is working hard to develop at conferences at the with a wide range of needs, and digital tools that allow customers branches. often have to make decisions to independently carry out that may contradict their financial Management of the area focuses on banking operations, to enrich situation or lead to the payment of two levels: their financial knowledge and 7 superfluous management fees and increase their freedom of action Financial guidance for commissions. This unawareness · Strengthening the customer’s to perform such activity when and Customer conferences, ‫הנגשה של ידע‬ and misunderstanding of financial financial knowledge: a better where it suits them. courses and training youth (14-18): ‫פיננסי בלאומי‬ products may adversely affect understanding of financial issues sessions In 2014, some 20 financial the reputation and trust given may lead to an improvement in guidance conferences for youth the economic situation, especially Customer conferences in the to the Groups’s companies by its were held throughout Israel. for young people. The access of divisions enable the Bank to customers and the communities in the Group’s customers to financial establish a focused and meaningful which the Group operates, and thus knowledge enables them to dialogue with its customers, broken Leumi attaches great importance to independently balance between down into relevant groups and Arab Israel Bank providing tools on this subject to its their needs and their financial sectors. In customer conferences, customers. The bank’s employees give capabilities in the short-term important information is presented Pension consulting services Therefore, alongside the related to managing the family lectures on financial issues and the long-term, in matters The Bank offers suitable customers management of customers’ money, budget and the business and to various Arab populations, such as pension, saving trends, a comprehensive pension advisory the Group works diligently to equip the financial tools available to including students, women information on the capital market, service which is professionally its customers with the knowledge customers. The conferences offer and the elderly. housing market, and more. tailored to the customers’ needs and and tools for informed economic customers the opportunity to increase their knowledge in relevant their plans for retirement. areas and improve their personal and business transactions. Corporate Responsibility Report 56 CREATING VALUE FOR CUSTOMERS 57 ACCESSIBILITY FOR THE DISABLED Leumi Blog Financial Forum Mortgage Planning About 18% of Israel’s population have physical, sensory (vision and hearing impaired), emotional and/or mental App disabilities. This group numbers some 700,000 people for whom accessibility is critical. In other words: this may constitute a barrier to consuming services. (According to data from “Acess Israel” organization) About 8 new Surfers are invited to A variety of Accessibility is a way to overcome use of facilities and participation services and facilities in accordance columns are ask Leumi’s experts calculators, these barriers. According to the in programs and activities held in with the customers’ various needs. published per questions on various guidebooks and video Equal Rights for Persons with these facilities, and all this in an According to service accessibility month in the matters: the capital clips to assist in Disabilities Law, 1998, “accessibility” equal, respectful, independent and regulations, the Leumi Group is Leumi Blog. market, mortgages, mortgage planning. means: “The possibility of access safe manner.” working to make all of Leumi’s financial consumerism An average of About 2,500 app to a place, including movement and branches accessible by October and business, digital All companies in the Leumi Group some 20,000 downloads each orientation within; the use of and 2017, as well as all banking and innovation. provide in a meticulous manner, entries per month. month. benefit from the service; receive information services in accordance equal, respectful and considerate 416 calls were information provided or produced with the timetables set out in the service to all its customers, including received. in the framework of the place or regulations. customers with disabilities. This is service or related to them; the in addition to the accessibility of 5 Minutes on… Personal Budget Initiatives for making services accessible to individuals with disabilities Management Accessibility: Full accessibility was made in 59 (bathrooms, Inductive loopset: A device that Information and training About 50 videos Total number of users customer service workstations, can block background noise for employees: In 2013 an on the “5 minutes in the personal budget ATMs, informational and and the transmission of what accessibility site was launched on...” channel in management service directional signs, passageways, the banker says directly to the on the Intranet with detailed Leumi Digital on on Leumi’s website: Forms with large font: In 2014 etc.). In addition, the user hearing device of hearinginformation about the different Youtube with some 200,000 a pilot was carried out for interfaces at public stations impaired customers – this types of disabilities and the over one million accounts. printing forms with large font, were made accessible and was installed in about 150 unique services that Leumi viewers. followed by the development adjustments were made to branches. offers to the disabled. In of an infrastructure for printing the Leumi-queue system to addition, an implementation and forms with large font. This service support customers requesting training program was built for has been offered to the Bank’s service at an accessible station. all employees and courseware customers since April 2015. Leumi operates to disseminate was developed for implementing information on accessible accessibility of service. MEETING PRESENT branches. AND FUTURE OBJECTIVES Arab Israel Bank: In 2014 10 seven branches were made Objective set for Accessibility for ATMs: A accessible, in line with a threeCompany Status Explanation “talking ATM” system was year work plan. Accessibility end of 2014 installed in 99 ATMs. In includes physical and operational Ten conferences addition, a user interface accessibility of service. were held was developed with a clearer Economic and financial throughout Israel display, and the required support to the family Leumi for the ultracontrast level, the height of unit in the ultraLeumi Card: In 2014 Leumi Card Orthodox sector of a ATMs was adjusted for use by Orthodox sector. worked to improve customer workshop on family short people and those sitting budget management. in a wheelchair, and more. accessibility. For example, measures Voice operated guidance taken by the company in the last Objective for Accessibility trustees at system (Step Hear) that year: accessibility of the company’s execution by end of Main activities planned branches: Accessibility trustees serves as a “voice signboard” Internet website, creating alternative 2015 ‫ראו גם פרק מעורבות עובדים בקהילה‬ were trained in the branches was installed in about 110 ways of answering the telephone Work Procedures: Adjustments of the Bank and accessibility branches. and accessibility of information Economic and financial Ten conferences will be held were made to procedures and to customers, adjustments in the coordinators were appointed support to young for students and twelve to provisions for providing company’s call routing system and from the aspects of construction Leumi people and the ultraconferences for the ultraaccessible service refreshing the subject of accessibility and service. In addition, Orthodox sector. Orthodox sector on budget to all the company’s employees. bankers in the branches have management. been trained on the subject of accessibility. Completed Partially Completed Not Completed Corporate Responsibility Report 58 CREATING VALUE FOR CUSTOMERS 59 MEETING PRESENT AND FUTURE OBJECTIVES Leumi Group is Company Objective for end of 2014 Status Explanation working to make all Accessibility of the user interface at public stations. of Leumi's branches accessible by October Adjusting the Leumi-queue system to support customers 2017, as well as all requesting service at an banking information accessible station. services in accordance Full accessibility of at least 50 additional branches in line with the with the timetables set service accessibility regulations. out in the regulations. Installation of TTS systems in at least 100 ATMs and in 60 public Performed in ATMs only Leumi stations. Performance The subject of accessibility in the Bank is measured by seven indicators that examine the extent of the branch’s Accessibility of 60% of the bank’s In 2014 a designated product was examined and physical accessibility and the accessibility of services provided at ATMs: internet websites according to the purchased for accessibility of the bank’s websites. AA accessibility standard. The product will be assimilated in 2015-2016. · Easy access to the branch · Accessible signage Send postal messages in large Development of the product has concluded. · Elevator or wheelchair lift font as per the customer’s Printing houses need to make the necessary request. preparations. · Handicapped restroom · ATM Possibility for enlarged font on The service is offered to customers since April · Inductive loopset at the banker’s work station forms used often. 2015. · ATM software text-to-speech (TTS) Training bankers at branches on issues of accessibility. Accessibility of 15 branches in In 2014, 7 branches were made accessible. By Physical Accessibility Service Accessibility Arab Israel Bank aspects of physical and service the end of 2015, 15 additional branches will % of Fully accessibility. be made accessible. Accessible Branches, Parking Accessible Easy Elevator or Restroom Inductive Talking Including Objective for execution by end of 2015 Main activities planned No. of Access Accessible Wheelchair for the ATMs Loopset ATM ATMs (at Branches for the Workto Signs 61 additional branches to be made fully Disabled Sations Lift Disabled Devices TTS 31.12.2014) Expansion of the number of accessible Branch accessible so that the number of accessible branches to 120 branches will total 120. No. 231 93 136 136 126 136 136 136 150 99 59 The TTS system to be installed for voice Leumi A total of 200 ATMS to be made accessible support. Leumi % 86.2% 40% 59% 59% 55% 59% 59% 59% 65% 43% 26% Accessibility of 60% of the Internet pages on the Bank’s websites according to accessibility standard AA. No. 37 7 16 25 16 0 25 25 25 25 7 Israel Arab Including conducting accessibility surveys at Bank branches intended for accessibility, accessibility % 13.8% 19% 43% 68% 43% 0% 68% 68% 68% 68% 19% Physical accessibility of an additional 15 to passageways, adjustment of elevators, branches. Arab Israel services to the disabled, service stations, Total in % 268 37% 57% 60% 53% 51% 60% 60% 65% 46% 25% Bank waiting areas, signs and entrance doors. Group Including the distribution of accessibility Service accessibility in an additional 15 accessories: templates for checks, clipboards branches. and earphones, inductive loopsets, accessibility 82.4% of employees were briefed by means of courseware on the subject of ATM machines. of accessibility. Completed Partially Completed Not Completed Corporate Responsibility Report 60 CREATING VALUE FOR CUSTOMERS 61 PROMOTION OF SMALL BUSINESSES Leumi’s small business sector is characterized by providing financial services and financial value offers to businesses with a turnover of up to NIS 5 million. These offers and services are provided to customers according to their changing needs. The Bank defined small businesses as a population that needs to be focused on, and accordingly launched Leumi’s business arena a basket of exclusive and innovative tools and services. The arena consists of four worlds of content: A world of credit: credit products tailored to the needs of small businesses. A world of availability and service: Available professional and fast service at flexible hours through a business hub manned by professional bankers providing solutions also during hours when the branch is closed. A world of digital tools: receiving information and carrying out operations in the business account anywhere, anytime and through a variety of media such as the Internet, mobile and tablet. A world of expertise and content: customer management tools via different medias (see School of Business Management, Business Community on Facebook ) Main initiatives in promoting small businesses: Business School: In 2014, Leumi launched the whose businesses were harmed during Operation “Business School” in cooperation with “Tafnit” the Protective Edge. Loans of up to NIS 100 thousand, Open University’s school for managers. As part of 50% of which was guaranteed by the Koret Fund. the project, some 500 Leumi customers, with small MEETING PRESENTAND FUTURE OBJECTIVES and medium-sized businesses from around the · Leumi and the Bureau of Tax Advisors assist small country participated in a free vocational course of businesses in the south following Operation 25 academic hours in which they acquired a variety Protective Edge: Free consultancy of a tax Company Objective set for end of 2014 Status Explanation of practical tools to help their business grow and consultant from the Bureau of Tax Advisors in all develop. The course was held at eight locations matters relating to direct or indirect compensation Development of tools and providing knowledge In 2014 Leumi’s Business School Leumi across the country, ensuring adequate deployment in from the State covering the economic harm caused to small businesses concluded its first year of operation. peripheral areas. to businesses as a result of Operation Protective Edge. Objective for execution by end of 2015 Main activities planned Assistance to customers during operation “Protective Edge”: Operation Protective Edge, that paralyzed Leumi Fund for Small Businesses: In 2013, Leumi · Credit products for small businesses business activities in southern Israel for two months launched a special fund, in the amount of NIS 3 billion, · Two additional years of Leumi’s Business School in the summer of 2014, left the economy in southern to provide a solution to small businesses with good Israel with many problems. During and also following business feasibility, whose collateral and / or equity Continued expansion of value propositions to · New credit card for businesses is not sufficient for credit in the amount requested. Leumi the operation, Leumi initiated several actions to help small businesses · “Leumi comes to you” process: Hundreds its customers and residents of the south: The Fund grants loans to small and medium-sized of managers “go into the field” to make an business with better terms. Since it is an independent acquaintance with customers and provide a · “Kulanu Darom” (we are all South) web site: After fund of the Bank, without Government guarantees, its quick business response. businesses in the south suffered many financial response time is fast and it can approve loans within losses during the operation, Bank Leumi, McCann just 14 business days from the date of presenting all Leveraging and expanding cooperation advertising Group and the Israeli Post Office relevant documents. with the Koret fund, loan initiative for any initiated the project “Kulanu Darom” an online Arab Israel purpose provided to small and mediumplatform allowing any business owner from the The Fund provides loans of up to NIS 1 million per Bank sized businesses, loan initiative for small and South to offer their merchandises to residents year for small businesses at attractive interest rates. medium-sized businesses to purchase a private throughout the country. The site that was set up The review process and loan approval is done in car. was actually a “digital mall” allowing business cooperation with business consultancy companies owners to increase awareness of their business and is built with an emphasis on speed of response. and the circle of their potential customers. The Broadening the variety of innovative solutions Leumi-Koret program to promote small business in Launch of Leumi Card’s digital package for offered to the company’s business customers, site is open to all businesses in the south, without Leumi Card periphery: The program has been operating since businesses 2.0. aimed at expanding the company’s business limitation. 2009. Leumi and the Arab Israel Bank give loans at operations vis-á-vis its customers. · Operation Protective Edge Koret Fund: The fund preferential terms to small businesses in periphery. granted loans to help companies in southern Israel Completed Partially Completed Not Completed Corporate Responsibility Report 62 CREATING VALUE FOR CUSTOMERS 63 PROMOTION OF DISADVANTAGED POPULATIONS The Leumi Group is working to produce accessible, clear and simple products and services to all its customers and supports the promotion of positive social change by means of the products and services it offers. Initiatives to promote populations through products and services 4,000 The Group is working on this matter met with about 4,000 customers in Leumi on several main levels: debt in an effort to assist them in finding the best solution to settle Main initiatives to promote populations through products and services · Promotion of social businesses: their debts. In addition, Leumi “Back into the workforce” – assistance to unemployed customers in debt. In 2014, businesses promoting a operates an “early collection center” Leumi’s Mortgage Function initiated an innovative program, in which customers with solution to social problems aiming to minimize credit losses within the framework of their and to avoid the need for legal customers in debt mortgage debts living in the South of Israel were integrated in a training program that would prepare the groundwork for their entry into the workforce. Service and business activity, for example, the employment of people with proceedings and sanctions against customers. When a deviation from met with Leumi debt collection representatives of the Mortgage Function, on their own initiative, contacted hundreds of customers to determine their employment status and offered disabilities or youth at risk. the customer’s credit framework is detected, the center’s employees representatives in them assistance that would provide them with regular employment. During the · Development of products and services that have social value: contact the customers, drawing an effort to find program more than a hundred customers expressed an interest to integrate into the work force. Customers were referred for further assistance to the Beer-Sheva the Group offers its customers a their attention to the deviation and if necessary, offer the customers the best solution Life Cycle and Employment Center. The program was carried out in cooperation with social organizations, including the JDC Israel, The Rainmakers, and the Life Cycle and broad range of services intended to create shared value – social banking assistance. Leumi also takes part in the activities of government to settle their Employment Center founded by the Beer-Sheva municipality, the Ministry of Social Welfare, Yachdav and JDC Israel. value for customers and for the community, coupled with creating authorities, aimed at assisting debts. Social credit loans to social institutions and to employers of people with disabilities: As people in debt to come to an business value. part of the new cooperation with the Koret Fund, Leumi offers loans to entities engaged arrangement with the bank. in social activities or employing people with disabilities. The program is intended for · Assistance to customers who customers who without the backing of the Koret Fund could not have received a loan are struggling and to unique “Mortgage Time Out” from the bank. In addition, these customers enjoy relatively attractive rates and unique populations such as customers service in preparing a business plan. In many cases, social entrepreneurs are not familiar in debt, women and the UltraA service designed to make it easier with economic and financial issues so this service contributes to the development of orthodox. for purchasers of apartments their business and its survival. who have taken a new mortgage. · Accessibility to periphery: Benefits to customers living in the South: During and after Operation Protective Edge Customers meeting the conditions the Leumi Group deployed its Leumi customers on the frontline received services, products and benefits to facilitate can take a “mortgage time out” branches across the country to their coping with the situation. Inter alia, a “hot line” was established for customers; the and enjoy three months deferral of provide the full range of services branch’s official authorizations were extended to approve exceptions, unique credit payments per year, out of a “basket and products to all its customers, products were offered, fines for breaking deposits and limitations on cheques without of months” allocated to them. wherever they are. cover were cancelled, an emergency mobile branch was established, and so forth. In addition, the Group provides credit for the development of social Giving a future – Loans for small and communal infrastructures such entrepreneurs as hospitals, green areas, local A joint venture with “Latet” identified the change that is taking this need, the Arab Israel Bank, at change requires an appropriate economies, and more. organization which locates and place regarding the employment of the beginning of 2014, launched a banking response and the support accompanies entrepreneurs women from the sector, the unique new and innovative service, granting of professionals in the field. The experiencing economic difficulties, challenges facing Arab youth, and customers housing loans without Arab Israel Bank offers a unique Initiatives to promote business owners, or business ideas, the bureaucratic barrier facing the need to mortgage the property. service package that is the first populations through while Leumi supplies the financing mortgage seekers in Arab society, In this framework, housing loans of its kind for women, and which products and services and grants loans of up to NIS and succeeded in offering unique, of up to NIS 400,000 are offered closely accompanies them at every 40,000. innovative services with added for either building or renovating stage of life: as singles, as students, Leumi social and business value for its a home, to be repaid in up to 12 as mothers, as salaried employees Program to minimize customers’ customers. years. This product was again and as freelancers. The package debts: Leumi holds direct, sensitive, Arab Israel Bank Housing loans without the need upgraded at the beginning of 2015 includes loans and benefits suited speedy and businesslike dialogues in order to suit the customers’ to the lifestyle of women in the The Bank’s in-depth familiarity with to mortgage the asset: Many with customers in financial difficulty, needs. Arab society, such as loans for its customers and their distinctive bureaucratic difficulties and by individually examining their ability driving lessons, studies, opening a characteristics allows it to initiate discrepancies in the registration Special tracks for women: In recent to settle the debt and to find the business, health care, and savings innovative value packages that are of property in the Israel Land years, increasing numbers of Arab most convenient solution. In 2014, for children. suited to the needs of its customers Registry block the purchase of an women are working outside the about 180 customer days were held, and to the social needs of Arab apartment and improving housing home, and are even setting up their during which Leumi representatives society. Thus, for example, the Bank in the Arab society. In response to own small businesses. This social Corporate Responsibility Report 64 CREATING VALUE FOR CUSTOMERS 65 Bank Leumi US (BLUSA) 2.5 NIS MILLION Since the beginning of cooperation with the “Round Up” organization, Leumi Card Reinvestment in the community Bank Leumi US is working to promote low-income populations, inter alia, under the Community Reinvestment Act (CRA) with the aim of encouraging commercial banks to meet the needs of borrowers from all sectors of the community in which they operate. In 2013, the US authorities reviewed the activities of BLUSA with regard to the performance of CRA in 2010-2012. BLUSA was awarded an outstanding” score from the two organizations that conducted this review. The high score stems from, inter alia, the fact that CRA loans account for about 10% of the BLUSA's total assets during the three years under review. In 2014, in the framework of CRA, a total of $ 310 million were granted in loans. Each area of BLUSA’s activity focuses on issues relevant to the needs of the population customers have donated a in the same region: total of about NIS 2.5 million to organizations of their California: Illinois: New York: Florida: choice. Loans to businesses Loans to nursing homes, Loans to real estate and Loans to businesses operating in the southern rehabilitation centers and other industries operating in in economically part of Los Angeles centers engaged in medical underprivileged areas. disadvantaged areas, Special youth track– Issamiyun that support the local care to those eligible for loans This allows affordable supporting and enabling (“Aspiring to succeed”): Arab community by providing as part of government health housing for the lowthe stability and youngsters in Israel embark on their employment. insurance for the benefit of the income population (Low development of the local professional lives, as students or low-income population. Loans and moderate-income; community. employees, at an early age (18). To are also given to the elderly LMI) in these areas. make it easier for them to cope with for the benefit of affordable the challenges they face, a special housing. track was established at the Arab Israel Bank, allowing them to receive account benefits until the age of 21 – a period of time that corresponds to that of military service in the IDF. Customers in this track receive information about proper account “Round Up and Donate” management and the financial options available to them. They are Donations over the years in (NIS) offered unique value packages, such as loans for driving lessons 865,685 and for preparatory courses for the 800,594 psychometric exam. Leumi Card Leumi Card continues to offer its 392,000 “Round Up and Donate” service, in cooperation with the “Round 266,000 Up” organization, for the fifth consecutive year. The service allows 122,595 the company’s customers to round 37,042 up the sum of transactions carried out at businesses to the nearest 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 NIS, with the difference transferred as a contribution to a range of In 2014, some 21,000 Leumi Card customers rounded up sums. Since the non-profit organizations as per the beginning of cooperation with the “Round Up” organization, Leumi Card customer’s choice. In 2014, 3,521 customers have donated a total of about NIS 2.5 million to organizations of new customers joined this service. their choice. Corporate Responsibility Report 66 CREATING VALUE FOR CUSTOMERS 67 Breakdown of loans promoting social issues* (NIS 291 million in 2014) Fund for small Businesses Koret Fund MEETING PRESENT AND FUTURE OBJECTIVES Financing medical equipment for hospitals Housing loans without the need to mortgage the asset Company Objective for end of 2014 Status Explanation Continued activity in Keren Koret (Koret fund) and the establishment of 25.9% Continued cooperation with the Koret Fund. Keren Koret -social credit fund and 46.4% Keren Koret Operation Protective Edge. 1.9% About 180 meetings were held Meetings with 4,000 customers with problematic with 4,000 debtors to arrange debt Leumi debt. settlements. 25.7% Cooperation with Keren Dror (Dror fund) that promotes social Promotion of partnerships and supporting businesses. The agreement was proposals to promote small businesses and signed in 2014, operations will begin social initiatives. in 2015. In 2014, cooperation with the Koret Continued cooperation with the Koret fund in fund continued. As of the end of granting loans to businesses in the Arab sector the year, loans were granted in the in Israel. Arab Israel amount of volume of NIS 25 million. Bank Due to the low response, conclusions Housing loans without the need to mortgage the were drawn in 2014 and according property. to the results, the product was upgraded and re-launched in 2015. Objective for execution by end of 2015 Main activities planned Deployment in the periphery and among low-income populations Continued cooperation with the Koret fund and Granting social loans in accordance with terms 268 Leumi the Dror fund. of the funds. Among the Group’s branches in Israel, 135 branches are located outside the Tel Aviv metropolitan area and the large cities. Completed Partially Completed Not Completed 43 of the Group’s branches are located in the heart of peripheral towns. 46 of the branches are located in Arab population concentrations. 25 branches are located in population concentrations of ultraOrthodox or provide service to a mainly ultra-Orthodox population. *The data presented was compiled specifically for this report and at this stage without automated retrieval. Corporate Responsibility Report 68 CREATING VALUE FOR CUSTOMERS 69 DEVELOPMENT OF ENVIRONMENTAL PRODUCTS Leumi Group attaches great business value to the advancement of sustainability, while examining the challenges facing its customers in this area and the development of products that provide them with solutions. These challenges will have an affect, inter alia, the agriculture, construction, transport, energy and water sectors, requiring a change in mindset, in light of environmental challenges. Together with this, the Israeli entrepreneurs who want to rent a total over 40,000 have customers economy has in recent years gone roof or land and build a facility on it. have joined the service to date). through significant changes in Some 20,000 customers of the Arab Loans to finance the purchase of the area of renewable energy Israel Bank joined the “green mail” hybrid vehicles: Leumi offers private and the shift to natural gas, while service in 2014. customers special financing for the reducing consumption of polluting purchase of hybrid vehicles. energy and reducing greenhouse gases. The Group is preparing for Financing environmental these changes and is developing infrastructure projects: In 2014, new products and services, while Leumi participated in the financing recognizing the potential risks of of several large projects with a some of its areas of activity, and is positive effect on the environment therefore applying the precautionary such as installations for generating principle that requires particular electricity from sunlight. attention in order to avoid causing Green Mail Service: a service that harm. allows customers to receive mail This matter is being handled by the Group’s Corporate-Commercial from the bank by digital means instead of paper, considerably Green Mail Service: Division, Leumi’s International Credit and Real Estate Division, saving paper. In 2014, some 25,000 A service that allows customers to receive customers joined the service (in and the Banking Division that have mail from the bank by digital means instead developed several solutions and of paper, considerably saving paper. In business services that assist the Group’s customers to minimize their Breakdown of loans promoting enviromental issues* 2014, some 25,000 customers joined the impact on the environment: (NIS 428 million in 2014) service (in total over 40,000 customers · Financing of environmental have joined the service to date). infrastructure projects such as solar energy installations and water desalination and projects for converting plants for natural 2.0% gas. · Green loans to private customers 5.6% such as small solar installations, and to finance the purchase of MEETING OBJECTIVES hybrid vehicles. 55.1% 37.2% Initiatives for the Promotion and Development of Products Company Objective for the end of 2014 Status Explanation with Environmental Value Pumped storage technology After reviewing this subject and the decision Loans for the establishment of Continued promotion and to deepen cooperation with social funds, no private solar installations: Leumi Natural gas infrastructures Leumi development of Leumi’s green new products were developed in this area provides its customers financing products Hybrid vehicles during 2014. tracks for small and mediumsized solar installations intended Renewable energy for customers who own a roof, a structure or land on which the *The data presented was compiled specifically for this report, and at this stage Completed Partially Completed Not Completed facility can be built, as well as to without automated retrieval. 70 CREATING VALUE FOR EMPLOYEES 3 Corporate Responsibility Report 72 CREATING VALUE FOR EMPLOYEES 73 EMPLOYEES OF LEUMI GROUP The Leumi Group employs more than 12,000 employees in Israel and abroad, and regards its employees as a central factor in its success. The Group attaches great importance to the welfare, satisfaction, and professional and personal development of its employees. Within this framework, the Group promotes and maintains transparency, fairness, equal opportunity and diversity in employment while avoiding harmful employment; it cultivates excellence and innovation; cooperation and a dialogue with the employees, and is concerned about their health and welfare. The Group promotes and maintains transparency, fairness, equal opportunity The following is a breakdown of employees of the Group as of 31 December 2014 regarding previous years. The breakdown presents the employees and diversity in employment while in each of the companies of the Group in a manner which enables a comparison between the years. This year, the scope of employees in the avoiding harmful employment; it cultivates Bank’s overseas offices is excellence and innovation; cooperation and a dialogue with the employees, and is Total Employees* in the Group by Year 2011-2014 concerned about their health and welfare. 2014 2013 2012 2011 Leumi 9,402 9,610 9,760 9,890 Arab Israel Bank 448 448 452 453 Leumi Card 1,469 1,481 1,498 1,525 Leumi Partners 37 35 37 36 The Trust Company 21 20 22 25 Overseas Offices** 866 923 928 996 Total*** 12,243 11,594 11,769 11,929 * Unlike the financial statements published by Leumi, the data in these tables and in the entire report (unless otherwise specified) relate to employees of the Group and not to positions (after deducting unpaid vacation and maternity leave, including specific overtime hours, not including external employees). ** Between 2011 and 2013 the overseas offices data refers to positions and not to employees, and they include the subsidiaries in Bank Leumi U.S., Bank Leumi United Kingdom and Bank Leumi Romania. *** Total employee figures for the years 2011-2013 do not include overseas offices (see note on the subject). Corporate Responsibility Report 74 CREATING VALUE FOR EMPLOYEES 75 Geographic Distribution of the Group’s Percentage of Executives/Clerks Employees in Israel in 2014 in Leumi Group in 2014 Breakdown of the Group’s Employees South by Gender and Age 3% North Percentage Women Men 14% of Women HaSharon 30.1% 30 and under 0 0 --Center 5% The Number Ages 31-50 42 49 46% of Employees 52% 69.9% in Senior Age 51+ 29 52 36% Shfela Management 21% Total 71 101 41% 30 and under 0 3 0% Jerusalem The Number Ages 31-50 261 238 52% 5% of Employees in Middle Age 51+ 136 247 36% Management Total 397 488 45% Executives Clerks 30 and under 35 20 64% The Number Ages 31-50 1,124 794 59% of Employees Breakdown of the Group’s Employees in Junior Age 51+ 292 361 45% by type of Contract in 2014 Management Total 1,451 1,175 55% 1.04% 2.79% 19.87% 12.33% 10.60% 30 and under 1493 686 69% 9 41 89 1,159 1,298 The Number Workers Workers Workers Workers Workers of Clerks and Ages 31-50 2,263 1,400 62% Employees Who are not in Age 51+ 1,890 828 70% Management Total 5,646 2,914 66% Positions 98.96% 100% 100% 97.21% 80.13% 87.67% 89.40% 857 21 37 1,428 359 8,243 10,945 Total in the Organization 7,565 4,678 62% Workers Workers Workers Workers Workers Workers Workers 62% 64% Overseas Trust Leumi Leumi Arab Israel Leumi Leumi 60% 61% Offices company Partners Card Bank Group 2011 2012 2013 2014 Temporary employees Permanent employees with tenure, experience and personal contracts Percentage of Academics in the Group’s Companies in Israel Over Time Corporate Responsibility Report 76 CREATING VALUE FOR EMPLOYEES 77 Initiatives for Integrating borderline score at the screening and the rest of the candidates Employees from Diverse center get a second chance and being examined for positions The guiding principle: Populations are summoned for an interview in Leumi. The examination was at the Recruitment Section, in intended to permit the creation of diversity in manpower Leumi order to examine in-depth their adjustments and alleviation in the that corresponds · Prioritizing the resumes of potential suitability to the position screening processes that would and to Leumi and in order to to the diversity in candidates from targeted avoid situations in which a lead to an increase in recruitment of employees from the Ethiopian Israeli society, with populations. suitable candidate is overlooked. population. The results of the study an awareness of · Assistance in screening tests: Significant additional time (30%) · Promoting candidates from shall serve Leumi and may serve as an anchor for other organizations the needs of the in cognitive tests; adjustment targeted populations vis-�-vis the recruiting business units: The as well, in order to pave the way society and the of languages on the day of Recruitment Section contacts the for more reliable and valid tests for the evaluation; the existence candidates of Ethiopian extraction. customers, with the of a non-screening evaluation recruiting executives in order to promote the candidacy of people The screening processes for aim of reflecting Leumi day (candidates from targeted from these populations. the targeted population will be populations undergo all the Group’s responsibility stages on the evaluation day, · Proactively approaching examined in 2015 at the screening towards the community without eliminations in the early organizations, associations and centers. stages, unlike other candidates); placement agencies in order to in which it operates. integration of Arab evaluators receive resumes of candidates · Systematically dealing with discrimination: Leumi views on screening days on which from targeted populations, incidents of discrimination with candidates from the Arab sector continuous contact and periodic great severity, and deals with are participating, and more. meetings with associations that DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY IN EMPLOYMENT them immediately. In 2014 there represent these populations. · Alleviation in the minimum were no reports of discrimination requirements: Performing · Spotlight days for candidates within the Group. Leumi Group believes in equal opportunity and honors the principle of diversity in manpower that corresponds to adjustments in the job from the ultra-Orthodox the diversity in Israeli society, with an awareness of the needs of the society and the customers and in order to requirements; recruitment of population (women and men reflect its responsibility towards the community in which it operates. candidates from the ultraseparately). The Recruitment Bank Leumi in the United States of Orthodox population who do not Section participates in America (BLUSA) have matriculation certificates conferences and seminars in Internship Program at the Bank: A Leumi Group strives to create matters pertaining to employment. employment diversity and for or an academic degree, order to promote recruitment of three month employment internship employment opportunities for The Group does not employ minors. measuring the issue annually and while providing the option of candidates from this sector. employees of all ethnicities and in an organized fashion. The team program for disadvantaged The Diversity and Equal Opportunity completing a Bachelor’s Degree populations has been in operation faiths and for employees with of recruiters in the Sub-Division At the beginning of 2015, Leumi Policy in Leumi Group places on the job during the first four disabilities, with a view that such includes a diversity supervisor, approached the Adam Milo Institute at the Bank for 13 years and emphasis on activity in three main years of employment. diversity contributes to equal whose duty is to recruit employees with a request that it examine implemented thirty internships, of areas: from underemployed populations the performance gaps between which led 17 of them to continue at opportunities in Israeli society · Summon to frontal interviews: and broadens horizons for all the · Recruitment of employees from vis-à-vis the placement agencies and Candidates who received a candidates of Ethiopian extraction the Bank as employees. employees, while at the same time diverse populations: with an screening centers and vis-à-vis the reflects a dynamic, challenging, emphasis on underemployed units in the Banks. creative and progressive populations – Arab population, Over the years, Leumi has organization. Ethiopians and Ultra-Orthodox accumulated a great deal of Jews, by adjusting the criteria Leumi Group opposes discrimination of any kind and prohibits for hiring and granting special knowledge and experience regarding the possible barriers 11% of all those recruited discriminatory behavior within assistance. faced by these populations, and has developed relevant solutions by the Group in 2014 were the organization for whatever · Recruitment and promotion reason. Decisions of the Group concerning employees and candidates for employment, their recruitment and promotion are made on the basis of objective considerations of performance and skills, without discrimination on the basis of religion, race, color, of employees with disabilities: Integration of employees with disabilities is an inseparable part of responsible recruitment in Leumi Group. · Equal gender opportunity: In all its activity, at all levels and in all fields. and adjustments in order to assist in getting to know the candidate beyond the cultural barriers and the routine threshold criteria. The guiding principle: diversity in manpower that corresponds to the diversity in Israeli society, with an awareness of the needs 11 % Arabs, ultra-Orthodox, Ethiopians or people with disabilities. 91% of those employed in the Arab-Israel Bank are part of gender, sexual orientation, personal The Administration and Operations of the society and the customers status, ethnicity, nationality, age Sub-Divisions in the Human with the aim of reflecting Leumi the Arab population. or disability. Leumi Group acts Resources Division in Leumi Group’s responsibility towards the in accordance with the law in all is responsible for the area of community in which it operates. Corporate Responsibility Report 78 CREATING VALUE FOR EMPLOYEES 79 Breakdown of Leumi Group Employees by Gender in 2014 The median average monthly wage (not including the highest wages) in the organization for Women Men women increased by 2% in 2014 while the median average annual wage for men increased by 1%. 62% The Percentage of Women in Leumi Group Gender Equality of A comparison of the wage gaps The Adva Center conducted a Opportunity between the minimal monthly wages comprehensive study in 2012 that paid in Leumi and the maximum dealt with the wage gaps between Leumi Group seeks to maintain a monthly wages paid in Leumi women and men in Israel.17 The high percentage of women at all revealed that in 2014 the wage results of the study revealed that levels of the Bank and to integrate gaps between seniors and juniors the average wage of a woman in them into key positions, as can be The Percentage of Women in Leumi The Percentage of Women in the Group’s shrunk by about 0.5%16. In addition Israel in 2012 stood at 66% of seen in the data presented on the to this figure, the median average the wages of a man. According to Group by Rank in 2014 Subsidiaries in 2014 following page: monthly wage (not including the the study, in the last decade – and highest wages) in the organization in comparison to 2002 – the gap 66% Fair Pay for women increased by 2% in 2014 shrunk by about 5%. The issue of 62% 71% 62% 61% 63% Wages in Leumi are set in while the median average annual wage gaps was examined in the 55% 59% accordance with the relevant wage for men increased by 1%. Bank and the wage gaps between 45% 52% 52% considerations such as professional men and women can be seen in the 41% As of the end of 2014, the gap experience, evaluation, seniority graph on page 80, broken down by between the median average wages in the organization in 2014, the pay grade, it can be seen that that for men (not including the highest 25% minimal monthly average wage paid the wage gap between men and wages) and the median average to a woman in the organization for women in the bank is lower than wages for women (not including the a full time position was about 22% the average in Israel. We emphasize highest wages) stands at 17% in the higher than the minimum wage that the examination was performed men’s favor. in the economy and the minimal in relation to the average monthly monthly average wage paid to a At the high pay grade in the wage at every grade. Le T m Tru u of mi’ oy ota Pa Le rtn um i Di s B um organizations, among the 10% who re oa er i man in the organization for a full ct rd or ee l s pa st m an In ag se s s Le um em nio Ov iC Le ny en r e received the highest wages in the m I t Of rse ar d time position was about 25% higher an n ag im em dd m an In ag ju en le t plfic as es Ar ab Is organization, 64% are women. em nio en r Co Ba rae than the minimum wage in the Am on g cle th t Em nk l A em mo rk e s economy. pl ng oy a ee ll s On 16. An expansion regarding the wage gaps between the CEO’s wages and the annual average for employee offices can be found in the financial report on pages 240, 259. 17. www.adva.org/uploaded/EqualPay_mail.pdf Corporate Responsibility Report 80 CREATING VALUE FOR EMPLOYEES 81 The Percentage of Women in Leumi Group 2011-2014 Maintenaning Proper Work created over the years, including ad were employed under collective Relations hoc agreements between the Bank agreements. The rest of the Group’s Management and representatives of employees, including employees 62% 62% 62% 62% Leumi Group believes that a fair, the employees. of Leumi Card, Leumi Partners and 53% 54% 55% 55% transparent and cooperative the overseas offices, where there relationship with the employees’ In 2014, relations between the management and employee were no collective employment 43% 42% 44% 45% 46% representatives contributes to the agreements in 2014 – are employed 41% advancement of business of the representatives continued to be 35% conducted in a proper manner, under personal contracts. Bank and of the Group as well as 30% contributing to employee satisfaction. and based on mutual respect and 29% 27% 25% Arab Israel Bank Since its founding, an employee attentiveness. In 2014 there were 20% representative body has operated in no strikes or lockouts initiated by The new collective agreement Leumi that represents the employees the employee representative bodies applies, word for word, to the Arab vis-à-vis the Bank’s management. at Leumi and at the Arab Israel Bank. Israel bank and its employees. Every employee can approach the During the negotiations on the first employee representative body in the collective agreement in Leumi Card, Leumi Card Bank at any time and on any matter a work dispute was declared by During 2013 a Workers’ Union Among all In junior In middle In senior On Leumi’s employees management management management Board of Directors and raise it for discussion. the Histadrut at the end of 2014. was established at Leumi Card. The The negotiation continued until the company recognized the Histadrut At Leumi and at Arab Israel Bank, signing of the agreement on 29 2014 2013 2012 2011 work relations between the Bank as the organization representing its April 2015, and the dispute was Management and the employees (via employees. Negotiations on the first then cancelled. the employee representative body) collective agreement commenced are based on a system of collective In 2014, 85% of Leumi Group’s at the end of 2013. The agreement agreements and other accords employees and managers in Israel was signed on 29 April 2015. The Ration Between the Average Wages for Women and Average Wages for Men by Pay Grade New collective Agreement at Leumi in 2014 At the beginning of 2015, Leumi Management and the National Employee Organization of Leumi signed a new four-year collective agreement 88% 92% (2015-2018). The outline of the agreement was achieved based on the 89% 86% guidelines of the previous collective agreement of Leumi employees, with 66% several key changes that place an emphasis on maintaining long-standing employees’ rights and improving the terms of employment of the younger employees and those at a relatively lower pay grade. It was agreed, inter alia, that: The average increase in the average annual wage to all employees will ag Ju ag Mi ag Se ks stand at 4% in 2015 and 2016, and at 3.5% in 2017 and 2018. em nio em dd em nio er en r en le Cl en r Employer contributions to pensions of young employees with a cumulative t t t m an m an an pension will increase by 50% from 5% to 7.5%. m The wages of employees currently earning minimum wage will increase Women’s wages out of men’s wages by about 15% and in a single instance to NIS 5,000 a month. In this Average in Israel way, Leumi is two years ahead of updating the minimum wage for its employees. Leumi will increase the rate in which external employees are brought in as regular employees. The employment outline and its scope will be determined at a later stage. For the first time, a principle decision was made regarding compensation for the accumulation of sick days. The compensation will be granted upon retirement. A new mechanism for remunerating employees for nonutilization of sick days by granting vacation days was also established. Corporate Responsibility Report 82 CREATING VALUE FOR EMPLOYEES 83 Within the framework of the collective agreement that was signed in Leumi at the beginning of 2015, an increase in the wages Leumi and its subsidiaries hired of employees of manpower 285 employees of external companies that the Bank companies, which constitute employs at the equivalent of 23% of the new employees that NIS 5,000 a month already the Group hired. during 2015 Prevention of sexual harassment standards were distributed once of the external employees provided increase in the wages of employees of manpower companies that Bank Employee Absences again to all branches and units of the Bank with services in part-time Leumi treats sexual harassment in the Bank, and they are displayed positions). These figures do not employs at the equivalent of NIS In 2014, employees of the Group took 260,386 vacation days. the workplace very seriously and on the noticeboard of every unit. include service company employees 5,000 a month already during attaches great importance to its 2015, even before the entry into Complaints in this regard are in the fields of security and cleaning. Days of Absence of Employees Total in the Group prevention. In order to prevent such force of the Guidelines updating the treated professionally, efficiently In 2014, Arab Israel Bank received transgressions and create a fair, minimum wage sum established by * Due to employee illness (not including an absence 91,251 and quickly. In 2014, a few solitary services from external employees in respectable and pleasant working the Government’s decision, this due due to work accidents) complaints were lodged concerning the scope of 51 positions and Leumi environment, one which promotes to concern for employees earning a sexual harassment: An inquiry was Card 57 positions. The rest of the equality and mutual respect, Leumi low wage. Due to the illness of a family member (*) 16,261 conducted in each instance by the companies in Israel and the world appointed a senior lawyer to be appointed lawyer in accordance received services from a total of Due to a vacation 260,386 responsible for the prevention of with the Sexual Harassment three external employees. Sexual Harassment, and to receive Due to a school vacation (**) 2,036 Prevention Law. complaints relating to sexual Hiring of Contract (External) External Employees harassment. It was also established * Sick days in the Arab Israel Bank include sick days of a family member. that sexual harassment is a serious External Employees Employees: In 2014, Leumi in Leumi ** School vacation in Leumi Card is included in the regular vacation. and its subsidiaries hired 285 disciplinary transgression and a Leumi receives services from employees of external companies, 1,459 set of standards in this regard manpower companies covering a which constitute 23% of the new 1,146 is conveyed personally to each range of positions, including tellers employees that the Group hired. 947 921 of its employees and is given to at the branches, telephone call every new employee at the Bank center personnel, computer and Improvement in the Terms of Wages upon intake. The standards and programming personnel and more. of Contract Employees: Within the contact details of the senior In 2014, the scope of services the framework of the collective lawyer appear on the Leumi Leumi received from such external agreement that was signed in organizational portal. In 2014, the employees was 921 positions (Some Leumi at the beginning of 2015, an 2011 2012 2013 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report 84 CREATING VALUE FOR EMPLOYEES 85 Employee Turnover in Leumi Group By Age Groups in 2014 Employee Turnover in Leumi Group for 2014 916 680 751 687 566 407 455 368 337 213 194 125 0 0 33 Employees up to age 30 Employees ages 31-50 Employees ages 51+ Retired Left Employed Retired Left Employed Women Men Employee Turnover The program includes taking reduction, the rental agreement on measures in the area of human assets that became redundant were In the figures concerning employee resources as well as in other areas sold or terminated. turnover in the Group, we can see accruing material expense. The that the scope of young and middleWithin the framework of the streamlining program is based aged employees joining the ranks strategic objective of improving on organizational and structural of the Bank exceeds the scope of efficiency and flexibility, Leumi changes (such as establishing those leaving, which indicates that Group plans to reduce the scope specialization centers and reducing the companies of the Group are manpower in the branches) as of the positions in the Group desirable and attractive workplaces. well as on the extent of natural over the next three years (2015It should be noted that a large retirement and an early retirement 2017) by an additional thousand number of those who leave afer the plan. positions. This reduction is based on age of 50 (407 employees) are streamlining throughout the Group long-standing employees who are As part of the streamlining program, – primarily in Leumi, on the basis Balancing home and work retiring after many years of service about a thousand positions were of the scope of natural retirement, in the Bank. reduced in Leumi Group in the including in the subsidiaries in Leumi Group recognizes the importance of balancing home and work and allows its employees years 2012-2014. As part of this Israel and abroad, on the basis a reasonable balance between work and their private life. The employment terms at Leumi Streamlining program program, 670 employees signed of continued streamlining in the allow for a successful combination between building a professional career and a family life With a view to supporting the on voluntary early retirement. This Group’s activity in Israel and closing (raising children, caring for elderly parents etc.). The overall terms of employment, together Bank’s business objectives, Leumi was carried out in full cooperation or selling part of its activities with the organizational culture in Leumi, provide a supportive environment for every employee announced a three-year streamlining with the employees’ representative abroad. (man or woman) to balance between their family and their work. program in 2012, aimed at bringing body and through respectful, The Group implements several practices that are intended to support this balance: about substantial savings in the open dialogue with the retiring Natural retirement Group’s operational costs, as well as employees. · A five day and 39 hour work week – less than is customary in the economy. In 2014, 119 employees retired improving its efficiency ratio on an The reduction in the number of as part of natural retirement. In · According to a permanent guideline, overtime hours will only be worked if necessary and on ongoing and long-term basis, while positions allowed for a reduction the coming decade, about 2,150 the instruction of a manager. instilling a culture of operational in the Bank’s facilities and the employees are expected to retire savings and efficiency. expenses thereof. As a result of the naturally, 80 of them already in 2015. · The quota of vacation days for employees is higher than what is stipulated by law. · The rule for accumulating and utilizing sick days benefit the employees beyond what is stipulated by law, both for employee illness and for the illness of family members (children and elderly parents). · Nursing mothers in Leumi are entitled to an hour of nursing which exceeds the time stipulated by law, out of the desire to assist an employee returning to work after maternity FUTURE OBJECTIVES leave. · Leumi participates in the reimbursement of employee expenses for pre-school activities and Objective for execution by end of 2015 Main activities planned summer camps. Adjustments and alleviation in screening tests Encouraging the hiring of diverse populations in · Leumi reimburses eligible employees for the college tuition of their children. Leumi for diverse populations, while focusing on Leumi populations with disabilities in particular. · Leumi offers outings to its employees and their families. Corporate Responsibility Report 86 CREATING VALUE FOR EMPLOYEES 87 Leumi Group’s objective is to nurture and retain its human EMPLOYEE DEVELOPMENT AND EXCELLENCE resource, to inspire a sense of The challenges and the changing reality obligate Leumi to continually strive to improve. The Group strives to create pride in the workplace among its value for its customers and for the stakeholders by way of excellence in service and products. This concept is based on the quality of the people, on a high level of professionalism and on an organizational culture that focuses on employees and to attract quality constant improvement. individuals. The human factor is at the top of the Group’s quality components and is the basis for its operations and success. Leumi skills for Headquarters duties. The Group’s objective is to nurture and retain its human resource, to inspire a sense of pride in the workplace among emphasis in the track is given to its employees and to attract quality individuals. Leumi Management has set itself the goal to support the business expanding knowledge, familiarity units in achieving their business objectives through learning and training processes, which focus upon improving with Headquarters duties and with the professional and managerial capabilities of the employees and managers. Leumi employees receive professional the business and its challenges, and and managerial training when transferring to new positions, and in light of the relevant changes; in professional and networking to promote the business. managerial “fitness centers”; in training sessions according to rank for executives; in the branch managers club; in external seminars; in enrichment workshops for the development of personal and interpersonal skills; in e-learning of A Club for Branch Managers: Annual professional subjects, and more. and every-other-day activity, which is intended for branch managers The Training Sub-Division in the Human Resources Division is responsible for annually and methodically managing and in the business divisions. The goals measuring this area in the Group. In addition, the Sub-Division operates the training center in which all the training of the club are to create a platform and learning programs for Leumi Managers and employees are planned and built. The training center advocates for dialogue and networking, learning processes that are interwoven and integrated into the work routine so as to promote the business objectives self-empowerment and a dialogue of the Group and to benefit the personal and professional development of employees. The training center is also at the with Leumi Management. This year disposal of the subsidiaries in the Group: every subsidiary participates in the activities of the center according to its was dedicated to activity in the unique needs. development of skills for effective The Sub-Division, in cooperation with additional units in the Group, is leading several key processes: communication. Leumi Card The company holds training · Training Courses and Programs: · Managerial Reserve Program: Initiatives for developing The training programs in the core As part of the promotion of courses for new representatives excellence and training and individual training programs banking fields and in accordance excellence in Leumi, programs to business objectives such as were written for the development employees for new employees in professional credit, investment consulting, of managers with high potential, in Leumi positions. Leumi Card additionally service and sales and managerial preparation for more complicated maintains a yearly program of duties further in their careers. Sales Simulator: An innovative and ongoing professional training, in training, including comprehensive These programs are managed in unique training and learning space keeping with the changing needs training and assimilation of the the Headquarters, Work Relations for developing interpersonal skills: of the organization’s units and issue of regulation and compliance and Staff Administration SubService and sales skills, interpersonal the company’s business needs. among the employees. Division. communication skills, management In addition to all these, Leumi · Measurement and Assessment skills and negotiation skills. Card offers its employees a of Effectiveness: With the aim of · The Hundred Forum: Includes range of courses and workshops approximately a hundred heads of Leadership Program: A two-year improving the proposed training for professional and personal sub-divisions (senior managers). program for the development of programs for employees and to enrichment on subjects relating The Forum was established with senior middle management, led ensure that they provide solutions to finance, computer applications, the aim of nurturing the managers, by members of management and to needs in the field. interpersonal skills, and more, within increasing their involvement and members of the Hundred Forum. the framework of “Leumiyeda” · Learning via Online Channels: influence in the activities of the The program deals with three axes – the organizational campus. In Within this framework, Leumi Bank, and building an expanded of development: Self-management, addition, Leumi Card maintains enables its employees to efficiently management, together with the management of relationships and a program for the training and learn professional contents, members of Leumi Management. management of complex systems. development of managers at all at a good pace and within a (Managed in the Headquarters, The program is unique and was levels for the development of framework convenient to them via Work Relations and Staff established in order to give senior managerial capabilities and skills, a computerized system. Administration Sub-Division.) executives the tools to successfully personal development and growth. handle Leumi challenges. · Personal Mentoring: Personal · Promoting Academic Studies: As The program includes different mentoring processes with the part of the policy for nurturing Headquarters Track: A new track activities such as management aim of advancing employees and excellence, the Group funds higher that addresses Headquarters courses, sessions with colleagues, managers with professional and education for its employees who members in specific units, in order managerial forums, consulting managerial development potential. meet the criteria. to assimilate a concept and effective processes and personal mentoring. Corporate Responsibility Report 88 CREATING VALUE FOR EMPLOYEES 89 Hours of Training by Gender in Leumi Group in 2014 Average Hours of Training MEETING PRESENT AND FUTURE OBJECTIVES Per Employee in the Group 140,641 in 2014* Company Objective for end of 2014 Status Explanation 103,157 32 Leading service quality processes at the centers The main points of the training 30 29 outside of the Customer Service and Operations program regarding service quality 28 Division. were carried out. 34,338 27,123 Leumi Card 8,243 6,244 Implementation of 9 annual sub-divisional 520 154 518 240 Most of the activities planned for training programs intended for employees and 2014 were carried out. Overseas Offices Trust Leumi Leumi Leumi 2011 2012 2013 2014 managers of the company’s sub-divisions. without BLUSA Company Partners Card Training programs were carried out Leumi Continued development of a training and Women Men for most of the employees, each in Partners enrichment program for employees. their area of activity. Average Hours of Training Per employee in 2014* Trust Workshops for development of managers and All employees underwent training in Company employees. 2014. 42.06 41.80 41.84 39.65 Objective for execution by end of 2015 Main activities planned 32.07 30.81 28.49 28.29 26.36 27.55 25.18 24.81 25.01 24.81 25.93 20.49 22.50 Communicating and encouraging participation 19.01 16.25 17.09 Participation of 35% of the organization among company employees and managers in the employees in the company’s Leumiyeda activities. 8.80 Leumiyeda activities in 2015. Average Overseas Trust Leumi Leumi Arab Israel Leumi Total of * Leading a process for detecting the training Company Partners Card Bank Leumi Card needs vis-à-vis the sections managers. Offices Leumi Group Execution and implementation of 85% of the * Preparing a training program for the Average Hours of Training Average Hours of Training Average Hours of Training total activities defined in the departmental department, including activities, budget, for All Empoyees for a Clerk for an Executive training programs. vendors and schedules. * Defining and leading the learning processes in * The data does not include Bank Leumi USA. the program The decline in reported training hours per employee, is due to increased field learning hours and distance learning; learning at the branches with internal advisors or with branch and sector managers, which is not measured by the Increasing the number of training hours and the computer systems Leumi Developing professional training and number of participating employees compared to Partners qualification for all the company’s employees. the previous year. Cooperation with the training center and Participation of most of the company employees Trust external professional functions for building and in personal and professional development and Company imparting relevant courses to the company’s enrichment workshops. employees. Completed Partially Completed Not Completed Corporate Responsibility Report 90 CREATING VALUE FOR EMPLOYEES 91 In preparation for the “Employee Evaluation Employee Satisfaction the one hundred most worthwhile in the management of their career. Process 2014” Since 2013 Leumi has conducted companies to work for. In the first nine months of the system’s operation, more than 350 (implemented in February pulse surveys. These surveys are In 2014, the employee satisfaction applications were submitted and 2015) the format of the brief and focused, and allow for grade stood at 7.94, maintaining its about 90 positions were filled. a quick, up-to-date and ongoing stability relative to 2013, when the process was updated. snapshot as to employees’ views grade stood at 8.00. Leumi Card The update was intended concerning major aspects of the The results of the surveys are During 2014, a BDI satisfaction to make the process organizational culture, the degree communicated to the Bank survey was carried out at Leumi of satisfaction, the engagement more significant both and the assimilation of various management and are taken Card and satisfaction surveys were Feedback and Employee computerized system, which can into account while formulating conducted at the various service Evalution be viewed by the employee at any for the purpose of processes. centers. The results of the survey recommendations for the time. In addition to this annual improving performance, During 2014, three pulse surveys improvement of processes. appear at the top of the next page. Feedback and employee evaluation feedback process, there is also discussions are held annually. The an annual “midway discussion” at development and were conducted. In the area of The percentage is calculated out of engagement, a high and stable Leumi Jobs: Increasing Transparency all the service representatives who feedback discussion is structured Leumi and Arab Israel Bank, with the empowerment and as a response pattern was noted over of internal processes of responded to the last survey. and includes such aspects as aim of providing an opportunity for support tool for decision the three surveys. More than 72% mobilization and placement meeting objectives, performance open, two-way, informal dialogue. Leumi Card was ranked 21st among methods and objectives for the At Leumi Card and the Trust making. of Leumi employees reported that In June 2014, a new online system, the one hundred “best companies to they would recommend Leumi to following year. At the center of Company there is also a semiannual their friends “to a great extent” as a which allows employees (clerks work for” in the BDI and The Marker the process stands the dialogue evaluation which assesses the good place to work for. and executives up to the 10th survey. between the employee and his extent to which objectives are being more. The update was intended to rank) to view the open positions direct superior, which provides the met, and adjusts them as necessary. make the process more significant In addition, Leumi allows BDI to in the Bank and to apply to them, manager with an opportunity to both for the purpose of improving conduct an external and objective was launched. The creation of the In preparation for the “Employee survey of employee satisfaction in website constitutes a change in the provide the employee with feedback performance, development and Evaluation Process 2014” Leumi. This survey also serves to organizational culture and allows regarding his performance and the empowerment and as a support tool (implemented in February 2015) establish the Bank’s ranking among quality of his work in the past year, for decision making. employees to take an active role the format of the process was adjust mutual expectations with a updated. Among other things, a In addition to evaluation and look to the future and think together single format was established for feedback, Leumi maintains manager of possible ways to continue staff and for officials, grading scales evaluation processes at assessment learning and developing. and evaluation characteristics were institutes, as well as evaluations The evaluation process includes updated, the option of employee within the framework of managerial filling in an appraisal on the self-evaluation was added, and courses. The Percentage of Employees who Percentage of Employees who Received Leumi’s Ranking in the “100 best companies to work for” Received Feedback by Company in 2014 Feedback in 2014 by Rank and Gender 100% 100% In 2014, Leumi 3 3 3 99% 99% 98% 97% 97% 98% 97% 98% was ranked in 3rd place at 100 best companies to work for (Second year 7 7 91% 8 in a row) by The 9 9 Marker and BDI 10 Overseas Trust Leumi Leumi Arab Israel Leumi Men Women Clerks Executives Total 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Offices Company Partners Card* Bank (excluding (excluding number of Arab Israel Arab Israel employees * Calculating the percentage of those receiving feedback in the Bank) Bank) receiving Leumi Card Company is based upon the percentage of those feedback receiving feedback out of the total of those with the potential to receive feedback and not out of the total number of employees, as is calculated for the rest of the Group. Corporate Responsibility Report 92 CREATING VALUE FOR EMPLOYEES 93 MEETING PRESENT AND FUTURE OBJECTIVES Company Objective for end of 2014 Status Explanation Establishment of an internal Employee Placement system with the aim of promoting career Leumi development and supporting the mobility policy set by Leumi. In 2014, the system was planned to be operated for clerical and managerial 8-10 ranks. Arab Israel Conduct an updated organizational attitude survey, Conducted at the beginning of Bank in a format similar to that conducted by Leumi. 2015. 87% expressed a high 88% asserted that they Increasing the use of the “employee brings a friend” Actual implementation: Over a third level of satisfaction intend to continue to Leumi Card (Friends Plus) app to recruit employees for the of the recruitments in 2014 were company. performed through this channel. from Leumi Card as a work in Leumi Card over workplace the next few years Objective for execution by end of 2015 Main activities planned Arab Israel Conduct an up-to-date organizational attitude Bank survey. Involving the Employees and · Employee meetings with the · Open Line to the Management Increasing Transparency CEO and the division heads: of Human Resources Division: Throughout the year, initiated Leumi offers an “open line” for Reexamine the format of the annual evaluation To maintain open dialogue with meetings are held between its employees to contact the process in preparation for 2016. employees and allowing them to groups of employees and the management of the HR Division express to management their views, Leumi Card CEO and division heads. These with regard to any matter. As part Lectures and workshops regarding personal needs and ideas, and allowing meetings allow for open and of the open lines, members of the Conduct an organizational week of learning and career development for all employees of management to be in touch with the direct discourse between management in the HR Division regarding personal and career development. the company. field and to become familiar with the management and various initiate discourse with employees. employees, a number of structured employee groups. In addition, In 2014, two “open lines” were mechanisms were established for members of management held, and about 180 initiated and Completed Partially Completed Not Completed discourse between employees and conduct tours of the branches incoming conversations were management. The main points of and regional offices, which held. The subjects raised included these discussions and encounters include meetings between satisfaction with courses and are documented for the benefit of employees at the branches and training, information presented on gaining insights and initiatives for the senior managers, in small the intranet website, Leumi Jobs, the future: groups. mergers, the values of Leumi and increasing transparency. A live broadcast meeting with the CEO: In 2014, two virtual meetings were held with the CEO, within the framework of which a conversation with the CEO was broadcast live to all Leumi employees. Prior to the second meeting, and as part of the conclusions drawn from the first meeting, the employees were invited to send questions (either openly or anonymously) and the CEO replied to a series of questions live. Corporate Responsibility Report 94 CREATING VALUE FOR EMPLOYEES 95 Promoting Road Safety: Leumi Card EMPLOYEE SECURITY AND SAFETY ensures that every employee that Leumi Group attaches great importance to maintaining the security, safety and health of its employees and therefore is eligible for a company vehicle invests considerable resources in creating a safe and healthy working environment for them. This approach is undergoes about five hours of reflected primarily on three levels: theoretical and practical drivers’ training, which includes training on 1. Promoting Employee Security: The Resources Division, via central noise that is slightly louder than a simulator that simulates driving Security and Safety Section in the mechanisms for promoting and that permitted under the standard while the vehicle is sliding or rolling Human Resources Division, which ensuring occupational safety: are issued adapted equipment, over. The employees undergo this is responsible for managing the security and safety of employees, · Safety Committee: A committee trained and monitored medically. training routinely once every three with the aim of protecting human comprised of representatives · Compliance with an International years. In 2014, the process was also life (customers and employees) of professional units, employee expanded to children of employees committee representatives, and Occupational Health and Safety and Leumi property and treasure. who are defined as new drivers The Section is responsible for management representatives. Standard: Leumi complies with imparting security and safety The Committee holds eight all laws, bylaws and compulsory and 26 children of employees measures, the operation of meetings over the course of the standards in the realm of underwent this training. In addition year at which irregular events security systems, protection health and safety at work. In to this, the company publishes tips and safeguarding. In addition, are discussed. The Committee members receive updates about addition, Leumi maintains the for safe driving on the daily e-mail the Section is responsible for ISO 18001 standard of the raising awareness of employees ongoing activity and special and also uploads information to the Standards Institution of Israel on issues of security, fire safety, projects which have implications organizational portal. preparation for emergencies, for employee safety and hygiene. for occupational health and earthquakes and fires, as well The Committee is comprised safety, and was the first financial as training employees how of representatives from the institution in Israel to receive this Men Women Number of days of absance due to accidents to behave in emergency and professional units – 50% of standard. which are employee committee Number of in the entire group* in 2014 criminal events. A security and representatives and the rest are occupational safety tutorial is distributed 10 23 management representatives. Initiatives for Promoting accidents and 1,965 to the employees once a year. Additionally, guidelines and The Committee also has Security and Safety for illnesses* representation from the various refreshers are distributed and Employees Number of days evacuation drills are performed. levels of management – 75% of its participants are managers and of absence as a Leumi Card 216 607 607 2. Promotion of Employee Safety: the rest are clerks. The issues result of work 465 The companies of the Group of safety are not included in the Promoting Road Safety: Leumi Card accidents* 216 treat the subject of safety in a agreement with the Employee ensures that every employee that Out of all days comprehensive manner, with Committee. is eligible for a company vehicle Women Men of absence – the strict controls. Surveys of risks undergoes about five hours of number of days and hazards in the buildings, · Conducting Surveys and Number of days of absence as a result of work accidents, including accidents theoretical and practical drivers’ of absence 0 0 carried out in the organization Performing Checks in the Units: training, which includes training on as a result of that accur during team building activities, not including road accidents from time to time, are meant to Leumi adopts a pro-active and occupational Number of days of absence as a result of road accidents during work hours ensure, on an ongoing basis, prudent approach in all matters a simulator that simulates driving illnesses that the Group’s facilities provide related to a safe working while the vehicle is sliding or rolling environment, and regularly a safe working environment over. The employees undergo this Number of cases The number of accidents that occured and that potential hazards are initiates a series of safety and training routinely once every three of death as a avoided. In the event of a work environmental checks and result of work 0 0 in Leumi Group* in 2014 years. In 2014, the process was also accident, the Group’s safety surveys, including checking for accidents* the presence of pollutants, odor expanded to children of employees 67 officers investigate and report to the relevant personnel for the hazards, and more. who are defined as new drivers * Including accidents that occur purposes of drawing conclusions and 26 children of employees during team building activities, not · Preventing Occupational Illnesses: underwent this training. In addition including road accidents. 23 and dealing with maintenance 22 The Bank takes care to prevent 10 and planning hazards, where to this, the company publishes tips occupational illnesses, conducts necessary. for safe driving on the daily e-mail environmental and health risks Women Men In 2014, the issue of safety was surveys and monitors exposed and also uploads information to the managed by the Acquisition, environments. As such, three organizational portal. Number of occupational accidents and illnesses Construction and Logistics Function units in the Bank are defined as Number of road accidents during work hours in Leumi and in the Security and being noisy work environments. Safety Sub-Division in the Human Employees who are exposed to * Not including BLUSA data Corporate Responsibility Report 96 CREATING VALUE FOR EMPLOYEES 97 HEALTH AND WELFARE OF THE EMPLOYEES Leumi Group promotes awareness of a healthy lifestyle among its employees, and invests in processes and tools intended to encourage them to maintain their health and their efficient performance at work, over time. The Group seeks to detect trends and sources of difficulty and to provide a solution to employees who require assistance. This matter is managed at the Welfare Section and at the Sports Area of the Human Resources Division at Leumi, which provides practical tools for altering behavior in the field of health. Initiatives for Promoting employees will be offered a health · Supporting Employees in Employee Health and Welfare promoting program in several Processes of their Children’s geographic regions. The pilot will Development: from first grade, Leumi address aspects of nutrition and through adolescence and up to Initiatives for Promoting Employee physical fitness. enlistment in the IDF. Health: · Blood Drives: The Bank conducts · Supporting Retirees: cultural and · Preventative Medicine: Leumi blood drives within its facilities recreational activities for Leumi allows eligible employees to throughout the country and retirees. carry out comprehensive periodic encourages its employees to · Subscriptions to Cultural medical examinations for early donate. Institutions: Leumi offers diagnosis of diseases and their Initiatives for Promoting Employee employees and retirees subsidized prevention. In addition, an anti-flu Welfare: subscriptions to cultural vaccine is offered during the fall institutions such as museums, and health insurance is offered in The welfare section at Leumi offers theaters, cinemas, opera houses the framework of the employee employees a wide range of services and dance halls. committee. The Bank’s internal and activities, including: website publishes professional · A Team of Social Workers: information regarding domestic offers assistance to employees violence, alcohol, drugs and more, in situations of personal, as well as recommendations to familial, physical, economic or perform tests and preventative MEETING PRESENT AND FUTURE OBJECTIVES treatments in the fields of breast cancer, skin cancer, smoking occupational distress. Over the past two years, much emphasis has been placed on assistance to cessation, etc. HR employees and managers in Company Objective for end of 2014 Status Explanation · Occupational Physician: an the process of mobility among the occupational physician is at the Bank’s units. Leumi Lower the number of safety accidents by 2% disposal of the Bank and its · Assistance with Stress and employees. Among other things, After reexamination of the subject, Anxiety arising in times of crisis the occupational physician Train a new organizational safety officer for the it was decided that there is no (security situations, instances of Leumi Card accompanies employees during company. need at this stage to train an robbery, fire and violence in the the process of their return to additional officer. branches). work following a long term illness. · A Welfare Fund for employees of Most of the employees and · Physical Activity: The area of sport Trust Carry out biannual training for employees, to the Bank who run into financial managers underwent training over in Leumi offers the employees a Company refresh safety guidelines at work difficulty as a result of severe 2014. variety of activities and benefits: illness and health or socialdiscounted memberships at gyms, related emergencies. Objective for execution by end of 2015 Main activities planned fitness groups at the workplace, participation in marches and · Workshops on Managing the Reduce the scope of accidents in 2015 by 3% competitions and more. A gym and Family Budget and Helping relative to 2014. sports auditorium was established Employees with Exceptional at the Leumi Services Complex in Economic Difficulties. Leumi Certification of a safety trustee in 95% of the Lod for the employees’ use. · Support in Dedicated Groups: Intended for employees that left or transferred branches or assets in which there are more than · A Systemic Program for families with a large number to another position. 25 employees Promoting a Healthy Life Style: of children; bereaved families; In 2014, a pilot was developed children of retired Leumi that will begin operating in 2015 employees who passed away and Completed Partially Completed Not Completed in the framework of which the more. Corporate Responsibility Report 98 CREATING VALUE FOR EMPLOYEES 99 Appreciation to IDF reserve personnel This benefit allows them to redeem in cash or utilize their ten excess vacation days that are granted to them by virtue of their status as disabled FUTURE OBJECTIVES IDF veterans, for the purpose of rehabilitation and recuperation. In 2013 Leumi launched a “Reserves Charter” committing itself to Leumi Card Objective for execution by end of 2015 Main activities planned upholding the rights of employees serving in the reserves and to Initiatives for Promoting Employee Health As part of the pilot, the employees will be support them, with the aim of Promoting Sport and a Healthy Diet: Leumi Card offers its employees Conducting a pilot program for a healthy lifestyle offered a health promotion program in several promoting a sympathetic attitude subsidized weight watchers classes that are held at the company’s offices. in two areas, with a view to expand the program geographic regions. The pilot will address from executives and colleagues to In addition, once a week a “Meatless Monday” is instituted in the dining hall to additional units. aspects of nutrition and physical fitness. those serving in the reserves, with where employees are offered a variety of vegetarian meals. Leumi the view that there is a close link Adapting the activity of the Section to the needs between service in the reserves and Initiatives for Promoting Employee Welfare of the employees and Bank retirees in light of the the quality of the employees – loyal The company places a range of services at the disposal of its employees and changing reality. people with values who greatly their families, including: psychological counseling at reduced cost; mortgage contribute to the organization consultancy; a fund that aids employees in financial difficulty; participation in and possess leadership and summer day fees -camps for employees’ children; financing health insurance management skills. for employees and subsidizing health insurance at attractive rates for their In 2013, Leumi was awarded the families, and more. “Reserves Shield” by the Minister In addition, the company awards its employees gifts for holidays and of Defense, the Chief of Staff and personal and family occasions, and maintains a rich informal program the Chief Reserves Officer, which including team building activities and outings for the various units, activities is awarded to the three companies during the holidays, social events, and more. that invest more than all others in employees who serve in the reserves. Tribute to IDF reserve personnel In 2014, about 500 Leumi During 2014 Leumi Card continued to support its employees serving in the employees who serve in the reserves by a public show of appreciation in different channels; by granting reserves collectively contributed a day’s leave, at the company’s expense, to employees serving 7 continuous more than 9,000 reserve days. days or more in the reserves; and an annual tribute for the employee and a spouse. This year, Leumi held a celebratory event to pay tribute to the reserves. The Bank management and the Chief Reserves Officer attended this event, to which the spouses of those serving in the reserves were invited. The event included a performance by the HaBima Theater. The Reserves Day was also marked by sending a potted plant Leumi Group promotes to the homes of the employees, accompanied by a thank you note awareness of a healthy from the President & CEO to the lifestyle among its employee and his spouse. employees, and invests During Operation Protective Edge, Leumi supported the 225 Leumi in processes and tools employees (25 of them women) intended to encourage who were called in to the reserves: gift packages were sent to the them to maintain their family members, and every employee who returned from reserve duty health and their efficient during this period received an performance at work, additional vacation day to rest and reorganize. over time. In addition to this, Leumi management approved a unique benefit to employees who are recognized as disabled IDF veterans. 100 CREATING VALUE FOR THE COMMUNITY 4 Corporate Responsibility Report 102 CREATING VALUE FOR THE COMMUNITY 103 INVESTMENT IN THE COMMUNITY The Leumi Group is a leading banking group and as such has notable and significant influence on the economic, environmental and social fabric of society in Israel. This understanding has generated the Group’s world-view and the norms to which it is committed. The Group’s commitment to the community is a societal and value-driven foundation that we continue to cultivate, and therefore the Group and its employees are committed to work towards developing society and the economy, and to reduce the negative effects of the Group on the environment. The Leumi Group manages its “Leumi Tomorrow – the Projects supported by the Leumi community investment through two Centennial Fund for Tomorrow non-profit organization Since its establishment main channels: Endowing Israel’s Future in 2014: up until the end of 2014, “Leumi Tomorrow – the Generation” (registered nonAharai! – Youth leading change: the “Leumi Tomorrow” Centennial Fund for Endowing The organization acts to integrate Israel’s Future Generation”: profit organization) children and youth at risk in Israeli organization invested this is a registered non-profit This non-profit organization invests society, through education towards an accumulated NIS organization working for in the advancement of children values, leadership development, 120 million in nonthe advancement of children and youth in peripheral areas by and the provision of tools. In and youth all over Israel. The 2014, “Leumi Tomorrow” directly profit organizations and supporting educational programs to non-profit organization is promote three main areas: supported 18 preparatory groups public bodies active on the Group’s main channel for for the IDF in peripheral areas, 17 behalf of tomorrow’s investment in the community, Developing leadership and centers preparing dropout youth and is managed by a committee promoting education for values for matriculation exams, 14 groups generation. comprising senior managers and social involvement integrating immigrants of Ethiopian in the Group. Headquarters extraction, and 11 adult centers. Raising the number of highoperations of the non-profit About 5,000 young people take organization are centralized school graduates entitled to a part every year in the organization’s in the Training Sub-Division of matriculation certificate and activities, in about 100 communities the Human Resources Division. making an academic education throughout Israel. The non-profit organization accessible for youth invests in meaningful social Raising the number of recruits projects while monitoring their for meaningful service in the IDF performance and measuring their effectiveness on a routine The programs are carried out basis. throughout the country, among a range of population sectors, and Donations and sponsorships in cooperation with schools and are granted to non-profit organizations and organizations institutes of higher education and promoting a range of social with social non-profit organizations. and community aims. Donations The Fund is financed solely Committee members are by donations of Leumi and its appointed by the President subsidiaries. and Chief Executive Officer, and they evaluate applications for support meticulously and thoroughly, in accordance with defined criteria. The Donations Committee is managed in the Training Sub-Division of the Human Resources Division, while the Sponsorships Committee is managed by the Marketing Division. The Group does not grant donations earmarked 25,000 some 25,000 youth for political parties, or for have taken part in promoting political aims. activities supported by “Leumi Tomorrow” Corporate Responsibility Report 104 CREATING VALUE FOR THE COMMUNITY 105 “Friends of Atidim” non-profit the quality of education received Social Entrepreneurship Incubator organization: “Leumi Tomorrow” by students in peripheral areas. at the Tel Aviv-Jaffa Academic 12 supports two programs that In 2014, about 400 teachers College: The Incubator operates are run by the Friends of Atidim participated in the program. with the aim of developing Jewishorganization: Arab social entrepreneurship and Ma’ase Center – Development of leadership in Jaffa. In 2014, “Leumi The Pre-Atidim program, which Volunteering Skills: The Maaseh Tomorrow” supported four projects promotes scientific excellence and Center acts to advance social developed by students in the empowerment among high-school leadership amongst at-risk program. students in peripheral areas. Some populations, through a year of 16,500 young people participate volunteering in the community. In “I am for You” in Arab Society – in the program in 200 communities 2014, “Leumi Tomorrow” supported “Leumi Tomorrow”, the Arab Israel throughout the country. activity for supplementary education Bank, and the Latet organization and developing the face of the initiated the “I am for You” The “Leumi Tomorrow” The N.A.M. Program (an acronym program in Arab society. The future of about 400 volunteers in organization invested in Hebrew for Outstanding Arab their year of voluntary service or in program acts to educate towards Youth) program, which acts to a total of NIS 12 advance excelling youngsters national service. social entrepreneurship and encouragement of volunteerism million in 2014 for from the Arab sector in the North Program for Advancing Accessibility amongst youth from weak sociotomorrow’s generation. towards higher education in to Higher Education in the Negev: economic backgrounds and youth prestigious tracks at the Technion A program to promote excellence at risk. In 2014, some 200 students In 2014, some and their integration at quality and accessibility to higher participated in the program. 25,000 youth from places of employment. In 2014, education in the South, operated some 200 students participated in by the Ben-Gurion University of the “Kimcha DePascha” In anticipation different population the program (with the support of Negev, through extra lessons and of the Passover and Ramadan sectors, and families the Arab Israel Bank). academic courses for 10th-12th festivals, the Leumi Group and from weak socioHotam program – Improving grade students. In 2014, some “Leumi Tomorrow” lead a campaign 840 students participated in the to distribute food packages to economic backgrounds Education Quality: The Hotam program. disadvantaged families throughout have taken part in program recruits quality youth with the country. Leumi employees academic degrees and trains them Nirim Youth Village: The Nirim take part in the campaign through activities by nonto serve as teachers and leaders Youth Village, located in Bustan monetary contributions, packing profit organizations in the social and geographical HaGalil, allows high risk youth to of the food parcels, and their periphery areas within the Israeli complete matriculation studies and supported by “Leumi educational system. The program to take part in a unique process of distribution to families. In 2014, the “Leumi Tomorrow” organization and Tomorrow” in about aims to reduce the social and rehabilitation and empowerment. In Leumi employees distributed food 100 communities educational gaps between the 2014, about 90 students studied at packages to more than 2,200 needy periphery areas and the center of the village. throughout the country. the country, and to help enhance families throughout the country. Distribution of “Leumi Tomorrow” Donations in 2014* Leumi Tomorrow Donations Since its Establishment (in NIS millions) Total about NIS 120.5 million Aharai! Youth leading change 41% Atidim Kimcha DePascha to needy families 13.6 12.4 12.5 Accessibility to higher education in the 12.0 Negev in Ben Gurion University 11.4 11.2 10.7 Ma’ase Center 9.4 33% Joint (JDC) Israel Hotam 8.6 8.6 Nirim Organization Youth Village social Entrepreneurship Incubator Tel 5% Aviv-Jaffa Academic College 4.9 5% 6% 2.8 2.2 6% 2% *Including future payment commitments 2% 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report 106 CREATING VALUE FOR THE COMMUNITY 107 Leumi Tomorrow!Main Results Additional projects that were granted donations and sponsorships of Leumi Tomorrow! graduates that Friends for Health (Haverim 95% enlist, complete full army service most Leumi Tommorow! graduates that enlist, complete Le’Refuah) organization: an organization that helps sick and disabled people in distress. Since Measurement of the effectiveness of community investment full army service 2010, the organization manages a fund for specialized support Expanding out of Leumi Tommorow! matriculation contributed by Leumi. In 2014, Leumi’s contribution helped 200 “The Leumi Tomorrow Centennial Fund for Endowing Israel's Future Generation Organization is evaluating Cooperation 89% students passed in mathematics patients. the effectiveness of its activity, including objectives, with the Leumi Yeladim Fair Chance for Children: most Leumi Tommorow! matriculation students achieved 3 points mathematics matriculation an organization that works to measurement, and evaluation programs. In 2013, the process of improving the reporting, control and Tomorrow! help children in boarding schools and to give them an opportunity measurement of the various “Leumi Tomorrow” projects was completed, and an emphasis was placed on measuring longOrganization similar to that of children living with are eligible for matriculation in Nirim their families. Thanks to Leumi’s term results. In 2014, Leumi 68% Most graduates of classes in Nirim Youth Village are eligable for full matriculation contribution, seven therapeutic gardens were established in the framework of the Flowering in the The unit for employee involvement in the community at Leumi engages in measurement, ongoing evaluation, and Management conducted a reexamination Garden , where Leumi employees data collection concerning the scope of volunteering by regarding the Bank’s volunteer on a weekly basis in Leumi employees, by number of volunteers and hours of investment strategy. of Maaseh Center participants partnership with boarding school volunteering. After reviewing several children. 72% approved ability Most participants of Maaseh Center felt great improvement in their ability to learn academic studies Adopt a Soldier: Leumi adopts three units as part of the Adopt a At Leumi Card, there is ongoing monitoring throughout the year of community involvement activities. Discussions are held with the volunteers and with populations within the activities principal alternatives, Leumi chose to expand thanks to the program Soldier project of the Association its strategic cooperation for the Wellbeing of Israel’s Soldiers are held, concerning the degree of success of the activity (AWIS): the Field Intelligence School, with the Leumi Tomorrow! of the graduates of Maaseh Center the Central Knights Battalion, and and its effect on the target population. In accordance with Organization Youth feedback, and where necessary, improvements are made to 48% continue to volunteer in the community About half of the graduates of Maaseh Center volunteer in the community the Duvdevan unit. Young Entrepreneurs: The organization was adopted by Leumi the activity programs. Leading Change , which will start in 2015. since its founding in Israel, twenty years ago. About 4,000 youth want to continue onto academic studies participate in the program each year from all over the country and from 73% For most participants in the “program for accessibility to higher education in the Negev”, the program strengthened their desire to learn in the future in the university all sectors. The young entrepreneurs are exposed to production processes and gain experience own time and energy in providing ongoing guidance and training on Expanding Cooperation with the Leumi Tomorrow! the substantial increase in the number of employees volunteering as part of the organization, and the financial matters and business to in marketing and sales, financial Organization establishment of an Association the young entrepreneurs. management and reporting. At the In 2014, Leumi Management of Friends chaired by the Bank’s end of the program, they dissolve Lod Development Foundation: The of Hotam teachers continue teaching the company, distribute profits (if conducted a reexamination President & CEO. 85% Most Hotam teachers continued teaching in their fourth year as well any), or decide on a contribution given to the community. Leumi supports the project both by a organization works with the aim of caring for the city of Lod on various levels. Leumi’s contribution, which started in 2013, focuses regarding the Bank’s investment strategy. After reviewing several principal alternatives, Leumi chose to expand its strategic cooperation donation to the organization and on student activity in the city as with the Leumi Tomorrow! by professional guidance and youth bringing about change. The Organization Youth Leading support of the groups of young of N.A.M graduates are employed entrepreneurs. Leumi branches students, who live in Lod during the Change”, which will start in 2015. 87% Most graduates of the N.A.M. are currently employed in the profession they studied adopt the young entrepreneur groups across the country and help them run their businesses. At the period of their studies, volunteer for the residents of the city and positively influence various spheres As part of the cooperation and support by Leumi, the organization will double the volume of its activity of the population. in the periphery areas and expand same time, the Leumi employees join the educational solutions it can in the enterprise and invest their offer to trainees. This is alongside Corporate Responsibility Report 108 CREATING VALUE FOR THE COMMUNITY 109 Secret Art: Leumi supports art are awarded on the basis of a arithmetic, to finance tutoring with in general and young artists in concept of investment, in the belief professional teachers. Total donations and social sponsorships of Leumi Group particular. In the Secret Art that its fruits will be reflected in the (NIS) in the years 2010-2014 “Adopt a Soldier”: In the framework Exhibition, held for the seventh year creation of a better society. of the “Adopt a Soldier” project 2014 29,400,000 in Leumi House, works by emerging All activities are coordinated and of AWIS, Leumi Card has adopted artists are displayed alongside the shared with the parent company, the Maglan IDF Unit. In addition to 2013 25,600,000 works of established and famous by routing the majority of social an annual financial donation for artists, and they are not signed by investment through the Leumi the welfare of the soldiers, Leumi 32,600,000 150,000,000 2012 the artist. The works are put up Above NIS Tomorrow organization. Card employees accompany the for sale, and the money is handed unit’s combatants in their field 2011 32,400,000 over to the artists. This year the As in every year, in 2014 the Bank deployments, holiday celebrations, Since 2010, Leumi Group exhibition focused on Tel Aviv . helped needy families during the sports and fun days for the unit and 2010 30,400,000 has made donations During 2014, Leumi Group donated month of Ramadan, with monetary more. donations and food products and provided social and provided sponsorships for social and community to some supplied to them directly, and Bank Leumi USA sponsorships for the 230 entities, amounting to NIS helped with donations to local nonDistribution of donations by Leumi Group 2010-2014 community totaling NIS profits and organizations. Financial education classes: for 29,410,423, which is 1.07% of the Group's net profit before tax. This individuals and in community 17.1% 16.4% 12.3% 12.1% 6.5% 150,400,000. In sports, the Bank continued to centers, by volunteering or through 3.1% amount includes the total of the give the main sponsorship to the donations from the Bank. 5.6% 6.5% 7.1% 8.2% various donations and sponsorships “Bnei Sakhnin Union” soccer teams, Free legal advice: by the CRA officer 39.5% in the framework of the Leumi recognizing the importance of 29.6% 32.7% 32.8% 24.2% Tomorrow organization, the of the Bank, through the Brooklyn promoting Arab sports associations Donations Committee, and additional Legal Services Organization, in Israel. sponsorships and donations of all as well as by donating to an Group companies: Leumi, Arab Israel The Bank also created other social organization that provides legal and 47.7% 44.4% 47.9% 55.5% 51.0% Bank, Leumi Card, Leumi Partners, partnerships as the foundation financial advice to disadvantaged the Trust Company, other small for further diversification and populations (for individuals and subsidiaries, and Leumi offices expansion of social activity, while businesses). abroad. integrating employees in volunteer Community development: donations 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 work in those social organizations. to organizations that provide Arab Israel Bank Education of Community Health Arts and Leumi Card affordable housing, counseling The Bank attaches great importance for apartment owners, shelters children and youth and society culture to active involvement and the Remedial Teaching Program of the and soup kitchens, and to a loan advancement of the aims of the Yeladim Fair Chance for Children fund that provides financing and society in which it is active, in Association: Leumi Card takes part technical assistance to projects order to aid its development and in a structured intervention program and initiatives in low-income to promote elementary school success. Financial donations and sponsorships to institutions and children according to their skills, in neighborhoods. MEETING PRESENT AND FUTURE OBJECTIVES organizations in community fields order to close learning gaps. Each such as education, culture, and year, Leumi Card grants scholarships health, in Arab society in the North to children who have difficulty in Company Objective set for end 2014 Status of Israel and the Northern Triangle, basic skills of reading, writing, and Tightening coordination with the parent Arab Israel company in the area of strategic and local Bank social investments was donated to the community NIS 29.4 Million by Leumi Group, during 2014 Objective for execution by end of 2015 Establishing a forum for investing in the 230 entities enjoyed this donation Leumi community that will manage the main financial investments in the community in Leumi (Leumi Tomorrow organization and 1.07% the Donations Committee) from a holistic This donation represents of the Group and synergetic perspective net profit before tax Completed Partially Completed Not Completed Corporate Responsibility Report 110 CREATING VALUE FOR THE COMMUNITY 111 EMPLOYEE INVOLVEMENT AND VOLUNTEERING The Leumi Group encourages awareness and social involvement of employees, including volunteering for the community and activity to reduce social disparities and promoting disadvantaged populations, with an emphasis on children and youth at risk. Volunteer activities of employees improvement of study achievements Key initiatives in the area of in the community. In 2014, five of the Group are conducted on (help with homework, mentoring, volunteering outstanding community volunteers the basis of a systemic approach lectures), and other areas (food were honored by Bank Management tailored to the needs of the harvest, food distribution, support Leumi with a grant of NIS 10,000 each, community, as expressed by social of Holocaust survivors, activity in for community activities with the Volunteering with Leumi Tomorrow! organizations and local authorities. clubs for the elderly and the like). partner community in which they Youth Leading Change: As part Managing the involvement of volunteer. The principles guiding Leumi of the strategic cooperation employees in the community employee volunteer activity: decided by the Bank’s Management, includes performance measurement, employee volunteering will increase appreciation of volunteers, • A concept of long-term, developing new partnerships significant communal partnership in the Aharai! organization. As part Arab Israel Bank of this, a work program was formed, and support content and the and coordination between Appreciation for volunteers: In volunteer programs were prepared, appointment of social leaders employees’ abilities and the Annual Employee Conference, and new collaborations were responsible for leading the issue in community needs a ceremony took place honoring launched across the country. At the the units. Employee volunteering is the volunteers and a presentation • Diverse volunteer activities, same time, ongoing volunteering run by the Training Sub-Division of was prepared on the community varying in scope and nature, in continues in dozens of clubs, senior the Human Resources Division. activities of the Bank. After accordance with the volunteers’ citizens homes, hospitals and more. Volunteering by Leumi Group skills and the needs of the all volunteer activity, a digital Leumi for financial education: In newsletter is distributed with employees focuses on activity on community 2014, volunteer programs were information for all Bank employees behalf of tomorrow’s generation, • Volunteer involvement in building developed and assimilated dealing about volunteering – in order and is carried out through social the volunteer process, and – as a with financial education for to show appreciation for the and value enrichment (in afternoon result – a strengthening of their children, youth and families. Within volunteers and for setting an programs, kindergartens, schools, commitment this framework, training kits and example. hostels, rehabilitation centers, and information on the subject were hospitals), improvement of living Activity within the local community, developed and a training course conditions (food distribution, with a focus on children and was held for employees volunteering renovation, collecting equipment), youth –”tomorrow’s generation “ in providing financial assistance for families. Leumi volunteers combine professional content as part of ongoing volunteering in Total number of volunteer Total number of the Pa’amonim Association and hours in the Group volunteers in the Group give support to families in financial in Israel in Israel distress. In addition, within the 5,746 Leumi framework of cooperation with the 5,765 “Shiur Acher” Association, Leumi 5,342 volunteers give financial education 42,343 42,843 5,165 classes in schools. Group employees 40,825 4,527 Volunteers survey: In December 2014, a survey was conducted took part in among Leumi employees on the volunteer activities subject of volunteering. The survey in the past year. 36,384 results showed that employees feel great satisfaction with community involvement, as well as appreciation These employees and pride from the fact that the Bank encourages its employees to contributed to volunteer in the community. the community, Appreciation for volunteers: Every year, in the Annual Managers’ 42,843 hours of 2011 2012 2013 2014 2011 2012 2013 2014 Conference, Leumi honors outstanding employees volunteering volunteering. Corporate Responsibility Report 112 CREATING VALUE FOR THE COMMUNITY 113 Average volunteer hours per volunteer by company 2011-2014 13.9 1 million 10.6 9.6 9.6 7.87 8.2 8.2 7.4 8.4 NIS 7.6 8.2 8.0 7.4 6.94 6.7 7.1 7.8 14:52 The monetary 0 0 0 2.0 2.0 1.0 2.1 ‫לאומי אחרי‬ investment of the Total Group in Israel Leumi Arab Israel Bank Leumi Card Leumi Partners Trust Company bank in employee involvement in the 2011 2012 2013 2014 community Percentage of volunteers out of total employees in Israel Leumi Card distributed by subsidiary companies 2011-2014 100% 100% Leumi Card has adopted three 92% bodies in the community in a long90% term partnership, donating money to them and maintaining many volunteer activities with them over 54% 45% 44% 39% 51% 45%44% 42%39% 44% 43% the course of the year: 39% 27% Komemiyut School: an elementary 23% 28% school in the Pardes Katz 14% 8% 8% neighborhood, with 200 students. 0 0 The “Book Success Story” project is the flagship project of Leumi Total Group in Israel Leumi Arab Israel Bank Leumi Card Leumi Partners Trust Company 14:55 Card in the school. The project aims to encourage children to read 2011 2012 2013 2014 ‫לאומי אחרי‬ books in an experiential way. Under the project, this for the fourth consecutive year, fifth graders of the school come to the company’s offices once a week, for lunch and a personal book-reading encounter with a volunteer employee serving as a “big brother” (each student has a permanent employee accompanying him throughout the year). “Ahuzat Sarah” Boarding School: a boarding school for children removed from their homes by court order. Leumi Card’s flagship project in the boarding school is the adoption of an Israel Trail project. In addition to the financing of the project, Leumi Card employees join a trip each month to the Israel Trail with children of the boarding school 15:02 that have reached Bar Mitzva. Maglan IDF Unit: During the year, Leumi Card employees volunteer regularly in peak activities and ongoing and permanent volunteer activities with the Unit’s soldiers. Corporate Responsibility Report 114 CREATING VALUE FOR THE COMMUNITY 115 MEETING PRESENT AND FUTURE OBJECTIVES Company Objective set for end 2014 Status Explanation Objective for execution by end of 2015 Main activities planned A training course was held for employees on Creating volunteer opportunities Increasing the number of volunteers with volunteering in professional matters and training throughout the year students of Aharai! to 400 of volunteers accompanied the Pa’amonim Development of professional content organization. Leumi for volunteers' use Accompanying volunteers, refreshing content Developing ideas and collaborations Programs have been developed for ongoing volunteering and games for assimilating learning and appreciation for social leaders and and communicating them to leaders and used by the volunteers in activities volunteers in order to preserve, strengthen and volunteers deepen ongoing activity in the community Gradual increase of volunteer Carried out as part of the enrichment during activities in the sphere of financialvolunteering (above) Increasing collaboration with community Increasing the number of volunteers to 50, or education Arab Israel Bank partners and the expansion of activities about 11% of all Bank employees and the number of volunteers. Leumi There is ongoing aid connecting units and volunteers with community officials and for Recruiting permanent volunteers for weekly Creating more opportunities for Opening fifth cycle of the Book-Success Story tutoring; integrating peak group activities identifying volunteer opportunities. In addition, employee volunteerism in the project in the 2015-2016 school year (alongside individual guidance) bring there is development of volunteer programs community added value with students of Leumi Tomorrow , in order to increase the number of volunteers. Leumi Card Maintaining contact with volunteers in Integration of Mortgage division In light of the merger between the companies, Keeping a rate of 40% of volunteers out of the the field (and recruiting new volunteers), employees in Leumi’s volunteer the activity of the social leaders of the mortgage company total employees refreshing the volunteering Gant chart and activity, including the use of the division was incorporated in volunteering at supporting by means of an envelope of website, the reporting system and the Leumi intra-organizational communication budget Maintaining at least 80% of volunteers among Trust Company Examination and refreshing of Company employees Arab Israel communal partners in keeping with Bank updated Group strategy for investment in community Maintaining a high percentage of In 2014, the percentage of volunteers in the volunteers, while expanding the Company was more than 44%. The number of Leumi range of activities and continuing volunteer activities rose by 12% and ties were Card to strengthen ties with community strengthened with partners partners Return to the routine of volunteering In 2013, volunteer activity of employees was among employees, offering deferred due to organizational constraints and Leumi alternatives and a new volunteering was not renewed in 2014 Partners program Maintaining a high percentage of 85% of the company's employees volunteered in Trust volunteers among the company's 2014 Company employees at least 80% in 2014 Completed Partially Completed Not Completed 116 PPROMOTING RESPONSIBLE PROCUREMENT 5 Corporate Responsibility Report 118 PPROMOTING RESPONSIBLE PROCUREMENT 119 SUPPLY CHAIN Procurement activity in Leumi is comprised of, among others, the acquisition of products and services on an ongoing basis and acquisition of equipment for projects as needed. Procurement is done mostly in a centralized manner for all Leumi units, including some of the subsidiary companies. The Bank Leumi Procurement Sub-Division is responsible for locating suitable suppliers, screening vendors, requests for proposals, conducting negotiations, contracting with suppliers and the ongoing relationship with them. Procurement in Leumi is divided into technology procurement (hardware, software, product maintenance, and consultants), general procurement (office equipment, security and safety, deliveries, mailing, miscellaneous) and construction and maintenance procurement. The Group works with several suppliers that provide products specific to the banking industry, such as ATMs and machines for counting banknotes. More than 90% of procurement is carried out with local suppliers registered in Israel. Leumi Group strives to maintain long-term, proper, and responsible relationships with suitable suppliers, while managing an open dialogue in all areas of activity. 90 More than 90% of procurement is % Implementing corporate social responsibility in procurement and in the supply chain requires looking at two key carried out with aspects: responsible conduct with suppliers and expanding the positive impact on the community through procurement. local suppliers registered in Israel. RESPONSIBLE CONDUCT WITH SUPPLIERS · Fair and ethical conduct when · Control of payments to suppliers: · Dialogue with suppliers: Leumi dealing with suppliers: In 2013 The Payments Unit in the Finance operates a secure supplier a Charter was formulated that Division conducts monitoring of portal, allowing the transfer of is based on the “Leumi Way” the payment process to reduce contract documents and invoices and outlines the manner of possible arrears to suppliers. The for payment in an efficient, conduct of the Group with its process is examined frequently rapid, and transparent manner suppliers, with an emphasis on and measures are taken for between Leumi and its vendors. Distribution of procurement in Bank Leumi 2014 equality, transparency, sensitivity its improvement as part of the In addition, Leumi operates a to conflict of interest, using dialogue with suppliers and the page for suppliers on the Leumi discretion, confidentiality, fairness, maintenance of good relations website with general information professionalism and protecting with them. on contracting with the Bank and the environment. other subjects. 12% During 2014, the Group worked with more than 1,000 suppliers*. 66% 22% 100 new vendors joined this year’s procurement cycle of the Leumi Group. All new suppliers in Leumi are screened according to criteria of the employment and human rights (employment conditions, safety, etc.). As appropriate and depending on the type and extent of engagement, Technological procurement when contracting with major suppliers, Leumi includes clauses related to General procurement commitment to human and employee rights Construction & maintenance procurement All construction and maintenance providers at Leumi are screened according to environmental criteria * All data presented in the below data row does not include overseas offices. Corporate Responsibility Report 120 PPROMOTING RESPONSIBLE PROCUREMENT 121 EXPANDING THE POSITIVE IMPACT ON THE COMMUNITY THROUGH PROCUREMENT Initiatives to promote responsible conduct with The growing awareness regarding supply chain management and its effects on the environment and the community, has led to new thinking about the way in which Leumi selects suppliers and products. Suppliers are required to suppliers declare, when appropriate, their maintaining of issues such as air pollution, water pollution, soil pollution, noise, odor, Prepayment to suppliers in Southern Israel in Operation ionizing and non-ionizing radiation, waste, hazardous materials, business licensing, causing nuisances, harm to public Protective Edge: Businesses from the south of Israel with health and environmental quality, tort liability and responsibility regarding safety and hygiene at work. a deferred payment agreement with the Bank were invited to send invoices to the Bank for the purpose of bringing In 2014, extensive work was carried · Examination of the terms of Promoting Social forward the payment regardless of the payment terms out to examine considerations employment: Leumi Group makes Procurement specified in the agreement with the Bank. of corporate responsibility, sure that in the process of signing social procurement, and green contracts, companies providing In 2014, Leumi carried out Examining supplier satisfaction with the conduct of Leumi: procurement, and the assimilation services such as cleaning, centralized procurement of gift In 2014, a satisfaction survey was conducted among Leumi of its conclusions will continue in security and catering make a items from non-profit organizations suppliers. The survey asked 200 suppliers (a representative the coming years. Currently, the declaration that they comply with and social businesses of sample of about 20%) on their satisfaction with the Bank’s examination of suppliers includes the provisions of labor law. Leumi approximately NIS 1 million. These conduct with them, so as to reflect implementation of the two main topics: employment Group carries out periodic spot figures do not include procurement “Suppliers’ Charter” (see above on pg. 118). The survey conditions and compliance with checks using its own auditors to from non-profit organizations indicates a very high level of satisfaction of suppliers with environmental laws. make sure that the conditions made separately by Leumi units and the work of the Bank (scores ranging from 8.4 to 9.5), of employment of the employees divisions. with an emphasis on maintaining confidentiality, fairness, Following the work done, the of the companies comply with courtesy, professionalism, working together and providing Group is examining the possibility the requirements of the law. equal opportunity for suppliers. The survey results were of adding another four topics for In the event these tests raise presented to Division Management at the beginning of consideration in connection with deficiencies, the companies are 2015 and suggestions for improvement will be reviewed suppliers: required to correct them. during the year. · Review of the supplier’s conduct · Weighted evaluation of suppliers: Procurement processes in the Procurement Sub-Division regarding employment termsLeumi uses a computerized are performed while strictly maintaining transparency fair employment, occupational method of evaluating suppliers, with suppliers: There is an increasing trend for proposed diversity, etc. which helps evaluate the quotations to be received by use of an online system, · Examination of the supplier’s performance of suppliers, through which the Bank forwards the request for proposal conduct regarding environmental document evaluation scores in a and the supplier submits the proposal. The system allows issues air pollution, waste in database, and use these data as for the submission of questions and giving a uniform production processes, and the a tool for evaluating suppliers in response uniformly to all the suppliers participating in the procurement process. In addition, the phase of selecting use of green products. processes that take place at the Total procurement from the winning supplier is conducted while maintaining Bank from time to time. non-profit organizations · Examination of the supplier’s separation between aspects of quality and cost. After an conduct regarding human In addition, the Group is working to and social business in initial screening depending on the quality, the winning expand its positive effects on the supplier is selected according to cost. rights – maintaining freedom of Leumi in 2011-2014 association etc. community through procurement, by Increasing transparency is implemented in some of the the promotion of local procurement, procurement procedures, through an online procurement · Examination of the proper of suppliers who employ workers 1,000,000 with disabilities, or suppliers who 951,000 process in which suppliers participate in a real-time tender. business conduct and ethics of the supplier the supplier’s employ workers belonging to the The Procurement Sub-Division at Leumi is rigor about involvement in cases of ultra-Orthodox sector and suppliers managing the procurement process by two representatives corruption, bribery, embezzlement, active in peripheral areas. 671,800 from the Bank. fraud and the like. Promoting Local Procurement 455,000 The Procurement Sub-Division is responsible for managing At the end of 2014, more than 90% the relationship with suppliers. of procurement is carried out with The examination of suppliers is local suppliers registered in Israel. carried out in cooperation with additional units of the Bank. Below are the processes and activities implemented in the Group: 2011 2012 2013 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report 122 PPROMOTING RESPONSIBLE PROCUREMENT 123 Initiatives to expand the positive impact on the community through procurement Leumi of products, the rate of decay of salary slips of all employees Defining criteria Defining criteria for green of materials, the use of recycled or easily recyclable materials, for 2013 in the areas of cleaning, security, and catering employed by for green procurement: In 2014, modularity and ease of reuse, the an external company. The findings recommended environmental criteria use of hazardous materials, saving were transferred for internal review procurement: were defined for procurement processes in construction, energy and water resources, and at the Salaries and Compensation more. Function, and subsequently the In 2014, maintenance, and electronic products, with the aim of reducing findings were sent to the employing recommended the environmental impact of the Bank. The list includes reference Leumi Card Examination of suppliers: In 2014, companies. environmental to cleaning materials, packaging an examination was carried out criteria were defined for procurement processes in MEETING PRESENT AND FUTURE OBJECTIVES construction, maintenance, Company Objective for end of 2014 Status Explanation and electronic A work plan was formulated and carried out on the issue of corporate social products, with the Formulating a work plan on the issue responsibility in procurement that included aim of reducing Leumi of corporate social responsibility in procurement performing a survey of suppliers, mapping suppliers by criteria, and fixing milestones the environmental for the assimilation of other corporate social responsibility considerations in procurement. impact of the Performing due diligence examination of Bank. Leumi Card wages payments to service contractors of the Company: Annual testing a sample An independent examination was carried out of the pay slips of workers employed. The of the salary slips of employees of the findings were passed to the companies for service-provider companies as required their treatment. by law Objective for execution by end Main activities planned of 2015 Cooperation with the “Maala” Sending a questionnaire to potential suppliers regarding organization in examining compliance by Leumi their compliance with norms of corporate social suppliers with norms of corporate social responsibility responsibility Updating the procurement procedure: adding reference to aspects of socio-environmental responsibility in the Leumi Card Promoting aspects of corporate social procedure. responsibility in procurement processes Examining activities supporting the promoting of aspects of socio-environmental responsibility in procurement processes. Completed Partially Completed Not Completed 124 CREATING ENVIRONMENTAL VALUE 6 Corporate Responsibility Report 126 CREATING ENVIRONMENTAL VALUE 127 MANAGEMENT OF ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS The Leumi Group is conscious of the fact that environmental issues have become an inseparable part of the worldwide system of financial and business considerations, and the effect of these issues on the markets in which it currently operates and on those in which it will operate in the future. The Group recognizes its environmental responsibility and the fact that its business activity can affect the environment, both directly and indirectly. All Group companies aim to conduct their activity in such a way as to consistently diminish adverse effects on the environment, in compliance with legal obligations and, in the absence of legislation, with the aspiration to adopt voluntarily the accepted and leading standards in the sector. The main impact of the Leumi Group on the environment is derived from Bank Leumi and Leumi Card In 2014, Leumi three main factors: are certified for Environmental Management Standard ISO 14001 was awarded · Energy consumption: consumption of electricity, consumption of gasoline for transportation and consumption of diesel fuel in transport and (in 2012 and 2009 respectively). the Green Label emergency generators. As part of management of the issue, quarterly discussions are for product · Carbon footprint: derived from direct emissions (fuel consumption) and indirect emissions (consumption of electricity). held regularly by the Group, on its environmental impact, accompanied and service on · Waste and water: responsible removal of electronic waste and paper waste, and total water consumption. by external parties (a consultancy behalf of the company and the Israel Standards The Group's operations are characterized mainly by office activity, and most Institute). Leumi also holds Energy Israel Standards of the energy consumption is derived from the consumption of electricity in Head Office buildings in Group premises, branches, and units. The Leumi Systems Management Standard ISO 50001, Safety Standard ISO 18001, Institute. Leumi is Group makes great efforts to identify actions that will improve efficiency and Quality Standard ISO 9001. the first financial and conserve energy. These efforts are reflected in moves to increase energy efficiency, leading not only to the benefit of the environment but Furthermore, in 2014 the Bank was the first financial institution in organization in also to the streamlining operations regarding consumption of electricity, air conditioning, lighting and fuel consumption. Leumi promotes the issue of Israel certified for the Green Label for Service of the Israel Standards Israel holding this saving energy in the design of new facilities, energy efficiency and saving resources in existing facilities. Institute. In addition to external standard mark. standards, an internal standard The Building and Maintenance Sub-Division at Leumi is responsible for was introduced in Leumi for Green systematic annual measurement and the management of environmental Conduct, in which internal checks issues in the Bank (at the Head Office and branches) and directing the are made every year in the branches subsidiary companies. As part of this, a large amount of data is gathered, on a series of environmental such as electricity consumption, fuel consumption, water u, paper criteria. A branch found to be up to consumption, recycling of paper and recycling of electronic waste. standard receives a diploma. Furthermore, the Sub-Division leads processes to install systems and solutions leading to savings in electricity and savings in fuel consumption: · Installation of control systems for electricity consumption · Installation of an innovative computerized system that allows optimum use of the air conditioning system · Installation of energy-saving lighting systems · Implementation of green elements in new construction and renovations of existing branches · Operation of an employee shuttle system between two of the Bank's Head Office buildings This streamlining affords a substantial reduction in both emissions of pollutants and the consumption of non-renewable resources. Corporate Responsibility Report 128 CREATING ENVIRONMENTAL VALUE 129 ENERGY CONSUMPTION The total energy consumption of the Leumi Group in 2014 was 381,214 gigajoules. This indicates a reduction of 7.3% in energy consumption compared with 2013. This reduction includes a decrease of 7.32% in electricity consumption, a 6.42% decline in gasoline consumption, and a 26% reduction in diesel fuel consumption. Total electricity Total gasoline consumption Total diesel fuel Total energy Year consumption* (GJ) for transport (GJ) consumption (GJ) consumption (GJ) 2009 291,600 41,828 333,428 2010 357,959 66,404 41 424,404 7.3 2011 350,834 69,892 5,960 426,686 · Environmental Trustees: also examines the indirect impacts 2012 350,950 72,881 6,377 430,208 Environmental trustees have been of its activities. These impacts, appointed in all the branches of derived from the development of 2013 335,034 72,623 3,694 411,351 Leumi and Arab Israel Bank, as products of environmental value well as headquarters offices, who (see further details in the chapter 2014 310,518 67,962 2,733 381,214 are responsible for managing on Customers, under Development * Total electricity consumption includes 85,000 kWh that were produced by photovoltaic cells and were sold back to % environmental issues (including energy conservation), and for monitoring the consumption data of Environmental Products) and environmental risk management (see further details in the chapter Israel Electric Company. of electricity and water in their on Economic Impacts and Electricity Consumption Reduction in Energy units. . Responsible Management, under Due to the nature of banking activity, most of the energy consumption (81%) of the Group arises from consumption Consumption · The Green Forum: The Green Risk Management). of electricity. Accordingly, Leumi Group invests its efforts in projects and processes resulting in a reduction in Forum was established in 2007 Leumi is also working to reduce electricity consumption alongside projects to reduce the use of fuel. Electricity consumption of the Leumi Group was In 2014, there was a with the aim of promoting and indirect impacts resulting from reduced in 2014 by 7% and amounted to 86,255,109 kWh. reduction of 7.3% in developing the environmental energy consumption. In this context, Leumi began to measure its energy intensity to test the effectiveness of measures taken to reduce the consumption the Group’s energy issues in Leumi Group, with a the Bank offers digital solutions that of electricity and fuel. The intensity is measured against the number of employees in Leumi. This figure shows that focus on the direct impacts allow customers to receive service consumption of the Group's activities. The between 2012 and 2014 there was a decrease in energy intensity, explained by the steps taken to increase energy without needing to visit the branch. efficiency and the transition to purchase electricity produced from natural gas from the Dorad Company. Forum includes representatives This helps to reduce the distance from all units of the Bank and driven by customers for service the relevant subsidiaries, and in the branches and to reduce air meets once a quarter. The pollution and fuel consumption by Forum is led by an office holder the customer. Breakdown of Energy Consumption Energy Intensity (Total appointee responsible for environmental issues in Leumi. Note: The data in the chapter by Source in 2014 kWh/No. of Employees) Reports environmental issues Creating Environmental Value refer of Leumi Group 2014 are made to Group Management to the environmental performance and the Board of Directors once of Leumi Bank, Arab Israel Bank and a year within the framework of Leumi Card, which employ about 92% of the positions in the Group 1% 8,325.02 the discussions on corporate responsibility. (as defined in the report) and are 18% Total electricity the source of 86% of its revenue. · Employee Training: Leumi Group consumption (GJ) 8,065.26 References by us in this chapter attaches great importance to to Leumi Group refer to these Total gasoline consumption assimilating environmental companies only, unless otherwise for transport (GJ) content among employees. In stated. addition to the activities of the 7,620.38 Total diesel fuel environmental trustees and the In 2014 there was a change consumption (GJ) Green Forum, from time to time and update of the DEFRA energy Group employees are required to 81% coefficients. Due to the fact that undergo training and refresher the Group’s energy consumption courses on environmental issues. calculation is based on these coefficients, data presented in this 2012 2013 2014 In addition to managing direct report may differ from the data environmental impacts as a result presented in previous reports. of the Bank’s activities, the Bank Corporate Responsibility Report 130 CREATING ENVIRONMENTAL VALUE 131 Breakdown of Energy Consumption by Source 2010-2014 Energy Consumption (kWh) in Leumi Group by year environmental aspects are integrated such as thermal protection on windows on warm facades, remote 99,432,993 97,453,986 97,486,000 control systems and more. 66,404 69,892 72,881 93,065,051 41 72,623 5,960 6,377 67,962 86,255,109 3,694 Leumi Card 2,733 Carbon offsets: As part of setting goals to reduce energy consumption, and taking into account that the Company leases space in a condominium, it was decided to invest in offsetting 357,959 350,834 350,950 335,034 310,518 Total electricity consumption (GJ) carbon emissions in one of the Total gasoline consumption for transport (GJ) entities that the Company has adopted as part of its contribution Total diesel fuel consumption (GJ) to the community. Carbon offsetting can be done by financing projects that reduce greenhouse 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 gas emissions outside of the 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 organization for example by funding energy efficiency projects, Initiatives for reduction of buildings. Obsolete and inefficient energy monitoring systems and improving waste management lighting fixtures were replaced intelligent building systems at Total electricity consumption in Leumi Card (kWh) energy consumption or planting trees that fix carbon with new, more efficient fixtures. the branches and headquarters Total electricity consumption in Arab Israel Bank (kWh) dioxide. Within this context, the Furthermore, several LED-type buildings, properties that allow for Bank has decided to support Leumi lighting fixtures were installed, which the analysis of energy consumption Total electricity consumption in Bank Leumi (kWh) one of the entities that the Transition to consumption of are characterized by high-energy characteristics at the headquarters Total electricity consumption (kWh) organization has adopted as part electricity produced from natural efficiency and a very long life span. and branches. of their community investment.The gas: During 2014, Leumi started Conducting energy surveys: An Thermal coating for windows: The selected initiative is investment in consuming most of its electricity energy survey was carried out by an Bank installs a transparent coating the establishment of a solar roof from a company generating external company in the secondary with thermal insulation properties in in Kfar Ofarim , a home for adult electricity using natural gas. computer site of the Bank and order to reduce the penetration of autistics in Ramat Hasharon. This move greatly reduced the internal energy surveys were carried radiant heat through the windows. Energy efficiency: In every carbon footprint and negative out at branches (by Bank staff). Circulated air treatment system: renovation or new construction it environmental impact of Leumi. Remote energy monitoring: A circulated air filtering system has been decided that light bulbs Optimization of air conditioning Installing of remote monitoring was installed in the existing air are to be replaced with T5 type systems: Improving the efficiency and control systems for electricity conditioning system in order to energy saving light bulbs, a system of existing air conditioning systems consumption in the branches and reduce the entry of warm and moist was acquired for the remote turning and turning off air conditioners at a expanding existing systems for air from the outside. This system off of computers, times were set designated time. building control in management leads to energy savings. The Bank to turn off air conditioners and buildings and headquarters units. intends to install additional systems. lighting in a number of automated Replacement of lighting fixtures rounds at the end of the workday, with cost-effective lighting: In 2014, Analysis of the characteristics of Green building: When establishing and controllers were purchased several steps were taken in this area energy consumption in branches: a new branch and in a massive to reduce energy consumption in in the branches and headquarters The Bank frequently installs renovation of an existing branch, lighting circuits. Implementation of these processes 7.3% Reduction in Electricity Consumption in Group companies is reflected in a reduction in electricity consumption over the years. Electricity consumption of the Leumi Group 6.4% Reduction in Gasoline Consumption was reduced in 2014 by 7% and amounted to 86,255,109 kWh18. 26% Reduction in Diesel Fuel Consumption 18. Total electricity consumption includes 85,000 kWh that were produced by photovoltaic cells and were sold back to Israel Electric Company. Corporate Responsibility Report 132 CREATING ENVIRONMENTAL VALUE 133 As part of the Fuel Consumption Leumi Card promotion of Fuel consumption of the Leumi Group is mainly for its fleet of Reducing the distance driven by employees: As part of efforts to sustainable vehicles. In 2014, 2,075,868 liters reduce the distance driven, Leumi Card has a procedure limiting transport in of gasoline and 76,061 liters of diesel were consumed. kilometers in leisure time for Leumi, bicycle Leumi Shuttle service for employees: employees using company vehicles. Under this procedure, the Company parking lots In order to save fuel and optimize offers its employees 2,000 km per were built at the transit of employees between the two management and services month for driving in leisure time. Any deviation from this amount, on the Head Office centers, located in Tel Aviv and an annual average, is charged to the Lod, Leumi hired the services of a building in Tel transportation company to carry out employee’s salary. In addition, Leumi Card encourages employees to Aviv and in the organized transportation between come to work by bicycle, for which the two sites. Leumi Service a special facility was built for their storage. Bicycle parking and showers for Campus in cyclists: As part of the promotion Lod (where of sustainable transport in Leumi, Overseas offices bicycle parking lots were built at Administration the Head Office building in Tel Aviv Measures to reduce fuel and Operations and in the Leumi Service Campus in Lod (where Administration and consumption: The vehicle fleet of the Romanian office consists of are located). Operations are located). Showers vehicles with small engines (1.2-1.4 Showers were were also installed intended for employees who choose to come to liters) that consume relatively little fuel and conform to the EURO 5 also installed work by bike and want to freshen Standard. up after a morning's ride. Some intended for Leumi employees actually prefer to employees who come to work every day by bicycle and give up on travel in vehicles choose to come that use gasoline. to work by bike and want to freshen up after a morning's ride Reducing the volume of average energy consumption per employee 5.52% reduction in energy intensity per employee compared with 2013 8.4% reduction compared with 2012 Corporate Responsibility Report 134 CREATING ENVIRONMENTAL VALUE 135 CARBON FOOTPRINT As part of the environmental policy, in addition to monitoring processes and measurement of its environmental impacts, there is a regular calculation of greenhouse gas emissions as a result of Group activities (energy consumption, fuel combustion, kilometers traveled, etc.). Data is reported every year in several reporting frameworks: the international reporting initiative Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP), the Israel Ministry of Environmental Protection voluntary greenhouse gas registry and reporting of emissions in Israel, the annual Corporate Responsibility Report and the Maala rating. The systematic management of the issue relates to two main areas: · Reducing direct emissions: In accordance with the reporting standard19 of greenhouse gas emissions, the direct impact emissions that do not derive from direct energy consumption (Scope 3) are also calculated, such as flights and activities of subcontractors. The carbon footprint of the The Carbon Footprint reduction is due to the widespread transition to 34 % reduction in the carbon footprint of the Group thanks to the transition to the consumption of electricity produced from natural gas and promoting energy efficiency measures (Scope 1) of greenhouse gases in Leumi Group stem mainly from Leumi Group in 2014 is 46,812.6 consumption of tons of CO2eq. The footprint is the combustion of gasoline by the considerably smaller (34%) than electricity produced organization’s fleet of vehicles, from the combustion of diesel fuel that measured in 2013. In 2014, by natural gas and 60.9% of the electricity consumed generators used for emergencies, by Leumi was produced from natural energy efficiency and from emissions of refrigerant gases from the air conditioning gas. Alongside actions to reduce measures. In energy consumption, a significant systems in Group facilities. reduction in Scope 2 emissions, 2014, 60.9% of · Reducing indirect emissions: Indirect emissions (Scope 2) stem which represent about 89% of the carbon footprint of Group the electricity from electricity consumption. companies in Israel, was recorded. consumed by Leumi Indirect emissions depend on the composition of fuels and was produced from the technologies with which natural gas. the electricity is produced. In Leumi’s report to the CDP, indirect Breakdown of Carbon Carbon Footprint Intensity (ton CO2eq to number Measures to Reduce the Carbon Footprint (ton of CO2eq) Footprint by Scope (ton of CO2eq) of employees) of Leumi Group 2011-2014 Carbon Footprint 2010-2014 2012-2014 Leumi Group works hard to identify actions that will bring greater efficiency and savings in energy 6,155 7.07 consumption which directly impact 5,756 6.17 the carbon footprint of the Group 82,828 77,201 75,997 and climate change. 71,164 These efforts are reflected mainly in 5,264 4.14 moves to increase energy efficiency 46,812 and the transition to consumption of electricity produced by natural gas. The results of the process are evident in the decline in intensity of the carbon footprint (ton of CO2eq 76,673 65,408 41,548 Scope 1 to number of employees) of Leumi Scope 2 between 2012 and 2014. 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 19. GHG Protocol for quantifying and managing emissions: http://www.ghgprotocol.org/about-ghgp. Corporate Responsibility Report 136 CREATING ENVIRONMENTAL VALUE 137 RECYCLING AND RESPONSIBLE DISPOSAL The Group's commitment to environmental protection includes responsible disposal of its waste. Most of the waste generated by the Group is electronic waste and paper waste. The waste is collected and sent for removal by licensed contractors. Leumi Card clear working procedures regarding 2014 a training meeting was held in the removal of construction waste the Center for environmental trustees. Leumi Card Company has handled (in licensed landfill sites and In addition, during the year the Paperless Bank Project: At the beginning of 2015, Leumi waste in accordance with the collection of used light bulbs for deployment was completed of special announced the establishment of the Paperless Bank working procedures defined in the recycling). containers for the collection of Project in order to significantly reduce paper consumption ISO 14001 Standard since 2009. batteries at all branches of the Bank, in the Bank. The Company’s waste is sent for as a service to the general public, recycling and eco-safe disposal. Leumi’s organizational concept includes many aspects of Arab Israel Bank and Bank customers in particular. The organization has placed paper usage: management of customer documents, receiving The used batteries are taken for special containers for the collection Arab Israel Bank continues its external documents, producing documents for customers, responsible treatment by means of of paper, batteries, beverage handling internal documents (including their creation, cooperation with the Educational Leumi’s Banking Services Center. containers, toners, feminine hygiene archiving and retrieval) along with improving the customer Center of the Towns Association for products, electronic equipment, and experience and the employee experience. Environmental Quality Beit Netofa medication. In addition, there are Valley located in Sakhnin, and in Over the next two years, examination will be made of service processes and document management processes, in order to improve them and greatly reduce paper usage both when working with Bank customers and in internal processes. Reducing paper consumption by consolidating printing Total Electronic Waste Disposal in Leumi, Arab Israel, houses: in 2014, Leumi consolidated its printing houses, and Leumi Card in the Years 2010-2014 in order to save paper and energy, electricity costs and printing costs. To this end, a unique and innovative solution 72.9 allows printing from different computer systems, by 65 62 means of a single, cost-effective printing center. Thanks 50 49 to consolidating the printing houses, it is possible to carry out double-sided printing and the optimal adjustment of paper size. This move is expected to save printing of some 62 12.2 three million pages (about 15 tons of paper) per year and 2.90 0.0 2.60 1.7 2.08 1.2 2.58 3.2 3.47 save 67% of the energy associated with printing, as well as saving on fuel and pollution due to reducing the need to 2011 2011 2012 2013 2014 make deliveries from the printing houses to the branches, Leumi Arab Israel Leumi Card and the amount of paper conveyed to the branches. % Total Paper Recycling in Leumi, Arab Israel, and Leumi Card in the Years 2010-2014 The move won the IT 2014 Awards Competition of the magazine People and Computers in the Technological Infrastructure category. An increase 1,024 1,152 of 62.2% in 1,008 1,000 the volume of 959 electronic waste transferred to responsible disposal 28 34 36 34 40 18 36 17 21 19 2011 2011 2012 2013 2014 Leumi Arab Israel Leumi Card Corporate Responsibility Report 138 CREATING ENVIRONMENTAL VALUE 139 MEETING PRESENT AND FUTURE OBJECTIVES Company Objective for end of 2014 Status Explanation Objective for execution by end of 2015 Main activities planned Completion of certification of environmental trustees in at least 90% Leumi of the Bank’s branches Overall reduction in electricity consumption of Renewal of old air conditioning systems, 1% compared with 2014 changing light bulbs, use of control systems etc. Relative reduction of 1% in electricity consumption per square meter Leumi A draft was prepared for the procedure in “Green Mail”: sending emails to customers of the To increase the number of customers joining the Completion of drafting and adoption of Banking Division instead of letters service by 28 thousand cooperation with professional staff. Will be an environmental procedure completed by the end of 2015 Formalizing the requirement from Holding an Awareness Week for reduction of Holding an Awareness Week for raising refrigerant system contractors to collate A system was constructed for measuring data environmental impacts of employees at work awareness of employees to environmental issues and report data on consumption of by an app. Will be completed by the end of and at home Arab Israel refrigerant gases and reporting on 2015 Bank greenhouse gas emissions Setting up a mini-portal in the organizational portal, involving employees in activities carried Completion of formalization of Construction of designated content world in the out in the organization for reducing consumption environmental data management system organizational portal for environmental activities and resources, and providing a platform for general trends on environmental issues as a electricity consumption per square meter source of knowledge and enrichment Relative reduction in paper consumption at the rate of 2% per year Leumi Card Training employees on protecting the Updating the e-learning course on environmental environment issues Meeting the requirements of Standard An intra -organizational audit is carried out ISO 14001 in the audit check by the annually by the Israel Standards Institute for Follow up and control of activities of printing Israel Standards Institute meeting the requirements of the Standard Reduction of paper consumption by 10% by centers, identifying exceptions, and examining means of transition to printing centers working procedures in accordance with usage Performing environmental training, The e-learning course on environmental with at least 80% of the company’s protection issues was updated, more than 80% Continuation of control and monitoring of employees participating of the employees did the refresher course Continuation of control and monitoring of usage the 2,000 km procedure for reducing fuel of Company vehicles in leisure time Holding an Awareness Week for consumption in leisure time The target was defined as a bi-annual target, reduction of environmental impacts of Carrying out the Israel Standards Institute completion planned for 2015 Passing the annual check of the Israel Standards employees at work and at home audit for approval of continued holding of the Institute There was a 19% rise in usage in leisure Standard Continuation of control and monitoring time compared with the previous year, and of the 2,000 km procedure for reducing an increase of two vehicles in the number of fuel consumption in leisure time deviant vehicles Leumi Card In 2014, the transition to printing centers was assimilated gradually throughout Reduction of paper consumption by the organization. After implementing the 10% by means of transition to printing transition to printing centers, the amount of centers paper consumption is examined in the new system. The target is bi-annual for 20142015 Holding a collection campaign for Two campaigns were carried out for medications from home on holidays for collecting medications that employees eco-safe disposal in the framework of brought from home before Passover and cooperation with the ”Friends for Health Rosh Hashanah Construction of designated content The target was defined as a bi-annual target, world in the organizational portal for completion planned for 2015 environmental activities Completed Partially Completed Not Completed 140 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 7 Corporate Responsibility Report 142 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 143 BOARD OF DIRECTORS As a complex financial organization, the Leumi Group requires strong corporate governance and management mechanisms that allow for coordination, control, and optimal risk management. The Group has high standards for managing corporate governance beyond the requirements of the law, deriving from the perception that this field is material for its business success. Leumi is a limited company under the obligations of the President and Chief and are also independent, as defined Companies Law, 1999, a reporting Executive Officer and the system of in the Companies Law, 3 of whom company under the Securities Law, reports sent by her to the Board of are external directors under the 1968, and a banking corporation. Directors. The President and Chief Companies Law. All directors, including As such it operates according to the Executive Officer is responsible to external directors, are subject to law, which includes a list of laws and guide and coordinate the activities the provisions of the law, including regulations, including the Companies of the members of Management. the Companies Law and Directive Law, the Securities Law, Banking In addition, the Board of Directors 301, the Banking Law (Licensing), Laws, Directives of the Supervisor outlines an organizational culture, 1981 and the Banking Ordinance, of Banks, including Proper Conduct which requires the implementation 1941, including in the matter of of Banking Business Directive 301 of high standards of professional appointments, their qualifications, Board of Directors (hereinafter: conduct and integrity, and approves requirements regarding absence of Directive 301 ) and the Articles of the Bank’s Code of Ethics. The interest, the majority required for Association of Leumi published on Board of Directors ensures that their election, their term of office, and the website of the Israel Securities Leumi acts in compliance with the more. A candidate for the Board of Authority, Magna System (www. law and regulations. The member Directors is required to comply with magna.isa.gov.il). These rules and of Management responsible for an examination of his/her suitability, procedures govern the corporate corporate social responsibility is and his/her appointment is subject to governance aspects of Leumi’s the Head of the Human Resources approval or absence of objection by activity, including risk management, Division. the Bank of Israel. capital management and the The Board of Directors has approved granting of credit, fairness in the Bank’s Code of Ethics and the customer service, proper disclosure Bank’s Vision. of information, conduct of the Board of Directors and more. (It shall be clarified that the Board of Directors Appointment and Composition of mentioned in this chapter refers to Board Committees Leumi's Board of Directors, and not its subsidiaries and foreign offices, The Bank is defined as a banking unless stated otherwise). corporation without a controlling The Resources core, and no shareholder is defined Committee of the as controlling shareholder in the Board of Directors Leumi Board of Directors Bank. Upon becoming a bank without a controlling core, only a also functions as Leumi’s business and financial statutory committee, established the Corporate Social strength is under the responsibility of Leumi’s Board of Directors, pursuant under the Banking Law (Legislative Responsibility Committee Amendments), 2012, shareholders to Directive 301. The Board of holding more than 2.5% of the means and is responsible for: Directors outlines the strategy of of control in the Bank, or a group Leumi, including its risk appetite, and • Corporate Social of shareholders, according to the approves the policy that guides its definition of this term in the Banking Responsibility Management ongoing operations. The Board of Law (Licensing), 1981, may propose of the Group Directors oversees the actions of candidates to the General Meeting for the Management and that these are • Approval of the Group's election as directors. consistent with the policy established Corporate Social by the Board of Directors. The Board As of May 2015, 15 directors Responsibility Objectives of Directors verifies the existence of serve on the Board of Directors of clearly defined areas of responsibility Leumi, including 8 that are external • Approval of the Corporate and reporting. The Board of Directors directors as defined in Directive 301 Social Responsibility defines the roles, authorities, and (hereinafter: “external directors”), Report Corporate Responsibility Report 144 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 145 The Board of Directors of Leumi and the subsidiaries operate, inter alia, by means of standing committees and ad hoc committees, in addition to the committees required by law. Information on the committees of the Board of Directors, their composition and functions, can be found on the Leumi website: www.leumi.co.il Activity of the Board of Directors During 2014, the Board of Directors of Leumi continued to carry out its duties including, but not limited to, formulating strategy, approving financial statements, approving of policy in various areas and more. During the year, 45 meetings of the Leumi Board of Directors and 111 meetings of the committees of the Board of Directors took place. Data on the Boards of Directors of Leumi Group: Number of Number Number Directors with of Women Number of Accounting in the Up to of External and Financial Board of age Age Age Company Directors Directors Expertise Directors 30 31-50 51+ Key Committees Strategy, Audit, Risk Management, Leumi 15 8 15 3 0 1 14 Resources, Salaries and Remuneration, Credit, Investments Audit, Administrative Arab and Credit, The composition of the Board does not attend discussions of the The Board of Directors also discusses Israel 11 4 10 2 0 1 10 Remuneration of Directors complies with the Management or its committees, the Bank's donations policy. Bank and Salaries, Risk requirements of Directive 301, apart from discussions regarding Management The Resources Committee of the pursuant to which, among other the overall strategy of the Bank. Board of Directors also functions as matters, the Board of Directors shall Audit, Risk Audit Committee: Seven directors the Corporate Social Responsibility Leumi have adequate collective knowledge 9 3 7 3 0 4 5 Management and currently serve in the Audit Committee and is responsible for: Card about each type of the substantive Remuneration Committee, including three external · Corporate social responsibility activities that the Bank intends to directors under the Companies Law, management of the Group Leumi Audit, Risk carry out, and at least one fifth of one of whom is the Chairperson 5 4 1 0 2 3 · Approval of the Group's corporate Partners Management the directors shall have proven of the Committee. Two committee experience in banking. In addition, social responsibility objectives Trust Conflict of Interest members are external directors, all 6 2 3 3 0 3 3 the majority of the members of the of whom are independent directors. · Approval of the corporate social Company Committee Board of Directors have accounting In addition, all of the committee responsibility report and financial expertise, and the Bank Strategy, Audit, Risk members have accounting and The Head of the Human Resources BLUSA 14 10 14 1 2 12 complies with Section 239 (d) of the Management, Credit financial expertise. Division is responsible for presenting Companies Law, which establishes the annual Corporate Social Strategy, Audit, Risk the right of representation in the Resources Committee of the Board BLUK 10 6 10 2 1 9 of Directors: This Committee also Responsibility report to the members Management, Credit Board of Directors for both sexes. of the Resources committee. The The directors do not report to functions as the Corporate Social Audit, Risk Responsibility Committee. The report reviews the implementation BLROM 5 1 5 5 the President and Chief Executive of the corporate social responsibility Management, Credit Officer. Committee discusses and approves the Corporate Social Responsibility program, the organization's In accordance with Article 96 of performance, the organization's Full details on the members of the Board of Directors can be found in the 2014 Annual Report of Leumi on the Report and the corporate social the Articles of Incorporation, the fulfillment of goals and the objectives website of the Israel Securities Authority, Magna System: www.magna.isa.gov.il responsibility objectives of the Board of Directors elects one of its for the coming years. Bank and the Group for the coming members – who is not the President years. It discusses the planning It shall be emphasized that each and Chief Executive Officer or his/ versus performance report of the of Leumi's subsidiaries has its her relative as Chairman of the corporate social responsibility own board of directors. Corporate Board of Directors. The Chairman objectives of the Bank and the governance in the subsidiaries of the Board of Directors abstains Group, and the management of is conducted in accordance with from participating in the ongoing corporate social responsibility of relevant laws and regulations, and management of the Bank and the Bank and the Group. in the spirit of conduct of Leumi. Corporate Responsibility Report 146 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 147 45 · Once in 3 months, the Board of from the Chief Risk Officer, and remuneration and reimbursement Directors discusses the financial submits its recommendations of expenses in accordance with position of Leumi according to the on these issues to the Board of the law regarding remuneration for quarterly report, which includes, Directors plenum. In addition, an external director. The terms of among other things, a report the Chief Risk Officer reports employment of the Chairman of the Meetings on performance compared with on an immediate basis to the Board of Directors were approved targets, and discusses the Risk Committee, and if required also by the Audit Committee, The During the year, 45 Exposure Document as to the to the Board of Directors, on any Remuneration Committee, the Board meetings of the Leumi various types of risk exposures issue, finding, or deficiency in of Directors, and the Annual General embodied in the operations of areas of her role and powers that Meeting. Board of Directors and Leumi and the Group, including could materially affect the risk 111 meetings of the In February 2014, the General market risk, credit risk and and / or business management of Meeting of Bank Leumi approved committees of the Board operational risk. In addition, each Leumi. The Chief Risk Officer may a compensation policy for officeof Directors took place. new significant product requires decide on other issues that are to holders of the Bank for the years the approval of the Board of be brought for further discussion 2013-2016 (after the approval Directors. and examination by the Risk of the Board of Directors and in · Once in six months, the Board of Management Committee. accordance with the approval Raising Items for the Agenda the Board of Directors. Certain they are not conflicts of interests Directors discusses the report and recommendations of the of the Board of Directors and shareholders may request the of a permanent nature), such as the Evaluation of the Remuneration Committee). The of the President and Chief Board of Directors to include prohibition on releasing background the General Meeting additional issues in the agenda of Executive Officer of Leumi on the Performance of the Board of remuneration policy is based on material and the prohibition on the provisions of Amendment 20 implementation of its decisions. Directors The agenda of the meetings of the General Meeting. By law, the participation in discussions and of the Companies Law regarding the Board of Directors of Leumi is Bank must publish a prior notice of decision-making of the Board of · The Board of Directors has Leumi has a process of selfconditions of service and determined by the Chairman of the the General Meeting whose agenda Directors and its committees. various tools for maintaining assessment of the Board of employment of office-holders of Board of Directors, in coordination includes the election of directors, proper supervision, including, At the time of their appointment Directors through questionnaires the Bank and that stipulated in with the President and Chief and may publish such notice among others, products of and periodically, all directors are relating to various aspects of the Proper Conduct of Banking Business Executive Officer of the Bank, taking regarding other subjects at least the internal audit and control asked to provide details related to management of its work and its Directive No. 301A concerning into account the relevant regulatory 21 days prior to publication of the functions (such as Internal positions held and / or holdings in committees, including responsibility remuneration policy in a banking obligations. Pursuant to the convening of the General Meeting, Audit, Risk Manager, Compliance for Bank and Group strategy, corporation. The remuneration Companies Law, the agenda of the including its expected agenda. The corporations by them and by their Officer), and external functions the delegating of tasks to the policy is designed to reward officeGeneral Meeting of the Shareholders Bank publishes the convening of relatives, which may be considered (such as the external auditors). committees, issues relating to holders of the Bank in accordance is determined by the Board of the General Meeting at the times a conflict of interest. · The Board of Directors has the Management, remuneration with the Bank's performance and Directors. Certain shareholders may stipulated by law. When convening In addition, the Chairman of the defined a list of unusual events policy, and the Code of Ethics. As profitability over time, including request the Board of Directors to the Meeting, the Bank sets out the Board of Directors of Leumi does about which it wants to receive part of this control and internal according to the objectives of the include other matters in the agenda proposed agenda and the majority not serve as a manager in the Bank, a report. In accordance with governance, the Board of Directors Bank and the Group in the long of the General Meeting. required for the various decisions. and the chairpersons of the Boards the work plan determined with reviews findings arising from the term, and according to the actual Social and environmental issues, of Directors of the subsidiaries in the approval of the Board of self-assessment questionnaires. contribution of the office-holders as well as aspects of corporate Prevention of Conflict of Israel do not serve, as a rule, as Directors, the Internal Audit In addition, the Board of Directors in achieving these performance governance, are discussed by Interests managers in those companies. Division, in the framework periodically updates the working goals. Remuneration policy includes, the Board of Directors and its of audits carried out at the procedure of the Board of among other things, a reference Leumi operates in accordance with determined frequency, also Directors, which is also based on to the salary component, related committees as necessary and / the legal regulatory provisions Monitoring Performance and or as required by law. In general, examines implementation of the provisions of the law that apply terms, retirement conditions and the regarding conflict of interests, Risk Management the resolutions of the Board of component for annual bonuses. the President and Chief Executive to it. This procedure stipulates, including the provisions of the The Board of Directors oversees Directors as decided regarding inter alia, the duties of the Board Officer, with the aid of the Head The Remuneration Committee gives Companies Law and Directives 301 the activities of Management and the matters examined and the of Directors and its powers, and of the Human Resources Division, its recommendation to the Board of and 312 of the Supervisor of Banks. monitors these actions by means process for monitoring decisions the committees of the Board of manages interactions regarding Directors on the Bank’s Remuneration In accordance with the provisions of of several mechanisms, including, of the Board of Directors. Directors, the methods of work of employees, subject to the receipt Policy and the remuneration of the Companies Law, a director of the among others: the Board of Directors and of its of appropriate approvals from the · Any material deviation from office-holders and executives of Bank owes a fiduciary duty to the committees, including the reports Board of Directors, if required. The · Once in 6 weeks, the Board of limits approved by the Board of the Bank. The Committee comprises Bank and must act in good faith and presented to them, as well as Audit Committee of the Board of Directors receives a monthly Directors is brought to the Board EDs and external directors pursuant for the best interest of the Bank. matters and transactions that are Directors has approved a procedure report on the Bank's financial of Directors for approval. to the provisions of the Bank of Pursuant to these provisions, no to be brought for approval by the governing mechanisms for reporting position, submitted in writing · The Board of Directors maintains Israel. If necessary, the Remuneration person shall serve as a director of Board of Directors. by employees of unusual activity, by Leumi’s President and Chief supervision and control Committee is assisted, inter alia, by the Bank, if their business or current inter alia, to the Chairman of Executive Officer, and discusses it. mechanisms over corporations outside independent consultants. the Audit Committee, as well as occupations create a permanent Remuneration of Directors conflict of interest between them · Once in 3 months, after receiving controlled in the Leumi Group. Further information on the mechanisms to protect the identity the recommendation of the Audit · The Risk Management Committee and Senior Management remuneration policy of office-holders of those reporting. and the corporation. The Bank's procedures determine mechanisms Committee, the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors receives All directors serving on the Board can be found on pages 257-263 and Shareholders Meeting: The agenda for avoidance of situations of discusses and approves the regular periodic reports on of Directors of Leumi, excluding in Note 15 of the financial statements of the General Meeting is set by conflicts of interests (even when financial statements of the Bank. relevant issues, among others, the Chairman of the Board, receive of Leumi for the year 2014. Corporate Responsibility Report 148 INDEX 149 EXTERNAL ASSURANCE GRI G4 CONTENT INDEX21 This report successfully completed the GRI Materiality Disclosure Service Leumi Group is meticulous in The model of assurance conducted conducting assurance on its for this report (Limited Assurance) General Level of Page corporate responsibility reports is used in about 80% of the Disclosure UNGC published in accordance with GRI assurance reports on corporate Standard Reporting Number directives, and has been doing so responsibility reports around the since 2009. The Group attributes world (according to an international great importance and value to this survey of corporate responsibility GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES process, as one that is instructional, reporting among more than 4000 helpful and continuously improves companies, published by KPMG in Strategy and Analysis data collection and reporting 2013)20. practices, and in response to Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the demands of stakeholders for the organization (such as CEO, chair, or equivalent transparency and reliability of the G4-1 senior position) about the relevance of sustainability Full 4-5 N/R reports. to the organization and the organization’s strategy for External limited assurance of the addressing sustainability. data in the current report was conducted by Somekh Chaikin KPMG. G4-2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities. Full 4-5,39,68 N/R The full independent limited assurance report for the readers Organizational Profile can be found on pg.146 in the Hebrew CSR Report G4-3 Name of the organization and its organizational profile Full 8,14,142 N/R Assurance was conducted in G4-4 Description of the primary brands/services. Full 9 N/R accordance with ISAE 3000 (International Standard on Engagement Assurance) for G4-5 Location of organization’s headquarters. Full 8 N/R conducting engagement assurance other than audits or reviews of Number of countries where the organization operates, historic financial information, which and names of countries with either major operations or G4-6 Full 12 N/R was developed by the International that are specifically relevant to the sustainability issues Auditing and Assurance Standards covered in the report. Board (IAASB) of the International Federation of Accountants G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form. Full 8 N/R (IFAC). ISAE 3000 emphasizes the comprehensive processes G4-8 Markets served. Full 12 N/R for collecting support data and the independence in conducting assurance. The standard outlines G4-9 Scale of the reporting organization. Full 12 N/R the stages to be performed and the required conditions of the entity Total workforce by type of employment, type of contract G4-10 Full 72-75 6 conducting assurance, which is and geographical area, by gender. permitted to conduct assurance pertaining to conduct, processes or Percentage of employees covered by collective G4-11 Full 81 3 relevant data in the report. bargaining agreements. G4-12 Description of the organization’s supply chain. Full 118-119 N/R Significant changes during the reporting period in the G4-13 organization, including size, structure, ownership and Full 11 N/R supply chain. 20. https://home.kpmg.com/xx/en/home/insights/2013/12/kpmg-survey-corporate-responsibility-reporting-2013.html 21. As of 5 August 2015 it is no longer required to fill out the column on external assurance in the Content Index to be ‘in accordance’ with the G4 Guidelines. The external assurance report appears on page 148. Corporate Responsibility Report 150 INDEX 151 General ‎Level of Page General ‎Level of Page Disclosure UNGC Disclosure UNGC Standard Reporting‎ Number Standard Reporting‎ Number E ‎ xplanation regarding the implementation of the Report Profile G4-14 Full 69 7 precautionary approach or principle.‎ G4-28 ‎Reporting period‎ Full 14 E ‎ xternally developed economic, environmental and social G4-15 charters, principles or other initiatives to which the Full 23 1-10 G4-29 ‎Date of most recent report ‎ Full 14 organization subscribes or which it endorses. G4-30 ‎Reporting cycle (annual or biennial).‎ Full 14 M ‎ embership in associations/organizations and/or G4-16 Full 23 1-10 national or international advocacy organizations.‎ C ‎ ontact point for questions regarding the report or its G4-31 Full 15 N/R contents.‎ Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries Report the ‘in accordance’ option the organization has L‎ ist all entities included in the consolidated financial G4-32 chosen Report the GRI Content Index for the chosen Full 20 G4-17 Full 8,12-13 statements option Explain the process for defining the report content and O ‎ rganization’s policy and current practice with regard to G4-18 Full 14,16,20-21 N/R G4-33 Full 14,15 the Aspect Boundaries external assurance of the report. All the material Aspects identified in the process for Governance G4-19 Full 21 defining report content. Governance structure of the organization, including F‎ or each material Aspect, report the Aspect Boundary committees under the highest governance body G4-20 Full 21 G4-34 Full 142-147 within the organization responsible for specific tasks, such as setting strategy or organizational oversight F‎ or each material Aspect, report the Aspect Boundary G4-21 Full 21 outside the organization ‎ eport the process for delegating authority for R N/R economic, environmental and social topics from the G4-35 Full 142-146 Effect of any restatements of information provided in highest governance body to senior executives and other G4-22 Full 14 previous reports, and the reasons for such restatements employees. S ‎ ignificant changes from previous reporting periods in the Report whether the organization has appointed an G4-23 Full 14 Scope and Aspect Boundaries. executive level position or positions with responsibility for G4-36 economic, environmental and social topics, and whether Full 22,142-145 Stakeholder Engagement post holders report directly to the highest governance body. N/R G4-24 ‎List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization Full 24 Report processes for consultation between stakeholders B ‎ asis for identification and selection of stakeholders with G4-37 and the highest governance body on economic, Full 142-144 G4-25 Full 24 environmental and social topics whom to engage ‎ A ‎ pproaches to stakeholder engagement, including Report the composition of the highest governance body G4-38 Full 142 G4-26 frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder Full 24 N/R and its committees group Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance G4-39 Full 146 K ‎ ey topics and concerns that have been raised through body is also an executive officer stakeholder engagement, and how the organization has G4-27 Full 24 Process for determining the composition, qualifications, responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting and expertise of the members of the highest governance G4-40 Full 144 body and its committees, including any consideration of gender and other indicators of diversity. Corporate Responsibility Report 152 INDEX 153 General ‎Level of Page General ‎Level of Page Disclosure UNGC Disclosure UNGC Standard Reporting‎ Number Standard Reporting‎ Number Processes in place for the highest governance body to Report the process for determining remuneration. G4-41 Full 146-147 ensure conflicts of interest are avoided Report whether remuneration consultants are involved in determining remuneration and whether they are G4-52 Full 147 Report the highest governance body’s and senior independent of management. Report any other executives’ roles in the development, approval, and relationships which the remuneration consultants have G4-42 updating of the organization’s purpose, value or mission Full 142 with the organization statements, strategies, policies, and goals related to economic, environmental and social impacts. Report how stakeholders’ views are sought and taken into account regarding remuneration, including the results G4-53 Full 147 Report the measures taken to develop and enhance of votes on remuneration policies and proposals, if G4-43 the highest governance body’s collective knowledge of Full 22 applicable economic, environmental and social topics. N/R Report the ratio of the annual total compensation for the Processes for evaluating the highest governance body’s organization’s highest-paid individual in each country G4-44 own performance, particularly with respect to economic, Full 147 G4-54 of significant operations to the median annual total Full 78 environmental, and social performance. compensation for all employees (excluding the highestpaid individual) in the same country Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organization’s identification and ‎ eport the ratio of percentage increase in annual total R management of economic, environmental, and social compensation for the organizations highest-paid G4-45 Full 146-147 individual in each country of significant operations to the performance, including relevant risks and opportunities, G4-55 Full 78 and adherence or compliance with internationally agreed median percentage increase in annual total compensation standards, codes of conduct, and principles. for all employees (excluding the highest-paid individual) in the same country N/R Report the highest governance body’s role in reviewing G4-46 the effectiveness of the organization’s risk management Full 146 Ethics and Integrity processes for economic, environmental and social topics. Describe the organization’s values, principles, standards Report the frequency of the highest governance body’s G4-56 and norms of behavior such as codes of conduct and Full 6,34 10 G4-47 review of economic, environmental and social impacts, Full 22,147 codes of ethics. risks, and opportunities. Report the internal and external mechanisms for seeking Report the highest committee or position that formally advice on ethical and lawful behavior, and matters related G4-57 Full 34 10 G4-48 reviews and approves the organization’s sustainability Full 144 to organizational integrity, such as helplines or advice report and ensures that all material Aspects are covered. lines Report the process for communicating critical concerns to Report the internal and external mechanisms for reporting G4-49 Full 142-146 concerns about unethical or unlawful behavior, and the highest governance body G4-58 matters related to organizational integrity, such as Full 41 10 escalation through line management, whistleblowing Report the nature and total number of critical concerns mechanisms or hotlines. G4-50 that were communicated to the highest governance body Full 146 and the mechanism(s) used to address and resolve them. SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES Linkage between compensation for members of the highest governance body, senior managers, and Economic Performance G4-51 executives (including departure arrangements), and Full 147 the organization’s performance (including social and G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Full 28-30 N/R environmental performance). G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed Full 28 N/R Corporate Responsibility Report 154 INDEX 155 General ‎Level of Page General ‎Level of Page Disclosure UNGC Disclosure UNGC Standard Reporting‎ Number Standard Reporting‎ Number Financial implications and other risks and opportunities The Group does G4-EC2 Full 135 7 for the organization’s activities due to climate change. not measure the energy G4-EN4 Energy consumption outside of the organization N/R 8 Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan consumption G4-EC3 Full 28-30 N/R outside of the obligations. organization G4-EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government. Full 30 N/R G4-EN5 Energy intensity Full 133 8 Market Presence G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption Full 130 8,9 G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Full 76 N/R Reductions in energy requirements of products and G4-EN7 Full 68 8,9 services Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared G4-EC5 to local minimum wage at significant locations of Full 78 6 operation Emissions The majority G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Full 126 7,8,9 of the Group’s operations G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 1) Full 134-135 7,8 Proportion of senior management hired from the local are in Israel, G4-EC6 N/R 6 community at significant locations of operation therefore there Energy indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions is no reference G4-EN16 Full 134-135 7,8 (Scope 2) to local employment The Group does not measure Indirect Economic Impact their scope 3 emissions. The G4-EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 3) N/R 7,8 G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Full 28 N/R Group will take steps to obtain Development and impact of infrastructure investments the data in the G4-EC7 and services provided primarily for public benefit through Full 30 N/R future. commercial, in-kind, or pro bono engagement. G4-EN18 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity Full 134 8 Understanding and describing significant indirect G4-EC8 Full 28-30 N/R economic impacts, including the extent of impacts. G4-EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions Full 135 8,9 Procurement Practices The Group does not G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Full 118 N/R measure the ODS emissions G4-EN20 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) Full 7,8 from their Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locallyG4-EC9 Full 121-122 N/R operations based suppliers at significant locations of operation. as they are immaterial. Energy G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Full 126 7,8,9 G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organization Full 129-131 7,8 Corporate Responsibility Report 156 INDEX 157 General ‎Level of Page General ‎Level of Page Disclosure UNGC Disclosure UNGC Standard Reporting‎ Number Standard Reporting‎ Number The Group does Workers with high incidence or high risk of diseases G4-LA7 Full 94-95 N/R not measure related to their occupation significant air emission Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements G4-EN21 NOX, SOX, and other significant air emissions Full 7,8 G4-LA8 Full 94-95 N/R from their with trade unions operations as they are Training and Education immaterial. G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Full 86 6 Products & Services Average hours of training per year per employee by G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Full 63,68 7,8,9 G4-LA9 Full 88 6 gender, and by employee category Extent of impact mitigation of environmental impacts of G4-EN27 Full 68 7,8,9 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that products and services G4-LA10 support the continued employability of employees and Full 88 N/R assist them in managing career endings The majority of the Group’s Percentage of employees receiving regular performance activity evolves G4-LA11 and career development reviews, by gender and by Full 90-91 6 around Percentage of products sold and their packaging employee category G4-EN28 N/R marketing and 8 materials that are reclaimed by category service that do not include Diversity and Equal Opportunity packaging materials G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Full 76 6 Supplier Environmental Assessment Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee category according to gender, G4-LA12 Full 75,145 6 G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Full 121 8 age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using G4-EN32 Full 118-119 8 Equal Remuneration for Women and Men environmental criteria Significant actual and potential negative environmental G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Full 76,78 6 G4-EN33 Full 121-122 8 impacts in the supply chain and actions taken Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to Occupational Health & Safety G4-LA13 men by employee category, by significant locations of Full 78 6 operation G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Full 94,97 N/R ‎Supplier Assessment for Labor Practices Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management-worker health and safety committees G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Full 121 N/R G4-LA5 Full 94-95 N/R that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using G4-LA14 Full 118-119 N/R labor practices criteria Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, G4-LA6 lost days, and absenteeism, and total number of workFull 94-97 N/R Significant actual and potential negative impacts for labor G4-LA15 Full 83,121-122 N/R related fatalities, by region and by gender practices in the supply chain and actions taken Corporate Responsibility Report 158 INDEX 159 General ‎Level of Page General ‎Level of Page Disclosure UNGC Disclosure UNGC Standard Reporting‎ Number Standard Reporting‎ Number Non-Discrimination Supplier assessment for impacts on the society G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Full 76 6 G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Full 121 N/R Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective G4-HR3 Full 46,52-53 6 actions taken Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using G4-SO9 Full 121-122 N/R criteria for impacts on society Supplier Human Rights Assessment Significant actual and potential negative impacts on G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Full 121 2 G4-SO10 Full 121-122 N/R society in the supply chain and actions taken Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using Grievance Mechanism for Impacts on Society G4-HR10 Full 118-119 2 human rights criteria G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Full 102 N/R Significant actual and potential negative human rights G4-HR11 Full 83,121-122 2 impacts in the supply chain and actions taken Number of grievances about impacts on society filed, G4-SO11 addressed, and resolved through formal grievance Full 52 N/R Local Communities mechanisms G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Full 102,110 1 Products and Services Labeling Percentage of operations with implemented local G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Full 55-56 N/R G4-SO1 community engagement, impact assessments, and Full 102-115 1 development programs Type of product and service information required by the organization’s procedures for product and service Operations with significant actual and potential negative G4-PR3 information and labeling, and percentage of significant Full 46 N/R G4-SO2 Full 107-115 1 impacts on local communities product and service categories subject to such information requirements Access points in low-populated or economically G4-FS13 Full 62-63,66 N/R disadvantaged areas by type Total number of incidents of non-compliance with G4-PR4 regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and Full 43,52 N/R Initiatives to improve access to financial services for service information and labeling, by type of outcomes G4-FS14 Full 57-58 N/R disadvantaged people G4-PR5 Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction Full 51 N/R AntiCorruption Marketing Communications G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Full 40-41 10 G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Full 46-47 N/R Total number and percentage of operations assessed G4-SO3 for risks related to corruption and the significant risks Full 41 10 G4-PR6 Sale of banned or disputed products Full 46 N/R identified Total number of incidents of non-compliance with Communication and training on anti-corruption policies regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing G4-SO4 Full 42 10 G4-PR7 Full 52 N/R and procedures communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship, by type of outcomes G4-SO5 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken Full 40-41 10 Corporate Responsibility Report 160 INDEX 161 General Disclosure Level of Page UNGC UN GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLES Standard Reporting Number Leumi expresses support for the 10 Principles of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) initiative and works to promote these principles. The UNGC principles are detailed below: Compliance Human Rights G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Full 39,46-47 N/R · Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance · Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. G4-PR9 with laws and regulations concerning the provision and Full 43 N/R use of products and services Labor Product Portfolio · Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Full 63,68 8 · The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; Percentage of the portfolio for business lines by specific · The effective abolition of child labor; and G4-FS6 Full 30 N/R region, size (e.g. Micro/SME/large) and by sector · The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Monetary Value Of Products And Services Designed To G4-FS7 Deliver A Specific Social Benefit For Each Business Line Full 66 N/R Environment Broken Down By Purpose · Businesses should support a precautionary Monetary Value Of Products And Services Designed To approach to environmental challenges; G4-FS8 Deliver A Specific Environmental Benefit For Each Business Full 68 8 Line Broken Down By Purpose · Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Audit · Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. 22,38G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Full 8 39,63,68 Anti-Corruption · Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 162
