COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2014: IMPACT INTERNATIONAL IMPACT INTERNATIONAL COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2014 www.impactinternational.com www.impactinternational.com COMMUNICATION COMMUNICATION ON ONPROGRESS PROGRESS2011: 2014:IMPACT INTERNATIONAL IMPACT INTERNATIONAL The UN Global Compact is a strategic policy initiative for businesses Thethat UN Global Compact isto are committed a strategic aligning policy initiative for and their operations businesses strategies are committed thatuniversally with ten to aligning accepted their operations principles and in the areas strategies of human with ten rights, universally labour, acceptedand environment principles in the areas anti-corruption. of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. www.impactinternational.com 1 www.impactinternational.com 1 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2014: IMPACT INTERNATIONAL Human Rights Environment Principle 1 Principle 7 Businesses should support and respect the protection of Businesses should support a precautionary approach to internationally proclaimed human rights; and environmental challenges; Principle 2 Principle 8 make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9 Labour Standards encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4 Anti-corruption the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 10 Principle 5 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, the effective abolition of child labour; and including extortion and bribery. Principle 6 the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. www.impactinternational.com 2 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2014: IMPACT INTERNATIONAL WHY WE EXIST “INSPIRE & DEVELOP” At Impact, we help people work together to make a better world: a world in which people and organisations can achieve their potential, grow sustainably, and be happy doing it. We believe in the power of experiential learning and we use it to release human potential for leadership, change and innovation. The best XLB on the planet • A great place to work • A model of sustainable enterprise www.impactinternational.com 3 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2014: IMPACT INTERNATIONAL IMPACT: WHO WE ARE AND WHAT WE DO Impact was established in 1980 with a simple aim: to bring inspiration to people development. Today, we are global leaders in leadership and talent development, creating cutting-edge solutions that engage, challenge and inspire. We work in over 50 countries from offices in the UK, Europe, USA and Asia Pacific. Our growth is fuelled by long-term partnerships with a growing list of clients including, Sony, Thomson Reuters, Swiss Re, PepsiCo, Lend Lease, BP, Toyota and UBS. We partner with our clients to co-create bespoke learning solutions that link learning and development with real business issues to deliver sustainable improvements in personal and business performance. We are a proud member of the United Nations Global Compact and have won a number of awards for being a Great Place To Work®, as voted for by our employees. We are committed to becoming a model of sustainable enterprise, exploring new ways to do business and strengthening the bottom line. It is our belief, borne from real experience, that all commercial organisations can embrace this concept of ‘doing well by doing good’. www.impactinternational.com 4 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2014: IMPACT INTERNATIONAL INTRODUCTION FROM DAVID WILLIAMS Founder and CEO, Impact International Impact International signed up to the UN Global Compact in June 2005. As signatories to the UN Global Compact we are committed to demonstrating the progress we are making in each of the ten principles. Key to the progression of these principles is the commitment and support from our people. In a recent survey (source: Great Places To Work® Survey 2014) 99% of our employees said that ‘Management is honest and ethical in its business practice’. 98% said that ’Impact manages its impact upon society responsibly’ and 93% said that ’Impact is a great place to work’ In 2014 we operated in over 40 countries around the world. The global performance has been led by strong commercial success in America where, as planned, profits have contributed to our overall performance. Asia Pacific has continued to develop, strengthening our ability to deliver to global clients across the world. We have continued to learn as a business. We maintain a strong commitment to innovation and to the development of our methods and expertise in partnership with global companies. Two important areas of innovation include the design and delivery of ‘Flourish’, a global initiative created to address the gender balance in leadership decision making by creating cultures that are empowering for everyone and our work in partnership with ’Squared’ a Google led initiative that is helping to bridge the skills gap in digital marketing around the world. www.impactinternational.com 5 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2014: IMPACT INTERNATIONAL INTRODUCTION FROM DAVID WILLIAMS cont. . . As a responsible business we have remained committed to supporting charities through Impact Aid raising more than £4000 for our chosen charity. More than 75% of employees have given 3 days of their work time and their expertise to a range of local and international projects. We also delivered our 20th kids holiday which provided a fun filled break for 25 children in the local area. Three developments in 2015 that will continue to help us towards our goals are: ✔ Our partnership with the The Institute for Leadership and Sustainability (IFLAS). We are looking forward to delivering short courses with the Institute to help people and organisations transition into a more fair and sustainable future. ✔ The development of our solutions that link powerful learning with technology, in particular our partnership with ‘Squared’ a Google led initiative. ✔ New appointments and movements in the business to bring energy, focus and change in order to achieve our 2020 ambitions. In this year’s report we outline progress made in the UK and some of our overseas offices. As in previous years, our report demonstrates success and failure against our 2014 targets. Our Report is in the public domain and can be viewed on the UNGC website or via a link on our website: www.impactinternational.com www.impactinternational.com 6 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2014: IMPACT INTERNATIONAL Principle 1 Principle 2 Businesses should support and respect the protection of make sure that they are not complicit in human rights internationally proclaimed human rights; and abuse CONTEXT: Impact International is committed to supporting the implementation of all aspects of human rights. As a service organisation, we can support these principles in two tangible and measurable ways. The former is around how we engage and educate our people in this area and the latter is about providing innovative approaches to engage and influence across our clients and supply chain. As an international organisation we recognise that there are differences in accepted practices with regard to standards in safe working environments, child protection and other aspects of human rights, however we seek to develop consistent best practice across all regions and work to the highest standards rather than only adhering to local legal minimums. 2014 TARGET: Set up a networking event with our local community partners in the Lake District to help build and share knowledge between Impact and our partners. PROGRESS: We met with all our community partners in the local area, this included primary and secondary schools, charities and community based organistions on an individual basis rather than arranging one networking event, this provided an ideal opportunity for us to review, reflect and plan for future engagements. www.impactinternational.com 7 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2014: IMPACT INTERNATIONAL 2014 TARGET: Deliver a Community Action Learning networking event for our corporate clients in London to help our clients better understand how they can create shared value partnerships with community organisations. PROGRESS: In November we brought more than 50 clients together in London. We delivered workshops on ‘how to work effectively with community partners’, and ‘how to create a shared value approach to corporate/community engagement’ as well as opportunities to engage in practical projects with community partners including London Urban Arts, Shakespeare Schools Festival and Centric Learning Tree. 2014 TARGET: Provide a community partner networking event in London for our partners to help build and share knowledge between Impact and our partners. PROGRESS: During 2014 we set up three informal meetings with our network of partners in London. Informal meetings provide us with an opportunity to connect our partners with other partners in the area, with the aim of trying to help them to work more collaboratively. www.impactinternational.com 8 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2014: IMPACT INTERNATIONAL 2014 TARGET: Identify opportunities to share our commitment to UNGC and other social initiatives to our clients and other SMEs (specifically presentations at Business in the Community (BITC) Events) PROGRESS: Presentations were made at Manchester University ( BITC event). Where we communicated our commitment to responsible business practice, our reporting framework and how we use the principles of the UNGC to engage others. INTERNAL: All Impact employees are expected to complete a minimum of three days working in the local community on a project of their choice. We call this ‘Learning in the Community’ (LiTC). This is paid work and is aligned to individuals personal development plans Our target was to uphold 70% engagement. In 2014 in the UK a total of 214.5 LiTC days were achieved out of a potential 270 days79% In 2013 in the UK a total of 149.5 LiTC days were achieved out of a potential 210 days – 71% In 2012 in the UK a total of 165.5 LiTC days were achieved out of a potential 243 days 68% In 2011 73% of UK staff contributed GPTW survey said that 96% of UK employees ‘feel good about the way we contribute to our communities’. Whilst we don’t have a particular focus area, the majority of our support falls into the education and environment categories. Some educational examples include; • Careers Day support – 2 people • Mock Interviews – 6 people • Judge for a debating competition – 2 days 1 person • Work Inspiration weeks – 14 people over 15 days • Kids holiday – 12 people fulltime – 7 days www.impactinternational.com 9 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2014: IMPACT INTERNATIONAL Our biggest LiTC staff commitment is the annual Children’s Holiday, a 5-day residential holiday for locally disadvantaged children. We've been running the kids holiday since 1994 so this year was our 20th holiday. Process: All the children are nominated via social services as they are deemed to be disadvantaged for a variety reasons – poverty, broken homes, abuse (physical and mental), alcohol/drug abuse in the home, in foster care or under a guardianship order (which means the courts have ruled that one or both parents are deemed unfit to look after them). Each year we typically take 20-24 children aged between 8-12yrs, so over the 20 years we've had 400-480 kids. Social workers nominate the children and give a brief outline of why the children are in social services and why they think they should attend the holiday. Prior to the holiday we arrange a visit to the child/children in their home to talk through the week and see if they have any concerns or want to ask us questions. Impact provides all the resources for the week, accommodation, food, bedding, activities and staff time. Staff volunteer for the week and it usually has a core team of 10 with other staff dipping in to help run activities. The bulk of the money for the holiday comes through fundraising by staff and holding a charity dinner each year. We budget between £3,000 £3,500 to run the holiday however this doesn't include staff time. Cost to the business for staff time this year was £9,464. Activities include zoo, cinema, swimming, lake activities, lazer quest, climbing wall, beach, tree top nets. . www.impactinternational.com 10 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2014: IMPACT INTERNATIONAL EXTERNAL: We worked with more than 70 not-for-profit organisations through our ‘Community Action Learning’ (CAL) programmes in the UK. CAL aims to develop leadership capability for participants whilst providing real value to our partners. Our principles of practice: Integrity: we will never exploit or compromise a programme partner. Partnership: we create programmes in which every voice is heard, every interest represented and every heart engaged. Sustainability: we strive to generate economic, social, cultural and environmental capital in all our activities and to identify and progressively reduce any detrimental impact of our activities. Humanity: through our work, we strive to enrich and inspire and to be receptive to the richness and inspiration of our clients and partners. Learning: learning is what we sell but it must be the product of everything we are and do, our own learning and our joint learning with our clients and partners. Our community partners range from schools, social enterprises, charities and NGO’s. They focus their energy on providing better Education, Human Rights of children and women, support for homelessness and rehabilitation of people struggling with substance misuse. These partners include Citizens UK, Oasis, London Urban Arts, Centric Learning Tree and many more. Globally we designed more than 60 powerful developmental programmes for more than 800 corporate participants through our ‘Community Action Learning’ programmes. These programmes are designed to meet the needs of our partners and our clients. They have included the creation of social media strategies, data management systems, enterprise skills workshops, numeracy and literacy skills programmes. When we work outside of the UK more Health and Safety responsibilities and additional risk assessments need to be carried out as we are often working in fragile environments. We always carry out site visits to ensure we have assessed these risks for our partners, our clients and our employees and we have a process in place to review and document any learning points. These updates are shared every two months to the global business via our Health and Safety website. Some of which is in the public domain http://www.impactinternational.com/safety/ We believe that CAL can provide a powerful platform to exchange ideas, challenge assumptions and create shared value approach. Building open, honest and mutually beneficial relationships with our partners is absolutely key to the success of any engagement. We have a team of 3 people who manage the relationships we have with partners and to develop future projects www.impactinternational.com 11 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2014: IMPACT INTERNATIONAL 2014 TARGET: Continue to engage our corporate clients in Community Action Learning (CAL) Programmes outside of the UK. We will report on CAL in Europe and beyond PROGRESS: Turkey: We delivered community based work in Istanbul providing consultancy for Turkey’s largest volunteer led emergency organisation and with a school that supports children with learning disabilities. The Netherlands: Engaging graduates from a gas and oil sector organisation with a group of young people from a community center based in The Hague. Sharing stories, delivering work based activities and talking about future aspirations. Australia: A new wave of long term CAL work started on the Tasman Peninsular in Tasmania in the small town of Nubeena. A programme designed by Impact for Lend Lease. Community projects involve stakeholder dialogue with local community groups and action across 5 different projects. This programme involved 100 employees from Lend Lease on a CAL team personal development programme, working with the same community partner over a 6 month period. Our relationship with this new community is in its first of a three year commitment. India: Providing 5 charities and social enterprises (who focus on the Human Rights issues of women and children) with 30 high potential global leaders from Thomson Reuters. The participants travel to India and work inside the offices of the community organisations (often in slum areas around Mumbai) for 5 days and a further 6 weeks (remotely) to tackle organisational challenges faced by the partner. www.impactinternational.com 12 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2014: IMPACT INTERNATIONAL OTHER PROGRESS BEYOND TARGETS Global LiTC: We supported the Laureus Sport for Good Foundation Summit in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia in November 2014. This event brings 130 charities together to share ideas and best practice around the areas of sport and education. Impact provided two facilitators who delivered workshops on Leadership and Resilience. In the UK we designed and delivered a networking, fun day for the families from Teenage Cancer Trust. This event was designed as a result of our regular meetings with the organisation and serves as a good example of how we flex our support for our partners depending on what they need rather than on what we will offer them. Work Inspiration UK: We worked with local schools and provided 3 separate weeks of Work Inspiration for 19 children aged 15. They gain valuable hands on work experience where they are tasked with a series of different projects across the business. The students get to meet and ask questions to senior staff members including the CEO and Head of UK. The students work on real projects alongside staff members across the Impact business (Marketing, Business Development and CAL). We deliver three of these events in the past year and have two more scheduled for 2015. Impact Aid, our charity: Raised over £4000 for South Lakes Carers. We have also supported them in many other ways, including providing senior team facilitation, photographing and attending their charity dinner, running a fun day for the young carers and helping with a pizza-making workshop. Continuing projects include engaging young carers in a Learnopoly project and creating a photographic exhibition called Who Cares? . www.impactinternational.com 13 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2014: IMPACT INTERNATIONAL TARGETS FOR 2015 Our central purpose through 2015 in respect of our commitment to the UN Global Charter will be to influence our clients and our supply chain with regards to their practices. To this end our specific targets in the realm of Human Rights are: è To deliver a local networking event for all of our local partners è Deliver a Community Action Learning networking event for our corporate clients in London to help our clients better understand how they can create shared value partnerships with community organisations è Continue to engage our corporate clients in Community Action Learning programmes outside of the UK. We will report on CAL in Europe and beyond è To report on CAL activity globally, with a deeper dive into the work we have delivered in India è To share our results from the Great Places to Work® Survey paying particular focus on the areas where improvement is needed. www.impactinternational.com 14 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2014: IMPACT INTERNATIONAL Principle 3 Principle 4 Business should uphold the freedom of association and the the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 5 Principle 6 the effective abolition of child labour; and the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. CONTEXT: Impact International recognise that our key asset is our people. Consequently Impact is committed to adhering to, and going beyond, all legal requirements to provide fair, flexible and appropriately remunerated employment to all our directly employed and freelance contract staff. Key labour related issues for Impact involve providing a safe and healthy work environment, flexible working structures (both in terms of available contracts for staff and day to day working practices) and providing transparent remuneration and appropriate benefits for contract staff. Impact employ a large number of ‘contract’ or ‘freelance’ staff across our global offices. Because of their freelance status such staff often have the least access to representation and forms of collective bargaining. Relevant feedback from the Great Place to Work® survey in terms of Labour standards include: • 95% said that ‘People are treated fairly regardless of their age, race, sexual orientation, race or ethnic group’ • 99% said ‘this is a physically safe place to work’ • 93% said ’There is a “family” or “team” feeling here’ . www.impactinternational.com 15 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2014: IMPACT INTERNATIONAL 2014 TARGET : Develop an online health and safety training resource to ensure all staff globally are inducted to and working to best practice standards ( Phase one). PROGRESS: Phase one has been completed. Thisincludes general health and safety subjects, including manual handling, chemicals, duty of care. http://www.impactinternational.com/safety/index.php?option=com_content&task=view&id=1335&Itemid=852 2014 TARGET: Deliver a series of Academy 'hot house' days to ensure all associates are working to best practice and aligned with Impact's strategic focus. PROGRESS: Through 2014 Impact UK have run a series of events to support our associates. These have been in the following format: ✔ Hot House days offering updates on strategic elements of the business and our practice ✔ Webinars – a series of webinars updating our associates on business (Town Hall), how to operate in a Programme Director role and the role of the facilitator ✔ Online Safety Training – we have developed a new three phase online safety training tool to enable our associates to be fully up to speed with how to operate in a safe way, whether they be in the office environment or leading a group in an outdoor arena. ✔ Leadership Development event – associates were invited along to join us to debate and develop our leadership proposition 2014 TARGET: Run an engagement survey of all UK Associate staff. PROGRESS: Whilst we are in regular contact with our associate staff we have not run an engagement survey, however, we will include it in next years targets. 2014 TARGET: Develop mobile phone friendly emergency response card that can be kept on phones PROGRESS: Whilst we are still aiming to complete this, our focus has been on the proactive task of competing phase one of the online health and safety training resource. www.impactinternational.com 16 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2014: IMPACT INTERNATIONAL 2014 TARGET: Continue to encourage other countries to adopt a consistent approach to safety. Whilst all countries carry out a high level of safety, very little information is provided to ensure that actions and procedures are consistent and in line with our global safety standards. PROGRESS: Still continuing to encourage and support countries in terms of safety. There is now a quarterly safety update provided by each country. This update is assessed by our Global Head of Safety who records, monitors and manages all safety activity. EXTERNAL SAFETY AUDITS: Due to the type of activities we deliver, it is no longer relevant for us to take part in Achilles or BCU safety audits. In 2014, AdventureMark did inspect us. They are a non-statutory outdoor scheme that coves all the activities and client groups that the AALS statutory scheme misses. We passed with a grade 1 in all areas and comments were: At all times during my visit I was impressed by the levels of attention given to developing systems to support safety and delivery across all the UK sites utilised by Impact. There were however, some areas for development and these have now been addressed. A busy year upgrading many UK safety systems saw the beginnings of a new online safety training system for staff and safety as a key component of the first Associate Academy week run at Impact. We have kept up to date with UK safety legislation changes this year. RIDDOR 2013 came into force on 1 October and this has been reflected in our policy and training. www.impactinternational.com 17 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2014: IMPACT INTERNATIONAL Total accidents: • Our total accidents went up 1 from 7 to 8. • The number of accidents to participants is up from 6 to 7 from last year. • Accidents to Impact staff this year was 1 which is the same for 2013. All the injuries this year were minor, with a few lower limb sprains just requiring ice and elevation. A dislocated shoulder was as a result of a slip on a path and was a pre-existing injury. Fingers getting trapped in a minibus door made an appearance after many years. 2014 TARGET: Develop a robust and practical food safety system that can be used on programmes in mountain huts. PROGRESS: We have created a new policy and procedures . The new policy can be seen at: http://www.impactinternational.com/safety/index.php? option=com_content&task=view&id=1128&Itemid=847 www.impactinternational.com 18 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2014: IMPACT INTERNATIONAL PROGRESS BEYOND TARGETS: We have completed numerous staff safety training events this year including: ✔ Personal Protective Equipment inspection course for our stores manager. ✔ Canoeing, Tree Abseil, Safety Boat and Night Ridge Scramble training for support staff with pass outs for certain members for scrambling at night ✔ National Water Safety Programme for support staff ✔ Training for the maintenance team in Asbestos Awareness and Passive Fire Protection measures, such as fire doors and fire resisting walls ✔ Phase one of the new Online Safety Training system has been finalised and sent out to about 30 Associate staff to complete. ✔ A number of face to face safety inductions and webinars have taken place this year covering general safety as well as duty of care and Programme Directors safety responsibilities. ✔ http://www.impactinternational.com/safety/ here you can see our 2014 Annual safety Report www.impactinternational.com 19 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2014: IMPACT INTERNATIONAL TARGETS FOR 2015 è Continue developing the Online Safety Training system. This will include upgrading phase one to improve the pass rate è Develop phase two of the system to cover client facing staff è Continue to encourage other countries to adopt a consistent approach to safety è Continue to encourage hotel and maintenance management to be pro-active in complying with UK safety legislation www.impactinternational.com 20 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2014: IMPACT INTERNATIONAL Principle 7 Principle 8 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental environmental challenges; responsibility; and Principle 9 encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. CONTEXT: Like all businesses Impact faces considerable environmental challenges. As a service organisation our key challenges are around resource usage in our programmes, office energy efficiency and transport. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2014: IMPACT INTERNATIONAL 2014 TARGET: Publish a clear travel policy that states which form of transport should be used for which purpose with the aim of reducing overall travel and increasing use of low carbon methods. PROGRESS: Following a period of staff consultation we have now published a travel policy on the intranet for all staff to better inform travel choices. Staff feedback has been positive to date with any recommended changes reviewed and incorporated as necessary. 2014 TARGET: Work with at least one of our suppliers to help them deliver their services or products in a more environmentally sound method. PROGRESS: We have completed an analysis of current suppliers, but not yet begun this work. As a training business, we do not have a great need for regular deliveries of materials. However, we do believe that through our Learning In The Community commitments, we will be abel to volunteer staff time to complete this target in 2015. 2014 TARGET: Gain a new award for the Impact International LLP Environment Management System. PROGRESS: We have researched the different environmental awards available to us and also sought advice on what would be most appropriate to us. At SME level, there are not a great deal of awards that have a strong set of criteria for achievement. There are many awards that are simply given following a fee and answering of a few questions. We are looking for something more robust than this, yet not a fully blown ISO 14001 for which we cannot currently justify funds. We will continue to look for a suitable alternative in 2015 2014 TARGET: Create better access to the estate woodlands to encourage hotel guests and Impact staff/participants to get closer to the woodland and increase awareness of environmental issues. 2014 target to complete these pathways and involve partners (and maybe local school children) to produce information boards around the trails. PROGRESS: We have opened up large areas of the woods and created pathways which are now regularly used by staff and participants on Impact programmes. This work is ongoing and once complete we will produce the information boards. www.impactinternational.com 22 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2014: IMPACT INTERNATIONAL 2014 TARGET: Clearer communication, including the website, of environmental position for internal staff and external stakeholders including clients and auditors. PROGRESS: We have created an Environment Team to help with the engagement and communication of environmental issues. We have reviewed how we speak about environmental issues internally and changed our practice around this, including holding more staff sessions, surveys, feedback, time in our local environment, ideas gathering and prize draws. We have also reviewed how we are speaking to our external stakeholders, and changed how and where information sits, which will be implemented early in 2015. 2014 TARGET: Update the London Office Code of Practice for environmental performance. PROGRESS: The Code of Practice has been reviewed but not yet published. The review highlighted a few changes, but overall the current policy is still applicable. Changes will be made in early 2015. 2014 TARGET: Complete a cost benefit analysis of including renewable sources in our energy supplier tariff. PROGRESS: This has been researched and it is not currently economically viable to switch suppliers. However, further opportunities to change our energy tariff to include a greater proportion of renewable sources will be researched for 2014, with viable options implemented. 2014 TARGET: Increase international office engagement in environmental issues affecting Impact and qualify progression of country specific environmental policies. PROGRESS: We have contacted international offices to assess current practices and where we can support them. We are in the process of being able to qualify and benchmark individual country policies. More communication on environmental policy issues has been communicated between offices, with best practices shared. We can build upon this in 2015. www.impactinternational.com 23 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2014: IMPACT INTERNATIONAL TARGETS FOR 2015 è Further integrate environmental issues into daily working life for all staff through team days, regular updates, newsletters and meetings è Empower the Environment Team to deliver at least 3 projects for the business è Work with at least one of our suppliers to help them deliver their services or products in a more environmentally sound method. è Gain a new award for the Impact International Environment Management System è Update the London Office Code of Practice for environmental performance è Increase international office engagement in environmental issues affecting Impact and qualify progression of country specific environmental policies è Re-launch the annual environmental report, providing data in more usable formats for different stakeholders è Each country office to partner with a local environmental NGO or charity to deliver a needed service through the Impact volunteering scheme Learning In The Community è Develop the intranet for environmental policies and procedures to make them more accessible for international offices www.impactinternational.com 24 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2014: IMPACT INTERNATIONAL Principle 10 Business should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. CONTEXT Impact firmly believes that all businesses should work against corruption. We have strong internal policies communicated to all staff (through our staff handbook) about expectations for professional and ethical behaviour. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2014: IMPACT INTERNATIONAL Communication on Progress Produced by: Impact International Cragwood House Windermere Cumbria LA23 1LQ t: +44 (0)15394 88333 e: jo.appleby@impactinternational.com www.impactinternational.com 26
