IT’S TIME TO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT TRANSFORM COLD THAT Advancing further by leading the future For over 44 years we’ve been part of thousands of people’s everyday life around the world, bringing the cold that preserves as well as transforms. Preserves, because our products keep refrigerated food fresher longer and transforms, because we understand our customers’ needs, we drive the global market by creating innovative products that offer people a better quality of life and more time to enjoy what they like. Likewise we work every day to lessen our impacts on the environment, creating more compact products that consume less energy. We also focus on the compressors’ post-consumption, so that they once again become raw material input and feed a circular economy as well as benefit society. For us, leadership is to transform, to drive, to engage. It’s to build a better company for ourselves and for the world. It’s to be leader in the markets where we operate by 2020. We look at all the possibilities and their consequences, always. We direct the market. Here we’re leading the future and have the responsibility to transform the present. Our principles page 04 How we produce our products page 24 Social investment page 52 Message from management page 05 Relationship with suppliers page 25 Embraco Ecology Award page 53 Our way of producing page 27 Global Volunteer Day page 54 About this report page 07 Customers page 29 Environmental Network page 55 Our products and technologies page 10 Post-consumption page 31 Social investment in Slovakia page 55 Profile and strategy page 14 Innovation is our trademark page 33 Adjacent information page 56 About us page 15 Doing more with less page 35 GRI Index page 61 Our business strategy page 16 Our employees page 40 Credits page 67 Principles that unite and define us page 17 New leadership model page 41 Awards and recognitions page 19 Profile of our workforce page 42 Corporate governance page 20 Multiculturalism page 43 Attraction and retention page 45 Professional development page 47 Health & Safety page 50 our principles message from management about this report our products and technologies profile and strategy corporate governance how we produce our products doing more with less our employees social investment adjacent information GRI index credits OUR GRI G4-56 PILLARS MISSION VISION Offer innovative solutions Be leader everywhere by 2020, for a better quality of life. and recognized by customers as the preferred partner. VALUES Technology Diversity with inclusion BRAND ATTRIBUTES leadership and Spirit of winning Delivering intelligent performance innovation Integrity Cultivating passion Respect Shaping the global scenario $ Team work Transcending the future Revenue Operational Sustainability growth and excellence value creation People SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 | 4 our principles message from management about this report our products and technologies profile and strategy corporate governance how we produce our products doing more with less our employees social investment adjacent information GRI index credits MESSAGE FROM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 | 5 our principles message from management about this report our products and technologies profile and strategy corporate governance how we produce our products doing more with less our employees social investment adjacent information GRI index credits We are all leaders of the transformation! GRI G4-1 Every year, we’ve reinforced our commitment to As part of this transformation, we launched the Manifesto We transformed our production processes by share with you Embraco’s main economic, social and “We are all leading the future”, which is about our identity consolidating World Class Manufacturing (WCM) environmental results, transparently and consistently. – who we are and what we want to be – and about a methodology, which is making Embraco even more company that drives the global scenario and recognizes efficient, agile, ensuring a high level of operational In this Sustainability Report, we’ll talk about important the responsibility of its market position. excellence in all our units. and recent achievements along with our challenges and strategies to build an even better Embraco simpler, To remain competitive in the global marketplace, we Furthermore, aligning business needs with more innovative and customer centric. continuously invest in research and innovation with environmental care, we strengthened Nat.Genius by a focus on sustainability. One of the main results is opening a second operations unit. This shows the Throughout the year 2014, social, environmental Embraco Wisemotion technology, which is already consistency of our commitment to reverse logistics. Roberto H. Campos and especially economic issues impacted the world. revolutionizing the refrigeration market. Without the President of Embraco We faced a challenging market scenario, with the use of oil and using half the raw materials, Wisemotion I hope that this report helps you understand stagnation of China’s growth, crisis in Europe, reduced enables the development of more versatile, energy how we develop solutions which guarantee our credit lines and tax incentives in Brazil and slow recovery efficient and silent refrigerators. consumers a better quality of life, in addition of the US economy. to Embraco’s 2014 main results and the We know that as important as developing appropriate transformation we aspire for the future. For us, this was the moment to begin a transformation solutions for our customers’ needs, is the way we produce and build a bridge to the future, guided by Vision them: we have sustainability as our business’ guiding Good reading. 2020, which reaffirms our commitment to customers, strategy and we value each one of our 12,000 people. shareholders and society: we want to be leaders everywhere by 2020, and recognized by customers as the preferred partner. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 | 6 our principles message from management about this report our products and technologies profile and strategy corporate governance how we produce our products doing more with less our employees social investment adjacent information GRI index credits ABOUT THIS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 | 7 our principles message from management about this report our products and technologies profile and strategy corporate governance how we produce our products doing more with less our employees social investment adjacent information GRI index credits GRI G4-18 | G4-19 | G4-20 | G4-21 | G4-23 | G4-24 | G4-25 | G4-26 | G4-27 | G4-28 | G4-29 | G4-30 Welcome to our Sustainability Report, an official For the 12th consecutive time, our Report follows the document which includes the main events and reporting guidelines proposed by the Global Reporting achievements in the period covering January 1 Initiative (GRI), a non-governmental organization that to December 31, 2014, from an economic, social proposes a standard multisectoral report and enables, and environmental viewpoint. In addition, the in this way, that companies have their performance Report tells a little of our history, our culture, the assessed by its stakeholders, and also so that they structure under which we work, our management can measure and assess the evolution of their own policies and, of course, our actions to ensure the performance. For the first time, we’ve developed a Report sustainability of our business. adhering to the G4, the fourth and latest generation of GRI Guidelines, released in July 2013 in Amsterdam, in the Netherlands. This voluntary adherence reflects our commitment to best management practices relating to our stakeholders. Main stakeholders: stockholders, customers, companies from the group, employees, suppliers, communities surrounding our operations, and third parties. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 | 8 our principles message from management about this report our products and technologies profile and strategy corporate governance how we produce our products doing more with less our employees social investment adjacent information GRI index credits How do we define the Report’s content? HERE’S A MATERIAL ASPECT! Based on both an in-person and online survey conducted with To make reading easier, every time our stakeholders (internal and external), we sought to identify Environmental Employees that we address a material aspect, our operation’s most relevant issues. The material aspects we’ll use this symbol. Society Customers identified were positioned by the following matrix: Economic and operational MATERIALITY MATRIX Material aspects GRI indicators 30% 1. Research and innovation in product According to the G4 “Core” option, chosen by us Q3-6 development as the most suitable to guide the construction Q7-33 of our Report, each material aspect cited has 10% 2. Encouraging best social environmental one or more GRI indicators, which must be Q5-19 practices in the supply chain Q5-20 answered by us throughout the course of this Q6-26 Q7-35 3. Ability to retain workforce document. To check which GRI indicators we Q7-32 Q4-8 4. Employee training, education and selected to answer, simply access the GRI Index 10% External stakeholder Q4-11 Q5-18 development (table) of this publication (page 61). Q6-22 Q4-14 Q4-10 Q5-21 Q6-25 5. Health and Safety Management Q6-24 Q4-7 It’s important to state that, performance 0% 6. Process waste and effluent management indicators (see GRI index) report only the year Q6-27 Q7-30 Q3-3 Q3-1 Q4-13 7. Financial management of risks and 2014, however, to keep the report updated until Q4-12 the day of its release, some contents of this Q6-29 Q4-15 climate change opportunities Q3-4 publication also address 2015 achievements -10% Q7-31 Q4-17 Q3-2 and events – always properly marked. Q6-23 Q6-28 Q3-5 Q4-9 Q7-34 -20% Q4-16 -30% -30% -20% -10% 0% 10% 20% 30% 40% Internal stakeholder SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 | 9 our principles message from management about this report our products and technologies profile and strategy corporate governance how we produce our products doing more with less our employees social investment adjacent information GRI index credits OUR PRODUCTS AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 | 10 our principles message from management about this report our products and technologies profile and strategy corporate governance how we produce our products doing more with less our employees social investment adjacent information GRI index credits Wisemotion RESIDENCIAL Main benefits In November 2014, the first compressor with Wisemotion technology was produced in Mexico, Energy savings: Embraco Wisemotion technology More compact: with a height equivalent to a 10 chosen to begin Wisemotion production because of Designed to revolutionize the market, Wisemotion is works on demand and therefore can achieve energy cm smartphone, Wisemotion saves space inside the its strategic geographical location – with easy access the world’s first oil-free hermetic compressor intended savings of over 20% when compared to the most sold refrigerator, allowing, for example, an additional to US and European customers. To begin production for household refrigeration. Among its main benefits energy-efficient compressors worldwide. 20 liter drawer to store products. of this revolutionary technology, Mexico’s unit was include reducing the environmental impact and new adapted by purchasing new machinery and by training refrigerator design possibilities, since Wisemotion Silent operation: Embraco Wisemotion technology Eco-friendly: Wisemotion uses approximately 50% all employees involved in the operation. can be placed in various positions inside refrigerators, brings the most modern and innovative noise control less raw material than conventional compressors and without affecting its cooling capacity. solutions, making the refrigerator’s traditional ‘on and eliminates the need for lubricant oil. Furthermore, it Aberje Award off’ noise almost imperceptible to the human ear. provides a savings of approximately 20% in refrigerant Creating this technology took ten years of studies for gas charge, when compared to conventional equipment. With the global communication campaign conducted our R&D team, involved close to 100 engineers and Food preservation: Embraco Wisemotion technology for Wisemotion, we won the Aberje Award, promoted researchers and generated more than 80 patents. automatically adjusts its power according to the Versatility: compressors with Embraco Wisemotion by the Brazilian Corporate Communication Association, Wisemotion was inspired by Swiss watches, recognized refrigerators’ demand needs of which it’s an integral technology can be installed in different locations of the one of the most respected in Brazil, in the category worldwide for their accuracy and quality. part – depending on the compartment size to be cooling system and in the future will be able to power “Communication and Press Relations”. cooled and the amount of food, the compressor will – simultaneously – refrigerator, freezer, wine cellar and need to work more or less. For the final consumer, mini bar. Furthermore, the oil-free solution allows our this generates more efficient food preservation; household refrigeration customers to innovate in their for refrigerator manufacturers, it creates more product designs and introduce new concepts in the convenience, to obtain different power level in global market. varied equipment. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 | 11 our principles message from management about this report our products and technologies profile and strategy corporate governance how we produce our products doing more with less our employees social investment adjacent information GRI index credits Fullmotion COMERCIAL RESIDENCIAL On-off COMERCIAL RESIDENCIAL Launched in the 2000s, Embraco Fullmotion technology Developed by us over 40 years ago, compressors with was an evolution of our variable speed compressors and on-off technology can be found in more than 100 million brought benefits like a reduction of up to 40% in energy refrigerators worldwide. consumption, lower noise levels and more efficient food preservation. In 2014, we launched the EME compressor for household refrigeration, which brings an energy efficiency gain of up By the end of 2015 we will expand, by approximately to 5% compared to its predecessor – the EMD. In addition, 140%, global production of Embraco Fullmotion this solution uses R600a, a natural refrigerant gas that technology compressors. To this end, in 2014, we meets the most stringent environmental regulations such invested in our factories in China and Italy. Our goal as those from the US and Europe, by offering minimum is to ensure faster response to our customers’ needs, CO2 emissions. strengthening our strategic presence in the region. Another important launch with on-off technology was In 2015, we presented the VESF, the world’s most the FFU160HAX, one of the market’s most modern efficient and silent compressor in its category. The compressors for commercial refrigeration, with low noise, product has Embraco Fullmotion technology and can be small size and up to 9% more energy efficient when up to 9% more efficient than the previous model, the compared with compressors of the same capacity from VESD. By working at a minimum speed, its noise is only competitors. 26 dB, which corresponds to the noise level of a library. One of this solution’s main differentials is that the In the China Refrigeration 2015 fair, we launched the same model can be used in applications with different VEGT8U compressor. Focusing on 400 – 1000 liter characteristics, such as vertical beverage displays or coolers it offers less noise and can be up to 20% more horizontal freezers with glass lids, achieving maximum efficient in comparison with conventional compressors. performance and reliability. The compressor also uses R-290, natural gas refrigerant that meets stringent energy efficiency standards along During the Chillventa fair, we launched the EMX33118Y with having low impact on the ozone layer. The VEGT8U compressor, developed for commercial applications and is the solution that meets all DOE (USA Department of adapted for vertical beverage displays. Its distinguishing Energy) requirements, planned to take effect in 2017. feature is the use of natural refrigerant isobutane gas, which generates less impact on the ozone layer. Production of this compressor line began in 2015 in Slovakia. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 | 12 our principles message from management about this report our products and technologies profile and strategy corporate governance how we produce our products doing more with less our employees social investment adjacent information GRI index credits Some big news in 2014 was the Plug-in solution, a sealed unit that has as differentials quick installation and maintenance ease. Designed to attend our commercial refrigeration customers, it’s able to cool self-service displays of up to two thousand liters and has the advantage of having B.blend its entire system assembled by Embraco itself, Launched in 2015 by Brastemp, B.blend which offers reliability and significantly reduces is the first all-in-one capsule beverage the occurrence of problems in the field. One of the platform in the world and was created to Plug-in’s major benefits is that it can be installed revolutionize the experience of consuming by a single operator in less time – when compared drinks at home. The solution, which uses to conventional mounting systems. By using the the EM family compressor, prepares more Plug-in, displays that used to take up to an hour than 20 flavors of hot or cold drinks, with to be assembled, now take about 20 minutes. It’s or without carbonation, from capsules – produced in Brazil. besides offering natural water, either cold, icy, warm and with carbonation. With low noise and vibration levels, the NEU compressors are intended for commercial The product was developed by teams refrigeration. Designed to meet retailers’ needs, from Whirlpool, Embraco and suppliers they stand out for their robustness which ensures – including companies from China and their performance in harsh working conditions Europe – and our biggest challenge was along with energy efficiency up to 10% higher to develop the technology to perform the compared to its predecessor model, the NEK. The cooling and heating functions in seconds. NEU is manufactured in Slovakia and in 2015, its For this, we invited 20 professionals from development won second place in the “Innovation the R&D, Purchasing, Manufacturing and Act of the Year” award, under the product Quality areas to devote themselves to the innovation category. (see page 19) project, which developed its technology in one year (which can be considered record time). SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 | 13 our principles message from management about this report our products and technologies profile and strategy corporate governance how we produce our products doing more with less our employees social investment adjacent information GRI index credits PROFILE AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 | 14 our principles message from management about this report our products and technologies profile and strategy corporate governance how we produce our products doing more with less our employees social investment adjacent information GRI index credits About us GRI G4-3 | G4-4 | G4-5 | G4-6 | G4-8 | G4-9 We’re Embraco, a company founded in 1971, in the city of Joinville (SC) – where we OUR GLOBAL PRESENCE maintain our headquarters – and today is the world technology and innovation leader for hermetic compressors, the main component responsible for producing cold in refrigerators. More than 500 people We’re physically present in Brazil, Mexico, dedicated to R&D United States, Italy, Slovakia, Russia and China. We have over 12,000 employees, with 1,582 patents granted 44 years of history customers in more than 80 countries and a completed in 2015 More than 40 R&D total annual production capacity of more than laboratories 39 million units. More than 90% of suppliers adhere to Code More than 30 thousand of Conduct people benefited from social investment A company that is a actions EMBRACO RUSSIA reference in people Moscou management strategy Sales office EMBRACO UNITED STATES Duluth EMBRACO ITALY Warehouse and Riva Presso Chieri EMBRACO CHINA sales office Office and compressor Beijing EMBRACO BRAZIL factory Office and compressor and 59% of revenues over the Joinville electronics factory last five years came from EMBRACO MEXICO Headquarters, office, Qingdao products launched in the Apodaca, Monterrey compressor factory, foundry Electronics factory EMBRACO SLOVAKIA same period. Compressor factory Itaiópolis Spisská Nová Ves and office Component and cooling Office and systems factory compressor factory SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 | 15 our principles message from management about this report our products and technologies profile and strategy corporate governance how we produce our products doing more with less our employees social investment adjacent information GRI index credits Change in our structure GRI G4-13 In March 2015 we announced the transfer of our Electronic Unit in Joinville, Brazil, to the Qingdao plant in China, where we’ve produced Our business strategy electronic control systems for our compressors since 2007. For us to become leaders everywhere by 2020 and gain the position of preferred partner by our The change is part of the measures we’ve customers, we consistently invest in improving our taken to address growing market challenges. products and processes. Innovation is part of our We’re always attentive and seeking consistent culture and permeates all our activities. Every day, alternatives to remain competitive in the long we look to anticipate market trends, taking the most term, focusing on continuous improvement of modern technologies to our customers and endour operations worldwide. users to make their life better. In 2014, we operated through three workstreams: Our Electronics Brazil employees had the opportunity to be transferred to the Compressor unit, also in Joinville. For those Core business: our compressors Distribution and retail Growth who opted for termination, we offered a benefits package in line with our strategic We produce hermetic compressors for refrigeration Our distribution and retail process is dedicated to The New Business area evolved, and the Growth area people management policy. that preserve food for thousands of families and global compressor sales for distributors, retailers was created, in 2014, to pursue growth opportunities business establishments around the globe. In 2014, and manufacturers who, in turn, sell our products both inside and outside our core business. The Growth the main cooling solutions that we developed and/ to refrigeration technicians – the professionals who team reports directly to our president and has as a major or marketed counted on: a revolutionary technology perform maintenance on freezers and refrigerators in highlight Nat.Genius, a new business that focuses on the Embraco Wisemotion, efficient technology Embraco homes and commercial establishments. You can learn reverse logistics market as well as brings benefits to the Fullmotion and traditional on-off technology (as more about the relationship with this public on page 30. environment. You can learn more about Nat.Genius and its described on page 10). operation on page 31. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 | 16 our principles message from management about this report our products and technologies profile and strategy corporate governance how we produce our products doing more with less our employees social investment adjacent information GRI index credits Principles that unite and define us GRI G4-2 Sustainability Sustainable products Innovation occupies a central role in the Ensuring our business’ viability in the short, medium sustainability strategy. In this context, the energy and long term is a goal of all employees, from efficiency of our products is an essential aspect. leadership to those responsible for the operational We invest in developing innovative solutions and side of our production. All decisions – including in reducing the use of raw materials. the choice of materials that make up compressors, selection criteria of suppliers, training of employees, Corporate sustainability structure among many others – take into account economic, People engagament social and environmental criteria. To ensure that the sustainability strategy Externally, our people engagement is reflected in our permeates throughout our operation, we private social investment policy that guides us to “Sustainable thinking” guides us, inspires us and count on a dedicated internal structure, continuously apply resources in the communities in which challenges us every day because we know the led by the vice president of Sustainability we operate, through educational and environmental responsibility we have to our investors, customers, (Ursula Angeli), who is also responsible for the projects. Internally, we engage our employees to value our employees, communities and other stakeholders. areas of Human Resources, Communication, diversity and seek to ensure the safety of our people. Environment, Health and Safety as well as Sustainability is one of our strategic pillars. Institutional Relations. We engage it in our daily lives through three workstreams: Sustainable value chain Our sustainability vision extends throughout our value chain, from supply to post-consumption. In the supply chain, we work in partnership with our suppliers so that they incorporate into their daily practices sustainability requirements, promoting a joint effort in finding solutions. In post-consumption, we have a compressor reverse logistics program which ensures product recycling after its disposal by the end consumer. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 | 17 our principles message from management about this report our products and technologies profile and strategy corporate governance how we produce our products doing more with less our employees social investment adjacent information GRI index credits Our commitment to the planet Innovation We’re a global company with locations on four continents, Letter of Commitment to Innovation is a characteristic inherent to our culture and has been a more than 12,000 employees and products present in Sustainable Solid Waste Management trait present in products, processes and strategy. Historically we’ve more than 80 countries. We know that for the size and Created by the Ethos Institute, the Institute’s Letter of invested 3% to 4% of annual net revenues in Research & Development scale of our operation, we generate impacts and have Commitment to Sustainable Solid Waste Management aims (R&D) to create products that use less raw material, which are more responsibilities to our stakeholders. So, over the years, to reinforce the private sector’s commitment to sustainable energy efficient and offer a lower environmental impact. we’ve assumed strategically important commitments to development and implementation of the National Policy on global and local entities. They are: Solid Waste. We signed the Letter in 2013, and reinforced The result of this solid performance can be perceived by its built our global goal of sending zero waste to landfills from structure – which includes 40 cutting-edge laboratories and over Sustainable Energy for All compressor factories by 2018 and from the foundry by 500 professionals dedicated to R&D –, strategic partnerships with In 2012, we became the first company headquartered 2022. Anticipating our own goal, we managed to zero out, universities and research institutes in various countries, approval of in Brazil to sign the “Sustainable Energy for All” in 2015, sending waste to landfills from Brazil’s compressor 1,582 patents granted, and also the credibility that our solutions have global commitment. This is an initiative of the United factories. The plant was Embraco’s first compressor factory with our customers. Nations (UN), launched in 2011 aiming to promote the in the world to attain this achievement. mobilization of governments, companies and civil society Innovation is covered in more depth on page 33. to ensure universal access to energy, raise global energy Brazilian GHG Protocol efficiency and increase the participation of renewables in In 2014, we mapped – for the third consecutive year – our the energy mix. greenhouse gas emissions (GHG). In this latest edition, we monitored our operations in China, Brazil, Slovakia, Mexico, Global Compact Italy and the United States. The results can be found on In 2014, we reinforced our commitment to the Global page 39 of this publication. Compact by signing a Letter of Commitment Against Corruption. We’ve been signatories to this UN initiative for over 12 years. Its goal is to engage the business community in adopting fundamental and international values that encompass human rights, labor relations, environment and anti-corruption. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 | 18 our principles message from management about this report our products and technologies profile and strategy corporate governance how we produce our products doing more with less our employees social investment adjacent information GRI index credits Awards and recognitions Exame Sustainability Guide 2014 VOCÊ S/A Guide The Best Companies We were voted one of the most sustainable to Work 2014 companies in the electro-electronics sector by We were elected the best company to work for in the Exame Sustainability Guide, one of the largest and Career category of the 18th edition of the Guia VOCÊ most respected publications on sustainability and S/A magazine award, one of the most important in corporate responsibility in Brazil. The publication Brazil in the Human Resource area. is annual and uses a methodology developed by the Center for Sustainability Studies of the Getulio Via Bona Slovakia Vargas Foundation (GVCes) – reference institution on In March 2015, we were winners of the Via Bona the subject in the country. Slovakia award in the “Good Partner for Community” category. It’s the second time we’ve won the ABERJE 2014 Award award, which is granted by the Pontis Foundation We won the national phase of the ABERJE Award, and is considered one of the most important local promoted by the Brazilian Corporate Communication recognition of social responsibility. Association, with the case “WISEMOTION – A story in 12 languages”, in the International Communication Innovation Act of the Year 2014 Award and Relations category. Our Slovakia unit was recognized with second place in the “Product Innovation” category. The award was FINEP Award bestowed for the NEU commercial compressor, which We’re among three finalists for the FINEP Award, the is produced in the country. most important innovation stimulus and recognition tool in Brazil. The award’s results will be announced in 2015. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 | 19 our principles message from management about this report our products and technologies profile and strategy corporate governance how we produce our products doing more with less our employees social investment adjacent information GRI index credits CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 | 20 our principles message from management about this report our products and technologies profile and strategy corporate governance how we produce our products doing more with less our employees social investment adjacent information GRI index credits GRI G4-34 | G4-38 In Embraco, our highest corporate governance body is Proximity to leadership called the president’s staff and its main duties are to define and monitor the implementation of the strategy, To connect Embraco’s day-to-day management Vision change monitor performance of the organization and executives and operation, aligning them with its strategy and through quarterly reviews and make key decisions on objectives, we hold events such as the Annual In 2014 we changed our vision, which is economic, environmental and social issues. Leadership Meeting and Strategic Dialogues, which now: be the leader everywhere by 2020, include participation of directors who are part of the and recognized by customers as the Another important staff function is to conduct our risk company’s staff. preferred partner. This change reaffirms our management. For this, the body uses the Enterprise Risk commitment to deliver innovative solutions Management (ERM) methodology, which defines those for a better quality of life and our role as responsible for monitoring risk and opportunity factors, leaders and drivers of global market trends. and executes action plans to mitigate monitored risks. Controller Along with the vision, we also launched the COMPOSITION OF PRESIDENT’S STAFF Manifesto “We are all leading the future”, In 2006, after a shareholder reorganization, which is about our identity – who we are the company joined with Multibrás – a home and what we want to be. The Manifesto appliance producer – forming, in Brazil, speaks about our people, who are engaged, Whirlpool S.A., controlled by the American talented and passionate about what they do. Whirlpool Corporation, which is today the It speaks about a company that leads the largest home appliance manufacturer in transformation, drives the global market the world. and recognizes the responsibility of its President market position. Since it provides cooling solutions to the entire market, Embraco maintains an independent management, with a strong Five vice-presidents shield policy that ensures the confidentiality of information, protecting its business as well as that of its customers. Three directors SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 | 21 our principles message from management about this report our products and technologies profile and strategy corporate governance how we produce our products doing more with less our employees social investment adjacent information GRI index credits Ethics and transparency Combating corruption GRI G4-41 We adhere to the requirements of the American Sarbanes-Oxley Our employees’ participation Reporting channels To manage questions about the conduct expected Act (SOX), a North American law created to reduce the risk of financial from our employees and suppliers as well as fraud. Following SOX rules, all internal controls over significant financial So as to engage employees in our antiBesides conducting trainings, we maintain maintain the communication channels that receive reports are documented and tested by the internal audit area, and corruption policy, we conducted presential a channel for anonymous allegations about complaints or claims, we have an Ethics Committee. are subsequently validated and certified by an external audit, on an training, with Embraco professionals, based corruption through a free hotline that is annual basis. During 2014, 301 controls were audited in 71% of on our Code of Ethics and Global Compliance available to employees, customers, suppliers Additionally, we count on a Code of Ethics, Global Embraco’s plants. Policies, covering topics such as corruption, and other stakeholders. Compliance Policies and the Letter of Organizational money laundering and antitrust actions. In Values, which are adhered by all employees. For our In addition to SOX, to ensure the integrity of our operation, we addition, we have 15 global internal ethics If an allegation is made, a specific committee suppliers, we have the Code of Conduct, aimed at conducted operational audits in our units 100% of them are subject and compliance policies. verifies all allegations received, confidentially. 100% of this public. to periodic review of all processes therein performed and documented. In 2014, six operational audits were carried out in order to check Training in anti-corruption policies and REPORTING CHANNELS the internal control environment. procedures is offered to 100% of newly Brazil: 0800 891 4247 hired employees and, from time to time, to Italy: 800 788 476 SOX PROCESSES EVALUATED GRI G4 SO3 those who have been previously trained (in a Slovakia: 800 961 2419 Brazil Italy Slovakia United States China knowledge updating process). China: 11 800 711 0475 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 Mexico: 001 800 961 4262 Total 13 13 9 9 9 9 6 6 0 0% Percentage 45% 45% 24% 24% 24% 24% 16% 16% 11 38% of operation SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 | 22 our principles message from management about this report our products and technologies profile and strategy corporate governance how we produce our products doing more with less our employees social investment adjacent information GRI index credits Fostering our sector’s development GRI G4-15 | G4-16 As global technology leaders, we actively participate in developing public policies that contribute to PARTICIPATION IN ASSOCIATIONS AND ORGANIZATIONS refrigeration industry development. American Chamber of Itaiópolis Commercial and Industrial National Research, Development and National Council for Scientific and Our work is focused on the formulation of Commerce in Slovakia; Association (ACII); Engineering Association of Innovative Technological Development (CNPq); guidelines for innovation, energy efficiency, Companies (Anpei) Brazilian Electrical and Electronic Slovakia Electrical Equipment Federation of Industries of Santa professional development and industry Industry Association (Abinee); Industry Association; Human Resource Development Catarina (Fiesc); regulations. Association – Slovakia; Brazilian Association of Brazilian Foreign Trade Federation of Industries of In this way, we’ve also established partnerships with Advertisers (ABA); Association (AEB); Business Leaders Forum – Slovakia; São Paulo (Fiesp); and research centers and universities in several countries, Brazilian Business Communication Occupational Health and Safety Electricity Utility Company International Electrotechnical and act strategically with government agencies of Association (Aberje) Professionals Association of Joinville of Santa Catarina (Celesc); Commission (IEC). these different locations. In the list of organizations and Region (APSSOJ); that rely on our cooperation are: Brazilian Foundry Association (Abifa); Center of Industries of the State Joinville Business Association (ACIJ); of Santa Catarina (Ciesc); Brazilian Association of Technical Standards (ABNT); Latin American Electrical Joinville Architect and Engineer and Electronic Industrial Center (Ceaj); Brazilian Human Resources Association (Alainee); Association (ABRH); Joinville – Spisska Nová Ves Sister National Association of City Committee; Brazilian Refrigeration, Air Manufacturers of Electro-electronic Conditioning, Ventilation and Heating Products (Eletros); National Confederation of Industry / Association (Abrava); Brazilian Business Coalition; SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 | 23 our principles message from management about this report our products and technologies profile and strategy corporate governance how we produce our products doing more with less our employees social investment adjacent information GRI index credits HOW WE PRODUCE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 | 24 our principles message from management about this report our products and technologies profile and strategy corporate governance how we produce our products doing more with less our employees social investment adjacent information GRI index credits To ensure the business’ sustainability, we analyze Relationship globally our products’ entire lifecycle – from raw material inputs purchased from suppliers, to with suppliers GRI G4-12 | HR1 | HR10 recycling the final product after the end of its useful life – to seek efficiency gain opportunities and In 2014, we worked with more than five thousand thus reduce operating costs as well as natural suppliers, in 35 countries and the main products SUCCESS STORY ARYLUX resource use. acquired were steel, copper and engineering parts. Once a company qualifies in our bank and goes on In 2014 our Supplier Excellence Program worked with Next we describe the initiatives developed together to supply products and/or services, it’s received as Arylux, a manufacturer of electrical and mechanical with suppliers – from where a large part of inputs a partner and has Embraco’s support to become components, located in Hungary, with which we’ve had comes from – manufacturing process, relationship increasingly sustainable. a relationship since 2004. with customers and reverse logistics process which we do to reclaim and recycle our compressors after This work is carried out through the Supplier We took our Supply team to our partner’s facilities to learn the end of their useful life. Excellence Program, developed since 2012, aiming more about manufacturing processes as well as to map and to improve the performance of our supply chain select the main ideas for improvement. regarding aspects related to service, quality and costs, through workshops and multidisciplinary In this way, we suggested solutions to optimize costs, product works, among other actions. quality, improve logistics processes along with interaction and communication processes with Embraco, seeking continuous In 2014, 20 workshops were held with suppliers growth and maintaining Arylux business’ sustainability. in Slovakia, Italy, China and Brazil. As an example of the initiatives raised, we exchanged cardboard boxes used for transport for wooden ones, which are more robust, flexible (since the size of the products are different), sustainable and cost less. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 | 25 our principles message from management about this report our products and technologies profile and strategy corporate governance how we produce our products doing more with less our employees social investment adjacent information GRI index credits Adherence to the code of conduct To be an Embraco supplier, the applicant company must Biennial self-assessment be aligned with the principles that govern our actions, explicit in the code of conduct. This means that neither Aiming to assess the suppliers’ adherence to our the supplier nor the third parties contracted by it, can ethical principles, every two years we invite this public – under any circumstances – condone corruption, child to complete a self-assessment questionnaire that labor, slave labor, discrimination, deforestation or other includes questions regarding profile, labor relation rights, environmental violations, as well as comply with all their environmental impact management and production chain country’s labor laws. control. In 2013, we carried out this process and received feedback from 90% of our supplier base. In 2015, the Since 2009, we’ve sent our code of conduct to our survey will be done again. suppliers. In 2014, this document was sent to 100% of direct suppliers globally and received 91% adherence SELF-ASSESSMENT FEEDBACKS IN 2013 Plant Received Nº of processes % SUPPLIER’S ADHERENCE TO THE Brazil 117 158 74 CODE OF CONDUCT IN 2014 China 135 140 99 Plant Adherence In progress Nº of processes % Europe 267 276 68 Brazil 152 12 164 93 Mexico 32 36 88 China 132 0 132 100 Total 551 610 90 Europe 133 20 153 87 Mexico 44 12 56 79 Total 461 44 505 91 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 | 26 our principles message from management about this report our products and technologies profile and strategy corporate governance how we produce our products doing more with less our employees social investment adjacent information GRI index credits Our way of producing World Class Manufacturing To become increasingly more efficient in our production process, since 2013 we began implementing a complete system for continuous improvement focused on safety, quality and cost reduction, based on the World Class Manufacturing (WCM) methodology in all our operations. Part of WCM is the simplification and organization of our work routine, to ensure ZERO accidents, ZERO waste, as well as productivity gains in all units and countries Costs 4% efficiency increase in 3 months, and in Brazil 8% people absenteeism and turnover, and our goal is to where we operate. Because we’re a global company, For the duration of the reporting period, we efficiency increase in less than 5 months. reduce, close to 20% and 5%, respectively, in 2015. adoption of this methodology becomes even more managed a significant cost reduction in Italy, important, as it allows us to replicate the best practices Quality Environment & energy Slovakia and Brazil. carried out in a particular plant in others, always We managed to have ZERO defects on the problems We managed to reduce electricity consumption by considering and respecting each region’s particularities. Focused improvement addressed in Italy, Slovakia and Brazil. 1% in Italy and waste sent to landfills has been We were able to evolve significantly in applying reduced by 46% in Slovakia and 40% in Brazil. Early management At the end of 2014, the plants in Italy, Slovakia, Brazil basic and intermediate tools to improve safety, Structuring the pillar focused mainly on reducing and Mexico were operating within the methodology. quality and cost. We successfully applied 101 tools losses in machinery and equipment implementation Consequently, according to the WCM’s base pillars, we in Italy, 72 in Slovakia and 77 in Brazil. during the early production stages. can highlight the following results: Autonomous and professional People development maintenance activities & Logistics Structuring the pillar focused on improving We managed to have ZERO breakdowns on pilot In 2014, we had three WCM knowledge management in applying WCM methods machines in Italy during the last 24 months with internal audits and four and tools. Indicators monitored in this pillar are 8% efficiency increase. In Slovakia we recorded a external audits, globally. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 | 27 our principles message from management about this report our products and technologies profile and strategy corporate governance how we produce our products doing more with less our employees social investment adjacent information GRI index credits Certifications Product safety GRI G4 PR1 To attend the most diverse markets, we adhere to global certification standards The care regarding safety is present from projects that will result in Moreover, we monitor 655 harmful substances which give their stamp of approval to our new products to internal and external tests (made with our partners) in order to avoid that they are present in monitoring and operationalization practices conducted to ensure transparency and quality in the manufacturing processes and products. Our work is certified regarding different aspects of our business. process. This evaluation is performed on 100% of compressor by the QC080000 standard. families, following a representative statistical sampling. Foundry | compressors | refrigeration Compressors | electronics Compressors Compressors Compressors components and systems | electronics Quality | ISO 9001 Quality | ISO 9001 Quality | ISO 9001 Quality | ISO 9001 Quality | ISO 9001 Occupation Safety and Health Occupation Safety and Health Occupation Safety and Health Occupation Safety and Health Management System | OHSAS 18001 Management System | OHSAS 18001 Management System | OHSAS 18001 Management System | OHSAS 18001 Management of harmful products to the Management of harmful products to the Environmental Management Management of harmful products to the environment and RoHS (Restriction of Hazardous environment and RoHS (Restriction of Hazardous System | ISO 14001 environment and RoHS (Restriction of Hazardous Substances) | IECQ QC 080.000 Substances) | IECQ QC 080.000 Substances) | IECQ QC 080.000 Environmental Management Environmental Management Environmental Management System | ISO 14001 System | ISO 14001 System | ISO 14001 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 | 28 our principles message from management about this report our products and technologies profile and strategy corporate governance how we produce our products doing more with less our employees social investment adjacent information GRI index credits Customers GRI G4 PR5 We continuously seek to stay close to our customers, monitoring and understanding how they carry out their PARTICIPATION IN TRADE FAIRS AND BUSINESS EVENTS activities and, in this way, offer the best solutions to meet their demands quickly and completely. ASHRAE CHILLVENTA United States (2014 and 2015) Germany (2014) To know the customers’ satisfaction levels in relation to our We participated, for the 36th and 37th consecutive We were present at the 4th edition of Chillventa, where brand and the main factors that influence their purchasing time, in AHR Expo, the world’s largest trade show on we presented to the market the EMX3118Y compressor decisions, since 2012, we’ve conducted an annual survey cooling, air-conditioning and heating. During the event, – created for commercial applications and tailored whose results have helped us better understand this public we presented differentiated commercial refrigeration especially for small and medium-sized vertical beverage each time more. solutions, such as the Plug-in and VEGT8U. displays. The product is manufactured in Slovakia. In 2014, we conducted a survey with 233 respondents in ATMOSPHERE APPLIANCE WORLD EXPO 12 languages, covering over 30 countries. In addition, we United States and Europe (2014 and 2015) China (2015) consolidated the survey’s results in an unprecedented way Every year, we participate in discussions on the use In this fair, we showcased to the market two new models and created a site with refrigeration industry trends – which of natural refrigerants and energy efficiency during for household application: VESF, the most efficient and will be available to customers participating in the survey. Atmosphere, an important event to exchange experience silent compressor in the world (at minimum speed), and and best practices with groups that are committed to the EME, the EM family’s most efficient compressor – a Additionally, in 2014 we included in our sample potential innovation and sustainability. market benchmark. Embraco customers and thus expanded our survey scope to better understand what our customers (current and potential) are looking for and how we can create more value for them. CHINA REFRIGERATION These data are used in strategic meetings and help us to China (2015) increasingly focus on this public. In Asia’s most important event for the commercial refrigeration and aftermarket segment, we presented the NEU product line, focused on commercial refrigeration and the CHR 2015 compressor, equipped with Fullmotion For 2015 we’ll use the same methodology (with even more technology and designed for 400-1000 liter coolers. refinement) and we can continue measuring how well we meet the needs of this strategic public and, consequently, anticipate market trends. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 | 29 our principles message from management about this report our products and technologies profile and strategy corporate governance how we produce our products doing more with less our employees social investment adjacent information GRI index credits Relationship with contractors Product labeling GRI G4 PR3 Since 1984, we’ve produced a magazine to contractors, Training retail owners and technical assistants from the Just as we’ve done in recent decades, during the reporting To improve consumer and customer safety, we publish on our refrigeration segment. The Refrigeration Club – which period, we invested in training these professionals so that website the compressors’ application manual with information about until 2012 was called Revista Bola Preta –, is one of the they’re able to provide increasingly qualified service to users electrical installation, mounting, handling, storage, good use and most important publications in the industry, and brings and to keep themselves informed about our major launches. solutions to the main technical problems that may occur, along with technical content, interviews, opinion of recognized documents that accompany the purchased products. market professionals, sustainability aspects, among In 2014, we traveled more than 38,000 kilometers to others, always in a didactic and detailed manner. offer 14 technical lectures in Latin America impacting On the labels of our products, we divulge the certifications obtained more than 1,700 refrigeration technicians. from the regulatory agencies and that certify the models’ safety, Refrigeration Club is published in Portuguese and such as seals from Underwriters Laboratories (UL), Association for Spanish, is quarterly and has a circulation of 14,000 Electrical, Electronic & Information Technologies (VDE), Instituto copies distributed, free of charge, in different Latin Argentino de Normalización y Certificación (Iram), Rheinland – American countries. Technischer Uberwachungs-Verein Rheinland (TUV) and China Quality Certification Centre (CQC). Loyalty Program Aiming to strengthen the relationship with retailers and contractors, at the end of 2014, we launched a CARBON FREE SEAL benefit and reward program for specialized stores, their counter sales and contractors: 100% Embraco In June 2014 the Refrigeration Club received the Advantage Program. Through this action, we want to Carbon Free seal, a certification that recognizes recognize companies and professionals that maintain 100% neutralization of greenhouse gas emissions a partnership with our company, trusting our brand and generated by the publication’s printing processes our product quality. and distribution. For this, we created a point system to offer this public To neutralize the emissions, we promote the benefits such as work tools – office supplies, tool planting of more than 80 tree species per hectare boxes, uniforms, etc. – and consumer goods – such as in Areas of Permanent Preservation (APPs), electronics, housewares and sporting goods. In addition, offsetting 7.9 tons of emissions. also part of this initiative is a discount club, which gives access to exclusive offers on products and services. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 | 30 our principles message from management about this report our products and technologies profile and strategy corporate governance how we produce our products doing more with less our employees social investment adjacent information GRI index credits Post-consumption Nat.Genius In 2014, we launched Nat.Genius, a new operation that Scenario Circular economy uses the expertise gained in over 20 years in which we According to Brazil’s Ministry of Environment, in 2012, Essentially, the circular economy concept carried out reverse logistics for our compressors in Brazil about 64 million tons of solid waste were produced in is to transform solid waste into inputs to to create a new business. Inspired by nature, where all the Country1 and only 2% of this material returned to produce new products. cycles are closed and all elements are reused at the end the supply chain through recycling. The remaining of their useful life, Nat.Genius seeks to generate positive 98% ended up in dumps, controlled landfills and We can better understand this process in the impacts for the environment and value for Embraco as sanitary landfills. illustration below: well as for our stakeholders. BRAZIL IN 2012, 62 MILLION TONS OF WASTE Industry Waste Industrial production Industrial waste and generates waste products at the end of their that´s discarded useful life are collected 2% 98% Recycling Landfill CIRCULAR ECONOMY 17,8% Processing Dumps Separated parts receive Engineering adequate treatment to Discarded products are become raw material inputs analyzed and sorted, and the 58% and return to the industry. potential of each of them as Sanitary raw material input is defined. landfills 24,2% Controlled Specialized disassembly landfills Waste is disassembled so that each part has its most appropriate destination. 1. Information available at http://www.mma.gov.br/informma/item/10272-pol%C3%ADtica-de-res%C3%ADduos-s%C3%B3lidos-apresenta-resultados-em-4-anos SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 | 31 our principles message from management about this report our products and technologies profile and strategy corporate governance how we produce our products doing more with less our employees social investment adjacent information GRI index credits Let’s work! Results Recognition In 2014, we carried forward the reverse logistics GRI EN28 In 2014, Nat.Genius became part of the Ellen Macarthur work of Embraco compressors (performed for more Foundation map, the foremost authority on World Circular than 20 years) and also incorporated in its operation In 2014, through Nat.Genius we recycled 698,000 Economy – in Brazil, only two initiatives have obtained compressors from other manufacturers. Embraco compressors, 103,000 compressors from other recognition by the Institution. You can learn more by manufacturers, which generated: clicking here. Through a logistical plan, waste arrived at the Nat. • 4.6 thousand tons of steel Genius plants and there received a nobler destination, • 1.8 thousand tons of iron being disassembled and recycled. The core of the • 94 tons of aluminum Future compressors’ motor, for example, could be reused in • 562 tons of copper From 2015 on, Nat.Genius’ plans are focused on the ventilation industry – after passing through • 131,000 liters of oil geographic expansion, that is, increase both its reach to industrial processes. capture more waste, as well as its infrastructure to attend other regions and increasingly foster circular economy. At the end of 2014, Nat.Genius’ two units and sales Pilot project with collectors office had nearly 100 employees. To increase the reach and be able to collect more waste to supply our factories, we carried out projects with collectors of recyclable materials. Through this pilot project, besides contributing to the environment, Nat.Genius plays a deeper social role, NAT.GENIUS UNITS fostering this market and generating income for the collectors and their families. In 2014, we also opened a second unit of Nat.Genius beside our Foundry in Joinville (Brazil), which focuses on disassembling refrigerators and white goods. The other unit continues operating with Embraco’s compressor factory, focused on dismantling and recycling compressors. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 | 32 our principles message from management about this report our products and technologies profile and strategy corporate governance how we produce our products doing more with less our employees social investment adjacent information GRI index credits Innovation is our trademark We’re leaders in technology and drivers of the global Our main drivers scenario. For us, that means we have the constant challenge of being at the forefront in developing new Every time our professionals and partners come together to think about new technologies technologies and solutions that meet our customers’ and compressors, the main driver of their creations is product development that meets demands. the needs of customers and end users, anticipating trends and overcoming innovation In 2014, miniaturization of barriers. A reflection of this is our technology leadership in the markets where we For this, we have a Research & Development (R&D) area our compressors provided operate. One way to identify whether we’re on track is the Customer Satisfaction Survey, composed of more than 500 professionals distributed in savings of 2,977 tons of conducted annually (more information on page 29). Besides these, there are other drivers five countries, a professional development framework (W raw materials compared to that direct our development. They are: Career, more information on page 48) designed to attract the previous year. the best talents and a 3% to 4% investment of our annual revenue. Energy efficiency GRI G4 EN7 Natural refrigerant gases Produce compressors that consume each time We pioneered the use of refrigerant gases that don’t harm Miniaturization GRI G4 EN27 Currently, our R&D area is divided into three less energy is one of the focuses of our R&D team. the planet’s ozone layer and we continue seeking solutions Our compressors weigh, on average, 5.8 kilos, however, departments: As main benefits, energy efficient compressors reduce that offer less and less environmental impact. in the past, this average has already been equivalent • Product Engineering: dedicated to creating new their environmental impact and consumer spending to 7.2 kilos. This considerable difference is the result solutions that surpass market needs and/or bring new on energy. For over two decades we’ve prioritized using natural of intense research and development. The fact that possibilities for the refrigerator industry. refrigerants that, in addition to being harmless to the products are increasingly smaller and lighter implies • Commercial and Household Refrigeration: dedicated to As an example we mention the Fullmotion technology, ozone layer, have a global warming potential contribution reduced use of raw material – in the last five years we developing new projects that use Embraco technology. which allows the final consumer to save up to 40% that’s almost nil compared to the main refrigerants used were able to save 10.8 tons of material – and generate This sector is subdivided to give differentiated focus on on the electricity bill. Since its launch, more than 19 in the market. a gain in internal space for refrigerators that have our commercial and residential applications. million compressors with this technology have already compressors, generating a great benefit for the final been sold, and due to their low energy consumption Besides this important benefit, natural refrigerant gases consumer. • Technology and Innovation: responsible for all when compared to other compressors, we’ve already are significant factors in reducing energy consumption. innovation management of products and processes generated savings of 8,552 million kWh around the To position ourselves externally and strategically influence Cost reduction in R&D. world – which would be enough to power the city the market on the subject, we have also launched the Produce our products with increasingly lower cost is of San Francisco, in the United States, for more than Natural Refrigerants website. an important driver to remain competitive around the four years. globe. For this, we try to be attentive to the market demands and invest in improving our operational and administrative processes, as well as use fewer natural resources – water, energy and materials. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 | 33 our principles message from management about this report our products and technologies profile and strategy corporate governance how we produce our products doing more with less our employees social investment adjacent information GRI index credits Partnerships with universities and customers Besides having our internal team, our innovation is also the result of strategic relationships we have with universities and customers. Embraco Innovation Award PURDUE UNIVERSITY Created to encourage Chinese students and researchers, since 2011, we’ve We’ve maintained a partnership with the Federal conducted the Embraco Innovation Award, a contest that rewards projects that University of Santa Catarina (UFSC) – in Brazil – Located in West Lafayette, Indiana (USA), Purdue prioritize developing cooling solutions with high energy efficiency. In 2015, the 3rd since 1982 and in recent decades, we’ve expanded University was founded in 1869 with a donation edition of the award received 61 projects from Chinese universities and research partnerships with other universities in order to join made by John Purdue, a businessman and institutes, which competed in four main categories. The criteria that defined the expertises to discover new solutions. philanthropist from the region. Currently, the awards were: level of originality and innovation; impacts and results of the project university has more than 18,000 faculty and staff in terms of energy efficiency; technical quality; real market feasibility potential; In 2014, we celebrated the 30th anniversary of the first and its students have already registered more and socio-environmental impacts. paper we presented in the International Compressor than 15,000 US patents. Engineering Conference, a major industry conference The event that presented the grand prize winners was held in April 2015, in the that’s been held for 42 years from Purdue University, The Purdue University College of Engineering city of Shanghai, in China, and the project that received the US$ 40,000 incentive in the United States. During this time, we’ve presented was founded in 1874 and has already trained for its development which proposed a cooling system driven by energy generated more than 100 articles and have made significant 22 astronauts, including Neil Armstrong and from ocean fishing waste. contribution to researches on Refrigeration. Eugene Cernan, who were, respectively, the first and the last astronaut to walk on the moon. With our customers, the partnership focuses on more The University is ninth among all the country’s practical issues, because they’re the ones who make engineering schools that grant doctoral degrees use of the products. Therefore, we try to bring them according to the News & World Report ranking. into the laboratories to develop – together – solutions that are aligned to their demands (co-development). Besides this, to make sure we’re meeting the customers’ main demands by creating new technologies, we’ve included in our Customer Satisfaction Survey (more information on page 29) questions about innovation and, in this way, learn more about their real needs. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 | 34 our principles message from management about this report our products and technologies profile and strategy corporate governance how we produce our products doing more with less our employees social investment adjacent information GRI index credits DOING MORE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 | 35 our principles message from management about this report our products and technologies profile and strategy corporate governance how we produce our products doing more with less our employees social investment adjacent information GRI index credits As part of our sustainability strategy, we Alongside the robust lean thinking strategy, constantly evaluate the processes that make which has permeated the production up our operation in pursuit of lean thinking, process for more than 30 years, we began, that is, produce products with each time in 2013, implementation of the World Class fewer natural resources. This way of thinking Manufacturing (WCM) methodology in all implies both a well defined environmental our plants, which has enhanced the gains in responsibility policy, as well as a significant operations. You can learn more about WCM on cost reduction for Embraco. page 27. This means that our teams are always focused Also within our strategy is the goal of on avoiding waste of all inputs used in the constantly reducing greenhouse gas operation, such as water, energy, materials, emissions (GHG). In addition to environmental among others. To do this, we rely mainly on responsibility, reducing emissions means two principles: production process studies – to being able to meet any environmental eliminate bottlenecks, reprocesses and find legislation, avoiding any penalties and fines the most efficient way to produce – and always as well as contributing to more effective risk maintain production adjusted to our demand – management (you can learn more on page 39). so there are neither excess inventories nor loss of our production. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 | 36 our principles message from management about this report our products and technologies profile and strategy corporate governance how we produce our products doing more with less our employees social investment adjacent information GRI index credits Doing more with Efficiency in offices and production process GRI G4 EN6 less energy GRI G4 EN3 ENERGY CONSUMPTION IN 2014 (GJ) As in previous years, in 2014, we had, globally, several initiatives to reduce our energy consumption in Direct energy Using less and less energy in compressor production is different plants. a goal in all our plants. In 2014, we consumed – globally Natural gas 492,082 – 1,477,833 GJ, virtually stable with the number GLP 13,380 Brazil: in the compressor factory’s administrative consumed in 2013. Analyzing direct and indirect energy Methanol 862 area – located in Joinville, Santa Catarina (Brazil) – we ENERGY INTENSITY RATE IN 2014 consumption, we observed that there was a slight Diesel oil 2,760 exchanged conventional fluorescent lamps and lighting GRI G4 EN5 increase of 4% and 2% respectively. Gasoline 166 fixtures for a set of highly reflective lighting fixtures and Energy consumption in Energy intensity rate (Kwh/unit) fluorescent lamps with individual switches. As a result, we Propane 4,545 kWh per compressor have reduced by 65% our electrical energy consumption Ethanol 32 Electricity 8.58 ENERGY CONSUMPTION (GJ) in the area. In the production process, repairing leaks in Kerosene 181 Natural Gas 4.781 the compressed air circuit represented a 20% savings in Var. 2014 2012 2013 2014 Total direct energy consumption 541,008 Methanol 0.009 electricity use. vs. 2013 Direct 551,004 522,703 541,008 4% Indirect energy Propane 0.001 Italy: we installed solar panels and began using this Indirect 1,033,215 946,288 963,825 2% Electricity 963,825 GLP 0 energy source to heat our canteen’s water. Additionally, TOTAL 1,584,219 1,468,991 1,477,833 1% Total indirect energy consumption 963,825 Diesel 0.026 we had energy efficiency gains in compressor production TOTAL ENERGY CONSUMPTION 1,477,833 Gasoline 0.001 due to a new air compression system, which generated a reduction of 727,200 kWh per year. China: we introduced a system that recycles heat ENERGY CONSUMPTION from air compressors, resulting in a 2,533,609 kWh Energy Ration China Italy Slovakia Brazil Mexico United Brazil China Energy consumption per year savings. Foundry Itaiópolis (Kwh/unit) (compressors) (compressors) (compressors) (compressors) (compressors) States (electronics) (electronics) Electricity 4,819 6,737 7,26 6,527 6,614 2,204 1,314 0,487 798,979 0,082 Natural Gas 3,076 8,716 7,106 3,892 5,689 6,535 0 0 41,663 0,000 36% Methanol 0 0 0 0,009 0 0 0 0 0 0,002 64% Propane 0 0 0,001 0 0 0,332 0 0 0 0 GLP 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Diesel 0 0,004 0,044 0,038 0 0 0 0 0 0 Indirect energy Direct energy Gasoline 0 0 0 0,003 0 0 0 0 0 0 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 | 37 our principles message from management about this report our products and technologies profile and strategy corporate governance how we produce our products doing more with less our employees social investment adjacent information GRI index credits Doing more with less water GRI G4 EN8 | EN10 Water reuse GRI G4-22 Water discharge GRI G4 EN22 In 2014 globally we reduced our water consumption by 6%, with emphasis on reduction coming from wells, Globally, 28% of all water that enters our units, either In 2014, we discarded 549,085 m3 of water, which decreased 24%. from internal or external sources, is treated and a number 13% higher than in 2013. recirculated, and subsequently used in toilets, cooling towers and for washing containers and floors. WATER CONSUMPTION (M3) – EMBRACO GLOBAL DISCHARGE OF EFFLUENTS (M3) EMBRACO GLOBAL Var. 2014 Var. 2014 2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 vs. 2013 WATER REUSE – EMBRACO GLOBAL vs. 2013 Wells 332,195 273,448 207,198 -24% 2012 2013 2014 Return to col337,155 394,360 236,492 -40% lection point Water supply Total volume (m3) 225,511* 241,569* 243,697 396,616 385,735 410,832 6% networks Public sewage Recirculation rate (%) 31 27 28 0 0 109,765 system Total 728,811 659,183 618,029 -6% * Number updated with new formulas for calculation aimed at greater information Evaporation 50,254 44,781 83,617 87% accuracy. Irrigation 219 46,233 119,211 158% Total 387,628 485,374 549,085 13% Water consumption Recirculated and reused water Water discharge (m3) 34% 66% 549,085 31% 485,374 Water supply networks Wells 387,628 28% 27% More information on page 58. 2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 | 38 our principles message from management about this report our products and technologies profile and strategy corporate governance how we produce our products doing more with less our employees social investment adjacent information GRI index credits Doing more with Doing more with less waste less emissions GRI G4 EN23 | EN25 GRI G4 EN16 Emissions by unit around the globe In 2014, we produced 111,000 tons of waste, being: 108,000 Together our operations around the globe, in 2014, Waste (t) tons considered non-hazardous and 3,000 tons considered emitted, 100,936.21 tons of CO2, 64% of them hazardous. The variation of the total waste in comparison with considered direct – or scope 1 –, and 36% considered 2013 shows that there was a 0.5% reduction in the production indirect – Scope 2 – which are due to electrical 88% 12% from compressor of these materials. energy consumption. from other units plants 131,558 TOTAL WASTE EMBRACO GLOBAL Waste (t) -14.9% Non-hazardous Var. 2014 2012 2013 2014 -0.5% waste (t) vs. 2013 Economic 111,985 111,413 Looking more closely at our direct emissions (Scope 107,896 89,790 89,376 7% recycling 1), we observed that: +0.7% Environmental 111,985 1,042 1,625 2,126 31% • 75% of them were stationary, that is, the result of recycling 2012 2013 2014 131,558 burning fuel to generate electricity; Incineration 0 0.1 0 -100% -7.9% Landfill 18,511 16,702 16,505 -1% • 21% of them were fugitive, that is, the result of Construction/ Goals 111,413 burning fuel for transportation vehicles such as cars, 0 0 0 0% remedial waste trucks, trains, aircraft, ships, etc; and Subtotal 127,449 108,117 108,008 0% We have a goal to send zero waste to industrial • 4% of them were mobile, emissions that aren’t landfills from our compressor plants by the end of 2012 2013 2014 Hazardous Var. 2014 physically controlled but that result from GHG 2012 2013 2014 2018 and from the Foundry plant until 2022. waste (t) vs. 2013 release due to production, processing, transmission, Economic In 2014, we reduced our greenhouse gas storage and use of fuels and other chemicals. 306 308 312,279 1% recycling 97% of waste generated globally in our emissions by 7.9%. Environmental compressor plants is recycled. recycling 1,992 1,973 1,842 -7% More information on page 58. If we analyze the emissions generated by compressor Incineration 844 784 702 -11% plants and from other units (Electronics, Foundry, Landfill 967 704 549 -22% More information on page 60. Components), we observe the following relationship: Subtotal 4109 3,868 3,405 -12% Total 131,558 111,985 111,413 -0.5% SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 | 39 our principles message from management about this report our products and technologies profile and strategy corporate governance how we produce our products doing more with less our employees social investment adjacent information GRI index credits EMPLOYEES SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 | 40 our principles message from management about this report our products and technologies profile and strategy corporate governance how we produce our products doing more with less our employees social investment adjacent information GRI index credits Essential for the sustainability and consistency of the business, our employees are our most valuable asset. We count on a talented team, passionate for what they do and that’s why, we understand that our Extraordinary performance role is to provide these professionals all the tools Highly effective organization necessary for them to achieve extraordinary results. that consistently produces above expected results. We’re a global company, composed of professionals with different nationalities, genders, languages and New Leadership Model cultures. We value diversity and believe that this characteristic is a strong competitive differential and Our business is transforming, as well as behaviors, Our Leadership Model is based on: drives us to always innovate. actions and strategies that we need to put in place to • Live and Lead Embraco Values: our values are the continue shaping our market. These changes led us Great people base for what we do every day. They sustain the other Therefore, our strategic human resource to review our strategic architecture and vision, also Diverse and prepared talents attributes. management is based on the pillars: reflecting on the current Leadership Model. to be future leaders. For us, leadership is a key factor in the transformation, • Create an engaging and inspiring strategy: reinforce a privilege that must be earned every day. All our that our work is connected with the business strategy, employees are considered in the new model, since with a positive and innovative attitude. we believe that we are all leaders – whether of the • Attract and cultivate followers: reinforce the company, an area, other people or ourselves. commitment to developing the team and overcoming challenges. The Leadership Model is a guide that permeates all actions and indicates how to behave and act to have • Deliver differentiated results: reinforce ownership, Winning culture differentiated performance. Our belief is based on a decide with speed and responsibility. Internally and externally recognized as a great place to work. group of people acting with courage and passion for what they do, playing to win, developing their talents The strategic connection of the Leadership Model and leading with speed. All these factors are important with our business leads to People Excellence, to leverage the results of our business. ensuring competitive advantage and creating value. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 | 41 our principles message from management about this report our products and technologies profile and strategy corporate governance how we produce our products doing more with less our employees social investment adjacent information GRI index credits Profile of our workforce GRI G4-10 EMPLOYEES BY EMPLOYMENT CONTRACT China United States Italy Mexico Slovakia Brazil Russia On December 31, 2014, we had 12,678 Respecting labor relations F M F M F M F M F M F M F M employees, distributed in seven countries Definite time As a global company, we’re always vigilant to and as follows: 88 316 0 0 0 0 0 0 18 107 10 20 0 0 (temporary) comply with all local laws of the countries where Indefinite time 561 1,387 28 29 179 405 394 916 683 1,347 1,566 4,479 4 4 we have plants and/or sales offices. Employees Embraco global (permanent) China – 2.352 United States – 57 Interns 0 0 4 6 4 6 14 12 0 0 29 72 0 0 EMPLOYEES COVERED BY COLLECTIVE Italy – 594 Mexico – 1,336 Total 649 1,703 28 29 183 411 408 928 701 1,454 1,605 4,571 4 4 BARGAINING AGREEMENTS Brazil – 6,176 Russia – 8 GRI G4-11 Slovakia – 2,155 EMPLOYEES BY EMPLOYMENT TYPE Percentage of employees Unit China United States Italy Mexico Slovakia Brazil Russia covered F M F M F M F M F M F M F M Brazil 100% China 79% 4.7% United0.4% States Full workday (8h) 648 1,687 28 29 170 373 394 916 701 1,454 1,470 4,195 4 4 United States Not applicable* 10.5% 0.1% Without workday 1 16 0 0 13 38 14 12 0 0 135 376 0 0 Italy 100% control Total 649 1,703 28 29 183 411 408 928 701 1,454 1,605 4,571 4 4 Slovakia 100% Mexico 73% 17% 48.7% EMPLOYEES BY JOB CATEGORY China United States Italy Mexico Slovakia Brazil Russia * Our United States operation is run through a sales office and a warehouse, which – according to US legislation – doesn’t require a collective bargaining F M F M F M F M F M F M F M agreement. President and 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 6 0 0 Vice-presidents 18.6% Executive Board 0 1 0 0 0 3 0 1 0 1 1 21 0 0 United States China Italy Management 6 8 1 3 2 8 1 6 0 6 6 45 0 2 Russia Slovakia Leaders 22 30 3 6 6 13 10 21 5 25 21 70 1 1 Brazil Mexico Administrative 150 283 22 13 35 62 31 123 95 206 310 852 0 0 Operational 444 1,342 2 7 136 319 353 765 601 1,216 1,266 3,577 0 0 Others 27 38 0 0 4 6 14 12 0 0 0 0 3 1 Total 649 1,703 28 29 183 411 408 928 701 1,454 1,605 4,571 4 4 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 | 42 our principles message from management about this report our products and technologies profile and strategy corporate governance how we produce our products doing more with less our employees social investment adjacent information GRI index credits Multiculturalism GRI G4-10 We’re a global company, with operations in seven countries on four Disabled people continents. We believe that people who bring different experiences add new knowledge and different ways of seeing and understanding Since 2008 we’ve had the Talents of Diversity our business. Therefore, we understand that this plurality establishes Program, which offers vacancies in different an important competitive differential, whether internally, to transform sectors of Embraco and training courses for people our business, or externally, because we understand and attend our with disabilities, accelerating integration and customers’ diverse needs in different parts of the world. employability. So far, close to 250 people have been through the program, with an average of We value and celebrate Diversity in all our interactions, where the 60% of them being hired. synergy between the differences around common goals makes the company each time more prepared to act as an organization that’s in In addition to attracting and preparing disabled transformation, thinking and acting globally. people for the labor market, we seek to offer independence to this public, creating accessible Diversity permeates our entire business, culture and relationships and physical spaces, sign language courses and is seen as a management model, fundamental for making decisions translation along with internal awareness-raising. about people, processes, products and markets. In practice, this means Oliembraco more leadership involvement, building a diverse environment and In 2015, in line with our human resources strategy The traditional games of Embraco Internal Olympics accessible to all. and with this already established program, we (Oliembraco) arrived at its 27th edition in 2014. Held had an important evolution in hiring people since 1988, Oliembraco is an event that encourages We also believe that only transmitting and encouraging the with disabilities: now these people are allocated interaction and team spirit among our professionals idea of multiculturalism within the company isn’t enough. directly into the areas of the company, according and this year featured 23 male and 12 female Diversity management implies eliminating labels and prejudices, to the availability of vacancies as well as jobs sporting events twice the modalities disputed for in encouraging our professionals so they know and learn other and salaries compatible with the position. The the competition’s first edition. languages, exchanging experiences with employees from other goal is to ensure process flow, encourage their countries, among other initiatives to eliminate the idea of a qualification inside and outside Embraco and For nine months, 4,500 employees participated in sports dominant culture and encourage interaction and the exchange of ensure their development. tournaments such as soccer, volleyball, athletics, basketball know-how among people of different nationalities. and cycling, along with table games and even fishing. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 | 43 our principles message from management about this report our products and technologies profile and strategy corporate governance how we produce our products doing more with less our employees social investment adjacent information GRI index credits Disabled people GRI LA12 Paraoliembraco EMBRACO EMPLOYEES WITH DISABILITIES In 2014, the 8th edition of Paraoliembraco also United took place, one of our pioneering initiatives for Brazil* China Italy Slovakia Mexico Russia States professionals with disabilities. According to the Vice presidents, Brazilian Paralympics Committee, Embraco is the 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 directors and managers only company in Brazil that holds a dedicated Leaders 2 0 0 0 0 0 0 Paralympics for its internal public. Team 318 5 15 43 0 0 0 * Embraco Brazil plants don’t monitor diversity indicators for temporary employees. In May 2014, 150 employees competed in futsal games for the deaf, basketball and field tennis for people in wheelchairs, as well as bowling and BREAKDOWN OF VICE PRESIDENTS AND DIRECTORS BY AGE table games. One of this edition’s differential was United Brazil China Italy Slovakia Mexico Rússia States an accessibility fair that offered support services for people with disabilities. Up to 30 years 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 31 to 50 years 5 2 3 1 0 0 0 51 years and over 2 0 0 0 0 1 0 Total 7 2 3 1 0 1 0 PARTICIPATION OF WOMEN IN THE WORKFORCE United Brazil Pequim Qingdao Italy Slovakia Mexico Russia States Vice presidents, 10% 43% 0% 15% 0% 3% 0% 0% directors and managers Leaders 23% 42% 1% 32% 17% 17% 31% 50% Team 26% 18% 82% 31% 34% 20% 31% 75% SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 | 44 our principles message from management about this report our products and technologies profile and strategy corporate governance how we produce our products doing more with less our employees social investment adjacent information GRI index credits Attraction and retention Our primary people retention strategy is to analyze the potential of internal Dismissals were performed as follows: talents and invest in their development for more strategic positions. For this, we have a structured Succession Committee process, composed of leadership, DISMISSALS IN 2014 BY GENDER which assesses employees with the potential to take on leadership positions United within the company. Brazil China Italy Mexico Slovakia Russia States F M F M F M F M F M F M F M The Succession Committee’s process is constantly evolving and uses 9box 533 1,369 168 275 9 7 3 10 101 472 41 116 1 0 methodology, recognized by the market. Also, we have a similar process for Total 1,902 443 16 13 573 157 1 technical talents, who pass through a committee called Technical Talent Pool which identifies potential researchers who the company will invest in. In 2014, globally we hired 3,091 people and dismissed 2,796. Hirings were DISMISSALS IN 2014 BY AGE GROUP made as follows: United Brazil China Italy Mexico Slovakia Russia States < 30 years 1,168 278 0 1 104 42 1 30 and 50 668 132 12 6 152 79 0 years HIRINGS IN 2014 BY GENDER GRI G4 LA1 > 50 years 66 33 4 6 9 36 0 United Brazil China Italy Mexico Slovakia Russia States Total 1,902 443 16 13 265 157 1 F M F M F M F M F M F M F M 594 1,412 89 158 2 2 1 5 202 476 45 105 1 1 Total 2006 247 4 6 678 150 2 HIRINGS IN 2014 BY AGE GROUP Estados Brazil China Italy Mexico Slovakia Russia Unidos < 30 years 1,416 163 2 2 288 62 2 30 and 50 568 83 2 4 382 78 0 years > 50 years 22 1 0 0 8 10 0 Total 2,006 247 4 6 678 150 2 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 | 45 our principles message from management about this report our products and technologies profile and strategy corporate governance how we produce our products doing more with less our employees social investment adjacent information GRI index credits Trainee program To ensure our business’ sustainability, part of the strategy includes preparing leaders for the future. Accordingly, we have a global trainee program, carried out once a year in Brazil, Slovakia and China. Upon being selected, trainees have the opportunity to know different sectors and aspects of our business so that, throughout their career, are able to take on challenges in different areas. Local hiring GRI G4 EC6 Compensation Because of our culture of valuing diversity, we have a strong Our remuneration policy is to compensate people according to their participation of local leaders in the operation, which gives us a performance and their potential. To offer attractive remuneration, Profit sharing program cultural wealth for the teams. we have the support of consultants to know the latest market Since 1996 we’ve had a Profit Sharing Program practices with regard to remuneration and benefits offered. (PPR), created to motivate our employees to LOCAL HIRING To identify wage growth opportunities for our professionals, we use achieve extraordinary results and to constantly (LEADERSHIP POSITIONS*) internal performance measurement tools and steer all leaders to develop themselves. Plant 2012 2013 2014 look for internal promotion so as to, in this way, value the careers of Brazil 100% 100% 100% all talents. To remain updated, this program was revised in China (compressors) 86% 91% 100% 2013 and, from that year on, in addition to the RATIO OF THE LOWEST WAGE COMPARED TO LOCAL overall company goals, each area has to choose two China (electronics) 83% 60% 81% MINIMUM WAGE GRI G4 EC5 specific goals aligned with Embraco’s strategy. Italy 77% 91% 80% Unit % Slovakia 88% 100% 86% Brazil 132% Additionally, our PPR program includes an individual Mexico 2% 84% 63% portion – called Performance Award – that rewards China (compressors) 100% United States 66% 91% 0% employees according to their performance. China (electronics) 120% Russia N/D N/D 100% United States 186% *Leadership positions include: president, vice president, administrative, executive board and leaders. Italy 104% Slovakia 122% Mexico 157% SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 | 46 our principles message from management about this report our products and technologies profile and strategy corporate governance how we produce our products doing more with less our employees social investment adjacent information GRI index credits Benefits Professional development Our benefits policy expresses the care we take with Pension plan GRI G4 EC3 employees and the mission to provide them and their Plants in Brazil, Italy and China offer a pension plan Performance appraisal dependents a better quality of life. for their employees. In other countries where we operate there is no such benefit. We believe that as important as achieving the goals, is understanding In addition to strictly complying with local labor laws • Brazil: benefit based on the employee’s how to achieve them, so, we evaluate our professionals through in all the countries where we operate, we also have a nominal salary, who contributes 1%, while Extraordinary Performance & Results (EP&R), an evaluation model Sports Association, in Joinville (Brazil) – where our largest we contribute with the other part (varying structured in five dimensions: flow of workers is located – which is a local reference according to the professional’s age): for for leisure and sport, offering several activities for both • Results x goals employees with up to 44 years we offer employees as well as the community. • Work scope 1%; from the age group 45-54 years old, we offer 1.5%; and for those between 55• Leadership practices We also invest in developing our people through 60 years we offer 2%. At 60, the employee scholarships. This is a benefit for employees from • Adherence to Embraco’s culture receives his pension – it can be anticipated operational and administrative levels, which offers at 55 years of age or by disability at any • Personal and talent development financial assistance to those wishing to take technical time. In case of death, the pension is paid to and post-graduate courses. Thinking strategically, dependents. In some cases, we use – in addition to EP&R – 180 degree appraisal, scholarships always focus on the employee’s next • Italy: joining the pension plan is voluntary which consists of the employee’s self-assessment, his/her manager’s hierarchical level, so he can be ready for his next step in and is foreseen in collective agreements. assessment and his/her direct subordinate’s assessment. Embraco. In 2014, we granted 94 scholarships, globally, which contribute to high performance. The contribution is 1.4% (employees) and EMPLOYEES THAT RECEIVE PERFORMANCE ANALYSIS 4% (managers). We contribute with the GRI G4-22 | LA11 In addition, we continually invest in on-the-job training same value. and job rotation for employees from all our units, Plant 2013 2014 • China: has a statutory pension insurance for stimulating interaction among different cultures and F M F M all employees, and the contribution is 8% by ensuring professional development aligned to the Brazil 100% 100% 100% 100% the employee and 20% by us. company’s needs. China (compressors) 100% 100% 100% 100% China (electronics) 44% 56% 42% 58% Italy 30% 70% 30% 70% Slovakia 100% 100% 100% 100% Mexico 76% 24% 22% 78% United States 100%* 100%* 100% 100% * Different numbers of those reported in the 2013 Sustainability Report due to an Russia 100% 100% 100% 100% interpretation error of the indicator occurred in that year. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 | 47 our principles message from management about this report our products and technologies profile and strategy corporate governance how we produce our products doing more with less our employees social investment adjacent information GRI index credits Career compass W Career For us, improving our employees’ professional Our career process is the driving thread that growth is very important. That’s why, in 2014, we identifies people with the potential to take on developed and shared with our administrative greater responsibilities within our company. public the Career compass, a plan that centralizes, stimulates and directs all individual development. In addition, we enable our employees to develop the technical side (specific competences) along with the Each one of our employees is responsible for his/ behavioral side (see Leadership Model). Both impact PROJECT her Career compass, in partnership with his/her on their performance and growth potential. ADMINISTRATIVE TECHNIQUE LEADERSHIP manager. With it, it’s possible to establish specific plans to: ensure professional development; build People who have a greater focus on specific important competences needed for the current competences can follow the technical career. While position and/or future positions; identify passions those who opt for behavioral development, follow and strengths as well as plan ways to use them at the administrative career (leadership development). work; create specific plans to achieve career goals, If our employees desire both of them, their path defining the desired position and then direct future within Embraco will be project leadership or and specific positions and/or experiences to achieve technical leadership. We call the set of these three them; put the development plan into action. options W Career. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 | 48 our principles message from management about this report our products and technologies profile and strategy corporate governance how we produce our products doing more with less our employees social investment adjacent information GRI index credits Leadership Academy Corporate education After mapping the skills desired in each leadership position, in 2014, we After the restructuring process of our Corporate began providing – through the people development model – the necessary Education model in 2013, when we began working tools so that our leaders can lead their teams to great results. more focused on a People Training Strategic Model and engaging leadership, in 2014, we focus on The Leadership Academy, a long term global development program designed developing our people through the following ways: to offer solutions to our leaders at different levels. • Technology: use tools such as internet, podcasting, videos, e-learning to take In 2014, 338 employees participated in the Leadership Academy, corporate education to our employees; which offered more than 5,000 hours of training. • Relationship: employ practices such as coaching, feedback, mentoring, among others, Engagement research to bring our employees to our culture; • Classroom: offer scholarships, classes, Conducted annually, our Engagement Survey brings many contributions seminars and trainings in a classroom setting to our leadership’s development, who has their strengths and weaknesses to develop our talents; and mapped and received individual feedback on their skills and on how to contribute so that Embraco has better results. It also helps us to measure • Practice: conduct workshops, benchmark the level of engagement that our employees possess. studies, job rotations to bring more references to our professionals. AVERAGE NUMBER OF TRAINING HOURS GRI LA9 China China (Beijing) United States Italy Mexico Slovakia Brazil (Qingdao) F M F M F M F M F M F M F M Executives 0 5 48 49 24 24 187 70 57 57 127 994 0.19 0.73 Middle management 10 10 66 79 0 0 56 61 45 45 496 3,259 0.23 0.57 Team 22 5 36 44 0 0 46 46 36 36 6,812 22,787 2.82 6.25 By employee 20 5 38 44 0 0 96 57 36 36 11 18 2.31 4.91 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 | 49 our principles message from management about this report our products and technologies profile and strategy corporate governance how we produce our products doing more with less our employees social investment adjacent information GRI index credits Health and safety Our employees’ safety is a very relevant issue for The Golden Rules have existed since 2010 us. Therefore, in 2014 and 2015, we reaffirmed our and are based on the leading practices, legal commitment to zero accidents by updating and requirements, global procedures and knowledge Behavior-Based Safety GLOBAL BBS NUMBERS strengthening communication about our Safety acquired by us, defined to guide daily behavior Feedbacks received by Feedbacks received by Golden Rules, globally. In addition to making them in all activities performed by our employees, To avoid accidents we’ve adopted globally the use of Region employees in 2013 employees in 2014 broader, we simplified them, and brought them suppliers and visitors. the tool Behavior-Based Safety (BBS), a program that Brazil 214,134 164,940 closer to employees’ daily lives, ensuring their seeks to build a safe environment in the workplace China 115,798 88,397 understanding and adoption of safe behaviors. through observation of the professionals’ behavior and Italy 10,165 2,653 feedbacks. Slovakia 119,649 95,876 Mexico 26,206 28,461 BBS is based on three main elements: United States 755 428 Observations and conversations proposed by BBS allow EECON BR 2,223 530 us to observe best safe behavior practices and also EECON CN 17,438 14,485 listen to our professionals and understand the cause of TOTAL 506,368 395,770 risky behavior. This way we can give positive feedback to reinforce the importance of working safely and guide employees to have increasingly safe behavior. We also developed a global assessment project of all installed machinery in order to increase the safety of our manufacturing In 2014, through BBS, more than 390,000 positive processes. Besides enabling the exchange of best practices feedbacks were given to our employees. among plants to find a solution to any eventual problems, this initiative seeks to standardize best practices in Health and Safety management. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 | 50 our principles message from management about this report our products and technologies profile and strategy corporate governance how we produce our products doing more with less our employees social investment adjacent information GRI index credits CIPA Other health and safety initiatives Indicators Our units in Brazil count on – besides BBS – the In addition to the initiatives described above, we In 2014, we maintained our injury rate, reduced our occupational Internal Commission for Accident Prevention carried out other efforts to reduce the number of illness rate and increased our days away for accident rate, as (CIPA), composed of Embraco employees and incidents. They are: shown in the following table: which comply with the Regulatory Standard 5 • Campaigns on safety, health and environment (NR-5) of the Brazilian Ministry of Labor. focused on awareness of professionals working in HEALTH AND SAFETY GRI G4 LA6 our operations, addressing topics such as: World Days away In 2014, we had 32 “cipeiros” –as the accident Occupational Day for Safety and Health at Work and World No Injury rate rate for prevention commission members are called – illness rate accidents Smoking Day; who carry out procedures focused on safety such 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 as monthly meetings, inspections, participation • Continuity and consolidation of machinery Brazil (compressors in improvement groups, running campaigns, protection project (machine guarding); 1.18 1.17 0.04 0.00 2.28 2.76 and offices) internal work accident prevention week and the China (compressors) 0.37 0.32 0.00 0.00 0.00 4.75 • Participation of the EHS area in all project environment (SIPATMA), among other activities. development stages and machinery purchases China (electronics) 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 in all units, establishing the necessary deliveries Italy (compressors) 0.51 0.00 0.00 0.00 17.67 0.00 for proper risk management as well as seeking Slovakia (compressors) 2.49 0.21 0.00 0.00 6.21 7.45 an environment free of injuries and United States 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 environmental harm. Mexico (compressors) 0.75 0.61 0.00 0.00 2.67 3.41 • Creation/revision of global standards for various Brazil (electronics) 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 elements of the EHS system such as Working Components 0.70 0.8 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 at Heights, Preparedness and Response to Foundry 3.11 0.48 0.00 0.00 7.76 0.00 Emergencies and Confined Spaces. Total Embraco global 0.72 0.72 0.02 0.00 2.69 3.68 For 2015, EHS’ goal remains, to avoid accidents and ensure the safety of all our employees. 2. Em Português: Saúde, Segurança e Meio Ambiente. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 | 51 our principles message from management about this report our products and technologies profile and strategy corporate governance how we produce our products doing more with less our employees social investment adjacent information GRI index credits SOCIAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 | 52 our principles message from management about this report our products and technologies profile and strategy corporate governance how we produce our products doing more with less our employees social investment adjacent information GRI index credits GRI G4 EC8 | SO1 We believe that we have an important role in all the communities where we operate, because together we’re able to transform realities. Accordingly, we make every effort to engage our employees in social projects that bring benefits to people that live near our plants and offices around the globe. In 2014, aligned to our global social investment policy, we planned Embraco Ecology Award and executed various social projects that contributed to the wellbeing of more than 37,000 people in the community. During this In 2014, we held the 22nd edition of the Embraco In addition to the monetary value, the Embraco period, we invested US$ 245,008 and offered 10,294 hours of Ecology Award, which aims at fostering environmental Ecology Award offers support to the winners’ activities, community service, with actions such as Embraco Ecology Award – education between public and private schools in the such as monthly monitoring of projects by consultants which this year reached its 22nd edition – the Embraco Volunteer city of Joinville, Santa Catarina (Brazil). Through specialized in Environmental Education, training program and Global Volunteer Day. Actions like this generate this award, we seek to stimulate the municipality’s workshops for the projects’ coordinating team in competitive advantage for us and contribute to build a better community to think of ways to use less water and schools, visits by Embraco to check the projects’ business and a better world. energy, improve acoustic comfort, among other progress and to publish the bimonthly magazine called solutions that benefit the environment. Ambiente-se, which aims to disseminate the actions that are being implemented by schools. PRIVATE SOCIAL INVESTMENT (US$) The award is divided into the categories Action Unit 2012 2013 2014 and Transformation, with the winners receiving, For more information on the Award access the Brazil 241,402 190,710 149,858 respectively, R$ 8,000 and R$ 24,000 to develop blog www.premioembracoecologia.wordpress.com United States 2,550 8,700 2,025 their project. In the last edition five institutions were or our site. Slovakia 52,198 62,173 59,034 awarded: China 7,103 6,600 7,403 Action category: Mexico 1,500 14,500 15,544 • CEI Amandos Finder Italy 91,228 2,533 11,144 • CEI Infantil Estrelinha Brilhante TOTAL 395,982 285,216 245,008 • CEI Meu Pequeno Mundo • CEI Miosótis Transformation category: • CEI Espinheiros SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 | 53 our principles message from management about this report our products and technologies profile and strategy corporate governance how we produce our products doing more with less our employees social investment adjacent information GRI index credits Global Volunteer Day Global Volunteer Day is a global event that seeks to value the beauty of the communities and, through volunteer work, aims to transform reality by constructing a dream. Using the Oasis methodology, we try to understand what the main needs of the communities in which we operate are, assessing what actions can be carried out. The program encourages our employees to set aside one or two days a year to work in a specific place, doing different activities that directly benefit the population. In 2014, the activities carried out included: Joinville Itaiópolis Held at the Mayor Luiz Gomes Municipal School, volunteers About 70 people (of these, 52 are our • China: more than 50 volunteers helped the local community built an educational garden in the shape of a Mandala, painted employees) participated in actions in Angels paint and renovate walls and organize inventory. the facade, the walls, pillars, benches, handrails, among of Tomorrow Municipal School. The volunteers’ other things, cleaned up the facades and interior spaces, and activities included gardening, garden and fence • Slovakia: our more than 60 volunteers made improvements in revitalized green spaces such as gardens, playgrounds and maintenance along with painting different the Slovak Paradise National Park, such as renovating the water parking lot. items, building a doll house, cleaning the spring and garbage collection. The goal is to make it a more school internally and externally, creating a TV attractive and comfortable place for tourists. In 2013, it was The action counted on 120 people on the first day and 180 and reading room from recyclable materials, visited by approximately 3400 people. the second, the vast majority of them Embraco employees building a storage area for scrap materials. – which together with the school personnel, parents and • Mexico: we worked in the Guadalupe Zuno Arce elementary students carried out the proposed activities. In addition to school, by restoring benches and concrete tables, restoring volunteers, the event had the support of government agencies water drains, water pumps and lighting, among other activities. and companies which provided supplies and equipment. Also, we conducted 5S training for teachers. Approximately 30 employees participated in the action. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 | 54 our principles message from management about this report our products and technologies profile and strategy corporate governance how we produce our products doing more with less our employees social investment adjacent information GRI index credits Environmental Network Social Investment in Slovakia In 2014, we were part of, for the second consecutive year, the Embraco Environmental Network, a shared In Slovakia, four elementary schools and four initiative with the government, public schools and kindergartens from the Spisska Nova Ves district private entities, and developed for children and received financial support for their projects carried youths from the municipality of Itaiópolis (SC, Brazil), out which had as the theme Ideas for Volunteering to create actions that contribute to building a more (the projects from these schools received the sustainable world. Embraco Ecology Award). In this second edition, more than 3,500 students from Among the projects that stood out is the “eco17 institutions were involved in the project, which handcrafts” – which included traditional farming, had as themes School Gardens As Educating Spaces beekeeping and soap production – a project that and Consumer Awareness. Students participated in aims to eliminate the plants that cause allergies educational activities and were involved in programs from a particular neighborhood, and an initiative such as Health in Schools and Selective Trash to restore a chapel. Collection (both of government origin). To support the children and youths, consultants specialized in environmental education were appointed and learning “OUR CITY” meetings and training activities were conducted – such as lectures and workshops. During two days in June, 192 volunteers (among them 40 Embraco During the work, the schools sent a monthly report employees) carried out several actions with the activities developed – published in the blog to benefit 13 cities in Slovakia. Among https://redeambientalitaiopolis.wordpress.com – and the voluntary actions conducted by Our at the end of the year, there was a closing event, which City’s 4th edition – event of voluntary aimed to share experiences and integrate participants, actions that has Embraco’s support – and a recipe book was released on the Network, fences were painted and trees planted published and made available by us to all Network by people with disabilities. participating educational institutions. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 | 55 our principles message from management about this report our products and technologies profile and strategy corporate governance how we produce our products doing more with less our employees social investment adjacent information GRI index credits ADJACENT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 | 56 our principles message from management about this report our products and technologies profile and strategy corporate governance how we produce our products doing more with less our employees social investment adjacent information GRI index credits Direct and indirect global ENERGY CONSUMPTION (GJ) COMPRESSOR UNITS energy consumption China Italy Slovakia Brazil Mexico Total GRI G4 EN3 EN4 Direct energy 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 Natural gas 68,606 57028,93 52,841 43,025 114,796 112,255 206,330 205,662 39,276 60,286 481,849 478,256 LPG 0 0 0 0 0 0 5,880 5,286 0 0 5,880 5,286 Methanol 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 444 0 0 0 444 Diesel oil 220 0 0 20 2,006 651 1,926 1,849 37 37 4,189 2,556 Gasoline 1,449 0 0 0 1,801 0 131 164 2 2 3,383 166 Propane 0 0 0 0 0 22 0 0 0 0 0 22 Ethanol 0 11,0143 0 0 0 21 0 0 0 0 0 32 Kerosene 0 70,686 0 0 0 27 0 82 0 0 0 181 Subtotal 70,275 57,111 52,841 43,044 118,603 112,975 214,267 213,486 39,315 60,326 495,301 486,941 Indirect energy 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 Electricity 110,224 97,660 43,412 36,358 126,749 125,372 361,046 377,045 56,451 76,613 697,883 713,047 TOTAL 110,224 97,660 43,412 36,358 126,749 125,372 361,046 377,045 56,451 76,613 697,883 713,047 ENERGY CONSUMPTION (GJ) – OTHER UNITS Components Foundry Brazil (electronics) China (electronics) United States Total Direct energy 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 Natural gas 0 0 12,105 11,572 0 0 0 0 2,003 2,254 14,108 13,826 LPG 4,235 4,447 3,367 3,647 0 0 0 0 0 0 7,602 8,094 Methanol 393 418 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 393 418 Diesel oil 22 30 1,168 175 0 0 0 0 0 0 1,190 204 Gasoline 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Propane 4,109 4,258 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 266 4,109 4,524 Ethanol 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Kerosene 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Subtotal 8,759 9,153 16,640 15,393 0 0 0 0 2,003 2,520 27,402 27,066 Indirect energy 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 Electricity 14,971 16,864 218,836 220,485 6,733 6,050 6,044 6,186 1,822 1,192 248,405 250,778 TOTAL 14,971 16,864 218,836 220,485 6,733 6,050 6,044 6,186 1,822 1,192 248,405 250,778 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 | 57 our principles message from management about this report our products and technologies profile and strategy corporate governance how we produce our products doing more with less our employees social investment adjacent information GRI index credits Emissions Water consumption GRI G4 EN8 GHG EMISSIONS (tCO2)* – COMPRESSOR UNITS WATER CONSUMPTION (M3) COMPRESSOR UNITS China Italy Slovakia Brazil Mexico Total China Brazil Italy Slovakia Mexico Total 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 Direct emissions 5,408 4,300 2,954 2,366 7,213 6,214 17,335 18,102 2,143 3,324 35,053 34,306 Wells 0 0 139,631 106,907 30,298 17,481 0 0 0 0 169,929 124,388 Indirect emissions 30,682 16,277 5,831 4,878 8,872 8,776 9,650 14,122 9,408 10,619 64,444 54,672 Water supply 118,336 109,108 73,037 92,837 10,743 7,318 86,688 84,430 76,282 85,583 365,085 379,276 networks Total 36,091 20,577 8,785 7,224 16,085 14,990 26,985 32,224 11,551 13,944 99,497 88,958 Total 118,336 109,108 212,668 199,744 41,041 24,799 86,688 84,430 76,282 85,583 535,014 503,664 GHG EMISSIONS (tCO2)* – OTHER UNITS WATER CONSUMPTION (M3) OTHER UNITS Components Foundry China (electronics) United States Total Brazil China Components Foundry United States Total (electronics) (electronics) 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 Direct emissions 563 576 1,009 920 0 69 0 4 1,619 1,568 Wells 11,238 5,196 88,524 77,614 0 0 3,757 0 0 0 103,519 82,810 Indirect emissions 400 637 5,856 8,287 1,683 1,258 316 207 8,436 10,389 Water supply Total 964 1,214 6,865 9,207 1,683 1,327 316 211 10,056 11,958 4,040 7,257 11,126 19,286 2,240 1,447 0 3,566 3,243 0,05 20,649 31,556 networks Total 15,278 12,453 99,650 96,900 2,240 1,447 3,757 3,566 3,243 0,05 124,168 114,366 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 | 58 our principles message from management about this report our products and technologies profile and strategy corporate governance how we produce our products doing more with less our employees social investment adjacent information GRI index credits Water discharge GRI G4 EN22 Water reuse GRI G4 DISCHARGE OF EFFLUENTS (M3) COMPRESSOR UNITS WATER REUSE IN 2014 (M3) – COMPRESSORS UNITS Brazil Italy Mexico Slovakia China Total China Brazil Italy Slovakia Mexico Total 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 Total volume 29,486 152,091 0 0 38,935 220,512 Return to % reused 21.28 43.23 0 0 31.27 30.45 146,782 105,868 38,989 0 0 0 79,345 79392 50,869 0 315,985 185,260 collection point Public sewage 0 0 0 0 0 52,231 0 0 0 52,521 0 104,752 system WATER REUSE IN 2014 (M3) – OTHER UNITS Evaporation 28,343 28,145 2,052 0 1,086 27,471 0 0 0 14,996 31,481 70,612 Brazil China Components Foundry United States Total (electronics) (electronics) Irrigation 38,972 38,702 0 0 217 24,968 0 0 0 29,486 39,189 93,156 Total volume 0 23,185 0 0 0 23,185 Total 214,097 172,715 41,041 0 1,303 104,670 79,345 79,392 50,869 97,003 386,655 453,780 % reused 0 19.31 0 0 0 16.83 DISCHARGE OF EFFLUENTS (M3) – OTHER UNITS Brazil China Components Foundry Total Total (electronics) (electronics) 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 Return to 8,601 8498 63,777 42734 2,240 0 3,757 0 78,375 51,232 315,985 185,260 collection point Public sewage 0 0 0 0 0 1,447 0 3,566 0 5,013 0 104,752 system Evaporation 1,035 996 12,265 12,009 0 0 0 0 13,300 13,005 31,481 70,612 Irrigation 3,364 3,237 3,679 22,818 0 0 0 0 7,044 26,055 39,189 93,156 Total 13,001 12,731 79,721 77,561 2,240 1,447 3,757 3,566 98,719 95,305 386,655 453,780 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 | 59 our principles message from management about this report our products and technologies profile and strategy corporate governance how we produce our products doing more with less our employees social investment adjacent information GRI index credits Non-hazardous and hazardous waste GRI G4 EN23 | EN25 TOTAL WASTE (t) COMPRESSOR UNITS TOTAL WASTE (T) – OTHER UNITS Non-hazardous China Brazil Italy Slovakia Mexico Total Brazil China Non-hazardous Components Foundry United States Total waste (electronics) (electronics) 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 waste 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 Economic recycling 7,914 5,277 50,168 51,219 5,006 3,443 19,701 19,767 6,150 8,676 88,939 88,382 Economic recycling 707 753 126 196 0 0 18 46 0 0 851 994 Environmental 229 168 73 535 544 403 2 139 726 739 1,574 1,984 recycling Environmental 48 41 2 0 1 100 0 0 0 1 51 142 recycling Incineration 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Incineration 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Landfill 842 883 1,317 1,154 7 128 563 513 70 121 2,799 2,799 Landfill 60 33 13,840 13,611 1 7 2 2 0 54 13,903 13,707 Construction/ 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 remedial waste Subtotal 815 827 13,968 13,806 2 107 20 48 0 55 14,805 14,843 Subtotal 8,985 6,328 51,558 52,908 5,557 3,974 20,266 20,418 6,946 9,536 93,312 93,165 Hazardous waste 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 Hazardous waste 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 Economic recycling 13 22 3 0 83 0 0 0 0 0 99 22 Economic recycling 23 16 226 226 0 0 52 49 0 0 301 291 Environmental 4 4 3 2 0 0 0 0 0 0 7 6 recycling Environmental 6 1 61 67 23 49 1,705 1,687 151 33 1,946 1,837 recycling Incineration 6 4 19 13 0 0 2 13 0 0 27 31 Incineration 32 68 635 550 0 0 0 0 60 52 727 671 Landfill 6 4 51 40 0 5 0 0 0 0 57 50 Landfill 58 0 78 92 219 89 291 226 58 91 704 499 Subtotal 29 34 76 56 83 5 2 13 0 0 190 108 Subtotal 119 85 1,000 935 242 139 2,048 1,962 269 176 3,678 3,297 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 | 60 our principles message from management about this report our products and technologies profile and strategy corporate governance how we produce our products doing more with less our employees social investment adjacent information GRI index credits GRI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 | 61 our principles message from management about this report our products and technologies profile and strategy corporate governance how we produce our products doing more with less our employees social investment adjacent information GRI index credits PROFILE PROFILE Ref. Description Direct response or indication on page Ref. Description Direct response or indication on page PROFILE 1. STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS 3. IDENTIFIED MATERIAL ASPECTS AND LIMITS Statement from the most senior decision-maker about G4-17 List of entities included in the financial statements Due to strategic reasons, this information is not disclosed G4-1 Message from management the relevance of sustainability to the organization G4-18 Process to define report content and boundary About this Report G4-2 Description of key impacts, risks and opportunities Principles that unite and define us List of material aspects identified in the content G4-19 About this Report 2. ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE definition process G4-3 Name of the organization Profile and strategy G4-20 Limit of each material aspect for the organization About this Report G4-4 Primary brands, products, and/or services Profile and strategy G4-21 Limit of each material aspect outside the organization About this Report G4-5 Location of organization’s headquarters Profile and strategy Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of G4-22 Doing more with less / Our employees G4-6 Number of countries where the organization operates Profile and strategy information provided in earlier reports G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form Whirlpool S.A. compressor unit Significant changes from previous reporting periods in G4-23 About this Report G4-8 Markets served Profile and strategy the scope, limit of aspects addressed G4-9 Scale of the organization Profile and strategy 4. STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT G4-10 Profile of the workforce Answered in text List of stakeholder groups engaged by the G4-24 About this Report Percentage of employees covered by collective organization G4-11 Respecting labor relations Basis used to identify and select stakeholders for bargaining G4-25 About this Report G4-12 Description of company's supply chain Suppliers engagement Significant structural changes during the reporting Approach adopted by the company to engage G4-13 Profile and strategy G4-26 About this Report period stakeholders and frequency of engagement Externally developed economic, environmental, and Main topics raised during the stakeholder G4-15 social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which Our commitment to the planet G4-27 engagement and measures adopted by the company About this Report the organization subscribes or endorses to address them Significant participation in advocacy associations 5. PROFILE OF REPORT and/or national/international entities in which the G4-28 Reporting period About this Report organization: has seats in groups responsible for G4-29 Date of most recent previous report About this Report G4-16 Fostering our sector’s development corporate governance; participates in projects or G4-30 Reporting cycle About this Report committees; contributes with substantive funding G4-31 Contact data for questions regarding the report Credits beyond the basic rate as an associated organization Option for applying (core or comprehensive) GRI index G4-32 This report complies with the G4 Core option Guideline guidelines and external verification SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 | 62 our principles message from management about this report our products and technologies profile and strategy corporate governance how we produce our products doing more with less our employees social investment adjacent information GRI index credits PROFILE PROFILE Ref. Description Direct response or indication on page Ref. Description Direct response or indication on page 6. GOVERNANCE 7. ETHICS AND INTEGRITY G4-34 Governance structure, including committees Corporate Governance Organizational values, principles, standards and norms G4-56 Mission, vision and values Consultation processes used between stakeholders of behavior, such as conduct and ethics codes and the highest governance body in regard to Whirlpool S.A. holds an annual meeting with its All our employees can find on the Intranet the Code of economic, environmental and social topics. If the shareholders. Additionally, it also has a permanent Ethics, global compliance policies and a Question and G4-37 Internal and external mechanisms adopted by the consultation is delegated to other structures, organs communication channel available, which can be accessed Answer section on the subject. In addition, the Legal organization to seek guidance on ethical behavior or persons, indicating the existing feedback processes by the site, by phone and by email. G4-57 office, Human Resources area and managers of each and in accordance with the law, such as relationship to the highest governance body area are always accessible, being a point of reference channels (ex .: ombudsman) Composition of the highest governance body and its in providing information about behavior, if and when G4-38 Corporate Governance committees by: requested. Indicate whether the president of the highest Internal and external mechanisms adopted by G4-39 Not applicable The company establishes different channels to receive governance body is also an executive officer the organization to communicate concerns about any report. Each employee can report their concerns Selection and appointment processes to the highest unethical behavior or incompatible with the All members of our governance bodies are elected directly to upper management, to HR or legal. In addition, governance body and its committees, including G4-58 legislation and issues related to organizational according to the Bylaws and local law. As selection Embraco’s units have boxes where information written G4-40 whether factors such as diversity, independence, integrity, such as routing concerns by the hierarchical criteria competences and knowledge about the company on a paper can be deposited anonymously. You can learn knowledge and experiences and involvement of pathways, mechanisms to report irregularities and and its business are taken into account. more information on page 22. stakeholders (including shareholders) are considered complaint channels Processes of the highest governance body to ensure G4-41 Ethics and transparency prevention and management of conflicts of interest Organ or position of the highest level that analyzes and formally approves the organization’s sustainability G4-48 Vice Presidency of Communication and Sustainability report and ensures that all material aspects are addressed Whirlpool S.A. holds an annual meeting with its Process used to communicate critical concerns to the shareholders. Additionally, this public has a permanent G4-49 highest governance body. communication channel available, which can be accessed by the site, by phone and by email. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 | 63 our principles message from management about this report our products and technologies profile and strategy corporate governance how we produce our products doing more with less our employees social investment adjacent information GRI index credits PERFORMANCE PERFORMANCE Ref. Description Direct response or indication on page Ref. Description Direct response or indication on page ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE Monetary value of significant fines and total number In 2014 we didn’t receive fines for noncompliance with Coverage of pension plan obligations defined that the EN29 of non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance with EC3 People who make Embraco environmental laws and regulations. organization offers environmental laws and regulations Variation in proportion of lowest wage compared to Environmental criteria are contained in our code of EC5 Answered in text Percentage of new suppliers selected based on local minimum wage in significant operational units. EN32 conduct. 100% of our suppliers are adhering to the environmental criteria Proportion of upper management hired from the local document. EC6 Answered in text community in significant operating units Number of complaints and grievances related to In 2014 we didn’t receive complaints and/or claims Significant indirect economic impacts, including the EN34 environmental impacts filed, processed and resolved EC8 Private Social Investment related to environmental impacts. extent of impacts through a formal mechanism ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL: LABOR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK Doing more with less energy / Total and rates of new hires of employees and EN3 Energy consumption inside the organization LA1 People that make Embraco Direct and indirect global energy consumption turnover by age group, gender and region Doing more with less energy / Percentage of workforce represented in formal health EN4 Energy consumption outside the organization Brazil units have 92 CIPA members, 40 in the compressor Direct and indirect global energy consumption and safety committees, consisting of employees from LA5 unit, 14 in the foundry, 22 in the component plant and 16 EN5 Energy intensity Doing more with less energy different hierarchical levels, which help monitor and in the electronics plant. More information on page 50. orientate health and safety programs at work EN6 Reduction of energy consumption Doing more with less energy Rates of injury, occupational illnesses, days away, Reductions in energy requirements related to products EN7 Energy efficiency LA6 absenteeism and work-related fatalities by region and Indicators and services gender EN8 Total water withdrawal by source Doing more with less water / Water consumption Percentage and total volume of water recycled and EN10 Water reuse reused Indirect emissions of greenhouse gases (GHG) from EN16 Doing more with less emissions / Emissions the acquisition of energy (Scope 2) Total water discharge, broken down by quality and EN22 Water discharge / Water discharge destination Total weight of waste, broken down by type and Doing more with less waste / EN23 disposal method Non-hazardous and hazardous waste Weight of waste transported, imported, exported or treated deemed hazardous under the Basel Doing more with less waste / EN25 Convention, Annexes I, II, III and VIII, and percentage Non-hazardous and hazardous waste of waste transported internationally Percentage of products and their packaging recovered EN28 in relation to the total products sold, by product Nat.Genius category SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 | 64 our principles message from management about this report our products and technologies profile and strategy corporate governance how we produce our products doing more with less our employees social investment adjacent information GRI index credits PERFORMANCE PERFORMANCE Ref. Description Direct response or indication on page Ref. Description Direct response or indication on page Brazil: Composition of groups responsible for corporate Every employee, after a 60 day INSS leave period, has job governance and breakdown of employees by category, LA12 Diversity stability according to the company’s union agreement. according to gender, age group, minorities and other diversity indicators Beijing: Criteria relating to labor practices are contained in our Percentage of new suppliers selected based on criteria The company must ensure working conditions and health LA14 code of conduct. 100% of our suppliers are adhering to relating to labor practices and safety facilities in accordance with Chinese standards the document. and provide personal protective equipment (PPE) for We have no evidence of negative impacts regarding labor employees. Real significant negative and potential impacts for practices in our supply chain. However, we are mapping LA15 labor practices in the supply chain and measures all suppliers that may receive some sort of material from Slovakia: taken in this regard a conflict zone. Agreement issues are: legal requirements for safety, such SOCIAL: HUMAN RIGHTS as the evaluation of PPE and uniforms depending on risk; Themes related to health and safety covered by Percentage and total number of significant LA8 periodic medical examination according to the workplace; formal agreements with unions investment contracts that include clauses on human periodic protection training against fire safety; and HR1 Suppliers rights or that have undergone screening on human periodic meeting with representative safety members (43 rights employees). In 2014 there were six formal cases in our plant in Total number of incidents of discrimination and Mexico. They were reported through our reporting Mexico: HR3 actions taken channel and were properly analyzed by the Ethics The company must ensure and provide equipment for Committee. personal protection as well as all conditions for Health Operations identified as having significant risk for and Safety mentioned in the federal labor legislation We have no evidence of operations with significant risk of HR5 incidents of child labor, and measures taken to child labor occurrence. contribute to eliminating child labor United States: Operations identified as having significant risk for In 2014 there were no occurrences like this, however we There is a process to ensure that all employees comply incidents of forced or slave-like labor and measures are mapping together with our appliance unit the entire with federal regulations regarding health and safety. HR6 taken to contribute to the elimination of forced or supply chain to ensure eradication of this form of slaveEmbraco provides all PPE and health insurance. slave-like labor like and slave labor. Average hours of training per year per employee, LA9 Corporate education Percentage of new suppliers selected based on criteria broken down by gender and job category HR10 Suppliers relating to human rights Competence and continuous learning management We offer different training options for our employees, Real significant negative and potential impacts on There were no evidenced real or potential cases with LA10 programs that support the continued employability of however, none of them is focused on preparing for HR11 human rights in the supply chain and measures taken regard to human rights in the supply chain during the employees in preparation for retirement retirement. in this regard period covered by the report. Percentage of employees receiving regular LA11 performance and career development analysis, broken Professional development down by gender and job category SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 | 65 our principles message from management about this report our products and technologies profile and strategy corporate governance how we produce our products doing more with less our employees social investment adjacent information GRI index credits PERFORMANCE PERFORMANCE Ref. Description Direct response or indication on page Ref. Description Direct response or indication on page SOCIAL: SOCIETY PR5 Results of customer satisfaction survey Customers Percentage of operations with implemented local Total number of incidents of non-compliance with In 2014 there were no cases of non-compliance SO1 community engagement, impact assessments, and Social investment regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing PR7 with regulations and voluntary codes concerning development programs communications, including advertising, promotion and communication. Total number and percentage of operations assessed sponsorship by type of outcomes SO3 for risks related to corruption and the significant risks Combating corruption Total number of substantiated complaints regarding In 2014 there were no cases of non-compliance regarding PR8 identified breaches of customer privacy and customer data loss the violation of privacy and customer data loss. All newly hired employees receive training on global Monetary value of fines (significant) for nonIn 2014 we did not receive fines for non-compliance with Communication and training on anti-corruption SO4 compliance policies that include issues related to combat PR9 compliance with laws and regulations concerning the laws and regulations concerning the supply and use of policies and procedures corruption. supply and use of products and services products and services. In 2014, there were no reported cases of corruption in our SO5 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken units. Total value of political contributions by country and We did not contribute financially to political parties in SO6 recipient/beneficiary 2014. Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive SO7 behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their In 2014 we did not receive lawsuits of this nature. outcomes Monetary value of significant fines and total number For strategic and legal reasons Embraco does not report SO8 of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with this indicator. laws and regulations Number of grievances about impacts on society filed, In 2014 no complaints and claims of this nature were SO11 addressed, and resolved through formal grievance recorded. mechanisms SOCIAL: PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY Percentage of categories of significant products and PR1 services where impacts on health and security are Product safety assessed, seeking improvements Type of information on products and services required PR3 by labeling procedures, and the percentage of Product labeling products and services subject to such requirements SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 | 66 our principles message from management about this report our products and technologies profile and strategy corporate governance how we produce our products doing more with less our employees social investment adjacent information GRI index credits CREDITS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 | 67 our principles message from management about this report our products and technologies profile and strategy corporate governance how we produce our products doing more with less our employees social investment adjacent information GRI index credits CREDITS GRI G4-31 General coordination Embraco – Corporate Communication and Sustainability Writing, GRI Consulting, Layout, Review and Production RICCA RI Photos EMBRACO ARCHIVE Embraco Corporate Communications and Sustainability Rua Rui Barbosa, 1.020, caixa postal 91 CEP: 89219-901 Joinville – Santa Catarina, Brazil. If there are doubts, suggestions or comments about the content of the report, contact us by email comunicacao@embraco.com. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 | 68
