United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress Message from the CEO At the William Demant Group, we have actively supported the UN Global Compact initiative since spring 2010. This is our fifth Communication on Progress report, summarising how, on a global scale, we embrace, support and act upon the principles of human rights, labour rights, environmental protection and anti-corruption. The requirements of the Global Compact initiative provide a solid framework for corporate social responsibility (CSR). We are confident that by using this globally recognised framework for reporting our policies, activities and results, we will be able to further systematise our efforts. CSR lies within our natural sphere of interest formed by the Group’s ownership structure and our products in hearing healthcare. Therefore, we welcome this chance to systematise the reporting on how we embrace social, environmental and ethical challenges within and beyond our legal obligations. Already, the UN Global Compact initiative is incorporated into our mission statement, which states: All Group companies seek to promote a stimulating and rewarding working environment through a flexible, knowledge-based organisational structure. Moreover, the Group is committed to high standards of ethics, quality and fairness and is dedicated to meeting its environmental and social responsibilities. We will continue to be committed to support the Global Compact initiative and its principles, by issuing an annual publication on our work with CSR, the Communication on Progress. Niels Jacobsen President & Chief Executive Officer February 2015 Page 2 of 16 United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress for 2014 26 February 2015 On ethics and principles Deeply rooted in our foundation and corporate culture lies an effort to meet the social and environmental responsibilities within our sphere of influence. Our ethical requirements and behaviour along with our integrity in business affairs are high – in fact, in many cases our standards are above the legislative demands imposed upon us in the markets where we operate. Before we signed up for the United Nations Global Compact in 2010 we had already developed 14 ethical principles of our own, covering the aspects of ethics we find especially important to abide by. In order to align and create an overview of our progress both with respect to the Global Compact principles as well as our own 14 principles, we have organised relevant projects according to both approaches. For the full overview please refer to Table: UN Global Compact CoP 2014 in the last section of this report. Our responsibility To us, acting responsibly means meeting certain principles and always following local legislation. In addition to this, it also means doing more than just the minimum or just taking the actions required by law. In this context we find it relevant to mention how our parent, the Oticon Foundation, in 2014 made 1,924 donations to social, cultural and scientific projects, totalling almost DKK 87 million. In the objects clause of the deed of foundation the alleviation of hearing loss is a primary focus. Thus, in 2014 DKK 45 million was donated to educational institutions and research projects in the field of audiology. Thus, Denmark’s Technical University (DTU) and Aalborg University have both received substantial means to support research groups and individual projects. Social and cultural engagement in Denmark On a broader note, we would like to mention a few special projects to show the scope of the Oticon Foundation: The Oticon Foundation supports causes through donations to special social projects in Denmark, including the Denmark Collection (Danmarksindsamlingen), the Cure for Cancer (Knæk Cancer) and the Children’s Collection (Børneindsamlingen) – all arranged by Danish TV channels and broadcast as large TV shows. Page 3 of 16 A very significant single project supported by the Oticon Foundation is the reconstruction of one of the largest squares in Copenhagen (Israels Plads). The donation was made to celebrate the 50-year anniversary of the Oticon Foundation in 2008. After several years of planning and constructing, the beautifully planned and designed square was inaugurated in 2014. Global engagement, empowering people with hearing loss For several years, the Oticon Foundation has funded the IDA Institute which, at an international level, develops tools to empower and support people with hearing impairment in their process of recognition and treatment. The institute also develops and communicates information about hearing loss to the global general public. The work of the institute aims to positively impact hearing-impaired persons and hearing care professionals around the world by making patient-centered care the core of hearing care practice, and by promoting research and education within the field of acoustic communication. In 2014, the foundation granted a total of approximately DKK 12 million to the institute. William Demant local engagement, awareness about hearing loss In 2014, the Group engaged with a local school, inviting 135 pupils in 6th grade to visit our headquarters. Encouraged by the local municipality which has goals of strengthening the relations between local businesses and the schools; we posed the students the following question: ‘How do we take better care of our ears?’ – a matter to which we could provide the students with knowledge on our core business, hearing loss. In this process, we were able to spread the awareness of potential hearing loss, a problem that is increasingly relevant due to, for example, the intense use of headsets among young people all over the industrialised world. In addition, we were able to engage in the local community. The pupils presented 24 projects with different solutions – roughly categorised in three groups: Medical treatment, behavioural control and edutainment. The winning project contained the idea to an app, measuring sound level on the phone, inducing warnings together with good advice on how to take care of your hearing and the encouragement to seek more information. Page 4 of 16 Policies Generally, we operate in compliance with our own 14 principles, covering corporate governance, human and labour rights, environmental protection and business ethics. These principles serve as guidelines for our development of dedicated policies and action plans and have been developed in line with the Global Compact initiative. As an example of how a principle becomes a policy, we have laid down a business ethics policy that includes a set of rules for the way we interact with customers, business partners and other stakeholders. In 2012, we drew up an equality policy, containing an action plan stipulating how to increase the number of female managers at all levels. In 2014, this specific policy has received further attention. Please refer to the 'Labour' paragraph. Policies into action Global Compact – a universal tool Since our first Communication on Progress to the UN Global Compact in spring 2011, we have experienced progress within several of the four focus areas covered by the 10 principles. It is a commitment to furthering principles relating to human rights, labour rights, the environment and anti-corruption. As the framework is a universally recognised tool used for systematising and reporting responsibility initiatives over a continuous period of time, it indicates how we have developed so far and also whether we are moving along the right path. In other words, it acts as guidance for us to maintain and strengthen our focus within corporate social responsibility. Our Communication on Progress is published on the UN Global Compact website as well as on our own website. In the subsequent paragraphs, our efforts are aligned with the four focus areas and the 10 principles of UN Global Compact. Page 5 of 16 Human rights Principle 1: Support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Principle 2: Businesses should make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses. At William Demant, more than 90% of our turnover comes from the OECD countries where violation of human rights is not an issue that companies need to address through special projects or increased attention. Securing human rights is covered by local legislation, which we, of course, follow, thus acting in accordance with UN Global Compact principle 1 and 2. In countries of operation outside OECD we only employ and conduct business with highly skilled labour, selling and handling our advanced products. Violating proclaimed human rights is simply against our business model – not only is it against our own business ethics policy it would also harm our business. Thus, where local legislation does not naturally protect human rights, labour rights and serve environmental interests – e.g. in China and India – we use our code of conduct to ensure that high standards are met when dealing with e.g. suppliers, which are beyond the boundaries of our own company. For more information on our code of conduct, please also refer to ‘Labour, principle 4’. Improving conditions for people less fortunate Even though it can hardly be justified as protection of human rights it is still worth pointing out how we make special efforts to improve conditions for people less fortunate, be it regarding general health condition or with focus on people close to our core business: the hearing-impaired. In 2014, employees at William Demant in Denmark collectively supported the international movement, Movember, which encourages people to donate money to support men’s health, e.g. through research on and the prevention of prostate and testicular cancer, and through information on men’s general state of health, creating awareness of ‘doing something in time’. The William Demant Team continued the 2013 effort, and also in 2014 the Oticon Foundation generously contributed to the team collection. In more remote parts of the world, the Oticon Foundation supported the Australian Hear our Hearts project, which involves a mobile hearing clinic. The clinic reaches geographical and ethnic areas where professional hearing healthcare is virtually impossible to practise. People in these areas, who would normally not have access to treatment of their hearing loss, can be helped this way – free of charge. In addition, since 2010 the Oticon Foundation has supported The Global Foundation for Children with Hearing Loss in their efforts to improve conditions for children with hearing impairment in Vietnam. Among other activities, the Global Foundation develops educational initiatives for parents and teachers working with hearing-impaired children and helps the children gain easier access to hearing aids. So far, the project has been able to help more than 1000 children with hearing loss. In the Amazons and in South Africa, the Oticon Foundation has supported projects establishing local hearing clinics. These projects involve volunteers from local Oticon affiliates as well as social workers, specialists from universities, hospitals and audio clinics, primarily in the US. Page 6 of 16 Labour Principle 3: Uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining The William Demant Group has signed collective agreements with relevant labour unions. Subsequently, we negotiate and sign local agreements, duly considering local conditions, thus further improving terms regarding salary, working hours, salary increments, education etc. We respect the individual's membership of labour unions. In Bern, Switzerland, a new Agreement in the Mechanical and Electrical Engineering Industries was signed by Swissmem by the end of 2013 and effectuated in 2014. This is a collective convention/agreement between employers (Bernafon, Sonic Oticon companies are partners of Swissmem) and a number of employee organizations. Main improvements from an employee point of view are the introduction of minimal wages and the introduction of paid paternity leave. Principle 4: Uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour Supplier code of conduct – providing a safe and healthy working environment Suppliers are one of our special focus areas. All suppliers must sign a comprehensive code of conduct that lists criteria, governing aspects of human rights, labour rights, the environment as well as anti-corruption – in fact, all four principles of the Global Compact. Thus, this code of conduct covers more than just Principle 4, but the compliance with our policy is described under Principle 4, as we focus our attention on our Chinese suppliers in a part of the world where labour relations are a big issue. In 2014, we also had an Indian supplier sign the agreement. The code has been used since 2010 throughout the Group, and at the end of 2014, 238 of our suppliers of components and packaging materials had signed the code, promising to comply with the rules. In terms of value, we buy about 90% of our direct materials for production and distribution from this group of suppliers. We select and currently assess our suppliers based on this code. The suppliers are grouped in three categories according to the level of risk of breach of our code of conduct. The risk assessment is based on William Demant's own methodology. It is subject to independent audit and based on the supplier's geographical presence, sector, management practices and strategic importance for William Demant. The categorisation of suppliers helps us prioritise the resources needed for further dialogue with the suppliers. If we find that there is a risk that a supplier does not live up to our code of conduct, we carry out an audit and prepare a report, listing the items that need to be addressed before we can initiate or continue cooperation with that supplier. In 2014, we performed 14 CSR audits, nine of which were carried out by an external auditing firm. The nine external audits were followed up by internal audits, to control that initiatives contained in prior action plans had indeed been carried out. Page 7 of 16 The typical non-compliances are:  Too many working hours per week  Lack of one day off per week  Fines to workers for breaking internal rules, e.g. violation of smoking prohibition  Lack of evidence of CSR audits of subcontractors  Emergency exits blocked  Lack of exit signs  Lack of training in fire extinction and emergency handling  Lack of written emergency plans In the audits made we found between 7-34 non-compliances. One collaboration agreement was discontinued due to non-compliance. Basically, the supplier is responsible for remedying any shortcomings, but in many cases, we work out a common solution. However, we do have a zero tolerance policy in some areas, such as child labour and forced labour. Principle 5: Uphold the effective abolition of child labour. We do not use child labour at all. Not only is it against our business ethics policy but it is also impossible due to our advanced products and services. The vast majority of our employees as well as the employees of the companies with which we conduct our business are highly skilled, having gone through years of training and/or education enabling them to develop, sell and handle the products. Principle 6: Uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation More female managers We work actively to encourage more women to seek executive and managerial positions. In 2012, to formalise and support this goal we therefore developed a policy and action plan with a view to increasing the share of female managers in the William Demant Group. We simply called it 'More female managers'. On an ongoing basis, concrete initiatives are taken to support the policy. Examples of initiatives are: With regard to the external recruitment process to increase the base of female employees and thus the number of potential female managers, relevant departments in the William Demant Group must prioritise sending female employees to job fairs. In job advertisements and in our general employer branding material, we will further balance the tone of voice between ‘male’ and ‘female’ connotations in our communication, ensuring the use of female employees in employer branding visuals. Also, when cooperating with external recruiting agencies, we require qualified female candidates in the second round. Our managers will have greater focus on guiding and nudging female talents towards pursuing opportunities for promotion. We are pleased to see that the trend is positive. Thus, over the last five years, the total male/female manager ratio has thus improved from 86/14 in 2010 to 79/21 in 2014. In middle and first-line management, the ratio has increased from 82/18 in 2010 to 73/27 in 2014. Page 8 of 16 It is important, however, to keep in mind that all these initiatives do not change our basic recruiting goal, which is to always seek, hire and promote the best qualified employees – gender set aside. Development in male-female ratio, from top management to first-line management 2010-2014 Board of Directors New rules for the gender-specific composition of top management in all large Danish companies became effective 1 April 2013. These rules oblige the companies to set a target for the representation of the underrepresented gender on the company’s board and to set a deadline for achievement of such target. In April 2013, the Board of Directors of William Demant set the following target and deadline in respect of female board members: Within a period of four years, one woman must be elected to the Board of Directors. At the annual general meeting in April 2014, a female board member was elected by the general meeting, Thus, the target has been reached and subsequently, the Board of Directors has concluded that with the current number of four board members elected by the shareholders, one female member is a realistic and adequate target. At least once a year, the nomination committee and the Board will assess whether there are grounds to change the target. Page 9 of 16 Environment Principle 7: Support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Naturally, we comply with all current environmental rules and regulations in all the countries in which we operate. Our product-related environmental impact is fairly limited. By way of example, a hearing aid weighs just 2-6 grammes and contains no harmful substances. Putting our production into perspective, the total weight of our entire annual output of hearing aids only adds up to approximately 12 tonnes. Even with our production of diagnostic equipment the total is less than 50 tonnes. Restricted lists Although the use of raw material is limited compared to other industries, we still encourage a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Thus, we have implemented the use of 'restricted lists'. A restricted list is a list of chemicals that are somehow restricted from use in hearing aids. The document lists all relevant components and materials, which are banned or restricted. It is still worth mentioning that our list, updated in 2013, bans the use of all phthalates. This exceeds the legislative requirements. It is mandatory for our suppliers to comply with the restricted list, which is controlled through a declaration of conformity and/or audits. The list is an initiative taken by William Demant, and it is mainly based on regulations, such as the ROHS directive, Toys directive, the REACH candidate list etc. Substances are categorised in classes:  Class I: Prohibited (not to be introduced in the production or be present in any products put on the market by the William Demant Group).  Class II: Restricted (for restricted use only).  Class III: Subjected to special deliberation (can be used, but under observation).  Class IV: Under observation (can be used after thorough risk assessment). Working with restricted lists ensures full transparency on the use of hazardous substances and also ensures compliance with relevant directives, and it gives the manufacturers the opportunity to set the bar even higher than required or recommended by external standards. Carbon Disclosure Project In 2008, we joined the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) which gives us a means of measuring and recording our environmental footprint, and each year we submit CDP reports on corporate CO2 emissions and climate strategy. At the time of writing, there are no available data for the 2014 calendar year, but a look at the development from 2012 to 2013 reveals, according to our CDP reports, that emissions in the countries in which we manufacture our products have dropped by 0.9%, which is rather substantial in view of the fact that in the same period, we have seen a rise in revenue. CO2 emissions per employee are calculated at 2.85 tonnes per year, which is in itself low for a manufacturing company, but also constitutes a rather significant drop of 9.9% from 2012 to 2013. Actually, this emission level corresponds to the level in the financial industry. Electricity accounts for about 85% of corporate CO2 emissions, the heating of buildings for about 7% and company cars for about 8%. Page 10 of 16 Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Energy consumption In terms of the environment, being responsible means acting both globally and locally, and having the right attitude. We constantly try to do better in this field. In Denmark we are in close cooperation with our energy provider, SEAS-NVE, regarding energy optimisations; and in 2014, we reported effectuated energy savings of 208,235 kWh/year. These savings are a result of a collective and focused effort. By way of example, we have ambitious goals regarding IT infrastructure: We continue our efforts with the goal of lowering the energy consumption to a third on running our server infrastructure in the local sales companies where refurbished. Actually, our efforts in this area have given rise to savings by as much as 5:1 in optimal scenarios. Furthermore, continuously replacing hardware with more energy efficient models is a focus area. Also, within the IT area, process optimisations have ensured that capacity planning is carried out more efficiently, reducing overcapacity, lowering overall energy consumption. Initiatives have been taken to continue the consolidation of services on larger data centres, where cooling systems and backend environments are better utilised and specialised for leaner running. We are shutting down old, power consuming servers replacing them with more energy efficient servers, and vendors of IT services are committed to a green approach, securing a responsible supply chain in this area. The approach is global – thus, aside from headquarter activities in Denmark, we are reaping the benefits of having replaced all hardware at our operations in Bern, Switzerland, and in Brazil where 10 old servers in a Storage Area Network (SAN) were shut down and replaced by one single server and a new SAN. All these initiatives bring the power utilisation even further down on hosting applications, adding less footprint on energy consumption when more services are added. Energy consumption in server room at William Demant headquarters. Level has significantly decreased since the establishment of server virtualisation in 2013. On a local level, at our location in Bern, we went through a refurbishment of the Swiss headquarter. At this occasion, we changed all lightning to energy-saving LED-system, including movement sensors for ON/OFF functionality. Page 11 of 16 Marketing materials In many ways we aim to act responsibly regarding our environmental awareness. As an example, we continue to drive overall initiatives initiated in 2012 regarding printed marketing. The packaging project on the substantial NHS market (National Health Service in UK) is a benchmark. Here, we have reduced the use of paper in the Instruction For Use by 70-75% due to a new format, removed metal staples, replaced plastic box by a paper version, and reduced its size by 25%. Reverting the ratio 70/30 of print/digital materials to 30/70 is still in process, printed proof impressions shall be reduced by 80%, use of chemicals (e.g. UV varnish) has been significantly reduced and is coming very close to elimination, and all printing companies on our list of vendors are certified according to acknowledged environmental standards delivering only FSC-labelled printed materials. FSC, Forest Stewardship Council, promotes environmentally appropriate, socially beneficial and economically viable management of the world's forests. Offshore windmill farms A large investment of DKK 1.7 billion made in early 2012 by the Oticon Foundation through William Demant Invest (WDI) should be mentioned in this report. A gigantic wind farm is erected off the German North Sea coast and from 2015, producing green electricity matching the consumption of 285,000 households. The wind farm is still under construction, project running on schedule with the 77 foundations and transition pieces installed during 2014 and first power released on 17.February 2015. WDI's interest in the wind farm constitutes about 18%, and the corresponding production of green power will be more than five times the total corporate consumption of electricity. Once the wind farm is delivering the projected output, the investment in green power will make William Demant a very green enterprise almost overnight. Most of the Group's energy consumption at global level is used for heating and cooling buildings, lighting and computers, networks etc., with just a small part devoted to producing corporate products. Our investment in wind energy is therefore completely in step with our increased focus over the past four or five years on further reducing the environmental impact of our energy consumption, which is already relatively low. Page 12 of 16 Anti-corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. We are convinced that our business can only flourish if based on sound business ethics. We develop innovative, high-quality products and our primary goal is for the users to benefit from our products. We therefore have no interest in supporting business conduct that contributes to distorting market mechanisms. William Demant has not been involved in any legal disputes or settlements on business ethics. In 2010, we adopted a formal business ethics policy that applies to all Group companies. The policy outlines how we want to act and how we want to be perceived, when it comes to the ethical aspects of doing business and interacting with customers. Specifically, the policy provides guidelines as to what is appropriate and inappropriate marketing, hospitality and other interaction with hearing healthcare professionals. We do not offer, give, accept or receive bribery in any form and we discourage facilitation payments. Along these lines, it is important to note that situations where corruption is prevalent often occur in third-world countries in connection with public tenders and that these tenders represent a very limited part of our total revenue. In fact, OECD countries account for approximately 90% of the market for hearing aids. By the nature of our business, challenges regarding corruption are thus extremely rare. Nevertheless, according to the policy, we have incorporated business ethics principles into contracts with third parties where relevant, and we have applied a set of principles to avoid misuse of payments and financial transactions. Furthermore, we make an effort to communicate our business ethics to all our companies, thus making ethics a natural part of all managers’ meetings and internal training sessions. Page 13 of 16 Goals for the future Special focus areas for the near future are general environmental initiatives. In the area of facility management, i.e. in connection with building and renovation projects, we will make an effort to ensure that we always choose the best solution, which means implementing environmentally friendly improvements. Also, marketing will continue to receive special attention in the near future. The project to reverse the print/on-line material ratio from 70/30 to 30/70 is in focus, and new improvements will be made on an ongoing basis. On the labour side, project 'More female managers' will receive continued attention, partly because it is now included in the Danish legislation, partly because it is a long process which requires substantial efforts that touch upon many layers of the organisation to achieve this goal. There is no doubt that our joining the Global Compact initiative, our participation in the Carbon Disclosure Project and our generally increased focus on communication on responsibility all testify to the fact that this work is a priority and will be continuously developed in future. Page 14 of 16 Table: UN Global Compact CoP 2014 Return to beginning of document Focus Corporate 1. Human rights 2. Labour rights 3. Environmental 4. Anti-corruption areas governance protection (William Demant specific) William 1. We maintain an 4. We treat our employ5. We do not use and 9. We use materials 12. We are committed accountable and ees with respect and we prohibit the use of efficiently and strive to to abide by the laws Demant efficient managedignity, encourage diforced labour or child optimise packaging as and regulations of the 14 princiment structure. versity and ensure fair labour. well as waste handling. countries in which ples treatment. we operate. In the 2. We communicate 7. We recognise our 10. We limit the use of absence of adequate in an open, trans6. We provide a safe employees' rights to hazardous substances laws and regulations, parent, impartial and healthy working freedom of associain products and prowe refer to recognised and timely manner environment where emtion and collective cesses. international standwith the stock marployees can perform to bargaining. 11. We monitor our imards and industry ket about the their full potential and pact on the climate norms. Group's strategy, where initiative is enand aim to reduce our objectives and couraged. 13. We work against energy consumption. risks. bribery and other 8. We strive to maintain forms of corruption, 3. We maintain good relations with both directly and inadequate internal neighbours and the directly through our control mechasurrounding society business partners, nisms with a view through involvement and we strive to avoid to monitoring, and open communicafacilitation payments. managing and mitition. gating any material 14. To benefit the users risks associated of our products is our with our business. primary goal. We therefore avoid actions that may influence business decisions to the disadvantage of the endusers. Special The Directors rely Highlighted projects: Highlighted projects: Highlighted projects: In general: on the recommenatten1. Oticon Foundation 1. More female man1. Restricted list initiaOur suppliers' code of dations of corpotion/ rate governance through Ida Institute: agers: Special focus tive conduct includes criaction Tools to support and with new legislation, 2. Reduce printed marteria for anti-corrupdrawn up by The empower people with policy and action plan keting material tion. Committee for Corhearing impairment in for 2012 onwards. 3. Reduce energy conporate Governance Business ethics poltheir process of recogsumption through in Denmark. 2. Our suppliers' code icy. nition and treatment. global IT server consoliof conduct includes Information about heardation criteria relating to laing loss to the general 4. Offshore windmill bour rights. public. farm. 2. Oticon Foundation Also, our suppliers' through various procode of conduct injects – e.g. in the third cludes criteria for the world. environment. Page 15 of 16 Focus Corporate 1. Human rights 2. Labour rights 3. Environmental 4. Anti-corruption areas governance protection (William Demant specific) Also, our suppliers' code of conduct includes criteria relating to human rights. Results We have developed Re 1: Ida Institute aims Re 1: More female Re 1: In the William De238 suppliers of coma comprehensive to positively empower managers: Increasing mant restricted list iniponents and packagand goals Statutory Report on hearing-impaired perthe number of female tiative, substances are ing have signed the Corporate Governsons and hearing care managers at all levels categorised in four code of conduct. ance 2014, describprofessionals around through specific initiclasses, ensuring full About 90% of our toing and reviewing the world by making atives is a corporate transparency on the tal purchases are the William Demant patient-centered care goal. So far, ratio has use of hazardous submade through this systems for corpothe core of hearing care increased from 14% stances and ensuring group of suppliers. rate governance. practice, and by proin 2010 to 21% in compliance with releBased on the code, Out of the 47 recmoting research and 2014. vant directives. we carried through 14 ommendations set education within the Re 2: Suppliers’ code Re 2: Pursuing goal of CSR audits in 2014. up by the Commitfield of acoustic comof conduct: 238 supreversing ratio between One cooperation tee on Corporate munication. pliers of components agreement was susGovernance, there offand online material Re 2: Projects in for and packaging have pended due to deviaare only four that to 30% off-line and example Australia, Vietsigned the code of tions. we do not comply 70% on-line. Through nam, the Amazon and conduct. About 90% with. in South Africa: A moof our total purchases continued focus on bile hearing clinic in are made through this packaging materials Australia; in the Amagroup of suppliers. and use of printed mazon and in South Africa Based on the code, terials. All printed malocal hearing clinics we carried out 14 CSR terials FSC-labelled. with the help of volunaudits in 2014. One teers from local Oticon cooperation agreeaffiliates as well as soRe 3: IT server consoliment was suspended cial workers, specialdation: Energy savings due to deviations. ists from universities, by as much as 5:1 in hospitals and audio optimal scenarios. clinics, primarily in the US. Re 4. The William Demant offshore windmill farm is now generating its first power. From 2015 our share will produce more than five times the total corporate consumption of electricity in green power. Return to beginning of document Page 16 of 16
