Company Overview Sustainable Management Five Core Issues Performance Data Appendices 1 2015 Sustainability Report 2015 Sustainability Report Company Overview Five Core Issues Appendices Sustainable Management . 1. Respecting Customers .......................................... 26 Independent Assurance Statement .......... 78 Highlights for 2014 ............................................................. 04 2. Adding Technology .................................................... 32 GRI G4 Index ................................................................................ 80 CEO Message ............................................................................... 06 3. Preserving Environment .................................... 40 KEPCO Overview ................................................................... 08 4. Joining Humanity ........................................................ 48 5. Caring People ..................................................................... 58 Sustainable Management Strategies for Sustainable . Management ............................................................................. 12 Performance Data Governance Structure ................................................... 14 Economy ............................................................................................ 68 Risk Management ................................................................ 16 Environment ................................................................................ 70 Ethical Management ........................................................ 18 Society .................................................................................................. 72 Stakeholder Communication . Others .................................................................................................... 73 and Engagement ................................................................... 20 Materiality Assessment and . Drawing Major Issues ..................................................... 22 02 2015 KEPCO Sustainability Report Company Overview Sustainable Management Five Core Issues Performance Data Appendices 03 “KEPCO dreams of a new future to create new energy.” With a history of 117 years working together with the people, KEPCO’s headquarters has left Seoul to be relocated in Gwangju/Jeonnam Innovation City. Ready for the next 100 years to realize our new dream of KEPCO will take the lead in building Korea’s best innovation city into the world’s best energy valley, serving as a hub for the global energy ecosystem. New headquarters building at Gwangju/Jeonnam Innovation City(Naju)(Since December 2014) Former KEPCO building in Samseong-dong, Seoul(1986 – November, 2014) 04 2015 KEPCO Sustainability Report Company Overview Sustainable Management Five Core Issues Performance Data Appendices 05 Sustainable Annual sales for 1 overseas business Management 16 st rank for 3.9 trillion consecutive CDP energy CSV KRW Highlights 1st years sector Porter Prize for 2014 in the world 01 02 05 06 07 Achieved the highest rank in customer Assessment in the electricity supply Received global certificate for Won the CSV Porter Process Achieved the largest annual sales satisfaction sector by the World Bank reducing GHG emissions for overseas business As a result of customized service, improvement KEPCO was ranked first in the world for elecOur efforts for transparency in GHG emissions As the company has introduced CSV manageThrough efforts to create profits in various in our customer-focused system, and stable tricity supply in the corporate environment information and performance for reducing ment for the first time among public compasectors such as nuclear power, thermal powelectricity supply and demand management, assessment 2014 by the World Bank with its GHG emissions were recognized when KEPCO nies in Korea, KEPCO developed a business er, renewable energy, and transmission and KEPCO earned a score of 98.9 in customer sathigh quality electricity supply. Our quality was listed in the Winner’s Club with the first model specialized for electricity business and distribution and find new business opportuniisfaction level among public companies by the electricity can be seen in our notable achieverank in the CDP(Carbon Disclosure Project) established the CSV execution system. Achievties, KEPCO achieved the largest annual sales Ministry of Strategy and Finance, achieving the ments such entering the range of 10 minutes energy sector. ing excellent performance for efforts to create business for overseas business, which is worth highest level for 16 consecutive years. in SAIDI(10.88 minutes) for the first time since socially shared value, the company received KRW 3,959.2 billion. KEPCO’s foundation and maintaining a world the 1st CSV Porter prize. record T&D loss rate of 3.69%, etc. 08 09 10 03 04 Established the world’s largest ESS Held the largest event in the history USD 327.55 million Exports sales Moody’s credit rating upgrade to Eco-friendly merit in Korea for 2014 for frequency regulation of CEPSI by SMEs Aa3 stable By establishing the world’s largest ESS of By holding the CEPSI(Conference of the ElecBy reinforcing support for overseas sales Thanks to KEPCO’s highly intensive efforts to KEPCO has been recognized for its eco-friendly 52MW for frequency regulation at Seo-Antric Power Supply Industry) successfully at its channels, such as helping 84 companies in improve financial soundness and enterprise management through prizes such as the presseong Substation and Sin-Yongin Substation, largest size in history with 2,589 visitors from promoting exports with its brand power, value including the increased market capiidential citation in the government prize for KEPCO improved the output of carbon gener36 countries, KEPCO signed seven MOUs and KEPCO Trusted Partner(KTP), and holding talization by KRW 5.1 trillion, Moody’s credit eco-friendly merit in Korea for 2014 with their ators and laid a new foundation for reducing consulted for exports worth USD 8 million to export promotion exhibitions in eight counrating on KEPCO has been upgraded from A1 prominent corporate social responsibility. electricity purchase expenses. establish the basis for leaping forward into a tries, KEPCO had led SME’s export worth USD to Aa3 stable. activities. global energy hub. 327.55 million and contributed to creating an ecosystem for win-win growth with SMEs. Aa3 EcoReceived 52MW Stable presidential citation Friendly 2,589 327.55 million event participants USD 06 2015 KEPCO Sustainability Report Company Overview Sustainable Management Five Core Issues Performance Data Appendices 07 CEO Message Dear respected stakeholders I sincerely appreciate all our stakeholders’ unceasing support for KEPCO. As a result of the continuous communication and cooperation with all our stakeholders, KEPCO has published its 11th sustainability report this year. The year of 2014 was meaningful for KEPCO : we not only fulfilled the company’s role and mission to achieve the original purpose of securing stability in the supply and demand of electricity, and contributing to development of national growth, but we also improved the financial structure with our intensive efforts and significantly improved our enterprise value. We will start the new Bitgaram era to realize a sustainable energy future in the electricity industry and carry out various activities as a Smart Energy Creator. Smart We realize a smart energy world based on communication with customers. The global energy market has undergone changes and innovation and urged the establishment of a smart energy infrastructure to create a sustainable energy world for all of us. To establish this next-generation energy infrastructure, it is imperative to ensure communication with customers. We were able to secure a stable supply and demand of electricity with our world’s best quality electricity and thus have improved customer trust. KEPCO also earned the honor of achieving the first rank of customer satisfaction for 16 consecutive years through customized service by reflecting on-site opinions. We will enhance acceptability for power facilities through proactive internal and external communication, shifting the paradigm in the electricity facility construction business, and make great efforts to construct power facilities based on trust and mutual growth. Energy KEPCO leads sustainable growth in the future by expanding the business with new energy sources as well as overseas business. KEPCO has led next-generation technology such as optimizing energy through the Smart Grid, establishing an eco-friendly energy-independent island, and demonstrating the world’s largest Energy Storage System(ESS).. We also laid the foundation for reducing GHG emissions by developing eco-friendly energy technology. As the company established our global network in various countries such as those in the Middle East, Central and South America, and Africa, we have achieved overseas sales of KRW 4 trillion a year. For the future, we plan to establish a ‘Global Energy Belt’ connecting Central and North America to South America, Africa, Middle East, and Asia to create differentiated future value and present new and better solutions for the global energy industry. Creator KEPCO is creating a new future at the glocal innovation cluster, ‘Bitgaram Energy Valley’ As the company relocated its headquarters to Gwangju/Jeonnam Innovation City, KEPCO has welcomed a new era for Bitgaram. Facing this new era, we have proactively carried out the Bitgaram Energy Valley construction business to establish a platform in this local area to leap forward into the global market. In addition to conducting advanced customized energy specialization business in connection with the local characteristics, attracting energy-related companies, and making focused investment in the R&D sector, KEPCO will add value for win-win growth with SMEs by continuously implementing industry-academy cooperation and communicating with local communities through social contribution. Through these efforts, Bitgaram Innovation City will become not only a new electricity capital in Korea but also an energy hub in the world. For this new Bitgaram era, KEPCO aims to create a sustainable future with everyone under a new resolution. We will begin a new chapter for humanity over the century by sharing today’s issues with the customers who have been supporting us in our 117-year history. We will create shared value for the future with the local community as a partner in the electricity business, using smart energy to improve the quality of life. I appreciate your continued support for KEPCO as we work together for a better, more eco-friendly tomorrow. Thank you. “For the new Bitgaram era, KEPCO aims to create a sustainable future for the company with everyone under a new resolution.” KEPCO CEO & President Cho Hwan-Eik 08 2015 KEPCO Sustainability Report Company Overview Sustainable Management Five Core Issues Performance Data Appendices 09 KEPCO Current status (As of December 31, 2014) Value System Overview As we begin a new era in Bitgaram since moving our headquarters in December 2014, KEPCO has set a new vision to become a ‘Smart Energy Creator, KEPCO’ with customers, management, all employees, and external Company name Korea Electric Power Corporation(KEPCO) Total assets Number of employees 164 trillion 19,899 experts to present a blueprint for the next century. In the future, the company will make a better tomorrow as Established date January 26, 1898 KRW a company creating Smart Energy, not just simple electricity for customers. Total assets KRW 164 trillion(based on consolidated . 57 trillion 477,592 GWh financial statements) Sales Amount of electricity sales Sales KRW 57 trillion(based on consolidated . KRW Establishment . financial statements) objective To support stability in electricity supply and demand and Number of 19,899. Government 21.17% contribute to the development of the national economy employees Volume of 477,592GWh. Korea Development . electricity sales Bank 29.94% Vision Composition of G  overnment(21.17%), Korea Development Composition of National Pension . shareholders Bank(29.94%), National Pension Sershareholders Service 6.93% Smart Energy Creator, KEPCO vice(6.93%), Foreign Shareholders(28.80%), . Others(13.16%) Foreigners . shareholders 28.80% Listed stocks  orea Exchange(1989, KRX) . K New York Stock Exchange(1994, NYSE) Others 13.16% Core value Challenge and Respecting Social Communication Future-oriented innovation customers responsibility and harmony Future Innovation Respect Social resp. Together Domestic Electricity Industry Structure and Responsibilities of KEPCO At present, six GENCOs, independent power producers, and community energy suppliers, generate electric F I R S T power. KEPCO purchases electric power via the Korea Power Exchange and sends it through its transmission and distribution grid to end users. The company is incorporated under the Korea Electric Power Corporation Business Reinforcing efficiency Expanding profits in Securing future . Establishing sustainAct for the purpose of promoting power development, stabilizing power supply and demand, and contributing strategy in domestic business overseas business growth engines able management to the national economy. KEPCO is classified as a market-based public corporation under the Act on the Operation of Public Organizations. The company is also carrying out the development, generation, transmission, transformation and sales of power, technology research and development, investment and/or contributions to overseas businesses, and the utilization of its real estate assets. KEPCO History Structure of Korean Power Industry 1897 | Lit the first electric lamp in Korea. 2002 |. Commercial operation of the 765kV transmission . (Geoncheongung in Gyeongbokgung) lines for the first time in Asia . 1898 | Founded Hansung Electric Company 2004 | Created KEPCO Social Service Team Thermal power generation subsidiaries KEPCO group companies · Korea South-East Power Co., Ltd. · KEPCO Engineering & Construction Company Inc. 1944 | Completed Supung Hydroelectric Power Plant 2005 |. Completed voltage upgrade to 220V for distribution · Korea Midland Power Co., Ltd. · KEPCO Plant Service & Engineering Co., Ltd. 1961 |. Korea Electric Company was established(after the . Started power supply to Kaeseong Industrial Complex · Korea Western Power Co., Ltd. · KEPCO Nuclear Fuel Co., Ltd. integration of Chosun Electricity Control Decree, . Published the first Sustainability Report · Korea Southern Power Co., Ltd. · KEPCO Knowledge Data Network Co., Ltd. Gyeongsung Electric Company and Namsun . Relevant . . · Korea East-West Power Co., Ltd. business Electric Company) Joined UN Global Compact for the first time . . among Korean companies 1978 | Completed the nation’s first Kori Nuclear Unit 2006 | Won the Edison Award 1982 | Renamed to Korea Electric Power Corporation 2009 | Won its first nuclear power plant project(UAE) Hydro and nuclear power 1989 | Listed on the Korea Exchange . Korea Transmission Transformation Distribution generation subsidiary (Offering for government-issued stock) 2012 |. Began support for social enterprises . Power . Exchanger Completed Jeju Smart Grid Pilot Project · Korea Hydro & Transaction 1994 | Listed on the New York Exchange Nuclear Power Co., Ltd. 2013 | Held Daegu WEC(World Energy Congress) 1995 |. Won its first overseas generation project . Customers 2014 |. Moved the headquarters building . (Malaya Thermal Power Plant in the Philippines) . (Gwangju/Jeonnam Bitgaram Innovation City) 1997 |. Completed the Jeju-Haenam submarine. . transmission line(101km) Established the nuclear reactor at first unit in the UAE 1998 |. Celebrated the company’s 100th anniversary . Held CEPSI(Conference of the Electric Power . Independent Supply Industry) . Completed Ulchin Units 3, the first Korean Standard . power producers Nuclear Power Plant Achieved the highest level of customer satisfaction . Community energy suppliers Overseas 2001 | Spun off six generation subsidiaries for the generation sector for 16 consecutive years business 10 2015 KEPCO Sustainability Report Company Overview Sustainable Management Five Core Issues Performance Data Appendices 11 Leaps in Innovation for a Sustainable Future KEPCO will explore the future and accomplish innovation for sustainable growth. Our ceaseless endeavors with smart energy technologies will create future values and position KEPCO a pioneer in the global energy industry. Sustainable Management Strategies for Sustainable. Management 12 Governance Structure 14 Risk Management 16 Ethical Management 18 Stakeholder Communication and Engagement 20 Materiality Assessment and Drawing Major Issues 22 12 2015 KEPCO Sustainability Report Company Overview Sustainable Management Five Core Issues Performance Data Appendices 13 Strategies for In 2014, KEPCO reestablished its vision for sustainable management, to become a Creative Energy Leader for Mid and Long-term Goals for Sustainable Management Sustainable Sustainable Future Values, and set eight tasks based on four major strategic directions. The company has developed a sustainable management system by drawing core issues for each task to analyze crises and opporStrategic Strategic . Performance . Goal . Performance . Achievement . Goal . Mid and long-term Management direction task index for 2014 for 2014 rate for 2015 goal(2020) tunities and present core performances and short and long-term goals. After considering the level of urgency, importance, and influence for each sustainable management strategic task, we will draft a mid-to-long-term Creating Stabilizing the. Load rate(%) 75 74.3 99% 75.8 76 and over supply and demand plan for sustainable management to realize sustainable value with customers, local communities, executives, economic . of electricity Amount of peak reduction(10,000 kW) 70 1) 103 147% 70 100 and over 1) and employees. value Amount of overseas generation. 4.6. 4.9. 107%. 5.0. 24 2) . facilities(GW) . Overseas sales(in trillions of KRW) 4.3 3.9 91% 4.8 12.3 3) Creating new future Creating economic value Realizing eco-friendly energy growth engines Securing core strategic 32. 32. 100%. 43. 105 . technology(case, total) Number of personnel with overseas 1,513 2,001 132% 10% or more for all 10% or more for all Stabilizing the supply and Expanding green management business capability(person) employees employees demand of electricity ·Realizing eco-friendly value ·Strengthening management of in the supply chain electricity demand · Reinforcing the integrated environment management system KRW 3.9 trillion 32 cases 2,001persons ·Improving efficiency of energy Overseas sales Securing core . personnel with overseas consumption strategic technology business capability % Creating new future growth engines Coping with climate change Realizing . Expanding green Distribution underground lines(%) 15.7 16.03 102% 16.4 21 or more(2022) ·Establishing the carbon management ·Fostering global professional eco-friendly T&D loss rate(%) 3.7 or less 3.69 101% 3.7 or less 3.7 or less personnel management system 1 2 · Reducing GHG emissions energy Expense for environmental investment. 39,500 . 37,396. 95%. 40,000 45,000 . ·Securing core strategic technology (in 100 millions of KRW) ·Strengthening internal overseas Creative Energy Coping with Amount of GHG emissions. 1,829. 1,426. 128%. 1,590 . 1,590 . business (1,000 tons CO2eq) Leader for climate change Rank in CDP4) for domestic utility 2nd 1st 100% 1st 1st Sustainable Future Values Improving customer value Creative energy leader Securing the best of talented ·Customer-centered service  for creating sustainable future values and future-oriented people 16.03 % KRW 3.7 trillion 1st innovation ·Creating high-quality jobs Distribution . Expense for environmental . Rank in CDP . · Continuously improving the electric3 4 · Developing capabilities of executives underground lines investment for domestic utility ity quality and employees Reinforcing Improving Customer satisfaction(score) 98.7 98.9 100% 98.8 98 or more · Rationalizing assessment customer value partnership Power cut time(minute) 11.19 10.88 103% 10.53 8.1 and rewards with Hours of voluntary work. 16. 16.2 101% 16.5 20 Realizing sharing and Creating safe and happy stakeholders (hr./person) mutual growth workplaces Number of times voluntary work was 11,500. 11,512. 100% 12,000 13,000 performed(number) ·Reinforcing social contribution  ·Spreading safety and health culture Realizing connecting with core capability sharing and Supporting for eye-opening 100. 172. 172% 100 1,004(2021, total) · Ensuring work-life balance mutual growth surgery(person) ·Expanding win-win growth with SMEs Ratio of purchasing SME products(%) 70 69 99% 70 71 or more Performance for SME export. 31,000 32,755 106% 33,000 38,000 (USD 10,000) Reinforcing partnership with stakeholders Pursuing human-oriented workplace 16.2 hours 10.88 minutes 69 % Hours of voluntary . Power cut time Ratio of purchasing . work per person SME products Organization for Implementing Sustainable Management Since 2005, KEPCO has operated an organization for Corporate Sustainability Management(CSM) to perform Pursuing Securing the best of Hour for training and education . 90. 91.3 101% 95 100 (hr./person) sustainable management in a systematic way. The Corporate Planning Department manages overall tasks rehumanfuture-oriented and talented people lated to sustainable management, and the operational organization is composed of 266 business offices in 34 oriented Ratio of female recruitment(%) 20 or more 25.6 128% 20 or more 20 or more workplace Creating safe and Number of workers hurt in safety 133. 126 106% 98 58 offices(departments) as of April 2015. In the first half of 2014, we operated customized education and sustainaccidents(person) happy workplaces able management workshops three times, reinforcing communication for sustainable management. Employee satisfaction level(score) 74 or more 74.2 100% 74 or more 76 or more Board of Directors 74.2 scores 91.3 hours 25.6 % Employee . Hour for training . Ratio of female satisfaction level and education recruitment Strategic Planning Team Departments & offices CEO at the Corporate Planning at the headquarters, Department Business offices 1) As a result of improvement in electricity supply and demand, the goal amount of demand in the summer of 2014 changed from 2 million kW to 700,000 kW. 2) As demand management business was transferred to the private sector in the mid and long-term period, the goal for peak reduction amount decreased. 3) Due to updated goal for winning an order in the mid and long-term period, the goal for the previous year was changed. Setting the direction Overall planning Implementation 4) Carbon Disclosure Project 14 2015 KEPCO Sustainability Report Company Overview Sustainable Management Five Core Issues Performance Data Appendices 15 Governance Management Performance by the Board of Directors in 2014 Operation of the Board of Directors Structure The Board of Directors deliberates on important decision-making matters such as management goals and Number of BOD meetings 15 Portion of revised resolution 2.4% budget in accordance with the Articles of Incorporation and the BOD regulations. A director who has special Preliminary deliberation rate 92.1% BOD meeting participation rate 98.1% interest with a regulation is not allowed to vote on that particular resolution. The minutes written after conclusion of the BOD are disclosed to stakeholders via postings on KEPCO’s website except for special elements Resolutions 58 cases Non-executive directors’ participation rate 97.4% such as confidential business information. Composition of the Board of Directors Name Category Role Performance for 2014 To secure transparency in corporate management through independent decision making, the majority of Audit Committee. Two non-standing Investigation . Held 8 times in total with a 96% participation rate, . . directors, One on audit . 13 cases for report. KEPCO’s directors are non-executive employees. The Board of Directors is composed of seven executive standing director directors(standing) including the CEO(President) and eight non-executive directors(non-standing). The Chief Nomination Committee. Over the majority Recommendation Held 3 times in total with a 100% participation rate, Director is appointed among non-executive directors to collect opinions on overall management in a fair man. of non-standing of executives. Recommending candidates for non-standing directors. ner. Non-executive directors are appointed from among experts in the economy, environment, society, and directors energy sectors, and they contribute to sustainable management with their advice and proposals for manageManagement. Three non-standing Prior . Held 12 times in total with a 100% participation rate, ment. . directors . deliberation . 12 cases for selling shares of mutual investment Professional . companies(proposal), etc. Committee . Standing Directors(Executive Directors) . Overseas. Two non-standing . Held 12 times in total with a 100% participation rate, . (As of August 2015) . . directors. . Two cases for selling shares of overseas resource . projects(proposal), etc. Cho Hwan-eik Ahn Hong-ryoul Kim Si-ho Park Jung-keun Hyun Sang-Kwon Park Sung-cheol Jang Jae-won Executive meeting CEO and president Standing Executive Vice Executive Vice Chief Strategy Chief New Growth Chief Electricity Commissioner President President Officer Engine Officer Grid Officer Non-standing director meeting Audit Committee of Domestic of Overseas Management meeting Operations Operations Board of directors Nomination Committee Professional Committee Non-standing Directors (Non-executive Directors) Assessment and Reward Ahn Choong-yong Lee Kang-hee Cho Jeon-hyeok Choi Ki-ryun Sung Tae-hyun Koo Ja-yoon Ahn Hyun-ho Kim Joo-sun ESG A Level in 2014 The CEO signs a pact with the Minister of Trade, Industry, and Energy with respect to management objectives 7 Chief Director. Labor and Accounting. Energy. Energy. Energy Public Legislation Best company for during his or her tenure. The progress made with regard to this pact is reviewed by the Performance Appraisal Win-win Growth Environment (Audit) (Economy) (Superconductivity) consecutive Board for Public Corporations. Executive directors sign a management contract with the CEO for management years goals to be achieved and receive incentives based on their performance. The reappointment of non-executive Comprehensive assessment for directors depends on the result of the performance assessment. The directors’ remuneration is decided within Procedure for Appointment of Directors corporate governance structure, society, the range approved at the general shareholders’ meeting, and non-standing directors receive expenses for and environment(Korea Corporate The appointment procedure is specified in the Act on the Operation of Public Organizations and the Articles of Governance Service) their work in accordance with the internal regulations. Association. When appointing the CEO, KEPCO receives applications for the candidate. The CEO is then recommended by the Nomination Committee, consisting of non-standing directors and non-government members, Vitalization of the BOD requested by the Minister of Trade, Industry, and Energy, and finally appointed by the President for a threeTo further activate the BOD, KEPCO has established various systems such as a self-assessment system for opyear term. A standing director is appointed by the CEO after the resolution of the shareholders’ meeting for eration performance of the BOD, publication of a monthly brief to distribute management information, and a two-year term. Standing Commissioner is recommended by the Nomination Committee, approved by the workshops to reinforce the professionalism of newly appointed non-standing directors. As a result, the comSteering Committee, requested by the Minister of Strategy and Finance, and appointed by the President. pany has been appointed as the best public company in the assessment of corporate governance by the Korea Corporate Governance Service for seven consecutive years. We have organized the Nomination Committee Non-executive directors also serve a two-year term and are recommended by the Nomination Committee, apand Audit committee in the BOD to reinforce deliberation and guarantee management engagement by nonproved by the Steering Committee, and appointed by the Minister of Strategy and Finance. To ensure diversity standing directors. and proper representation by the BOD members, we are diversifying the scope of institutions recommending candidates for external directors by asking the Minister of Gender Equality and Family to recommend candiSupporting management activities by non-standing directors dates for female executives. The company reinforces the independence of the committee by excluding the participation of standing directors in the Nomination Committee. KEPCO operates the detailed standards for Providing timely management . Providing monthly brief and mailing service for daily management information information candidates detailed in the operation regulations of the committee to ensure professionalism, which includes Holding a workshop for newly . Sharing the current issues of the company such as bills, electricity understanding of the power industry and extensive experience in management. appointed non-standing directors transaction, and overseas business Management briefing by the CEO Explaining the major management situation by the CEO at the BOD 16 2015 KEPCO Sustainability Report Company Overview Sustainable Management Five Core Issues Performance Data Appendices 17 Risk Risk Management System Major Risks Management KEPCO designates and manages departments in charge for ten risk types in four sectors(management risk, disaster, promotion, and conflict) to prevent risks to management in advance. The departments in charge preReduction of Debts vent and prepare for risks and detect signs for risks by enacting and managing a risk management manual for To address management risks due to debt accumulation, KEPCO has organized the ‘Emergency Response Comeach risk type and take measures based on the organizational system and procedures for recognizing risks. mittee to Reduce Debts’ and newly launched the organization in charge of managing debts. The company has devised a plan for reducing debts for each year by 2017 to execute debt reduction in a more efficient and systemic way. As this plan includes activities for broad management efficiency such as business adjustment, selling assets, and cost reduction we carried out the largest scale debt reduction since the company’s foundation. Category Management risk Disaster Promotion Conflict Performance for Debt Reduction Debt ratio Percentage of financial debts Risk type Deteriorating annual Lack of electricity Promotion based on Complaints over profit performance supply due to rapid crisis in the electricity construction of increase in demand sector transmission and substation facilities Disorder in Damaging corporate Decreased by . 6 %p Decreased by . 5%p electricity supply image due to a Disorder in 136% 130% due to disasters and massive corruption electricity supply due 63% 58% accidents incident related to labor disputes to executives and Disorder in electricity employees supply due to 2013 2014 2013 2014 breakdown in the electricity grid Disorder in electricity supply due to cyber Stock price Moody’s international credit rating terror attacks Crisis due to epidemic Upgraded by . 1 rating Increased by . 23% KRW KRW A1 Aa3 Stable 34,750 42,700 2013 2014 2013 2014 Composition of the Emergency Response Institution for Company-wide Crisis Increased market capitalization by KRW 5.1 trillion compared to late 2013 Report Institution in charge Crisis Management Committee Cooperation Relevant institution Relevant organization Spread Crisis Response Headquarters Disasters and Accidents Partners Collaboration For efficient disaster and crisis management, KEPCO secures response personnel including cooperating companies and equipment and aids such as the Disaster Action Management System(DAMS), manual, materials, Situation . Emergency . Public . Administration External . and devices. We also cultivate our capability for crisis management through regular training. In 2015, the Management Team Recovery Team Relations Team Support Team Cooperation Team company launched the Disaster Management Team at the headquarters and established disaster management departments at all district divisions in response to the 2014 Sewol Ferry Incident. We also launched the Crisis Response Headquarters for each business branch Comprehensive Disaster Situation room with the advanced ICT facilities in connection with movement of the headquarters to significantly supplement the company’s disaster response system. The company removes risk elements by not only checking power facilities regularly for prevention, taking measures for reinforcing safe Business branch Business branch Business branch Business branch management of facilities at certain periods such as thawing season and summertime and implementing largescale diagnosis for safety. In 2015, as we increased the budget for supplementing facilities and maintenance by 27% compared to the previous year, the company has continuously strived to prevent facility-related acciThe level of crisis is divided into four stages: Attention, Caution, Alert, and Serious. At the Attention level, the dents and minimize damage caused by disasters. departments in charge detect signs for crisis. At the Caution level, the departments in charge check the cooperative system through communicating about the situation with overall supervising departments, relevant departments, and relevant institutions. At the Alert level, the company establishes measures and checks the plan for response. We operate the Crisis Response Headquarters and carry out activities for crisis response at the serious level. 18 2015 KEPCO Sustainability Report Company Overview Sustainable Management Five Core Issues Performance Data Appendices 19 Ethical Strategy for Ethical Management Heightening Integrity Management ‘To realize KEPCO as a company with integrity trusted by the people’ by establishing our strategy for ethical To heighten employees’ awareness about integrity, KEPCO carried out company-wide campaigns by enacting management, KEPCO strives to become a global ethical company by creating an ethical environment that prethe ten major principles for the Code of Ethics as well as integrity education. We shared our commitment for vents corruption and reinforcing activities for controlling corruption practices. integrity and missions for innovation through various resolution events to prevent any corruption in the entire company. KEPCO also held integrity festivals for promoting ethical management while operating an on-going Ethical Brand : Clean light! KEPCO employee improvement system. Thanks to these activities, we were able to improve our systems by identifying 59 tasks through the results of various contests for anticorruption essays and ideas. We have also focused our capabilVision Realizing a trusted and respected KEPCO with integrity ity on heightening a culture of integrity by operating customized ethical education programs for each stakeholder. Four mid and Elaboration of ethical Settle down global best Control corruption Establishing strict Program Major content long-term management system ethical culture Strength effort corporate discipline strategies Integrity contract for jobs by Integrity contract with CEO of institutions and standing audit directors . executives (12 persons) Ethical pledge for each phase . Applicants for recruitment(35,004 persons), Employees for promotion in Exchange Self-survey for integrity(twice a year), Diagnosis for level of ethical management(once a year) of lifecycle each position(2,175 persons) activities Integrity agreement with suppliers. Signing an integrity agreement for suppliers in the company . Organizations Leaders for ethical (840 companies) Voluntary in charge of CEO/management Integrity T/F & selfpractice and staff in Pledge for the Code of Conduct. Suppliers concluding a contract with KEPCO(12,327 companies). participation of Code of Ethics operation engines leadership audit organization charge of Code of for suppliers employees Conduct Integrity and ethics festival. Integrity slogans, Integrity Golden Bell, Announcing best cases, etc. . . (101 persons including Electricity group companies, Korea Electrical Ten major principles Contractors Association, and integrity partners) in the Code of Ethics Holding clean newsletter. Providing information regarding integrity and ethics . for KEPCO Employees (employees and 13,895 suppliers) Securing Efficiency in the Ethical Regulations Ethical consultation center, Participating in consultation for ethical dilemma and discussion . Detailed Guideline(12 Factors) In July 2012, KEPCO established the Code of Conduct for Suppliers which incorporates the ten principles Discussion forum (10,344 persons) of the UN Global Compact, OECD company guidelines, and ILO labor and environment guidelines. In Number of Handled Integrity puzzle, Self-diagnosis for Five sectors including Jeong(righteousness in Korean) Puzzle and selfComplaints (Unit : case) ethics diagnosis for corruption(340,828 persons) Ethical standard connection with the electronic bidding system, we reflected the Code of Conduct for Suppliers(12,327 3,230 companies) to conditions for bidding. With the amendment of the Code of Conduct for Executives and 2,829 · No bribery including money . 2,653 and valuables employees, the company expanded the target for evading jobs due to personal interest to ‘persons who Operating a Multi-channel and Customized Reporting System · No collusion and illegal subcontracting find it difficult to implement work fairly, including workers at the same department for five years before KEPCO operates various channels for reporting corruption cases such as autonomous reporting, irrational · No solicitation retirement.’ cases, and the on-site report center. To protect the identities of people who report unfair and illegal cases, the · Mandatory ethical training . of employees company has consigned the Anonymity Report System in May 2014. The system is available 24 hours a day via 2012 2013 2014 smartphone, and sends reports to an external institution to support reporting. Ethical Regulations KEPCO has enacted the Code of Ethics to strive to become a transparent and clean company. Channel for Reporting Irrational Cases Social standard Rate of Grievance Cases that · Compliance with tax and labor Were Timely Managed (Unit : %) Regulations Number of reported cases Reporting . regulations Code of . Guideline . Category Disclosing the identity Notes · Providing legal labor Code of Ethics 10 Major for Operation Code of . 2013 2014 method Conduct for for Practice by for KEPCO Principles for of Contract for Conduct for · No child labor Executives and Executives and 98.4 98.8 98.3 Internal/Autonomous . · No discrimination based on . Employees Ethical Practice Job Integrity by Suppliers 4 1 Real name/Anonymity Online Intranet Employees Employees report race or gender Executives Irrational Case Report 65 112 Anonymity Online External website Center Providing the enclosed On-site Report Center 7 14 Anonymity Postcard for report Environmental standard Education for Ethics and Integrity postcard Anonymity Report · Compliance with environmental KEPCO has implemented special integrity education for executives and employees at the headquarters and 2012 2013 2014 26 Anonymity Online External consignment System and safety regulations · Distribution of eco-friendly operated 28 courses such as a course for new employees through the HR Development Center as well as a technology cyber course for suppliers’ employees. The company also conducted integrity education for visiting business Current Status of Disciplinary · Providing the safe work sites and fostered 80 integrity leaders. Actions for Unfair and Illegal Operating the Compliant Report and Handling System environment · Realizing environment-focused Practices KEPCO has consolidated the submission of complaints, which used to be reported through various channels management  Number of persons . Performance for Operation of Integrity Education punished(Unit : person) such as the Internet, into the in-company System called the Sinmungo. The company received 2,829 cases in Corruption case(Unit : case) 2014 and completed handling of 98.3% of cases within seven business days(seven days is the standard we set Category Education name Target Number of people for handling cases). The company operates the complaint handling system in a transparent and reasonable Special education. Integrity education for CEO and standing audit. High-ranking officials such as the 1,079. 45 directors. management, all employees at . 33 manner through a team of non-executive directors called the KEPCO ombudsmen, which independently re. headquarters 21 view results. In total, they have handled eight complaints. Education for integrity . Special lecture for integrity by inviting external Participants at the integrity and . 101. 10 personnel ethics festival 15 On-site education Integrity education with visiting business sites All employees at business sites 9,378 Strict Disciplinary Actions for Corruption HR Development Integrity education for employees for job Employees joining the HR . 2,787. 7 KEPCO established the Real Name Disclosure System for the first time as a public company in 2014 and disCenter education Development Center closed the real names of 13 major persons who conducted unfair and illegal practices, creating an environCyber education Cyber integrity education All employees and supplier 5,846 ment to prevent unfair and illegal practices. The company also operates strong regulation measures such as 2012 2013 2014 cancellation of contract for companies providing bribes with regard to implementing and signing a contract. 20 2015 KEPCO Sustainability Report Company Overview Sustainable Management Five Core Issues Performance Data Appendices 21 Stakeholder Under the management slogan of Maximizing Effectiveness by Sharing Wisdom, KEPCO has collected opinions Performance for Performance for operation of VOC in 2014 (Unit : Case) Performance for announcement of (Unit : Case) Communication and communicated both internally and externally to create sustainable values. The company strives to ensure corporate information in 2014 information disclosure and on-going communication based on trust. and Engagement integrated management Phone 202 Autonomous public . announcement in 2014 announcement 43 To proactively reflect all our stakeholders’ important opinions in management activities, KEPCO has commitIntegrated . . Others 84 Regular public . ted great efforts in building our relationships with them through various communication channels such as a Information disclosure management . announcement 4 announcement contest for people’s ideas and SNS. As a result, the company received the best prize in the SNS sector of Korea . . . Communication Best Awards in 2014. As the company introduced a pilot method to select the location led by a Number of Number of Items for . . requesting . . deciding . public . third party and implemented consultation for mitigating conflicts by utilizing private professional institutions, information information announ-. . . . 14,907 132 Public announcement . we have reinforced activities for sharing the current issues in the electricity industry and managing conflicts disclosure disclosure cement by the SEC(Securities . Internet 8,255 and Exchange . to smoothly construct power facilities. The company has also carried out activities for creating value based 541 419 37 Commission) 64 on mutual cooperation through the government-sharing channels, such as regular exchange with partners for conducting domestic and overseas business projects and holding a presentation. Customer center 4,468 Current status of . corporate group 4 Other systems 1,898 Fair public . announcement 17 Efforts to Communicate with Each Stakeholder on Issues of Concern External Internal Stakeholder Major interests Communication methods Communication and Efforts to Address Issues · Diversifying · SNS, Meetings · Vitalization of online communication, 1,473 cases for people’s proposals for · Held meetings for consumer groups led by the CEO two times and service improvement management special lectures 43 times People, communication channels Customers · Operated the portal of ‘Debt Information 3.0’, designating the department · Set up the website to enhance convenience for customers in charge of managing the Environment Information Disclosure System, and · Operated college student supporters(123 students) opening information in a timely manner · Enhancing . · IR, Public announcement · Implemented high-intensity debt reduction . · Held 36 IR meetings for domestic and overseas investors(NYSE, etc.), Shareholders, corporate value · General shareholders’ meetings (achieved 130% of debt ratio, exceeded KRW 1 trillion in net profits, . three general shareholders’ meetings, and management public Investors and increased market capitalization by KRW 5.1 trillion) announcement(four times on a regular basis) · Operated Miryang conflict solution program(constructed a renewable farm, · Implemented consultation for addressing conflicts by utilizing private · Property rights, · Public hearing provided medical support, and purchased local specialties) professional institutions(three cases including Buk-Ansan Substation) Local Environment rights · Social contribution · Adopted the pilot method to select the location for elasticity facilities led by a · Operated 119 disaster rescue squad, the only case among public communities third party(Player : KEPCO → Social group) institutions(provided support for Sinking of Sewol Ferry and . oil leakage in Yeosu) · Decision on policy · Seminar, Forum · Reported the current issues to the CEO of institutions eight times, operated . · Cooperative system for dealing with the market . Government, · Leading by the public · Cooperation channels the system at the National Assembly for each executive, and held the practical (Smart Grid sector : KEPCO-KT, . Relevant opinions committee Renewable sector : KEPCO-Korea Water Resources Corporation) institutions · Producing electricity . · On-site VOC · Held presentation for win-win growth with SMEs . · Signed an agreement for technology consulting between . H/W and S/W · Presentation (125 companies, March 2014) KEPCO and private generator Domestic · Creating the ecosystem partners · Held technology presentation & exhibition. · Established the joint information portal with electricity group (100 companies, June 2014) companies · Winning a joint order · Regular exchange · Held CEPSI 2014(2,589 attendees, 36 countries, October 2014) . · Utilized strategic partners to win an overseas order . · Providing finance · Benchmarking → Largest number of participants since the company’s foundation (Westinghouse Electric Company) Overseas · Strategic partners partners · Carried out global business projects by exchanging with J-Power, . Japan and State Grid Corporation of China · Executing value · Direct announcement by the CEO · Expanded channels for sharing visions and core values . · Company-wide meetings with business site directors . Executives and · Vision portal (Opening the portal → Proclamation event → Concert for each region) (once on a half-yearly basis), CEO communication mails sent four times · Portal for giving a management employees advice · Realized trust-based HWP site . (fostering 284 company-wide execution leaders) · Profits for labor union · Labor-Management committee · Institution : Labor-Management Committee and Labor Joint Committee both · 1,489 presentations for explanation of current issues at business sites members · Joint committee convened three times and Wage Negotiation Committee convened two times and 1,508 times of communication workshops Labor union · Workshop · On-site focus : 1 Labor-Management Committee convened and meetings . were held a total of 1,017 times 22 2015 KEPCO Sustainability Report Company Overview Sustainable Management Five Core Issues Performance Data Appendices 23 Materiality Assessment and Drawing Major Issues Matrix for Materiality Assessment 1. Stability Process for Determining Report Content high in electricity supply KEPCO identifies various expectations and interests posed by internal and external stakeholders and effectively deals with sustain4. Business for next-generation technology able issues. The company conducted the materiality assessment to report the performances in the Sustainability Report in a trans3. Ethical management and parent way. The process for materiality assessment was carried out by complying with major aspects recommended by the GRI G4 Creating jobs and improving welfare anti-corruption Generating economic value 11. Reinforcing Guidelines and process for setting the boundary, determining priorities based on influence on stakeholder assessment and deciInfluence for stakeholders research and 5. Reinforcing capability of executive and employees 2. Efforts to develop sion-making and significance of economic, environmental, and social influences from the business perspective, and implementing development eco-friendly technology the process for verifying and reviewing efficiency in compliance with the principle for completing the report. 12. F  air trade and 8. Reinforcing safety Preventing and managing conflicts with stakeholders contract transparency and health 7. Improving energy Compliance with efficiency Customer health and safety Process for Drawing Material Issues environmental Eco-friendly 10. Coping with Enhance Customer Satisfaction legislations management activities 6. Win-win climate change growth the SMEs STEP 1 Identifying Sustainable Management Issues Respect human diversity Establishing energy valley Realizing energy welfare Based on economic, environmental, and social influences on all of KEPCO’s activities, products, services, and relations and influExpanding 9. Strategy for social Expanding sustainability . ences on stakeholder assessment and decision-making, the company identified aspects and other related topics. A list of 25 items overseas with suppliers contribution business was made by considering the list presented by the GRI G4 Guidelines and topics on stakeholder interest. Preserving biodiversity Low Cases for Identifying Issues – Result of Media Analysis Summary of Result of Media Research Low Significance for economy, environment, and society high Among the total of 15,041 cases reported through the media in 2014, KEPCO extracted 3,828 cases of effective articles with regard Priority Major issues(Aspect) to sustainable management. After categorizing these cases into the 3.94% 10.79% 35.76% 49.51% General Environment Society Economy High(5). Stability in electricity supply, Efforts to develop eco-friendly technology, Ethical management and. economic, environmental, and social sectors, these articles were anti-corruption, Business for next-generation technology, Reinforcing capability of executive and employees divided into positive/neutral/negative types depending on value Medium(7). Win-win growth with SMEs, Improving energy efficiency, Reinforcing safety and health, Strategy for social contribution, decision. The major article content in each sector is as follows. Coping with climate change, Reinforcing research and development, Fair trade and contract transparency 11.05% 12.51% 76.44% Neutral Negative Positive STEP 3 Verification and Review of Efficiency Economy Surplus in operating profits thanks to increased electricity bill, Developing Smart Grid comprehensive system, Completing the Sustainability material aspects were reflected and systemized in the major content of the Sustainability Report 2015 in considerathermal power plant worth USD 2.5 billion in Saudi Arabia, Proclaiming the vision of Plan for New Century tion of meaning, scope, boundary, reporting period, and limitation. Through this report, KEPCO aims to express the company’s Society S  haring Energy in Love project, Labor-Management agreement for 11 items in lax management, Social contribution activities for sustainability performance in a reasonable and balanced way, including positive and negative influences. To enable KEPCO’s stakePro-bono, Holding an event for resolution of integrity and ethics, Local residents’ complaints when beginning the operation of the transmission tower in Miryang holders to assess corporate performance, the company actively collected stakeholders’ feedback, including a survey for readers’ Environment Holding a ceremony for pledge of energy saving, Announcing a plan for creating an eco-friendly energy-independent island in opinions to allow them to proactively express their opinions. Ulleungdo, Violating the Environmental Impact Assessment Act, Imposing penalty on KEPCO for constructing the transmission tower Major issue Material issue Reporting scope Reporting . major issues STEP 2 Determining Priorities in Sustainable Management Issues External . . . . . . . Government, . . To select priorities for identifying sustainable management issues, the company conducted an online survey for 1,385 KEPCO’s Internal People, Shareholders, Local . . . . Customers . Investors . communities. . Relevant . Partners . stakeholders. Based on the result, we identified issues with high influence in stakeholders’ decision-making as stakeholder influinstitutions ence. We then assessed our corporate mission, strategy, sustainability trends, corporate core capability and business influence with 1. Stability in . .Availability & Reliability 1. Respecting Customers. electricity supply. . .. ● .. ● .. ● . .. ● . . their economic, social, and environmental significance. After examining the influence on stakeholders and economic, social, and Demand-Side Management environmental significance, the qualitative and quantitative analysis was carried out to determine material aspects, and then we 2. Efforts to develop eco-friendly Products and Services. ● . . ● . . ● . . 2. Adding Technology. technology organized the material assessment matrix. 3. Ethical management and . Anti-corruption. . . . . . . Ethical Management. ● ● anti-corruption Influence Significance 4. Business for next-generation Research & Development. ● . . ● . . ● . . 2. Adding Technology. technology I nfluence on stakeholder assessment Aspects which can have an impact on the 5. Reinforcing capability of executive Training and Education. . . . . . . 5. Caring People. and decision-making implementation of organization’s mission and employees ● and strategy · Assessing influence of issues through stakeholder survey 6. Win-win growth . Anti-competitive Behavior. . . . . . . 4. Joining Humanity. · Sustainability risks and opportunities, Challenges identified . ● · Topics and indexes presented by stakeholders the SMEs in the same business · Identifying expectations and interests of financial stakeholders 7. Improving energy efficiency Energy ● ● ● 3. Preserving Environment · Corporate core capability and value 8. Reinforcing safety . . Occupational Health and Safety . . . . . . 5. Caring People. · Significance of influence on corporate long-term performance and health. . . ● . ● . . ● . . ● . Employment 9. Strategy for social contribution Local Communities 4. Joining Humanity Determination of material aspects : Conducting quantitative and qualitative survey . ● ● 10. Coping with climate change Emissions 3. Preserving Environment for aspects with high significance to the interest of core stakeholders ● ● ● 11. Reinforcing research & development Research & Development ● ● ● 2. Adding Technology 12. Fair trade and contract transparency Anti-competitive Behavior ● ● 4. Joining Humanity 24 2015 KEPCO Sustainability Report Company Overview Sustainable Management Five Core Issues Performance Data Appendices 25 Five Core Issues 01. Respecting Customers 26 02. Adding Technology 32 03. Preserving Environment 40 04. Joining Humanity 48 05. Caring People 58 Creating Value with Stakeholders KEPCO strives to create better future value with all stakeholders. Our closer communication based on trust will ensure a clean and convenient energy world, contributing to a brighter future. 26 2015 KEPCO Sustainability Report Company Overview Sustainable Management Five Core Issues Performance Data Appendices 27 01. Respecting Customers. Realizing Customer Value Realizing Customized Customer Service To ensure customer convenience in paying electricity bills, KEPCO has provided various customized services, including the introduction of a selective system for the date of paying bills, expanding the target for paying bills by credit card, issuing customized bills for the elderly, and implementing a call-back service to make calls along with the consultation time desired by customers. The company has strengthened corporate social responsibility by launching a new system to reduce electricity bills at slaughterhouses for pigs, cows, and chickens to relieve the burden of stock farms and conducting an electricity bill discount system for traditional markets to OUR APPROACH support small merchants. As a result, KEPCO achieved the highest level for 16 consecutive years in the public institution customer satisfaction level assessment in 2014.(KEPCO is the only public company to have accomIn the rapidly changing environment of the energy industry, the electricity industry is at an important point to raise efficiency and plished this.) KEPCO will listen to even the seemingly smallest opinion of customers as we grow to become a competitiveness and develop optimized measures for using electric energy. Based on energy solutions connecting to IT technology, KEPKEPCO with Happy and Trusted Energy with Customers. CO will not only fulfill its original mission to supply high-quality and stable electricity, but also improve the people’s happiness through communication, sympathy, and service innovation. Major Issues in the Result of Materiality Assessment Improved Customer Satisfaction ㅣ Stability in Electricity Supply Serving customers Checking facilities Flow of Call-back Service Highest level for 16 consecutive years Applying for Entering numbers Connecting to a Providing Public company customer satisfaction level consultation to receive representative(call-back) service Reinforcing Security for Customer Information To reinforce customer information protection and enhance people’s trust, KEPCO has improved the procedure for the collection and content on personal information, which is needed in the process of applying for electricity use, and established the standard procedure for treating customers and providing information to check customer identification. KEPCO will continuously manage the protection of customer information by reinforcing security education for the customer center and inspection suppliers and operating a management register for personal information. OUR PERFORMANCE OUR PLAN 16 consecutive 1.03 million Supplying the world’s highest quality Example for the System of Consent on SMS Personal Information Collection years kW electricity by utilizing next-generation technology Report Consent to the collection of System Achieved the highest . Amount of reduced 1 change of name 2 personal information 3 registration level of customer satisfaction . electricity peak Pursuing customer happiness level as a public company by improving and operating 10.88 minutes 3.69% a customer-focused system Realizing zero level of emergency in off the supply and demand of electricity Consent to the collection Receiving text Consent to the Personal SAIDI for a year T&D loss rate through systemic demand management of personal information message collection of personal information DB Sanding text message information KEPCO Customers KEPCO 28 2015 KEPCO Sustainability Report Company Overview Sustainable Management Five Core Issues Performance Data Appendices 29 Improvement of Supplying High-quality Electricity Plan for the Optimized Electricity Grid Electricity Quality KEPCO has the world’s best capability for supplying electric power and manages nationwide power facilities efKEPCO has established the optimized electricity grid to prepare for increasing electricity demand and supply ficiently by utilizing advanced equipment such as thermal infrared cameras and ultrasonic wave diagnosis equiphigh-quality electricity to customers in a stable manner. After drafting the 6th long-term transmission and subment and unmanned aerial vehicle equipment(robotic drones). To deal with problems swiftly, the company station facility plan(2013), the company has established and implemented plans for each level, focusing on organizes and operates a taskforce team which is composed of in-company experts. Through activities for premaximizing utilization of the existing transmission and substation facilities and building the transmission grid venting outage such as free inspections of power facilities for major customers, SAIDI in 2014 was 10.88 minutes, of the future to set up the electricity grid in harmony with human beings and the environment. which decreased by 5.2% compared to the previous year and is now the best in the world. The company also achieved the honor of recording the world’s first rank in the electricity supply sector in World Bank’s Doing BusiFirst, the company conducted re-planning for the electricity grid in consideration of changes in business condiWorld’s ness for 2014. tions. We reassessed the existing plans in the short-term and adjusted 96 business projects by precisely ana1st Rank lyzing the demand and plans for a long-term plan. Through these activities, the company achieved financial We provided electricity supply without any defects in major national events such as the visit by the pope and the World Bank performance worth KRW 392.2 billion, as well as optimization of the electricity grid plan. Assessment Incheon Asian Games. We achieved 99.9% in maintenance of distribution voltage, 74.3% in load rate, and 3.69% in in the electricity T&D loss rate by applying smart electricity systems such as distribution automation system and FACTS(Flexible AC supply sector Second, the company established the electricity grid plan and improved the system in consideration of human Transmission System). KEPCO will continuously maintain the world’s highest quality electricity supply by utilizing beings and environment. Through precise analysis of performance for operating facilities and improvement in next-generation technology such as IoT(Internet of Things) and Big Data. standards, we secured 2,462MW for additional capacity in transformers. In accordance with implementation of the ‘law on compensation and support for areas near transmission and Change in SAIDI and T&D Loss Rate transformation of power facilities(law on compensation for the arㅈea, July 2014)’, the company also established the system for supporting the law on compensation for the area to make reasonable measures of comSAIDI(minute) pensation for local residents. We launched the direct compensation system for each local resident in regions where transmission and substation facilities were constructed to enhance satisfaction level of local residents. 12.07 11.53 10.88 Lastly, KEPCO made a plan for developing and applying new electricity grid technology to establish the future electricity grid. We made a plan for adopting the world’s first real power system based on a superconductivity 2012 2013 2014 cable system with direct current(DC) of 80kV and Korea’s first 500kV 3GW direct current transmission project. T&D loss rate(%) By making a plan for applying FACTS(Flexible AC Transmission System) to the super-high voltage system, the company not only improved people’s trust in the electricity grid, but also saved about KRW 1,450 billion a year of electricity purchase. To establish the Northeast Super Grid for the government-led Eurasia Initiative ImpleDiagnosis for electricity facilities 3.57 3.73 3.69 utilizing drone mentation, we developed a business model and made an execution plan. Based on these efforts, KEPCO established the optimized plan by placing high importance on universal values in harmony with human beings and environment to supply high-quality electricity. Supplying Electricity to More Areas KEPCO carries out electricity supply business based on requests by local governments for remote and isolated regions where it is difficult to supply electricity due to geographical conditions. In 2014, the company completed securing electricity supply for 120 households in remote and isolated regions. In March 2015, there were Russia a total of 275 households in remote and isolated regions without access to the transmission and distribution Mongol grid, including 121 households that did meet the requirement in the Act on the Promotion of Electrification in Agricultural and Fishing Villages. This number has decreased through our continuous investments in facilities and expansion of dispersed generation in isolated regions(Microgrid). Korea Japan China Current Status of Transmission and Distribution Facilities in 2014 Building completion ceremony for superconductivity. Future Business Model for Northeast Asia Super Grid with direct current of 80kV 285,242MVA 32,795c-km Capacity of Substation Facilities 457,247c-km (3,646c-km of underground lines) (42,536c-km of . underground lines) Transmission line Distribution line 765kV, 345kV : 10,063c-km . Substation : 805 units . Support : 8,832,000 units . 154kV, 66kV, DC 180kV : 22,732c-km (675 unmanned substations) Transformer : 2.09 million units 30 2015 KEPCO Sustainability Report Company Overview Sustainable Management Five Core Issues Performance Data Appendices 31 Management Systemic Demand Management and Promotion of Stability in Supply and Demand Establishing the Emergency Response System for Electricity Supply and Demand of Electricity KEPCO supports stability in electricity supply and demand by systematically managing demand. Through To enhance the capability to respond to emergencies in electricity supply and demand in the summer and preparations for potential crises in electricity supply and demand, the company enhances energy efficiency by winter when reserves are expected to be insufficient, KEPCO operates the emergency situation room for elecDemand operating various electricity demand control systems. These systems include ‘controlling demand for a desigtricity supply and demand in cooperation with relevant institutions. In 2014, 4,590 executives and employees nated period’ in which business vacation and schedule for repair and maintenance are shifted to a period with participated in the system and prepared for electricity supply and demand emergencies. While conducting drill high electricity demand and ‘controlling demand with weekly notice’ in which electricity demand is temporarily exercises for each emergency situation in electricity supply and demand such as the cold wave in the winter decreased, depending on the electricity supply and demand situation. As of 2015, domestic electricity supply and heat wave in the summer, the company has established the electricity supply and demand response sysand demand is expected to reach 92.44 million kW in electricity facility capacity and 82.48 million kW in peak tem to share real-time supply and demand information through various channels, such as conducting a street demand, as well as 9.96 million kW in reserves(12.1% in reserve rate). This is projected to lead to stable electriccampaign and holding concerts for saving energy and using SNS and text messages. As a result, we reduced the Drill exercise for electricity supply. ity supply and demand. and demand emergency electricity peak by 1.03 million kW(equivalent to one unit at a nuclear facility). Just as the company achieved zero emergencies in electricity supply and demand in 2014 to raise people’s trust, KEPCO will continuously Performance for Demand Control Business in 2014 strive to ensure stable electricity supply and demand. Category Major business Performance for reduction Conducting New Business for Electricity Demand Control Business for High-efficiency devices , Ice storage cooling system , 1) 2) improving efficiency Peak demand management device, etc. 396,861MWh. KEPCO has carried out various ‘new business projects to control electricity demand’, inducing shift in the paradigm for demand control. First, the company supports expansion of the demand control market by supporting Business for Demand control for a designated period, Utilization of managing load private supply capability3), etc. 2,198MW. private business operators in the demand resource trade market(Negawatt1) market), which was launched in November 2014. The company also established a consulting system and conducted its pilot project from late Energy-saving concert May 2015, including passing down knowhow for demand control to small and mid-sized demand control busiProspect for Mid and Long-term Supply and Demand Peak demand(10,000kW) ness operators who find it difficult to develop an operational system. KEPCO then provides measuring data (Source : 7th Basic Plan for Electricity Supply and Demand) Electricity facility capacity(10,000kW) in relation to this task. Second, the company strategically deals with policy changes such as expansion of the Reserve rate(%) demand control basis through convergence of ICT technology. We will make great efforts to induce voluntary 8,248 2015 12.1 energy-saving efforts and provide opportunities to create profits by analyzing KEPCO’s Big Data about electric9,244 ity such as electricity consumption patterns for each business type and region and providing information and 9,726 consulting services customized for the needs of customers and demand control business operators. 2020 23.2 1) Negawatt: Policies and activities acquiring the same utility as expansion of generators by reducing the amount of energy use through 11,981 improvement in energy efficiency 11,193 2029 21.6 13,610 Peak demand for Each Year Peak demand and Reserve in the (Unit : 10,000kW) Summer and Winter of 2014 (Unit : 10,000kW, %) Winter 8,015 2014.7.25 2014.12.17 Summer 15:00 11:00 . 7,599 7,652 Facility capacity 8,667 9,322 INTERVIEW “As a company that spends KRW 200 million on its electricity bill a year, load management is a core issue. As saving 7,383 7,605 Supply capability 8,413 8,936 7,313 costs can lead to corporate competitiveness, the adjustment of peak electricity for the summer allowed us to not 7,429 7,402 Peak demand 7,605 8,015 only receive a refund of KRW 53 million from KEPCO, but also save about KRW 5 billion in total electricity bills.” 7,219 Meeting with the Company 6,989 Reserve rate(%) 808(10.6) 921(11.5) that Won the Best Prize in Rho Jun-ho, Team Leader of Korea Zinc Co., Ltd, which received the Best Prize in the load management sector 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Electricity Demand Control of the 8th Electricity Demand Control Best Awards held by KEPCO in October 2014, said that the company saves energy through scientific load management by considering the company’s characteristics with its high percent‘Saving KRW 5 billion Measures for Each Emergency Level in Electricity Supply and Demand age of electricity bills in costs. with Performance in Load Management through Scientific Methods’ “From 2013, the company began to operate the summertime system and advanced the peak time by one hour. Alert level for supply and demand Reserve Necessary measures (10,000kW) We have also reduced electricity waste by carrying out electricity-saving patrol activities during the load time · Organizing and operating a group for taking measures . Preparation 500 for electricity supply and demand for the summer and winter. As the company reflects the department’s best performance in saving energy to Attention 400 · Implementing demand control(weekly notice system, etc.) the year-end team-based assessment, employees are continuously motivated to save energy. As a result, all Caution 300 · Shifting the tap for distribution transformers manually . employees make saving energy part of their way of life.” and adjusting voltage Alert 200 · Conducting demand control(Emergency power saving ) 4) Team Leader Rho Jun-ho attributed the honor of receiving the prize to the employees, saying : “We could not Serious 100 · Performing emergency load adjustment(circulatory power cut) splurge on electricity, consuming massive amount of resources in a country without resources for even a drop of oil. Saving a little amount of energy is the beginning of a real sense of ownership. I sincerely appreciate all 1) High-efficiency devices : Devices for improving efficiency to increase load rate such as high-efficiency lighting devices, inverters,. Rho Jun-ho, refrigerators, etc. Team Leader of Korea Zinc Co., Ltd. the employees who endured all the inconvenience as we carried out our company’s energy-saving activities.” 2) Ice storage cooling system : Facilities that are used in the daytime that feature reduced electrical consumption at nighttime . for refrigeration 3) Utilizing private supply capability : Utilizing self-generators owned by business or regional electricity business operators 4) Emergency power saving : System in which the company signs a contract with customers in advance to prepare for imbalance in . electricity supply and demand, and customers adjust the load by requests of KEPCO 32 2015 KEPCO Sustainability Report Company Overview Sustainable Management Five Core Issues Performance Data Appendices 33 02. Adding Technology Accelerating Conducting 32 Projects in 17 Countries in the World Inroads into the Since our first entry into the Philippines in 1995, KEPCO has carried out business in not only in Southeast Asia but also the Middle East, Central and South America, and Africa. The company currently conducts 32 projects in Global Market various sectors including the nuclear power, thermal power, renewable energy, and transmission and distribution sectors in 17 countries. Nuclear Power : Construction of High-quality Nuclear Facility in the UAE OUR APPROACH In 2009, KEPCO won its first overseas nuclear power plant project ; this project is worth USD 18.6 billion and is for constructing four 1400MW units of Korean-standard nuclear reactors(APR1400, 5,600MW in total) in the UAE. After Along with the stagnant growth in the domestic electricity demand, easing regulations in the electricity market of emerging countries, and excompleting construction of the first unit in May 2017, the company will construct the remaining three by 2020. We pansion of private generation(IPP, Independent Power Plant), KEPCO has accelerated entry into the overseas market based on our experience have achieved milestones in major processes without difficulty, including early installation of the reactor vessel in the domestic and overseas electricity business, brand, and competitiveness. Through these efforts, we will not only secure future growth enfor the first unit(May 2014), first placement of concrete for the third unit(September 2014), and initial energization gines but also pioneer the global market by reinforcing our next-generation technology competitiveness. of the first unit(April 2015). To win additional orders following the UAE, the company is proactively conducting marketing activities such as nuclear facility road shows and presentations for Korean-standard nuclear facilities Initial energization of the first unit of for countries such as Saudi Arabia, Czech Republic, South Africa, and Vietnam. Major Issues in the Result of Materiality Assessment . the nuclear facility in the UAE Expanding Overseas Business ㅣ Reinforcing R&D ㅣ Making Business with Next-generation Technology Thermal Power and Renewable Energy : Pioneering in Central and South America and Africa, following Southeast Asia, China, and the Middle East Operating power plants in Ilijan, Cebu, and Naga in the Philippines successfully, KEPCO accounts for 10% of the nation’s entire electricity supply as a secondary foreign generation business operator. For China, the company operates generation business of 6,887MW in Shanxi, while attempting to lay the foundation as the largest overseas wind power business operator in China by operating or constructing wind power plants of 1,315MW in total in Inner Mongolia, Liaoning, and Gansu. In the Middle East, we won consecutive orders and have currently created stable profits for the Al Qatrana Power Project, Jordan in 2008, thermal power plants in Rabigh, Saudi Arabia in 2009, Shuweihat S3 Gas Power Project, UAE in 2010, and Amman Diesel Internal Combustion Generation Project, Jordan in 2012. As we successfully completed construction of the Norte 2 gas thermal power plant in Mexico in late 2013, the company established an outpost for expanding our advance into the electricity market in Central and South America. In November 2013, we expanded entry into Africa by acquiring the operation right for the Egbin gas plant in Nigeria. Transmission, Distribution, and Renewable Energy : Diversifying Overseas Business Portfolio KEPCO has proactively conducted projects by utilizing our world-renowned technological knowhow accumulated in the domestic electricity grid business, including winning an order for transmission and distribution construction and consulting for businesses in Kazakhstan, Egypt, Myanmar, and Saudi Arabia. The company signed an agreement for joint establishment of a Microgrid with Powerstream, Canada, North America in September 2014 for business diversification. In concluding an agreement for conducting new business such as Smart Grid with four countries in Central Agreement for joint establishment. and South America in April 2015, we have solidified our foundation for conducting overseas business. of microgrid in Canada Establishing the Global Energy Belt Based on world-renowned technology, brand value, and accumulated capability for overseas business, KEPCO has planned and carried out our goal for creating KRW 12 trillion and 300 billion, which is 15% of company-wide OUR PERFORMANCE OUR PLAN sales, in the overseas sector by 2020. The company created the ‘Bitgaram Energy Valley’ in the region where we 3.9trillion 5.5GW moved our headquarters in December 2014 to establish the global energy hub. Based on this hub, we will create Generating over 15% of total company-wide a new future for overseas business through the ‘Global Energy Belt’ connecting North and Central America, South KRW sales from the overseas sector by 2020 by America, Africa, Middle East, and Asia. Sales from overseas . business W Capacity of overseas . generation facilities. establishing the Global Energy Belt (based on shares) Overseas Sales Portfolio Leading the new business sector by devel 32cases 52MW oping 12 major strategic technologies and Renewable energy 14% Ratio of Overseas Revenue to Total Revenue conducting businesses Nuclear power 23% 15% Securing core . Establishing Establishing the world’s largest ESS for Resource . strategic . technology(total) the world’s largest ESS for frequency regulation frequency regulation 6% 7% 12% development 8% 2013 2015 2018 2020 Transmission and . Overseas sales distribution 11% New business 6% Thermal power 38% 34 2015 KEPCO Sustainability Report Company Overview Sustainable Management Five Core Issues Performance Data Appendices 35 Global Network KEPCO proactively carries out overseas business projects to ensure sustainable growth by overcom32 Projects in 17 Counties ing limitations in domestic business and finding new business opportunities. In 2014, the company’s overseas sales was KRW 3 trillion and 959.2 billion(based on the proportion of shares) and achieved 5,475MW(based on shares) in capacity of overseas generation facilities. in the World Nuclear 1 business project power in 1 country Thermal 10 business projects power in 7 countries Denison(Uranium) Renewable 1 business project Cree East(Uranium) energy in 1 country Waterbury(Uranium) EFI(Uranium) Transmission 10 business projects and distribution in 8 countries Canada Resource 10 business projects Substation 500kV / 220kV development in 4 countries Wind Power 1,315MW Kazakhstan Inner Mongolia 991MW Gansu Prov. 99 MW Liaoning Prov. 225 MW Al Qatrana(Gas) 373MW London Shanxi Prov.(Coal) 6,887MW Branch Office Amman(Diesel) 573 MW China Jordan Shuweihat S3(Gas) 1,600MW New York Beijing Norte II(Gas) 433MW Branch Office Baraka(Nuclear) 5,600MW Branch Office Tokyo Mexico Imouraren. Branch Office (Uranium) UAE Hanoi Niger Branch Office Riyadh Branch Office Saudi Arabia India Dominica Rabigh(Heavy Fuel Oil) 1,204MW Construction of . Overseas sales in 2014(As of proportion of shares) Construction of . Distribution Network Distribution Network Nigeria Philippine Nuclear KRW 2 trillion. power and 442.3 billion Eqbin(Gas) 1,320 MW Generation KRW 1 trillion. Ilijan(Gas) 1,200MW and 275.1 billion Indonesia Cebu(Coal) 200 MW KRW 3 trillion and Naga(Coal/ . 959.2 billion Transmission and KRW 14.3 billion Heavy Fuel Oil) 492MW distribution Bayan Resources(Coal) Adaro Energy(Coal) Resource KRW 227.5 billion development Johannesburg Branch Office Austrailia Capacity of overseas generation facilities in 2014(Based on shares) Moolarben(Coal) Cockatoo(Coal) Byrong(Coal) 14,277MW (including on Capacity of shares the progress of construction) 5,475MW 36 2015 KEPCO Sustainability Report Company Overview Sustainable Management Five Core Issues Performance Data Appendices 37 Reinforcing Selecting Technology for New Growth Engines for the Future Microgrid Technical There is a saying : ‘The best way to predict the future is to make the future.’ KEPCO focuses its capability on developing future strategic technology to create new growth engines through challenge and innovation and lead ESS CCUS Competitiveness the global energy market. The company will take the lead in pioneering the new business sector by selecting Commercial operation and demonstration of New Growth Completed 100 hours of demonstrative Long-term operation of wet CO2 . 12 major strategic technologies based on new energy technology with high strategic significance and making of Gasado, an energy-dependent island operation for large capacity 4MW/8MWh capture plant after burning 10MW, based on renewable energy(September decisive investment in the R&D sector. Engines ESS(August 2014). which is the largest in Asia(1,000 2014) 〮 Demonstrated core technologies such hours, Boryeong) 〮 Applying a new model with an indepenas frequency regulation, peak reduction, Long-term operation of dry CO2 dently developed energy management and stability in output of wind power capture plant after burning 10MW, system(EMS) System for Development of Technology Pilot project for frequency regulation ESS which is the largest in the world(1,000 〮 Carrying out international joint technical for Frequency hours, Hadong) cooperation for new business : Canada, · Position for Growth Engine Business : Supporter Producer ·52MW was established(December 2014).. Mozambique, and Southeast Asia A total of 500MW to be installed by 2017. Clean Technology Solution Smart Technology Solution (Energy) (Grid & Service) Technology that preserves the Technology that enriches human life, SuperSmart Grid environment, is sustainable, and provides realizes convenience, and makes Offshore conductivity all human beings with clean energy a bright and beautiful society Wind Power Installing and operating a real power Developing a demand control . system for DC(Direct Current) 80kV charging system to expand the . · Contents for 12 Major Strategic Technologies Optimal design of demonstration supply of electric vehicles . New Energy Industry Realizing the Creative Economy complex for offshore wind power . superconductivity cable system . (October 2014, 500m) (October 2014) of 2.5GW August 2014). IGCC-SNG. HVDC. 〮 Expecting to achieve reduction . Offshore . Developing AC(Alternating Current) Developing technology based on the (Integrated Gasification . (High-Voltage . Microgrid wind power of KRW 11.4 billion AMI wire and wireless integrated comCombined Cycle) and Direct Current) 154kV single-phase superconducting fault current limiter and freezing munications network(December 2014) DR&EE. system(November 2014) Marine energy CO2 generation (Demand Response & . Superconductivity Efficiency Enhancement) CCUS. ESS. (CO2 Capture, . Smart Grid Electricity ICT (Energy Storage System) Utilization and Storage) Development of Major Technologies in 2014 Securing Technical Competitiveness by Increasing Investment in the R&D Sector KEPCO develops high value-added electricity technology and conducts business to create new growth engines for the future and strategically makes R&D investment every year to reinforce development of technology to SPECIAL In October 2014, KEPCO held the 20th Conference of the Electric Power Supply Industry(CEPSI) where all leaders improve stability in the electricity grid and facilities. As the company invested KRW 192 billion in the R&D sector, in the Asia and Pacific region gather in Jeju, the island of green energy. As the most highly reputed electricity which is worth 0.33% of all sales, we have reinforced technology and expanded research infrastructure such as research facilities by developing core strategic technology and operational technology customized to each Holding conference in the Asia-Pacific region, CEPSI was held for the first time in Korea in its 40-year history. This was the ‘CEPSI 2014’ largest CEPSI yet, with 2,589 people from 36 countries in attendance. business sector. As a result, we additionally secured 13 cases of core strategic technology in 2014 and achieved Successfully 32 accumulated secured cases in 12 major strategic technologies, which we have pursued since 2012. The comUnder the theme of ‘Roles and Responsibilities of the Electricity Industry to Realize a Smart & Green Sociepany also applied 278 cases of industrial property rights and released 323 theses in domestic and overseas ty,’ the conference held intensive discussion in four major sessions that covered different topics : strategy for journals and symposiums. sustainable development, measures for coping with climate change, Smart Grid innovation, and technology for prospective electricity sector in the future. A special session was also held to introduce core technologies in the new energy industrial sector such as dispersed generation, which is focused in Korea, energy storage system(ESS), and Microgrid. Performance for R&D investment (Unit : KRW 100 million) Holding CEPSI enhanced Korea’s prestige and KEPCO’s global reputation. The company not only achieved business performance in signing seven MOUs and 14 cases of consultation with management, but also enhanced SME brands by handling 33 cases of one-on-one corporate export consultation(worth KRW 8 million) and ac2012 1,878 commodating 9,500 visitors for the exhibition. 2013 1,905 Cho Hwan-eik, CEO of KEPCO holding this event, emphasized the importance of the occasion : “It is a true honor to hold CEPSI, an event equivalent to the Asian Games in the energy sector, following the World Energy 2014 1,920 Conference(WEC), an Olympic-like event in the energy sector, last year. To enable Asia to lead the energy deElectricity researchers. at Future Technology Research Institute mand growth and realize a smart and eco-friendly future, I hope that CEPSI 2014 contributes to new advances as work move forward together on our journey as a unified and new Asia.” 38 2015 KEPCO Sustainability Report Company Overview Sustainable Management Five Core Issues Performance Data Appendices 39 Next-generation Smart Grid : Proactive Participation in Demonstration and Spreading Business Advanced Metering Infrastructure(AMI) : Energy-saving Service Business Smart Grid refers to the next-generation smart grid that optimizes energy efficiency by integrating ICT with the The AMI project, which is being implemented following the government’s master plan for smart grids, aims to electricity grid. As the government aims to establish the world’s first nation-based Smart Grid by 2030, KEPCO provide all customers in 21.94 million households with advanced energy service. Since its development of a has successfully completed the Jeju Smart Grid Demonstration Project(2009-2013) and been selected as a promid and long-term AMI building plan in 2013, the company completed establishment of AMI for about 1.5 milspective participant for the expansion of SG Deployment Project(to be carried out in 2016-2018). With the aim lion households in 2014. By building AMI, we will contribute to inducing voluntary demand response, reducing of efficiently operating the electricity grid, reducing CO2, and fostering new growth engines, the company is electricity peak, and improving the electricity quality by providing information on real-time electricity usage actively developing related infrastructures such as Advanced Metering Infrastructure(AMI), Smart Grid Station, and outage by using a two-way communications network. Energy Storage System(ESS), infrastructure for charging electric vehicles, and Microgrid. Based on these core Microgrid : Establishment of an Energy-independent Island technologies, KEPCO will create the basis for building region-based Smart Grids by 2020 and pioneer the overKEPCO established the Microgrid System, substituting diesel generators in remote and isolated regions with seas market of Smart Grid technology and systems by establishing a nation-based Smart Grid by 2030. renewable energy and utilizing the energy storage system(ESS) in Gapagdo of Jeju Island and Gasado in Jeonnam. In completing the construction, the company developed the business model for a ‘Carbon-zero Island’ Smart Grid : New Energy Paradigm and ‘Energy-independent island’, which would produce energy with low carbon emissions and reduce energy Present Evolution Future supply expenses. In 2014, based on this development, KEPCO signed an agreement for joint establishment of a Microgrid with Powerstream for the first time in Canada and North America. We will also build Microgrids in ‧Two-way exchange of . information with customers R  enewable System for operating Microgrid in the energyUlleungdo and Deokjeokdo in Incheon. Plant ‧Minimizing expense by. ESS energy independent island(Gasado in Jeonnam) enhancing efficiency in operation Renewable Energy : Efforts to Achieve the National Goal ‧Broadening acceptability of . Smart airAs a representative public energy company, KEPCO has continuously sought measures to help achieve the naconditioning Electric . Transmission . renewable energy Energy Storage and heating vehicle tional renewable energy goal(11% by 2035) and found relevant businesses that could help accomplish this. Transformation . ‧Enhancing trust in the . System(EMS) Distribution electricity grid by automation Despite the restricted national territory and climate conditions, our company has carried out various business ‧Creating new products . projects such as a 2.5GW offshore wind power facility in the Southwestern Sea, which is a government-led proincorporating new technology  Smart home appliance, Household, Building, Building, Household ject, a solar power project for transmission and distribution lines in Miryang, a fuel cell project in Daegu, and ‧Dealing with cyber-attacks and . Factory protecting information pilot project for the eco-friendly and energy-independent island in Ulleungdo by utilizing personnel in nationwide business sites, electricity grids, and relevant technology. We will proactively develop domestic businesses and pioneer the overseas market based on our track record and technology accumulated from the pilot project Smart Grid Station : Energy Optimization for offshore wind power in the Southwestern Sea. In 2013, KEPCO established the world’s first Smart Grid Station. This system efficiently monitors and controls renewable energy, the energy storage system(ESS), advanced metering infrastructure(AMI) and electric vehicle(EV) Charging Electric Vehicles : Expanding Charging Infrastructure and Developing V2G ISGAN Award KEPCO has taken the lead in popularizing electric vehicles by developing quick EV chargers, conducting the picharging devices in buildings on a real-time basis. Recognized for its innovation and technological extensibility, Received the Best KEPCO’s Smart Grid Station was honored with an Honorable Mention in the 2nd ISGAN(International Smart lot project for building charging stations on the expressway, and initiating EV sharing projects. We will establish Prize in the 2nd Grid Action Network) Awards, an international smart grid technology contest held in Mexico in June 2015. That an SPC and install the EV charging infrastructure across Korea for easier access with the cooperation and supISGAN Awards and Global Smart Grid same month, it also won the Best Smartgrid Project Award from the Global Smart Grid Federation(GSGF). The port of local governments to promote the new energy business. Currently, the V2G(Vehicle to Grid) technology Federation(GSGF) Smart Grid Stations that were installed in 29 KEPCO branch offices in 2014 not only reduced energy use and GHG developed by KEPCO to resell electricity saved in electric vehicles is being tested in Seoul National University Special Prize emissions, but also contributed to the growth of SMEs. In 2015, we will further establish stations at 75 business and Gwangju Institute of Science and Technology. In the future, we also plan to develop wireless charging techsites in the country. nology for vehicles. 1. Signing an MOU with KT for . cooperation in Smart Grid 2. Open forum for the new energy industry SPECIAL The Energy storage system(ESS) stores electricity for later use when it is needed. This new technology will be utilized in various sectors such as electricity demand control, renewable energy development, electricity quality. Establishing the World’s improvement, and frequency regulation. In 2013, KEPCO organized its management team and established its 4MW Largest Frequency ESS pilot project in Jeju Jocheon Substation for the first time in Korea. The same year, we established a plan in Registration Energy stages to build a 500MW ESS for frequency regulation over four years(2014-2017). In 2014, for the first stage, our Storage System(ESS) company successfully installed ESS for frequency regulation, the largest of its kind in the world(52MW), in SeoAnseong Substation and Sin-Yongin Substation. As of June 2015, the ESS is currently in trial operation. While the reserve power for F/S managed by the existing coal generators is replaced with the ESS to improve the output of generators, it is expected to save KRW 320 billion a year in electricity purchase expenses when a total capacity of 500MW ESS is installed. The company is expected to help create new jobs by fostering relevant domestic businesses, such as those related to battery production, laying the foundation for pioneering the overseas market. 1 2 ESS for Frequency Adjustment(Seo-Anseong Substation) 40 2015 KEPCO Sustainability Report Company Overview Sustainable Management Five Core Issues Performance Data Appendices 41 03. Preserving Environment Eco-friendly KEPCO pursues eco-friendliness in all sectors of the electricity supply chain and creates environmental value by Value Chain developing low-carbon green technology and improving energy efficiency. Production Transport Consumption Joint response for ecoConstructing and Managing friendly management operating ecoelectricity demand OUR APPROACH with electricity group friendly power systemically companies facilities Clean energy is essential for sustainable life in the next generation. KEPCO will enhance energy efficiency and realize sustainable energy by recognizing our high responsibility to the environment and applying eco-friendly smart technology in the overall value chain of generation-transport-sales. We will establish a master plan for reducing GHG emissions to cope with climate change and proactively develop Production stage technology for reducing GHG emissions. KEPCO and GENCOs strive to ensure eco-friendliness in the electricity supply chain by establishing an organic Major Issues in the Result of Materiality Assessment cooperative system between the generation sector, transmission, and sales. Efforts to Develop Eco-friendly Technology ㅣ Coping with Climate Change Continuous Environment-related Investment All six GENCO business offices have acquired and maintained ISO 14001 certification. Expenses for protecting the environment in 2014 totaled KRW 724.6 billion, including KRW 286.3 billion for investment in environmental facilities for GENCOs, KRW 345.5 billion for the operation of environmental facilities, KRW 19.2 billion for processing waste, KRW 20.7 billion for environment-related work, KRW 200 million for maintaining ISO 14001, and KRW 52.7 billion for other related purposes. Amount of Pollutants by GENCOs Air quality (Unit : g/MWh) Water quality (Unit : g/MWh) SOx NOx Dust COD* Suspended matters 186 1.136 2012 2012 297 0.416 8 182 0.203 2013 2013 205 0.088 10 0.146 166 2014 0.069 2014 283 8 *COD : Chemical Oxygen Demand Constructing and Operating Generation Facilities in Harmony with Local Communities GENCOs conduct environmental impact assessment for impact on the environment neighboring construction sites, considering factors such as the natural environmental state and transportation in establishing and exOUR PERFORMANCE OUR PLAN panding plants. After construction, companies conduct follow-up environmental impact assessment for five 3.7 47 years and report the results to the government each year. KRW trillion % CO2 Establish a company-wide environment Reducing Pollutants by Enhancing Efficiency in Domestic and Overseas Generation Facilities management system and provide The GENCOs have expanded the use of clean energy sources and operating systems such as desulfurization, Investments in the environment W Ratio of reduction . compared to average carbon regular feedback denitrification, and dust collection, to reduce SOx, NOx, and dust emitted from the power generation process. emissions in 2007-2009 GENCOs also operate comprehensive wastewater treatment facilities to physically and chemically treat wasteConstruct eco-friendly power facilities 1 403,000 water for reuse or discharge, while desulfurized gypsum generated from coal-fired power plants is reused for such as eco-friendly steel towers and cement production. expand underground facilities st tons In operating overseas plants, KEPCO strives to comply with the environmental standard in each country by CDP(Carbon . CDP Additional emission . Continuously reduce CO2 emissions improving generation facilities and applying eco-friendly technology and reduce pollutants from plants. As a Disclosure Project) reduction compared . GHG and minimize wastes result, Illijan Plant in the Philippines was recognized as the best environmental company by the Chamber of energy sector to the goal for 2014 Commerce of the Philippines in 2013. In 2015, the company will not only reduce environmental pollutants, but Establish a carbon asset management also enhance operating profits by conducting business for raising efficiency in plants such as improving desulsystem furization facilities in the Saudi Arabia Plant. 42 2015 KEPCO Sustainability Report Company Overview Sustainable Management Five Core Issues Performance Data Appendices 43 Transport Stage Efforts to Reduce T&D Loss Rate KEPCO contributes to reducing GHG emissions by maintaining the world’s best T&D loss rate and preventing KEPCO constructs transmission and distribution facilities necessary for stable electricity supply in a timely additional construction of generation facilities. The company has enacted continuous efforts to reduce electricmanner and operates them efficiently. To acquire eco-friendliness in the electricity transfer stage, we ensure ity loss by using low-loss equipment, addressing overload transformers, and opening agricultural transformers objectivity and transparency in selecting the location of power facilities, implement environmental impact asCOS(Cut Out Switch) during suspended periods of electricity use. As a result of our efforts, we achieved the sessment, and expand eco-friendly power facilities in harmony with local communities. We also strive to reduce world’s best level, recording 3.69% of T&D loss rate in 2014. T&D loss, protect the ecosystem, and manage electromagnetic fields. Opening the Information on Electromagnetic Field Securing Objectivity and Transparency in Selecting Locations for Power Facilities Electromagnetic fields that are generated by power facilities have a frequency of 60Hz. This is very low and is To deal with conflicts over the selection of sites for power facilities, KEPCO holds the Committee for Selectnot accumulated in the human body or transmitted over long distances. KEPCO is operating power facilities at a ing Sites with various stakeholders, including local resident representatives, local government and assemblies, level that is six times lower than the domestic standard. To alleviate the anxiety and controversy over the safety and conflict experts. We also hold meetings with local residents before starting business. We are operating the of electromagnetic fields and to provide the public with accurate information, we operate our website(www. ‘Open Desk’ where employees reside at the construction areas to answer questions from local residents. kepco.co.kr), experience center for electromagnetic fields, and electromagnetic field measurement services Conducting and Disclosing Environmental Impact Assessment for the Protection of Biodiversity for regions near distribution towers and substations. We also disclose the measured value of electromagnetic To establish transmission lines and substations, consultation with relevant institutions and environmental imfields in power facilities. To manage electromagnetic fields more scientifically, the company continuously carpact assessment need to be carried out before starting business. KEPCO complies with the law on the assessries out the relevant research and collects opinions from various channels such as our website. Website for information on electromagnetic. ment of environmental impacts, conducts assessment before beginning construction of all transmission lines wave and electromagnetic field Processing PCBs in Waste Transformers and substations, and discloses all results on the environmental impact assessment information support system. To proactively meet the nation’s implementation plan for the Stockholm Convention on POPs, KEPCO has es(www.eiass.go.kr). tablished and operated the management system with the aim of completely eradicating PCBs(Poly Chlorinated We exclude regions with high biodiversity value, and at the stage of environmental impact assessment, our Biphenyls). Waste transformers to be disposed are strictly controlled in accordance with the management procompany investigates habitats by focusing on protected species(endangered species), indigenous species, specedure for PCBs. Waste transformers with 2 ppm and over in the concentration level of PCBs are processed by cific species, and species that inhabit the area in groups. Following our effect predictions, measures for reducprofessional companies; the company processed 230,000 units as of 2014. We will conduct strict safety manageing environmental impacts are then prepared. At the stage of construction, managers for consultation content ment for PCBs, from demolition to storage, analysis, procession and sales, and carry out economic and stable are appointed, and the relevant content is checked in a follow-up environmental impact assessment. At the PCB management by finding new construction technologies. stage of completion of construction, we recover habitats damaged by the construction to the original condition as much as possible. We have been diligently reinforcing the tasks for environmental impact assessment PCBs Handling Process by placing a total of four external environmental experts in the headquarters and construction offices from April 2014. Out company also published the guideline for environmental impact assessment in transmission Demolishing Extracting samples Contents-dependent and distribution facilities and manual for management of matters for legal compliance(2014), shared cases in 1 and returning 2 and analyzing 3 processing violation of environmental regulations, and conducted education to prevent recurrences(2015) to enhance the transformers concentration environmental mindset of executives and employees. 2 ppm Expanding Construction of Eco-friendly Power Facilities and over Post-process sales KEPCO is expanding the construction of eco-friendly power facilities for minimum interference with the enviLess than ronment and developing environmentally friendly materials, equipment, and construction methods. We use 2 ppm Repair or sales more aesthetically pleasing tubular steel poles and eco-friendly seals on steel towers, while applying spacers, semi-underground engineering that requires minimum space, and improvements to the overall environment. Material center at Analysis company To reduce CO2 emissions, KEPCO has also developed and applied epoxy mold insulated switches to replace the each district division existing SF6 gas. The company has promoted the revision of laws and regulations on the installation of power facilities so that the depth for underground tunnels is reduced to minimize the time required for excavation. Ensuring space for ground facilities within buildings is now required by law in an effort to minimize inconvenience to pedestrians. Our company has also laid the foundation for beautifying the urban landscape by requiring Sales Stage overhead communication lines to be buried along with distribution lines by law. Contributing to Saving Energy by Optimizing Demand Control KEPCO follows the government-led energy saving policy through proactive and systemic electricity demand control. In 2014, our company improved errors in predicting demand by applying various demand analysis methods and drew the optimal period and necessary amount for demand control. We also achieved the stable electricity supply by reducing about 1.03 million kW in peak demand for the peak time through a system for adjusting demand for a designated period and voltage control. We will provide various energy-saving services such as electricity consumption maps and electricity household ledgers by comprehensively managing electricity Big Data and establishing the smart demand control center. We will also implement demand control based on the Big Data and expand real-time demand control by expanding the AMI(Advanced Metering Infrastructure) in the nation. Holding a local resident presentation to select. Awarded work In the contest for eco-friendly steel tower the location for power facilities 44 2015 KEPCO Sustainability Report Company Overview Sustainable Management Five Core Issues Performance Data Appendices 45 Coping with Strategy for Coping with Climate Change Reduction of Emission Trading System Climate Change GHG Emissions Although Korea has no obligation to reduce GHG emissions according to the Kyoto Protocol(announced in As a part of the the greenhouse gas target management system in 2014, KEPCO was assigned to reducing GHG 1992), it has strived to reduce emissions by voluntarily establishing its goals. In terms of the generation energy emissions by 40% compared to the base year(2007-2009) and secured the amount of early reduction. This sector, the company aims to reduce emissions by 26.4% based on the expected amount of emissions by 2020. amount of reduction can be utilized in supplementing certified emission reduction(CER), which can be insuffiFollowing the master plan for reducing GHG emissions, KEPCO presents our vision of becoming The Most Valucient after implementing the Emission Trading System(ETS) from 2015. As KEPCO was designated as a company able Green KEPCO and carries out Korea’s best carbon management. As the national greenhouse gas trading with assigned certified emission reduction from 2015, the company was allocated free emission credit for each system has been implemented since January 2015, we will strive to further reduce GHG emissions. year in the first plan period(2015-2017). The cost for implementing the ETS for the first plan term is estimated to be about KRW 19.5 billion. Master Plan for GHG Emissions Renewable Portfolio Standard Vision The Most Valuable Green KEPCO The Renewable Portfolio Standard(RPS), which began to be implemented since 2012, is a system to supply Korea’s best energy company with green optimization renewable energy by a certain ratio in the generation amount to reduce GHG emissions and expand the generation of renewable energy. In 2014, KEPCO made up for KRW 778.9 billion in the total expense of GENCOs, which Goal • Reducing GHG emissions by 40% compared to 2007-2009 by 2020 were caused by implementing the RPS. The ratio of mandatory supply of RPS in 2014 was 3%. • Creating renewable growth engines by conducting business for technology to reduce GHG emissions • Building an image as the best eco-friendly company Reinforcing Technology for Reducing GHG Emissions Change in GHG Emissions by reinforcing carbon management (Unit : 10,000 ton CO2eq) KEPCO strives to reduce GHG emissions to contribute to the national emission reduction initiative, which is to reduce the expected amount of GHG emissions(BAU, Business As Usual) by 30% by 2020, and deal with the Base year(2007-2009) 264 emission trading system(ETS), which began implementation since 2015. Through the continuous development Strategy Responding with efficient Developing and applying Enhancing image as a 2010 203 eco-friendly company of CO2 emissions reduction technology, the company reduced GHG emissions by 47% compared to 2.64 milregulations and drafting technology for reducing strategy for cooperation GHG emissions and reinforcing carbon 2011 124 lion tons, which is the average amount of emissions in the base year(2007-2009). This was achieved by signifimanagement 2012 130 cantly reducing GHG emissions through developing the technology in 2011 to collect SF6 gas, which accounts 2013 143* for 80% of the total amount of GHG emissions by KEPCO, and increasing the collection ratio from 80% to 97%. Joint Response to Climate Change by Electricity Group Companies 2014 142 From 2015, we will expand and apply technology to refine and recycle gas after collecting SF6 and reduce about KEPCO and GENCOs recognize climate change issues as a crisis and a new opportunity for the energy industry * Re-verification of GHG emissions 80,000 tons of GHG emissions a year. In the long term, our company will develop the insulation material to dis: we jointly deal with climate change based on cooperation with group companies. In December 2013, KEPCO semble and substitute SF6 and achieve zero SF6 emissions. signed a joint business agreement for developing technology reducing GHG emissions in GENCOs and establishing a cooperative system with five GENCOs CTO and Korea Energy Management Corporation. As the company established the Korea Carbon Capture and Storage Association(KCCSA) in 2010, we raised the fund jointly Process for Collecting SF6 Gas with GENCOs and continued to strive to conduct R&D for developing technology to capture and store carbon dioxide. The company invests 0.5% of annual sales in R&D to cope with climate change through energy efficiency, using measures such as the Smart Grid and Microgrid. KEPCO prepared a post-2020 new climate system in 2014 SF6 GAS SF6 GAS and established a group-wide response strategy to conduct mutual cooperation tasks. Collecting SF6 gas in Analyzing and Storage and Recycling Establishing the Carbon Management System power facilities refining gas transport (Transformation GIS, GCB, etc.) To analyze the current status of company-wide GHG emissions and manage carbon assets, KEPCO is establishing the Carbon Asset Management System(CAMS). As the company plans to finish building the system by September 2015, we will establish a portfolio for analyzing data on certified emission reduction, monitoring data on greenhouse gas on a real-time basis, and managing optimal certified emission reduction. Our company will take joint measures in the electricity sector based on the implementation of emission trading system by advancing CAMS after 2016 and establishing the connection system with electricity group companies. CTS(Carbon Trust Standard) KEPCO’s efforts and performance to reduce GHG emissions were recognized by SPECIAL the Korea Productivity Center and Carbon Trust, the UK’s non-profit organization established to pursue the Global Certificate for shift into a sustainable low-carbon economy, and the company acquired first CTS(Carbon Trust Standard), System for Caron Asset Management Reduction of GHG a global certificate for carbon management, in 2013. After two years, we passed the review with stricter Managing certified Supporting trading of Emissions standards for GHG emission reduction and went through the assessment for recertification. Calculation of GHG emissions Establishing the inventory emission reduction certified emission reduction · Substation SF6 emission/collection · Establishing the inventory for . · Managing GHG emission reduction . · Supporting application for . CDP (Carbon Disclosure Project) In 2014, KEPCO submitted the open report for CDP climate change · Distribution SF6 emission/collection integrating data on GHG emissions business assignment of certified emission . information and disclosed the company’s data on carbon emission and relevant policy to 822 investors around · Fuel amount used by remote . · Managing the current status of . reduction the world. As a result, the company’s efforts to enhance transparency in information on greenhouse gas and generation facilities assigned certified emission . · Supporting the optimal portfolio . · Fuel amount used by vehicles reduction for trading certified emission . achieve performance for reducing greenhouse gas were recognized : we received the 1st rank in the energy · Fuel amount used for heating and . · Managing the current status of offset . reduction sector, and we were listed on the winner’s club. electricity in the company certified emission reduction · Supporting simulation of trading . · Managing content of trading certified certified emission reduction emission reduction Received the CDP best company prize 46 2015 KEPCO Sustainability Report Company Overview Sustainable Management Five Core Issues Performance Data Appendices 47 Energy-saving KEPCO conducts challenging and proactive activities to ensure efficiency in facilities, expand supply of renewSPECIAL The new KEPCO headquarters office was established as an eco-friendly super-energy savings building with the Activities able energy, and make energy conservation a way of life to reduce energy and water use. Despite the conbest level suited for a reputable and energy-leading company. It also acquired the best level in various ecostruction of new buildings, such as our new headquarters, and increased personnel, the amount of energy use Eco-friendly friendly energy certifications at home and abroad. increased by only 1.4% compared to 2011, and we decreased water use by 25%. Super-energy As our company organized the Energy Saving Committee with the domestic vice president serving as its chairSavings Building 1. Green Building of Super-energy Savings man, we have established a superior system to plan and check company-wide energy-saving efforts for buildAs annual energy consumption amount per unit area is 112kWh/m2·yr, the building has the effect of saving ings and IT facilities and reinforced the execution ability of subordinate groups by designating managers in about 63% of energy compared to 300kWh/m2·yr as the first legal rank. charge of energy conservation at each business site and conducting energy-saving campaigns for the summer and winter. We have also carried out activities for returning results after checking performances by operating Major applied technology Based on the 1st rank the Energy Portal System to monitor energy use performances in a swift and accurate way. Participating in the government-led . · Reducing window area's rate(50% → 32%) green pilot project · Double external surface(Double Skin) KEPCO will continuously enact reasonable measures for energy and water use by improving performance in buildings and facilities, expanding renewable energy, and preventing energy waste. We will proactively take the New KEPCO · Three-layered glass headquarters 63% Energy Saving lead in improving continuity in energy resources and reducing GHG emissions. office of total consumption · High-insulated materials amount · Applying high-efficiency devices(Low-electricity light, Major Activities for Saving Energy in 2014 (Energy consumption 112 300 High-efficiency pump, etc.) Amount of Energy Use 1) (Unit : TJ) amount : kWh/m2·yr) Amount of use Saving Energy Intensity degree · Operated the special period for saving energy in the summer and winter 2. Establishing the Greatest Capacity of Renewable Energy Facilities in Korea’s Business Buildings 70.8 · Set a limit on air-conditioning and heating temperature(28℃ and over for air57.6 56.8 conditioning, 18℃ and under for heating) · The total facilities capacity of renewable energy is · Renewable energy facilities(kW) 52.9 · Designated managers in charge of energy conservation at each building, 7,127kW and accounts for 42% of building energy Solar heat 3,096 Conducted activities for preventing waste photovoltaic power 308 3,053 consumption amount. The energy independent power 1,865 2,843 2,838 · Conducted a campaign for saving water in the summer when water usage is high Wind power 9 supply ratio is 42%, which is 4.2 times of the legal 7,127 Geothermal Efficiency in Facilities standard(10%). power 4,945 · Replaced and installed high-efficiency LED lights in buildings(11,880 units) · Adopted 5,418 units of office supplies such as PCs for reducing standby power, 2011 2012 2013 2014 Installed S/W for saving electricity on PC 3. Acquiring the ‘Best Level’ in Domestic and Overseas Eco-friendly Energy Certificates · Newly installed the BEMS(Building Energy Management System) at 29 buildings · Designed the first level of saving energy at the new headquarters building and Amount of Water Use2) Overseas · Global eco-friendly certification system LEED*: Platinum level(July 2015) Chungbuk Division building (Unit : 1,000 tons) · Adopted facilities for rainwater(900 tons) and recycling water(51 tons) at * LEED(Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design): Eco-friendly building verification system developed 3,602 and implemented by the U.S. Green Building Council with the highest reputation in the world, headquarters, saving 63% of water 2,995 2,701 2,670 Renewable Energy Domestic · Building energy efficiency level certification system : 1st level(October 2014) · Adopted facilities for renewable energy such as GSHP(Ground Source Heat Pump) · Green building certification system : Best level(March 2015) Systems and photovoltaic power generation at the new headquarters building · Intelligent building certification system : 1st level(May 2015) · Newly installed photovoltaic power generation facilities at 26 company buildings. 2011 2012 2013 2014 (726kW in total capacity) 1) Period of implementing the limit on energy use for the summer and winter by the government: December 2011 – August 2013, . Natural ventilation Energy data : Electricity of facilities supply electricity and buildings, fuel for heating, and percentage of electricity as indirect energy for cooking fuel : 95%, Energy intensity = Amount of energy use / KRW trillion Wind generators . 2) Data on water : Water supply used at buildings(domestic business sites) 3kW x 3 units Rainwater tank Hybrid security light SPECIAL As the company’s performance for eco-friendly management was externally recognized, KEPCO received the Wind power + Photovoltaic power BIPV*(Photovoltaic power generation), 291kWp 0.3kW x 4 units presidential citation for a group in ‘Korea Eco-friendly Merit Government Prize in 2014.’ The company created a *BIPV(Building Integrated Photo Voltaic system) Receiving the KEPCO exhibition hall in Eco-Expo Korea in October 2014 to support eco-friendly capability and spread culture Presidential Citation and presented the blueprint for future energy under the theme of ‘Developing Technology for Eco-friendly for Eco-friendly Merit Electricity Transport’ and ‘Transforming into a Clean and Green Power Plant.’ Optimization of external awning in Korea Photovoltaic power Solar heat power hot water supply generation, 1,574kWp Geothermal heat 308kWp Expanding 4,945kWp a rooftop (200m x 330 holes) garden Receiving the presidential citation for eco-friendly merit in Korea Operating the promotion booth at the Eco-Expo Korea Current status of establishing renewable energy at the new KEPCO headquarters building 48 2015 KEPCO Sustainability Report Company Overview Sustainable Management Five Core Issues Performance Data Appendices 49 04. Joining Humanity Opening the KEPCO’s New Bitgaram Era and New Challenges Bitgaram Along with the government-led plan for relocating public institutions to local areas, KEPCO moved its headquarters to Gwangju/Jeonnam Innovation City in December 2014. By using this opportunity to open doors toEra at the ward the new future, the company has presented a joint development model with local communities for the Headquarters Bitgaram Energy Valley and taken the first steps for successfully creating realizing this model. Bitgaram Energy Valley OUR APPROACH Bitgaram Energy Valley refers to the company’s will to make Gwangju/Jeonnam ‘Korea’s electricity capital’. KEPCO aims to create a global energy hub specialized in the electricity energy industry. It will be jointly developed with local With the low growth in the global economy, expectations for corporate social responsibility have increased. KEPCO will become a sustaincommunities by connecting strategic industrial belts in Gwangju/Jeonnam with the focus on Bitgaram Innovation City. able global company, growing together with stakeholders. We will not only create the Bitgaram Energy Valley to create shared value with local communities within the region at the relocated headquarters, but also carry out social contribution activities in line with our elecBitgaram Innovation City tricity business, as well as win-win growth with SMEs. Global creative economy Bitgaram Based on the sector specialized to the Cultural Advanced Major Issues in the Result of Materiality Assessment Innovation industry-academyIndustrial Belt electricity energy industry City research cluster IT Convergence Establishing Bitgaram Energy Valley ㅣ Reinforcing Fair Trade and Contract Transparency ㅣ Strategy for Social Contribution Belt growing together with Naju the local communities in Connecting with Gwangju/ Gwangju/Jeonnam the strategic Renewable Jeonnam Energy Belt industrial belt Agricultural Food Life Industrial Belt Performances Establishing Systems for the Success of the Energy Valley KEPCO successfully signed an MOU(January 2015) to create the Energy Valley with public energy companies, Gwangju Metropolitan Government, Jeollanam-do Provincial Office, and Naju Metropolitan Government. The company also formed cooperative relations by signing MOUs for fostering R&D and talented people(March 2015) with seven regional colleges in Gwangju and Jeonnam, such as Chonnam National University. In May 2015, the company held a discussion forum for Energy Valley to collect opinions from various sectors so that Energy Valley will be built successfully. Attracting Local Investment and R&D With the beginning of the contract with Bosung Powertec, KEPCO has signed an agreement for attracting investment in Energy Valley with 32 companies(June 2015). The company cooperated for R&D cooperative research tasks with local colleges and selected 19 cases of intensive research tasks. Research expenses worth KRW 10 billion a year will be invested. Effort to Improve Culture, Environment, and Quality of Life in Local Communities With the aim of carrying out the project for establishing the ‘New Underground Model’ in the specialized street OUR PERFORMANCE OUR PLAN in Naju, KEPCO has completed the demonstration design in the first section. The company has provided a 261.7 5.2 cultural space for playing films and holding concerts by opening the company’s building, provided scholarship Invest KRW 262.2 billion for regional for those hoping to work in the electricity industry to support the disadvantaged, and implemented the HomeKRW billion KRW trillion promotion business in where the coming Day event for multi-cultural households. Amount of . W Performance for W headquarters has been relocated discount for . purchasing SME products energy welfare Conduct eyesight recovery survey for 1,004 persons by 2021 172 persons 32 companies Reinforce CSV(Creating Shared Value) business specialized to electricity Number of beneficiaries . Number of companies . for eyesight recovery surgery signing a contract for attracting business investment in Energy Valley Energy Valley Support Agreement 50 2015 KEPCO Sustainability Report Company Overview Sustainable Management Five Core Issues Performance Data Appendices 51 Future Plans Attracting Companies and Win-win Growth Expanding Industry-Academy-Research for R&D and Fostering the Talent KEPCO strives to create an environment where new companies can easily settle by proactively supporting SMEs KEPCO will proactively support reinforcing research capability in local colleges by making intensive investment and start-ups. As part of these efforts, the company contributes to the ‘fund for nurturing SMEs’ to support in the industry-academy-research R&D such as the energy and IT sector in connection with local colleges and financial expenses and is preparing to establish the ‘Energy Valley Center’ to nurture start-ups and support R&D. hold ‘Bitgaram International Invention Contest’, the world’s first exhibition for new technology in the electricity sector, in October 2015. Our company is preparing operation of the recruitment exhibition and training programs Vitalizing the Local Economy by Expanding Investment in Energy-specialized Business such as the electricity technology camp and overseas voluntary work to attract and train talented people. We KEPCO aims to show the ‘future’ to companies. In addition to the demonstration of new energy business projects will intensively invest KRW 10 billion in industry-academy-research R&D intensively and continuously develop such as Smart Home, Smart Drive, and Smart Campus, our company will broaden investment in transmission programs for fostering talent. and distribution and IT sectors in Gwangju/Jeonnam. We will also provide companies with future opportunities and attract the participation of relevant companies to create an industrial ecosystem leading R&D, parts and Blueprint for Energy Valley materials, and production of complete products in the new energy industrial sectors. KEPCO will realize our vision for the Bitgaram Energy Valley to ensure balanced development of national territory and vitalize the local economy, as well as KEPCO’s future. We will carry out extensive efforts to realize this challenge to begin the Bitgaram era, successfully developing regions and leading creative economy. SPECIAL Supporting the entire 1. IGCC Plant 5. CCS 9. Electricity energy housing KEPCO established systemic devices for supporting the entire process from opening and transferring . process from opening 2. Energy Storage . 6. Geothermal . 10. Direct current . System heat pumps transmission system companies residing at Bitgaram Energy Valley to research & development, making products, pioneering business to export at 3. LED street lights 7. Renewable energy 11. Electric vehicles sales channels, and export. As the process began implementation since May 2015, we have laid the . Bitgaram Energy Valley 4. BEMS(Building Energy 8. Superconductivity . 12. Electric vehicle . foundation for creating the innovation sector for a global creative economy. Management System) cables charging stations 4 · Holding a R&D contest for start-ups at Energy Valley Domestic · Increasing support funds for sales 7 cooperative research tasks and trusted channels R&D 2 research : KRW 1 billion at maximum . 9 → KRW 2 billion 3 · Increased the ratio of 12 purchasing selected developed 11 products as a priority by 20% . · Establishing Energy Valley Center. : 40-70% for products 1 : Beginning the second half of 2015 developed by energy valley 5 8 10 with about 8,000m2 in total floor area companies. 6 Win-win Growth · Jointly contributing business Festival expenditures by Naju Metropolitan Displaying products and Fostering Government, Korea Electrical Engineering & Science Research technologies and consultation . start-ups Institute, KEPCO KDN, and KEPCO KPS Overseas export + seminar, investment presentation + . local festival · Expanding targets to support · 200 billion won investment by . the pioneering of sales channels. W SME Development Fund : Including the new energy · Technology Finance Support. industry and generation sector Funding : Signed agreement with banks · Increasing funds for marketing support by 200% 52 2015 KEPCO Sustainability Report Company Overview Sustainable Management Five Core Issues Performance Data Appendices 53 Social Overview for Social Contribution Activities SPECIAL KEPCO has carried out the ‘Eye Love Hope Project’ for 1004 Eyesight Recovery Surgery project to support peoContribution KEPCO’s social voluntary work group, which was organized in 2004, is the largest size voluntary group with all ple at risk of losing their eyesight from low-income households to undergo eyesight recovery surgery from 2011 20,000 employees engaged among public companies. KEPCO conducts specialized social contribution activito 2021. We plan to give the present of vision to 1,004 people in total, including about 100 people each year. EYE Love Hope ties such as supporting electricity bills for low-income households, helping patients at risk of losing their eyeFor the convenience of visually impaired people, the company issues the electricity bill statement in braille. As Project for 1004 sight from low-income households to undergo eyesight recovery surgery, and the 119 disaster rescue squad. 8,138 employees, which account for 42.4% of all employees, pledged to donate corneas in 2011, KEPCO has Eyesight Recovery We also strive to share light and love with society by conducting various social contribution activities such as made the largest donation of organs as a single institution in Korea. Surgery creating jobs and carrying out global voluntary work through support for social enterprises. KEPCO will conPerformance of Eyesight Recovery Surgery at home and abroad tinuously operate social contribution programs suitable for global needs and contribute to local communities. (Unit : Person) Category 2011 2012 2013 2014 Total Organization of KEPCO Social Voluntary Work Group Domestic 40 60 98 163 361 Chief(CEO) Overseas 10 40 11 9 70 Secretariat Total 50 100 109 172 431 Vice chief(Vice President) Headquarters offices Regional divisions(Primary and Special business Construction offices Electricity bill statement . and departments secondary business offices) offices, etc. in braille 34 235 9 12 Supporting Eye Surgery in the Overseas Electricity Business Areas KEPCO provides eyesight recovery surgery for visually impaired residents living in low-income households of countries that we conduct our overseas projects in. KEPCO is conducting projects in Mexico, Botswana, Nigeria, etc., and the recipients are recommended by the Overseas Project Department of KEPCO. Social Contribution Activities Specialized to Electricity Business Launched in 2011, the project includes an outstanding team of medical staffs from the respective countries. Our Energy Welfare Discount social contribution through the project has been highly acclaimed by the recipient’s countries and is greatly KEPCO offered welfare discounts for electricity bills worth KRW 261.7 billion in 2014 for basic livelihood security contributing to enhancing the global image of KEPCO in our pursuit of new projects recipients and social welfare facilities. As we carried out business for sharing energy with love to support the low-income households who have difficulty paying electricity costs, we provided a total of 16,990 households with about KRW 2.28 billion from 2003 to 2014. Our company has newly launched the system for discounting 20% in electricity bills for facilities protecting female victims from domestic violence at apartment units and expanded the ‘target of exemption of paying deposit’ to lift the economic burden in using electricity by tenants. Achievement for Welfare Discount in Electricity Bills (Unit : KRW 100 million) 593 Disabled Life-support system 8 China Philippines Botswana 14 Householders with . Patriots and veterans three children and over 545 Performance for Overseas Eyesight Recovery Surgery (Unit : Person) 496 403 2,617 Basic livelihood Large families security recipients Category Botswana China Indonesia Jordan Mexico Mongolia Nigeria Philippines Vietnam Total 2012 4 6 2 11 12 1 2 2 0 40 20 Near-poverty Social welfare . 538 facilities 2013 0 0 0 5 0 0 4 1 1 11 2014 4 1 2 2 0 0 0 0 0 9 Eye Love Project KEPCO has helped the disadvantaged by supporting eyesight recovery surgeries for the visually impaired with Mongolia low income every year at home and abroad. By 2014, the company has supported eyesight recovery surgery for 431 persons in total, including 361 in Korea and 70 in foreign countries. We will survey a total of 1,004 persons based on the total recipients by 2021 and expand the targeted recipients. Jordan China Mexico KEPCO 119 Disaster Rescue Squad Vietnam Philippines KEPCO conducts emergency rescue activities in response to various disasters and accidents through the 119 Nigeria disaster rescue squad, which was launched in October 2010 and is the first team of its kind among public comIndonesia panies in Korea. The rescue team is composed of 236 experts for rescue and emergency medical treatment. 7,363 persons a year participated 31 times to assist in disasters caused by typhoon and heavy snow by 2014. The 119 squad also offered medical support to national events such as the Nuclear Security Summit and Incheon Botswana Asian Games(12 times). 54 2015 KEPCO Sustainability Report Company Overview Sustainable Management Five Core Issues Performance Data Appendices 55 1 5 6 7 2 3 8 9 4 1. Helping Seniors 2. Supporting cultural life 3. Natural dyeing experience for the disabled 4. Power equipment inspection 5. Visiting a traditional market 6. Event for visiting households in mother country, the Philippines 7. Helping farm families in sisterhood partnership 8. Disabilities free meals 9. Sharing love with the senior for . Chuseok Holiday Social Contribution Activities for Creating Jobs Customized Social Contribution Activities Supporting Social Enterprises and Cooperatives Sharing Love Jointly by Labor Union and Management KEPCO creates jobs for the vulnerable to vitalize social enterprises and cooperatives. From 2012 to 2014, the KEPCO implements labor-management joint voluntary work every year. Especially, all executives and employcompany has supported KRW 1.15 billion to 23 companies in total and prioritized purchases of products from ees perform voluntary work by visiting social welfare facilities during the holidays and year-end. The company social enterprises by signing an agreement with 15 social enterprises in 14 regional divisions in the country. We also installs wireless power switches to help neighbors who find it difficult to move to turn on and off the light also support the growth of social enterprises and cooperatives by checking power facilities and consulting for while laying down, thus improving their quality of life. electricity use. Talent Donation Hope Rainbow Project Employees share various talents by establishing a talent donation pool in 3,655 sectors such as language and KEPCO’s Hope Rainbow Project provides low-income self-employed business operators and social enterprises musical instruments. In 2014, a total of 2,234 employees participated, and more employees are expected to with management funds collected from small amounts under KRW 1,000 taken from the wages of all executives donate their talents. and employees every month. In 2012-2014, KRW 430 million was offered to 19 companies through the Hope Rainbow Project. The company also held the ‘Idea contest for vitalizing social economy’ to generate and collect ideas Supporting Children and Young People for creating a social economic ecosystem. KEPCO will carry out various projects to create high-quality jobs. KEPCO posts photos of missing children on the electricity bill statement to help in the search and continuously conducts a campaign to prevent children from going missing. In 2004-2014, the company has given a total of 1.73 million name tags, and a total of 109 missing children(accumulated number) returned to their families to share their happiness with all of us. We set up a sisterhood relationship with 287 regional children centers in the country to carry out voluntary work such as academic instruction, cultural experience, and supporting meals. KEPCO helps young people in disadvantaged households to make their dreams come true by volunteering as mentors for them. 56 2015 KEPCO Sustainability Report Company Overview Sustainable Management Five Core Issues Performance Data Appendices 57 Win-win Growth Strategy for Win-win Growth Cooperation Strategy with Electricity Group Companies for Win-win Growth with SMEs with Electricity With the aim of ‘fostering strong SMEs with global competitiveness,’ KEPCO has developed three major stratKEPCO pursues win-win competition based on autonomous responsible management with each GENCO for egies ‘enhancing the capability of technical innovation, reinforcing support for overseas sales channels, and joint development of GENCOs. We also maintain and reinforce a cooperative system for stable electricity supply creating the culture for win-win growth’ and strived to ensure management for win-win growth with SMEs. Group and management efficiency. Our company shares management information, discusses common current issues, Companies for and adjusts interest by holding a conference with groups of presidents from GENCOs every two months. Fostering Robust SMEs by Enhancing the Capability for Technical Innovation Cooperative R&D business To secure management stability in SMEs, KEPCO implements businesses to enhance their technical capability. Win-win Growth In 2014, GENCOs supplied stable electricity by completing construction of generation with 2,555MW in a timely manner and maintaining the high ratio of using power plants(over 73%), while electricity group companies Our company provides KRW 2.8 billion a year to conduct cooperative R&D with SMEs. In 2014, we significantly projects (Unit : Case) implement policy such as joint purchase of generation fuel, integrated operation of repair materials, and coincreased the number of tasks compared to the previous year through efforts to find R&D tasks, such as holding 18 operation in R&D for electricity technology for management efficiency. We reinforced a cooperative system : in special contests and workshops. We have supported 83 companies by increasing the amount of expense for 2012, KEPCO and six GENCOs established a joint business site to conduct the offshore wind power pilot project 63.6% testing in public certified institutions and expanding the qualification for supporting quality and environmental 11 11 in the Southwestern Sea. To establish electricity facilities based on the people’s trust, we are carrying out the management. We conduct business for supporting the industrial innovation 3.0 movement and productivity solar power business project with the participation of local residents in cooperation with GENCOs as a welfare innovation activities based on corporate quality, cost, and delivery in secondary and tertiary cooperative SMEs project for local residents in the area where transmission lines are constructed. and root industrial sectors. To enhance the synergetic effect of the electricity group, KEPCO finds cooperative tasks among electricity group 2012 2013 2014 Leading the Export for SMEs by Reinforcing Support for Overseas Sales Channels companies by holding a workshop for win-win cooperation on a regular basis. Our company is preparing measKEPCO conducts business to pioneer overseas sales channels for SMEs by utilizing the company’s brand power. ures for securing joint use facilities due to the relocation of the headquarters to the local area. We are getting In 2014, the company expanded the number of companies as ‘KEPCO Trusted Partner,’ a global certified brand ready for a new era of cooperation with new electricity group companies that can contribute to the developwhich was introduced to support export by SMEs, to 84 companies. To support overseas export by KTP certified ment of local communities and meet the people’s expectations. *About 8,300 employees working at the headquarters from ten electricity group companies moving to the local area(2014-2015) companies, we conduct the ‘overseas base camp project’ in Manila, the Philippines in cooperation with KOTRA and provide information on the market and transaction offices. As the company opened regular promotion halls for SMEs in overseas KEPCO business offices in the Philippines and Indonesia in 2013, we additionally opened the hall in KEPCO’s Hanoi office in 2014. We also took the lead in conducting export by SMEs worth USD 327.55 million by holding an export promotion presentation and exhibitions in 14 countries including Russia and Uzbekistan. KEPCO achieved export by SMEs worth USD 196.8 million by participating in the company’s overseas business projects jointly with SMEs, such as the nuclear power project in the UAE, Egbin power generation project in Nigeria, and distribution grid project in Dominica. Conference with groups of presidents from GENCOs Workshop for win-win growth with electricity group companies Vitalizing Corporate Participation by Creating the Culture for Win-win Growth In 2014, KEPCO held the contest for electricity technology business after the start of the win-win growth exhibition held for the first time in Korea in 2013. Through this contest, the company shared 34 independently owned In April 2014, KEPCO established the ‘CSV introduction plan’ a first for a public company, launched the CSV SPECIAL 34 patents with SMEs, while 131 SMEs achieved expansion of sales worth KRW 11.4 billion by participating in the execution system, and carried out the plan by reflecting it to company-wide strategy including the CSV development model specialized for electricity business. As a result, the company received the prize in November ‘1st booth. In 2015, as 185 companies participated in the event at Bitgaram Innovation City, where our headquarReceiving Prize from the CSV Porter Best Awards’, which recognize representative companies that lead the creation of corporate shared ters have been relocated, we held the ‘Bitgaram Festival’, which combined KEPCO’s win-win growth exhibition, 1st CSV Porter Award value. technology contest, and regional festival. Through this event, the significance for win-win growth with local Direction for CSV To carry out CSV strategically, KEPCO designated the Corporate Planning Department to be communities as well as SMEs was brought to attention. To improve the work convenience of SMEs due to the in charge of supervising overall CSV. The company is also establishing efficiency CSV processes such as makrelocation of KEPCO’s headquarters to Naju Innovation City, the company has established the business plaza at ing the budget guideline reflect the perspective of social responsibility and building an assessment system for the headquarters’ building to enable companies visiting Naju to carry out their work. checking business. The company has started overall supervision and control of major policy regarding sustainable management and CSV by organizing and operating the Sustainable Management Committee from 2015 and reinforced the CSV execution system by operating the CSV advisory committee. CSV business model KEPCO pursues a business model realizing economic, social, and environmental value, securing new profit sources and improving energy welfare through practical CSV business specialized for electricity business. The company will realize a sustainable energy environment for win-win growth with all stakeholders through ‘profit-sharing’ CSV activities, such as carrying out projects for supplying Microgrid-based electricity to remote areas and improving power facilities in developing countries Project for establishing eco-friendly and Gasado, Deokjeokdo, Ulleungdo, etc.. energy-independent islands Project for photovoltaic power in areas Signing an MOU regarding Miryang photovoltaic power SPC. constructing power facilities (September 2014) Project for education on electricity Training and education by inviting to the human resource development technology in developing countries center(Ghana, Botswana, etc.) Opening the regular SME promotion hall Supporting overseas Conducting business with electricity. (KEPCO Hanoi office) technology & Win-win growth exhibition * CSV : Creating Shared Value. It is not only a concept pursuing both economic profit and social contribution while carrying out original. sales channels for SMEs corporate management activities but also a new management paradigm to fulfill social responsibility in the new perspective beyond the. existing CSR(Corporate Social Responsibility). 58 2015 KEPCO Sustainability Report SustainabilityReport Company Overview Sustainable Management Five Core Issues Performance Data Appendices 59 05. Caring People Open KEPCO has expanded the size of recruitment to secure the best and talented people, who are the source of corporate competitiveness and basic condition for sustainable growth, and fulfill our social responsibility as Employment Korea’s largest public company. We will secure new personnel to realize a young and flexible organization and create sustainable growth engines. Largest-size Recruitment of New Employees among Public Companies (As of 2014) Category Number(Person) Notes OUR APPROACH Permanent . Open recruitment . 647. 482 college graduates, 165 high school graduates. employees (Regular position) For a company to be competitive, it needs to attract and retain good and capable people. With open employment focusing more on ca. Professional experienced 5. Overseas business, Law, Patent sector. employees pability than personal qualification and expansion of education opportunity, KEPCO will raise competitiveness for the global KEPCO. By creating the HWP with respect and consideration, our company will create a workplace that employees enjoy and build up the precious Researchers. 6. Targeting the best R&D personnel from domestic and overseas prestigious colleges . value of ‘human beings’, which cannot be replaced by anything else. Others 95 Skills positions(60 employees), etc. Youth interns. 1,434. 559 employees for recruitment-connection type, Major Issues in the Result of Materiality Assessment 875 employees for recruitment-priority type Creating Jobs and Improving Welfare ㅣ Reinforcing the Capability of Executives and Employees ㅣ Strengthening Safety and Health Performance for Operating Youth Interns Change rate 23.5% 44.8% 337 1,434 compared to compared to recruitment of recruitment of new 337 employees changing Recruiting 1,434 interns employees into permanent . interns in total employees To supplement personnel, we diversified the channels for securing the best and talented by recruiting experienced position workers and R&D personnel in prestigious universities at home and abroad that goes beyond the massive recruitment we’ve done in the past. We have also provided many people with employment the opportunities by diversifying our recruitment methods in regular position recruitment, such as the recruitmentconnected youth internship(high school graduate and college graduate level). The company is providing opportunities to reinforce employment capability as much as we can by operating a youth internship program with 1,434 participants. A total of 337 youth interns went on to get permanent jobs(45% of new employees), exceeding the government’s goal(20% of new employees). KEPCO is continuously striving to create more jobs for the youth. KEPCO will take the lead in ‘open employment’ by improving the recruitment process to select the best and talented people based on capability and ability without discrimination on academic background, age, or gender. We will lead in realizing win-win growth for creating jobs for the youth and expanding employment for the OUR PERFORMANCE OUR PLAN socially vulnerable by recruiting various social members through recruitment for high school graduates, youth 1,434 91 interns, local talents, and female talented workers. Establish the safety and health management persons hours system and reinforce on-site safety Recruiting youth interns Education hours for . management each employee Open employment and systemize programs 26 18 for fostering the talent suitable for needs Create labor-management relations for % % win-win growth and adopt a system for Ratio of female . Ratio of reducing . work-life balance recruitment safety accidents Carry out people-oriented management focusing on stakeholders’ human rights Voluntary work with youth interns 60 2015 KEPCO Sustainability Report Company Overview Sustainable Management Five Core Issues Performance Data Appendices 61 Fostering System for Fostering Global Future Talented People Systemic Education for Reinforcing Capability the Talent To create sustainable future growth engines, KEPCO is implementing specialized education for fostering profesKEPCO has established and operated ‘KEPCO capability model’ for operating a customized education course sional personnel. While our company nurtures special agents in various sectors by developing and operating for each individual according to their level and capability. Our company presents various education programs customized education courses in strategic technology, domestic business, and overseas business, we also confor developing individual capability by systemizing common leadership and job capability that KEPCO employduct strategic human resources management by establishing a pool for global future human resources at the ees are required to have based on an analysis of company’s vision, growth strategy, and internal and external level of 10% of all employees. environment. Fostering Professional Personnel for Core Technology Global challenge for new employees KEPCO Capability Model System KEPCO has set 12 major strategic technologies for securing future competitiveness in the electricity business and fostered professional personnel for early business. In 2014, the company implemented selective educaVision model for employees tion for 300 professional personnel members, and in 2015, we plan to nurture 200 workers. The company will establish a strategy and education system for securing human resources through positioning for each strategic Capability model technology and continuously train talented professionals in the generation, transmission, and sales sector. Organizational Personal capability capability · Common capability, Leadership capability, Job capability · Securing Development Assessment Reward KEPCO International Nuclear. Maintenance Positioning of Strategic Technology Core technology in the new market design sector Graduate School(KINGS) Strategic technology for creating Energy Valley H ESS AMI MG Systemic Operation of Education Courses EV charging Suitability level for new Primary: Core technology DR/EE SG station for business Education sector Operating program business strategy ICT(Big Data/loT) HVDC Reinforcing on-site education Fostering Meisters(experts) in each job sector Secondary: Convergence Superconductivity Offshore wind Enhancing global capability Intensive course for strategic language, Phone and Internet language education Marine energy technology CCUS Ordinary: R&D-focused CO2 generation SNG Cultivating passion in new Operating Global Challenge Course. technology employees L Progress ratio of securing technology H Connecting with colleges Diploma course specialized to electricity business : Professional MBA for overseas through industry-academybusiness, Convergence diploma course for technology and management, Master’s research sector degree for nuclear power at KINGS, Master’s degree for policy at public companies, etc. Fostering the Professional Personnel for Overseas Business Self-development and E-learning for humanities, leadership, job courses, etc.. KEPCO continuously implements professional education for each activity in overseas business, including a improving work capability professional MBA course for overseas business to strengthen growth by entering the overseas market and an intensive course for strategically learning language. Our company has reinforced the professionalism of workers Education for Internalizing Core Value conducting overseas nuclear facility business in the UAE and established and operated the mid and long-term So that all employees share our core values, KEPCO continuously operates education for change and innovation master plan for fostering personnel in the nuclear power sector, strengthening the capability to win orders for based on the roadmap at each level to collect corporate internal capability and take the lead in innovating the new nuclear facilities. Professional MBA for overseas business corporate culture and vitalizing communication. Expanding the Opportunity for Training and Education Stage 1(2012) Stage 2(2013) Stage 3(2014) KEPCO has expanded the education opportunities to develop the capabilities of employees. For this aim, the Recognizing risks and Internalizing DNA for Carrying out on-site company develops training and education programs meeting the needs for capability development and implesympathizing with change and innovation change and innovation ments feedback. We also encourage self-development by introducing a system that supports individual educathe need for change tion and continuously expand education opportunities by connecting MBO and group-based internal perfor· Mind Innovation Training · Trend Creator Training · Culture Change Action mance assessment. · Provide all 13,016 employees · Provide 4,263 executives with · Train 302 general manager-level with education education employees(Change Agent) Education hours and expense for each person 1,467 1,394 1,338 Supporting Life-long Education Education expense(KRW 1,000) Education hours(hour) 87.8 91.3 KEPCO helps soon-to-be retirees to adapt to retirement successfully by implementing outplacement education. 59.7 The company enhances accessibility and efficiency for trainees through on/offline learning for detailed subjects such as life design, starting business and reemployment, and placement and provides customized retirement support service by assigning a consultant for supporting individual retirement by trainees. 2012 2013 2014 62 2015 KEPCO Sustainability Report Company Overview Sustainable Management Five Core Issues Performance Data Appendices 63 Happy Realizing HWP in Communication and Harmony Gender Equality and Family-friendly Culture Workplace A happy workplace with work-life balance can improve a corporation’s productivity. To realize a ‘Happy WorkKEPCO conducts reward and promotion without any discrimination between men and women. As a result of proplace,’ KEPCO operates ‘Family Day’, a day when employees are encouraged to leave the office on time without active efforts to train female leaders, the number of female managers has continuously increased from a total of overtime work, providing books on childcare to female employees who expect to give birth, and sending conseven before 2000 to 214 female leaders as of April 2015. Through systematic childbirth and childcare support gratulatory cards to employees’ parents for their sixtieth or seventieth birthdays. systems and various programs for enhancing family relations, KEPCO supports employees to help them achieve a practical balance between work and life. To encourage employees to start families, we provide various leaves, In 2015, the company conducted Bitgaram Communication Exploration(May-June) to reinforce communication such as leaves for fetal examinations, parental leave for spouses, and leave for treating infertility. In 2008, we as employees at business sites visit the headquarters. We will also support energetic work life by providing established the company’s nursery facility(KEPCO Bitsarang Daycare Center) and are providing childcare services various programs such as ‘Fathers’ Camp’ to expand and improve communication with family members, Happy for 80 children of employees. As our company launched the flexible work system, such as commute at different Farm for experience in connection with local farm areas, and Healing Camp to help heal employees’ bodies times and time-based work, we established and operated the ‘pool system for alternative personnel’ for retirees and refresh their souls. Our company carries out reasonable welfare suitable for management conditions to and regular applicants to induce smooth operation of parental leave and childcare leave. enhance employees’ work satisfaction. We also strive to meet various welfare needs by continuously finding partnerships with external professional service companies. Change in Female Employees Recruitment of permanent employees Selection of executives(Unit : Person) Happy Work Place 2012 214(31%) 31 229(30%) 2013 49 193(25.6%) 2014 35 Workshop for female managers Education for Preventing Sexual Harassment To prevent sexual harassment, KEPCO operates both a secret report system for sexual harassment and center for handling complaints regarding sexual harassment in the HR management department at the headquarters and business offices. A total of 504 representatives for handling complaints on sexual harassment; the number of male and female representatives is equal. We also raise efficiency in consulting complaints by newly launching professional entrusted education for representatives and an intensive course for handling complaints. In 2014, Labor-management Culture for Win-win Growth the company conducted e-learning education for preventing sexual harassment for all employees four times. KEPCO operates the Union Shop system through which employees acquire qualification as labor union members upon joining the company in accordance with the relevant laws and collective agreement. We also guarantee legal and fair labor union activities within the extent permitted by the labor union law, collective agreement, Assessment Performance-oriented Human Resources Management(MBO) and Reward and labor-management agreement for the work time exemption system(time-off). As of late 2014, the number KEPCO’s performance assessment system is composed of achievement assessment by MBO and capability asof labor union members is 14,999, and the ratio of employees that have joined the labor union is 74.2%. sessment estimating the capability level. All employees are under the assessment with the same procedure and methods. Assessment results are reflected to scores that are used in promotion considerations and utilized as To ensure smooth labor-management communication and proactively share current management issues, KEPmaterials for personnel management, such as calculating the ratio of providing incentives and selecting trainers. CO operates the Labor-Management Joint Committee and continues cooperative labor-management relations. In 2014, the company discussed various management issues by holding labor-management meetings at the Fair and Reasonable Remuneration System headquarters and business sites 1,020 times and presentations for current management issues 402 times. We KEPCO’s remuneration system is composed of a basic annual income, job salary, incentive for annual income, have also completed construction projects for transmission lines such as the project in Miryang through laborand performance-based annual income. Based on the result of the MBO personnel assessment and organizamanagement joint efforts and realized stable electricity supply and demand. tional assessment, basic annual income and performance-based annual income are handled differently. To reinforce the fair remuneration system based on employees’ performance, the ratio of incentives based on annual performance assessment was increased(23%), and the power incentive and spot bonus system was improved. In preparation of aging in our society, our company operates a retirement system to help employees achieve stable living during their retirement. As of late 2014, the number of applicants for personal retirement pension accounts is 1,194, and the total amount of funds is KRW 109.1 billion. Differentiating assessment results Current Status of Applicants to Personal Differentiation of basic of each year by accumulation the Retirement Wage System (Unit : 100 persons) assessment salary during the term at the office Assessment of Severance Bitgaram communication exploration event Event to mark the relocation of the headquarters. pay system 92 (CEO and labor union chairperson) performance Corporate Differentiation of Differentiating assessment results DB system 76 assessment performance-based salary of each year by one time DC system 28 64 2015 KEPCO Sustainability Report Company Overview Sustainable Management Five Core Issues Performance Data Appendices 65 Human Rights Proclamation of Policy on Human Rights Management Spreading Safety Culture Management KEPCO recognizes the importance of human rights and implements policies to respect the human rights of all To spread and support safety culture, KEPCO publishes Safety-Zine, operates a safety accident forecast and the executives, employees, and stakeholders. In 1996, our company clarified the principles of respecting human warning system for each cycle, provides a safety calendar and traffic lights on a daily basis, conducts self-dirights and prohibiting discrimination by enacting and announcing the Code of Ethics by KEPCO. We signed up agnosis for web-utilizing safety guards, and implements e-learning safety education. During summer when for the UN Global Compact in 2005—a first for a Korean company—to comply with its principles on human rights the safety level is vulnerable, the labor union and management jointly operate a period of emphasizing indusand submit the report for complying with the ten major UNGC principles every year. In 2015, we conducted trial safety and health(June and July each year) to carry out special activities for preventing safety accidents self-diagnosis in accordance with the guideline on human rights management by the National Human Rights and achieve a zero-accident environment. We also strive to settle an autonomous culture through enhancing Commission to secure responsible leadership for human rights management, announced our company’s will safety awareness and exchanging safety information by holding an annual company-wide meeting for safety to realize human rights management internally and externally by proclaiming policy on human rights manageand health managers. To prevent electric shock accidents caused by touching electricity lines, KEPCO selects ment by the CEO, and established the human rights management system by checking the current status of Diagnosing safety in facilities various types of electric shock accidents based on the themes of the causes : electricity accidents when transexecution on a regular basis. porting or moving, outdoor activities from March to May, flooding during typhoon and monsoon season, and electric shocks at construction sites from June to September. Under these themes, we are implementing variHuman Rights Execution System ous promotion activities for safety by using various media(broadcast, newspaper, SNS, etc.). Change in Safety Accidents Safety Promotion for the People Comprehensive management Execution Monitoring and aid 1 (Corporate Planning Department) 2 (Office and department) 3 (Audit Department) Category 2012 2013 2014 Category Target Number/Period Total(case) 166(12) 153(10) 126(17) Broadcasting 9 companies such as YTN, etc. 937 times Reduction rate(%) 10.16 8.93 17.65 Newspaper. 12 companies such as Seoul 19 times. Economic Daily *Numbers inside() are the fatalities. Signboard 10 sites in the country For one month · Establishing a comprehensive · Implementing self-diagnosis · Receiving reports on violation plan for human rights on the checklist. of human rights. management Operating the System for Preventing Safety Accidents in Construction Sites · Checking performances and · Drawing improvements and · Taking corrective measures Considering that safety accidents at construction sites for suppliers’ employees such as falling and electric reporting cases internally and measures for implementation in case of violation of human shock(accounting for 40% of the entire safety accidents) and personnel for safety management on nationexternally rights wide construction sites(300,000 cases a year) still occur, KEPCO has established the real-time monitoring system for construction sites and operates the Safety Patrol to prevent safety accidents by randomly checking construction sites. The results of this check are comprehensively assessed once or more times each quarter, reported to the management, and shared with all business sites. In 2014, the examination was conducted a total of 49,134 times. Compliance with Ten Major Principles KEPCO does not discriminate employees due to race, religion, disability, gender, place of birth, and political Construction Site Monitoring System opinions in recruiting employees. The company permits employees to freely organize a labor union. While we prohibit forced labor and child labor in any form, the company makes appropriate compensation for accidents and diseases caused in the workplace. The company respects the human rights of all stakeholders by pursuing Construction site Sending a photo Monitoring Checking the site by taken by cell phone system supervisor’s PC balanced growth in harmony with local communities in business and minimizing environmental impact. Operating the Code of Conduct for Suppliers KEPCO requires all suppliers to comply with the ‘Code of Conduct for Suppliers’ to spread human rights management. The Code of Conduct for Suppliers is the ethical, social, and environmental standard for all suppliers in trade with KEPCO, and suppliers are only allowed to participate in bidding when they pledge to comply with Corrective measures for insufficient safety measures this code of conduct. Industrial Safety Introduction of Safety and Health Management System Health Management Program for Executives and Employees and Health KEPCO has introduced our safety and health management system to all business sites and 587 suppliers, and To support the health of executives and employees, KEPCO conducts special check-ups every two years in adwe acquired and maintained accredited certification. Our company has fostered professional personnel such as dition to the regular check-ups and examines their health conditions more closely. From 2014, the company certification reviewers and internal reviewers to operate the system effectively. By 2014, we have implemented has implemented special health check-ups for employees working the nightshift and expanded the number of education for training 88 certification reviewers and 103 internal reviewers. Among them, 47 applicants acbusiness sites with over 300 employees, over 50 employees, and under 50 employees consecutively each year. quired the qualification for certification reviewer. KEPCO organizes the safety management committee, which For business sites with over 300 employees, health managers were stationed at sites in charge of managing emis composed of five external experts from academic and safety management institutions and five team leadployees’ health and conducting health-related jobs. As for business sites with over 50 employees, employees’ ers from KEPCO. Our company operates the committee on a quarterly basis to review and give advice on the health conditions are examined on a regular basis through health agency institutions as well as conducting company’s important safety-related issues, such as the policy and system on safety and responses to safety health consultations. In connection with local health centers, we operate various health promotion programs accidents. such as smoking cessation clinic, health consultation on insulin resistance syndrome, and consultation on mental health to reinforce employees’ health management. 66 2015 KEPCO Sustainability Report Performance Data SPECIAL Charter of Electricity Service Code of Ethics for KEPCO Employees Enacted in 1999 Enacted in 1996 68 Economy Major declarations for sustainable Provide the standard for the implementation of Present a standard for right practices and decision on 70 Environment management electricity service to stably supply high-quality value for executives and employees by recognizing 72 Society electricity, maintain inexpensive electricity bills that it is imperative to establish a fair and transpar73 Others based on cost principles for customers, and handle ent ethical culture. customer requests swiftly and accurately. Our Resolution for Social Contribution Green Management Policy Enacted in 2005 Enacted in 2005 Promote sharing and participation and realizing a Fulfill corporate social responsibility through bright and warm-hearted society through social coneco-friendly management by establishing and tribution activities with love and sharing. implementing goals and detailed plans for green management. Quality Management Policy Code of Conduct for Suppliers Enacted in 1995 Enacted in 2012 Strive to create value for future growth, reinforcing Suggest compliance with the Code of Conduct with capability through strengthening quality capability ethical, social, and environmental standards for all and operating the quality system. suppliers trading with KEPCO. Declaration of Human Rights Management Enacted in 2015 Fulfill corporate social responsibility and pursuing sustainable development with the country and local communities by conducting human rights management that emphasizes human dignity and value in management activities. 한전인의 윤리헌장 전력 서비스 헌장 전 문 한국전력공사는 모든 고객에게 최고 품질의 전력을 공급하고 최상의 서비스를 제공함으로 써 국가경제와 사회 발전에 많은 기여를 해왔음을 매우 자랑스럽게 생각한다. 우리는 국가산업의 원동력이요 국민생활의 필수품인 전력을 이제 우리는 이러한 긍지와 자부심을 바탕으로 세계 최고수준을 지향하는 「Global Excellence」, 안정적으로 공급하며, 고객에게 언제나 만족스러운 서비스를 고객중심의 가치를 창출하는 「Customer Respect」, 높은 성과를 추구하는 「Performance Driven」, 도전과 혁신을 주도하는 「Challenge & Innovation」, 기업시민으로서 책임을 다 제공할 수 있도록 다음 사항을 성실히 실천하겠습니다. 하는 「Social Responsibility」의 핵심가치를 추구하여 회사의 모든 이해관계자들과 함 께 지속적으로 성장, 발전하는 세계적인 전력회사가 되고자 한다. •우리는 고객이 전기사용에 불편이 없도록 좋은 품질의 전기를 안정적 으로 공급하겠습니다. 이를 위해서는 공정하고 투명한 윤리문화 정착이 필수요건임을 인식하고 회사 모든 임직 전력 서비스 헌장 •우리는 원가주의에 기초하여 값싸고 안정적인 전기요금 수준을 유지 하겠습니다. 원이 지켜야 할 올바른 행동과 가치판단의 기준으로 윤리헌장을 제정하고 실천을 다짐한 다. •우리는 항상 고객의 편에서 생각하고 행동하며, 고객이 요청하신 업무를 신속하고 정확하며 친절하게 처리하겠습니다. 하나, 우리는 회사의 핵심가치와 비전을 공유하고, 도전적이고 진취적인 정신으로 사명을 완수하며 높은 윤리적 가치관을 바탕으로 제반 법규를 준수하면서 공정하고 성실하 이상의 목표를 실현하기 위해 구체적인 서비스이행기준을 게 업무를 수행한다. 정하고 이를 철저히 지킬 것을 약속드립니다. 하나, 우리는 고객에게 최고 품질의 전력과 서비스를 제공하며 고객존중을 몸소 실천하여 고객과의 공동번영을 추구한다. 하나, 우리는 혁신적인 경영활동을 통해 건전한 이익을 실현하여, 기업가치의 제고와 지속적 인 성장발전을 위해 앞장선다. 하나, 우리는 임직원 개개인의 인격을 존중하고, 공평하게 기회를 부여하며 쾌적하고 안전한 근무환경을 조성하여, 임직원이 회사에 대한 긍지와 자부심을 가질 수 있도록 노력한 다. 하나, 우리는 국내외 법규와 국제협약 등을 준수하고, 환경을 보호하며 사회의 일원으로서 공익활동에 적극 동참함으로써 국가와 사회발전에 이바지 한다. 2 Charter of Electricity Service Code of Ethics. Our Resolution. for KEPCO Employees for Social Contribution KEPCO 공급자 행동강령 -KEPCO Code of Conduct for SuppliersJuly. 2012 전 문 KEPCO는 녹색에너지와 스마트 기술 등을 통한 글로벌 에너지 시장의 표준을 선도하여 GLOBAL TOP GREEN & SMART ENERGY PIONEER라는 비젼을 달성함으로써 모든 인류가 깨끗하고 편리한 에너지 문화를 누릴 수 있는 행복한 미래를 만들어 가고자 합니다. 이를 위해 KEPCO가 제시하는 공급자를 위한 행동강령은 KEPCO와 거래하는 모든 공급자들이 준수하여야 할 기본적인 윤리적, 사회적, 환경적 기준이며, 이러한 기준의 준수가 KEPCO와 공급자 모두에게 글로벌 경쟁력은 물론 이익을 가져다 준다고 믿습니다. 본 KEPCO의 공급자를 위한 행동강령은 공급자와 그들의 임직원, 대리인 및 하도급 계약자들도(이하 ‘공급자’라 합니다.) 지켜야 할 기준이며, KEPCO는 지속 적인 소통과 대화를 통하여 공급자를 위한 행동강령의 준수를 권고할 것입니다. 이를 통하여 깨끗하고 투명한 기업문화 정립과 더불어 인류의 행복한 에너지 문화를 만들어 가기 위한 기반으로 삼기 위해 공급자를 위한 행동강령을 제정 하여 권고합니다. 일반 요건 KEPCO의 국내외 모든 공급자들은 국내법과 국제법 그리고 인권, 노동, 환경, 반부패와 관련하여 제정된 UN 글로벌 컴팩트 10대 원칙을 준수하여야 하며, 더불어 공급자 행동강령의 가이드라인을 성실히 준수하여야 합니다. 또한 계약 이행시 KEPCO가 추가적으로 제시하는 윤리, 사회, 환경에 관한 세부 요건을 준수하여야 하며, 공급자와 관련된 하도급 계약자들도 본 행동강령의 원칙들을 인지하고 준수하도록 권장하여야 합니다. Green Management Policy Quality Management Policy Code of Conduct. Declaration of Human. for Suppliers Rights Management 68 2015 KEPCO Sustainability Report Company Overview Sustainable Management Five Core Issues Performance Data Appendices 69 Economy Financial Information Creating economic value(Separate standard) Corporate Value(Based on closings in the year) Category 2012 2013 2014 Category 2012 2013 2014 Consolidated financial statements (Unit : KRW 100 million) Sales volume(GWh) 466,592 474,849 477,592 Stock price(KRW) 30,450 34,750 42,700 Item 54th(As of December 31, 2014) 53rd(As of December 31, 2013) 52nd(As of December 31, 2012) Sales(KRW 100 million) 493,349 536,924 573,344 Market price(KRW 100 million) 189,714 223,083 274,119 1. Current assets 168,199 152,691 139,335 Operating profit(KRW 100 million) 26,938 2,630 16,737 Credit rating(Moody's) A1 Stable A1 Stable Aa3 Stable (1) Trade receivables and other bonds 76,979 75,263 71,846 Net income(KRW 100 million) 32,266 2,383 10,388 Domestic ranking in market 7th. 9th. 4th. (2) Cash and cash equivalents 17,963 22,323 19,550 capitalization Cash flow(KRW 100 million) 7,702 44,899 62,716 (3) Others 73,257 55,105 47,939 * Turning into surplus in 2013 for the first time in six years from 2007 2. Non-current assets 1,468,884 1,402,582 1,322,193 (1) Property, plant and equipment 1,358,125 1,296,376 1,223,761 (2) Intangible assets 8,236 8,132 8,838 Distributing economic value (Unit : KRW 100 million) (3) Investments in associates, etc. 55,087 52,308 48,909 (4) Other non-current assets 47,436 45,766 40,685 Shareholders(Dividend) Government(national tax) Total assets 1,637,083 1,555,273 1,461,528 Category 2012 2013 2014 Year 2012 2013 2014 1. Paid-in capital 216,001 202,138 188,171 Government 122 680 Total -1,643 1,746 3,786 2. Non-current liabilities 872,832 838,628 762,715 General 302 1,606 Total liabilities 1,088,833 1,040,766 950,886 Foreigners 137 924 1. Paid-in capital 40,536 40,536 40,536 GENCOs(Purchased electricity cost) Total 561 3,210 2. Retained earnings 353,036 327,661 325,643 Year 2012 2013 2014 Dividend rate(%) 1.8 10.0 3. Other capital components 142,441 134,400 132,709 Total 440,591 452,228 467,547 4. Non-controlling equity 12,237 11,910 11,754 Total capitals 548,250 514,507 510,642 Local communities(Local tax and utility bills) Donation Total liabilities and capitals 1,637,083 1,555,273 1,461,528 Year 2012 2013 2014 Year 2012 2013 2014 Total 457 512 510 Total 133 140 161 Consolidated(Comprehensive) income statement (Unit : KRW 100 million) Item 54th(January 1 – December 31, 2014) 53rd(January 1 – December 31, 2013) 52nd(January 1 – December 31, 2012) Social contribution Executives and Employees 1. Sales 574,749 540,378 494,215 Year 2012 2013 2014 Category 2012 2013 2014 2. Cost of sales / Other sales and management expenses 516,873 525,188 502,394 Total 349 278 317 Wage 13,741 12,996 13,415 3. Operating loss/profit 57,876 15,190 -8,179 Retirement wage 2,073 2,063 145* 4. Other revenues 4,023 4,002 3,740 Welfare benefits 1,745 1,660 1,420 Amount of purchase of SME products 5. Other expenses 882 998 746 *Rapid reduction in retirement wage was caused by excluding incentive severance pay for Year 2012 2013 2014 6. Other loss/profi 1,074 1,285 -17,819 government management assessment(about KRW 120 billion) and decreased accumulated amount of retirement wage allowances(about KRW 60 billion) due to the introducTotal 42,201 42,565 50,288 7. Financial profit 8,853 6,295 11,284 tion of the retirement pension system. 8. Financial cost 31,400 29,316 30,683 9. Gain and loss in equity method 2,749 -423 1,770 Creditors(interests expense) Suppliers 10. Pre-tax margin 42,293 -3,965 -40,633 Year 2012 2013 2014 Year 2012 2013 2014 11. Income tax expenses 14,303 -5,708 -9,854 Total 16,036 15,252 13,941 Total 18 19 21 12. Net income 27,990 1,743 -30,779 Net income from controlling interests 26,869 600 -31,666 Net income from non-controlling interests 1,121 1,143 887 70 2015 KEPCO Sustainability Report Company Overview Sustainable Management Five Core Issues Performance Data Appendices 71 Environment Total amount of material use (Unit : Ton) Performance for implementing the national greenhouse gas target management system (Unit : 10,000 ton CO2eq) Category 2012 2013 2014 Category Based year 2012 2013 2014 (Average in 2007-2009) Concrete 464,161 455,026 453,498 National permitted amount 259 255 221 182 Metal 56,846 54,410 67,368 Amount of emissions 259 126 140 138 Earthenware 2,069 1,727 2,552 Amount of reduction exceeding -. 129. 81. 44. Wire 27,594 36,088 31,127 the permitted amount Others 4,529 6,118 8,423 Total 555,199 553,369 560,538 Generation of waste by type and amount of recycling Categorization of GHG emissions by KEPCO Category. 2012 2013 2014 . Generated Amount of Recycling . Generated Amount of Recycling . Generated Amount of Recycling . Scope 1(Direct emission) Scope 2(Indirect emission) Scope 3(Indirect emission) amount(Ton) recycling(Ton) rate(%) amount(Ton) recycling(Ton) rate(%) amount(Ton) recycling(Ton) rate(%) SF6 gas for insulation . Electricity and heating steam usage in . Emissions from employees’ business trips, Concrete 181,397 181,397 100 190,226 190,226 100 215,565 215,565 100 in transformation and distribution facilities buildings owned by KEPCO commuting, and products purchased or sold Metal 32,985 32,985 100 40,195 40,195 100 39,710 39,710 100 Earthenware 7,350 7,350 100 6,367 6,367 100 8,777 8,777 100 Wire 21,992 21,992 100 23,628 23,628 100 13,484 13,484 100 Scope 1, 2(2012-2014) (Unit : 10,000 ton CO2eq) Scope 3(2014) (Unit : 10,000 ton CO2eq) Others 1,881 1,881 100 809 809 100 898 898 100 Total 245,605 245,605 100 261,225 261,225 100 277,894 277,894 100 Category Scope 1 Scope 2 Notes Category Amount of Amount Commuting Business trips purchased of sold by employees 2014 128 14 electricity electricity Major 2013 130 13 greenhouse gas . Emission . 22,216. 21,969. 0.2. 5.3. SF6, CO2, CH4, N2O Change in the ratio of eco-friendly vehicles for business use 2012 117 13 * Emission factors : Basic emission factors in the 2006 IPCC national inventory guidelines * Emission factors Purchased products(purchased electricity) and electricity for sales : Category 2012 2013 2014 * Methodology : Adopting the methodology for collecting data on activity(Article 44) in the Corporate Value Chain(scope 3), Commuting and business trips by employees : LCI DB guideline for the national operation of management for goals of greenhouse gas energy and data by Statistics Korea Vehicles for business(car) 1,821 1,775 1,775 * All business branches including small-sized offices * Methodology(common) : Adopting the Accounting and Reporting Standard Eco-friendly vehicles(car) 1,472 1,460 1,488 Compact cars 1,402 1,383 1,357 Hybrid cars 60 67 91 Environmental investments Intensity of GHG emissions Electric cars 10 10 40 Category Scope 1 Scope 2 Category Cost(KRW 100 million) Percentage(%) Ratio of eco-friendly vehicles(%) 80.8 82.3 83.8 Emission(10,000 ton CO2eq) 128 14 Eco-friendly power facilities 34,293 91.65 * Amount of fuel used in owned vehicles in 2014 : 6,311,000l, Fuel efficiency : 7.24km/l Intensity(ton/KRW 100 million) 2.23 0.25 Prior prevention 1,609 4.35 Total emission intensity . 2.48 Post-processing activities 644 1.75 (ton CO2eq/KRW 100 million) Legal response, etc. 850 2.25 * Sales in 2014 : KRW 57 trillion and 474.9 billion Amount and ratio of green product purchase (Unit : KRW 1 million，%) Total 37,396 100 * Calculation method : Environmental Accounting System at KEPCO 2012 2013 2014 Total Green Ratio Total Green Ratio Total Green Ratio 7,496 7,058 94.2 19,414 18,819 96.9 8,326 7,868 94.5 72 2015 KEPCO Sustainability Report Company Overview Sustainable Management Five Core Issues Performance Data Appendices 73 Society Others Domestic performance for new recruitment (Unit : Person) GENCOs Address : 125, Hwarang-ro, Gyeongju, KHNP is Korea’s only company that operates nuclear power plants as well as hydropower and . Category 2012 2013 2014 Korea Hydro & Gyeongbuk pumped storage power plants. KHNP is operating nuclear power plants as base load and Nuclear Power Employees : 9,816. hydroelectric plants as peak load. KHNP has a total capacity of 26,039MW at 79 units, including . Total employees Newly recruited employees Total employees Newly recruited employees Total employees Newly recruited employees Co., ltd.(KHNP) Paid-in capital: KRW 1 trillion and 212.2 billion 23 nuclear units(20,716MW), 34 hydroelectric units(606MW), 16 pumped storage power generation 19,278 683 19,644 819 19,899 753 Website : www.khnp.co.kr units(4,700MW), and six renewable energy units(17MW). KHNP accounts for about 27.9% of total Equity share 100% domestic generation facilities with 93,216MW(excluding self-facilities). High school graduates 8,693 197 8,609 238 8,484 190 Local talented workers 11,658 303 11,743 350 11,739 321 Korea South-East Address : 32, 123beon-gil, Sadeul-ro, KOSEP is operating the Samcheonpo Thermal Power Plant and Yeongheung Thermal Power Plant Female workers 2,967 214 3151 229 3,310 193 Power Co., Ltd. Jinju, Gyeongsangnam-do as base load. KOSEP has an installed capacity of 9,976MW in total, which includes 8,648MW from Employees : 2,000 13 bituminous coal units(87.0%), 922MW from 10 gas combined cycle units(9.2%), and 325MW from (KOSEP) Disabled 508 10 519 17 509 6 Paid-in capital: KRW 290.1 billion anthracite units(3.3%). Under the long-term power supply plan, Yeongheung Thermal Power Plant Website : www.kosep.co.kr Units 5&6 are under construction with an installed capacity of 1,740MW. The Yeosu Power Plant Unit Workers who majored 11,991. 362. 12,263. 400. 12,434. 395. 1(350MW), which is shut down, is being replaced with thermal power plant. in the natural science . . . . . . Equity share 100% and engineering Korea Midland Address : 160, Boryeongbuk-ro, KOMIPO is operating the Boryeong Thermal Power Plant and the Seocheon Thermal Power Plant as Power Co., Ltd. Boryeong, Chungcheongnam-do base load. KOMIPO has an installed capacity of 8,434MW in total, which breaks down as 4,000MW of Number of employees for annual education Employees : 2,194 eight bituminous coal units(47.4%), 3,731MW of 23 gas combined cycle units(44.2%), 400MW of two (Unit : Person) (KOMIPO) Paid-in capital: KRW 137.3 billion anthracite units(4.7%), and 285MW of four oil units(3.4%). Under the long-term power supply plan, Website : www.komipo.co.kr KOMIPO is building Sinboryeong Units 1&2(2,000MW) and Seoul combined cycle Units 1&2(800MW). Category 2012 2013 2014 Equity share 100% High-ranking executives 1,884 1,969 2,223 Korea Western Address : 152 Taeheran St. Gangnamgu, Seoul WP is operating the Taean Thermal Power Plant as base load. The WP has an installed capacity of Entry-level executives 6,270 5,991 5,680 Power Co., Ltd. Employees : 2,046 9,305MW in total, which includes 4,000MW of eight bituminous coal units(43%), 3,867MW of 27 gas Employees 14,954 12,517 15,618 Paid-in capital : KRW 158.9 billion combined cycle units(41.6%), and 1,400MW of four oil units(15.0%). Under the long-term power (WP) Website : www.westempower.co.kr supply plan, WP is building Taean thermal plant Units 9&10(2,100MW). Equity share 100% Performance on operating various maternity protection systems (Unit : Person, %) Performance on operating the flexible work system (Unit : Person) Korea Southern Address : 40, Munhyeongeumyung-ro, KOSPO is operating the Hadong Thermal Power Plant as base load. KOSPO has an installed capacity Power Co., Ltd. Nam-gu, Busan of 9,217MW in total, which breaks down as 4,000MW of eight bituminous coal units(43.4%), 4,970MW Category 2012 2013 2014 Category 2012 2013 2014 Notes Employees : 1,993 of 33 gas combined cycle units(53.9%), 200MW of 2 oil units(2.2%), and 41MW of 19 wind units(1.3%). Paid-in capital: KRW 228.8 billion Under the long-term power supply plan, KOSPO is building Samcheok Green Power(2,044MW). Leave before and after childbirth 187 151 138 Commute with 21. 2,241. 1,215. Trial operation in Equity share 100% Website : www.kospo.co.kr different time summer of 2013 Parental leave(male employees) 217(14) 197(14) 185(15) Time-based work. 41. 44. 94. Including recruitment Korea East-West Address : 395, Jongga-ro, Jung-gu, Ulsan EWP is operating the Dangjin Thermal Power Plant and Honam Thermal Power Plant as base Leave for difficulty in pregnancy 6 10 10 load. EWP has an installed capacity of 9,137MW, which includes 4,500MW of 10 bituminous coal type and shifting type Power CO., Ltd. Employees : 2,112 Employees with shortened work for 3. 12. 10. Paid-in capital : KRW 282.9 billion units(49.3%), 2,972MW for 20 LNG combined cycle units(32.3%), 1,200MW of three oil units(13.1%), childcare * Self-business trip Smart Work center has been established and utilized in four business. Website : www.ewp.co.kr and 400MW of two anthracite units(4.4%). Under the long-term power supply plan, EWP is building sites including Seoul and Sejong(since January 2015) Equity share 100% Dangjin 9th and 10th units of thermal plants(2,040MW). Rate of return after parental 97/100. 99.2/100. 99.3/100. leave(Female/Male) KEPCO Group Companies and Companies with Equity Investment Performance on purchasing KEPCO Engineering Address : 260, Hyeoksin-ro, Gimcheon, As an engineering company related to power generators and plants, KEPCO Engineering & Construc-. Current status of suppliers of equipment (Basis date : January 2015) tion Company, Inc. has conducted the design of nuclear power plants and hydro-thermal plants, SME products in 2014 (Unit : KRW 100 million) & Construction Gyeongbuk Employees : 2,221 O&M for generation facilities, plant construction business, and PM/CM business since its foundation Company, Inc. Category Purchase Category Number of Number of Notes Paid-in capital : KRW 7.6 in 1975. The company implemented Korea-style standardization of the design of nuclear power Large Website : www.kepco-enc.com plants with 1,000MW and developed the next-generation nuclear power plant design. With this companies performance registered registered items companies design applied, the company is implementing design for 3rd, 4th, 5th, and 6th units of Shin-Kori, 1st 22,529 Female companies 6,029 and 2nd of Shin-Hanul, and UAE Barakah nuclear power plant. Equity share 66.3% (30.9%) Transmission and 235 626 SMEs Companies by the disabled, 217 Net number of companies. transformation KEPCO KPS Address : 211, Munhwa-ro, Naju, Jeonnam KEPCO Plant Service & Engineering(KPS) is a comprehensive plant service company and provides 50,288 Social enterprises : 184 companies . Co., Ltd. Employees : 5,069 high-quality maintenance services for power plants(nuclear, thermal, hydroelectric), transmission (69.1%) Distribution 212 1,052 Large companies. Products produced by 197 Paid-in capital : KRW 9 billion and substations, and industrial facilities. KPS is responsible for commissioning maintenance of . veterans and patriots Information 43 8 : 11 companies Website : www.kps.co.kr power plants under construction, and ordinary maintenance, planned outage, and other repair & communications . SMEs. maintenance of power plants in operation, contributing to preventing unplanned shutdowns and Others 43,765 : 173 companies improving the capacity factor. Equity share 52.5% Total 450 1,686 * Increasing performance on purchasing SME. products by KRW 772.3 billion compared to 2013 KEPCO Nuclear Address : 989-242 Daedeokdaero, KEPCO Nuclear Fuel is the only nuclear fuel design and manufacturing company that was established Fuel Co., Ltd. Yuseong-gu, Daejeon City to localize nuclear fuel and achieve technological self-reliance. KEPCO Nuclear Fuel is providing Current status of accident rate in ordered construction Employees : 1,033 nuclear fuel for all light and heavy water reactors in Korea and will supply fuel to the UAE nuclear Paid-in capital : KRW 93.2 billion power plant. As it completed development of two types of high-performance nuclear fuel, KEPCO Equity share 96.4% Website : www.knfc.co.kr Nuclear Fuel has secured competitiveness for exporting domestic nuclear fuel. Category 2012 2013 2014 Accident rate(%)1) 2.42 0.97 0.72 KEPCO KDN Address : 161, Bitgaram-ro, Naju, Jeonnam Since KEPCO Knowledge, Data & Network(KEPCO KDN) was founded as the IT provider of KEPCO, Co., Ltd. Employees : 1,230 KDN has offered total IT services, growing into a global electric power IT company. KEPCO KDN Rate of death in industrial accidents(%00) 2) 10.61 7.43 5.27 Paid-in capital : KRW 64 billion has been mainly engaged in the development/operation of information systems, electric power Website : www.kdn.com IT service, the development and maintenance of IT infrastructure, smart distribution system, and 1) Accident rate(%) = [(Death toll + Number of the injured) / Number of regular employees] x 100 information security. KEPCO KDN is now striving to enhance PLC AMI and smart distribution system 2) Rate of death in industrial accidents(%00) =(Death toll / Number of regular employees) x 10,000 Equity share 100% to realize the smart grid. 74 2015 KEPCO Sustainability Report Company Overview Sustainable Management Five Core Issues Performance Data Appendices 75 Others Current Status of Generation Facilities (As of December 31, 2014) Awards and Initiatives Engagement in Major Initiatives Capacity of facilities (Unit : %) Nuclear power (Unit : %) Contents Period Water power 7 Water power 2 Transparent Society Pact signed among CEOs of 18 public corporations and . June 2005. Oil 5 Oil 5 Korea Independent Commission Against Corruption Renewable Renewable energy, etc. 3 Renewable Portfolio Agreement signed with the Ministry of Commerce, Energy, and Industry July 2005 energy, etc. 5 Agreement to comply with UN Global Compact and 10 principles August 2005 Transparent Society Pact in the Electric Power Sector with 11 KEPCO Group companies and . September 2005. LNG 22 LNG 32 major electric power companies 93,216 517,771 Integrity Pact between KEPCO and partner companies(1,519 companies, 18,135 persons) January 2006 MW GWh Agreement with private sector organizations on business cooperation in the area of the environment(UNEP National Committee June 2007. for Korea, Korea Green Foundation, Korea Women’s Environmental Network) Coal 29 Second Renewable Portfolio Agreement signed with the Ministry of Knowledge and Economy July 2009 Coal 39 Accession to UN Global Compact in Korea December 2009 Sisterhood partnership with 36 traditional markets August 2011 Nuclear power 22 Nuclear power 30 Joint Agreement on Integrity and Ethical Practices of KEPCO Group companies(10 companies) June 2012 Cooperative Shared Growth Pact in the Power Equipment Sector June 2012 Capacity of facilities in each company (Unit : %) Select 65 power industry SMEs as KEPCO Trusted Partners July 2012 Contracts for transferring technology to SMEs for 27 patent cases owned by KEPCO September 2013 KHNP KOSEP KOMIPO WP KOSPO EWP Others Signed a contract for jointly fostering professional personnel among electricity group companies October 2013 28 11 9 10 10 10 22 Signed a contract for mutual growth and fair transactions with 214 SMEs December 2013 * Percentage of KEPCO GENCOs : 72,035MW(78%) based on facilities, 442,914GWh(85%) based on the amount of generation Held a forum for the new growth engine in the electricity industry and . March 2014. workshop for prospective technology by SMEs Announced strategy for supporting win-win growth with sustainable SMEs March 2014 Current Status of Prizes Won in 2014 Award Institution Period Best Prize in the service sector by Korean Reliability Society Awards Korean Reliability Society June 2014 Best Prize in the LACP Vision Awards. League of American Communication July 2014. Professionals Current status of electricity sales (As of December 31, 2014) Gold Prize for one case and Silver Prize for one case by participating in the Taiwanese Industrial Property Office. September 2014. international invention exhibition Presidential citation for eco-friendly merit in Korea 2014 Ministry of Environment October 2014 Amount of electricity sales (Unit : GWh) Electric Energy Sales Revenue Silver Prize in the Asian Utility Award EEI(Edison Electric Institute) October 2014 Best company in job invention 2014 Korean Industrial Property Office October 2014 Best Prize in the public sector for Korea SNS Award. Korea Association for Social Content’s October 2014. Households Households KRW Development 62,675 7 trillion and 827.7 billion Citation for merit in creating Ansim Village Ministry of Public Safety and Security December 2014 KRW Citation for merit in fostering cooperatives and creating jobs Ministry of Strategy and Finance December 2014 477,591 Public use/service 150,299 53 trillion and Public use/service KRW GWh 144.1 billion 17 trillion and 965.5 billion Presidential citation for Korea Voluntary Work Awards. Ministry of Government Administration December 2014. and Home Affairs Best Prize in the Energy Industry Award 2014. Korean Resource Economics December 2014. Association Industry Industry KRW 264,618 27 trillion and 350.9 billion CSV Porter Prize Institute for Industrial Policy Studies December 2014 76 2015 KEPCO Sustainability Report Others Current Status of Associations and International Organization Memberships Society/Association name Purpose for membership Period Appendices 75 77 Independent Assurance Statement G4 Index Korean Institute of Electrical Engineers Promotion and development of academics and technology related to electrical engineering 1961 Korea Standard Association. Exchange of information on technological standards, including industrial standardization and 1964. quality management Korea Electric Association Promotion and development of electric industry 1965 Korea Atomic Industrial Forum Exchange of nuclear technology at home and abroad 1975 International Construction Association Raising competitiveness by collecting and analyzing information on overseas construction 1976 Korea Management Association Innovating management and providing consulting support 1981 Korean Society for Quality Management. Exchange of information among quality management organizations to improve quality 1995. management activities Korean Institute of Electrical and Electronic Academic exchange and cooperation between industry and academia related to electrical and 1996. Material Engineers electronic material engineering AESIEAP1) Cooperation among electric power companies & experts of East Asia and the Western Pacific 1998 Korea New & Renewable Energy Association Promotion of new and renewable energy industry and information sharing 2004 EEI2) . Protection of the rights of U.S. electric power companies and provision of information on the 2004. electric power industry Korea Plant Industries Association Exchanging information to raise competitiveness in the plant industry and expand export 2005 Korea Nuclear Society Technology development and academic exchange with regard to nuclear power 2007 AEIC3) Technological exchange among electric power companies in North America 2008 Energy & Mineral . Mutual cooperation for overseas resources development industries and consultation on measures 2008. Resources Development of Korea for joint engagement Korean Association for . Developing policies and cooperation for the protection of industrial technology. 2009. Industrial Technology Security Korea Invention Promotion Association Exchange of needs and trends of IPR market 2009 Korea Smart Grid Association Smart grid information sharing and mutual cooperation 2009 Korea carbon Capture and Storage Spread and support for providing CCS technology. 2011. Association Korea Nuclear Association for . Export of Korean standard nuclear power plant, analysis of overseas nuclear trends, mutual 2011. International Cooperation cooperation and information sharing in the nuclear industry World Nuclear Export Company Group Pursuing non-proliferation of nuclear power and safety in nuclear facilities 2011 Future Energy Forum Review current affairs and policies in the energy sector 2013 Korea Photovoltaic Industry Association Market research, participate in proposing policies, collect information on new technology 2013 Korea Wind Energy Association Market research, participate in proposing policies, collect information on new technology 2014 1) AESIEAP : Association of the Electricity Supply Industry of East Asia and the Western Pacific) 2) EEI : Edison Electric Institute 3) AEIC : Association of Edison Illuminating Companies Overview of 12 Major Strategic Technologies 1. IGCC-SNG(Integrated Gasification Combined Cycle) Eco-friendly combined plant to produce electricity(IGCC) and synthetic natural gas(SNG) by using low-grade coals 2. CCUS(Carbon Capture, Use and Storage) Technology to compress, store, and utilize high purity carbon dioxide(CO2) 3. Offshore wind power Technology to supply generation electricity through economic development of marine and offshore energy and stable grid connection 4.. Marine energy Generation technology using physical/chemical marine energy such as tidal current, tidal energy, wave energy, difference in temperature, and . generation by difference in salinity 5.. HVDC T  ransmission technology with high-voltage direct current for transmission grid handling massive amounts, long-distance electricity transport, and connecting renewable power complex 6. Superconductivity Technology to transport and change high-efficiency and stable electricity based on superconductivity characteristics 7. Microgrid System for producing, storing, and consuming electricity by the optimal organization composition of dispersed resources in small regions. 8. Smart Grid Next-generation electricity grid technology optimizing energy efficiency by connecting ICT technology to the existing electricity grid 9.. DR&EE Apps.(Demand Response & Efficiency Enhancement) T  echnology based on business advancement by change in policy on energy. (supply → demand, government-led → market-focused) 10. Electricity ICT solution Technology to create new business opportunities by finding out core information in Cloud-based Big Data . 2 generation(Carbon dioxide generation) High-efficiency generation technology producing electricity by using CO2 in the supercritical state through . 11. CO working fluid instead of steam, which is regularly used . (Energy Storage System) Technology for the management system in generation facilities to stabilize output of renewable energy with instability and . 12. ESS deal with the peak load 78 2015 KEPCO Sustainability Report Company Overview Sustainable Management Five Core Issues Performance Data Appendices 79 Independent Assurance Statement for ‘KEPCO Sustainability Report 2015’ To KEPCO’s stakeholders The assurance was undertaken by following the methodology specified 1. Inclusivity : Stakeholder Engagement Recommendations Korea Electric Power Corporation(KEPCO) commissioned the Korea below. The principle of inclusivity articulates that organizations should include The Assurer commends Korea Electric Power Corporation for carrying Productivity Center(the ‘Assurer’) to provide an independent assurance 1. Verified compliance with the requirements for Core Options in the stakeholders in developing and achieving an accountable and strategic out a variety of efforts to improve sustainability and resulting of its Sustainability Report 2015(the ‘Report’). GRI G4 Guidelines. response to sustainability. To comply with the inclusivity principle, performances, and presents the following recommendations to 2. Verified consistency with the principles dictating the content and KEPCO defines its major stakeholders in eight groups such as people, enhance future sustainability reports and sustainable management. Responsibility and Integrity quality of sustainability reports based on the GRI G4 Guidelines. customers, shareholders and investors, government and relevant Korea Electric Power Corporation(KEPCO) is responsible for the 3. V erified the appropriateness of identifying key issues and the institutions, domestic partners, overseas partners, and executives 1. It is recommended to strictly manage data regarding sustainable reliability and accuracy of all information and opinions presented in this responsiveness to the content presented in the Report by the material and employees. As the company introduces communication methods management by setting the standard and scope of collection and ‘Report’. The Assurer holds the responsibility that lies solely in providing analysis methodology, media research, and benchmarking. with each group and its efforts to deal with issues, it was identified management department. It needs to establish the scope of report third party verification of the content in the ‘Report’. As an independent 4. Verified the appropriateness of the report content with other sources that KEPCO proactively collects stakeholders’ opinions through active by KEPCO for GENCOs, group companies, and mutual investment assurance agency, the Assurer was neither involved in the process of and searched for incorrect information through comparative analysis. communication. It is analyzed that the company’s efforts to heighten companies and collect data by establishing the process of collecting preparing this ‘Report’ with Korea Electric Power Corporation(KEPCO) 5. On-site verification at the head office and plant has been conducted the information disclosure level and diversify communication channels and managing official data. It is also recommended to improve the nor in any conflicts of interest that may undermine our independence. to confirm evidence for key data and information as well as internal utilizing SNS(Social Networking Service) are remarkable. system by checking data regularly by the relevant departments in processes. charge to present data in accordance with the same standard in the Assurance Standards 2. Materiality : Selecting and Reporting Major Issues entire Report. The independent verification process was planned and performed Findings and Conclusions The principle of materiality articulates that organizations should in accordance with the AA1000AS(2008) Assurance Standard to It is the Assurer’s opinion that the Report fairly and accurately presents focus on issues relevant and material to both the organization and its 2. G lobal advanced companies strive to report performances by provide Type 1 moderate level of assurance. This is achieved through the sustainability efforts and performance of Korea Electric Power major stakeholders. KEPCO organizes its sustainable management connecting non-financial performance with financial performance for the evaluation of the organization’s adherence to the AA1000APS Corporation(KEPCO). It is also verified that the Report complies with issues by considering not only internal economic, environmental, and differentiation. It is recommended to review sustainable management Accountability Principles(2008) of Inclusivity, Materiality, and the requirements for Core Options in the GRI G4 Guidelines. In terms social activities and performances, but also the external environment performances on a regular basis and draw environmental and Responsiveness. Additionally, the assurance was performed to ascertain of General Standard Disclosures, the Report is found to comply with based on various analysis and research results. It was checked that social performance to connect with financial performance. As this is the organization’s adherence to the Global Reporting Initiative(GRI) G4 the requirements for Core Options. For Specific Standard Disclosures, the company selected 12 major issues by conducting the materiality required in various sustainable management assessments, this is a Guidelines. Disclosure on Management Approach(DMA) and indicators for material process based on the influence on stakeholders and significance for condition for achieving good assessment results and will serve as the issues drawn by the decision process, the items for the Report are as sustainable management. Finally, it was confirmed that major issues basis for becoming an advanced company. Assurance Limitations follows. were organized into five themes, and major activities and performances Based on the aforementioned assurance standards, the Assurer are reflected in the Report based on management principles(DMA) June 2015 performed verification of the organization’s sustainability performance reflecting the background, performance, and plan. Hong Sun-jik and credibility during 2014. As for some environmental data such as Chairman, Korea Productivity Center greenhouse gas emissions and amount of water usage, we deliberated 3. Responsiveness : Responding to Issues by the Organization on materials which were submitted to the government. As for economic The principle of responsiveness articulates that organizations should data such as financial data, financial statements, which was audited by be responsive to issues that may have impacts on stakeholders’ auditing institutions, the data on ALIO were checked. In terms of social performance. KEPCO organizes the composition of the Report under five Kim Dong-su, Park Tae-ho data, we checked the moderate level of the verification by using Type 1 themes and faithfully discloses its efforts in each theme by reporting Director of Sustainability . Team Leader and sampling. Site inspection was performed at the head office in Naju. environmental analysis, response process, strategy, and performance Management Center Therefore, the Assurer clearly states that any additional verification in detail. Through this Report, it is expected that stakeholders can Mun Seon-yeong . Yu Jeong-a conducted in the future may issue varied results. check the characteristics of the electricity industry and KEPCO’s current Expert advisor Researcher performance and future direction. Assurance Methodology Contents Material Aspect DMA & Indicators Ethical Management · Anti-corruption DMA, SO4, SO5 Respecting Customers. · Availability & Reliability. DMA, EU6, EU10. The Sustainability Management Center of the Korea Productivity Center is an assurance agency officially certified by · Demand-Side Management DMA, EU7 Accountability, established AA1000, the international standards for Stakeholder engagement and verification, and has Adding Technology. · Research & Development. DMA, EU8. qualifications to perform independent assurance engagements. Our Assurance Committee is also comprised of competent · Products and Services DMA, EN27 experts who have in-depth experience in sustainability management consulting and assurance and completed the relevant Preserving the Environment. · Energy. DMA, EN3, EN4, EN5, EN6. professional training. · Emissions DMA, EN15, EN16, EN17, EN18 Together with Everyone. · Anti-competitive Behavior. DMA, SO7. * AA1000AS(2008) : Enacted by Accountability, the AA1000 Assurance Standard(2008) is a global standard for verification and . · Local Communities DMA, SO1, SO2 provides methods for reporting issues on sustainable management by assessing the operation of organization for management . performance, compliance with principles, and credibility of information on performance Thinking of People . · Employment. DMA, LA1, LA2, EU14, EU15, EU16. 000-81 * AA1000APS(2008) : Enacted by Accountability, the AA1000 Accountability Principles Standard(2008) is a global standard for . . · Occupational Health and Safety. DMA, LA6, LA7. verification and provides the principles for the foundation of the AA1000 standard. · Training and Education DMA, LA9, LA10, LA11 80 2015 KEPCO Sustainability Report Company Overview Sustainable Management Five Core Issues Performance Data Appendices 81 GRI G4 Index General Standard Disclosure ● : Full ◐: Partial N/A: Not Applicable 3rd Party G4 Indicator ISO 26000 Coverage Page / Direct Answer Assurance 3rd Party G4 Indicator ISO 26000 Coverage Page / Direct Answer Assurance Governance Strategy and Analysis G4-34. Governance Structure of the Organization, Including Committees of the Highest . . 6.2 7.4.3 7.7.5 ●. p. 12. ●. . Governance Body, and Any Committees Responsible for Decision-making on Economic, . . . . G4-1. Statement from the Most Senior Decision-maker of the Organization(such as CEO, chair, 4.7 6.2 7.4.2. ●. p. 7. ●. Environmental and Social Impacts . or equivalent senior position) about the Relevance of Sustainability to the Organization . . . . and the Organization’s Strategy for Addressing Sustainability G4-38 Composition of the Highest Governance Body and Its Committees ● p. 15 ● G4-2 Description of Key Impacts, Risks, and Opportunities ● p. 7 ● G4-39 Whether the Chair of the Highest Governance Body is Also an Executive Officer ● p. 14 ● G4-40. Nomination and Selection Processes for the Highest Governance Body and Its Com. ●. p. 15. ●. Organizational Profile . mittees, and the Criteria Used for Nomination and Selecting Highest Governance Body . . . . Members G4-3 Name of the Organization ● p. 8 ● G4-44. Processes for Evaluation of the Highest Governance Body’s Performance with Respect to . ◐. p. 15. ●. G4-4 Primary Brands, Products, and Services 6.3.10 6.4.1-6.4.2 . ● p. 8 ● Governance of Economic, Environmental and Social Topics G4-5 Location of the Organization’s Headquarters 6.4.3 6.4.4 6.4.5 . ● p. 85 ● G4-45. Highest Governance Body’s Role in the Identification and Management of Economic, . ◐. p. 15. ●. G4-6. Number of Countries Where the Organization Operates, and Names of Countries Where 6.8.5 7.8 . ●. p. 8. ●. . Environmental and Social Impacts, Risks, and Opportunities(Including the Highest . . . . . Either the Organization has Significant Operations or That are Specifically Relevant to . . . . . Governance Body’s Role in the Implementation of Due Diligence Process) and Whether . . . . the Sustainability Topics Covered in the Report . Stakeholder Consultation is Used to Support the Highest Governance Body’s . . . . . . Identification and Management of Economic, Environmental and Social Impacts, Risks, . . . . G4-7 Nature of Ownership and Legal Form ● p. 8 ● and Opportunities G4-8. Markets Served(including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of . . ●. p. 8. ●. customers and beneficiaries) G4-9 Scale of the Organization ● p. 8 ● Ethics and Integrity G4-10 Total Number of Employees ● p. 8, 72 ● G4-56. Organization’s Values, Principles, Standards and Norms of Behavior Such as Codes of 4.4 6.6.3 . ●. p. 18. ●. EU1 Installed Capacity, Broken down by Primary Energy Source and by Regulatory Regime ● p. 74 ● Conduct and Codes of Ethics EU2 Net Energy Output Broken down by Primary Energy Source and by Regulatory Regime ● p. 74 ● G4-57. Internal and External Mechanisms for Seeking Advice on Ethical and Lawful Behavior, . ●. p. 19. ●. and Matters Related to Organizational Integrity, Such as Help Lines or Advice Lines EU4. Length of above and Underground Transmission and Distribution Lines by Regulatory . ●. p. 28. ●. Regime G4-58. Report the internal and external mechanisms for reporting concerns about unethical or . ●. p. 19. ●. . unlawful behavior, and matters related to organizational integrity, such as escalation . . . . EU5. Allocation of CO2Emissions Allowances or Equivalent, Broken down by Carbon Trading . ●. p. 45. ●. through line management, whistleblowing mechanisms or hotlines Framework G4-11 Percentage of Total Employees Covered by Collective Bargaining Agreements ● p. 62 ● G4-12 Organization’s Supply Chain ● p. 8, 72 ● G4-13. Any Significant Changes during the Reporting Period Regarding the Organization’s Size, . ●. p. 85. ●. Structure, Ownership, or its Supply Chain G4-14 Precautionary Approach or Principle Addressed by the Organization ● p. 16~17 ● G4-15. List of Externally Developed Economic, Environmental and Social Charters, Principles, . ●. p. 75. ●. or Other Initiatives to Which the Organization Subscribes or Which It Endorses G4-16. Memberships of Associations(such as industry associations) and National or . . ●. p. 76. ●. International Advocacy Organizations Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries Specific Standard Disclosure ● : Full ◐: Partial N/A: Not Applicable G4-17. Entities Included in the Organization’s Consolidated Financial Statements or Equivalent . ●. p. 84. ●. Documents or Not Covered by the Report 3rd Party G4-18. Process for Defining the Report Content and the Aspect Boundaries and How the . 5.2 7.3.2 7.3.4 . ●. p. 22~23. ●. Aspect G4 Indicator ISO 26000 Coverage Page / Direct Answer Assurance Organization Has Implemented the Reporting Principles for Defining Report Content G4-19 List of All the Material Aspects Identified in the Process for Defining Report Content ● p. 23 ● Economic G4-20 Aspect Boundary within the Organization for Each Material Aspect ● p. 23 ● Economic. EC1. Direct Economic Value Generated and Distributed. 6.8.1-6.8.2 6.8.3 6.8.7. ●. p. 68~69. ●. G4-21 Aspect Boundary outside the Organization for Each Material Aspect ● p. 23 ● Performance 6.8.9 G4-22. Effects of Any Restatements of Information Provided in Previous Reports, and . . ●. . Revised parts compared to the last ●. . EC2. Financial Implications and Other Risks and Opportunities for the 6.5.5. ●. p. 38~39. ●. the Reasons for Such Restatements year are marked with footnote Organization’s Activities Due to Climate Change G4-23. Significant Changes from Previous Reporting Periods in the Scope and . . ●. . changes No significant ●. EC3 Coverage of the Organization’s Defined Benefit Plan Obligations 6.8.7 ● p. 63, 69 ● Aspect Boundaries Market Presence. EC6. Proportion of Senior Management Hired from the . 6.4.3 6.8.1-6.8.2 6.8.5 ●. p. 72. ●. Local communities at Significant Locations of Operation 6.8.7 Stakeholder Engagement Indirect Economic . EC7. Development and Impact of Infrastructure Investments and . 6.3.9 6.8.1-6.8.2 6.8.7 ◐. p. 52~55. ●. G4-24 List of Stakeholder Groups Engaged by the Organization ● p. 21 ● Impacts Services Supported 6.8.9 G4-25 Basis for Identification and Selection of Stakeholders with Whom to Engage ◐ p. 21 ● . EC8. Significant Indirect Economic Impacts, Including the Extent of 6.3.9 6.6.6 6.6.7 6.7.8 ◐. p. 49~51. ●. . . Impacts . 6.8.1-6.8.2 6.8.5 6.8.7 . . . G4-26. Organization’s Approach to Stakeholder Engagement, Including Frequency of . . ●. p. 21. ●. 5.3 6.8.9 . Engagement by Type and by Stakeholder Group, and an Indication of Whether Any of . . . . the Engagement was Undertaken Specifically as Part of the Report Preparation Process Procurement Practices . EC9. Proportion of Spending on Local Suppliers at Significant Locations 6.4.3 6.6.6 6.8.1-6.8.2 ◐. p. 72. ●. of Operation 6.8.7 G4-27. Key Topics and Concerns that Have Been Raised through Stakeholders Engagement, . ●. p. 21. ●. . and How the Organization Has Responded to Those Key Topics and Concerns, . . . . . Availability & Reliability. G4-DMA Management Approach ● p. 26 ● . Including through Its Reporting. Stakeholder Groups that Raised Each of the . . . . . EU6. Management Approach to Ensure Shore and Long-term electricity 6.3.3 6.5.3 6.5.4 6.5.5 ●. p. 28. ●. Key Topics and Concerns Availability and Reliability 6.5.6 6.7.8 6.8.3 6.8.6 . EU10. Planned Capacity Against Projected Electricity Demand over the 6.3.3 6.7.5. ●. p. 28~29. ●. Report Profile Long Term, Broken down by Energy Source and Regulatory Regime . G4-28 Period Such as Fiscal or Calendar year for Information Provided ● p. 85 ● Demand-Side. G4-DMA Management Approach ● p. 26 ● G4-29 Date of Most Recent Previous Report(if any) ● p. 85 ● Management EU7. Demand-side Management Programs Including Residential, . 6.3.3 6.5.3 6.5.4 6.5.5 ●. p. 30~31. ●. G4-30 Reporting Cycle(such as annual, biennial) ● p. 85 ● Commercial, Institutional and Industrial Programs 6.7.5 6.7.8 6.8.6 G4-31 Contact Point for Questions Regarding the Report or Its Contents 7.5.3 7.6.2 ● p. 85 ● Research & Development. G4-DMA Management Approach ● p. 32 ● . EU8. Research and Development Activity and Expenditure Aimed at 6.8.6. ●. p. 36~37. ●. G4-32. ‘In Accordance’ Option the Organization Has Chosen and the GRI Content Index for the . ●. p. 80~83. ●. Chosen Option . Providing Reliable Electricity and Promoting Sustainable . . . . . Development G4-33. Organization’s Policy and Current Practice with Regard to Seeking External Assurance for . ●. p. 78~79. ●. . the Report, Scope and Basis of Any External Assurance Provided, Relationship between . . . . System Efficiency. EU11. Average Generation Efficiency of Thermal Plants by Energy Source . ●. p. 81. ●. . the Organization and the Assurance Providers, Whether the Highest Governance Body or . . . . and by Regulatory Regime . Senior Executives are Involved in Seeking Assurance for the Organization’s Sustainability . . . . . EU12. Transmission and Distribution Losses as a Percentage of Total . ●. p. 28, 43. ●. Report Energy 82 2015 KEPCO Sustainability Report Company Overview Sustainable Management Five Core Issues Performance Data Appendices 83 GRI G4 Index Specific Standard Disclosure ●: Full ◐: Partial N/A: Not Applicable 3rd Party 3rd Party Aspect G4 Indicator ISO 26000 Coverage Page / Direct Answer Assurance Aspect G4 Indicator ISO 26000 Coverage Page / Direct Answer Assurance Environmental Supplier Assessment for LA15. Significant Actual and Potential Negative Impacts for labor . 6.3.5 6.4.3 6.6.6 7.3.1. ●. p. 64, 66. ●. Materials EN1 Materials Used by Weight or Volume 6.5.4 ● p. 70 ● Labor Practices practices in the Supply Chain and Actions taken Energy G4-DMA Management Approach ● p. 40 ● Investment. HR2. Total Hours of Employee Training on Human Rights Policies or 6.3.5. ●. p. 63. ●. . . Procedures Concerning Aspects of Human Rights That Relevant to . . . . EN3 Energy Consumption within the Organization 6.5.4 ● p. 46 ● Operations, Including the Percentage of Employees Trained EN5 Energy Consumption outside of the Organization ● p. 46 ● Freedom of Association. HR4. Operations and Suppliers Identified in Which the Right to Exercise 6.3.3 6.3.4 6.3.5 6.3.8 ●. p. 62. ●. EN6 Reduction of Energy Consumption 6.5.4 6.5.5 ● p. 46 ● and Collective Bargain. Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining may be Violated 6.3.10 6.4.5 6.6.6. . . . ing or at Significant Risk, and Measures Taken to Support these Rights EN7 Reductions in Energy Requirements of Products and Services ◐ p. 43 ● Child Labor. HR5. Operations and Suppliers Identified as Having Significant Risk for 6.3.3 6.3.4 6.3.5 6.3.7 ●. . No violation ●. Water EN8 Total Water Withdrawal by Source 6.5.6 ● p. 46 ● . . Incidents of Child Labor, and Measures Taken to Contribute to the 6.3.10 6.6.6 6.8.4. . . . . EN9. Water Sources Significantly Affected by Withdrawal of Water . 6.5.7. N/A. . Domestic business sites ●. Effective Abolition of Child Labor have no water sources that . . . . . . affected by . are significantly Forced of Compulsory HR6. Operations and Suppliers Identified as Having Significant Risk for 6.3.3 6.3.4 6.3.5 6.3.10 ●. . No violation ●. withdrawal of water Labor. . Incidents of Forced or Compulsory Labor, and Measures to . 6.6.6. . . . Biodiversity. EN11. Operational Sites Owned, Leased, Managed in, or Adjacent to, 6.5.6. ◐. p. 42. ●. . . Contribute to the Elimination of All Forms of Forced or Compulsory . . . . . . Protected Areas and Areas of High Biodiversity Value outside . . . . Labor Protected Areas Supplier Human Rights HR11. Significant Actual and Potential Negative Human Rights Impacts in 6.3.3 6.3.4 6.3.5 6.6.6. ●. p. 62, 64. ●. . EN12. Description of Significant Impacts of Activities, Products, and . ◐. p. 42. ●. Assessment the Supply Chain and Actions taken . . Services on Biodiversity in Protected Areas and Areas of High . . . . Local Communities G4-DMA Management Approach p. 48, 52 Biodiversity Value outside Protected Areas ● ● SO1. Percentage of Operations with Implemented Local communities 6.3.9 6.5.1-6.5.2 6.5.3 ◐. p. 52~55. ●. Emissions G4-DMA Management Approach ● p. 40, 44 ● . Engagement, Impact Assessments, and Development Programs 6.8 EN15 Direct Greenhouse Gas(GHG) Emissions(Scope 1) 6.5.5 ● p. 71 ● . EU19. Stakeholders Participation in Decision Making Processes Related 6.8 6.8.3. ◐. p. 29, 42. ●. EN16 Energy Indirect Greenhouse Gas(GHG) Emissions(Scope 2) ● p. 71 ● to Energy Planning and Infrastructure Development EN17 Other Indirect Greenhouse Gas(GHG) Emissions(Scope 3) ● p. 71 ● Anti-corruption G4-DMA Management Approach ● p. 18 ● EN18 Greenhouse Gas(GHG) Emissions Intensity ● p. 71 ● . SO4. Communication and Training on Anti-corruption Policies and 6.6.1-6.6.2 6.6.3 6.6.6. ●. p. 18~19. ●. EN19 Reduction of Greenhouse Gas(GHG) Emissions ◐ p. 45, 71 ● Procedures EN21 NOx, SOx, and Other Significant Air Emissions 6.5.3 ● p. 41 ● SO5 Confirmed Incidents of Corruption and Actions Taken 6.6.1-6.6.2 6.6.3 ● p. 19 ● Effluents and Waste EN23 Total Weight of Waste by Type and Disposal Method 6.5.3 ● p. 43, 60 ● Public Policy. SO6. Total Value of Political Contributions by Country and . 6.6.1-6.6.2 6.6.4. ●. . Law observance ●. Recipient/Beneficiary Products and Services G4-DMA Management Approach ● p. 32 ● Anti-competitive G4-DMA Management Approach ● p. 18 ● . EN27. Extent of Impact Mitigation of Environmental Impacts of Products 6.5.3 6.5.4 6.5.5 6.7.5. ●. p. 38~39, 47. ●. Behavior. and Services SO7. Total Number of Legal Actions for Anti-competitive Behavior, . 6.6.1-6.6.2 6.6.5 6.6.7. ●. p. 19. ●. Anti-trust, and Monopoly Practices and Their Outcomes . EN28. Percentage of Products Sold and their Packaging Materials that are . N/A. . ●. Reclaimed by Category Supplier Assessment for SO10. Significant Actual and Potential Negative Impacts on Society in the 6.3.5 6.6.1-6.6.2 6.6.6 ●. p. 64, 66. ●. Impacts on Society Supply Chain and Actions taken 6.8.1-6.8.2 7.3.1 Overall. EN31. Total Environmental Protection Expenditures and Investments by 6.5.1-6.5.2. ●. p. 41, 71. ●. Type Disaster/Emergency . EU21. Contingency Planning Measures, Disaster/Emergency Management . ●. p. 17. ●. Planning & Response Plan and Training Programs, and Recovery/Restoration Plans Supplier Environmental EN33. Significant Actual and Potential Negative Environmental Impacts 6.3.5 6.6.6 7.3.1. ◐. p. 41. ●. Assessment in the Supply Chain and Actions taken Customer Health and . PR1. Percentage of Significant Product and Service Categories for Which 6.7.1 6.7.2 6.7.4 6.7.5 ◐. p. 65. ●. Safety Health and Safety Impacts are Assessed for Improvement 6.8.8 Social Product and Service . PR5. Result of Surveys Measuring Customer Satisfaction . 6.7.1-6.7.2 6.7.6. ●. p. 27. ●. Labeling Employment G4-DMA Management Approach p. 58 Customer Privacy. PR8. Total Number of Substantiated Complaints Regarding Breaches of 6.7.1-6.7.2 6.7.7. p. 27. ● ● ◐. ●. . EU14. Programs and Processes to Ensure the Availability of a Skilled 6.4.7. ●. p. 60. ●. Customer Privacy and Losses of Customer Data Workforce Access. EU23. Programs, Including Those in Partnership with Government, to 6.7.8 6.7.1-6.7.2 6.7.6. ●. p. 28. ●. . EU16. Policies and Requirements Regarding Health and Safety of . 6.3.3 6.3.5 6.4.6 6.6.6. ●. p. 64~65. ●. . . Improve or Maintain Access to Electricity and Customer Support . . . . Employees and Employees of Contractors and Subcontractors Services . LA1. Total Number & Rates of New Employee Hires & Employee . 6.4.1-6.4.2. ●. p. 72. ●. . EU26. Percentage of Population Unserved in Licensed Distribution or 6.7.8. ◐. p. 28. ●. Turnover by Age Group, Gender & Region Service Areas . LA3. Return to Work and Retention Rates after Parental Leave, . 6.4.4. ●. p. 72. ●. . EU30. Average Plant Availability Factor by Energy Source and by . . ●. p. 74. ●. by Gender Regulatory Regime . EU18. Percentage of Contractor and Subcontractor Employees that Have 6.3.3 6.3.5 6.4.6 6.6.6. ◐. p. 65. ●. Provision of Information. EU24. Practices to Address Language, Cultural, Low literacy and . 6.3.7 6.7.8. ●. p. 52. ●. Undergone Relevant Health and Safety Training . . Disability Related Barriers to Accessing and Safely Using Electricity . . . . Occupational G4-DMA Management Approach ● p. 58 ● and Customer Support Services Health and Safety. LA5. Percentage of Total Workforce Represented in Formal Joint 6.4.6. ◐. p. 64. ●. . . Management-worker Health and Safety Committees that Help . . . . Monitor and Advise on Occupational Health and Safety Programs . LA6. Type of Injury and Rates of Injury, Occupational Diseases, Lost 6.4.6 6.8.8. ●. p. 65, 72. ●. . . Days, and Absenteeism, and Total Number of Work-related . . . . . Fatalities, by Region and by Gender . LA7. Workers with High Incidence or High Risk of Diseases Related to . ◐. p. 65. ●. their Occupation . LA8. Health and Safety Topics Covered in Formal Agreements with 6.4.6. ◐. p. 64. ●. Trade Unions Training and Education G4-DMA Management Approach ● p. 58 ● . LA9. Average Hours of Training Per Year Per Employee by Gender, and 6.4.7. ●. p. 61. ●. by Employee Category . LA10. Programs for Skills Management and Lifelong Learning that . 6.4.7 6.8.5. ●. p. 61. ●. . . Support the Continued Employability of Employees and Assist . . . . them in Managing Career Endings . LA11. Percentage of Employees Receiving Regular Performance and . 6.4.7. ◐. p. 63. ●. . . Career Development Reviews, by Gender and by Employee . . . . . Category Diversity and Equal OpLA12. Composition of Governance Bodies and Breakdown of Employees 6.2.3 6.3.7 6.3.10 6.4.3. ●. p. 63, 72. ●. portunity. . Per Employee Category According to Gender, Age Group, Minority . . . . Group Membership, and Other Indicators of Diversity 84 2015 KEPCO Sustainability Report Company Overview Sustainable Management Five Core Issues Performance Data Appendices 85 Additional Information on the Report All Sustainability Reports(issued from 2005), including this one and the Annual Reports, are available for download on the KEPCO website. Additional Reporting Standards information about KEPCO’s management is available on the websites below. Expressions such as forecast and estimate are used to describe an analyThe Sustainability Report for 2015 is based on the sis of the future as of today. Therefore, for specific risks or uncertainties, please refer to Form 20-F. G4 Guideline of GRI(Global Reporting Initiative), ISO 26000, and the principles of the UN Global Compact. The reporting standards and definitions of financial Category Website Address data are in accordance with the IFRS(International Business Report Financial Supervisory Service’s DART(data analysis, retrieval and transfer system) / company overview dart.fss.or.kr Financial Reporting Standards). Form 20-F U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission www.sec.gov Annual Report KEPCO website / Investor Relations / Financial Information www.kepco.co.kr Reporting Period Social contribution KEPCO website / Sustainability www.kepco.co.kr This report contains quantitative performance https://twitter.com/iamkepco https://www.facebook.com/iamkepco http://blog.kepco.co.kr https://story.kakao.com/ch/kepco data from January 1 to December 31, 2014, it also includes some activities and achievements of great https://instagram.com/iamkepco importance that were performed by the first half of 2015. There were significant changes in the reporting period for the Sustainability Report for 2015. Reporting Scope This report targets KEPCO’s performance for sustainable management. In regard to eco-friendliness in the supply chain(expenses for environmental investment, pollutants in air quality and water quality), data on six GENCOs whose shares are 100% owned by KEPCO(Korea Hydro & Nuclear Power, Korea South-East Power, Korea Midland Power, Korea Western Power, Korea Southern Power, and Korea East-West Power) was reported. Staff Members for Making the Report Report Verification Disclosed information was included after being writOverall Supervision of Production Research & Review Sustainable Management ten by relevant departments and the facts were veri· Director of Corporate Planning Department. · Strategy Planning Team of Corporate Planning · Corporate Planning Department. fied. To secure credibility in the reporting content, Hyeon Sang-gwon Department. Park Jae-gun the report was verified by Korea Productivity Center, · Strategy Planning Team of Corporate Planning Kim Tae-geun, Jeong Yeong-jin, Ju Yun-jeong,. · Safety Management Department. Kim Do-hyeong, Shin Myeong-seop an independent assessment institution. Assessment Department . Kim Wang-chun Kim Yu-sang, Kim Jung-hyun · Management Improvement Department. standards are included in the assessment report. Choi Se-yeong · Audit Department. Song Chang-yeong Tel +82-61-345-3535 Sharing Five Major Issues Website www.kepco.co.kr E-mail strategy@kepco.co.kr 1. R  especting. 2. Adding Technology 3. Preserving. 4. J  oining Humanity 5. Caring People Address Strategy Planning Team, Corporate Customers Environment Planning Department, 55, Jeonryeok-ro. · Sales Department . ·O  verseas Business Development · Quality Management Department. · Mutual Cooperation Department. · Human Resources Management (Bitgaram-dong 120), Naju, Gwon In-cheol, Won Hyeon-jeong Department . Park Jin-hong Lee Gyu-taek, Ahn Hui-beom,. Department. · Distribution Operation Department. Kim Song-hwan · Transmission and Transformation Ahn Hyung-wook Choi Chang-min, Shin Deok-cheon,. Jeollanam-do(Postal code : 520-350) Kim Hui-seok · Overseas Business Operation. Construction Department. · Electricity Market Department. Park Jeong-hui, Park Se-wun · Transmission and Transformation Department . Lim Seong-min Kim Bo-yeon · Labor Affairs Department. Operation Department. Kim Hyeon-do ·M  aterials Department. Choi Jeong-gyu Kim Gyeong-in · Overseas Nuclear Plant Kim Yeong-su · Safety Management Department. · Electricity Grid Planning Department. Development Department. · Technology Planning Department. Kim Wu-yong Lim Yeong-seong Lee Seung-hui Choi Wi-gyeong, Lee Ji-suk · Work Support Department. This report was printed on FSC-certified eco-friendly · Electricity Supply and Demand · Technology Planning Department. · E  lectricity Supply and Demand Choi Yeong-hyeon Kim Jae-yong paper using soy-based ink. Department . Department . Kim Hyeong-seop · SG & New Business Department. Jang Seong-eun, Park Ho-ik Jeon Seong-nam ·A  sset Management Department. Kim Seong-man Forbes 2000 4th in global utility 1st in Asian utility Design Reddot Branding Ltd.
