Annual and Sustainability Report 2014 We have the strength. We know the Nordics. We deliver. Contents 1 This is PostNord Reporting according to GRI G4 2 PostNord in brief PostNord is reporting on its sustainability work for 2014 according to the Global Reporting Initiative’s 4 President and Group CEO statement (GRI) G4 Guidelines. The GRI Index on page 42–43 6 Market contains an overview of the aspects and indicators 8 Strategy that form part of PostNord’s sustainability reporting. It also contains information on the scope and bound14 Our offering aries of the reporting. The sustainability report for 17 Our operations the 2013 financial year was published in March 2014. 17 PostNord Sweden It was drawn up according to the GRI Guidelines, Version 3.0, Application Level C+. 20 PostNord Denmark 22 PostNord Norway/Finland 24 Financial development The auditing of the report The Board of Directors and the President & Group 27 PostNord’s sustainability work CEO of PostNord AB (publ.), corporate identity number 556771-2640, hereby submit the Annual 27 Stakeholder dialogue and Sustainability Report for the 2014 financial year. 28 Materiality assessment The Board of Directors’ report comprises pages 6–11, 30 Environment pages 24–26, the section on operations that must be reported to the authorities on page 31, and pages 33 Employees 45–55 and has been audited as stated in the Audi36 Society tor’s Report on page 95. The Sustainability Report 38 Suppliers comprises pages 27–44 and has been reviewed ­according to the Assurance Report on page 44. 39 Compliance 40 Measurement and calculation methods 42 GRI Index Contact details for PostNord’s Group office PostNord AB 44 Assurance Report SE-105 00 Stockholm, Sweden Visitors’ address: Terminalvägen 24, Solna 45 Corporate Governance Report Tel +46 10 436 00 00 50 Board of Directors 52 Group Executive Team www.postnord.com 54 Risk Financial reports Contacts Per Mossberg, Chief Communications Officer 57 Consolidated financial statements Tel +46 10 436 39 15 61 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 89 Parent Company financial statements Gunilla Berg, CFO Tel +46 10 436 28 10 91 Notes to Parent Company financial statements Susanne Andersson, Head of Investor Relations 94 The Board of Directors’ and President & Group CEO’s certification Tel +46 10 436 20 86 95 Auditor’s Report 96 Five-year overview Kristina Haraldsson, Head of Sustainability Tel +46 10 436 26 42 Every care has been taken in the translation of this Annual and Sustainability Report. In the event of discrepancies, the Swedish original will supersede the English translation. This is PostNord PostNord is the leading supplier of communication and logistics solutions to, from and within the Nordic region. We ensure postal service to households and businesses in Sweden and Denmark. 5.3 billion letters and other mail items were delivered by PostNord in 2014. With our expertise and strong distribution 120 network, we develop options for tomorrow’s communication, e-commerce, distribution and logistics in the Nordic region. In 2014, PostNord had 38,000 employees million* parcels reached their intended and sales of SEK 40 billion. PostNord is 40% recipients on time. owned by the Danish State and 60% by the 5,800 Swedish State. Votes are allocated 50/50 between the shareholders. The parent company, PostNord AB, is a Swedish public limited company headquartered in Solna, Sweden. distribution points in the Nordic countries offer reliable service and convenient ­opening hours. PostNord Norway Logistics operations PostNord Finland External net sales Logistics operations (PostNord Norway/Finland): SEK 4,374m External net sales Number of parcels: 9.6 million (PostNord Norway/Finland): SEK 4,374m Number of distribution points: Number of parcels: 5.9 million approximately 1,400 Number of distribution points: approximately 1,100 PostNord Denmark PostNord Sweden Mail and logistics operations Mail and logistics operations External net sales: SEK 9,679m External net sales: SEK 21,987m Number of mail items: 545 million Number of mail items: 1,983 million Number of parcels: 42 million Number of parcels: 80 million Number of distribution points: Number of distribution points: approximately 1,400 approximately 1, 900 PostNord Strålfors Direct Link Information logistics Global distribution of marketing communiExternal net sales: SEK 2,588m cations and lightweight goods, mainly for Operations in Sweden, Denmark, e-retailers. Operations in the United States, ­Finland, Norway, Poland, the United United Kingdom, Germany, Singapore, Kingdom and France. Hong Kong and Australia. * Eliminated for intra-Group volumes between countries. PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2014 1 PostNord in brief Our starting point is to strengthen our customer’s business Our vision is for PostNord to deliver world-class s­ olutions for tomorrow’s communication, communications and logistics solutions to satis­e-commerce, distribution and logistics. fied customers. The driving force behind everyWe are proud of being entrusted with the thing we do is to strengthen our customers’ responsibility for the postal service in Denmark ­business and customer relations. We do this by and Sweden. We thereby contribute to a key improving the recipients’ experience. ­service for citizens and institutions. Our long PostNord is the leading communications and experience as a postal company has given us logistics player in the Nordic countries, and we outstanding logistics expertise, enabling senders are to be the first choice for both customers and and recipients to trust that we will deliver as recipients throughout the Nordics. promised. Our ambition is to always be accessiWith 25 million inhabitants and nearly two ble and give both corporate customers and million companies within a large geographic ­consumers the best service possible. area, the Nordic market involves major logistics PostNord is our joint brand, and combined challenges. We know the Nordic region – it’s our with the well-known national postal symbols, domestic market. With the knowledge of our we offer postal and communications services 38,000 employees and a unique distribution in Sweden and Denmark. Solutions for logistics ­network, we help strengthen our customers’ and relation-building communications are business and customer relations every day. ­marketed under the PostNord brand. Together with them, we also develop new Our mission Our vision PostNord connects people and businesses PostNord delivers world-class communication reliably, efficiently and on time. and logistics solutions to satisfied c­ ustomers. Our values RELIABLE ACCESSIBLE PostNord keeps its promises PostNord is always close to and delivers mail everyits customers, listens to their where securely, on time views and helps them meet and to the right place. their challenges. BUSINESS PARTNER SUSTAINABLE PostNord is a professional PostNord creates value for business partner to its its customers and owners, ­customers, helping them is a socially responsible meet their communication ­company and works and logistics challenges. actively to reduce its ­environmental impact. 2 PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2014 PostNord in brief External net sales per country Overview1) SEKm, unless otherwise specified 2014 2013 PostNord Sweden, 55% Net sales 39,950 39,533 PostNord Denmark, 24% Operating income (EBITDA) 2,198 2,310 PostNord Norway/Finland, 11% Operating margin (EBITDA), % 5.4 5.8 PostNord Strålfors, 7% Adjusted operating income, (EBIT) 861 826 Other countries, 3% Adjusted operating margin, % 2.2 2.1 Operating income (EBIT) 351 662 Operating margin (EBIT), % 0.9 1.7 Net income 176 306 Cash flows from operating activities 670 1,657 Net sales per business area Net debt 3,672 1,624 Net debt ratio (net debt/equity), % 46 18 Return on capital employed (ROCE), % 3.1 6.0 Mail & Communication, 54% Average number of employees 37,976 39,305 Logistics, 39% Delivery quality, mail, Sweden, % 93.5 94.9 Strålfors, 7% Delivery quality, mail, Denmark, % 94.8 93.2 CO2 emissions, thousands of tonnes 401 400 Sick leave, % 5.2 5.0 Share of female managers, % 29 29 1) For definitions of financial key ratios, see Note 33 on page 88. For measurement and calculation methods for non-financial key ratios, see pages 40–41. Net sales Operating income and operating margin (EBIT) SEKm SEKm % 50,000 2,000 6 40,000 5 1,500 4 30,000 1,000 3 20,000 2 500 10,000 1 0 0 0 10 11 12 13 14 10 11 12 13 14 Operating income Operating margin Average number of employees Average number of employees per country 50,000 Sweden, 61% 40,000 Denmark, 32% 30,000 Finland, 1% Norway, 4% 20,000 Rest of the world, 2% 10,000 0 10 11 12 13 14 Total mail and parcel volumes CO2 emissions Millions of mail items Millions of parcels1) Thousands of metric tonnes 4,000 120 500 400 3,000 90 300 2,000 60 200 1,000 30 100 0 0 0 10 11 12 13 14 10 11 12 13 14 Total mail volumes, Denmark Total mail volumes, Sweden Total parcel volumes 1) Eliminated for intra-Group volumes between countries. PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2014 3 President and Group CEO statement Distinct strategy for a complete Nordic end-to-end offering The rapid development in the communications and logistics services market intensifies our work to adapt and develop our operations. We are currently building a stable Nordic platform on which we will meet the volume challenge in the mail business and the competition in the logistics ­market by delivering the most competitive logistics and communications offer in the Nordic region. 2014 was an eventful year for PostNord. At the start of the To adapt the business to declining mail volumes and year we decided on and implemented a new integrated ensure long-term competitiveness and improved earnorganization. This gives us the right conditions with which ings, restructuring programs were initiated, including to meet our customers’ needs with our complete Nordic ­capital efficiency programs, such as divesting properties, end-to-end offering of mail and logistics solutions. The which creates greater financial flexibility. Group acts in a unified, clear way with PostNord as its joint Our restructuring work has progressed rapidly to brand. In our new country organization, the mail and establish a more efficient, clearer and more customer-­ logistics operations in our terminals can be combined oriented PostNord. Extensive efficiency programs were into a more integrated production model. The Rosersberg made in 2014 that when fully implemented they entail terminal outside Stockholm was commissioned during ­sizable staff reductions in administrative and support the year; one of the most modern and environmentally functions compared to the level in 2013. The employee efficient mail terminals in the world. A decision was made index and leadership index decreased during the year, at the end of the year to evaluate possible divestment of partly due to the major restructuring work. The lower the Strålfors operation. result is not satisfactory and we are now further rein­ forcing actions to increase commitment and improve Strong e-commerce growth leadership during the extensive change process that E-commerce is continuing to grow very robustly and the Company is undergoing. accounted for sales of about SEK 140 billion in the Nordic The market development trends, with substantial region in 2014. The most popular online purchases are structural transformation, will prevail in the industry, clothes, books, toys and home electronics. Deliveries tainecessitating continuous restructuring programs in lored to customers’ requirements make it convenient for order to maintain competitiveness and create long-term consumers to shop online, where it is easy to compare financial value. prices. From its leading position our logistics operations continue to grow, despite tough market competition. In The Group’s priorities clarified in the strategy 2014 parcel volumes increased by 3% for B2B-related With our combined expertise and experience in the items and by 15% for B2C-related items. ­Nordic market we have the ability and capacity to perform large-scale, complicated communications and logisDigitization continues to pose a challenge tics assignments. Our ambition is that our customers will The volume trend in the mail business continued to want to grow with us and utilize our complete portfolio decline due to digitization. Mail volumes decreased by a of communications and logistics products and services. total of 5% during the year, of which 4% in Sweden and Together we develop new, sustainable solutions that 12% in Denmark. Since 2000 a total of about 40% of physboost our customers’ competitiveness and contribute ical mail volumes have been transferred to digital forms of to our sustainable profitability. communication. However, we take a positive view of the Our strategy is based on a number of priorities opportunities available in marketing communication, designed to strengthen the competitiveness of the where we offer customers end-to-end solutions in both ­business in relation to the market changes and customphysical and digital channels. ers’ increasing demands for service. The strategy aims We are proud of being entrusted with the responsibilto create the conditions for attaining the financial targets ity for postal services in Denmark and Sweden, and the within 3–5 years set by our owners. The targets are a mail operation will remain a central part of our core busireturn on capital employed (ROCE) of 10.5% and a net ness. Our long experience as a postal company has given debt ratio of 10–50%. The outcomes for 2014 were 3.1% us outstanding logistics expertise, enabling senders and and 46%, respectively. Our ambitious environmental recipients to always trust that we will deliver as promised. ­target is to reduce carbon dioxide emissions by 40% from the level in 2009 by 2020. So far we have reduced Intensive restructuring work them by 16.6% by making the logistics chain more effiPostNord’s net sales rose by 1% in 2014, reaching cient, investing in more fuel-efficient vehicles, increasing SEK 39,950m. The reported operating income reached the number of electric vehicles and using a greater SEK 351m and the operating margin was 0.9%. Adjusted ­proportion of biofuels in diesel. for items affecting comparability, operating income Our ambition is to always be accessible and give both reached SEK 861m and the operating margin was 2.2%. corporate customers and consumers the best service 4 PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2014 President and Group CEO statement ­ ossible with high quality. We are therefore continuously p continuously. We are now experiencing a paradigm shift developing our operations according to our established as adaptation to lower mail volumes and increased strategy to attain all of our high-reached targets. In addition e-commerce is taking place throughout the industry. to our own efforts, it is also important that the postal-­ The transition is a prerequisite for us to be a logistics and specific regulations be adapted to consumers’ changed communications company that is modern, competitive demand and the current market conditions. We welcomed and attractive to employees in the future. the new postal legislation in Denmark that was adopted at The past year was characterized by substantial the start of 2014. In Sweden we are conducting dialogue restructuring work. I would like to express my sincere with decision makers to adapt the postal regulations to gratitude to all employees for the committed and profesthe altered market conditions as soon as possible. This is sional way in which they have contributed to this. I would necessary to enable efficient postal services to be mainalso like to thank all our customers and partners for fruittained in the long term on reasonable economic terms ful collaborations and I look forward to further developing despite ongoing significant declines in mail volumes and our business together to create added value for our also to enable us to attain our environmental target. ­customers, owners and other stakeholders. The Board of Directors and management focus strongly to further strenghten PostNord’s sustainability work, which is one of the priority areas in the Group’s Solna, February 2015 strategy. We support and run our operations in accordance with the corporate responsibility principles of the UN Global Compact and OECD guidelines for ­multinational enterprises. A PostNord that delivers In 2014 we worked on building a stronger and more ­integrated PostNord according to the motto “One team – one goal – one direction”. We are now working together Håkan Ericsson to operate under a joint brand, towards uniform goals President and Group CEO and in the same direction, which creates greater clarity about what PostNord stands for. The Group has undergone constant change as both technology and demand from consumers have changed PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2014 5 Market Market opportunities and challenges Trade is growing and assuming new forms. This increases the need for efficient logistics and ­communications solutions in PostNord’s markets. To respond to changes in demand, PostNord is adapting its operations to lead the development of communications and logistics services and to ensure continued high customer benefit. A growing logistics market known as third-party logistics (TPL). This means that market Globalization, population growth and technological developplayers must constantly review and adapt their offer to correment are driving trade from a global perspective. In turn this spond to customers’ increasing requirements. creates rising demand for transportation and logistics solutions. The Nordic logistics market that is relevant to PostNord The development of the logistics market in the Nordic region equates to about SEK 150–190 billion, which includes everything has been relatively stable with a slight increase. Demand for parfrom home deliveries of parcels to the shipping of part and full cel services, the shipping of part and full loads and third-party loads and advanced logistics services such as TPL. PostNord logistics (TPL) has grown, while the trend for demand in Air & operates in all the Nordic countries and Germany, and via its Ocean has been weaker. The market is characterized by strong subsidiary Direct Link it also runs international operations in the competition and a high degree of consolidation. The logistics form of distribution solutions for lightweight goods and it is part players focus on optimization and improving the efficiency of of the DPD network for global logistics solutions. The Nordic their business. Demand for Nordic end-to-end solutions is growlogistics market is characterized by consolidation, intense ing. Increasing numbers of companies are also opting to out­competition and a focus on costs, and its largest logistics source all or parts of their warehousing and l­ogistics externally, ­players are Bring, DB Schenker, DHL, DSV, Posti and PostNord. Growing e-commerce on customers’ terms countries. Above all, sites in the United Kingdom, GerThe Nordic market for e-commerce amounted to about many and the United States attract Nordic consumers. SEK 140 billion in 2014. The e-commerce market in the One of the most important competitive factors is the Nordic region is expected to expand by more than 10% logistics involved in e-commerce; the method, location, time per year in the next few years. Given that e-commerce and and price of goods delivery have become increasingly accounts for roughly 6% of total trade in the Nordics, important for consumers at the time of purchase. there is a great potential. E-commerce sales in Sweden 2003–2014 The basic driving forces of e-commerce are simplicity and accessibility for consumers. One strong trend is the SEK bn significance of omni-channel concepts, which are inte50 grated underlying system solutions that give the same customer experience irrespective of channel and enable 40 physical shops and digital channels to integrate with each other. This meets increased consumer demands for being 30 able to shop when and where it suits them best. This may 20 sometimes be at home on the computer with home delivery of their purchases, but the consumers might make 10 their next purchase of a similar product directly in a shop. The greater part of e-commerce purchases are still 0 made from domestic companies, but it is increasingly 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 common for consumers to look for products in other Source: The 2014 e-barometer (a survey of the development of the Swedish e-commerce sector). Service logistics – new opportunity An additional area consists of the market for returning Service logistics is the common name for services for home old and used products that is predicted to grow through deliveries of items such as food and medication. Demand more regulation and more stringent legislation about for all these services is expected to rise in coming years. For product responsibility and sustainability requirements. example, the market for home deliveries of food and grocerIn this area there are opportunities for new types of ies today currently accounts for about 1% of the total grocer­services for PostNord. ies market in Sweden and Denmark, but their proportion of the total market is expected to increase in the next few years. Service logistics also includes areas such as welfare distribution, which comprises equipment for telemedicine. The market for welfare distribution is expected to grow robustly in the Nordic countries in coming years, driven by demographic change with a higher proportion of older people, savings requirements in the public sector and new technological opportunities. 6 PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2014 Market Declining volume trend is a common Less mail is being sent. Mail volumes declined by about postal challenge 35% in Sweden and more than 60% in Denmark between The European postal market has been deregulated in 2000 and 2014. This is nearly entirely a result of the tran­several stages and is now fully deregulated throughout sition to digital alternatives. In recent years mail volumes the EU. However, there is no joint market yet, and instead have fallen substantially in Denmark in particular. This is there are a number of national markets for postal sera consequence of several coordinated initiatives, such as vices. PostNord provides the universal postal service legislation about digital communications between the in Denmark and Sweden. The regulations for running a public sector and the business sector as well as consumpostal service differ between countries, and thus also ers. In 2014 mail volumes in Denmark declined by 12% between Denmark and Sweden The differences include compared to the preceding year. which postal services are encompassed in the universal Mail volumes have also fallen considerably in Sweden postal service and are thereby subject to regulation and in recent years. Sweden has not yet taken initiatives that monitoring, and which requirements are placed on are as far-reaching as the legislation introduced in Den­delivery times and quality levels. mark for increased digital communication. Mail volumes in Sweden in 2014 declined by 4% compared to 2013. The decline in mail volumes is expected to continue. Mail volume trends (per capita) 0% to –3% Nevertheless, a basic need for physical communications will prevail. This market change is a challenge for all postal –3 to –6% companies. In some countries political decisions have –6% to –9% been made to modernize the regulatory conditions for 0% to –3% postal companies to run competitive and financially susMore–3than to –6%–8% tainable operations while they meet the changed needs –6% to –9% of consumers and companies for postal services. The More than –8% United Kingdom is one example, which modernized the regulations before the Royal Mail floated on the stock exchange in 2013. Belgium has also amended its regulatory framework for running postal services to create better conditions for the Belgian postal operator, bpost, which also floated in 2013. Although many of the market conditions are still national, the challenges are the same: adaptation to lower mail volumes, cost cuts (driven by a high proportion of personnel expenses in the industry) and diversification of the business. The postal business will continue to be a core operation, and PostNord is constantly working on developing its product range and adapting its operations and infrastructure throughout the value chain – from ­collection and sorting to distribution. PostNord conducts continual dialogue with the Swedish and Danish States about the market situation and the challenges that substantial drops in volume combined with requirements such as overnight delivery implies for PostNord. The ­Danish Parliament, the Folketing, decided to relax postal regulations to a certain extent, and this decision came into force in 2014. It is crucial that the Swedish regulations Mail volumes are declining throughout Europe. The reduction has be adapted as soon as possible to the prevailing condioccurred most rapidly in Denmark, the United Kingdom, the Netherlands, Italy, Spain and Portugal. tions in order to ensure the continued provision of Source: UBS European Postal Sector, September 15, 2014. ­efficient postal services. PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2014 7 Strategy Strategy for building, repositioning and advancing PostNord PostNord’s strategy is based on continuously strengthening the competitiveness of the business in ­relation to the changes taking place in the market and customers’ increasing demands for services. The strategy has been further developed in order to reposition the business within strategic markets, create the right internal conditions and put together a cutting-edge Nordic end-to-end offer. Posten AB and Post Danmark A/S merged in 2009, aimthe terms of the merger, create financial value, be an ing to secure a position as the leading player in the Nordic attractive investment and become a more complete communications and logistics market and to boost the group. The Group strategy was gradually further deve­ conditions for efficient postal services in Sweden and loped in 2014 to create the right conditions for PostNord Denmark. The Group strategy that applies until 2015 was to be the leading supplier of logistics and communicadecided on in 2011. The objective is for PostNord to satisfy tions services in a market situation that remains New organization Strategy: and developed strategy Build, reposition and advance 2014 2015 2016 Establish a harmonized and customer-oriented Nordic product portfolio ADVANCE Create a goal-oriented performance culture Sustainability in everything we do Gain the position of the leading Nordic e-commerce player REPOSITION Secure profitable growth of prioritized logistics segments Secure a competitive mail and communication offer – now and for the future Develop a common business model within service logistics Reduce and adapt the cost base BUILD Secure stable and efficient IT operation Implement an integrated production model 8 PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2014 c­ hallenging. With the right conditions and a delivery-­ oriented culture, PostNord will be repositioned and develop a harmonized offer in the Nordic region. The strategy is based on 10 corporate priorities. Improve the Group’s financial results and create value for PostNord’s various stakeholders Leading Nordic supplier of logistics and communications services 2017 2018 2019 2020 To speed up the way in which we meet customer needs for easily accessible and more cost-effective deliveries, PostNord will harmonize and simplify its product portfolio of Nordic logistics and communications solutions. PostNord is investing broadly in boosting its corporate culture based on the Group’s values. This includes focusing more on own r­ esponsibility and attaining the joint goals in time. PostNord will integrate sustainability aspects into everything that is done to position the Group as one that runs sustainable operations, a responsible business that benefits customers, employees, owners and society. PostNord will take the position as the leading e-commerce player in the Nordic region. E-commerce creates further opportunities for growth, and PostNord is focusing on creating joint concepts for the entire Nordic region. PostNord’s strength lies in understanding and meeting the needs and requests of both recipients and senders. PostNord will continue to establish itself as the leading logistics player in the Nordic region with a joint Nordic offer and stronger services within p ­ rioritized segments, including cross-border trade. PostNord will develop a competitive mail and communications offer for the future, based on traditional mail operations, that can be combined with digital communications solutions. PostNord will develop a common business model for service logistics and develop group-wide offers that harness the existing distribution n­ etwork for delivering items such as food and medication. The cost base must be adapted to the falling mail volumes and the new business model with the e-commerce and logistics growth areas. Additional savings are required, such as cutting external costs and reducing administration in order to improve earning capacity and increase financial value. A stable and efficient IT platform is a prerequisite for customers being able to receive their items on time with high delivery quality. This is also a prerequisite for rapidly getting new products to the market. The Group’s challenge comprises securing the stable operation of established systems while also introducing new, group-wide IT solutions. Irrespective of whether handling mail or logistics, PostNord will be able to use the same terminals and vehicles for both mail and parcels in the future. Read more on page 11. PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2014 9 Strategy One Group – one brand PostNord’s customers are increasingly requesting Nordic end-to-end solutions, which is why PostNord is establishing a clear, uniform Nordic profile. Offers in logistics, distribution, e-commerce and communications will be marketed under a common brand. In 2014 the PostNord brand was integrated with existing brands to emphasize the connection between offers and markets. PostNord’s new brand structure is gradually being implemented and it indicates that the Group is taking the next step in its development from a traditional postal company towards a Nordic logistics and communications company that is passionate about delivering everything from advanced logistics solutions, to a letter for a neighbor or a parcel from the other side of the globe. Focus on e-commerce E-commerce is one of the Group’s strategic priorities. responsible for business and service development specifiE-commerce services will therefore be one of the Group’s cally related to e-commerce; this also includes corporate most important development areas in coming years. customers with omni-channel offers as a strategy. The ­PostNord already has a unique structure and reach in the ­strategic focus is on both senders and recipients of e-­comregion and a leading position as the partner of the majority merce mail items with the aim of helping to develop the of e-retailers in the Nordic countries. To further reinforce the market and ensure a positive shopping experience for Group’s position as the leading e-commerce player in the those who choose to make purchases online. Nordics, a special unit was set up in the Group in 2014 to be PostNord’s offer to corporate customers is based on in-depth understanding of customers, broad logistics expertise in the retail trade and in omni-channel concepts and a high level of accessibility with the largest network of distribution points in the Nordics and, not least, daily deliveries to all mailboxes in Sweden and Denmark. PostNord helps customers grow their e-commerce business by providing knowledge on how to improve customer profitability and secure e-commerce growth by combining solutions for logistics and customer communication. PostNord’s offer will ensure a smoother purchasing experience and a flexible distribution network that enables e-commerce customers to shop online on their own terms. 10 PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2014 Strategy Greater flexibility through integrated production model In 2014 PostNord developed a production model that aims in 2020 for the entire Group and it comprises major to increase flexibility in the distribution chain for both cuschanges to, above all, the terminal structure and distributomers and PostNord. In brief, this means integrating the tion chain in the Nordic countries. The integrated producdistribution chain for the mail and logistics operations, tion model is expected to lead to synergies such as making which are at present largely separate in terms of collection, better use of vehicles and premises at a lower cost and with sorting, transportation and distribution. less environmental impact. Space and equipment in the The work started in 2014, primarily with changes to the “last mile” are used several times a day. Additional synergies operations in Denmark and Sweden because these are the in the form of a joint vehicle fleet, coordination and markets in which PostNord runs both its mail and logistics increased efficiency in IT systems, materials and machinery businesses. The whole project is scheduled to be complete for large parts of the Group will cut costs. Management of mail, parcels and pallets is In the major urban areas, distribution The hubs will be supplemented by merged in multi-terminals or campus areas. hubs will be established. Processing of distribution depots so that mail Synergies arise here by coordinating the all product categories will be brought carriers can be based closer to the operations and thereby obtaining more efficient together there, meaning that several recipients. No sorting will take place at use of production equipment and enabling more products can be distributed to the the depots, just loading and relatively efficient joint transportation between terminals. customer at the same time. straight-forward preparation. Mail Distribution Distribution Parcels Multiterminal hub depot © Tomas Öhrling 2014 Pallets and mixed cargo groupage Part and full loads Households and Corporate customer Multiterminal companies Partner outlets and self-service parcel machines Companies Transportation: Machinery and materials: Mail and parcels will to an ever-greater Today, PostNord uses different machinery extent be collected on the same route. This and equipment in different countries. In means, for example, that a van collects parthe future, requirements will be specified cels and large mail items from the partner Common vehicle fleet: and procurement conducted centrally. outlet and empties the mailboxes at the PostNord will have a joint, standardized This will also apply to materials handling same time. It is the same for customers – vehicle fleet in the Nordics to create cost and load carriers – everything from boxes one van collects pallets, parcels and mail. benefits and economies of scale. The to containers will be standardized. This will When parcels, pallets and mail are proGroup will also have joint processes for make it easier and more efficient to handle cessed at multi-terminals, it also will also purchasing, operating and retiring vehigoods across national borders. be simpler to transport them in the same cles, as well as a common IT system for goods flow, by both road and rail. vehicle management. PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2014 11 Strategy – targets and target fulfillment PostNord’s business is run on the basis of financial and non-financial targets. Financial targets for profitability, capital structure and dividends were established in 2014. These are long-term targets and will be evaluated over a period of 3–5 years. Results Financial targets 2014 (2013) Comment History Profitability Return on capital employed 3.1 (6.0)% The profitability target was not attained in 2014. (ROCE) 10.5% ­PostNord conducted intensive restructuring work in 2014 and implemented a Group strategy with Net debt ratio, % Return, % 10 ­priorities to create the conditions for achieving 50 10 40 8 ­established targets. Read more on pages 24–25. 30 6 20 4 Capital structure 10 2 Net debt ratio 10–50% 46 (18)% The result for the net debt/equity ratio is within 0 0 13 14 13 14 the ­target interval. Read more on pages 25. Net debt ratio Return on capital employed Dividend 40–60% of net income 0 (SEK In view of the Company’s results for 2014 and its (standard value 50%) 129m, 40%) ­on­going restructuring needs, the Board of Directors proposes to the 2015 AGM that no dividend be paid. Results Non-financial targets 2014 (2013) Comment History Customer Improve the customer value 70 (71) The overall result decreased slightly as a result 80 index (CVI) of a decline in the various operations, except in 60 PostNord Denmark, where the CVI index rose to 72. 40 38 (37) The improvement concerning the overall result 20 Improve the corporate image (regarding TRIM) for Sweden and Denmark is attribut0 10 11 12 13 14 index (TRIM) able to the improved reputation of PostNord in Sweden. CVI index TRIM index Delivery quality % Group, Mail: 95.0% 93.7 (94.6)% PostNord exceeds the Danish and Swedish States’ 100 quality requirements for mail. PostNord’s overall Group 75 Parcels, Denmark: 97.5% 98.0 (97.4)% target is higher and was not attained. Denmark has 50 Parcels, Sweden: 97.5% 96.9 (97.0)% experienced a positive trend for the quality of mail and 25 Parcels, Norway: 98% 96.4 (96.4)% it exceeded its target for parcels. The result for Sweden 0 Parcels, Finland: 96.5% 92.2 (94.4)% was adversely affected by problems at certain termi10 11 12 13 14 Overnight delivery, 1st class mail, Sweden nals and with deliveries in the metropolitan regions. Overnight delivery, 1st class mail, Denmark Read more on pages 18 and 21. Environment Reduce carbon dioxide 2009–2014: The reduction since 2009 has taken place thanks to Thousands of metric tonnes 500 ­emissions by 40% by 2020 –16.6% improved efficiency in the transportation chain, invest400 from the level in 2009 ments in more fuel-efficient vehicles, a higher propor300 tion of electric vehicles, a greater proportion of biofuels 200 100 in diesel and the purchasing of fossil-free electricity. 0 The increase in 2014 mainly came about because the 09 10 11 12 13 14 emission factor used when calculating emissions from Carbon dioxide emissions non-ecolabeled electricity has risen substantially. Read more on pages 30–32. Employees Improve the employee index MIX 61 (64) The results for the areas of general satisfaction, health 80 (MIX) and leadership index LIX 63 (66) and ­personal commitment fell during the year, but 60 (LIX) many employees are positive about the new organiza40 tion and their local work situation, colleagues and 20 immediate manager. Requisite restructuring programs 0 11 12 13 14 were introduced during the year, which affected the MIX entire business. Read more on pages 33–35. LIX 40% female managers 29 (29)% Despite various actions, the result is the same as % 30 by 2015 in the preceding year. Read more on pages 33–35. 20 10 0 10 11 12 13 14 Women in managerial positions Reduce sick leave levels 5.2 (5.0)% The most common reasons for long-term sick leave in % 6 the Group are illnesses and pain related to the muscu4 loskeletal system. Total sick leave in the Group has amounted to about 5% for several years. In 2014 sick 2 leave totaled 5.2%. The increase is partly due to sick 0 leave in Sweden rising from 5.1% to 5.4%. Read more on 10 11 12 13 14 Sick leave pages 33–35. 12 PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2014 Mekonomen “Logistics with a turbo effect” Mekonomen’s mission is to offer both vehicle servicing Every day, 300–400 pallets and the same number of and a wide range of related products. One prerequisite ­parcels are sent from the company’s central warehouse for success is rapid deliveries of products and spare in Strängnäs to its shops and workshops. In addition, parts – wherever in the Nordic countries the customer a warehouse in Helsinki serves the Finnish market. is located. A regional warehouse is located in Luleå, Sweden, to “The advantage of our logistics is that we reach all cater for customers in the far north. This places requireour shops and workshops throughout the Nordic region ments on Mekonomen’s business partner. overnight, even if they are north of the Arctic Circle and “The fact that PostNord works in the same way very remote. This is possible thanks to the Nordic end-tothroughout the Nordic region presents major advanend solution we have created together with PostNord,” tages to us. It enables us to improve efficiency and work says Anders Molander, President of Mekonomen Grossist similarly in all these markets. It gives us a real turbo (Wholesale) . effect.” Our offering PostNord’s end-to-end approach – reliable, efficient and on time Deliveries are now less about moving items from A to B and instead more about everything in between. PostNord’s business spans the entire commercial chain – from business generation via ­logistics, warehousing, processing, distribution and delivery, to campaign follow-up. PostNord’s ­customer promise is clear: Both consumers and corporate customers must be able to reach their ­recipients reliably, efficiently and on time. Improve our customers’ profitability Integrated communications to the right target group, in the right ­channel and at the right time. Target group analysis Campaign Physical follow-up direct mail Customer communication drives business... Invoice Digital distribution Logistics marketing solutions enable... Invoice Warehousing/ creating pick and p­ ack Outbound ­l­ogistics Secure growth for Efficient payment flows our customers for our customers Efficient goods flows and Reliable and efficient less tied up capital by business communications focusing on customer ­systems secure our value in all stages of the customers’ cash flows. process. 14 PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2014 Our offering Communications and logistics are our specialc­ ommunications and increase its effect. Based ties. We make our customers’ everyday life easier on insight into our customers, we can help comso that they can devote all their time to their core panies create results in both physical and digital business. channels. PostNord knows how to reach recipiPostNord offers logistics solutions throughents at the right time, in the right channel, in the out the chain, from warehousing including right place and at the right price. We can help inward deliveries to deliveries to, from and within companies find new customers and retain their the Nordic region. With about 5,800 distribution existing ones. points, 120 terminals and a network of internaPostNord has the right conditions to be the tional partners, we cater for customers’ logistics obvious partner for Nordic e-retailers, but also needs, to any destination. We also offer customthe first choice for recipients of items purchased ized solutions for all parts of the customer’s online. Through PostNord it is also easy for conordering and delivery chains. With PostNord, you sumers to send and receive mail and parcels can send everything from small parcels to conbecause we have the largest number of distributainer loads – to your neighbor or to the other tion points in the Nordic region where you can side of the world. drop off and collect parcels. PostNord provides With our broad service portfolio we can a world-class level of precision in delivering mail enhance the efficiency of our customers’ and parcels. Integrated organization to rapidly meet customers’ needs PostNord’s organization is based on country strengths. In addition the organization creates units that are responsible for production and the conditions for integrated production operasales in each country. This means that we have tions without double distribution networks and collective responsibility for each customer with overlapping delivery chains to customers, which simple and clear contact channels. Although our further cuts our costs and bolsters our offer. customers run operations in several Nordic In 2014 PostNord’s results were formally countries, our offers and services will look the reported for the business areas Mail & Communisame everywhere. We also gain better undercation, Logistics and PostNord Strålfors. The net standing of customers’ needs and can offer income for these business areas is presented ­additional and more efficient services. We can on page 24. As of Q1 2015 PostNord will report harness each other’s skills and coordinate our results for the country units. PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2014 15 Our offering “Twice the effect” Mail order company Engelsons has three million items “We have worked with PostNord for a long time; they in its warehouse in Falkenberg. It focuses on clothes take care of our deliveries. And they have also given and accessories for everyone who enjoys being in the us a bit of help with our mailings from time to time. But great outdoors – everything from barbecue skewers last fall we decided together to take our marketing to to practical, robust clothing. a somewhat higher level. We put all our facts and expe“We have about 250,000 loyal and returning riences on the table. PostNord used this as a starting ­customers. But of course we constantly want to reach point from which to examine our customer databases even more people,” says Stefan Engelson, CEO of the in detail, conduct a thorough analysis and develop company. a concept for how we can increase the accuracy of “To expand our customer base we send out our our mailings.” ­catalog six times a year with offers that are continu“We have now run three campaigns based on this ously adapted to the seasons. It has been a successful recommendation, which have given us twice the effect. method so far. Each year we succeed in attracting This surely shows that nothing is so good that it can’t 35,000 new customers, but we constantly ask be improved on.” ­ourselves how we can become even better.” Engelsons 16 PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2014 Our operations PostNord Sweden PostNord offers a broad palette of communications and logistics services and is responsible for the universal postal service in Sweden. With about 1,900 distribution points in Sweden, PostNord is a strong business partner for the growing e-commerce sector. In 2014 external net sales in PostNord Sweden amounted to SEK 21,987m. Market conditions and competition physical and digital methods, opportunities to view an During 2014 the Swedish communications market continitem in one channel and buy it in another, with fast, cusued to be considerably affected by the ongoing digitizatomized deliveries. PostNord is the retailers’ partner in tion. PostNord’s offer in business communications and everything from deliveries, warehousing and pick and market communications mainly faces competition from pack, to market analyses and customer segmentation. digital alternatives. The biggest competitors in terms of mail services and direct mail are Bring, Citymail and Events during the year Svensk Direktreklam. Various initiatives have been taken • Integration of the logistics and communications in Sweden in recent years to increase the digitization of ­operations to one country organization. companies’ and public authorities’ communication. How• The new mail terminal in Rosersberg was commisever, the initiatives have so far not been as coordinated sioned in September. It is one of the most modern mail and far-reaching as those in Denmark. Mail volumes in terminals in the world and a great deal of consideration the Swedish market fell by 4% in 2014. was taken to environmental and climate impact during The Swedish logistics market is characterized by conits construction. For example, the terminal has its own solidation, intense competition and cost focus. It is marked solar cell unit that supplies the building with some of by rising demand for more, and increasingly advanced, the energy it needs. Volumes will gradually be transservices. The outsourcing of logistics solutions is on the ferred in the course of 2014 and 2015. rise as more and more companies to outsource all or • PostNord Sweden changed the weight classification parts of their supply chaines. Customers request profesfor individual, stamped mail on April 1. The upper limit sional, cost-effective end-to-end solutions. In recent years of the lowest weight interval was increased from 20 to PostNord Sweden has broadened its focus on freight, con50 grams and the postage was increased from SEK 6 signment goods, mixed cargo groupage and TPL soluto SEK 7. tions. PostNord’s competitors in Sweden are, mainly, other • In August the efficiency of the terminal structure for major logistics companies such as DB Schenker and DHL. PostNord’s thermal operation in Norrland, northern The e-commerce market in Sweden continues to Sweden, was improved by making Umeå a new central grow – in 2014 by 16%, to SEK 42.9 billion – and it is becompoint. This creates better conditions for co-distribution ing increasingly integrated with the traditional retail trade. in the region, which enables more capacity to be used Customers’ new purchasing behaviors demand more of in trucks and causes less environmental impact, for the retail trade in terms of seamless transitions between example. PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2014 17 Our operations • Swedish retailer Clas Ohlson signed a long-term Share of external net sales ­agreement with PostNord for retail distribution in the Nordics (in this case, Sweden, Finland and Norway) and PostNord Sweden, 55% inward deliveries from the company’s Nordic suppliers. PostNord Denmark, 24% PostNord’s task is to secure efficient solutions that also reduce carbon dioxide emissions. PostNord Norway/Finland, 11% • The building materials and DIY chain Bauhaus PostNord Strålfors, 7% extended its cooperation with PostNord. The agreeOther countries, 3% ment encompasses a central warehouse solution and distribution to Bauhaus stores and e-commerce consumers in Sweden. • Swedish confectioner Candyking extended its longterm agreement for cooperation with PostNord. The Total mail and parcel volumes, Sweden agreement includes order production, warehousing Millions of mail items Millions of parcels and production of in-store displays and it is based at 3,000 90 one of PostNord’s TPL facilities in Norrköping. Regulatory changes 2,000 60 PostNord is conducting active dialogue with Swedish decision makers to adapt postal regulations to the changed market conditions more effectively. This aims 1,000 30 to secure efficient postal services in the long term on ­reasonable economic terms, despite the decline in mail 0 0 volumes, and also to attain the Group’s environmental 10 11 12 13 14 ­targets. Total mail volumes, Sweden Total parcel volumes, Sweden Delivery quality In 2014 delivery quality at PostNord Sweden was 93.5% for 1st class mail and 96.9% for parcels, compared to Distribution, external net sales ­PostNord’s own target of 95.0% for 1st class mail and 97.5% for parcels. The Swedish State’s requirement is that Mail & Communication, 61% at least 85% of 1st class mail be delivered on the following working day and 97% within three days. No quality Logistics, 39% requirements have been set on parcel deliveries. Many measures were taken during the year to improve quality and thus meet customer expectations. The measures resulted in a positive quality trend during Q4. Development during the year Net sales for PostNord Sweden increased by a total of 1%. Excluding acquisitions and exchange rate effects, net sales for Mail & Communication in Sweden decreased 2% due to reduced mail volumes, a lower number of news­ paper subscribers and direct mail recipients and ongoing intense competition in the logistics industry. Logistics in Sweden increased by 7%, mainly as a result of new ­customer contracts and higher parcel volumes. PostNord is implementing several restructuring programs in administration and production with the aim of adapting its operations to the declining mail volumes. DEVELOPMENT DURING THE YEAR PostNord Sweden1) 2014 2013 Change Change2) External net sales, SEKm 21,987 21,689 1% 0% of which Mail & Communication 13,521 13,813 –2% –2% of which Logistics 8,466 7,876 7% 3% Priority mail, millions of items 880 912 –4% n/a Non-priority mail, millions of items 1,103 1,144 –4% n/a Parcels, millions of items 80 72 11% n/a 1) Division into geographic areas mainly based on the companies’ domicile. 2) Change excluding acquisitions/divestments and currency. 18 PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2014 “Straight to your door” Service logistics is a rapidly growing area. It includes home deliveries of food. This trend has gained impetus in Denmark. Irma, the primary supermarket chain in the country, is a telling example of this. They have previously only been able to offer home delivery to customers in the Copenhagen area. They have now expended the service to cover large parts of ­Denmark, including Fyn and Jylland. “As we are the best in the physical groceries sector, we also want to be the best in online trading,” says Jesper Wacker­ hausen, Commercial Director at irma.dk. Online shopping at irma.dk climbed by 80% in 2014. “Through our close collaboration with PostNord, which holds a leading position in service logistics, we hope to be able to continue our positive trend.” “Irma packs thousands of plastic bags and insulated ­re­­frigeration and freezer bags with fresh products every day. PostNord makes three collections per day and delivers to ­distribution centers throughout the country – for rapid onward transportation to the homes of all food lovers. Talk about door-to-door deliveries!” Irma Our operations PostNord Denmark PostNord is the market leader in mail services and is responsible for the universal postal service in Denmark. In addition PostNord provides a complete logistics offer, including welfare distribution and service logistics. PostNord has a distribution network consisting of about 950 post offices (called posthus) and approximately 475 Pakkeboksen self-service stations for parcels. In 2014 ­external net sales in PostNord Denmark amounted to SEK 9,679m. Market conditions and competition Events during the year Denmark is one of the world’s most digital countries and • Integration of the logistics and communications the first country in the world to have passed legislation on ­operations to one country organization. mandatory digital communications between the public • In the course of 2014 PostNord improved the structure sector and the business sector and citizens. Communicaof its Danish logistics operations to boost profitability. tions between the public sector and consumers has taken Previously all goods operations were run via subconplace digitally since November 1, 2014. tractors in the former company Transportgruppen, The digitization has substantially affected mail volbut PostNord’s own network now handles the majority umes, which declined by 12% in 2014. Competitors in the of the transportation. Danish market for mail distribution and market communi• During the year PostNord Denmark signed a partner cations include Bladkompagniet and Forbrugerkontakt. agreement with the Danish transportation and logisThe Danish logistics market is continuing to grow, driven tics company Blue Water Shipping, stipulating that by both the expanding e-commerce and by the increas­PostNord will distribute the considerable volumes ing optimism in Danish business. There are, however, of parcels, pallets and mixed cargo groupage that many players competing for a share in the growing logisBlue Water Shipping handles for its Nordic customers. tics market. This leads to intensive competition for • New agreements were signed during the year for serincreased parcel volumes but at a lower price per item. vice logistics, for example with Irma, where PostNord PostNord’s main competitors in the Danish logistics delivers groceries to Irma’s online customers. Thanks ­market are major international players such as DHL, to PostNord’s extensive distribution network, Irma GLS and UPS. In 2014 PostNord gained a strong position now has the opportunity of offering customers home in the expanding service logistics market, not least in the deliveries in large parts of Denmark. groceries distribution segment, where the market grew • PostNord has also signed an agreement with the web­substantially in 2014. shop Skagenfood where PostNord delivers fresh fish and other staple goods to customers’ homes. PostNord’s nationwide distribution network and high level of delivery quality were also the decisive factors in this agreement. 20 PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2014 Our operations Share of external net sales • PostNord Denmark increased the postage of stamped mail as of January 1, 2014, which means that the postage for priority mail was increased from DKK 8 to DKK 9. The PostNord Sweden, 55% postage of non-priority mail weighing up to 50 grams PostNord Denmark, 24% was increased by DKK 0.50 to DKK 7, and the postage for PostNord Norway/Finland, 11% business mail was increased by an average of 3.4%. • PostNord markedly expanded its network of branches PostNord Strålfors, 7% in Denmark in 2014 by opening 150 post offices at partOther countries, 3% ners in supermarkets, kiosks and similar locations. The expansion of the branch network makes PostNord the mail and parcel distributor in Denmark with the most comprehensive network of distribution points. Total mail and parcel volumes, Denmark Regulatory changes and challenges Millions of mail items Millions of parcels The Danish Parliament, the Folketing, adopted an amend1,500 60 ment to Danish postal legislation in February 2014. The changes aimed to maintain efficient postal services on reasonable economic terms in light of the substantial 1,000 40 declines in mail volumes. As at March 1, 2014 the licensing terms for Post Danmark A/S were amended, which ­primarily entails: 500 20 • That non-priority mail can be delivered within four days instead of the previously specified three. 0 0 • Changed requirements for the post office network, 10 11 12 13 14 which mean that there must be at least 200 post Total mail volumes, Denmark offices that offer all services, and more than 750 that Total parcel volumes, Denmark offer selected services. • The opportunity of discontinuing deliveries of priority mail to consumers on Mondays. Distribution, external net sales Delivery quality The delivery quality in PostNord Denmark was as follows Mail & Communication, 70% in 2014: 94.8% for 1st class mail and 98.0% for parcels, Logistics, 30% compared to PostNord’s own targets of 95.0% for 1st class mail and 97.5% for parcels. The Danish State’s requirement is 93% for both mail and parcels. The focus has been on improving the delivery quality for 1st class mail, and the result increased from the requirement level to nearly reaching the target. Development during the year C ­ ommunication in Denmark saw a 9% reduction in its Net sales for PostNord Denmark decreased by a total of net sales, excluding exchange rate effects. Excluding 1%. Excluding acquisitions and exchange rate effects, total exchange rate effects, Logistics in Denmark rose by 1%. net sales were down 6% due to reduced mail volumes, PostNord is implementing several cost savings programs a lower number of direct mail recipients and ongoing in administration and production with the aim of adapting intense competition in the logistics industry. Mail & its operations to declining volumes. DEVELOPMENT DURING THE YEAR PostNord Denmark1) 2014 2013 Change Change2) External net sales, SEKm 9,679 9,807 –1% –6% of which Mail & Communication 6,802 7,102 –4% –9% of which Logistics 2,877 2,705 6% 1% Priority mail, millions of items 237 278 –15% n/a Non-priority mail and Business mail, millions of items 308 337 –9% n/a Parcels, millions of items 42 39 8% n/a 1) Division into geographic areas mainly based on the companies’ domicile. 2) Change excluding acquisitions/divestments and currency. PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2014 21 Our operations PostNord Norway/Finland In Norway and and Finland PostNord mainly runs logistics services but also offers the distribution of parcels to consumers. In Norway PostNord is the country’s largest logistics company, with a strong position in mixed cargo groupage, consignment goods, thermal transportation and parcel goods. PostNord has about 1,400 distribution points in Norway and about 1,100 in Finland. PostNord Norway/Finland had external net sales of SEK 4,374m in 2014. Market conditions and competition • A series of challenges in the Norwegian rail network The intense competition and accompanying price preshave forced PostNord to use more costly road transsure in the Norwegian logistics market remains. The main portation in order to maintain delivery quality, which competitor is Bring, but DHL and smaller players also has also adversely affected the environment. compete. PostNord Norway is tackling the market situa• In both Norway and Finland PostNord is testing the tion by continuing to focus on increasing cost-effectiveconcept of parcel mailboxes, from which customers ness in the business and by providing a competitive can collect parcels 24/7. PostNord installed four such ­end-to-end offering. boxes in Oslo and two in Helsinki during the year. The logistics market in Finland is relatively fragmented with many local players. PostNord Finland is one of the Regulatory changes leading players in overnight distribution, especially spare EEA member Norway has not implemented the same parts for vehicles, and in B2C distribution through its ­liberalization measures in the postal market as the EU extensive network of distribution points. The main Member States, so the Norwegian market remains regu­competitors are Posti Group and Schenker. lated. In 2014 the Norwegian Government announced that the mail monopoly in the country could possibly be Events during the year phased out. An opening of the Norwegian mail market • At the start of October PostNord Norway opened a could result in opportunities for other postal operators new goods terminal in Skei, situated between Stryn and to also extend their mail operations to Norway. Førde. The new terminal replaces three older terminals and, in addition to better operational stability and cost-­ Development during the year effectiveness, it creates increased opportunities of Net sales for PostNord Norway/Finland decreased by offering services such as InNight and home deliveries. a total of 1%. Excluding exchange rate effects, net sales decreased by 1%. Share of external net sales PostNord Sweden, 55% PostNord Denmark, 24% PostNord Norway/Finland, 11% PostNord Strålfors, 7% Other countries, 3% DEVELOPMENT DURING THE YEAR PostNord Norway/Finland1) 2014 2013 Change Change2) External net sales, SEKm 4,374 4,437 –1% –1% of which Logistics 4,374 4,437 –1% –1% Parcels, millions, Norway 9.6 8.4 15% n/a Parcels, millions, Finland 5.9 5.5 9% n/a 1) Division into geographic areas mainly based on the companies’ domicile. 2) Change excluding acquisitions/divestments and currency. 22 PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2014 Clas Ohlson “A comprehensive Nordic logistics solution” It all started as a one-man mail order firm in Insjön in the Throughout the Nordic region. One that also shares Swedish province of Dalarna nearly 100 years ago. Today Clas Ohlson’s values in terms of approach to logistics Clas Ohlson has grown to become a successful European and the environment.” retail chain. However, Insjön remains the heart of the “By grouping our entire operation in the Nordic region business; The 77,000 m2 warehouse is located there. under one umbrella, the company has benefited from Each day, 100 trucks carrying about 1,000 pallets drive in substantial synergies. The vehicles can travel fully loaded and out of this hub, to and from the 185 stores that have in all directions. This creates financial benefits. And virtually no warehousing space of their own. reduces carbon dioxide emissions. One extra bonus “The more we expanded, the more important it was that PostNord managed to put together a solution became to identify effective synergies to optimize our in Norway that reduces emissions by 30%.” transportation arrangements,” says Peter Bergestål, “All in all: a sustainable end-to-end solution packaged Transport Manager at Clas Ohlson. “Our aim was to use by PostNord.” one single supplier. For both inward and outward flows. Financial development Financial overview 2014 Net sales and income c­ ompetition in direct mail. Mail volumes decreased by a External net sales, SEKm 2014 2013 % total of 5%, of which 12% in Denmark and 4% in Sweden. The volume decline was partially mitigated by further PostNord Sweden 21,987 21,689 1 strong growth in e-commerce-related services. of which Reported operating income totaled SEK 592m (570) Mail & Communication 13,521 13,813 –2 and the operating margin was 2.4% (2.3). During the year, of which Logistics 8,466 7,876 7 major cost-savings programs and efficiency measures PostNord Denmark 9,679 9,807 –1 were carried out. of which Mail & Towards year-end, a property in Denmark was Communication 6,802 7,102 –4 divested, generating a capital gain. Adjusted for items of which Logistics 2,877 2,705 6 affecting comparability, operating income totaled SEK 728m (570) and the operating margin was 3.0% (2.3). PostNord Norway/Finland 4,374 4,437 –1 The improvement was mainly the result of personell of which Logistics 4,374 4,437 –1 streamlining actions carried out. PostNord Strålfors 2,588 2,504 3 Business area Logistics Other countries 1,322 1,096 SEKm 2014 2013 % Group total 39,950 39,533 1 Net sales 15,940 15,187 5 PostNord’s net sales increased by 1% in 2014 compared to Adjusted operating income (EBIT) –10 122 >100 2013. Excluding acquisitions and exchange rate effects, Adjusted operating margin, % –0.1 0.7 net sales decreased by 1%. Mail volumes declined by a Operating income (EBIT) –74 122 >100 total of 5% during the year, of which 12% in Denmark and Operating margin, % –0.5 0.7 4% in Sweden. The Group’s parcel volumes increased by 9%, of which e-commerce-related B2C parcel volumes Net sales increased by 5% and excluding acquisitions and increased by 15%. exchange rate effects by 2%. The increase is mainly due The Group’s reported operating income for 2014 to new contracts and higher parcel volumes. Parcel volreached SEK 351m (662) and the operating margin was umes rose 9%, with the number of e-commerce-related 0.9% (1.7). The Group’s result includes Other and EliminaB2C items increasing by 15%. tion of SEK –104m (–32). The Group’s costs during the year Reported operating income totaled SEK –74m (122) were reduced through cost-saving programs, while at the and the operating margin was –0.5% (0.7). During the year, same time higher parcel volumes led to additional varisubstantial cost-saving programs were carried out, which able costs. However, the net outcome was positive. reduced costs, while at the same time higher parcel volAdjusted operating income for the full year totaled to umes increased related variable costs. However, the net SEK 861m (826) and the adjusted operating margin was outcome is, positive. Reported adjusted operating income 2.2% (2.1). The Group’s adjusted result includes Group totaled SEK –10m (122) and the adjusted operating m ­ argin items affecting comparability regarding provisions related was –0.1% (0.7). The lower margin is attributable to the to restructuring measures within Group functions and continued tough competition in the logistics market. impairment of intangible assets in IT totaling SEK 246m as well as Other and Elimination of SEK –104m. PostNord Strålfors Net financial items were SEK –106m (–208) and were SEKm 2014 2013 % positively affected by lower interest expense related to Net sales 2,663 2,612 2 pensions, finance leasing and exchange rate effects Adjusted operating income (EBIT) 1 2 –50 ­compared to the preceding year. Tax expense was Adjusted operating margin, % 0.0 0.1 SEK –69m (–148). Net income totaled SEK 176m (306). Operating income (EBIT) –63 2 >100 Operating margin, % –2.4 0.1 Operations Business area Mail & Communication Net sales increased by 2%. Excluding acquisitions and SEKm 2014 2013 % exchange rate effects, net sales decreased by 1%. Lower sales in units exposed to competition from digital alternaNet sales 21,805 22,124 –1 tives were offset by higher sales of, in particular, standardAdjusted operating income, (EBIT) 728 570 28 ized printing solutions and new customer contracts. Adjusted operating margin, % 3.0 2.3 Reported operating income totaled SEK –63m (2) Operating income (EBIT) 592 570 4 and the operating margin was –2.4% (0.1). During the year Operating margin, % 2.4 2.3 costsaving and efficiency programs were carried out. Net sales declined by 1% and excluding acquisitions and Adjusted operating income totaled SEK 1m (2) and the exchange rate effects by 3%. The lower net sales were operating margin was 0.0% (0.1). Comparative figures for mainly due to the continued digitization with declining net income in 2013 were amended by SEK –16m due to mail volumes, lower number of newspaper subscribers a corrected report from a subsidiary during the first and direct mail recipients, as well as continued ­quarter of 2014. 24 PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2014 Financial development A decision was taken during the year to evaluate a possiCash flow from investing activities totaled SEK –1,386m ble divestment of the business of Strålfors with a view (–2,640). The change was mainly due to fewer acquisito free up capital in PostNord, while enabling Strålfors to tions in 2014 than in 2013, divestment of properties and expand its opportunities to develop through a new ownlower investments in property, plant and equipment. ership structure. The evaluation process is proceeding Investments in tangible fixed assets were primarily made as lanned. The fulfilment business conducted within in production vehicles, transport and sorting equipment ­Strålfors will remain with PostNord and will not be affected and facilities related to the establishment of the new by any future divestment. ­terminals in Sweden. Cash flow from financing activities totaled SEK 566m Financial position (–82). During the period the Group raised new loans The Group’s equity decreased to SEK 7,991m compared ­totaling SEK 750m net (181). to SEK 9,034m in the preceding year. The reduction is Cash and cash equivalents totaled SEK 1,843m at ­primarily attributable to revaluation of pension obligathe end of the period, compared with SEK 1,981m as of tions in the amount of SEK –1,682m, and an adjustment December 31, 2013. of SEK 370m in deferred tax and exchange differences of SEK 238m. Parent Company The debt ratio (net debt/equity) was 46% compared The Parent Company PostNord AB has run very limited to 18% as at December 31, 2013. The increase over the operations in the form of intra-Group service, and as at year was attributable to revaluation of the pension liability December 31 the Company had three employees. No net based on a lower discount rate, and to a negative cash sales were recognized during the year. Operating expen­ flow after investments. The net debt/EBITDA ratio (trailing ses totaled SEK 40m (36). Financial items totaled SEK 31m 12-month) was 1.7. (–110) for the full year. Of the financial items, SEK 200m PostNord is conducting capital efficiency programs in, (773) comprised dividend from subsidiaries and SEK 0m above all, two areas. In working capital our focus is on (800) was attributable to last year’s write-down of shares reducing current receivables and increasing current liabilin subsidiaries. Net income totaled SEK 192m (–30). ities by reviewing our contracts, while in our real estate portfolio we are evaluating potential property divestProposed distribution of earnings ments. Over time, this will enhance our flexibility. The Board of Directors proposes that unappropriated earnings be distributed as follows: Net debt SEK Dec 31, Dec 31, Carried forward 3,630,378,067 SEKm 2014 2013 Total 3,630,378,067 Financial receivables 1,092 1,199 Current interest-bearing receivables 0 163 In view of the Company’s results and its ongoing Cash and cash equivalents 1,843 1,981 ­restructuring needs, the Board of Directors proposes Interest-bearing liabilities –5,384 –4,592 that no ­dividend be paid. Pensions1) –1,223 –375 Net debt2) –3,672 –1,624 1) Including plan assets. 2) The definition of net debt was changed as of 2014 in conjunction with the decision on new financial targets at the 2014 AGM, after which values for 2013 were restated. Also see Note 33 for Definitions. The Group’s net debt increased by SEK 2,048m to SEK 3,672m. The increase was mainly due to revaluation of the pension liability based on a lower discount rate, and to a negative cash flow after investments. The Group’s financial preparedness totaled SEK 3,843m, compared with SEK 3,968m on December 31, 2013. The total consisted of cash and cash equivalents of SEK 1,843m and an unutilized committed line of credit of SEK 2,000m maturing in 2017. Cash flows Cash flow from operating activities totaled SEK 670m (1,657). The decrease was mainly due to a negative cash flow from a reduction in current liabilities, mainly due lower accounts payable compared with the preceding year. PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2014 25 Financial development Important events in 2014 Key events – Q1 New CFO Strategy development, new organization On May 12 PostNord announced that Gunilla Berg had been appointed and changed Group brand structure as the new CFO to succeed Henrik Rättzén who left PostNord. Gunilla On February 3, 2014 PostNord launched a revised version of the stratBerg took up her position in September. egy that was established in 2011. The strategy was developed in terms of the Group’s key priorities. In addition, it was announced that a new PostNord is refinancing a SEK 2 billion credit facility organization would apply as of March 31, 2014. Since March 31, 2014 PostNord entered an agreement for a three-year Multicurrency PostNord has been organized in a matrix organization with country ­Revolving Credit Facility of SEK 2 billion for short-term financing. units (Sweden, Denmark, Norway and Finland). PostNord also The credit facility replaces the previous one that matures in 2016. announced that as of 2014 it would integrate the Group’s commercial brand symbols with PostNord’s logo to harness the strength of ­ Key events – Q3 existing commercial brands and increase clarity and uniformity. Extraordinary General Meeting 2014 At an Extraordinary General Meeting on August 25, 2014 a decision Changes to the Group Executive Team and Board of Directors was made to merge PostNord Logistics AB with Posten Meddelande AB, As of February 1, 2014 the following people have been members of which, in conjunction with this, changes its name to PostNord Sverige AB. PostNord’s Group Executive Team: Håkan Ericsson, K.B. Pedersen, Andreas Falkenmark, Peter Kjaer Jensen, (as of April 1), Per Samuelson, Key events – Q4 Annemarie Gardshol, Anders Holm, Henning Christensen, Robin Olsen, Cost-saving program Henrik Rättzén, Per Mossberg, Joss Delissen, Finn Hansen and PostNord initiated a cost-saving program with an annual saving of Johanna Allert. approximately SEK 500m. The program aims to reduce the number of The Swedish State’s representative on the Board of Directors, employees by a total of around 800, of which the majority in Denmark, Jonas Iversen, resigned his position as a PostNord Board member in administration and other support functions. The related provisions on February 14, 2014. Patrik Jönsson was a co-opted Board member of SEK 696m, was charged to the result in the fourth quarter. Negotiafor the time until the AGM. tions with the trade unions were concluded in December in Denmark and January in Sweden. New Danish postal legislation The Danish Parliament, the Folketing, adopted an amendment to DanEvaluation of conditions for possible ish postal legislation on February 18, 2014. The changes aim to maintain divestment of the Strålfors business efficient postal services on commercial terms in light of the substantial PostNord decided to evaluate the conditions for a possible divestment declines in mail volumes, As a result of the new Danish postal law, the of the Strålfors business. A sale of Strålfors would free up capital in licensing terms for Post Danmark A/S were changed on March 1, 2014. PostNord, while a new ownership structure could enable Strålfors to expand its opportunities to fully participate in the dynamic growth in New weight category and new prices in Sweden the north European communications market. The fulfilment business On February 24, it was announced that the weight category for 1st within Strålfors will remain with PostNord and will not be affected by class mail would change in Sweden. As of April 1, 2014 just one stamp any future disposal. is required for items weighing up to 50 grams (the previous limit was 20 grams). At the same time, the postage was adjusted to SEK 7. Changes in PostNord’s Group Executive Team Knud B. Pedersen retired from his position as the Group’s Deputy CEO Charging VAT on postal services and PostNord AB’s Executive Vice President at year-end. At the same In March, Nordea submitted a demand to the Office of the Chancellor time, Knud B. Pedersen left his post as CEO of Post Danmark A/S. of Justice aimed at the Swedish State regarding charging VAT on During the first half of 2015, Knud B. Pedersen will serve as an advisor postal services. VAT has been charged on postal services according to PostNord’s President and CEO. to applicable Swedish legislation. On November 20, 2013 the European The legal and operational structures in Denmark were consoliCommission announced a decision to take legal action against the dated at year-end. At the time, the Head of PostNord Denmark, Swedish State at the EU’s Court of Justice because Sweden has not ­Henning Christensen, also took over as CEO of Post Danmark A/S. implemented the provisions of the VAT Directive regarding VAT Effective year-end, Group function Legal affairs will report to the CEO exemption for postal services. The Office of the Chancellor of Justice and Head of Legal affairs Kristina Lilja, who took up her post in the rejected Nordea’s demand in April 2014 and referred to factors such as fourth quarter, will join the Group Executive Team. the EU’s Court of Justice possibly trying the case. Additionally, a numFollowing an evaluation of a possible divestment of the Strålfors ber of customers of Posten AB have submitted equivalent demands. business, Strålfors CEO Per Samuelson will no longer be part of the Group Executive Team effective October 30, 2014. PostNord issues bonds totaling SEK 550m. On March 25 PostNord AB issued bonds of SEK 550m with April 1 as Dispute regarding licensing conditions for PostNord Group AB the settlement date. The bond loan spans five years and carries a “PostNord” (formerly Posten AB) ­variable interest rate of 3 months STIBOR + 85 basis points. The issue On September 27, 2013, the Swedish Administrative Court issued a took place within the framework of the existing Medium Term Note ­ruling on the 2012 Licensing Conditions. The effect of the ruling was program, and the bonds are listed on NASDAQ Stockholm. to approve PTS’s decision establishing very far-reaching requirements for transparency, which would harm PostNord’s competitiveness. Key events – Q2 ­PostNord appealed the decision at the Stockholm Administrative Court PostNord’s 2014 AGM of Appeal, which did not grant leave to appeal. PostNord appealed the PostNord’s AGM was held on April 23, 2014. Jens Moberg was decision at the Supreme Administrative Court, which on December 22, re-elected Chairman of the Board. The meeting re-elected the Board 2014 decided not to grant leave to appeal. As a result, PTS’s decision members Mats Abrahamsson, Gunnel Duveblad, Christian Ellegaard, regarding the 2012 Licensing Conditions stands. The current licensing Sisse Fjelsted Rasmussen, Torben Janholt and Anitra Steen. Magnus conditions are valid until September 30, 2015, inclusive. Under these Skåninger was elected as a new Board member. The meeting also conditions, PTS reserves the right to amend its transparency requiredecided on new financial targets for PostNord. ments when the final review of the 2012 conditions has concluded, but it has not yet been clarified whether PTS will avail itself of this right. Key events after the reporting date 26 PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2014 No significant events occurred after the reporting date. PostNord’s sustainability work Sustainability is central to PostNord’s continued development and success PostNord makes it possible for companies and consumers to do business and communicate with each other every day, thus fulfilling an important function in the business community and society of the Nordic countries. This carries a great responsibility. It is crucial to predict, understand and act on the issues that our stakeholders perceive as important in order to develop the Group in the right direction. Targets: Increase corporate image index, Targets: Increase the employee index increase customer value index, quality (MIX) and leadership index (LIX), improve ­targets for delivery of mail and parcels gender equality, reduce sick leave (see (see page 12). page 12). Dialogue and follow-up: Customer Dialogue and follow-up: Performance ­meetings, customer service, drivers and appraisals, workplace meetings, employee mail carriers, PostNord’s service network, dialogues, communication via internal customer ombudsman/appeal body. channels, dialogue with trade unions. Measurements: Measurements of Measurements: Annual employee Customers ­customer satisfaction and of consumer Employees ­surveys, leadership follow-up, employee PostNord is a leading player and corporate customer perceptions of With around 38,000 employcommitment, sick leave, women in incommunication and logistics PostNord. Measurements of delivery ees, PostNord is one of the ­executive positions, work environment in the Nordic region and ­quality for mail and parcels, customer­­largest employers in the Nordic survey, incident reporting. wants to be the first choice specific environmental data. region. Important issues: Customer focus, for customers and recipients Important issues: Delivery quality, health and safety, information on the throughout the region. ­accessibility, high level of expertise among development and direction of the Group, sales representatives, good c­ ustomer responsible restructuring, development ­service, security, environment, focus on opportunities, working conditions, customer solutions, supplier chain. ­gender equality. Targets: Return on capital employed Dialogue and follow-up: Supplier 10.5%, net debt/equity ratio 10–50%, meetings, tenders and purchasing ­dividend, reduce carbon dioxide negotiations, dialogue with partner ­emissions, improve gender equality ­outlets. (see page 12). Measurements: Annual measureDialogue and follow-up: Annual ments of Swedish and Danish partners’ ­General Meeting (AGM), Annual Report perceptions of their collaboration and Sustainability Report, interim finanwith PostNord. Mystery shopper cial statements, continuous dialogue ­measurements. Owners via discussions and meetings. Business partners Important issues: Partnership, delivery The overall mission from the Important issues: Value creation and Business partners summarizes reliability, information from PostNord owners is to create value and financial stability, sustainable enterprise, PostNord’s relationships with partin support of customer service. Transensure provision of a universal performance of universal service ners outside the Group, for examparency in procurement processes, postal service. ­obligation stipulated by law, and license ple suppliers and partner outlets. ­capacity for payment, quality of delivconditions. Every year PostNord purchases ery. S­ ustainability in the supplier chain. goods and services amounting to billions of kronor and has around 5,800 distribution points. Targets: Increase corporate image Targets: Ambition to be an investment index, educe carbon dioxide emissions grade company. (see page 12). Dialogue and follow-up: Interim finanDialogue and follow-up: Dialogues with cial statements, Annual Report and public authorities, politicians and opinion ­Sustainability Report, meetings and leaders. Dialogue and collaboration with ­discussions with analysts and investors. trade associations, interest groups Measurements: Shadow rating, price (e.g., rural), organizations for sustainable of PostNord’s outstanding bonds, development and social responsibility. access to new financing. Society Dialogues with students. Capital market Important issues: Financial stability, PostNord plays a key role in the Measurements: Corporate image PostNord finances its business net debt/equity ratio, cash flow, ­business Nordic business community ­surveys, specific questions linked to suspartly through bonds. C ­ apital model, ownership structure. and society. tainability in the Group’s customer and market confidence is therefore employee surveys, measurement of the important to P ­ ostNord. environmental impact of the business. Important issues: Quality, environment, security, reliability, accessibility, consideration of customer needs, degree of value for money of products and services. PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2014 27 PostNord’s sustainability work Sustainability a priority Assessment of material issues Sustainability has been highlighted during the year as one of the areas PostNord works in harmony with the surrounding world and depends of highest priority for the Group and is one of the priorities in the on its trust. In short, this means that what is important to PostNord’s Group strategy. The Group Executive Team bears main responsibility key stakeholders is also important to PostNord. Also PostNord, in for managing PostNord’s work on sustainability. The Head of Sustainits capacity as a state-owned company, is expected to act in an ability reports to the HR Director, who bears overall responsibility for ­exemplary manner. To determine which sustainability aspects are sustainability issues in the Group Executive Team. ­prioritized by PostNord’s stakeholders and internally in the Group, During the year the focus was on aspects including implementing a materiality assessment was performed in 2014. a new Group-wide Code of Conduct and establishing a sustainability This work took place internally with participants from the Group committee whose basic task it is to provide input to the strategic Executive Team and representatives from Group functions, country agenda for sustainability work in the Group. The committee is also organizations and business areas. The group was asked to rank responsible for ensuring that sustainability work is performed in the ­various sustainability issues, partly in terms of their significance to Group’s functional management teams or other relevant forums. FurPostNord and partly considering their importance to stakeholders ther, the sustainability aspects of most relevance to PostNord’s stakewhen they make decisions. The materiality assessment was based holders and the Group were evaluated with the help of a materiality on the methods in GRI G4, but the sustainability aspects specific to assessment. PostNord were also ranked. Owner with high demands Verification of the materiality assessment The Swedish State’s ownership policy and guidelines for state-owned The results of the materiality assessment were discussed and verified companies demand that PostNord shall act in an exemplary manner during the year by a few selected representatives of certain stakeholdin sustainable enterprise. State-owned companies shall have a well­ers. The customers particularly highlighted delivery quality, the enviconsidered, well-established policy and strategy and set strategic ronment and follow-up on the supplier chain as material aspects, while ­targets for sustainable enterprise. Like other state-owned companies, employee representatives emphasized health and safety and responPostNord is evaluated with regard to both financial and non-financial sible restructuring. The materiality assessment will be followed up on targets. an annual basis, and verification with customers and other stakeholders will be handled within established dialogue. Material sustainability issues GRI/Own We are striving for profitable long-term development 1 ​6 Financial results GRI ​12 Return on capital/Dividend to shareholders GRI We enable companies and consumers to do business and communicate. Essential to stakeholders’ decisions ​1 Delivery quality Own ​2 Product labeling/Customer satisfaction GRI ​5 Customer complaints Own 2 ​7 Overnight delivery Own 3 We take responsibility for our environmental impact. 7 6 5 ​4 Environmental impact of products and services GRI 4 ​9 Emissions GRI ​15 Sustainable product solutions Own 8 9 11 We care about our employees 10 12 ​18 Responsible restructuring Own 13 ​20 Health and safety GRI 16 15 14 ​21 Employee confidence in management Own 17 ​22 Diversity and gender equality GRI 19 18 We take responsibility for our impact on society 20 ​8 Accessibility Own 22 21 ​10 Delivery reliability, security Own ​11 Impact on local communities Own ​16 Indirect economic impact GRI Essential to PostNord from a financial, environmental or social perspective We make demands when purchasing goods and services ​14 Assessing suppliers GRI After an initial review of all GRI aspects (sustainability issues) around 40 aspects/ We comply with legislation and regulations issues were evaluated in the final analysis. The overview above shows the 22 ​3 Customer privacy GRI aspects/issues that it was finally decided were within the interval “high to very high ​13 Compliance GRI relevance” to both external stakeholders and PostNord. ​17 Anti-corruption GRI ​19 Competition-inhibiting behavior GRI 28 PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2014 PostNord’s sustainability work Compilation of results of the materiality assessment: Material Sustainability issues in Why material to Why material to Material aspect the matrix on page 2 ​8 Ext Int stakeholders’ decisions? PostNord? We are striving for profitable Financial results 6 x x A well-managed, profitable company is Profitable, sustainable developlong-term development Return on capital/Dividend attractive in the eyes of the surrounding ment is required if the company to shareholders ​12 x x world – it finds it easier to attract new is to exist and be successful. ­customers, employees, suppliers and financiers. Dividends are paid to the shareholders and, by extension, all citizens in Denmark and Sweden. Taxes Read more on pages 12 are paid to the State treasuries in the and 36. countries where business is conducted. We enable companies and Delivery quality ​1 x x High delivery quality is crucial to Along with customer satisfacconsumers to do business Product labeling/Customer x x ­customer decisions on their choice tion, it is a requirement for and communicate satisfaction ​2 x x of supplier of communications and ­further business and profitable Customer complaints ​5 x x ­logistics services. development. Overnight delivery ​7 Read more on pages 12 and 36. We take responsibility for Environmental impact of products and x x Many customers have ambitious enviEnvironmental efforts are our environmental impact services ​4 ronmental targets that PostNord can becoming an increasingly Emissions ​9 x x help them to achieve as their supplier. important competitive factor Sustainable product solutions ​15 x As a State-owned company, PostNord and are crucial to PostNord’s is expected to act in an exemplary ­ability to rise to the challenge ­manner in the environmental field. of competition. A lower environRead more on pages 30–32. mental impact often means lower resource consumption, with lower costs as a result. We care about our employResponsible restructuring ​18 x Being a good employer is fundamental As one of the Nordic region’s ees Health and safety ​20 x x to attracting skilled personnel. Many ­biggest employers, PostNord Employee confidence in x ­customers also make demands in bears major responsibility for management ​21 x x this area. its employees. Good employee Diversity and gender equality ​22 relations are crucial to PostNord, particularly if it is to succeed in Read more on pages 33–35. restructuring the business. We take responsibility for Accessibility ​8 x Many consumers and organizations use PostNord has a key role to play in our impact on society Delivery reliability and security ​10 x x and depend on PostNord’s services – the business community and in Impact on local communities ​11 x they expect PostNord to always keep society, both in its performance Indirect economic impact ​16 x its promises. of universal postal service obligations and by being a communication and logistics supplier with Read more on pages 36–37. extensive coverage and capacity. We make demands when Assessing suppliers ​14 x Good relations with suppliers have a posWorking with responsible purchasing itive effect on cooperation. Customers ­business partners reduces risks goods and services and other stakeholders expect PostNord and contributes to PostNord’s to manage its supplier chain in a responown sense of responsibility sible manner. and performance in terms of Read more on pages 38. sustainability. We comply with legislation Customer privacy ​3 x x PostNord handles large quantities of PostNord has several external and regulations Compliance ​13 x x mail items and customer data, and all and internal principles and Anti-corruption ​17 x x stakeholders expect PostNord to ­regulations to navigate and Competition-inhibiting behavior ​19 x x ­handle them in the correct way. ­comply with. Read more on page 39. The basis of PostNord’s work on sustainability Constant improvements with management system Certification is a competitive advantage that many cusMission, vision tomers request. In 2014 the Swedish part of the Group Code of Conduct received a work environment certificate (OHSAS 18001) and values for the first time. The Danish business has had a work environment certificate since 2009. The Swedish and Danish businesses are already certified to the standards for quality (ISO 9001) and the environment (ISO 14001). Business plan with Certified PostNord Norway and PostNord Strålfors have their own financial and management system quality and environmental certificates. The certification non-financial targets involves regular internal evaluations and external audits, which form an important part of internal improvement efforts. PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2014 29 Environment Towards an environmentally sound PostNord Being one of the Nordic region’s foremost suppliers of communication and logistics solutions is linked to environmental impact, mainly in the form of carbon dioxide emissions from road transport. By focusing on energy and emissions, PostNord is paving the way to reducing its environmental impact. The Group’s targets for emissions reduction fuel. Where small and light duty vehicles are concerned, As a transportation company, emissions of carbon dioxit is becoming increasingly economical to switch from ide from its own vehicles and outsourced transportation conventional vehicles to electric vehicles. services constitute PostNord’s largest environmental impact. The Group uses all types of transportation in its business – from air and truck to moped and bicycle. Emissions1) Reducing the Group’s carbon dioxide emissions is one (tonnes unless otherwise of the key areas where sustainability is concerned. The stated) 2014 2013 2012 Group’s long-term environmental targets mean a Fossil CO2 emissions, total 400,690 399,951 430,154 decrease in carbon dioxide emissions of 40% by 2020, Direct CO2 emissions compared to the level in 2009. Since 2009 emissions (EN15, Scope 1) 141,830 165,655 137,657 have decreased by 16.6%, thanks to efficiency measures Own transportation taken in the transportation chain, investments in vehicles Fossil fuels 140,108 163,819 136,027 with better fuel economy, an increased proportion of elecRenewable fuels 15,629 11,451 8,775 trical vehicles, a greater proportion of biofuel in diesel and Direct heat consumption the purchase of fossil-free electricity. The marginal (gas and oil) 1,722 1,837 1,630 increase of 0.2% in 2014 is mainly due to the fact that the Indirect CO2 emissions emissions factor for non-eco-labeled electricity, which is (EN16, Scope 2) 41,487 33,362 43,825 used to calculate carbon dioxide emissions, has increased Heat and electricity 107,228 78,456 87,395 significantly. However, the Group has reduced energy Purchase of eco-labeled elecconsumption in its premises by 5% during the year. tricity (EN19) –65,741 –45,094 –43,570 Other indirect CO2 emissions The way forward (EN17, Scope 3) 217,372 200,933 248,672 In 2014 a renewed strategic analysis was carried out to Subcontractors, transportation clarify the measures required to achieve the environmen(road, rail, air and sea) tal target. The greatest challenge lies in reducing emisFossil fuels 211,652 194,214 241,348 sions from heavy load transportations. There are several Renewable fuels 9,813 10,819 13,306 alternatives, including switching road-based transportaBusiness travel, EN17 5,720 6,720 7,323 tion to trains and replacing conventional vehicles with Other emissions to air for electric vehicles, for example. The integrated production transportation (EN21) model (read more on page 11) will also reduce carbon dioxCarbon monoxide 605 594 626 ide emissions since transporting mail and parcels in the Nitrogen oxides 2,842 1,754 2,279 same vehicles and a more efficient internal infrastructure Hydrocarbons (VOC) 286 215 243 will reduce the need for transportation. Particulates 121 57 43 Dependent on external players The way forward is also influenced by politics and instruments at national, regional and local level in different transportation segments. PostNord and other players in the industry see a great need for stable and predictable energy Carbon dioxide emissions, 2009–20141) and transportation policies that take a long-term approach. Thousands of metric tonnes The Swedish and Norwegian railway network is 500 under-maintained and its capacity is limited. This naturally affects PostNord’s operations, which make high demands 400 in terms of delivery quality. Opportunities for a greater number of more rapid and efficient switches between rail and 300 road vehicles, for example, are also of central importance. Alternative fuels and more electric vehicles are 200 required if PostNord is to achieve its target. In Sweden several fuel suppliers supply diesel with a high proportion 100 of biofuel, a diesel standard that is not available in the other countries where the Group operates. 0 09 10 11 12 13 14 During the year PostNord carried out two tenders for Total CO2 emissions electric vehicles, the aim being to increase the proportion of electric vehicles in the Group and reduce the propor1) The emissions data includes completed acquisitions. tion of short distances driven using vehicles run on fossil Previously reported emissions have been adjusted. 30 PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2014 Environment Delivery requirements balanced is evaluated internally through e.g. internal controls and with ­environmental ambitions evaluations. The Group’s management system is revised PostNord strives to conduct all business with the miniannually by an external party. PostNord’s operations in mum possible impact on the environment. Both the Sweden, Norway and Denmark plus Strålfors is environSwedish and the Danish postal regulations specify requirementally certified according to ISO14001; see page 29. ments for overnight delivery. To meet these requirements, some mail items must be transported by air in Sweden, Environmentally licensed operations which means higher carbon dioxide emissions compared PostNord conducts business in Sweden, Denmark, France to road or rail transportation. Further, overnight delivery and Poland that must be reported to the authorities as requirements mean that mail must be distributed every stated in national legislation. In Sweden, France and weekday, regardless of whether or not the mail carrier’s Poland, this affects Strålfors facilities for graphic producvehicle is filled to capacity. PostNord manages mail and tion. In Sweden a number of vehicle washing facilities are parcel volumes in an efficient way. To the same extent, also required to report their business activities. the demand from the State owners means that carbon During the year a major environmental incident dioxide emissions per shipment are not decreasing at occurred in Sweden when a fuel tank on a truck was the same pace as the total decrease in mail volumes. ­damaged in an accident and 480 liters of diesel leaked out near a municipal water catchment. Immediate Organization for a more environmentally actions were taken and the land was decontaminated. sound PostNord The Group’s sustainability department is responsible for strategic environmental work. The Head of Sustainability Carbon dioxide emissions per item (EN18) reports directly to the Chief HR Officer, who is responsible for PostNord’s environmental targets. The outcome is followed up on a quarterly basis through reporting to the Group Executive Team and Board. The Group’s sustainability department leads the Environmental Council, on which the Group’s country organiza507g 34,2g CO2 CO tions are represented. The Environmental Council’s task is to 2 ensure that the strategic environmental work is carried out and to share experiences and best practice in the Group. In 2014 the Board adopted PostNord’s Group-wide Code of Conduct (read more on page 39), which includes the environmental policy. PostNord supplies environmentally The Group’s environmental aspects are regularly ­sustainable product solutions reviewed and assessed. Procedures and instructions are Customers have high environmental demands, givavailable in the management system that take into coning PostNord even more reason to reduce its emissideration the precautionary principle, e.g. in actions to be sions and environmental impact. One of the most taken in incidents that can affect the environment, chemiimportant customer demands is for the business to cals management and waste management. When parts be environmentally certified. PostNord’s business has of the business are established or moved, or when new been partly certified according to ISO14001 for more products and services are developed, environmental than 15 years. Many corporate customers have their impact assessments are performed, with aims including own ambitious environmental targets and as a transminimizing environmental risks. The environmental work portation supplier, PostNord can help them achieve these targets. PostNord offers services including Distribution of total carbon dioxide environmental services. There are also increasingly emissions per category frequent demands for rail transportation to be used wherever possible. For example, PostNord’s Transportation by road, 84% Norwegian business has helped customers reduce Air, 4% emissions by moving goods from roads to railways. ­PostNord also contributes to the customer’s report­­ Sea, 0% ing and communication, for example through cus­ Business travel, 1% tomerspecific environmental reports. Customers Electricity, 8% use these reports to monitor their logistics flow and make it more efficient and also as documentation for Heating, 3% their own environmental and sustainability reporting. PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2014 31 Environment How we reduce our environmental impact 1. W e transport approximately 65% of mail volumes in 2. We are installing solar panels and making the business more energy efficient ­Sweden by rail between sorting terminals. In Norway, The mail terminal in Hallsberg became certified as a Green Building in 2014. At the Rosersthe majority of parcel and pallet volumes are transported berg terminal, put into operation during the year, there are 2,000 m2 of solar panels on by rail. the roof, giving around 200,000 kWh over the course of a year and meeting around 4% In 2013 and 2014 PostNord put two new mail terminals, in Hallsof the terminal’s need for electricity. In 2014 PostNord won an award during the Building berg and Rosersberg into operation. The terminals are located Green Forum expo in Copenhagen for its Grøn Adfærd (Green Behavior) initiative. The near the Swedish railroad network, with tracks that go straight ­initiative takes the form of a campaign in PostNord’s Danish business that aims to save into the buildings, which simplifies the flows transported by rail. In energy. The campaign was launched in 2012 and apart from greater awareness of envi2014 some pallet t­ ransportation between Malmö and Stockholm ronmental issues among employees, it has led to lasting results in the form of a reduction was transferred to trains, replacing around in energy costs of around 10% per m2. four trucks daily. During the year PostNord, along with a power supplier, analyzed electricity consumption at three mail carrier offices on the Swedish island of Gotland. The analysis meant that energy consumption could be reduced by around 20%. A competition to save energy among the employees showed that there is potential to reduce energy consumption by 3. W  e’re reducing fuel consumption a further 12%. in air transportation To meet the requirements for overnight delivery, mail and parcels must be flown 4. W  e’re developing smarter communication and logistics within Sweden. Transportation by air solutions together with customers and suppliers accounts for 4% (5) of the Group’s total carIn the Norwegian operation, PostNord has helped customers bon dioxide emissions. In 2012 PostNord to reduce their emissions by moving goods transportation entered into a partnership with the Group’s from road to rail, for example. This has been possible due to air services partner, where new radio changes in customers’ production times. ­equipment and training in eco-flying are reducing carbon dioxide emissions from Swedish domestic transportation by around 10%. © Tomas Öhrling 2014 9. We’re increasing the pace of ­environmental efforts through employee suggestions Since 2009 PostNord has had an internal environmental fund that aims to increase the pace of environmental work. The Group earmarks substantial funds for 7. We’re filling up vehicles and optimizing routes 5. We have a large fleet of electric vehicles ­environment improvement measures Constantly striving to ensure that vehicles and are upgrading our vehicles to more and gives employees the opportunity to are filled to capacity and taking the most ­environmentally efficient alternatives make s­ uggestions about how the money intelligent routes possible to decrease the Of PostNord’s vehicle fleet 5,359 are electric, correshould be invested. During the year, funds costs and environmental impact of each sponding to 27%. Electric vehicles are less expenhave been granted for purchases of shipment. sive to operate and maintain, with a lower noise small electric vehicles in Denmark level compared with conventional vehicles. Since and a project to raise employee 2013, 50 such vehicles have been in operation in awareness of energy consumption the Group’s Danish business. In 2014 two electriin Sweden. cally powered vans were commissioned in the Swedish business. For some time two electric hybrid trucks have been used in Sweden. The rest 8. We train employees in environmental issues of the electric fleet consists of small electric vehiIn 2012 a new Group-wide web-based environmental training program was introcles such as club cars, electric mopeds and electric duced, with the aim of expanding employee knowledge of PostNord’s environbicycles. The business also uses two trucks that mental impact. In Sweden and Denmark the training is compulsory for adminisrun on a combination of liquid methane and diesel, trative staff. Other parts of the organization also have the opportunity to take part along with a number of gas-powered vans. in the program, which is available in Swedish, Danish and English. 6. Our drivers drive safely and use eco-driving techniques In 2014 PostNord held a competition within the company in eco-driving, in which the drivers competed in the mail carrier car and truck categories on consuming the lowest possible amount of fuel on a given route. With training in eco-driving, fuel consumption can decrease by up to 20%. 32 PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2014 Employees Focus on future shift in skills and responsible restructuring PostNord’s market is characterized by intense competition, new customer needs and constant pressure on prices. In order to meet these challenges, new, stringent demands are made on employees and managers. In its work on HR issues, PostNord is focusing on responsible restructuring, leadership and employee commitment, health and the work environment and gender equality. One of the Nordic region’s largest employers Number of employees per category at the At the end of 2014 PostNord had 44,859 employees, of which 8,793 end of the period, refers to basic staff 2014 2013 2012 were temporary staff. The average number of employees during the Administrative personnel 5,148 5,623 6,212 year was 37,976. The majority are employed in the Nordic region and of whom men 2,743 work as mail carriers, drivers or at mail or logistics terminals. Since PostNord is a staff-intensive business with seasonal variations, many of whom women 2,405 employees are on temporary contracts. All employees at PostNord Production personnel 30,918 31,864 32,612 are entitled to join associations and other organizations, as well as to of whom men 21,345 organize trade unions. Within the Group over 99 percent of the workof whom women 9,573 force is covered by collective agreements, which are signed in each Total 36,066 37,487 38,824 respective country. Number of employees at end of period The restructuring of the Group to adapt the business to the lower mail volumes has been under way for several years and brought about 40,000 several savings programs. HR work in 2014 mainly concerned the staff 13,462 12,599 12,002 cutbacks initiated during the year and the organizational change carried out in April 2014. In total 3,785 employees left the Group during 30,000 the year. 25,362 24,888 24,064 PostNord’s ambition is to act responsibly during staff reductions 20,000 and with good collaboration with the unions. To a great extent the ­cutbacks in Sweden and Denmark are being aided by the Group’s ­various restructuring programs. Their forms differ according to 10,000 4,249 3,706 3,020 ­country but in some cases they cover extended periods of notice, 6,224 6,474 5,773 coaching, education and similar support. 0 12 13 14 Basic staff, men Basic staff, women Temporary staff, men Temporary staff, women Employee survey The main results of the 2014 survey Planned measures • Employees consider that they have little opportunity to influence their daily • Introduction of team-based approach at all workplaces. work. • Employees consider that they have little opportunity to develop within • Continue work on appraisals, including development plans, for all ­PostNord. ­employees and bolster the work on strategic workforce planning. • Employees assess their manager’s ability to involve them by showing trust, • Continued focus on setting targets, evaluation and developing managers. ­delegating and creating conditions lower than in last year’s employee survey. • Goal-oriented performance culture achieved an acceptable result. As one of • In 2014 the Group’s target setting and priorities were standardized by the Group’s priority areas, continued focus is crucial to the ability to realize the ­implementing goal contracts for managers. Formerly there had been Group strategy. ­different types of goal contracts and goal setting at different managerial ­levels. The implementation of the goal contracts began in 2014, and all teams must also have set goals by the end of 2015. PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2014 33 Employees Employee voices heard in survey Systematic work on occupational PostNord carries out an annual Group-wide employee health and safety issues survey in which employees answer questions on topics PostNord is to be an attractive and cultivating workplace, such as commitment, cooperation, satisfaction and with a safe, positive work environment and a holistic health, and the leadership of their immediate manager. approach to health. The work on the work environment The response frequency in 2014 was 84%. The outcome and health presents a challenge and is important in times for 2014 was 61 (64) for the employee index and 63 (66) of great change and restructuring of the business. for the leadership index. ­PostNord works in a structured way on the work environThe index fell in the areas of satisfaction, health and ment and systematically on leading, managing and individual commitment, although many employees are improving the work. The work on health and the work positive to the new organization and the work situation environment is governed by a Group policy and target locally, their colleagues and their immediate manager. ­figures for sick leave. Through work focused on e.g. The lower results for satisfaction and commitment are ­systematizing improvement efforts, PostNord Sweden not satisfactory but can be explained by the major received a work environment certificate (OHSAS 18001) in changes implemented in the Group and staff cutbacks in 2014. Read more about PostNord’s certificate on page 29. connection with these. The results show the importance of motivating employees and managing change in periBetter reporting on occupational injuries ods of major restructuring. The initiatives launched in Most occupational injuries in the Group are sustained in 2013 on training in change management continued production and distribution and are mostly various types during 2014 and will be intensified in 2015. Each country of falls. In recent years, PostNord has improved how acciworks in a different way on supporting and developing dents and near-accidents are reported in order to lay the leadership based on its requirements and conditions. foundations for preventing occupational injuries. Absence due to accidents, measured in the number of hours, has Dialogue on PostNord’s future been on the decline since 2010, which indicates fewer PostNord has held structured employee dialogues for severe occupational injuries. three years now to improve communication between managers and employees. This year’s dialogue focused Occupational injuries 2014 of which on increasing understanding of and commitment to the per 1 million hours worked Total deaths Group’s strategy, its new organization, PostNord’s new Sweden 45 0 brand and the introduction of a goal-oriented perforDenmark 28 0 mance culture. The 2014 employee survey showed that the employee dialogue, along with other initiatives during Norway 31 0 the year, brought results, and that more employees Finland 21 0 thought that their manager had explained how the targets Other countries 9 0 of their own team aligned with PostNord’s future direction. Absence due to work-related illnesses is not reported. Analysis of critical expertise An analysis was made in 2014 of the necessary skills to Sick leave secure the Group strategy in the short and long term. The most common causes of long-term sick leave in the New deals and services give rise to a greater need for cerGroup are illnesses and pain related to the musculoskeletain specialist skills in sales, IT, digital services, service tal system. Total sick leave in the Group has been at logistics and e-commerce. Based on this analysis, a workaround 5% for several years. In 2014 sick leave was 5.2% force plan for 2015–2020 will be drafted. A combination of and this percentage is increasing in certain units. In Sweinitiatives in recruitment, skills development and restrucden it increased from 5.1% to 5.4%. The increase is likely to turing/closure is necessary to ensure the right skills, be related to the major restructuring program that took now and in the future. place during the year. Sick leave is followed up on a quarterly basis in each unit in all countries, and PostNord has been working actively for a long time on preventing sick leave and promoting health. A team-based approach will be implemented in the Swedish business during 2015. Working in teams is an important step in improving the work environment since it gives employees greater influence over how they perform their tasks and makes it easier to lessen the burden on and help each other. This often has a positive effect on the mental and physical health of employees. PostNord’s Danish business has taken a team-based approach since 2000, resulting in positive effects in terms of participation and taking responsibility. PostNord offers training in the physical, mental and social work environment and health, along with both ­preventive rehabilitation and rehabilitation in the event of illness or occupational injury or accidents. 34 PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2014 Employees Total, for for Total, contracts for the four highest managerial levels. DevelopSick leave, % 2014 men women 2013 ments are followed up quarterly. A change in the recruitment process at the end of 2013 Sweden 5.4 4.9 6.6 5.1 means that managerial and project manager positions must Denmark 4.9 4.2 6.2 4.8 always be advertised, at least internally. Efforts are being Norway 5.8 n/a n/a 5.1 made to ensure that both genders are represented among Finland 3.5 3.0 4.3 5.2 the final candidates. Follow-up shows that this has been sucOther countries 4.9 3.2 8.5 n/a cessful in seven out of ten cases. The gender distribution of Group, total 5.2 4.6 6.5 5.0 those appointed to the managerial, leadership and project management positions advertised in 2014 was approximately 40% women/and 60% men, without using the Aim of increasing gender equality option of positive discrimination in cases of equal qualificaPostNord bases its gender equality and diversity effort on tions. The manager is responsible for gender equality in the the view that differences among people make a workrecruitment work and for gender equality and diversity work place more dynamic and attractive. PostNord’s managers in general, with support from the HR function. In 2014 the must serve as role models in this work and work actively Group HR management team followed up gender distribuon gender equality and diversity. PostNord’s owners also tion in the recruitment process each quarter. make demands regarding driving development towards a balanced gender distribution in senior executive ­positions. Gender distribution 2014 2013 2012 Around 67% of PostNord’s employees are men. In Managers 1,861 2,201 2,282 order to increase gender equality, PostNord set a target of whom women, % 29 29 29 in 2010 of ensuring that 40% of all managerial roles in the Group will be held by women in 2015. Reaching a target Number of employees 36,066 37,487 38,824 of 40/60 division in senior executive positions requires of whom women, % 33 34 35 long-term efforts to ensure a balanced gender distribution at all levels. A major challenge is the restructuring of the Company, in which PostNord is moving towards Age distribution, 2014 Total % increasing its share of the logistics business, which is a –29 4,709 13 male-dominated industry, while continuously decreasing 30–50 15,780 44 the number of managers. Despite various efforts, the 50– 15,577 43 ­proportion of women among managers has remained unchanged at 29% since the target was set in 2010. Refers to basic staff. PostNord has a relatively high Since 2014 the target figures have been part of the goal ­number of older employees. PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2014 35 Society An enabler for the business community and society PostNord plays a key role in the Nordic business community and society – every day PostNord makes it possible for ­companies, public authorities and consumers to do business and communicate with each other. A number of ­stakeholders benefit from the value PostNord generates. Postal service for all Many forums for meeting with customers PostNord is commissioned to provide the universal postal service Many of PostNord’s employees, such as mail carriers, drivers and in Sweden and Denmark, also in rural areas. The Group’s broad customer service staff, have day-to-day contact with consumers presence enables trade between companies and consumers, and corporate customers. If a customer is not completely satisfied regardless of geographical distance, which benefits parties such with a meeting or decision, they have the option of contacting as e-retailers and their customers in rural areas. In Sweden around a customer ombudsman in Sweden and an appeal body in 700,000 households in rural areas are covered by the rural mail ­Denmark. Feedback from all of these channels is instrumental in delivery service, an extended service that in addition to regular PostNord’s development. Within the Group, work on exchanging mail delivery gives consumers the option of having parcels information/experience is prioritized in order to predict, under­delivered to their door at no extra cost. stand and meet various customer needs. Putting the customer PostNord delivers large parcels and mail items via partner outservice function in contact with the sales force means that lets and distribution points in Sweden. The Group makes a num­PostNord can develop offers to customers and create new ber of demands of partner outlets, including distance, business ­business opportunities. hours, parking and disabled access, to ensure good accessibility. 12 partner outlets were closed in Sweden during 2014 due to ­closure of the business they were housed in. At the same time 14 partner outlets and 48 distribution points were added to increase accessibility. In Denmark in 2014 PostNord set up 150 new post offices with partners all over the country. Post offices function as partner outlets for PostNord services and offer the services that are most in demand, including sending and collecting parcels. PostNord’s entire service offering is still available at 20 of its own post offices. Great values for many With a long-term, stable and profitable business, opportunities are created to meet and exceed demands for environmental adaptation and social responsibility. It is not only PostNord’s owners, the Danish and Swedish States, that benefit from the Group’s financial results; employees also benefit in the form of salaries and other remuneration, as do suppliers, creditors and citizens in the countries in which ­PostNord operates, who benefit via taxes. The total value ­distributed in 2014 was SEK 40,346m as stated below: Distribution of total value, 2014 Suppliers, 52,0% Employees, 47,5% Creditors, 0,3% Society, 0,2% 36 PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2014 Society Cooperation on security issues Comprehensive distributor of community information PostNord’s stringent requirements for delivery reliability not only In connection with the year’s elections to the European Parliacover delivery of mail and parcels to the right place at the right ment and to Sweden’s Parliament, county councils and municipaltime – they also need to be in good condition. As a major player in ities, PostNord distributed ballot papers and information from communications services, the Group also has a responsibility political parties. Attention was drawn to this fact and it was regarding information security in the form of handling personal ­questioned in forums including social media by recipients who data and sensitive private information. did not wish to receive certain types of political information. Increases in fraud, particularly forged identity cards being The universal postal obligation means that PostNord is the used when collecting mail and parcels, demand a great deal from only player that reaches all households with community informaPostNord’s processes and procedures in terms of security. As tion. This information also reaches households who have opted fraud has often already taken place before collection, PostNord is out of receiving advertising by post. PostNord’s major distribution driving, for example, preventing actions for better customer and capacity and special status entail great responsibility, and the order controls in companies and of State supervision as well as Group does not discriminate against senders or mail items action programs. ­provided that their content is legal. The number of products of high value in the logistics flow is The tone of the debate put pressure on mail carriers in their increasing, which is making demands on security in facilities and work environment. PostNord has well-developed work environvehicles. PostNord’s overall program for security guarantees uniment and safety procedures, and the safety of mail carriers always form and customized security and quality in all of the Group’s comes first. To facilitate the work of mail carriers, briefings are deliveries. The program is revised internally each year. held in the workplaces prior to delivery of sensitive material. Blocking functions for certain goods, personal alarm ­equipment, special proprietary locks and alarms in vehicles are examples of preventive measures. PostNord works on a continuous basis in close dialogue with public authorities and trade organizations on reviewing and adapting the ability to maintain deliveries in the event of disruptions and downtime of various forms. PostNord’s program for business continuity management complies with the ISO 22301 standard. Managing personal data constitutes a major part of PostNord’s services. For example, personal data is used for sorting and delivering mail items or when sending out invoices on behalf of customers. PostNord also manages the personal data of its employees. During the year a new policy for information security was established, complying with the ISO 27000 standard. Together with a forthcoming EU regulation, which aims to protect sensitive private information, this policy constitutes a key component of the Group’s management of information and sensitive private information In 2014 no complaints were received from public authorities or other bodies regarding how personal data was managed, and no known cases of identified leaks, theft or loss of personal data have occurred. PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2014 37 Suppliers Focus on suppliers for greater sustainability Every year, PostNord procures goods and services for significant amounts. This means that the Group’s supplier chain is an important part of its work on sustainability. Nordic supplier base Influence through supplier requirements Each year PostNord’s Nordic business purchases goods By making demands on its business partners, PostNord and services for almost SEK 18 billion, of which around can play a part in driving various industries towards susSEK 3 billion concern invoiced statutory pensions and tainability. The basic requirements made of suppliers are similar costs. The largest purchases are made in the summarized in PostNord’s Code for Suppliers. The Code ­categories of transportation (mainly road but also air), makes demands in areas such as the environment, labor financial services and real estate (mainly investments legislation, human rights and anti-corruption. and rental contracts). Around 95% of the purchases are Also, where necessary, PostNord makes demands made from Nordic suppliers. Other purchases are mainly specific to products or services as a complement to the made from Germany and the United Kingdom, but also Code for Suppliers. As a rule, demands are also made from a number of other countries, although the scope regarding financial stability. In 2015 PostNord intends to of this is small. implement a self-evaluation scheme for suppliers. The In many cases PostNord’s suppliers based in the aim is to gain insight into the way suppliers work with ­Nordic region have subcontractors in countries outside the issues included in the PostNord Code for Suppliers. the Nordic region. For example, promotional clothing and certain IT services are purchased via subcontractors Updated Code for Suppliers in Asia. PostNord has updated its Code for Suppliers based on the requirements in the Code of Conduct (see page 39). The Risk assessment of suppliers updated Code will take customer sustainability requirePostNord works on identifying the risk level of the Group’s ments more clearly into consideration. Implementation suppliers to increase the risk awareness in the Group. of he updated Code for Suppliers will begin during 2015. The review takes into consideration risks related to the The Code is to be signed by all business partners from environment, working conditions, human rights and whom PostNord makes purchases for more than anti-corruption, as well as to the industry and geography. SEK 100,000 per year. It also requires suppliers to take The great majority of suppliers (from whom PostNord reasonable responsibility for their subcontractors’ complipurchase volume is over SEK 1m annually) are assessed ance with the Code. The updated Code for Suppliers will to be low or medium risk. In all Group-wide tenders be available at www.postnord.com. ­carried out during the year, fundamental sustainability requirements were made linked to areas such as the Audited purchasing process ­environment, quality, labor legislation and human rights. The year’s internal audit of the purchasing process from a sustainability perspective focused on the positive aspects Influence of the supplier chain of the current work on risk classification of suppliers and PostNord has identified the transportation sector as a risk audits in the transportation category. However, the audit industry in terms of sustainability, particularly concerning highlighted the need for clearer methods and organizaenvironment and working conditions. During the year, tion for managing and following up on the supplier chain. attention were devoted to the application of rules regardMeasures will be taken in 2015. ing cross-border transportation in Sweden and Denmark. No breaches of the law were observed, but PostNord has attention on issues regarding working conditions in the industry and carries out regular audits on transportations to ensure that the Group’s requirements are being met in all operations. As a rule, PostNord conducts competitive tenders even when there is no legal requirement to do so. According to the regulations for tenders, a local supplier may not be given preferential treatment, for example; instead, all suppliers must be able to submit bids on equal terms, which may have a negative effect on the local ­community. 38 PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2014 Compliance Governance to ensure responsible operations and compliance Acting responsibly is a requirement if PostNord is to continue to create value for its owners and ensure continued confidence in the Group. Naturally, as a minimum requirement, PostNord must comply with applicable legislation, regulations and general rules in the industry. In addition to this, PostNord applies several external regulatory frameworks that are not statutory, for example the UN Global Compact. Thus, the Group supports and pledges to conduct its activities in accordance with the ten principles in the areas of human rights, labor, the environment and anti-corruption. Code of Conduct ­ onduct. The rules will be supplemented by supporting C In 2014 the Board adopted the first Group-wide Code of information and internal training offered on a broad basis Conduct. It contains rules for how the Group and all its at ­PostNord. employees should act in the areas of sustainable enterTypically, purchasers and salesmen are groups prise that are most important to PostNord. Ultimate that more easily may become involved in corruption. responsibility for compliance lies with PostNord managePostNord has for some time offered training aimed at ment, but all employees are responsible for following these groups, e.g. in corruption legislation. applicable rules, both legislation and other mandatory external and internal rules. PostNord’s managers are Competition on equal terms responsible for acting as role models and ensuring that Effective competition on equal terms is a key component their employees are aware of and understand the rules of a well-functioning economy. The Code of Conduct that apply to the business. thus emphasizes how important it is to comply with During the year the Code of Conduct was communi­PostNord’s separate compliance program regarding cated throughout the business via information to manag­competition law. ers, on the Group intranet and through theme based articles in the staff magazine. It was also supplemented by General compliance work separate discussion material. The Code of Conduct will During the year PostNord’s management decided to also be communicated to PostNord’s business partners introduce a new Group-wide program for compliance. and mentioned when new staff are appointed and. In The program includes a framework for internal goverorder to ensure knowledge of its content, it will be nance documents that concretize the Code of Conduct. addressed in the annual appraisals. The Code of Conduct It aims to create a safety margin in relation to applicable is available in eight languages and can be accessed at legislation and provide security for employees in avoiding www.postnord.com. legislative breaches. It will initially cover five separate ­programs for compliance on the environment, anti-­ Anti-corruption corruption, security/information security, competition PostNord wishes to be a good community player, which is law and procurement law. A review of existing programs why it is particularly important that the business is charhas been initiated. acterized by good business ethics. PostNord has a zero tolerance approach to corruption. In the Code of Conduct Stronger follow-up there are rules regarding handling conflicts of interest, Compliance at PostNord is for example followed up via sponsoring and partners, and suppliers. All forms of marPostNord’s special reporting procedure (whistleblower), ket activities and business entertainment must comply which allows anonymous reports to be made in the event with generally accepted principles and applicable indusof suspicions of certain types of violations. The system is try practice, provided that these involve more stringent available via postnord.com. requirements than those set out in law. In 2014 PostNord was not subject to any judgements In 2014 it was also decided that a separate compliance or decisions by public authorities in which breaches program for anti-corruption should be introduced. As a of legislation on the part of PostNord were observed. consequence of this, current internal rules for preventing PostNord was not subject to any fines due to breach of corruption have been reviewed. The new rules will be environmental legislation or other mandatory external Group-wide rules, based on the OECD’s Guidelines for regulations in the environmental area. The same applies Multinational Enterprises, Transparency International’s to the fields of corruption and competition law. Business Principles for Countering Bribery, UK Bribery Act Guidance and the Swedish Code of Business PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2014 39 Measurement and ­calculation methods Measurement and calculation methods Sustainability reporting follows the Global Reporting Initiative’s (GRI) G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines, Core. Principles and delimitations Rail The reporting covers all of PostNord’s operations unless Only the Swedish and Norwegian operations use otherwise stated below. rail transportation to any great extent. All rail transportation in Sweden is eco-labeled with Bra Miljöval (Good Environment ­Environmental Choice). Rail transportation in Norway PostNord follows the Greenhouse Gas Protocol when uses fossil-free electricity. ­calculating emissions. Where environmental data is concerned, in addition to the Nordic operations (equivalent Ferry to around 95% of the Group’s net sales), the Strålfors busiOnly the Danish operation uses ferry transportation to ness outside the Nordic region is also included. The busiany great extent. Information on executed transportation ness within Direct Link is not included in the calculations. is registered in the transportation administration system Svensk Adressändring AB does not have a significant and emissions are calculated in tonnes/km. environmental impact and is not included in the Emissions factors: ­environmental data. Denmark Danish Ministry of Transport, TEMA 2010 Emissions The distribution between reported categories is not Premises directly comparable with Sustainability Reports published Emissions factors for district heating in Sweden have been in previous years due to the transition to GRI G4. updated historically due to adjustments in measurement The long-term environmental target for PostNord is methods. to decrease carbon dioxide emissions by 40% by 2020, Emissions factors for electricity have been updated histaking 2009 as the base year. The base year has been torically due to adjustments in measurement methods for selected because 2009 was the year of the merger the Nordic residual mix. between Posten AB and Post Danmark A/S. Electricity purchased in Sweden is eco-labeled with Bra Miljöval (Good Environmental Choice) and in Denmark it Transportation is largely wind generated. This electricity is assumed to Road have no carbon dioxide emissions since only the usage CO2 emissions are calculated based on the amount of phase is included in the reporting. For other electricity, fuel purchased or distance driven and type of vehicle. carbon dioxide emissions are calculated based ­Calculations based on subcontractor costs are also used on ­emissions factors from references given below. when required. Emissions factors: Emissions factors: Denmark Denmark Electricity Danish Energy Agency CO2 Danish Energy Agency District heat Danish Energy Agency Other gases Danish Ministry of Transport, TEMA 2010 Other Nordic Other Nordic Electricity Swedish Energy Markets Inspectorate CO2 Swedish Petroleum and Biofuel Institute and Energi Försäljning Sverige (SPBI) Heating Statistics Sweden (SCB) Other gases NTM, Network for Transport Measures Gas Swedish Environmental Protection Agency Air Poland, France, PostNord purchases air transportation externally for United Kingdom GHG Protocol ­operations in Sweden and Denmark. PostNord did not use air transportation in Finland or Norway during the Emissions intensity year. The Swedish operation receives data from suppliers CO2/mail item entails the handling of priority mail, Värde, on amount of fuel and distances. The Danish operation Varubrev, Magasinpost, Posttidning A (newspaper/periodregisters executed transportation in a transportation ical, priority delivery) and daily newspapers in Sweden administration system and emissions are calculated and Denmark. Emissions include own transportation and based on tonnes/km. Foreign air transportation is not direct heat consumption (Scope 1), heat and electricity included in the calculations. (Scope 2) and transportation by subcontractors (Scope 3). Emissions factors: CO2/parcel entails handling in the Swedish and Danish parcel networks. Emissions include own transportation Denmark Danish Ministry of Transport, TEMA 2010 and direct heat consumption (Scope 1), heat and electricSweden Swedish Environmental Protection ity (Scope 2) and transportation by subcontractors Agency (Scope 3). 40 PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2014 Measurement and ­calculation methods Employees Corporate image In addition to the Nordic businesses (corresponding to Corporate image is a survey conducted by external comaround 98% of the Group’s average number of employpany TNS SIFO. The survey is based on a measurement ees), employee data also entails Strålfors’ operations whereby approximately 400 consumers per week ­outside the Nordic region. (200 in Sweden and 200 in Denmark) answer questions on how they perceive the (Swedish) Posten or Post Average number of employees ­Denmark brands. The survey is comprised of five key The total number of paid employee hours divided by questions that, together, form an index. The total result the standard number of hours for a full-time employee. is a weighted result for Posten in Sweden and Post ­Denmark (63% Posten in Sweden, 37% Post Denmark). Number of employees Basic staffing concerns all fulland part-time regular Customer value employees. Basic staffing must meet the need for staff Since 2011, the customer value index (CVI) has been during “normal” production flows. Temporary staff covers ­PostNord’s monitoring tool for regularly following up “peaks” in production; for example during Christmas or ­customer satisfaction and the customer perceptions of vacation periods. the business. Measurements are carried out twice a year and include all PostNord country organizations, with a Sick leave focus on the Nordic countries. PostNord Strålfors also Sick leave in relation to regular, contracted working time, includes business outside the Nordic region. The key ratio reported as a percentage. The Group’s total sick leave is consists of three overall satisfaction questions. The three weighted based on the number of employees in the questions were previously found in both the KTA (Post ­various countries. Sick leave comprises absence due to Denmark) and the NKI Customer Satisfaction Index ­illness when employees themselves are sick. Regular, con(Posten in Sweden) and are also used in many external tracted working hours cover the time of both employees measurements such as the Swedish Quality Index (SKI), paid by the hour and temporary staff. Regular working Danish Quality Index (DKI) and the European Perforhours cover hours worked, sick leave, vacations, parental mance Satisfaction Index (EPSI), which also allows for leave and care for sick children and other paid leave. external benchmarking. Occupational injuries Quality Registered occupational injuries in relation to hours Quality: 1st class mail worked (does not include injuries sustained during Swedish External Monitoring (SWEX) and Danish External work-related travel). Minor injuries (first aid level) are also Monitoring (DEX) are two independent external quality included in the report. Calculations are based on the total measurements that continuously gage the share of 1st number of hours worked, irrespective of type of employclass mail that is delivered on time from customer to ment. The injury ratio is calculated as the total number of ­customer. Measurements are conducted by means of a injuries per 1,000,000 hours worked. Occupational injustatistically assured test mail operation that meets the ries are registered in System C2 and handled in Sweden requirements set forth in EN standard 13850. The results and Denmark by the person’s immediate manager. In of the two measurements are weighted together into a Norway they are handled in LIS (Ledelsesoch informaGroup-wide outcome based on mail volume in each tionssystemet – the management and information syscountry. tem). There is no special registration system in Finland, why reporting is done on special forms and compiled in Quality: parcels a health and safety commission. Statistics on reported The production systems in Sweden (LUPP) and Denmark occupational injuries can be retrieved from the systems (GTT) are two independent systems that measure the and compilation and sorted into various categories such proportion of parcels delivered on time from first producas falls, crushing and traffic injuries. The duty to record tion scanning to the customer. Test products are occupational injuries is made very clear. weighted according to MyPack, Postpaket and DPD ­Företagspaket 16:00 for Sweden and Erhvervspakker, Employee index (MIX) ­PrivatPakker and Postpakker for Denmark. The results of the Group’s employee surveys are comSince the two measurements are not directly comparapiled in an employee index (MIX). Surveys are conducted ble, this is done in two separate measurements. PostNord in cooperation with an external party, are anonymous and is continuing work initiated in 2013 by gradually harmoare analyzed by a partner independent of the Group. nizing measurements via a system known as CEM. ­PostNord will then get a joint Nordic report on Leadership index (LIX) the ­delivery quality for parcels based on the MyPack, The results of the Group’s employee surveys are also ­PallEtt and DPD products. compiled in a leadership index (LIX). LIX measures levels of employee satisfaction with their immediate manager, Suppliers the degree to which employees believe their managers Data covers PostNord’s Nordic operations, with the live up to PostNord’s leadership criteria: deliver, involve, ­exception of PostNord Strålfors. take responsibility and clarify. PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2014 41 GRI index GRI Index PostNord’s sustainability report for 2014 follows the Global Reporting Initiative’s (GRI) G4 guidelines. It covers all key principles in the UN’s Global Compact and describes sustainability issues essential to the Group and its stakeholders. Global Compact GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES Section, page Comment (principle ­number) Strategy and analysis G4-1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the President & Group CEO statement, pages 4–5, Strategy, 1–10 ­organization about the relevance of sustainability to the organizapages 8–9 tion and the organization’s strategy for addressing sustainability. Organizational profile G4-3 Name of organization Inside cover G4-4 Primary brands, products and services Pages 1, 10, 14–15 G4-5 Location of headquarters Inside cover, page 1 G4-6 Number of countries and names of those in which the Page 1 and Note 4, page 67 ­organization has significant operations G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form Page 1 and Corporate Governance Report, page 45 G4-8 Markets, (including geographic breakdown, sectors served The businesses, pages 17–25 and types of customers and beneficiaries) G4-9 The scale of the organization, including total number of Page 1, Note 4, page 67, Note 5, page 68–69 Statement ­employees, operations, net sales and capitalization of financial position, page 58 G4-10 Number of employees per contract, gender, region and Employees, pages 33–35 and Note 5, pages 68–69 6 division into permanent and temporary employees G4-11 Percentage of total employees covered by collective Employees, pages 33 3 bargaining agreements G4-12 Description of the organization’s supplier chain Suppliers, page 38 G4-13 Changes during the reporting period regarding the Corporate governance, page 45, Note 31, page 86 ­organization’s size, structure, ownership, or its supply chain G4-14 Handling of the precautionary approach or principle Environment, page 31 7 G4-15 External sustainability principles and initiatives that the President & Group CEO statement, page 5, ­organization supports ­Corporate governance, page 46 G4-16 Memberships of associations, industry organizations and PostNord is a member of relevant ­advocacy organizations employer organizations, such as: Norway: Næringslivets Hoved­ organisasjon(NHO) and trade association NHO Logistikk og Transport Sweden: Almega and ­Transportgruppen Denmark: Dansk Industri Finland: Finnish Industries Identified material aspects and boundaries G4-17 Entities included in the report Measurement and calculation methods, page 40 G4-18 Process for defining the report content Stakeholder section, pages 27–29 1–10 G4-19 Material aspects identified Materiality assessment, pages 28–29 G4-20 The aspect boundary for each material aspect within Materiality assessment, pages 29 the ­organization G4-21 The aspect boundary for each material aspect outside Materiality assessment, pages 29 the ­organization G4-22 Effect of any restatements of information provided in Measurement and calculation methods, page 40 previous reports G4-23 Changes from previous reporting periods in the scope Materiality assessment, pages 28–29, and aspect boundaries Measurement and calculation methods, page 40 Stakeholder engagement G4-24 List of stakeholder groups Stakeholders, page 27 G4-25 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with Stakeholders, page 27 whom to engage G4-26 Approach to stakeholder engagement Stakeholders, page 27 G4-27 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through Stakeholders, page 27 ­stakeholder engagement Report profile G4-28 Reporting period Inside cover G4-29 Date of most recent previous report Inside cover G4-30 Reporting cycle Inside cover G4-31 Contact points Inside cover G4-32 Reporting option and content Measurement and calculation methods, page 40, and pages 42–43 G4-33 Policy and current practice for external assurance Assurance Report, page 44 Governance G4-34 Governance structure, including committees and Board PostNord’s sustainability work, page 28, ­responsibility for economic, environmental and social ­Corporate ­Governance Report, pages 45–46 ­performance Ethics and integrity G4-56 Values, principles, standards and norms of behavior, Compliance, page 39 1–10 e.g. Code of Conduct 42 PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2014 GRI index Global Compact SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES Section, page Comment (principle number) Economic – Economic performance G4-DMA Disclosures on management approach Page 29, Corporate governance, page 45 ff G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed Society, page 36 Environmental – Emissions 7, 8, 9 G4-DMA Disclosures on management approach Page 29, Environment, pages 30–32 No climate compensation has occurred. PostNord is affected by local regulation in the area of emissions, e.g. ban on studded tires on certain streets and in ­certain environmental zones G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (scope 1) Environment, page 30, Measurement and ­calculation methods, page 40 G4-EN16 Energy indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (scope 2) Environment, page 30, Measurement and calculation methods, page 40 G4-EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (scope 3) Environment, page 30, Measurement and calculation methods, page 40 G4-EN18 Greenhouse gas (GHG) Emissions intensity Environment, page 31, Measurement and calculation methods, page 40 G4-EN19 Reduction in greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions Targets, page 12, Environment, page 30 G4-EN21 Other significant air emissions Environment, page 30, Measurement and calculation methods, page 40 Environmental – Compliance 7, 8, 9 G4-DMA Disclosures on management approach Page 29, Environment, page 31 G4-EN29 Fines for non-compliance with environmental laws Compliance, page 39 Environmental – Supplier environmental assessment 7, 8, 9 G4-DMA Disclosures on management approach Page 29, Suppliers, page 38 G4-EN32 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using Suppliers, page 38 ­environmental criteria Social – Supplier human rights assessment 1–6 G4-DMA Disclosures on management approach Page 29, Suppliers, page 38 G4-HR10 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using Suppliers, page 38 Read more in PostNord’s Code for human rights criteria Suppliers: www.postnord.com/ Social – Labor practices and decent work – 6 Occupational health and safety G4–DMA Disclosures on management approach Page 29, Employees, page 34 G4-LA6 Accidents, occupational injuries and sick leave Targets, page 12, Employees, page 34, Note 23, page 75 The distribution between men and women is available for ­Sweden and Finland but not for the Group in total – which is why the distribution is not stated in this report Social – Labor practices and decent work – 1–6 Diversity and equal opportunities G4-DMA Disclosures on management approach Page 29, Employees, page 35 G4-LA12 Gender distribution and age categories of all employees Targets, page 12, Employees, page 35 and managers Social – Labor practices and decent work – 10 Supplier assessment for labor practices G4-DMA Disclosures on management approach Page 29, Suppliers, page 38 G4-LA14 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using labor Suppliers, page 38 practices criteria Social – Society – Anti-corruption G4-DMA Disclosures on management approach Page 29, Compliance, page 39 G4-SO5 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken Compliance, page 39 Social – Society – Anti-competitive behavior G4-DMA Disclosures on management approach Page 29, Compliance, page 39 G4-SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior Compliance, page 39 Social – Society – Compliance G4-DMA Disclosures on management approach Page 29, Compliance, page 39 G4-SO8 Non-compliance with laws Compliance, page 39 Social – Product responsibility – Products and services labeling G4-DMA Disclosures on management approach Page 29, Society, page 36 G4-PR5 Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction Targets, page 12, Measurement and calculation ­methods, page 41 Social – Product responsibility – Customer privacy G4-DMA Disclosures on management approach Page 29, Society, page 37 G4-PR8 Complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy Society, page 37 Global Compact Additional material sustainability issues for PostNord Section, page Comment (principle ­number) Delivery quality Targets, page 12, The business, pages 18 and 21 Customer complaints Society, page 36 Overnight delivery Targets, page 12, The business, pages 18 and 21 Sustainable product solutions Environment, page 31 Accessibility Society, page 36 Delivery reliability Society, page 37 Impact on local communities Society, page 36 Responsible restructuring Targets, page 12, Employees, page 33 Employee confidence in management Targets, page 12, Employees, page 33 PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2014 43 Assurance Report Assurance Report Auditor’s Limited Assurance Report on PostNord AB’s Sustainability Report To PostNord AB Introduction consists of making inquiries, primarily of persons responWe have been engaged by the Board of Directors of sible for the preparation of the Sustainability Report, and ­PostNord to undertake a limited assurance engagement applying analytical and other limited assurance proceof PostNord’s Sustainability Report for the year 2014. dures. The procedures performed in a limited assurance ­PostNord has defined the scope of the Sustainability engagement vary in nature from, and are less in scope Report on the inside cover. than for, a reasonable assurance engagement conducted in accordance with IAASB’s Standards on Auditing and Responsibilities of the Board of Directors Quality Control and other generally accepted auditing and the Executive Management for the standards in Sweden. Consequently, the procedures ­Sustainability Report ­performed do not enable us to obtain assurance that we The Board of Directors and the Executive Management would become aware of all significant matters that might are responsible for the preparation of the Sustainability be identified in a reasonable assurance engagement. Report in accordance with the applicable criteria, as Accordingly, we do not express a reasonable assurance explained on page 42 in the Sustainability Report, that conclusion. are the parts of the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines Our procedures are based on the criteria defined by (published by The Global Reporting Initiative (GRI)) that the Board of Directors and the Executive Management as are applicable to the Sustainability Report, as well as the described above. We consider these criteria suitable for accounting and calculation principles that the Company the preparation of the Sustainability Report. has developed. This responsibility also includes the interWe believe that the evidence we have obtained is nal control relevant to the preparation of a Sustainability ­sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our Report that is free from material misstatements, whether ­conclusion below. due to fraud or error. Conclusion Responsibilities of the auditor Based on the limited assurance procedures we have Our responsibility is to express a conclusion on the ­performed, nothing has come to our attention that ­Sustainability Report based on the limited assurance causes us to believe that the Sustainability Report is not ­procedures we have performed. prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the We conducted our limited assurance engagement criteria defined by the Board of Directors and Executive in accordance with RevR 6 Assurance of Sustainability Management. Reports issued by FAR. A limited assurance engagement Stockholm, March 3, 2015 KPMG AB Helene Willberg Torbjörn Westman Authorized Public Accountant Expert Member of FAR 44 PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2014 Corporate Governance Report Corporate Governance Report Well-functioning corporate governance is one of the requirements in terms of generating long-term value for shareholders and other stakeholders and to ensure the fulfillment of its universal postal service obligations on commercial grounds. This Corporate Governance Report has been prepared in accordance with the Swedish Companies Act, the Annual Accounts Act and the Swedish Code of Corporate Governance. Shareholder structure The Company’s external auditor is selected by the AGM PostNord AB (publ), corporate identity number 556771and examines the Annual Report and Consolidated 2640, is a Swedish corporation owned 40% by the Danish ­Financial Statements, the Board’s and President and State and 60% by the Swedish State. Votes are allocated Group CEO’s administration and produces an auditor’s 50/50 between the states. PostNord AB is the parent report. PostNord’s internal audit function evaluates the company of PostNord Group. Company’s internal governance and control. The Group’s operational structure differs from its legal Governance structure structure. As a main principle, organization and goverThe main decision-making bodies at PostNord are the nance are based on the operational structure. Postal Annual General Meeting (AGM), the Board of the Directors consessions, however, are tied to the legal structure; and the President and Group CEO assisted by the Group accordingly, formal responsibility for compliance with the Executive Team. conditions of the licenses follows the legal structure. The shareholders nominate the Chair of the Board and other Board members, propose directors’ fees and New organizational structure in 2014 nominate the AGM chair and an external auditor. The Under the new matrix organization introduced on March 31, AGM is PostNord’s highest decision-making body. 2014, business activities are integrated within each country, The Board of Directors has the overall responsibility whereupon the country organizations have overall responfor the organization and administration of the company sibility for the entire product and service portfolio, as well as through continuous monitoring and control of operations. for sales in each country region. Along with the developed The Chair of the Board leads the Board’s work. The Audit brand structure, the new organization further highlights and Remuneration Committees assist the Board in its work. PostNord’s profile to its customers as a Nordic logistics PostNord’s President and Group CEO is responsible player. for and leads the day-to-day management of the Group based on the Board’s guidelines and instructions. The President and Group CEO and Group Executive Team President and Group CEO is assisted by the Group The Board of Directors is responsible for appointing and dis­Executive Team. missing the President and Group CEO. The CEO appoints Danish State Swedish State AGM Board of Directors Audit Committee External auditor Remuneration Committee Internal auditor President & Group CEO Finance Communication Legal affairs HR IT/BIS Strategy Technical & Infrastructure PostNord PostNord PostNord Sweden Denmark Norway & Finland Business area Mail & Communication Business area Logistics e-commerce & Corporate Clients PostNord Strålfors PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2014 45 Corporate Governance Report and is assisted by the Group Executive Team. The relationship between the Board of Directors and the CEO is reguInternal and external regulations lated by the Board’s rules of procedure and the instructions PostNord is affected by a number of internal and external regulations, including: to the CEO. The CEO is accountable to the Board for the day-to-day operation of the business and responsible for External regulations: executing the strategic direction determined by the Board. • The Swedish Companies Act, the Annual Accounts Act and the Swedish Code Alongside the Board, the Group Executive Team is the of Corporate Governance. Group’s decision-making body and is jointly responsible for • The Swedish State’s ownership policy and guidelines for state-owned compaensuring that the Group’s business is developed in line with nies and the Danish State’s ownership principles (the State as shareholder). the strategic direction established by the Board of Directors. • NASDAQ Stockholm’s regulations for issuers. The CEO leads the work of the Group Executive Team. • International Financial Reporting Standards, IFRS. • UN Global Compact. Annual General Meeting Under the terms of the Swedish Companies Act, the AGM Postal regulations: is the company’s highest decision-making body. The • The UPU Convention, the EU’s Postal Directive and national legislation and Swedish Ministry of Enterprise and Innovation and the directives in Sweden (e.g. the Postal Services Act and the Postal Ordinance) Danish Ministry of Transport vote on behalf of the Swedand Denmark (e.g. Order on conveyance by post and postal services). ish and Danish States, respectively, at PostNord’s Annual General Meeting. Each State nominates four Board memInternal rules and regulations bers. The AGM appoints a Board and auditor, along with • The articles of association, rules of procedure of the Board (including deciding on how to distribute earnings, discharging the ­instruction for the President and Group CEO) and the Audit and Remuneration Board and CEO from liability, and making decisions on Committees’ rules of procedure other matters as set out in legislation or the Company’s • Delegated authorities for PostNord AB. articles of association. • Code of Conduct and Group policies. The AGM must be held no later than April 30 in accor• Operational governance. dance with the owner policy of the Swedish State. Notice • Framework for internal governance and control of financial reporting. of the Annual General Meeting is sent by mail to the • Guidelines for determining terms of employment for senior executives. shareholders and is advertised in the daily press, through information in the Annual Report and on the Group website. Members of the Swedish and Danish Parliaments and Responsible enterprise the general public are invited to attend and ask questions at the AGM. In addition to the law, PostNord must comply with Swedish State ownership policy and guidelines for state-owned businesses. This means, among other things, that 2014 Annual General Meeting PostNord must be a role model in terms of responsible enterprise, including ensuring The 2014 AGM was held on April 23, 2014. The AGM compliance with the Swedish Code of Corporate Governance, the OECD’s Guidelines adopted the Group’s and Parent Company’s income statefor Multinational Enterprises (oecd.org), the UN’s Guiding Principles on Businesses ment and balance sheet, distribution of earnings accordand Human Rights (ohchr.org) and the UN’s Global Compact (unglobalcompact.org). ing to the Board’s proposal (dividend of SEK 128.8m PostNord signed the Global Compact in 2010. The Global Compact is based on (103.0) to shareholders) and the Board of Directors and ten principles, which are based on the UN Universal DeclaPresident and Group CEO were discharged from liability ration of Human Rights (un.org), the ILO Declaration on for the 2013 financial year. The AGM also decided on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work (ilo.org), the guidelines for remuneration to senior executives and Rio Declaration on Environment and Development (unep. remuneration to Board members and the auditor. org), and the UN Convention against Corruption (unodc. Jens Moberg was re-elected as chair of the Board. The org). Because PostNord has issued bonds on the NASDAQ AGM re-elected Mats Abrahamsson, Stockholm Exchange, it must also follow its regulations Gunnel Duveblad, Christian Ellegaard, Sisse Fjelsted established for its issuers. These regulations are reflected Rasmussen, Torben Janholt and Anitra Steen as Board in PostNord’s Code of Conduct. members. Magnus Skåninger was elected as a new Board member. Accounting firm KPMG AB was re-elected as auditor through the close of next year’s AGM, with authoDeviations from the Swedish Code of Corporate Governance rized public accountant Helene Willberg as auditor in PostNord applies the Swedish Code of Corporate Governance, with the exception charge. The AGM also decided on the financial targets of the following Code provisions: for PostNord; see page 12. The complete minutes of the • Chapter 2 requirement for a nominating committee. PostNord does not have a Annual General Meeting are published at nominating committee, as the nomination and appointment of Board members www.postnord.com. is performed in accordance with the principles agreed upon by the owners. Nominations are made in cooperation between the owners. Extraordinary General Meeting 2014 • Chapter 4.5 requirement for Board members’ independence from owners. At an Extraordinary General Meeting on August 25, 2014 The objective of the rule is to protect minority owners (with a non-controlling the decision was made to merge PostNord Logistics AB interest). However, protection for minority owners is not relevant to the with Posten Meddelande AB, which in this connection ­governance of PostNord. PostNord only has two owners and an account changed their names to PostNord Sverige AB. The aim of the independence of the Board members is thus of no relevance. was to simplify the Group’s legal structure, and the merger was implemented on January 1, 2015. Deviation from the Swedish State’s guidelines for external reporting PostNord applies the Swedish State’s guidelines for external reporting, with one 2015 Annual General Meeting exception: PostNord’s 2015 AGM will take place on April 23, 2015 at • In 2014 PostNord deviated from the requirements stated in the Swedish State’s PostNord’s Group office at Terminalvägen 24, Solna, guidelines on the time of publishing the year-end report for 2013, quarterly ­Sweden. report for Q1 and H1 report. PostNord has revised its processes and will be issuing its financial reports in 2015 within the time frame stated in the guidelines. 46 PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2014 Corporate Governance Report Board of Directors Audit Committee The Board of Directors has overall responsibility for the The Audit Committee is tasked with preparing the Board organization and management of the Company through to perform its duties of supervising and assuring the regularly monitoring the business and ensuring appropri­quality of the Group’s financial reporting. The Committee ate organization, management, guidelines and internal supervises the effectiveness of the company’s internal control. The Board adopts strategies and targets governance and control as well as risk management and makes decisions on major investments, acquisitions ­systems and processes with regard to financial reporting. and divestment of operations. The Committee’s rules of procedure are established by the Board. The Audit Committee has no decision-making Composition of the Board power. The Board of Directors is appointed by the AGM, which The Committee also assists the owners in selecting an has determined that the Board shall be composed of auditor. The Audit Committee, in addition to reporting to eight AGM-elected Board members and no deputies. The the Board on its efforts, regularly reviews the auditor’s Board also includes three members elected by employee reports and determines whether the auditors are perorganizations and their three deputies. The Swedish forming their task independently, objectively and cost-­ State’s ownership policy prescribes that each gender shall efficiently. The Audit Committee is the principal of the have at least 40% board representation. The female/male internal audit and its monitoring of internal governance distribution of PostNord’s Board of Directors was and control, and remains apprised of internal audit 38%/62% in 2014 (ordinary members). reports. The Committee comprises at least three Board memThe Board’s work bers and meets at least four times per year. The CompaWorking methods ny’s external auditor participates in meetings at which the The Board of Directors annually adopts rules of proceannual accounts, annual report and auditor’s report are dure. These regulate matters such as the Chair’s duties, presented, as well as when needed for assessment of the information to the Board of Directors and the roles and Group’s financial position. The Committee chair is responresponsibilities of the President and Group CEO and sible for regularly apprising the Board of the Committee’s Board members. There is no division of the work of the activities. Board between Board members, apart from the Audit In 2014 the Committee met on a total of six occasions. and Remuneration Committees. The topics discussed include the following: The Chair of the Board is elected by the AGM, leads • The reporting of the Group’s auditors regarding the the Board’s work and is responsible for ensuring that this year-end and interim reports and the audits of the work is well-organized and carried out effectively. This financial statements. includes the regular monitoring of the Company’s opera• Supervision of financial reporting and effectiveness tions in dialogue with the CEO and making certain that of PostNord’s internal governance and control. other Board members receive the information and docu• Supervision of risk management systems and mentation necessary to ensure high quality discussions ­processes. and Board decisions. The Chair leads evaluation of the • Evaluation of external audit. Board’s and CEO’s work. The Chair also represents the Company in issues of ownership. Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee is tasked with preparing Board meetings and issues in 2014 and presenting proposals to the Board regarding remuIn 2014 the Board met on nine occasions, including the neration and other terms of employment for corporate statutory first meeting. The CEO presented the financial management and remuneration principles for external and market situation at each Board meeting. The Board directors serving on the Boards of Group subsidiaries. The also discussed the Group’s strategy, acquisitions, employRemuneration Committee has no decision-making power. ment issues and business plan, and addressed reports The Remuneration Committee comprises at least from the Audit and Remuneration Committees and three members. The Chair of the Board of Directors chairs reports concerning internal control and financial activities the Committee. The Committee shall meet when waron a continuous basis. The company’s auditor has given ranted. The Committee chair is responsible for regularly an account of the year’s auditing activities and these apprising the Board of the Committee’s activities. issues have been discussed. Board meeting attendance 2014 Audit Committee Remuneration Member of the Board Board meetings meetings Committee meetings Jens Moberg 9/9 – 2/2 Mats Abrahamsson 9/9 – 2/2 Gunnel Duveblad 9/9 6/6 – Christian Ellegaard 9/9 6/6 – Sisse Fjelsted Rasmussen 9/9 6/6 – Torben Janholt 9/9 – 1/2 Patrik Jönsson (co-opted)1) 2/2 – Magnus Skåninger2) 7/7 3/4 – Anitra Steen 9/9 – 1/2 Lars Chemnitz 8/9 – – Ann-Christin Fällén 9/9 – – Alf Mellström 9/9 – – 1) Co-opted in anticipation of a decision at the AGM concerning the composition of the Board. 2) Elected to the Board and Audit Committee at the AGM in April 2014. PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2014 47 Corporate Governance Report In 2014 the Committee met on a total of two occasions. The Board’s report on internal control The topics discussed include the following: Governance model • Remuneration and other provisions for senior PostNord’s operational governance consists of seven ­executives. main elements. Core Group governance includes Formal • Pension provisions for senior executives. Governance, Functional Governance and Situation-­ • Specific issues regarding remuneration for members specific Governance. Together with PostNord’s Strategy of the Group Executive Team. and Plans, these determine the scope, conditions and • Evaluation of results and potential and succession direction for the Group’s operations. ­planning for senior managers. The other three elements consist of management by objectives for the Group’s senior executives, and managRemuneration at PostNord ing and running Group projects and business manageDecisions on terms of employment and remuneration for ment systems with associated certificates for quality, the President and Group CEO are made by the Board of ­environment and work environment. Directors. The Board deals with remuneration issues The management system is followed up and through the Remuneration Committee. ­evaluated, supported by the Excellence model EFQM Salaries and wages for PostNord employees shall con(European Foundation of Quality Management) and by form to market conditions. For details on remuneration external parties. The Group Executive Team is responsible for senior executives, see Note 5, Employees, personnel for implementing proposed improvement potentials. expenses and remuneration to senior executives in the consolidated financial statements. Framework Guidelines on remuneration to senior executives PostNord’s framework for internal governance and condecided on by the 2014 AGM are available in their entirety trol is based on the framework developed by the Commitat www.postnord.com under Corporate Governance. tee of Sponsoring Organisations of the Treadway ComNo material changes to the guidelines are proposed mission (COSO). The Group utilizes a “three lines of ahead of the 2015 AGM. defense” model to illustrate the way in which responsibility for internal governance and control has been orgaEvaluation of the work of the Board of Directors and nized. The first line of defense clarifies the business’s the President and Group CEO responsibility for internal governance and control and risk The Board conducts an annual evaluation of its own work. management. Management and managers in the counAreas evaluated include the manner in which important try structure, the business areas and for Group functions decisions are prepared, discussed and managed; whether are responsible for identifying and managing risks within the right issues are addressed by the Board; the integrity their respective areas of r​​ esponsibility. The second line of of supporting documentation; and how well decisions defense is made up of a number of management and and discussions are recorded in the minutes. control functions, which are responsible for supporting The Board continuously evaluates the CEO’s work the first line of defense. This takes place by producing by monitoring the business’s progress toward set targets. governance documents such as Group policies and A formal evaluation is performed once per year and is instructions, processes, methods and ways of working, ­discussed with the CEO. and training. The second line of defense must also ensure compliance and may also implement its own controls Board member remuneration and create conditions to detect and manage any risks or Remuneration for Board members was determined by errors that pass through the first line of defense. This the 2014 AGM. Remuneration for each elected Board includes Enterprise Risk Management (ERM), Internal member for the period through the next AGM is SEK Control and the Security Function. The third line of 250,000, while the Chair’s remuneration is SEK 600,000. defense is the Group Internal Audit function, the Board’s The fee for work in the Audit Committee is SEK 50,000 independent audit and control function tasked with for members and SEK 62,500 for the Chair. The fee for ­evaluating PostNord’s processes for governance, risk work in the Remuneration Committee is SEK 25,000 identification and risk control. for members and SEK 37,500 for the Chair. Board and Committee member remuneration is not paid to memControl environment bers employed by the Government Offices of Sweden. In addition to the organizational model with the three lines of defense and their responsibility for internal goverAuditors nance and control, factors such as organization, deciPostNord’s 2014 AGM appointed KPMG AB as the Compasion-making paths and authorities have been defined ny’s auditor, with authorized public accountant Helene and communicated within the Group. The Board has Willberg as auditor in charge. The auditors meet with the adopted PostNord’s Code of Conduct, which clarifies Board at least once per year and also participate in a how PostNord must comply with and implement certain number of Audit Committee meetings. In 2014 the Board fundamental legal requirements for the Group and govmet with the auditor at one (1) Board meeting. The Board erning principles and guidelines in the operations. The members have thus had the opportunity to ask the audiCode clarifies what may be expected of PostNord such tor questions. as the kind of conduct that all Group employees are to See also Note 7, Fees and reimbursement of expenses exhibit. The Code is also linked to the PostNord whistle­ to auditors. blowing system, the special reporting procedures that may be used on an anonymous basis. During the year, a document hierarchy for internal governing documents has been produced and adopted. Operational governance for the PostNord Group is an overarching 48 PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2014 Corporate Governance Report ­ ocument that describes the business and regulates aspects includd the division of duties and responsibilities in processes and routines. ing general internal division of roles and responsibilities. The subsidiThese governing documents and processes concerning reporting ary governance document and delegated authorities are linked to and financial reporting are updated by the Group’s Finance function the document. In addition to this, the document hierarchy covers when amendments are made to legislation, accounting rules, reportthe following types of governance documents in descending order: ing requirements, etc. In Sweden finance and payroll administration Code of Conduct, policies, instructions, guidelines and directions. services are outsourced. Quality is ensured through the monitoring of The Board’s work and responsibilities are governed by the Board’s internal control activities and reporting on the achievement of agreed rules of procedure. The Board of Directors is ultimately responsible service levels and quality criteria. The Group’s Finance function is for ensuring the Company has good internal governance and control. responsible for consolidated accounts and consolidated financial The Board’s rules of procedure define internal governance and control statements and for the Group’s common business system, SAP. This of financial reporting as a process through which the Board, the responsibility includes regular analyses of the financial results of coun­President and Group CEO and employees ensure beyond reasonable try organizations, the business areas and Group functions. The finandoubt that the financial reporting is reliable. The Audit Committee is cial statement and reporting process includes controls for reporting, tasked with preparing the Board to perform its duties of assuring the valuation, disclosure requirements and application of set accounting quality of the Company’s financial reporting. The Committee oversees principles. the effectiveness of the Company’s internal governance and control as well as risk management systems and processes concerning finanInformation and communication cial reporting. The work is carried out through measures including regThe Swedish State’s ownership policy specifies guidelines for external ular discussions with PostNord’s management and external auditors reporting applicable to state-owned companies. The Group’s Financial and the examination of accounting principles applied and accounting Accounting manual and supplementary internal guidelines for issues that are brought to the Committee’s attention. The duties and accounting and closing procedures are continuously updated and powers of the President and Group CEO are governed by instructions are communicated via the Group’s intranet, for example. The Board established by the Board of Directors. Decision-making authority is and Audit Committee receive and review all interim reports and the governed by delegated authorities, which are based on the delegation Group’s annual report before these are published. Information to of responsibilities established by the Board in its rules of procedure. the Group’s external stakeholders is communicated through press The delegated authorities set forth the decision-making authority delreleases and PostNord’s website. Financial reporting is also addressed egated by the President and Group CEO to the managers who report directly to the Danish and Swedish owners. to him. These managers may then further delegate their decision-making authority within their respective areas of responsibility. Follow-up Documents of importance are jointly signed by two authorized PostNord’s business activities are reported and evaluated monthly ­signatories designated by the Board. based on business objectives. PostNord’s financial situation is discussed at each Board meeting. Board committees play important Risk assessment roles in terms of remuneration, financial reporting and internal goverIn 2014, PostNord’s operations were guided by the governance model nance and control. The Audit Committee receives regular reports presented below. Risks associated with financial reporting are identifrom the Group’s external and internal auditors and follows up to fied and evaluated along with other types of risks within the frameensure that measures are taken on the basis of the auditors’ observawork of the Group’s business-wide risk management process and tions and recommendations. The Group’s companies and Group functhrough an annual self-assessments and analyses of the Group’s tions conduct an annual self-assessment of the internal governance ­various companies and units. Financial reporting risks are also dealt and control of financial reporting. Results are compiled by the Group’s with on a regular basis by the Audit Committee and the Board, which Finance function and are presented to the Audit Committee, the evaluate and monitor the management of these risks. See also Risks Board, PostNord country organizations and Group functions. In 2014, and Risk Management, page 54. portions of the self-assessment responses from the Group’s companies and units were subject to a limited review. Control activities These activities include rules covering decision-making and authorization, verification, compliance, manual and programmed controls, and Internal governance and control at PostNord Control environment Follow-up Risk assessment 3rd line of defense 2nd line of defense 1st line of defense Internal auditing Group functions Country organizations Targets for Business areas the financial reporting Information and Control activities communication PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2014 49 Board of Directors Board of Directors Jens Moberg Gunnel Duveblad Sisse Fjelsted Rasmussen Born 1962. Born 1955. Born 1967. Graduate Diploma in Business Administration. Systems Engineer. BA in Business Administration and Authorized Chair of the Board since April 2013. Board member since August 2009. Public Accountant. Chair of the Remuneration Committee since Chair of Audit Committee since 2009. Board member since April 2013. April 2013. Previous positions include CEO of EDS Northern Member of Audit Committee since April 2013. Previous experience includes positions at Europe and managerial posts at IBM. CFO/group executive of Scandinavian Tobacco IBM Denmark and subsequently at Microsoft Chair of the board of Team Olivia AB, Global Group. Previously Nordic Financial Controller for Corporation, most recently as Corporate Scanning A/S and Stiftelsen Ruter Dam. Grey Global Group. Background as auditor at Vice President. Board member of HIQ International AB and Deloitte and Arthur Andersen. Chair of the boards of Grundfos Holding, HerSweco AB. lufsholm Skole og Gods and VisioLink. Board member of Axcel and Poul Due Jensens Fond. Mats Abrahamsson Christian Ellegaard Torben Janholt Born 1960. Born 1969. Born 1946. PhD (Tech). MBA. Bachelor of Commerce. Board member since August 2009. Member Board member since April 2013. Board member since August 2009. of Remuneration Committee since 2009. Member of Audit Committee since April 2013. Member of Remuneration Committee Professor at Linköping University. Member of corporate management at Berendsince 2009. Board member of Dixma Consultant AB. sen Plc and CEO of Facility. Previously held Previous positions include CEO of ­various positions within the Berendsen Group, J Lauritzen A/S. including CEO in Denmark. Chair of the board of Otto Suenson A/S. Director of A/S United Shipping & Trading Company and Lloyd Concept Store. 50 PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2014 Board of Directors Magnus Skåninger Anitra Steen Born 1971. Born 1949. Masters degree in Political Science and Business Bachelor of Arts. Economics. Board member since April 2013. Certified European Financial Analyst (CEFA). Member of Remuneration Committee since Board member since April 2014. April 2013. Assistant undersecretary and head of the Previous positions include CEO of System­ ­Division for State-Owned Enterprises at the bolaget, Director-General of the National Tax ­Ministry of Enterprise and Innovation, Sweden Board, State Secretary at the Swedish Ministries Previous posts include Executive Director EY, of Education and Finance. Director PwC and budget department at the Chair of the boards of AB Svenska Spel, Telge ­Ministry of Finance. Inköp AB, AFA Försäkring and Iris Invest AB. Board member of Oral Care. Employee representatives Lars Chemnitz Alf Mellström Ann-Christin Fällén Born 1957. Born 1956. Born 1955. Union representative appointed by the Union representative appointed by the Union of Union representative appointed by Union of Service and Communication Service and Communication Employees (SEKO). the Union of Civil Servants (ST). ­Employees (SEKO). Board member since August 2009. Board member since May 2012. Chair of the Danish postal workers union, Employed by Posten since 1978. Employed by Posten since 1977. 3F Post. Member of the Board since January 2010. Employee representatives, deputies Peter Madsen Johan Lindholm Eigil Johannesen Born 1953. Born 1979. Born 1965. Union representative appointed by the Union of Union representative appointed by the Union of Union representative appointed by the Union Service and Communication Employees (SEKO). Service and Communication Employees (SEKO). of Civil Servants (ST). As a union representative, he represents 3F. Deputy employee representative since As a union representative, he represents HK, Deputy employee representative since April 2012. Denmark’s largest union for salaried employees. ­January 2010. Employed by Posten since 1998. Deputy employee representative since Employed by Post Denmark since 1990. ­December 2014. Employed by Post Denmark since 1983. On February 14, 2014 Jonas Iversen resigned as Board member. Patrik Jönsson, deputy director at the Ministry of Finance, was a co-opted ­member until PostNord’s 2014 AGM. PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2014 51 Group Executive Team Group Executive Team Håkan Ericsson Johanna Allert Gunilla Berg Born 1962. Born 1975. Born 1960. BSc Economics. Master of Engineering. BSc Economics. President and Group CEO since October 1, 2013. Chief Technical Officer since 2014. Member of Chief Financial Officer (CFO). Member of Group Executive Team since 2013. Group Executive Team since 2011. Member of Group Executive Team since Previous positions: President of Carlson Wagonlit Previous positions: Head of Group Operations September 29, 2014. Travel’s North and Latin American operations Development function, including Group Support Previous positions: Vice-President and CFO (after serving as President of their EMEA and & Shared Services. of the Teracom, SAS and KF Groups. Latin America operations); CEO of Loomis Cash Board member at Alfa Laval and Vattenfall. Handling, Executive Vice President at SAS, ­Managing Director of DHL European freight operation, and senior positions in the Danzas, ASG and Fraktarna logistics groups. Henning Christensen Joss Delissen Andreas Falkenmark Born 1962. Born 1963. Born 1955. Engineer. BSc Economics. Master of Laws. Head of PostNord Denmark since 2014. Chief Information Officer (CIO) since 2009. Head of Business Area PostNord Mail & Member of Group Executive Team since 2012. Member of Group Executive Team since 2009. ­Communication since 2014. Previous positions: Head of Business Area Mail Previous positions: A variety of positions at Member of Group Executive Team since 2009. Denmark; Head of Production & Transport (PRT) ­Unilever, most recently Director of Previous positions: Head of Business Area at Breve Danmark A/S; Deputy Director of Mail ­Solutions Architecture. Mail Sweden; CEO of NK Förvaltnings AB; Production & Transport at Post Denmark; CEO of Duka AB; CEO of Coop Sverige AB; and Mail Center Director at the Copenhagen and CEO of Observer Northern Europe. Post Office. Annemarie Gardshol Born 1967. Master of Engineering. Head of E-commerce & Corporate Clients and Chief Strategy Officer (CSO) since 2014. ­Member of Group Executive Team since 2012. Previous positions: Head of Group Strategy, ­executive positions at Gambro and as a management consultant at McKinsey & Company. Board member of Etac AB. 52 PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2014 Group Executive Team Finn Hansen Anders Holm Peter Kjaer Jensen Born 1956. Born 1957. Born 1969. Master of Science. Market economist. MBA. Chief HR Officer since 2013. Head of PostNord Sweden since 2014. Head of business area PostNord Logistics since Member of Group Executive Team since 2009. Member of Group Executive Team since 2014. April 1, 2014. Previous positions: Head of Business Area Mail Previous positions: Head of Posten Logistik AB in Member of Group Executive Team since 2014. Denmark, Deputy Director of Distribution, Sweden, Sales and Marketing Director at Posten Previous positions: Various managerial positions ­Deputy Director of Mail Production & Transport, Logistik AB in Sweden, and various positions at at Maersk Linje, Maersk Logistics and Damco various management positions at Post UPS, most recently as Nordic CEO. ­International A/S. Most recently Chief ­Danmark A/S. ­Transformation Officer at Damco. Kristina Lilja Per Mossberg Robin Olsen Born 1967. Born 1953. Born 1970. Master of Laws. BSc Economics. Master of Engineering; Master of Management. General Counsel and Board Secretary. Chief Communications Officer since 2009. Head of PostNord Norway & Finland since 2014. Member of Group Executive Team since Member of Group Executive Team since 2009. Member of Group Executive Team since 2014. January 1, 2015. Previous positions: Head of Corporate CommuniPrevious positions: Head of PostNord Logistics Formerly VP and legal counsel at Husqvarna and cations at Posten AB; partner at JKL AB; Execuin Norway and CEO of Tollpost Globe AS. positions as corporate lawyer or general counsel tive VP (communications) at Telia AB; Senior VP at companies including Hi3G Access (3), IFS and (information) at Trygg-Hansa SPP AB, Nobel Cybercom. Industrier and AB Bofors; and CEO of Närings­ livets EU-fakta and Näringslivets Ekonomifakta. Chair of the boards of CSR Sweden and Sveriges Kommunikatörer. Mats Johansson was acting Head of business area PostNord Logistics January 1 – March 31, 2014. Henrik Rättzén, CFO, left PostNord on May 11, 2014. From May 12, 2014 – September 28, 2014 Lena Larsson, Head of Business Control, was acting CFO. K.B. Pedersen, Executive VP and Deputy CEO , retired on December 31, 2014. Per Samuelson, Head of PostNord Strålfors, left the Group Executive Team on October 30, 2014. PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2014 53 Risks and risk management Value-creating risk management Proactive, structured risk management creates the conditions for PostNord to be able to achieve its targets and create value. Risk management is essential to the governance and control of PostNord’s operations. PostNord operates in an international market characterized by ongoRisks related to changes in market conditions ing changes in several areas. Structured preparedness is required to PostNord operates in a competitive market where market changes adapt and optimize the business in the best way and to take advanand position shifts may present challenges to PostNord’s competitive tage of opportunities while at the same time minimizing risks and advantage and profitability. 2014 has seen declining mail volumes, losses. The overarching objective of the Group’s risk management is greater competition and pressure on prices, primarily in the logistics to ensure that the risks affecting the Group’s strategy and targets are services market. identified and managed in an effective, systematic and value-creating PostNord must respond to and adapt the business to changes in way. Risk management is a continuous process that is integrated in customer behavior, changes in market demand and technological the Group’s business planning and in all operations. developments, and increased levels of digitization. These are factors that result in declining mail volumes. Coordinated public initiatives to Risk management process increase the level of digitization have already impacted the Danish The Group works continuously to identify, evaluate, manage and business, and PostNord sees a similar development for the Swedish ­follow up risks in the surrounding world and within the business. market. ­PostNord’s risk management process ensures the uniformity and The change and adaptation of PostNord’s business model genercomparability of risks, in order to prioritize decisions in line with the ates several risks of a more strategic nature, related to issues such as overriding targets, business-related decisions and external factors. cost adjustments, governance and planning in the new matrix organiPostNord strives to achieve an optimal balance between preventive zation, and development of various customer offerings. PostNord and risk-limiting measures and the transfer of risks through insurance manages these risks by analyzing the market, customers and com­ and contractual procedures, for example. petitors on a ongoing basis, working constantly on restructuring ­measures and performing strategy and business development. Risk management organization and responsibility PostNord’s Board of Directors and Group Executive Team have overall Operational risks responsibility for the Group’s risk management. Responsibility for risk PostNord is exposed to several operational risks. The most critical of management within the country organizations, business areas, Group these relate to the fulfillment of restructuring programs and cost-­ functions and subsidiaries lies with the respective managers. The saving objectives, IT delivery quality and continuity, and restructuring Group’s risk management function is responsible for developing and adaptation of personnel and organization. IT risks include internal and establishing Group-wide instructions and methods for risk and external delivery problems and disturbances that may affect the ­management. The risk management function is also responsible Group’s production, customer deliveries and PostNord’s financial for consolidating risks and reporting to PostNord’s management, reporting. Audit Committee and Board. PostNord also runs operational risks related to non-current assets, infrastructure and sustainability-related risks. PostNord’s goal is for Risk areas and risk-limiting measures high quality, efficiency, security and continuity to characterize the The most important risk areas for the Group are described below, Group’s services, deliveries and internal work. Ensuring good continualong with information on how the Group works with managing, ity and efficiency in production is a key part of the restructuring work ­controlling and limiting these risks. in the business. The work aims to maintain and improve customer satisfaction, minimize damage and loss to the assets of PostNord and its Strategic risks customers, and ensure the health and safety of employees. PostNord’s Strategic risks includes regulatory risks and risks due to changes business requires transportation and an extensive infrastructure of in market conditions. terminals, production facilities and other buildings. The business itself is energy intensive and its carbon dioxide emissions have an impact Regulatory risks on the environment. PostNord works continuously on risk analyses PostNord is commissioned to provide universal postal services in and continuity planning to ensure the Group’s ability to manage ­Sweden and Denmark, and changes to terms and/or licenses on the ­consequences of any critical events, downtime or quality issues. European or national level can have a significant impact on the Group’s strategy concerning among other things the business model, Financial risks service range and pricing. Financial risks mainly cover credit risks, refinancing risks and investAmong the regulatory risks assigned the highest priority are those ment risks. PostNord secures financing of the business partly through related to the structure of permit conditions, and the European Comthe operating cash flow and partly through the maintenance of an mission’s decision to sue the Swedish State for not following the EU’s effective capital structure that includes external financing. Financial VAT Directive regarding postal services. These risks may impact the risks over and above managing payment readiness are limited. FinanGroup’s competitive situation and its ability to fulfill the universal cial risks are managed on the basis of the finance policy adopted by ­service obligation in an efficient way under reasonable financial the Board, which was updated in 2014. ­conditions. PostNord manages these regulatory risks with external Read more about the management of financial risks in Note 29, and ­scenario analyses, a compliance program, advocacy work and page 82, about the Group’s material assessments and estimates the adaptation of the business. regarding e.g. intangible assets in Note 2, page 66, and about the ­management of pensions in Note 23, page 75. 54 PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2014 Risks and risk management Sensitivity analysis Impact on income (including derivatives), Area Variable Change SEKm Personnel risks Change in personnel expenses +/– 1 percentage point 182 Change in sick leave levels +/– 1 percentage point 116 Volume risks Volume change in physical mail +/– 1 percentage point 113 Volume change in logistics business +/– 1 percentage point 80 Interest rate risk Change in market rate of interest +/– 1 percentage point 8 Currency risk Translation exposure +/– 1 percentage point 56 Pensions See also Note 23, Pensions, page 75 Overview of risk areas and risk-limiting measures Risk exposure by risk category Examples of risk areas Examples of risk-limiting measures Strategic risks Regulatory risks. Business intelligence, compliance program and dialogue with politicians and public authorities. Changes in market conditions. Restructuring program, measures to increase efficiency, customer and competitor analysis, strategy and business development. Operational risks Risks concerning target fulfillment of Continuous adaptation and follow-up. restructuring program and cost savings. Risks concerning IT delivery and IT stability. Disruption analyses and incident reporting. Risks concerning adapting personnel and Continuity planning, including ensuring workforce ­o­­rganization. ­planning. Risks concerning facilities and infrastructure. Overview of insurance protection. Financial risks Credit risks, refinancing risks, The financial policy regulates financial risk exposure. investment risks, currency risks. ­Systematic credit evaluation and risk limits. Risk of insufficient payment readiness. Cost-savings program, capital efficiency program and securing liquidity reserves. Pension-related risks. Analysis and review of pension commitments and pension programs. Diversification of pension assets, derivative ­solutions and scenario planning. Intangible assets. Impairment testing of significant intangible assets is ­performed annually. PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2014 55 Financial statements CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 75 Note 21 – Cash and cash equivalents 57 Income statement 75 Note 22 – Interest-bearing liabilities 57 Statement of comprehensive income 75 Note 23 – Pensions 58 Statement of financial position 80 Note 24 – Other provisions 59 Statement of cash flows 81 Note 25 – Accrued expenses 60 Statement of changes in equity and deferred income 82 Note 26 – Pledged assets Notes to the consolidated and contingent liabilities financial statements 82 Note 27 – Investment commitments 61 Note 1 – Accounting principles 82 Note 28 – Statement of cash flows, interest 66 Note 2 – Material assessments 82 Note 29 – Financial risk management and and estimates financial instruments 67 Note 3 – Analysis of revenue sources 86 Not 30 – Related party transactions 67 Note 4 – Segment reporting 86 Note 31 – Acquisitions and divestments 68 Note 5 – Employees, personnel expenses and 87 Note 32 – Events after the reporting period remuneration to senior executives 88 Note 33 – Definitions 70 Note 6 – Other expenses 70 Note 7 – Fees and reimbursement PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS of expenses to auditors 89 Income statement 71 Note 8 – Depreciation and impairments 89 Statement of comprehensive income 71 Note 9 – Net financial items 89 Balance sheet 71 Note 10 – Tax 90 Statement of cash flows 71 Note 11 – Participations in associated 90 Statement of changes in equity ­companies and joint ventures 72 Note 12 – Intangible assets Notes to Parent Company 73 Note 13 – Property, plant and equipment financial statements 73 Note 14 – Leased machinery, equipment 91 Note 1 – Accounting principles and property leases 91 Note 2 – Material assessments and 74 Note 15 – Financial investments estimates 74 Note 16 – Non-current receivables 91 Note 3 – Employees and personnel expenses 74 Note 17 – Deferred tax 91 Note 4 – Fees and reimbursement of expenses 74 Note 18 – Inventories to auditors 74 Note 19 – Trade receivable 91 Note 5 – Interest income, income expenses 75 Note 20 – Prepaid expenses and similar expenses and accrued income 92 Note 6 – Holdings of shares and participations in Group companies, joint ventures and associated companies Consolidated financial statements PostNord Group Income statement SEKm Note 2014 20131) 1, 2 Net sales 39,950 39,533 Other operating income 3 632 233 Income 4 40,582 39,766 Personnel expenses 5 –18,212 –18,626 Transportation expenses –9,832 –8,953 Other operating expenses 6, 7, 24 –10,356 –9,887 Depreciation and impairments 8 –1,847 –1,648 Expenses –40,247 –39,114 Participations in the earnings of associated companies 16 10 OPERATING INCOME 351 662 Financial income 9 89 50 Financial expenses 9 –195 –258 Net financial items –106 –208 Income before tax 245 454 Tax 10 –69 –148 NET INCOME 176 306 Attributable to Parent Company shareholders 173 303 Non-controlling interests 3 3 Earnings per share, SEK 0.09 0.15 Statement of comprehensive income SEKm 2014 20131) NET INCOME 176 306 OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME Items that cannot be transferred to net income Revaluation of pension liabilities –1,682 –1,821 Change in deferred tax 370 –401 Total –1,312 1,420 Items that have been or may be transferred to net income Cash flow hedges after tax –12 Translation differences2) 237 –107 Total 225 –107 TOTAL OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME –1,087 1,313 COMPREHENSIVE INCOME –911 1,619 Attributable to Parent Company shareholders –914 1,616 Non-controlling interests 3 3 1) Restated due to adjusted report from a subsidiary, see page 60. 2) Translation differences refer to the translation of Group equity in foreign currencies. PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2014 57 Consolidated financial statements Statement of financial position SEKm Note Dec. 31, 2014 Dec. 31, 20131) 1, 2 ASSETS Goodwill 12 3,372 3,295 Other intangible assets 12 1,319 1,605 Property, plant and equipment 13, 14 9,923 9,411 Participations in associated companies and joint ventures 11 83 65 Financial investments 15, 29 257 211 Non-current receivables 16 887 1,015 Deferred tax assets 17 566 537 Total non-current assets 16,407 16,139 Inventories 18 177 226 Tax assets 367 169 Trade receivables 19 4,620 4,626 Prepaid expenses and accrued income ​20 1,289 1,526 Other receivables ​29 389 509 Current investments 15, 29 150 Cash and cash equivalents 21, 29 1,843 1,981 Assets held for sale ​13 372 390 Total current assets 9,057 9,577 TOTAL ASSETS 25,464 25,716 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Equity Capital stock 2,000 2,000 Other contributed equity 9,954 9,954 Reserves –1,692 –1,917 Retained earnings –2,275 –1,007 Total equity attributable to Parent Company shareholders 7,987 9,030 Non-controlling interests 4 4 TOTAL EQUITY 7,991 9,034 LIABILITIES Non-current interest-bearing liabilities 22, 29 4,577 4,315 Other non-current liabilities 59 82 Pensions ​23 1,223 375 Other provisions ​24 1,730 1,386 Deferred tax liabilities 17 650 1,017 Total non-current liabilities 8,239 7,175 Current interest-bearing liabilities 22, 29 807 274 Trade payables 2,010 2,894 Tax liabilities 65 88 Other current liabilities 1,742 1,779 Accrued expenses and deferred income ​25 3,929 3,917 Other provisions ​24 681 555 Total current liabilities 9,234 9,507 TOTAL LIABILITIES 17,473 16,682 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 25,464 25,716 1) Restated due to adjusted report from a subsidiary, see page 60. For more information on the Group’s pledged assets and contingent liabilities, see Note 26. 58 PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2014 Consolidated financial statements Statement of cash flows SEKm Note 2014 20131) OPERATING ACTIVITIES Income before tax 245 454 Adjustments for non-cash items Reversal of depreciation and impairments 1,847 1,648 Capital gain/loss on sale of subsidiary –1 Capital gain/loss on sale of property, plant and equipment –431 61 Change in pension liability 577 426 Other provisions 937 402 Other items not affecting liquidity 6 0 Pensions paid –1,045 –1,070 Other provisions, liquidity effect –596 –428 Taxes –116 ​45 Cash flows from operating activities before changes in working capital 1,424 1,537 Cash flow from changes in working capital Increase (–)/Decrease (+) inventories ​48 –32 Increase (–)/Decrease (+) in other receivables 138 65 Increase (+)/Decrease (–) in other payables –947 84 Other changes in working capital 7 3 Changes in working capital –754 120 Cash flows from operating activities ​28 670 1,657 INVESTING ACTIVITIES Purchase of property, plant and equipment –1,478 –1,896 Sale of property, plant and equipment 582 62 Capitalized development expenditures –178 –234 Purchase of other intangible assets –34 –111 Sale of intangible assets 5 Acquisition of subsidiaries, net 31 –85 –336 Change in financial assets –198 –125 Cash flows from investing activities –1,386 –2,640 FINANCING ACTIVITIES Amortized debts –600 –219 New debts raised 1,350 400 Change in finance leasing liabilities –15 –61 Dividend paid to Parent Company shareholders –129 –103 Dividend paid to non-controlling interests –3 –2 Net pension transactions –85 –194 Increase(+)/decrease(–) in other interest-bearing liabilities ​48 97 Cash flows from financing activities 566 –82 CASH FLOWS FOR THE PERIOD –150 –1,065 Cash and cash equivalents, opening balance 1,981 3,046 Translation difference in cash and cash equivalents 12 0 Cash and cash equivalents, closing balance ​21 1,843 1,981 1) Restated due to adjusted report from a subsidiary. PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2014 59 Consolidated financial statements Statement of changes in equity Equity attributable to Parent Company’s shareholders Other NonCapital contributed Translation Hedging Retained controlling Total 2013, SEKm stock1) equity reserve reserve earnings2) ­interests equity Equity, opening balance 2,000 9,954 –1,810 –2,614 3 7,533 Adjustments2) –​13 –​13 Adjusted equity, opening balance 2,000 9,954 –1,810 –2,627 3 7,520 Total comprehensive income Net income for the period2) 303 3 306 Other comprehensive income for the period –107 1,420 1,313 Total comprehensive income for the period –107 1,723 3 1,619 Dividend –103 –2 –105 Equity, closing balance 2,000 9,954 –1,917 –1,007 4 9,034 Other NonCapital contributed Translation Hedging Retained controlling Total 2014, SEKm stock1) equity reserve reserve earnings interests equity Equity, opening balance 2,000 9,954 –1,917 –1,007 4 9,034 Total comprehensive income Net income2) 173 3 176 Other comprehensive income for the period 237 –12 –1,312 –1,087 Total comprehensive income 237 –12 –1,319 3 –911 Dividend –129 –3 –132 Equity, closing balance 2,000 9,954 –1,680 –12 –2,275 4 7,991 1) Number of shares 2,000,000,001; 1,524,905,971 ordinary shares and 475,094,030 series B shares. 2) Restated due to adjusted report from a subsidiary, total SEK –29m, of which SEK –13m affected the opening balance and SEK –16m the net income for the period. 60 PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2014 Consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated 01 02 financial statements 03 04 NOTE 1 ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES 05 06 Compliance with law and standards IFRS 9 Financial Instruments will replace IAS 39 Financial The consolidated financial statements were prepared in accorInstruments: Recognition and Measurement, and are required 07 dance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), to be implemented as of 2018. IFRS 9 deals with classification 08 issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB), and measurement of financial assets and financial liabilities, as as approved by the European Commission for application well as hedge accounting. IFRS 9 also establishes new rules on 09 within the European Union. The Swedish Annual Accounts Act impairment of financial assets. IFRS 9 has not yet been appro10 and the Swedish Financial Reporting Board’s RFR 1, Suppleved by the EU for implementation. As a result, the Company mental Financial Statements for Groups, were also applied. has decided to defer an impact analysis and any decision as to 11 The Parent Company applies the same accounting principearly adoption. 12 les as the Group except in the cases indicated in the section IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers is a new Notes to Parent Company’s financial statements, Note 1 standard on revenue recognition. This is a very wide-ranging ​13 Accounting principles. The differences between the Parent standard that, unlike earlier IFRS standards, is more detailed 14 Company’s and the Group’s accounting principles result from and establishes more instructions for implementation. IFRS 15 limits on the Parent Company’s ability to apply IFRS under the replaces a number of other standards and their interpretations 15 Annual Accounts Act, the Act on Safeguarding of Pension and thus takes a comprehensive approach to revenue recogni16 ­Commitments (Tryggandelagen) and, to some extent, tax tion in relation to contracts with customers. The main elements ­considerations. of the standard establish how and when transactions between 17 company and customers are to be recognized as revenue or as 18 Basis of preparation of a liability or receivable. The standard’s model for determining Parent Company and Consolidated financial statements this comprises five steps: 19 The functional currency of the Parent Company is SEK, which 1. Identify the contract with the customer. The company and is also the reporting currency used for the accounts of both the customer have a binding agreement on performance obli​20 Parent Company and the Group. The financial statements gations, conditions, rights and obligations, and the agreement ​21 are therefore presented in SEK. Unless otherwise stated, all has commercial substance and it is probable that payment for amounts are rounded off to the nearest million. Assets and the goods or services will be collected. ​22 ­liabilities are recognized at acquisition cost, except for cer2. Identify the performance obligation. Obligations in the ​23 tain financial assets and derivatives, which are measured at form of goods and services are divided into components that fair value. the customer can benefit from separately and for which reve​24 In preparing the financial statements, management is requinue can therefore be recognized separately. ​25 red to make judgments, estimates and assumptions that affect 3. Determine the transaction price. The price that the custothe application of accounting principles and the amounts dismer pays normally consists of monetary (fixed and variable) ​26 closed for assets, liabilities, income and expenses. The estimaand financial elements. However, the standard adds non​27 tes and assumptions are based on historical experience and a monetary elements, such as guarantees and claims (which are number of other factors that in the prevailing circumstances to be regarded as price elements). ​28 appear reasonable. The results of these estimates and assump4. Allocation of transaction price. The standard stipulates ​29 tions are then used to assess the carrying amounts of assets that the transaction price is to be allocated to the various perand liabilities that are not otherwise revealed clearly from other formance obligations in the contract. ​30 sources. The actual outcome in the future may differ from 5. Recognize revenue when the entity satisfies a perfor31 these assumptions and estimates. Assumptions and estimates mance obligation. According to the standard, a performance are reviewed on an ongoing basis. obligation is satisfied either over time or at a given point in 32 time. 33 Changes in accounting principles For PostNord, the combination of allocation to the perforThe following accounting principles have been amended as a mance obligations in the customer contract, how the transacresult of amendments to IFRS applied with effect from January tion price is agreed and when in time revenue is to be recogni1, 2014. Other changes to IFRS applicable as of 2014 have not zed, represents the probable effect in revenue recognition. had any material effect. The standard also includes instructions regarding new discloIFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements is a new sure requirements. One consistent effect of the standard is that ­standard establishing new principles for determining when a revenue recognition will assume a greater role in estimates controlling interest over an investee exists. The amendment and assumptions. to the standard had no effect on how the Group consolidates It is too early to determine how PostNord’s income recognisubsidiaries. tion and financial statements will be affected by IFRS 15, and IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements is a new standard for accounwhich assessments and assumptions will be necessary. IFRS 15 ting for joint ventures and joint operations. Joint operations are is to be implemented from 1 January, 2017 accounted for using proportionate consolidation or the equivaAmendments to other future standards have not been lent, while joint ventures are accounted for using the equity ­applicable to the Company’s or the Group’s accounts. method. The amendment to the standard did not have any The Company has not elected for early adoption of future impact on the Group. new and amended accounting principles, interpretations or IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities is a new improvements to standards (“Improvements to IFRSs”). standard on disclosures on investments in subsidiaries, joint ventures, associated companies and unconsolidated structuSegment reporting red entities. The standard did not introduce any extra requireA segment is a component of the Group that is identifiable for ment for disclosures. financial reporting purposes and that is constituted of business IFRIC 21 Levies is an interpretation that defines when and areas or geographical areas, see Note 4 on page 67. how a levy imposed by governments (including government agencies and similar bodies) under law or official regulations Classification are to be accounted for. The interpretation did not bring about Non-current assets and liabilities consist in essence only of any change to the Group’s financial reporting. amounts that are expected to be recovered or paid more than 12 months after the end of the reporting period. Current assets Amendments to accounting principles, announced to and liabilities consist in essence only of amounts that are enter into force in 2014 and later expected to be recovered or paid within 12 months of the end A number of new IFRSs will enter into force over the next few of the reporting period. financial years. Those that are thought likely to affect the Group are described in the following. The Group has not opted for early adoption of these IFRSs. PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2014 61 Consolidated financial statements Note 1 (cont.) 01 02 Principles of consolidation Transactions eliminated on consolidation Controlling interest Intra-Group receivables and liabilities, income and expenses 03 Subsidiaries are companies that are, directly or indirectly, suband any gains and losses arising from intra-Group transactions 04 ject to a controlling interest by the Parent Company. A controlare eliminated in their entirety in preparing the consolidated ling interest exists if the Parent Company, directly or indirectly, financial statements. Gains and losses arising from transac05 has power over the investee, is exposed or has the right to varitions with associated companies and jointly controlled compa06 able returns from its involvement in the investee and can use nies are eliminated to the degree that they correspond to the its power over the investee to affect the amount of its investGroup’s interest in the company. 07 ment return. Financial statements of subsidiaries are included 08 in the consolidated accounts from the date of acquisition up to Foreign currency the date when control ceases. Foreign currency transactions 09 The functional currency is the currency of the primary econo10 Business combinations and acquisition method mic environments in which the companies within the Group Subsidiaries are reported using the acquisition method. In this operate. Transactions in foreign currency are translated into 11 method, the Group indirectly acquires the subsidiary’s assets the functional currency at the exchange rate prevailing on the 12 and assumes its liabilities. The acquisition cost upon consolidatransaction date. Monetary assets and liabilities in foreign tion is determined using an acquisition analysis at acquisition. ­currency are translated to the functional currency using the ​13 This analysis establishes the acquisition cost of the participaexchange rate prevailing at the end of the reporting period. 14 tions or business and the fair value at the acquisition date of Exchange rate differences arising in translation are recognized the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed. The in the income statement. Non-monetary assets and liabilities 15 acquisition cost of the subsidiary company’s shares and the measured at historical cost are translated at the exchange rate business consists of the fair values at the transfer date for prevailing at the time of the transaction. Non-monetary assets 16 assets acquired, liabilities arising or assumed and equity instruand liabilities reported at fair values are translated into the fun17 ments in issue that are provided as consideration in exchange ctional currency at the exchange rate prevailing on the date for the net assets acquired. Transaction costs attributable to the fair value was determined. Any changes in exchange rates 18 the acquisition are recognized as an expense. A conditional are then recognized in the same way as for other changes in 19 purchase consideration is calculated as fair value at the date of the value of the asset or liability. acquisition and any adjustment to the related liability for the ​20 conditional purchase consideration made in the period until Financial statements of foreign operations ​21 the date of settlement is recognized in income. Any difference Assets and liabilities of foreign operations, including goodwill between the acquisition cost of the shares in the subsidiary and other fair value adjustments, are translated to Swedish ​22 and the fair value of identifiable assets acquired and liabilities ­kronor, SEK, using the exchange rate prevailing at the end of ​23 assumed is treated as goodwill on consolidation. the reporting period. Revenue and expenses of foreign operations are translated to SEK using an average rate approxima​24 Non-controlling interests ting to the rates on each transaction date. Translation differen​25 In the case of acquisition of subsidiaries where other shareholces arising when the financial statements of foreign operations ders with non-controlling interests are involved, the Group are translated are recognized via other comprehensive income ​26 recognizes assets attributable to shareholders with non-conin the translation reserve in equity. ​27 trolling interests net, either at the fair value of all net assets excluding goodwill, or at the fair value of all net assets including Income ​28 goodwill. The choice of principle is made on a case-by-case Income from services is recognized in the income statement ​29 basis for each individual acquisition. using the degree-of-completion principle at the end of the reporting period. In the mail and communication business and ​30 Changes in ownership in the logistics business, income is recognized when the phy31 Where ownership of companies is increased by acquisitions on sical item is received for physical transportation. Income relaseveral occasions, these are recognized as step-by-step acquited to services including an electronic component (hybrid ser32 sitions. Once a controlling interest is established, changes in vice) is recognized once the object has been converted into a ownership are recognized as transfers between the Parent physical format and has been received for physical transporta33 Company’s owners and non-controlling interests, within sharetion in the form of a mail item. Terminal charges are attributed holders’ equity. In the case of a reduction in ownership such to the handling period, that is, the period in which the item was that a controlling interest is lost, the subsidiary’s assets and received from abroad. Distribution income is recognized in the ­liabilities are derecognized, as well as, where appropriate, nonperiod in which the service is performed. Income from P. O. controlling shareholdings; as a result a capital gain or loss is boxes is recognized on an accruals basis over the term of the recognized in income plus a gain or loss on any remaining contract. Service assignments in information logistics gene­holdings, which is measured as fair value with the change in rally run over a short period of time and their income is recogvalue recognized in income. nized when the assignment is completed. Income from sale of goods is recognized on delivery in Associated companies and joint ventures accordance with the terms of sale; consequently, income is Associated companies are companies in which the Group has recognized when risks and benefits associated with the good a significant influence, but not control, over operating and are transferred to the other party. financial management, usually via a shareholding corresponIncome is not recognized if it is probable that the economic ding to 20–50% of voting rights. benefits will not flow to the Group. Net sales are reported net For accounting purposes, joint ventures are the companies of value added tax, discounts provided on merchandise and over which the Group through cooperation agreements with similar reductions in income. one or several parties exercises a joint controlling interest, in which the Group has the right to such company’s net assets Operating expenses and financial income and expenses instead of a direct right to assets and an obligation regarding Operating expenses liabilities. Personnel expenses are recognized in the period in which the Holdings in both associated companies and joint ventures work is performed. Changes in holiday and salary liabilities are are consolidated in the consolidated financial statements using recognized on an ongoing basis in pace with the employee’s the equity method. In this, the carrying amount of shares in the earning of right to remuneration. During periods of high holidayassociated company or joint venture corresponds to the taking, personnel expenses will on those occasions generally be Group’s participation in the company’s equity, goodwill and any lower than the average cost per period. Other operating expenother remaining fair value adjustments. The Group’s ownership ses are recognized in the period in which the good or service is share in the earnings from the holding after tax and after adjustdelivered or used (for example, in the case of rental costs). ment for any depreciation, impairment losses and reversals of goodwill or negative goodwill, is recognized in income. Payments for assets leased via operating leases The equity method is applied as of the point in time when Costs arising from operating leases are recognized in the the joint control or significant influence is acquired and until income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease period. the time when the influence is no longer significant. Benefits received in connection with the signing of a lease are 62 PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2014 Consolidated financial statements Note 1 (cont.) 01 recognized as part of the leasing cost, on a straight-line basis such as recently completed transactions, prices of similar 02 over the period of the lease, in the income statement. Variable instruments and discounted cash flows. 03 charges are recognized in the periods when they arise. At the end of each accounting period, the Company assesses whether there are any objective indications that a financial 04 Payments for assets leased via financial leases asset or group of assets is in need of impairment. The criteria 05 The minimum lease payments are divided between interest for determining whether there is any need for impairment conexpenses and repayment of the outstanding liability. Interest sist primarily of the counterparty’s officially notified incapacity 06 expenses are distributed over the period of the lease so that to fulfil his obligations, or that party’s incapacity for maintaining 07 each accounting period includes an amount corresponding to payments in the financial markets, as proven by experience. a fixed interest rate for the liability recognized in that particular Financial instruments are classified into categories. The clas08 period. Variable charges are recognized in the periods when sification is based on the intention behind the acquisition of the 09 they arise. financial instrument. Classification of the asset is determined at the time of acquisition. The categories are as follows: 10 Financial income and expenses 11 Financial income and expenses consist of interest income on Financial assets reported at fair value bank deposits, receivables, and fixed-income securities, interest in the income statement 12 expenses on loans, dividend income, exchange rate differences, This category consists of two sub-categories: financial assets unrealized and realized gains on financial investments and deriheld for trading and other financial assets that the Company ​13 vative instruments used within the Group’s financing activities. initially chooses to put in this category. A financial asset is clas14 Interest on pension liabilities and return on assets under manasified as held for trading if it is acquired with the aim of being gement for pensions, calculated in accordance with IAS 19, are sold in the short term. Derivatives are classified as held for tra15 recognized under the heading Net financial items. ding other than when they are used for hedge accounting. 16 Interest income on receivables and interest expense on liaAssets in this category are measured on an ongoing basis at bilities are calculated using the effective interest method. The fair value, with changes in value being recognized in the 17 effective interest rate method is the rate at which the present income statement. 18 value of all future incoming and outgoing payments in the fixed-interest period equals the carrying amount for the receiLoans receivables and trade receivables 19 vable or liability. The interest component of financial lease payLoans receivables and trade receivables are non-derivative ​20 ments is recognized in the income statement by application of financial assets that have fixed or determinable payments, and the effective interest method. Interest income and interest that are not listed on an active market. The receivables arise ​21 expense includes accrued amounts for transaction costs and when companies provide money, goods or services direct to ​22 any discounts, premiums and other differences between the the borrower without any intention of trading in the rights assooriginal recognized amount for the receivable or liability, and ciated with the receivable. The category also includes receiva​23 the amount settled when due. bles acquired. Assets in this category are measured at amorti​24 Issue costs and similar direct transaction costs in conneczed cost. The amortized cost is determined on the basis of the tion with the raising of loans are taken into account in the effective rate of interest calculated at the time of acquisition. ​25 ­c alculation of effective interest. ​26 Dividend income is recognized when the right to receive Held-to-maturity investments payment is confirmed. Held-to-maturity investments are financial assets, with fixed or ​27 determinable payments and a fixed maturity, that the company ​28 Financial instruments has an expressed intention and ability to hold to maturity. Financial instruments recognized on the balance sheet include, Assets in this category are measured at amortized cost. The ​29 on the assets side, cash and cash equivalents, accounts receiamortized cost is determined on the basis of the effective rate vable, shares, loan receivables and bond receivables and deriof interest calculated at the time of acquisition. As a result, fair ​30 vatives. Liabilities and equity include accounts payable, debt value adjustments and direct transaction costs are recognized 31 and equity instruments issued, loan liabilities and derivatives. on an accrued basis over the term of the instrument. Financial instruments are initially recognized at acquisition 32 cost, corresponding to the instrument’s fair value, including Available-for-sale financial assets 33 direct transaction costs for all financial instruments, except Available-for-sale financial assets include financial assets not those falling within the category of financial assets measured included in any other category or financial assets that the at fair value via the income statement. Subsequent reporting Company initially chooses to put in this category. Assets in this depends on how the instruments are classified, as shown category are measured on an ongoing basis at fair value, with below. changes in value being recognized in other comprehensive A financial asset or financial liability is recognized on the income, except for those relating to impairments. However, balance sheet when the company becomes party to the continterest calculated using the effective interest method, as well ractual provisions of the instrument. A receivable is recognized as dividend income and exchange rate differences, are recogwhen the company has performed and there is a contractual nized in the income statement. liability for the counterparty to pay, even if the invoice has not At the time the investments are derecognized from the yet been sent. Trade receivables are recognized on the balance balance sheet, any accumulated gain or loss previously recogsheet when an invoice has been sent. Liabilities are recognized nized in equity is transferred to the income statement. when the counterparty has performed and there is a contractual liability to pay, even if the invoice has not been received. Financial liabilities held for trading Trade payables are recognized when the invoice is received. and other financial assets A financial asset is removed from the balance sheet when Financial liabilities held for trading consist of interest-bearing the rights in the agreement are realized or expire or the comliabilities and derivatives not used for hedge accounting. Liabilipany loses control over them. The same applies for any portion ties in this category are measured at fair value, with any change of a financial asset. A financial liability is removed from the in value recognized in the income statement. balance sheet when the obligation in the agreement is discharged or otherwise expires. The same applies for any portion of Other financial liabilities a financial liability. Financial liabilities not held for trading are measured at amortiAcquisitions and sales of financial assets are recognized at zed cost. The amortized cost is determined on the basis of the the trade date, which is the date when the company commits effective rate of interest calculated when the liability was to acquire or sell the asset, other than in the cases in which the booked. As a result, fair value adjustments and direct issue company acquires or sells listed securities, when settlementcosts are recognized on an accruals basis over the term of the date accounting is used. liability. Borrowing costs attributable to the purchase, construcThe fair value of listed financial assets is equal to the asset’s tion or production of an asset that takes considerable time to listed purchase price at the end of the reporting period. The fair complete are capitalized. value of unlisted financial assets that consist of endowment insurance policies is determined using valuation techniques, PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2014 63 Consolidated financial statements Note 1 (cont.) 01 02 Cash and cash equivalents Receivables and liabilities denominated 03 Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash and deposits immein foreign currencies diately available at banks and similar institutions, together with Forward contracts are used to hedge assets and liabilities 04 current investments with maturities of less than three months against foreign exchange risk. To achieve matching, hedge 05 from the acquisition date and that are exposed to an insignifiaccounting is not necessary since the hedged item is translacant risk for changes in value. Funds held on behalf of others ted at the exchange rate at the end of the period and the hed06 within treasury operations are not treated as cash and cash ging instrument is measured at fair value, with any changes in equivalents. Such funds consist of escrow funds held on behalf value being recognized via the income statement under the 07 of external customers for the sole purpose of onward transmisheading Exchange rate differences. 08 sion and as such are not available for payments relating to PostNord’s own operations. Funds held on behalf of others are Transaction exposure – cash flow hedges 09 subject to change unrelated to operating income, investments Exposure to exchange rates in connection with contracted 10 and other payment flows within PostNord’s own operations. payment flows are hedged via forward contracts. Any changes in value are recognized via the income statement. 11 Financial investments 12 Financial investments consist either of financial assets or shortInterest rate risk – cash flow hedges term investments, depending on the purpose of the holding. If In order to secure interest flows related to certain borrowing ​13 the term or anticipated period of holding is longer than a year, at variable interest, interest rate swaps, in which the Company 14 the asset is regarded as a non-current financial asset; if it is receives variable interest and pays fixed interest, are used. The shorter than a year but longer than three months, the asset is swaps are measured at fair value in the statement of financial 15 a short-term investment. position. The interest coupon component is recognized as part 16 Fixed-income securities acquired with the intention of being of interest expense on an ongoing basis in income for the year. held until maturity are classified as financial assets held until Unrealized changes in fair value of the interest swaps are 17 maturity and measured at amortized cost. Fixed-income securecognized in other comprehensive income and form part of 18 rities not intended to be held until maturity are classified either the hedging reserve until the hedged item affects the income as financial assets measured at fair value via the income statefor the year and as long as the criteria for hedge accounting 19 ment or as available-for-sale financial assets. and efficiency are fulfilled. ​20 When assets are measured at fair value via the income ­statement, any change in value is recognized within net Property, plant and equipment ​21 ­financial items. Owned assets ​22 Property, plant and equipment are recognized as assets on the Non-current receivables and balance sheet if it is probable that future economic benefits will ​23 other current receivables accrue to the company and the historical cost can be measu​24 Non-current receivables and other current receivables are red reliably. receivables that arise when a company provides money witThe Group recognizes property, plant and equipment at ​25 hout the intention of trading in the rights associated with the acquisition cost less deductions for accumulated depreciation receivable. Such receivables fall within the category of Loan and any impairment losses. Acquisition cost includes the ​26 receivables and trade receivables. purchase price and costs directly attributable to the asset in ​27 order to bring it into place in the right condition to be used as Trade receivables intended. Examples of directly attributable costs are costs for ​28 Trade receivables are classified as Loan receivables and trade delivery and handling, installation, title registration, consulting ​29 receivables. Trade receivables are recognized at the amounts services and legal services. The accounting policies for deprciexpected to be received after deductions for doubtful receivaation and impairment are explained below. ​30 bles, which are determined on a case-by-case basis. An impairProperty, plant and equipment that consist of parts with 31 ment loss is applied to a receivable if it may be regarded as ­different useful lives are treated as separate components of doubtful, that is, it is older than 90 days after falling due or it property, plant and equipment. 32 relates to a customer with historical problems with payment. The carrying amount for a property, plant and equipment 33 Trade receivables that relate to customers with an acknowleditem is removed from the balance sheet upon scrapping or ged good capacity for payment and a good payment history ­disposal or when no future economic benefit is expected from are not regarded as doubtful, even if older than 90 days and its use, scrapping or disposal. Any gain or loss arising from the adequate interest compensation is expected to be paid. The scrapping or disposal of an asset is the difference between the anticipated term of the receivable is short and the value is thesale proceeds and the asset’s carrying amount less deductions refore recognized undiscounted at its nominal amount. Impairfor direct selling costs. Gains and losses are recognized as ment of receivables is recognized under the heading Other Other income or expense. operating expenses. Leased assets Liabilities Leases are classified in the consolidated accounts either as Liabilities are classified as Other financial liabilities and are thus finance leases or operating leases. A finance lease substantially recognized initially at the amount received after deduction of transfers the economic risks and rewards associated with transaction costs. After the date of acquisition, loans are meaownership to the lessee; if this is not the case, the lease is an sured at amortized cost in accordance with the effective inteoperating lease. rest method. Non-current liabilities have an anticipated term of Assets leased via a finance lease are recognized as an asset more than one year, while current liabilities have a term of less on the consolidated balance sheet. The obligation to pay future than one year. lease charges is recognized under Current and non–current liabilities. The leased assets are depreciated according to plan, Trade payables while the lease payments are recognized as interest and amorTrade payables are classified under the heading Other financial tization of liabilities. liabilities. Accounts payable have a short anticipated maturity With operating leases, the lease charge is recognized as an and so are measured undiscounted at their nominal amount. expense over the lease term based on use of the asset, which charge may differ from what has actually been paid as a lease Derivatives and hedge accounting charge during the year. In the Group, derivatives consist of currency forward contracts and interest rate swaps used to cover risks of changes in Subsequent costs exchange rates and market interest rates. Changes in the value Subsequent costs are added to the acquisition cost of an asset of derivatives are recognized in the income statement or in only if it is probable that the future economic benefits associaother comprehensive income, depending on the purpose of ted with the asset will accrue to the company and the historical the holding. cost can be measured reliably. All other subsequent costs are recognized as an expense in the period when they occur. A critical factor in determining when a subsequent cost is added to the acquistion cost is whether the expenditure relates 64 PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2014 Consolidated financial statements Note 1 (cont.) 01 to the replacement of identified components or parts thereof, to which they relate. All other costs are recognized as costs 02 in which case such expenditure is capitalized. Even if new comwhen they arise. 03 ponents are created, the expenditure is added to the cost of the asset. Any remaining amounts for replaced components, Amortization principles 04 or parts thereof, are scrapped and expensed in connection Amortization is recognized in the income statement on a 05 with the replacement. Repairs are expensed as incurred. straight-line basis through the estimated useful life of an intangible asset, unless this period is indeterminate. Goodwill and 06 Depreciation principles other intangible assets with an indeterminable useful life are 07 Assets are depreciated on a straight-line basis over the estimatested for impairment annually or as soon as there is an indicated useful life of the asset. Land is not depreciated. The Group tion that the value of the asset has decreased. An intangible 08 applies component depreciation, which means that each asset is amortized from the date when it becomes available 09 component’s estimated useful life is the basis for depreciation. for use. 10 The following depreciation periods are The following amortization periods are 11 applied. applied. 12 Buildings, land improvements and Capitalized development efforts improvements to leased properties 20–50 years completed 5–10 years ​13 Interiors and installations Brands, customer relationships, 14 in leased premises 5–10 years licenses and other rights 5–10 years 15 Sorting equipment 5–10 years 16 Vehicles 4–10 years Inventories Computer equipment 3–7 years Inventories are stated at either cost and net realizable value 17 using the FIFO (first-in, first-out) principle, whichever is the Other machinery and equipment 3–10 years 18 lower. The residual value and useful life of each asset are assessed 19 annually. Impairment losses ​20 The carrying amounts for the Group’s assets, other than assets Intangible assets held for sale and disposal groups reported in accordance with ​21 Goodwill IFRS 5, investment properties, inventories, assets under manaGoodwill represents the difference between the acquisition gement used to finance remuneration to employees and defer​22 cost of the business combination and the fair value of identifired tax assets, are tested at the end of each reporting period to ​23 able assets acquired, liabilities assumed and contingent determine whether there is any indication of need for impair­liabilities. ment. If any such indication is found, the recoverable amount ​24 Goodwill is measured at acquisition cost less any accumulafor the asset is calculated. The value of the excluded assets ​25 ted impairment. Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units, above is tested in accordance with the relevant standard. which are tested annually for impairment. Goodwill arising upon For goodwill, other intangible assets with an indeterminable ​26 the acquisition of associated companies is included in the carryuseful life and intangible assets not yet ready for use, the ​27 ing amount for participations in associated companies. ­recoverable amount is assessed annually. With regard to impairment of financial assets, see also the ​28 Capitalized development expenditure section Financial instruments. ​29 Development expenditure is capitalized when it is considered An impairment loss is recognized when the carrying that it will generate future financial benefits. The carrying amount of an asset or cash-generating unit exceeds its recove​30 amount includes direct expenditure in connection with servirable amount. Impairment losses are charged to the income 31 ces and equipment acquired. Other development costs are statement. expensed in the income statement as they arise. Capitalized An impairment loss on an asset attributable to a cash-­ 32 development expenditure recognized on the balance sheet is generating unit is charged first to goodwill. The loss is then 33 reported at acquisition cost less accumulated depreciation and ­allocated proportionately to other assets in the unit. impairment. PostNord defines development expenditure as the costs required for developing commercially viable services Calculation of the recoverable amount and products that may form part of an offering within the The recoverable amount is calculated as either fair value less PostNord portfolio. Such expenditure includes costs directly selling costs or value in use, whichever is the higher. Calcularelated to the newly-developed offering. Development expention of the value in use is based on PostNord’s estimates of diture is capitalized when it meets the criteria of IAS 38 and is future cash flows. When calculating the value in use, future calculated to represent material amounts for the development cash flows are discounted using a discount factor that takes initiative as a whole. Otherwise, development costs are recoginto account risk-free interest and the risk associated with the nized as standard operating expenses. specific asset. Such estimates are based on the Group’s busiThe most important criteria for capitalization is that the end ness plans, supplemented by other relevant information. product from the development process should have a demonstrable future earning or cost-saving capacity and cash flow, Reversal of impairment losses and that the technical and financial conditions should exist for Impairment losses on goodwill are not reversed. Impairment completing the development process once it is started up. of ther assets is reversed if there is both an indication that Other development processes, such as in connection with impairment no longer exists and also there has been a change important ERP systems, are capitalized when they represent, in the assumptions on which the calculation of recoverable or when it is estimated that they will represent, material value was based. amounts for the development process as a whole. Otherwise, An impairment loss is reversed only to the extent that the such items are recognized as expenses. asset’s carrying amount after the reversal does not exceed the carrying amount that the asset would have had if no impairOther intangible assets ment had been applied, taking into account the depreciation Other intangible assets comprise acquired brands and similar and amortization that would then have been applied. rights, which are recognized at acquistion cost less accumulated depreciation and impairments. Assets are depreciated on Dividend paid a straight-line basis over the period of the particular right, Dividends are recognized as a liability after they have been ­normally 5–10 years. approved by the AGM. Subsequent costs Employee benefits Subsequent costs relating to capitalized intangible assets are Pension commitments recognized on the balance sheet only if they increase the The PostNord Group’s pension commitments consist partly future economic benefits associated with the specific asset of defined-benefit plans with an agreed promise of a future PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2014 65 Consolidated financial statements Note 1 (cont.) 01 02 pension level based primarily on the person’s final salary, and Deferred tax is calculated using the balance sheet method on 03 partly of defined-contribution plans in which insurance premithe basis of temporary differences between the recognized ums are paid and the employee bears the risk regarding the and taxable values of assets and liabilities. The amounts are 04 future pension level. The Group’s commitments as to definedcalculated on the basis of how the temporary differences are 05 contribution pension plans are recognized as a personnel expected to be evened out using the tax rates and regulations expense in the income statement as they are earned through enacted or announced at the end of the reporting period. Tem06 the employee performing his or her duties on behalf of the porary differences are not included in goodwill on consolidaCompany. The defined contribution plans consist for the most tion. In legal entities, untaxed reserves are recognized inclu07 part of an ITP (occupational pension) plan adapted for ding deferred tax liabilities. In the consolidated accounts, 08 PostNord in Sweden, and a number of smaller plans in Norway untaxed reserves are divided into deferred tax liability and and France. Calculations are performed for all defined-benefit equity. Deferred tax assets relating to deductible temporary 09 plans using the projected unit credit method, in order to esta­differences and loss carry-forwards are recognized only to the 10 blish the present value of commitments regarding benefits for extent it is probable that these will result in lower tax payments present and previous employees. Actuarial calculations are in the future. Such probability is judged on the basis of 11 conducted annually on the basis of actuarial assumptions, PostNord’s business plan and operational plans. 12 which are determined annually at the closing of the year-end accounts. Assumptions are made for inflation, changes in Pledged assets and contingent liabilities ​13 income base amounts, personnel turnover, discount rate, A contingent liability is recognized whenever there is a possible 14 return on investments and life expectancy. obligation arising from past events and the existence of which The Group’s net commitment consists of the present value is confirmed only by one or more uncertain future events. 15 of the estimated pension commitments, less the fair value of ­Contingent liabilities are also recognized whenever there is an 16 the assets under management. Changes in the present value obligation not reported as a liability or provision because it is of the net commitments arising from changes in actuarial not probable that resources will have to be used to settle the 17 assumptions are treated as revaluation effects and recognized obligation. Pledged assets are recognized for guarantees 18 in other comprehensive income. The carrying amount of ­provided and assets pledged. ­pensions and similar commitments on the PostNord Group’s 19 balance sheet represents the present value of the commitRelated party transactions ​20 ments at the end of the period, less the fair value of assets Information from the Company on transactions with Swedish under management, including special payroll tax. If the value State and the Danish State has been restricted to relationships ​21 of the commitment exceeds the value of the assets under that are not of a commercial nature, as a result of which related ​22 management, a liability is recognized. If the assets under manaparty transactions consist of special assignments from the gement exceed the commitments, an asset is recognized on State and licenses from public authorities. ​23 the Group’s balance sheet. If the pension expense and pension ​24 provision established for Swedish plans deviate from the amounts calculated in accordance with IFRS, compared to what ​25 is recognized in accordance with RedR 1 (FAR SRS standard NOTE 2 M ATERIAL ASSESSMENTS AND ESTIMATES “Annual Reports in Limited Liability Companies”), special payroll ​26 When preparing the Group’s financial statements, the tax in accordance with UFR (Statements from the Swedish ​27 Financial Accounting Standards Council) is also recognized for Company’s management has made assessments and estimathe difference. As regard pensions and s­ imilar benefits financed tes that affect the Group’s reported accounts. These assess​28 ments and estimates are based on what was known at the time via defined-contribution plans, e ­ xpenses equal to PostNord’s ​29 annual contributions in respect of the plans are recognized. the accounts were presented, and on historic experience and the assumptions that management considers reasonable in ​30 Termination benefits the given circumstances. The conclusions that management 31 A provision is recognized in connection with notice of terminahas drawn are the basis of the amounts stated. Actual outcotion of employment, where PostNord is obliged to terminate an mes, assessments and estimates in future financial statements 32 employment without any realistic prospect of withdrawing an over the year ahead may deviate from those contained in this 33 offer of termination benefit. When termination benefits are report as a result of changes in external circumstances and offered to encourage voluntary redundancy, a provision is newly gained experience. The assessments and estimates that recognized when the offer has been accepted at least by the are most material to PostNord were made in the following representative of those affected and the number of employees areas: who will accept the offer can be reliably estimated. In cases where PostNord gives notice of termination of employment, Prepaid stamp liability, SEK 433m (403) a detailed plan is drawn up specifying at least workplace, PostNord’s pre paid stamp liability is calculated for stamps sold ­positions and estimated number of employees affected, as but not used. The extent of the liability is determined on the well as type of benefits and amounts for each personnel basis of a number of assumptions. Assumptions are based on ­c ategory or position and the time at which the plan is the number of stamps sold but not used in Sweden and Denintended to be carried out mark. To ensure that the assumptions are reasonable, studies are carried out in both Denmark and Sweden. If the study indiProvisions cates changes in the behavior of the population, or that a samProvision is made for obligations that result from a past event, ple group is not representative of the population, the size of and for binding onerous contracts, where it is probable that an the liability may be affected. outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation. A provision is recognized on the balance sheet when Intangible assets, SEK 4,691m (4,900) 1) there is a present legal or constructive obligation and the Assumptions are made about future conditions in order to calamount can be reliably calculated. Provision for restructuring culate future cash flows that determine the recoverable value measures is made where a sufficiently detailed plan is in place of goodwill, brands and customer relations. The recoverable and has been communicated such that well-founded expectavalue is compared with the carrying amount for these assets tions have been established with other parties – or their and forms the basis for possible impairment or reversals. The ­representatives – who will be affected by the measures. assumptions that most affect the recoverable value are future changes in volume, changes in profit margin, discount rate Taxes and estimated useful life of the asset. If future environmental Income taxes comprise current tax and deferred tax. Income factors and circumstances change, these assumptions may taxes are recognized in the income statement except when the be affected so that the carrying amounts of intangible assets underlying transaction is recognized in other comprehensive change. income, whereupon the associated tax effect is also recognized in other comprehensive income. Current tax is tax that is 1) Restated due to adjusted report from a subsidiary. calculated on the basis of the current year’s taxable income. This includes adjustments to current tax for previous periods. 66 PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2014 Consolidated financial statements Note 2 (cont.) NOTE 4 SEGMENT REPORTING 01 Pension commitments, liabilities SEK 388m PostNord’s organization into business areas is based on the 02 (assets SEK 609m) manner in which PostNord is governed and activities are repor03 In making the actuarial calculation for PostNord’s pension ted to management. Market pricing applies to internal dealings ­commitments, a number of assessments are made in order to between PostNord business areas. There is no scope for 04 arrive at reasonable assumptions. The most material of these purchasing externally where the service is available internally. In PostNord’s operational structure, though not in its legal 05 are assumptions about discount rate, expected rate of return on assets under management, future pay trends and inflation. structure, cost distribution for corporate shared service fun06 Changes in pension commitments due to altered external facctions is at cost price. Under the new matrix organization introduced on March 31, 07 tors may affect PostNord’s income, net financial items and other comprehensive operating income, as well as balance 2014, business activities are integrated within each market, 08 sheet items such as financial receivables and pension liability. whereupon the markets have overall responsibility for the entire product and service portfolio, as well as for sales in each 09 Changes in assumptions affect the forecast cost for the year ahead. country region. Along with the developed brand structure, the 10 new organization further highlights PostNord’s profile to its customers as a Nordic logistics operator. It also creates the 11 Provisions for transition regulations, SEK 784m (746) As a consequence of Posten AB’s corporatization in Sweden in right conditions for the Group to develop its end-to-end offe12 1994, PostNord assumed a contingent liability (transition regularing for the fast-growing e-commerce sector in the Nordic tions) such that certain categories of the workforce may choose region. ​13 to retire early, at the age of 60 or 63. Provision in the balance 14 sheet is calculated on the basis of previous experience of the Countries proportion of persons who have elected to exercise their right Markets are divided into the following country organizations: 15 to early retirement under these provisions. If the proportion of PostNord Sweden, PostNord Denmark (incl. Germany), 16 employees choosing this option should change, the liability will PostNord Norway/Finland, PostNord Strålfors and Other change accordingly. A change of 5 percentage points in the countries. 17 take-up rate impacts income by +/–SEK 4m. 18 Segments Deferred tax assets, 566 (537) SEKm1) Business area Mail & Communication provides distribution 19 Tax assets consisting of tax loss carry-forwards have been solutions in the communication market through its nationwide ​20 measured on the basis of business plans and estimates of distribution networks in Sweden and Denmark. The business future taxable profits for which tax loss carry-forwards may be area offers physical and digital mail, direct mail and newspaper ​21 used. Estimates have been made of non-deductible costs and delivery services, as well as facility management services. ​22 non-taxable income in accordance with current tax regulations. Account has also been taken of future income in the foreBusiness area Logistics offers logistics services in Parcels, ​23 seeable future in order to evaluate the recognized tax claim at Express & Courier, Full& Part-Loads, Groupage, Thermo, Air & Ocean and Third-Party Logistics. Business area Logistics has ​24 the tax rates currently in force. Changes to tax legislation in Sweden and other countries where PostNord operates, and an end-to-end offering and distribution network for businesses ​25 changes in interpretation and application of relevant legislation and individual customers in the Nordic market. Parcel services in Denmark were reported in Business area Mail Denmark ​26 may affect the size of recognized tax assets and liabilities. Changes in circumstances that impact the assumptions will under the previous organizational structure, but are now ​27 also influence financial results for the year. ­reported in Logistics. ​28 1) Restated due to adjusted report from a subsidiary. PostNord Strålfors operates in information logistics. The ​29 company develops and offers communication solutions that create stronger, more personal customer relationships for ​30 NOTE 3 REVENUE DISTRIBUTION companies with large customer bases. 31 Other comprises shared services and corporate functions 32 Net sales Net sales consist for the most part of services provided. including the Parent Company and Group adjustments. The 33 adjustments consist of IFRS adjustments for pensions in accorOther operating income dance with IAS 19, Employee Benefits, and finance leasing in accordance with IAS 17, Lease Agreements. Service costs for SEKm 2014 2013 shared services and corporate functions are allocated from Rental income ​20 ​27 Other to the business areas. Cost allocations are taken up as Insurance claim payments 12 1 Other operating income, internal. Within the business areas, cost allocations are recognized in Other Expenses. Commission income 11 15 Capital gains, buildings 384 40 Eliminations consists of the elimination of internal Capital gains, machinery and equipment 11 6 ­transactions. Capital gains, current receivables/­ liabilities 2 1 Exchange rate gains 59 ​23 Other 133 120 Total 632 233 PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2014 67 Consolidated financial statements Note 4 (cont.) 01 02 Mail and PostNord 03 ­Communication1) Logistics1) Strålfors2) Other1) Eliminations1) PostNord Group 04 Jan–Dec, SEKm 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 05 Net sales, external 21,645 22,012 15,717 15,018 2,588 2,504 –1 39,950 39,533 Net sales, internal 160 112 223 169 75 108 2 3 –460 –392 0 0 06 Total net sales 21,805 22,124 15,940 15,187 2,663 2,612 2 2 –460 –392 39,950 39,533 07 Other operating income, 08 ­external 127 96 62 ​45 0 15 443 77 632 233 09 Other operating income, 10 ­internal 2,710 2,332 597 1,234 5 0 3,158 3,067 –6,470 –6,633 0 0 Income 24,642 24,552 16,599 16,466 2,668 2,627 3,603 3,146 –6,930 –7,025 40,582 39,766 11 12 Personnel expenses –13,001 –13,333 –3,899 –3,874 –805 –820 –551 –6221) 44 ​23 18,212 18,626 Transportation expenses –3,372 –3,249 –6,883 –6,897 –412 –113 –7 –7 842 1,313 9,832 8,953 ​13 Other expenses –6,901 –6,641 –5,448 –5,148 –1,327 –1,490 –2,724 –2,297 6,044 5,689 –10,356 –9,887 14 Depreciation and impairments –791 –769 –443 –425 –188 –202 –425 –252 –1,847 –1,648 15 Expenses –24,065 –23,992 –16,673 –16,344 –2,732 –2,625 –3,707 –3,1781) 6,930 7,025 –40,247 –39,114 16 Participations in earnings 17 by associated companies 18 and joint ventures 15 10 1 16 10 OPERATING INCOME 592 570 –74 122 –63 2 –104 –321) 0 0 351 662 19 ​20 Net financial items –106 –208 Income before tax 245 454 ​21 ​22 Tax –69 –148 Net income 176 306 ​23 1) Restated due to organizational changes implemented in spring 2014. ​24 2) Restated due to adjusted report from a subsidiary. ​25 ​26 Division by geographical areas 2014 2013 ​27 based on domicile of companies, SEKm Income Assets Investments Income Assets Investments ​28 Sweden 23,634 12,958 1,245 23,290 12,756 1,593 Denmark 9,891 8,113 231 9,741 8,840 351 ​29 Norway 4,490 3,325 187 4,536 3,001 253 ​30 Finland 662 428 6 612 495 11 31 Other countries 1,905 640 ​21 1,587 626 33 32 Total 40,582 25,464 1,690 39,766 25,718 2,241 33 NOTE 5 EMPLOYEES, PERSONNEL EXPENSES AND EXECUTIVE REMUNERATION 2014 2013 Average number of employees per country Women Men Total % men Women Men Total % men Sweden 7,954 15,226 23,180 66% 8,166 15,555 23,721 66% Denmark 4,543 7,672 12,215 63% 4,796 8,234 13,030 63% Finland 84 148 232 64% 100 175 275 64% Norway 283 1,371 1,654 83% 261 1,378 1,639 84% Other countries 264 431 695 62% 243 397 640 62% Total 13,128 24,828 37,976 65% 13,566 25,739 39,305 65% Personnel expenses, SEKm 2014 2013 Salaries and other remuneration 14,104 14,175 Statutory social costs 2,567 2,715 Pension expenses1) 1,421 1,498 Other personnel expenses 120 2382) Total 18,212 18,626 1) Of the Group’s pension expenses, SEK 5m (4) pertains to current and earlier Presidents and Executive Vice Presidents. Commitments outstanding on behalf of these persons total SEK 158m (131) 2) Restated due to adjusted report from a subsidiary. 68 PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2014 Consolidated financial statements Note 5 (cont.) 01 2014 2013 02 Of Other Of Other Salaries and other remuneration Presiwhich, employPresiwhich, employ03 per country, SEKm dents1) bonus ees Total dents1) bonus ees Total 04 Sweden 19 7,629 7,648 ​29 7,636 7,665 05 Denmark 9 5,208 5,217 14 5,301 5,315 Finland 2 100 102 2 105 107 06 Norway 4 950 954 5 925 930 07 Other countries 2 181 183 2 157 159 08 Total 36 14,068 14,104 52 14,124 14,176 09 1) Current and former Presidents and Executive Vice Presidents. 10 2014 2013 11 Salaries and other remuneration Pension Other Pension Other to Group Executive Team, SEKm Salary expenses benefits Total Salary expenses benefits Total 12 Håkan Ericsson, President and Group CEO ​13 (from October 2013) 9.1 2.7 0.1 11.9 2.2 0.7 0.4 3.3 14 Lars Idermark, President and Group CEO (up to May 15, 2013) 4.2 1.1 0.0 5.3 15 K.B. Pedersen, Executive Vice President 16 (acting CEO May 16, 2013 – to Sept. 2013) 4.7 4.7 4.7 4.7 Total, President and Group CEOs and 17 Executive Vice President 13.8 2.7 0.1 16.6 11.1 1.8 0.4 13.3 18 Johanna Allert 2.1 0.6 0.1 2.8 2.0 0.6 0.0 2.6 19 Gunilla Berg (from September 29, 2014) 1.1 0.3 0.0 1.4 ​20 Henning Christensen 3.4 0.1 3.5 3.0 0.2 3.2 Joss Delissen 3.0 0.9 0.0 3.9 3.1 0.9 0.0 4.0 ​21 Andreas Falkenmark 4.5 1.3 0.1 5.9 4.4 1.3 0.1 5.8 ​22 Annemarie Gardshol 3.4 1.1 0.1 4.6 3.3 1.0 0.1 4.4 ​23 Finn Hansen (from Jan. 21, 2013) 3.7 3.7 3.3 3.3 Lo Hjorth (up to Jan. 20, 2013) 0.1 0.0 0.0 0.1 ​24 Anders Holm (from April 2014) 2.2 0.6 0.0 2.8 ​25 Henrik Höjsgaard (up to Dec. 2013) 4.3 1.3 0.1 5.7 Mats Johansson (from Jan. to March 31, 2014) 0.5 0.1 0.0 0.6 ​26 Peter Kjaer Jensen (from April 2014) 2.1 0.6 0.0 2.7 ​27 Lena Larsson (from May 12 to Sept. 28, 2014) 0.7 0.2 0.0 0.9 ​28 Per Mossberg 3.0 0.9 0.1 4.0 3.0 0.9 0.1 4.0 Robin Olsen (from April 2014) 2.9 0.6 0.0 3.5 ​29 Henrik Rättzén (up to May 11, 2014) 1.9 0.6 0.0 2.5 4.6 1.4 0.1 6.1 ​30 Per Samuelson (up to end Oct. 2014) 3.2 0.9 0.0 4.1 3.8 1.1 0.0 4.9 31 Total, other Group Executive Team 37.7 8.7 0.5 46.9 34.9 8.5 0.7 44.1 32 Total, Group Executive Team 51.5 11.4 0.6 63.5 46.0 10.3 1.1 57.4 33 Benefits to senior executives and should serve the purpose of sound ethics and a healthy On behalf of all senior executives in Sweden, a pension provicorporate culture. The level of remuneration shall not be sion of no more than 30% of the person’s monthly salary is ­pay-setting relative to comparable enterprises, but shall be made. Under the relevant contracts, the pensionable age is ­characterized by restraint. 65 or 62 years. On behalf of the Group President and other senior executiIn the case of senior executives employed in Denmark, the ves (employed under Swedish labor law) in the Group, indivipension cost is included in the salary and the pensionable age dual premium-based pension agreements are contracted, adheres to guidelines and generally accepted practice in the where the charge amounts to no more than 30% of the country. In the case of senior executives in Norway, premiummonthly salary. The required insurance policies are contracted based pensions are applied, and the pensionable age adheres within the scope of this charge. The retirement age is currently to guidelines and generally accepted practice in the country. 62 or 65 years. In future recruitment, this will be 65 years. In the The pension cost for the current President is set at 30% of the case of senior executives employed under Danish law, preperson’s monthly salary. The period of notice of termination mium-based pensions solely will be applied and the pensionais 6 months. ble age for such executives will adhere to Danish labor law. The period of notice of termination for other members of the In new employment contracts, the period of notice where Group Executive Team is 6–12 months by the Company and 6 the employment is terminated by the employer shall not months by the individual. If the employment is terminated at the exceed six months. Employment contracts signed earlier, with a employer’s initiative, severance compensation corresponding to period of notice of 12 months where the employment is termithe value of the person’s monthly salary will be paid for a maxinated by the employer, shall continue to apply. Where the mum of 12 months. Whenever a new employment contract is employment contract is terminated by the senior executive, the signed, the value of company car benefit is not nowadays inclunotice of termination shall be six months. Where the employded in the calculation of the severance compensation. Older ment is terminated by the employer, severance compensation employment contracts still exist, in which the value of company may be paid in an amount corresponding to no more than 12 car benefit is included in the basis of calculation for severance month’s salary. If the employee takes up new employment or compensation. For senior executives, the rule applied is that receives income from other business activities, the salary paid income from new employment or own business is deducted during the notice period and the severance pay will be reduced from termination salary and severance compensation. by an amount corresponding to the new income. Variable salary will not be paid to the senior executives. In Summary of guidelines on compensation the light of other principles in the government’s guidelines on to senior management in the Group terms of employment for senior executives in State-owned (adopted at the AGM, held on April 23, 2014). companies, variable salary may be paid to other employees. The total remuneration paid to senior executives shall be wellbalanced, competitive, capped, reasonable and fit-for-purpose, PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2014 69 Consolidated financial statements Note 5 (cont.) 01 02 Dec. 31, 2014 Dec. 31, 2013 03 Gender representation among senior executives, % % women % men % women % men 04 Group Board of Directors 38 62 38 62 05 Group Management ​27 73 18 82 06 Board members and presidents of subsidiaries 34 66 36 64 07 Fees to Board of Directors of Remuneration 08 PostNord Group and PostNord AB, SEKt1) Audit Committee ­Committee 2014 2013 09 Jens Moberg from April 2013 Chairman 638 450 10 Gunnel Duveblad Chairman 313 313 Fritz Schur (Ch.) to end of April 2013 Chairman 188 11 Anne Birgitte Lundholt to end of April 2013 Member 112 12 Sisse Fjelsted Rasmussen from April 2013 Member 300 188 ​13 Christian Ellegaard from April 2013 Member 300 188 14 Jonas Iversen to end of February 2014 Member 15 Magnus Skåninger from April 2014 Member Anitra Steen from April 2013 Member 275 188 16 Mats Abrahamsson Member 275 275 17 Ingrid Bonde to end of April 2013 Member 88 18 Bjarne Hansen to end of April 2013 Member 112 19 Torben Janholt Member 275 275 ​20 Total 2,376 2,377 1) Board members are entitled to invoice via a company or sole proprietorship, including associated social insurance costs. However this is done, it is cost​21 neutral to PostNord. ​22 Remuneration approved by Annual General Meeting , Board of Audit Remuneration ​23 held on April 23, 2014, SEKt Directors Committee Committee ​24 Chairman 600 63 38 ​25 Member 250 50 ​25 ​26 ​27 NOTE 6 OTHER EXPENSES to personnel expenses, as one element of PostNord’s effi​28 ciency initiatives in Group administrative support functions. In the segment Other, provisions relate primarily to early ​29 ­retirements and participations in organizations dealing with SEKm 2014 2013 redundant personnel. Personnel redundancies consist prima​30 Costs of premises 2,143 2,204 rily of those affected by ongoing efficiency programs in the 31 Provisions 1,013 441 Group functions. 32 Terminal charges 1,249 1,024 33 Cost of goods and materials 919 1,1071 NOTE 7 FEES AND REIMBURSEMENT Procured IT resources 1,605 1,472 OF EXPENSES TO AUDITORS Capitalized development costs, IT –199 –194 Other 3,626 3,8331) SEKm 2014 2013 Total 10,356 9,887 Audit services Specification of provisions and reversals KPMG 10 8 regarding restructuring initiatives Total 10 8 Mail & Communication 658 209 Logistics 116 12 Other auditing services PostNord Strålfors 73 ​30 KPMG 2 0 Other 166 190 Total 2 0 Total 1,013 441 Tax consultancy 1) Restated due to adjusted report from a subsidiary. KPMG 2 1 Total 2 1 Strålfors’ provisions for restructuring initiative in 2014 consisted of three elements: In the first quarter, it was decided to underOther services take a reorganization in Strålfors, with accompanying personnel KPMG 1 1 reductions. One effect of the reorganization was to cut the number of divisions from four to three. In the fourth quarter, Total 1 1 PostNord decided on further cost savings in administration and Audit services consist of statutory review of the annual and conother support functions, measures that will also affect Strålfors. solidated accounts and accounting records and the administraSpecific measures were also approved for Strålfors, including tion by the Board and the President, as well as review and other the closure of a production unit in the United Kingdom. auditing procedures performed as per agreement or contract. Provisions in other business operations related in the main This also includes other duties that fall to the Company’s auditor, and advice or other support occasioned by observations made during audits or the performance of such other duties. 70 PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2014 Consolidated financial statements NOTE 8 DEPRECIATION AND IMPAIRMENTS NOTE 10 TAX 01 02 SEKm 2014 2013 SEKm 2014 2013 Depreciation/Amortization Current tax –61 –19 03 Licenses and similar assets 247 225 Deferred tax 04 Capitalized development costs 146 105 Change in deferred tax in property, 05 Buildings and land 115 153 plant and equipment –25 15 06 Machinery and equipment 1,189 1,162 Other temporary difference in balance sheet items 179 –202 07 Total 1,697 1,645 Change in deferred tax 08 Impairments in tax loss carry-forwards –162 58 Other intangible assets 2 09 Total –8 –129 Capitalized development costs, IT 150 Total tax –69 –1481) 10 Machinery and equipment 1 1) 11 Restated due to adjusted report from subsidiary. Total 150 3 2014 2013 12 Reconciliation of effective tax rate % SEKm % SEKm ​13 Income before tax 22.0 244 22.0 4541 14 NOTE 9 NET FINANCIAL ITEMS Tax at current tax rate for 15 Parent Company –54 –100 SEKm 2014 2013 Non-deductible expenses –11 –22 16 Financial income Tax-exempt income 4 ​23 17 Interest income ​23 35 Effect of unused tax losses 18 incurred during the year –16 –14 Interest income, pensions 52 0 19 Tax attributable to previous year 1 8 Other financial income 14 15 Impairment of previously capitali​20 Total 89 50 zed tax loss carry-forwards –2 –5 ​21 Financial expenses Impairment of deferred ​22 Interest expenses –107 –98 tax asset relating to Interest expenses, pensions –64 –981) temporary year-on-year differen​23 ces, not utilized 1 –18 Interest expenses, finance leases 0 –24 ​24 Effect of changes in tax rates Other financial expenses –15 –16 ​25 and introduction of new taxes 2 6 Net change in exchange rates –9 –22 Effect of other tax rates in ​26 Total –195 –258 foreign subsidiaries –2 –8 ​27 Net financial items –106 –208 Other 8 –18 Total –69 –148 ​28 See Note 29 Financial risk management and financial instru​29 ments, on page 82. For more on interest expense relating to Uncapitalized tax loss carry-forwards relate to operations pensions, see also Note 23 Pensions, on page 75. ­outside Sweden, see Note 17, page 74. ​30 31 NOTE 11  ARTICIPATIONS IN ASSOCIATED COMPANIES P 32 AND JOINT VENTURES 33 Participations in associated companies At the financial year-end, Post Danmark A/S owned shares in equity in the associated company e-Boks A/S to a value of SEK 83m (65). The company e-Boks A/S has its registered office in Ballerup, Denmark, and is owned by 50%. At the financial year-end, Strålfors Svenska AB held 30% of the shares in equity in the associated company DM-byrån Friends & Tactics Sweden AB, a Stockholm-based agency ­specializing in direct and relational marketing. The company’s book value at year end was SEK 0.7m (0.4). Participations in joint ventures Strålfors Svenska AB owns 50% of the company Tand 2:103 Fastigshets AB, in Östersund, Sweden. The value of the ­participation on consolidation at year end was SEK 0m (0). PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2014 71 Consolidated financial statements NOTE 12 INTANGIBLE ASSETS 01 02 Goodwill Other intangible assets 03 Capitalized Total 04 Licenses and similar development other intangible assets expenditure assets 05 SEKm 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 06 Acquisition cost, opening balance 3,303 3,198 2,150 2,085 2,036 1,781 4,186 3,866 07 Acquisition of subsidiaries 167 8 ​30 8 ​30 08 Other investments 34 111 178 234 212 345 09 Disposals/scrapping 27 –11 –41 –27 –52 Reclassifications 249 –201) –209 ​28 402) 8 10 Translation differences 77 –62 18 –45 59 34 77 –11 11 Accumulated acquisition cost 12 at year-end 3,380 3,303 2,432 2,150 2,064 2,036 4,496 4,186 ​13 Amortization, opening balance –1,195 –1,023 –855 –740 –2,050 1,763 14 Depreciation for the year –247 –225 –146 –105 –393 –330 Disposals/scrapping 18 19 33 18 52 15 Reclassifications 18 1 –18 12 0 16 Translation differences –16 16 –47 –25 –63 –9 17 Accumulated amortization 18 at year-end –1,440 –1,195 –1,047 –855 –2,487 –2,050 19 Impairments, opening balance –8 –8 –10 –8 –521 –516 –531 –524 Impairments for the year –76 –2 –74 –150 –2 ​20 Translation differences –9 –5 –9 –5 ​21 Accumulated impairments ​22 at year-end –8 –8 –86 –10 –604 –521 –690 –531 ​23 Closing balance 3,372 3,295 906 945 413 660 1,319 1,605 1) Restated due to adjusted report from a subsidiary. ​24 2) Reclassifications from inventories. ​25 ​26 ​27 Other intangible assets Rate of Internally generated intangible assets are recognized as CapiGoodwill growth Discount ​28 talized development expenditure. Capitalized development Dec. 31 after rate ​29 expenditure referred in the main to system support for 2014, forecast before PostNord-wide IT systems and integration of the IT infrastrucCash-generating unit SEKm period, % tax (%) ​30 ture. Capitalized development projects have been tested for impairment, leading to impairment losses of SEK 150m (0) as a PostNord Logistics Norway 921 3 12.4 31 result of increased standardization and thus streamlining of the PostNord Logistics Sweden 832 3–4 12.8 32 system portfolio and infrastructure platforms. Capitalized Post Danmark 766 1 12.6 33 development processes on December 31, 2014 totaled a carryStrålfors Group 710 3 12.3 ing amount of SEK 413m (660). Other intangible assets consisted primarily of licenses and PostNord Logistics Denmark 88 1 13.2 similar assets and totaled SEK 906m (945) on December 31, PostNord Logistics Finland ​46 3 14.5 2014. Direct Link Group 7 2.5 12.7 No general changes to amortization periods were applied Svensk Adressändring AB/ in 2014. For more on amortization periods used, see page 65. Addresspoint AB 2 –1 12.3 For more on acquisitions of intangible assets made through acquisition of subsidiaries, see Note 31 Acquisitions and Total goodwill 3,372 ­disposals, on page 86. The recoverable amount (that is, value in use or fair value after Goodwill deduction of the cost of sales, whichever is the higher) is deterGoodwill is the only intangible asset in the Group with an indemined on the basis of value in use, obtained by using discounterminable useful life. Goodwill is not amortized but is tested ted cash flow calculations. The calculations are based on busiannually for impairment. In order to allow for testing of impairness plans (3–6 years) approved by management. ment, goodwill in the Group has been allocated to cash-geneManagement’s assessments reflect historical experience, anarating units in accordance with PostNord’s organization into lysis of external trends and other available external informabusiness areas. In view of the fact that the production and sales tion. Key assumptions on which cash flows during the business of acquired businesses have been integrated with other planning period were based were volume growth, trend of PostNord operations, it is no longer possible to separate out EBIT margin, discount rate (weighted average cost of capital, the cash flow and assets of the units as originally acquired. WACC) and growth in working capital. Goodwill values have in certain cases been tested at a higher On impairment testing of goodwill in the fourth quarter level, although no higher than at segment level. 2014, the values in use calculated exceeded the carrying Goodwill on December 31, 2014 was reported in the amount amounts in all units. No reasonably conceivable changes to of SEK 3,372m (3 295), and was allocated to the following assumptions with an important bearing on the values in use ­c ash-generating units: are likely to give rise to impairment losses. 72 PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2014 Consolidated financial statements NOTE 13 PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT 01 02 Construction in progress 03 Buildings Machinery and and advance and land equipment ­payments Total 04 SEKm 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 05 Acquistion cost, opening balance 5,780 6,022 15,182 14,117 1,390 1,286 22,352 21,425 06 Acquisition of subsidiaries 401 ​25 332 401 357 07 Other acquisitions 306 368 773 1,1332) 399 395 1,478 1,896 08 Disposals/scrapping –190 –586 –554 –665 –217 –34 –961 –1,285 09 Reclassifications 7561) –811) 179 157 –1,133 –262 –198 –1861) Translation differences 219 32 342 108 9 5 570 145 10 Accumulated acquisition cost 11 at year-end 7,272 5,780 15,922 15,182 448 1,390 23,642 22,352 12 Depreciation, opening balance –1,943 –2,389 –10,941 –10,217 –1 –1 –12,885 –12,607 ​13 Depreciation for the year –116 –152 –1,188 –1,162 –1,304 –1,314 14 Acquisition of subsidiaries –2 –162 –164 Disposals/scrapping 59 562 784 664 843 1,226 15 Reclassifications 171) 621) 14 ​30 1 32 921) 16 Translation differences –92 –24 –266 –94 –358 –118 17 Accumulated depreciation 18 at year-end –2,075 –1,943 –11,597 –10,941 –1 –13,672 –12,885 19 Impairments, opening balance –10 –10 –46 –46 –56 –56 Impairment losses for the year –1 –1 ​20 Reclassification 4 6 10 ​21 Translation differences –1 1 –1 1 ​22 Accumulated impairments ​23 at year-end –6 –10 –41 –46 –47 –56 ​24 Closing balance 5,191 3,827 4,284 4,195 448 1,389 9,923 9,411 ​25 1) Reclassifications to Assets held for sale total SEK 50m (104). 2) Restated due to adjusted report from a subsidiary. ​26 ​27 NOTE 14 LEASED  MACHINERY, EQUIPMENT AND PROPERTY LEASES ​28 Operating leases Financial lease assets ​29 Lease charges for the PostNord Group paid during the year Financial lease assets reported as property, plant, and ​30 totaled SEK 1,514m (1,535). Outstanding lease charges at the ­equipment consist of: end of the period, at the exchange and interest rates prevailing 31 for the Group totaled SEK 5,302m (5,204). The minimum lease SEKm 2014 2013 32 charges for operating leases fall due for payment as follows: Acquistion cost 33 Machinery and equipment 127 146 Machinery and Premises 533 ­equipment Premises Closing balance 127 679 SEKm 2014 2013 2014 2013 Accumulated depreciation Within 1 year 62 109 1,254 1,304 Machinery and equipment –81 –81 Between one and five years 74 164 2,612 2,401 Premises –533 More than five years 9 1,300 1,217 Closing balance –81 –614 Total 136 282 5,166 4,922 Carrying amount ​46 65 The major share of machinery and equipment employed Lease charges under financial leases amounted to SEK 30m via leases operate at Mail & Communication and consist of (85) during the year. machinery for production of electronic mail services. Note 29, Financial risk management and financial instruments, specifies the maturities of the non-current liabilities Finance leases ­relating to financial leases. The lease charges for financial leases contracted fall due for The financial leases relate to a terminal building, decommispayment as follows: sioned on December 31, 2013, in Sweden, and vehicles in ­Norway and Sweden. Minimum The reason for the changes in acquisition cost lies in existing lease contracts at companies acquired. ­payments Interest Present value See also Note 26 Pledged assets, contingent liabilities and SEKm 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 contingent assets on page 82. Within 1 year 12 31 1 3 11 ​28 Between one and five years 18 54 2 6 16 ​48 Total ​30 85 3 9 ​27 76 PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2014 73 Consolidated financial statements NOTE 15 FINANCIAL INVESTMENTS NOTE 16 NON-CURRENT RECEIVABLES 01 02 SEKm Dec. 31, 2014 Dec. 31, 2013 SEKm Dec. 31, 2014 Dec. 31, 2013 03 Financial investments treated Carrying amount relating to 04 as non-current assets ­funded defined-benefit disability Endowment insurance 143 145 pension plans measured 05 in accordance with IAS 19 841 984 Other non-current investments 114 66 06 Payroll tax, Closing balance 257 211 disability pension plans –5 4 07 Short-term investments treated Deposits, property leases 50 ​24 08 as current assets Other 1 4 09 Other short-term investments 150 Total 887 1,015 10 Closing balance 150 11 12 NOTE 17 DEFERRED TAX ​13 14 2014 2013 Acquisition/ Acquisition/ 15 disposal of disposal of 16 business business Recognized Change in Recognized Change in 17 via the IAS19 and via the IAS19 and 18 Opening income translation Closing Opening income translation Closing SEKm balance ­statement differences balance balance ­statement differences balance 19 Deferred tax assets ​20 Other provisions 325 116 441 338 –131) 325 ​21 Loss carry-forwards 377 –162 –3 212 287 58 32 377 ​22 Provision for pensions 0 0 1,279 –1,279 ​23 Finance leases 3 –2 1 4 –1 3 Offset against liabilities –168 80 –88 –495 327 –168 ​24 Total 537 –48 77 566 1,413 44 –920 537 ​25 Of which, outside ​26 Sweden 168 194 109 168 ​27 Deferred tax liability ​28 Non-current intangible assets –156 58 77 –21 –281 132 –7 –156 ​29 Property, plant and ​30 equipment –433 –25 –40 –498 –454 15 6 –433 31 Current assets –70 56 14 –39 –31 –70 32 Provision for pensions –526 –49 370 –205 –1,114 –290 878 –526 33 Offset against ­receivables 168 –80 88 495 –327 168 Total –1,017 40 327 –650 –1,393 –174 550 –1,017 Of which, outside Sweden –213 –229 –149 –213 1) Restated due to adjusted report from a subsidiary. Receivables and liabilities in Sweden have been recognized Non-recognized receivables pertaining to deferred tax attribuat SEK 247m (245) net, while other receivables and liabilities table to tax loss carry-forwards amount to SEK 112m (103), have been recognized gross. Receivables outside Sweden ­consisting for the most part of SEK 107m (100) in France. have been recognized at SEK 194m (168) and liabilities at SEK 229m (213). NOTE 18 INVENTORIES NOTE 19 TRADE RECEIVABLES Trade receivables are recognized after taking account of SEKm Dec. 31, 2014 Dec. 31, 2013 impairment losses totaling SEK 20m (25) during the January – Goods for resale etc. 98 1051) December period. Anticipated bad debts totaled SEK –57m Raw materials 79 121 (–58). For more details of the accounting principle, please see Note 1 Accounting principles, on page 64. For more informaClosing balance 177 226 tion on risk management and age breakdown of trade receiva1) Restated due to adjusted report from a subsidiary. bles due but not impaired, see Note 29 Financial risk management and financial instruments on page 82. The major share of the raw materials and goods for resale held in inventories are at Strålfors. Impairment losses on inventories totaled SEK 1m (1) in 2014. 74 PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2014 Consolidated financial statements NOTE 20 P  REPAID EXPENSES AND NOTE 22 INTEREST-BEARING LIABILITIES 01 ACCRUED INCOME 02 SEKm Dec. 31, 2014 Dec. 31, 2013 SEKm Dec. 31, 2014 Dec. 31, 2013 03 Accrued interest income 3 ​ 0 Non-current interest-bearing 04 Accrued postal charges 98 102 ­liabilities Accrued commission income 2 2 Liabilities to credit institutions 4,399 4,126 05 Prepaid rent 225 247 Finance leases ​28 41 06 Prepaid insurance premiums ​26 16 Other non-current liabilities 150 148 07 Prepaid salaries 161 150 Closing balance 4,577 4,315 Terminal fees 472 334 08 Current interest-bearing liabilities Forward foreign exchange 09 Liabilities to credit institutions 557 ­contracts 12 Commercial paper 200 200 10 Other items 293 645 Utilized credit line 39 61 Closing balance 1,289 1,526 11 Finance leases 11 ​13 Closing balance 807 274 12 NOTE 21 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS See Note 29 Financial risk management and financial ​13 ­instruments, on page 82. 14 SEKm Dec. 31, 2014 Dec. 31, 2013 Cash and bank balances 1,502 1,529 15 Short-term investments treated 16 as cash and cash equivalents 341 452 Closing balance 1,843 1,981 17 Short-term investments have been classified under Cash and 18 cash equivalents if they are readily convertible into cash, have 19 a maturity of no more than 3 months from the date of acquisition and present a negligible risk of value fluctuations. ​20 ​21 NOTE 23 PENSIONS ​22 Note 1 Accounting principles includes a description of T ­ ryggandelagen (1967:531) (the Swedish Pension Obligations ​23 PostNord’s pension plans, on page 61. PostNord operates both Vesting Act). Postens Pensionsstiftelse is supervised by the defined-benefit pension and defined-contribution pension Stockholm County Administrative Board and Finansinspektio​24 plans. There are also a small number of personnel categories nen (the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority). Postens ​25 that are entitled to a retirement pension under special arrange­Försäkringsförening is regulated under Swedish Friendly ments made at corporatization. Postens Pensionsstiftelse ­Societies Act (1972:262) and is under the supervision of Finans​26 (Posten’s Pension Fund) manages pension obligations on inspektionen. As a result, Postens Försäkringsförening must ​27 be­half of Posten AB, Posten Meddelande AB and PostNord maintain a capital base that exceeds the required solvency Logistics AB. For more information on internal dealings betmargin. The pension plan in Norway is regulated under the ​28 ween the Group and Postens Pensionsstiftelse, see the section Norwegian Company Pension Scheme Act, while in France ​29 Assets under management and Note 30 Related party transacthe pension plan is governed by collective agreement in the tions on page 86. Postens Pensionsstiftelse is regulated under graphical sector. ​30 31 Balance sheet items for defined-benefit pension plans Dec. 31, 2014 Dec. 31, 2013 32 Unfunded Unfunded Unfunded Unfunded 33 pension pension pension pension Pension obligations and assets Funded plans, plans, Funded plans, plans, under management, net, pension vested non-vested pension vested non-vested SEKm plans ­pensions pensions Total plans ­pensions pensions Total Present value of defined-benefit commitments 18,461 1,670 785 20,916 15,573 1,764 747 18,084 Assets under management, fair value –19,649 –19,649 –17,571 –17,571 Net liability on balance sheet –1,188 1,670 785 1,267 –1,998 1,764 747 513 Special payroll tax –171 77 191 97 –373 –6 181 –198 Net liability on balance sheet including effect of special payroll tax –1,359 1,747 976 1,364 –2,371 1,758 928 315 Of which: Other provisions, see also Note – Other provisions 976 976 928 928 Pension provisions –523 1,747 1,224 –1,383 1,758 375 Non-current receivables, see also Note – Non-current receivables –836 –836 –988 –988 The net amount is made up of plans in the following countries, SEKm Sweden 1,357 309 France 5 5 Norway 1 1 Total 1,363 315 Work-related injuries 42 42 Total, including work-related injuries 1,405 357 PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2014 75 Consolidated financial statements Note 23 (cont.) 01 02 When the value of the assets under management exceeds the that the value of asset exceeds the present value of future present value of the pension calculation, this results in an asset repayments from the plan and has lowered future payments 03 for the Group (see Non-current receivables). The Group judges into the plan. 04 2014 2013 05 Unfunded Unfunded Unfunded Unfunded 06 pension pension pension pension Specification of present value Funded plans, plans, Funded plans, plans, 07 of defined-­benefit commitpension vested non-vested ­pension vested non-vested 08 ments, SEKm plans ­pensions pensions Total plans ­pensions pensions Total 09 Opening balance 15,573 1,764 746 18,083 16,455 1,866 781 19,102 Costs relating to 10 service during current year 271 7 ​20 298 313 7 ​23 343 11 Costs relating to 12 service during preceding year 0 –2 0 –2 0 0 0 0 Interest expense 597 65 ​30 692 549 64 ​27 640 ​13 Occupational pensions 0 125 0 125 0 121 0 121 14 Payments of benefits –791 –323 0 –1,114 –810 –328 0 –1,138 15 Reductions and adjustments 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 16 Transfers 769 –654 –115 0 0 104 –104 0 Actuarial gains (minus) 17 and losses (plus) – change 18 in financial assumptions 2,252 168 78 2,498 –1,134 –85 –18 –1,237 19 Actuarial gains (minus) and losses (plus) – change ​20 in demographic assumptions 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 ​21 Actuarial gains (minus) and losses (plus) – experienced-based –210 517 ​26 333 200 15 37 252 ​22 Exchange rate differences ​23 in foreign plans 0 3 0 3 0 0 0 0 ​24 Closing balance 18,461 1,670 785 20,916 15,573 1,764 746 18,083 Weighted duration of plan, ​25 years 15 12 6 14 13.4 10.8 6.1 12.8 ​26 The group anticipates paying benefits totaling SEK 1,035m in respect of defined-benefit plans during 2015. ​27 ​28 Fair value of assets under management 2014 2013 Provision for estimated future non-vested pensions ​29 Opening balance 17,571 16,408 PostNord is liable for its Swedish subsidiaries’ non-vested pen​30 Interest income 672 551 sion commitments under what is referred to as the interim proContributions from employer 854 194 visions. The interim provisions apply to certain personnel who, 31 under the terms of their employment, are entitled to retire at Credit –881 –111 32 60 or 63 years of age. A condition is that the employee had Payments of benefits –70 –68 reached the age of 28 years by no later than January 1, 1992 and 33 Reductions and adjustments 0 0 remained in the same function. The total obligation, calculated Actual return above (plus) 1,503 597 in accordance with the Pension Obligations Vesting Act, for penand below (minus) interest income sions under the interim provisions was SEK 2,682m (2,720) on December 31, 2014. Experience indicates that on average 25% Exchange rate differences in foreign plans 0 0 of those eligible exercise their right under the interim proviClosing balance 19,649 17,571 sions, and so the provision is set at this proportion of the total obligation. The special payroll tax is taken into account and the amount recognized as a liability totals SEK 976m (928), incluReturn on assets under management, ding special payroll tax. For more information on accounting SEKm 2014 2013 under IAS 19, see the tables in this Note on Unfunded pension Actual return on assets under plans, non-vested pensions, together with Non-vested pension ­management, SEKm 2,175 1,148 commitments in Note 24 Other provisions on page 80. Interest income 672 551 Provision for ultimate liability Actual return above (plus) and below PostNord bears liability for an obligation, known as the ultimate (minus) interest income on assets under liability, that Posten AB assumed at its corporatization. This oblimanagement during the period 1,503 597 gation was previously recognized as a contingent liability. At the time of transition to IAS 19, a provision was made for this obligation. On the basis of available information, this obligation was calculated at SEK 114m (118) on December 31, 2014. In addition, a provision was made for special payroll tax. The obligation is included in the balance shown for Unfunded pension plans non-vested pensions, see the tables in this Note, together with Non-vested pension commitments in Note 24 Other ­provisions on page 80. Liability for maintaining value In 2000, pension commitments previously guaranteed via Postens Pensionsstiftelse were redeemed through the purchase of insurance policies. The capital value of these commitments on December 31, 2014 was SEK 34m (37). PostNord retains a liability for maintaining the value and coordinating the gross value of these pension commitments. 76 PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2014 Consolidated financial statements Note 23 (cont.) 01 02 2014 2013 Unfunded Unfunded Unfunded Unfunded 03 Expenses and income pension pension pension pension 04 for d ­ efined-benefit and Funded plans, plans, Funded plans, plans, ­defined-contribution pension vested non-vested pension vested non-vested 05 pension plans, SEKm. plans ­pensions pensions Total plans ­pensions pensions Total 06 Costs relating to 07 service during current year 271 7 ​20 298 313 7 ​23 343 Costs relating to service 08 during preceding year 0 –2 0 –2 0 0 0 0 09 Interest expense (plus) 10 and interest income (minus) –75 65 ​30 ​20 –2 64 ​27 89 Occupational pensions 0 125 0 125 0 121 0 121 11 Reductions and adjustments 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 12 Total defined-benefit ​13 pension plans 196 195 50 441 311 192 50 553 14 Defined-contribution 15 pension plans 1,054 1,053 Less net financial items ​–20 –​90 16 Reversal of provision for 17 ­restructuring measures, ­relating to expenses for 18 ­occupational pensions –​67 –33 19 Other defined-benefit ​20 pension expenses ​13 15 Total pension expenses 1,421 1,498 ​21 ​22 Actuarial assumptions The expenses for 2014 are based on the actuarial assumptions ​23 The actuarial valuation of PostNord’s defined-benefit pension established at the beginning of 2014. At the end of 2014, commitments and pension expenses is based on the assumpPostNord established assumptions that were applied to the ​24 tions described below. These assumptions are stated as weigh­c alculation of the outcome as per December 31, 2014. These ​25 ted mean values for the particular pension plan. Changes in actuarial assumptions are also used in the forecast for expenany of these fundamental assumptions may have considerable ses in 2015. In the process, it was also taken into account that ​26 impact on estimated pension commitments, financing requireall assumptions used in the valuation should in the long term ​27 ments and annual pension expenses. be mutually compatible. The discount rate is determined in accordance with IAS 19, ​28 that is, on the basis of high-quality corporate bonds traded on ​29 Actuarial an active market as defined by IFRS, by reference to the Swe­assumptions, % Dec. 31, 2014 Dec. 31, 2013 Dec. 31, 2012 ​30 dish housing bond market. Against this background, manageDiscount rate 2.60 4.00 3.50 ment takes the view that the discount rate applied reflects the 31 Future annual pay time value of money and offers a reasonable present value for rises 2.40 2.60 2.60 the Group’s pension obligations. Future annual salary increases 32 reflect anticipated percentage pay rises, as a composite pro33 Change in income duct of inflation, period of service and rank. The income base base amount 3.00 3.00 3.00 amount is determined annually by the government and is used Inflation 1.50 2.00 2.00 for example to establish the ceiling for pensionable pay in the Employee turnover 4.50 4.50 4.50 national pension system. The group has elected for an assuLife expectation med inflation rate of 1.5%. This reflects the view of the actors in assumption FFFS 2007:31 FFFS 2007:31 FFFS 2007:31 the financial markets regarding inflation in the pricing of securities, that is, implicit inflation. A rate of 1.5% is assumed to reflect expectations of future inflation and is more mutually compatible with the reference interest rate from the housing bond market. The personnel turnover is the composite expectation for future business growth, real pay rises and the productivity growth required to maintain profitability, and also takes into account the personnel turnover experienced over recent years. The factor of average remaining service life is determined on the basis of the current age breakdown for the Group’s employees. The life expectancy assumption is based on Finansinspektionen’s directions, published as FFFS 2007:31. PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2014 77 Consolidated financial statements Note 23 (cont.) 01 02 Alecta The Pension Fund’s allocation strategy is based on an asset Obligations for retirement and family pensions for salaried ­liability management (ALM) analysis. The forecast pension 03 employees in Sweden may be secured through an insurance ­liability is measured against the anticipated return on the 04 policy with Alecta. In the Group, only a few companies use assets, together with risk and historical correlations, in order ­insurance as a means of securing pension benefits, and the to determine an appropriate asset allocation and level of risk. 05 amounts are not substantial. The asset allocation and the Pension Fund’s management 06 shall ensure that the long-term target for return on investment Assets under management is achieved, at a level of risk that is justifiable and reasonable. 07 The major share of the Group’s assets under management are The return achieved on asset management varies from year to 08 administered by Postens Pensionsstiftelse (PostNord’s Pension year, depending on a range of separate external factors. This Fund). Other assets under management consist of assets in means that the return on investment target is to be regarded 09 Postens Försäkringsförening (PostNord’s Insurance Associaas a target for return achieved over a longer term. 10 tion, pension insurance with Skandia and assets under manaThe Pension Fund strives for a well-balanced diversification gement relating to Norwegian pension plans. Total assets between and within categories of asset, on the basis of historic 11 under management amount to SEK 19,649m (17,571). risk-adjusted return and correlations, as well as anticipated 12 The activities of The Pension Fund are governed by an ­risk-adjusted return. Diversification reduces the risk represeninvestment policy subject to the approval of its Board of Directed by the assets. The allocation over various classes of asset ​13 tors. The assets transferred by Posten to the Pension Fund are is determined across ranges of flexibility. 14 required to generate a reasonable return. To achieve this, a 63% of the Pension Funds’s assets are traded in an active degree of risk-taking is necessary. In order to prevent the level market. Pensionsstiftelsen’s assets at year-end 2014 and 2013 15 of risk becoming excessive, The Pension Fund diversifies its were as follows: 16 investments over various categories of asset. 17 18 2014 2013 19 Postens Pensionsstiftelse’s assets under management, market value, SEKm Dec. 31 % Dec. 31 % ​20 Interest-bearing securities1) 2,059 11 1,911 12 High yield 919 5 1,197 7 ​21 Liquidity2) 651 4 1,091 7 ​22 Hedge funds 4,420 ​25 3,430 ​21 ​23 Infrastructure 905 5 807 5 ​24 Properties 1,917 11 1,720 11 ​25 Swedish shares 883 5 1,243 8 Foreign shares 5,206 ​29 3,835 ​24 ​26 Raw materials 0 0 ​27 Private equity 1,058 6 759 5 ​28 Total Assets under management at Postens Pensionsstiftelse 18,018 15,993 ​29 1) Including accrued interest. ​30 2) Including asset classes that were classifed as Other assets in the preceding year. 31 32 33 The asset allocation at the PostNord Pension Fund on December 31, 2014 is shown in the above table. The overarching objective of the Pension Fund is to manage its assets with regard to the Group’s pension obligations for which the Pension Fund has received the funds concerned. The composition of and return on the assets shall adequately ensure that the Group can meet the pension payments that the Pension Fund ­assures. Other assets under management, market value, SEKm Dec. 31, 2014 Dec. 31, 2013 Postens Försäkringsförening 1,590 1,536 Pension insurance, Skandia 42 42 Total Other assets under management 1,632 1,578 78 PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2014 Consolidated financial statements Note 23 (cont.) 01 Sensitivity analysis 02 At year-end 2014, PostNord had funded pension commitments With regard to the interim provisions, an allocation of 25% of 03 of SEK 18,461m (15,573) and assets under management of the total obligation is made under the interim provisions, since SEK 19,649m (17,571). In addition to funded commitments, a this is what experience has shown is the take-up rate. Account 04 pension liability is provided for on the balance sheet, divided is also taken of the special payroll tax. Any change in the obligainto vested pension commitments of SEK 1,670m (1,764) and tion as required by the interim provisions by virtue of any 05 non-vested pension commitments of SEK 785m (746). The change in the take-up rate is recognized as income or expense. 06 Group’s pension commitments are measured on the basis of For more information on the impact on income from changes the above-mentioned actuarial assumptions and the assets in take-up rate in interim provisions, see table. 07 under management are measured at fair value. 08 09 10 Impact on balance sheet items and 11 Change Impact on income other comprehensive income Impact after 12 Net Impact on Impact on tax on other ​13 Forecast cost financial ­pension ­market value comprehensive Sensitivity analysis, SEKm (service cost) items liability of assets income 14 Actuarial assumptions 15 Change in discount rate and 16 ­anticipated return on assets 17 under management +0.1% point 5 7 –282 –220 –0.1% point –6 –7 299 233 18 Change in actual return 19 on assets under management +0.1% point 0 1 ​20 16 ​20 –0.1% point 0 –1 ​–20 –16 Change in salaries +0.5% point –17 –8 328 256 ​21 –0.5% point 17 8 –315 –246 ​22 Change in income base amount +0.5% point 5 3 –100 –78 ​23 –0.5% point –6 –3 112 87 ​24 Change in inflation +0.5% point –18 –33 1,284 1,002 ​25 –0.5% point 17 31 –1,181 –921 Life expectancy +1 year –9 ​–20 754 588 ​26 –1 year 9 ​20 –749 –584 ​27 Take-up rate, ​28 rights under interim provisions Change in take-up rate, ​29 rights under interim provisions +5.0% point –4 –3 134 105 ​30 –5.0% point 4 4 –134 –105 31 32 33 PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2014 79 Consolidated financial statements NOTE 24 OTHER PROVISIONS 01 02 Opening Impact of Closing 03 2014 Jan–Dec, SEKm balance Provisions Reversals Utilizations translation balance 04 Restructuring activities 05 Personnel reduction 745 1,078 –92 –606 39 1,164 Other closure costs 43 68 –1 –30 3 83 06 07 Non-vested pension commitments Special payroll tax 181 12 –27 ​25 191 08 Non-vested pension commitments 09 in accordance with IAS 19 747 50 –115 103 785 10 Other 11 Work-related injuries 42 3 –3 42 12 Pension settlement with Danish State 43 –​13 –11 –20 –1 ​13 Provision, commemorative awards 140 5 –16 18 147 Total 1,941 1,216 –248 –666 168 2,411 14 Of which current 555 681 15 of which non-current 1,386 1,730 16 17 Anticipated payments, SEKm 1 year 2 years 3 years > 3 years 18 Provisions for restructuring activities 666 264 230 87 19 Provisions for non-vested pensions ​20 in accordance with IAS 191) 2) 243 74 83 369 ​21 Other provisions2) ​21 34 19 167 ​22 Total 930 372 332 577 ​23 1) Anticipated payments for non-vested pensions (excl. special payroll tax) have been calculated in accordance with IAS 19. 2) Estimated present value of anticipated payments. In view of the low discount rate, the anticipated payments are ​24 somewhat lower than the respective provision. ​25 ​26 Opening Impact of Closing 2013 Jan–Dec, SEKm balance Provisions Reversals Utilizations translation balance ​27 Restructuring activities ​28 Personnel reduction 707 501 –75 –400 12 745 ​29 Other closure costs 43 15 –16 1 43 ​30 Non-vested pension commitments 31 Special payroll tax 189 –8 181 32 Non-vested pension commitments in accordance with IAS 19 781 51 –104 19 747 33 Other Work-related injuries 43 4 –5 42 Pension settlement with Danish State 40 ​24 –22 1 43 Provision for commemorative awards 141 14 –24 9 140 Total 1,944 609 –187 –467 42 1,941 Of which current 359 555 Of which non-current 1,585 1,386 80 PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2014 Consolidated financial statements Note 24 (cont.) 01 Provisions for restructuring activities Present value 02 Provisions for restructuring consist of the expenses that have Provisions for which the payment period extends over several 03 arisen as a result of the Group’s efficiency programs in adminisyears are normally discounted to present value. Effects of distration and its decisions to increase production efficiency. The counting included in the changes for the year are presented 04 amounts are calculated on the basis of management’s best separately when they reach substantial amounts. Provisions 05 estimates. The provisions are reviewed at the end of each for non-vested pensions have payment periods extending reporting period and are adjusted to reflect the current best over several years. In the case of this provision, a present value 06 estimate. If it is no longer likely that an outflow of funds will be calculation is not presented separately, since it is covered by 07 required to settle the commitment, the provision is reversed. IAS 19. See also Note 23 Pensions on page 75. New provisions and reversals are recognized within the busi08 ness activity that decides upon closure. Anticipated payments for provisions 09 In 2014, provisions and reversals relating to restructuring The amounts stated correspond to the anticipated outcome with an income impact in Other expenses amounted to SEK that forms the basis for calculating the amount for the provi10 1,013m, see also Note 6 Other expenses. The effect of provisions, but cannot be considered entirely as real payment flows 11 sions for non-vested pension commitments, pension settlesince certain costs are not matched by payments. Such costs ment with the Danish State and provision for commemorative include, for example, certain retirement-related expenses. 12 awards are recognized in personnel expenses. ​13 Utilizations for costs in 2014 totaled SEK 663m, with ­personnel expenses accounting for SEK 633m. NOTE 25 ACCRUED EXPENSES AND 14 Translation differences arising from foreign exchange DEFERRED INCOME 15 effects are recognized in comprehensive income. 16 SEKm Dec. 31, 2014 Dec. 31, 20131) Provision for estimated future non-vested pensions Provision for stamps sold 17 PostNord is liable for non-vested pension commitments under but not used 433 403 18 what is known as the interim provisions. The interim provisions Accrued payroll expenses 611 607 apply to certain personnel who, under the terms of their 19 Holiday pay liability 1,519 1,534 employment, are entitled to retire at 60 or 63 years of age. ​20 ­Special payroll tax has also been taken into account. Special payroll tax, pension For further information see also Provision for estimated expenses 2 10 ​21 future non-vested pensions and Provision for ultimate liability Social insurance costs 378 348 ​22 in Note 23 Pensions on page 75. Terminal charges 320 289 ​23 Forward foreign exchange Other provisions ​24 ­contracts 15 16 Provision for work-related injuries consists of payments in the form of accident annuities as defined in the law on occupatioOther items 651 710 ​25 nal injury insurance, and of occupational injury annuities. Closing balance 3,929 3,917 ​26 Pension settlement with Danish State refers to future com1) Restated due to adjusted report from a subsidiary. ​27 mitments regarding a specific category of salaried employees in the Post Danmark Group. ​28 Provisions for anniversary bonus consist of anticipated future anniversary bonuses in the form of extra pay and ​29 ­holidays awarded when the employee has completed 25 or ​30 40 years of service in the Post Danmark Group. 31 32 33 PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2014 81 Consolidated financial statements NOTE 26 P  LEDGED ASSETS AND Note 29 (cont.) 01 CONTINGENT LIABILITIES 02 03 SEKm Dec. 31, 2014 Dec. 31, 2013 Cash and cash equivalents SEKm Dec. 31, 2014 Dec. 31, 2013 04 Pledged assets for own liabilities Real estate mortgages1) 1,275 1,196 Cash and bank balances, 05 excl. cash in hand 1,502 1,521 Pledged assets2) 57 31 06 Commercial paper 250 295 Total 1,332 1,227 07 Other investments 10 10 Contingent liabilities Unutilized confirmed 08 Guarantees, PRI 93 97 credit facilities 2,000 2,000 09 Guarantees, other 44 144 Total liquidity reserves 3,762 3,826 10 Total 137 241 Unutilized amount, 11 1) Collateral for part of Non-current interest-bearing liabilities. CERT program 2,800 2,800 2) Collateral for part of Non-current receivables. Unutilized amount, 12 MTN program 2,510 3,060 ​13 Disputes Unutilized amount, 14 PostNord conducts national and international operations on other borrowing facilities 154 118 a major scale and so becomes involved in disputes and legal 15 proceedings that from time to time arise in the business. Such Total, unutilized confirmed disputes and legal proceedings are not expected to adversely credit facilities 5,464 5,978 16 affect PostNord’s earnings, profitability or financial position, Total 9,226 9,804 17 either individually or in combination, to any material degree. 18 Debt maturity profile 19 NOTE 27 INVESTMENT COMMITMENTS SEKm ​20 2,000 As of December 31, 2014 the Group had contracted to acquire ​21 property, plant and equipment for a total of SEK 490m (713), 1,500 ​22 relating primarily to sorting equipment and vehicles. Investment commitments of SEK 115m (478) were made in conjun​23 ction with the establishment of Mail & Communication’s new 1,000 ​24 terminal structure in Sweden, and SEK 244m (150) was invested in the replacement of equipment in the business ​25 area’s terminals. It is expected that most commitments will 500 ​26 be settled in early 2015. ​27 0 2015 2016 2017* 2018 2019 After 2020 ​28 NOT 28 STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS, INTEREST Overdraft credit Credit institutions ​29 Cash flow from operating activities includes interest received Commercial paper MTN bonds ​30 of SEK 37m (50) and interest paid of SEK 143m (258). * An unutilized revolving credit facility (RCF) of SEK 2.0bn is in place, 31 maturing in 2017. 32 NOTE 29 F  INANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT Credit risk 33 AND FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS Credit risk refers to the risk that a borrower may be unable to meet his obligations. Credit risk also includes the risk that, The Group’s financial risks are governed by the financial policy where an inability to meet a payment obligation exists, adopted by PostNord’s Board of Directors. The policy consists ­collateral or guarantee furnished may not cover the claim. of guidelines on cash management, financing and financial risk A credit risk arises (i) in sales to customers, in granting management. For a description the Group’s financial risks and advance payments to suppliers and in the acceptance of guapolicy, see the section Risks and risk management. rantees, and (ii) within the Group’s cash management and the PostNord’s financial risks are divided into the categories use of derivative contracts. PostNord applies an extensive of refinancing risk, credit risk and market risk. structure of limits regarding maturities and counterparties in order to manage credit risks. To further limit credit risk, ISDA Refinancing risk agreements are drawn up for interest and currency swaps Refinancing risk is defined as the risk that cash and cash equiand other derivative translations. valents are not available and/or that financing either cannot be obtained or can only be obtained at considerably higher cost. The Group’s refinancing risk policy consists of maintaining, at any one time, payment readiness of a scope that is designed such as to meet internal and external risks, as well as seasonal variations. Furthermore, the maturity structure of the loan portfolio shall be planned and managed such that the Group’s payment readiness is not jeopardized. 82 PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2014 Consolidated financial statements Note 29 (cont.) 01 Credit risk in accounts receivable Translation exposure 02 Credit risk relating to credit sales is managed within the indiviTranslation exposure is defined as the value of equity in foreign 03 dual business areas and all customers are subject to a credit Group companies and arises within the Group in relation to check, before the credit is granted for the first time, on the basis the functional currency of the Parent Company. The major 04 of information provided by the credit rating company. Howeexposures are in DKK, NOK and EUR. The Group’s policy is that ver, major lines of credit require central approval. In 2014, total translation exposure represents a strategic risk. Consequently, 05 accounts receivable amounted to SEK 4,619m (4,632) and the translation exposure is limited only through annual adjustment 06 Group’s confirmed bad debts totaled SEK 20m (25). to the Group companies’ capital structure and when the Parent Company is financed in currencies other than its functional 07 Credit risk in financial activities currency in order to obtain a natural hedge. 08 Credit risk in financial activities are managed by the central financial management function, with a credit limit based on Translation exposure 09 ratings from Moody’s, Standard & Poor’s or other official rating. 10 Dec. 31, 2014 Dec. 31, 2013 Trading is governed via decisions on maximum credit risk per borrower. Every counterparty undergoes a credit check before Currency SEKm % +/–1% SEKm % +/–1% 11 being accepted as a borrower. AUD 2 0.0 2 0 12 DKK 3,149 55.9 31 3,693 60.8 37 ​13 Age breakdown for EUR 379 6.7 4 458 7.6 5 trade receivables Dec. 31, Dec. 31, 14 GBP 96 1.7 1 86 1.4 1 SEKm 2014 2013 15 HKD ​47 0.8 0 31 0.5 0 Trade receivables not due 3,968 4,063 NOK 1,902 33.8 19 1,743 28.7 18 16 Due but not impaired: PLN 36 0.6 0 17 0.3 0 17 1–5 days 283 280 SGD 44 0.8 0 ​21 0.3 0 18 6–20 days 200 163 USD –25 –0.4 0 ​26 0.4 0 19 21–30 days 69 52 Total 5,630 100 55 6,077 100 61 31–60 days 55 53 ​20 61–90 days 35 ​27 Interest rate risk ​21 >90 days 66 52 Interest rate risk is defined as the risk of the Group’s earnings ​22 being adversely affected by changes in market interest rates. Total 4,676 4,690 Interest rate risk is calculated on the basis of the Group’s net ​23 Provision for bad debts –57 –58 indebtedness, including derivative instruments. Shorter fixed​24 interest periods mean higher earnings sensitivity. Longer fixedTotal 4,619 4,632 interest periods mean higher earnings stability but may also be ​25 a disadvantage when market interest rates fall. Interest rate derivatives may only be used to manage underlying loans in ​26 Market risk Currency risk order to adjust the average duration of the loan portfolio. ​27 Currency risk is the risk that the value of a cash flow in a foreign The Group’s policy is to limit earnings sensitivity in the short term in the event of changes in market interest rates and to ​28 currency changes in the event of a change in exchange rates. The Group’s policy is to limit the transaction exposure of Group strive for an attractive cost of cost of capital in the long term. ​29 companies in order to reduce the sensitivity of earnings to Earnings sensitivity is managed via a stress test on the existing net loan portfolio and the anticipated changes in the loan ​30 changes in exchange rates. Currency exposure in a particular currency is measured as the net position. Total currency expoportfolio. At year-end 2014, an increase of +/–1% point gave rise 31 sure is calculated as the sum of the exposure to individual to an impact on income before tax of SEK –7m (–7), all other factors being equal. At year-end, 32% of the Group’s loan portfolio 32 ­currencies. was subject to a variable interest rate, as against 53% in 2013. 33 Transaction exposure Flows of commercial currency are very limited. As a result, only the value of contracted inward and outward payments in foreign currency is included in calculating risk in and hedging of transaction exposure. Transaction exposure arises in relation to the functional ­currency of the individual group companies. Transaction exposure is limited by matching currency flows and by making use primarily of forward currency and currency swap contracts. Currency position 2014 2013 Net Net PosiHedPosiPosiHedPosiCurrency tion ged tion tion ged tion CHF –23 ​23 0 0 0 DKK –429 427 –2 –166 157 –9 EUR –115 89 –26 –150 165 15 GBP –10 8 –2 ​45 –42 3 HKD –6 0 –6 0 0 JPY –7 5 –2 –4 3 –1 NOK 900 –927 –27 372 –389 –17 PLN 0 0 0 44 –44 1 SGD ​13 –12 1 12 –12 0 USD –43 37 –6 –12 19 7 Total 279 –349 –71 142 –144 –2 PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2014 83 Consolidated financial statements Note 29 (cont.) 01 DuraDuraDec. 31, 2014 Next fixedtion, Dec. 31, 2013 Next fixedtion, 02 Debt portfolio interest date SEKm years Debt portfolio interest date SEKm years 03 Property loan, variable interest 06/30/2015 840 0.5 Property loan, variable interest 06/30/2015 788 0.5 04 Property loan, fixed interest 03/31/2015 435 0.2 Property loan, fixed interest 03/31/2015 408 1.2 05 MTN, variable interest 03/20/2015 1,000 0.2 MTN, variable interest 03/20/2014 1,000 0.2 MTN, fixed interest 09/20/2015 1,000 2.6 MTN, fixed interest 09/20/2017 1,000 3.5 06 MTN, variable interest 03/03/2015 390 0.2 MTN, variable interest 03/04/2013 390 0.2 07 MTN, fixed interest 06/03/2015 150 0.4 MTN, fixed interest 06/03/2015 150 1.4 08 MTN, variable interest 06/03/2015 400 0.2 MTN, variable interest 06/12/2019 400 0.2 09 MTN, variable interest 03/12/2015 550 0.0 Commercial paper SEK 1–7bn 200 0.3 Svensk Exportkredit 01/02/2015 200 0.0 Bank overdraft facilities 61 0.0 10 Commercial paper SEK 1–2bn 200 0.1 Total 4,397 1.3 11 Bank overdraft facilities 38 0.0 Interest swap MTN, fixed interest 2–5 years 500 3.3 12 Total 5,203 0.7 Duration of debt portfolio with ​13 Interest swap MTN, fixed interest 1–4 years 500 2.4 interest rate swaps 1.6 Duration of debt portfolio with 14 Investment portfolio interest rate swaps 0.9 15 Accounts 1,816 Investment portfolio 16 Commercial paper 295 0.1 Accounts 1,502 0.0 Total 2,111 0.1 17 Commercial paper 250 0.2 Earnings sensitivity Total 1,752 0.0 18 next 12 months, net –2.7 Earnings sensitivity 19 next 12 months, net –7.0 ​20 Maturity structure of Group’s currency and interest contracts/forward contracts, 2014, nominal amounts ​21 Less than 3–6 6–12 ​22 Maturity structure, Dec. 31, 2014 3 months months months 1–5 years Total ​23 Interest rate derivatives 500 500 SEK, variable to fixed interest ​24 Currency derivatives ​25 CHF 11 9 ​20 ​26 DKK 388 19 14 421 ​27 EUR 85 4 89 GBP 8 8 ​28 HKD –​13 –​13 ​29 JPY 5 5 ​30 NOK –892 –19 –14 –925 PLN –73 –73 31 USD 36 36 32 Total 445 9 4 500 68 33 Maturity structure of Group’s currency and interest contracts/forward contracts, 2013, nominal amounts Less than 3–6 6–12 Maturity structure, Dec. 31, 2013 3 months months months 1–5 years Total Interest rate derivatives SEK, variable to fixed interest 500 500 Currency derivatives CHF 5 5 DKK 157 157 EUR 98 15 ​48 7 168 GBP –42 –42 HKD –11 –11 JPY 2 2 NOK –408 –163 –571 PLN –73 –73 USD ​20 ​20 Total –252 15 –115 507 155 Market risk in assets under management Recognition and fair value measurement Assets are managed by the Group’s related entities Postens of financial instruments Pensionsstiftelse and Postens Försäkringsförening. The Group The fair value of loan liabilities is calculated as the discounted shall strive to ensure that management of pension assets is convalue of future cash flows relating to repayment of capital ducted prudently. The allocation shall be based on regular ALM amounts and interest. The value is discounted to the current analysis to maintain a well-balanced level of risk at any one time. loan interest rate. The entities manage assets that assure payment of certain of In the case of trade receivables and payables with a remainthe Group’s obligations, such as for example future pensions, ing credit period of less than a year, the carrying amount is sickness benefits and family pensions. Management consists considered to represent the fair value. Trade receivables of investing capital in various markets and instruments. and payables with a remaining term of more than a year The Group’s policy is, through board representation, to are ­discounted when the fair value is established. ­promote responsible allocation over various classes of asset. 84 PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2014 Consolidated financial statements Note 29 (cont.) Dec. 31, Dec. 31, Dec. 31, Dec. 31, 2014 2013 2014 2013 01 Carrying amount and fair value Carrying Carrying Carrying amount and fair value Carrying Carrying of financial assets, SEKm amount amount of financial liabilities, SEKm amount amount 02 Financial investments 03 Non-current Endowment insurance at fair value interest-bearing liabilities 04 via the income statement 143 145 Financial liabilities 05 Other financial investments 114 66 at amortized cost1) 4,577 4,315 06 Other financial assets Other non-current liabilities Currency derivatives at fair value 07 Financial liabilities at amortized cost 59 79 via the income statement 12 12 08 Current interest-bearing liabilities Trade receivables Financial liabilities at amortized cost 807 274 09 Trade receivables 4,619 4,632 10 Trade payables Other receivables Financial liabilities at amortized cost 2,010 2,878 11 Terminal settlements at fair value via the income statement 472 334 Other current liabilities 12 Terminal charges at fair value via the ​13 Short-term investments income statement 320 289 Interest-bearing receivables 163 14 Currency derivatives at fair value Cash and cash equivalents via the income statement 15 8 15 Commercial paper at fair value via Interest rate derivatives used for 16 the income statement 250 295 hedge accounting ​20 4 Financial liabilities at amortized cost 1,742 1,974 17 Cash and bank balances 1,593 1,678 Total financial assets 7,203 7,325 Total financial liabilities 9,550 9,821 18 1) The fair value of financial assets and liabilities accords essentially with the 19 carrying amount in the table above. The fair value of financial liabilities at amortized cost is SEK 4,874m (4,196). ​20 ​21 ​22 ​23 Certain of the Group’s financial instruments are recognized at Level 2 ​24 fair value on the basis of the three distinct levels defined in The fair value of financial instruments is determined using IFRS 7, as described in the following. ­valuation models based on other observable market data. ​25 Examples of observable data at level 2 are market interest rates ​26 Level 1 and yield curves. In cases where a listed price is not available, The fair value of financial instruments is calculated on the basis straight interpolation is used. ​27 of listed market prices at the end of the reporting period, with­ ​28 out deduction of transaction costs. Level 1 consists primarily of Level 3 treasury bills and standardized derivatives for which the listed The fair value of financial instruments is determined using ​29 price is used in valuation. At present, the PostNord Group has ­valuation models in which material input data is based on non​30 no financial assets or liabilities based on this level of valuation. observable market data. At present, the PostNord Group has no financial assets or liabilities based on this level of valuation. 31 32 33 Dec. 31, 2014 Dec. 31, 2013 Financial assets and liabilities, by level, SEKm Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Financial assets Endowment insurance 143 145 Currency derivatives 12 12 Terminal settlements 472 334 Commercial paper 250 295 Total financial assets 877 786 Financial liabilities Currency derivatives 15 8 Interest rate derivatives ​20 4 Terminal settlements 320 289 Total financial liabilities 355 301 PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2014 85 Consolidated financial statements 01 NOTE 30 RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS 02 03 Group companies Other organizations in Sweden 04 For deliveries of services and products between Group compaPostNords Försäkringsförening operates autonomously from nies, the principle of cost price plus a margin is used, except for the PostNord Group and under the supervision of Finansin05 services within the PostNord offering, where market prices spektionen. Försäkringsföreningen insures PostNord’s obliga06 apply. For a detailed list of Parent Company and Group particitions relating to employee sickness and family pension under pations in Group companies, associated companies and joint the ITP-P scheme. During the period, the Group’s Swedish com07 ventures, see Note 6 to the Parent Company’s financial panies received benefits totaling SEK 7m (7). In view of its well 08 ­statements on page 92. consolidated position, Försäkringsföreningen has not charged any premiums since 2011. 09 The Swedish State Postens Pensionsstiftelse manages pension obligations on 10 Under Sweden’s Postal Services Act, PostNord is mandated by behalf of Posten AB, Posten Meddelande AB and PostNord the Swedish State to provide a universal postal service. Like Logistics AB. These companies capitalize new pension obliga11 other postal operators in Sweden, PostNord must obtain a tions at Pensionsstifelsen and are credited with pensions paid 12 license to operate postal services. For this license, PostNord out. During the period a total of SEK 771m (111) was capitalized paid SEK 15m (15) to the Swedish Post and Telecom Authority and SEK 771m (0) was credited. Credits totaling SEK 771m ​13 (PTS) during the period. In addition, PostNord paid PTS represent pension payments made in 2014. 14 SEK 10m (9) for handling of “undeliverable” mail. PostNord received SEK 24m (25) from PTS in remuneration Senior executives 15 under agreements on the procurement of postal services for For more information on salaries and other remuneration to 16 the disabled. senior executives and Board members, see Note 5 Employees, Posten AB lent SEK 45m (50) to the Swedish Transport personnel expenses and executive remuneration on page 68. 17 Administration in order to bring forward the construction of All members of the Group Board of Directors and the Group rail acilities for the Rosersberg Mail Terminal. Posten AB has Executive Team at PostNord have been requested to notify in 18 undertaken to advance a provisional amount of SEK 130m, writing any business relationships they have with PostNord 19 and has now lent a total of SEK 95m. and whether such were established on a commercial basis. It was disclosed that Per Samuelson, a member of the Group ​20 The Danish State Executive Team, holds all shares outstanding in BTJ Holding ​21 During the period, the Danish State paid pension premiums to Sverige AB, which in turns holds 55% of the shares outstanding the Danish State in the amount of SEK 165m (170) on behalf of in BTJ Sverige AB. BTJ Sverige AB procures logistics services ​22 the group of salaried employees who were employed before from PostNord Logistics AB on a commercial basis. ​23 corporatization. In addition, a provision of SEK 3m (12) is made in the balance sheet to cover any further commitments on ​24 behalf of the same group. ​25 ​26 NOTE 31 ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTMENTS ​27 2014 2013 Effect of acquisitions and divestments AcquisiDivestAcquisiDivest​28 on assets and liabilities, SEKm tions ments Total tions ments Total ​29 Goodwill 167 167 ​30 Intangible assets 8 8 ​30 ​30 31 Property, plant and equipment 401 401 193 193 32 Other non-current assets ​24 ​24 Total non-current assets 433 433 390 390 33 Current assets ​25 ​25 86 86 TOTAL ASSETS 458 458 476 476 TOTAL LIABILITIES –351 –351 –175 –1 –176 NET ASSETS 107 107 301 –1 300 Capital gain on divested operations/Group company –1 –1 Other items affecting cash flow 3 3 –54 –54 Purchase consideration paid/received –107 –107 –301 –301 Cash and cash equivalents (acquired/divested) 19 19 19 19 Net effect on cash and cash equivalents –85 –85 –336 –336 Acquisition of subsidiaries The company’s net sales in 2014 totaled SEK 11m. Net sales On July 2, 2013, Posten AB (renamed as PostNord Group on during the period of PostNord’s ownership, July–December, January 1, 2015) signed an agreement with Bulk Eiendom AS to amounted to SEK 11m. The company has only an internal lease acquire all shares outstanding in Bulk Langhus 1 AS, after the with the Group for leasing of the terminal to PostNord Logistics company had constructed a logistics terminal just outside AS. Income in 2014 totaled SEK 9m. Income in the period in Oslo. In 2013, PostNord refinanced the company and financed which the company was part of the PostNord Group amounted the build-up of the terminal, occupancy of which was taken up to SEK 9m. The surplus values on the property, arising in the on July 2, 2014. The business was consolidated in PostNord’s Group through the acquisition, have been depreciated accoraccounts as of July 1, 2014. The company has been renamed ding to plan by SEK –2m. The acquisition contributed SEK 7m PostNord Terminal Langhus AS. to Group income. The purchase consideration for the shares was SEK 94m Two other minor acquisitions were also made during the and Posten AB had at the time of taking ownership of the year. The purchase consideration amounted to SEK 13m. ­shares issued a loan of NOK 260m to the company. On July 1, 2014, the company became part of Business area Logistics. The acquisition analysis indicated surplus values on property and land. 86 PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2014 Consolidated financial statements Note 31 (cont.) 01 02 Property, Other Intangible plant and non-current Current 03 2014 Jan–Dec, SEKm Goodwill assets equipment assets assets Liabilities Net assets 04 Acquired 05 PostNord Terminal Langhus AS 388 ​24 ​23 –341 94 Logsite ApS 8 2 –4 6 06 Fast AB Rosersberg 11:126 ​13 –6 7 07 Total acquired 8 401 ​24 ​25 –351 107 08 09 10 Property, Other Intangible plant and non-current Current 11 2013 Jan–Dec, SEKm Goodwill assets equipment assets assets Liabilities Net assets 12 Acquired ​13 Distribution Services A/S 95 93 ​21 –35 174 Nordisk Kyl Logistik AB ​46 9 86 ​25 –103 63 14 Transbothnia AB ​26 ​21 2 40 –37 52 15 Rosersberg Brevterminal AB, 16 ­additional payment 12 12 17 Total acquired 167 ​30 193 86 –175 301 18 Divested 19 Tidningstorget AB –1 –1 Total divested –1 –1 ​20 ​21 ​22 ​23 ​24 ​25 NOTE 32 EVENTS AFTER THE REPORTING PERIOD ​26 No significant events have occurred since the end of the ​27 period, see page 26. ​28 ​29 ​30 31 32 33 PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2014 87 Consolidated financial statements NOTE 33 DEFINITIONS 01 02 Adjusted income Net debt 03 Income less operating expenses excluding items that are conNew definition effective 2014. Interest-bearing debt (including 04 sidered to affect comparability. These items consist mainly of pension provisions) less cash and cash equivalents, financial provisions for restructuring activities (that cannot be regarded receivables and current interest-bearing receivables. (Non05 as falling within the scope of the ongoing restructuring profinancial receivables and current interest-bearing receivables 06 cess), major impairments and capital gains/losses. were not previously included.) 07 Adjusted operating margin Net debt/EBITDA 08 Adjusted operating income as a percentage of income Net debt divided by EBITDA (rolling 12-month). (net sales and other income). 09 Net debt ratio 10 ADM (addressed direct mail) Net debt divided by equity. Direct mail personally addressed to an individual. ADM is sent 11 with a personal message when companies want to build relaNon-priority mail 12 tionships with existing customers and identify new customers. Mail processed in a production stream for distribution within three business days after mailing. ​13 Average number of employees 14 The total number of paid employee hours divided by the Operating margin ­standard number of hours for a full-time employee during Operating income as a percentage of income (net sales and 15 the cumulative period from the beginning of the year. other operating income). The calculation of operating margin 16 by business area includes sales to other business operations C-mail and to Parent Company functions. 17 In Denmark, mail with special posting conditions processed in a production stream for distribution within two to four days Priority mail 18 after mailing. Mail processed in a production stream for delivery on the 19 first business day after mailing. Capital employed ​20 New definition effective 2014. Non-interest-bearing assets less Return on capital employed (ROCE) ​21 non-interest-bearing liabilities (tax and provisions were not Operating income for the 12 months to the end of the period ­previously included in calculation). divided by average capital employed for the 12 months to ​22 the end of the period. ​23 Earnings per share Share of net earnings attributable to Parent Company shareUDM (unaddressed direct mail) ​24 holders divided by the average number of shares outstanding. Direct mail sent without personal address by companies that, ​25 for instance, do not have their own client register or that wish EBITDA to reach a new target Group. Through UDM, the customer has ​26 Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciations and the option of reaching out widely to all national households or ​27 ­amortizations/impairments. businesses or targeting mailings to a specific audience. ​28 Financial preparedness ​29 Cash and cash equivalents and unutilized committed ­credit line. ​30 31 32 33 88 PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2014 Parent Company Financial Statements Parent Company Income statement Balance sheet Dec. 31, Dec. 31, SEKm Note 2014 2013 SEKm Note 2014 2013 1, 2 1, 2 Other operating income ​20 ​24 ASSETS Income ​20 ​24 Non-current assets Participations in Personnel expenses 3 –32 –24 Group companies 6 11,676 11,676 Other expenses 4 –8 –12 Interest-bearing receivables 9 8 Expenses –40 –36 Total non-current assets 11,685 11,684 OPERATING INCOME –20 –12 Current assets Interest-bearing receivables Dividends on shares from Group companies 8,856 8,043 in subsidiaries 200 773 Other receivables Write-down on shares from Group companies 183 95 in subsidiaries 6 –800 Prepaid expenses and accrued Interest income and financial income 4 5 income items 5 ​13 40 Total current assets 9,043 8,143 Interest expense and financial TOTAL ASSETS 20,728 19,827 expense items 5 –183 –123 Financial items ​30 –110 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Income after financial items 10 –122 Restricted equity Capital stock 2,000 2,000 Group contributions received 182 92 Share premium reserve 10,141 10,141 Appropriations 182 92 Non-restricted equity Income before tax 192 –30 Retained earnings 3,438 3,597 Tax Net income 192 –30 NET INCOME 192 –30 TOTAL EQUITY 15,771 15,708 LIABILITIES Interest-bearing liabilities 4,183 3,905 Total non-current liabilities 4,183 3,905 Statement of comprehensive income Liabilities to Group companies 541 Other operating liabilities 201 201 SEKm 2014 2013 Accrued expenses Net income 192 –30 and deferred income 32 ​13 Other comprehensive income Total non-interest-bearing for the period liabilities 774 214 COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 192 –30 Total current liabilities 774 214 TOTAL LIABILITIES 4,957 4,119 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 20,728 19,827 PLEDGED ASSETS AND ­CONTINGENT LIABILITIES Pledged assets none none Contingent liabilities Guarantees, PRI 136 140 Guarantees on behalf of subsidiaries 550 381 Total 686 521 PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2014 89 Parent Company Financial Statements Parent Company statement of cash flows SEKm 2014 2013 OPERATING ACTIVITIES Income before tax 192 –30 Appropriations –182 –92 Adjustments for non-cash items 68 825 Cash flows from operating activities before changes in working capital 78 703 Cash flow from changes in working capital Increase (–)/decrease (+) in operating receivables 3 1 Increase (+)/decrease (–) in operating liabilities ​20 –3 Changes in working capital ​23 –2 Cash flows from operating activities 101 701 INVESTING ACTIVITIES Changes in Group receivables –814 1,789 Cash flow from investing activities –814 –1,789 FINANCING ACTIVITIES Borrowings 1,350 1,345 Amortization of loans –600 –200 Dividend paid to Parent Company owner –129 –103 Group contributions received 92 ​46 Cash flows from financing activities 713 1,088 CASH FLOWS FOR THE PERIOD 0 0 Cash and cash equivalents at start of year 0 0 Cash and cash equivalents at year-end 0 0 Parent Company changes in equity Restricted equity Non-restricted equity Share Retained earnings premium incl. net income SEKm Capital stock1) reserve for the year Total Opening balance, 01/01/2013 2,000 10,141 3,700 15,841 Comprehensive income for the period –30 –30 Dividends –103 –103 Closing balance, 12/31/2013 2,000 10,141 3,567 15,708 Shareholders’ equity, opening balance 01/01/2014 2,000 10,141 3,567 15,708 Comprehensive income for the period 192 192 Dividends –129 –129 Shareholders’ equity, closing balance 12/31/2014 2,000 10,141 3,630 15,771 1) Number of shares 2,000,000,001: 1,524,905,971 ordinary shares and 475,094,030 series B shares. 90 PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2014 Parent Company Financial Statements Notes to Parent Company 01 02 financial statements 03 04 NOTE 1 ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES Shares in subsidiaries 05 Assumptions are made about future conditions in order to cal­ 06 The Parent Company mainly applies the same accounting culate future cash flows that determine the recoverable value. ­principles as the Group, and thus RFR 2, Accounting for Legal The recoverable value is compared with the recognized value Entities. The differences between the Parent Company’s and for these assets and represents the basis for possible impair­ the Group’s accounting principles result from limits on the ment or reversals. The assumptions that most affect the reco­ Parent Company to apply IFRS under the Annual Accounts Act, verable value are future changes in income, discount rate and the Act on Safeguarding of Pension Commitments (Tryggande­ estimated useful life of the asset. If future environmental fac­ lagen) and, to some extent, tax considerations. tors and circumstances change, these assumptions may be affected so that the recognized values of the Parent Company’s Participations in associated companies assets change. and joint ventures Participations in subsidiaries, associated companies and joint ventures are recognized in the Parent Company in accordance NOTE 3 EMPLOYEES AND PERSONNEL EXPENSES with the cost method. Personnel expenses, SEKm 2014 2013 Dividends Dividends from subsidiaries, associated companies and joint Salaries and other remuneration 19 15 ventures are recognized as income when the right to distribu­ Statutory social insurance costs 7 5 tion has been determined. Pension expenses 6 4 Anticipated dividends from subsidiaries are recognized if the Parent Company has the sole right to determine the size Total 32 ​24 of the dividend and has determined the size of the dividend The Parent Company has three employees, the President and before publishing its financial statements. Group CEO, the Group CFO and the Group Head of Strategy. If the carrying amount for the Parent Company’s holding in The President and Group CEO Håkan Ericsson is paid a salary the subsidiary, associated company or joint venture company of SEK 745,000 per month. On his behalf, the Parent Company exceeds the carrying amount in the financial statements, this pays for a retirement pension insurance policy in the amount is taken as an indication that an impairment loss has arisen of SEK 37,000 per month, and an endowment insurance policy and an impairment test is to be performed. in the amount of SEK 185,667 to secure the pension obligation. Group contributions are recognized as appropriations. Employee benefits Pension obligations on behalf of salaried employees, which NOTE 4 F  EES AND REIMBURSEMENT OF EXPENSES TO obligations are secured via pension insurance policies, are AUDITORS recognized in the Parent Company under the heading ­D efined-contribution plan. Other pension expenses are SEKm 2014 2013 ­charged to income Auditing assignments Financial guarantees KPMG 1 1 The Parent Company’s financial guarantees consist of guaran­ Total 1 1 tees on behalf of subsidiaries and joint ventures. Under finan­ cial guarantees, the Company has an obligation to compensate Audit assignments refers to the audit of the annual report and holders of debt instruments in respect of losses that the latter accounting records, as well as the Board of Directors’ and the incurs by reason of a specified debtor failing to make payment President & Group CEO’s administration of the Company, other when due in accordance with the terms of the contract. In tasks incumbent on the Company’s auditor and advice or other reporting financial guarantee agreements, the Parent Com­ assistance resulting from observations made during such pany applies RFR 2, a lighter regime than IAS 39 regarding audits or the performance of such other tasks. The expense financial guarantee agreements issued on behalf of subsidia­ is recognized under the heading Other expenses. ries, associated companies and joint ventures. The Parent Company recognizes financial guarantee agreements as an appropriation on the balance sheet in cases where PostNord is NOTE 5 I NTEREST INCOME, INCOME EXPENSES under an obligation for which payment is likely to be required AND SIMILAR INCOME ITEMS to settle the obligation. Taxes SEKm 2014 2013 In the Parent Company, untaxed reserves are recognized Interest income from Group companies ​13 40 ­including deferred tax liabilities. Currency earnings Segment reporting Total ​13 40 The Parent Company’s business consist only of one activity, Interest expense from Group companies –7 –2 the management of Group functions. Interest expense –85 –82 Currency earnings –79 –28 NOTE 2 M ATERIAL ASSESSMENTS AND ESTIMATES Other financial expenses –12 –11 Total –183 –123 When preparing the financial statements, management has made assessments and estimates that affect the Group’s For more information, see Note 29 Financial risk management reporting. These assessments and estimates are based on and financial instruments in Notes to the financial Statements what was known at the time the accounts were presented, and on page 82. on historic experience and the assumptions that management considers reasonable in the given circumstances. The conclu­ sions that management has drawn are the basis on which amounts are stated. Actual outcomes, assessments and esti­ mates in future financial statements over the year ahead may deviate from those contained in this report as a result of chan­ ges in external circumstances and newly gained experience. PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2014 91 Parent Company Financial Statements NOTE 6 H  OLDINGS OF SHARES AND PARTICIPATIONS 01 IN GROUP COMPANIES, JOINT VENTURES AND 02 ASSOCIATED COMPANIES 03 SEKm 2014 2013 04 Acquisition cost 05 At start of year 12,476 12,476 06 Shareholder contributions paid 4,587 Disposals –5,387 At year-end 11,676 12,476 Accumulated impairment losses At start of year –800 Impairment losses for the year –800 Disposals 800 At year-end –800 Closing balance 11,676 11,676 Carrying Share of equity, % amount in Shares held directly and Corporate Parent indirectly by Parent Company ­registration No. of ­Company PostNord AB, SEKm ­number Registered office Country Direct Indirect shares Dec. 31, 2014 Dormant Posten AB, being renamed as PostNord Group AB. 556128-6559 Solna Sweden 100 600,000 11,676 P  osten Meddelande AB, being renamed as PostNord Sverige AB 556711-5695 Solna Sweden 100 1,000 Strålfors AB 556062-0618 Malmö Sweden 100 21,381,288 Strålforsbolagen AB 556158-7006 Ljungby Sweden 100 1,000 d Strålfors Svenska AB 556102-9843 Ljungby Sweden 100 5,000 Tand 2:103 Fastighets AB 556594-3650 Östersund Sweden 50 2,000 EsonPac Group AB 556838-0868 Varberg Sweden ​48 4,800 Strålfors A/S 10068657 Brøndby Denmark 100 200,000 Strålfors Oy 0115061-7 Helsinki Finland 100 2,100 Stralfors SAS 77572776100063 Paris France 100 620,776 Strålfors AS 944997431 Oslo Norway 100 200 Stralfors Sp.zO.o 000296330 Laskowice Poland 100 2,000 Friends Tactics Sweden AB 556888-3820 Stockholm Sweden ​30 600 S  tralfors (UK) Ltd., United in process of liquidation 00928859 Redruth ­Kingdom 100 100 C  hacewater Properties Ltd., United in process of liquidation 03905657 Redruth ­Kingdom 100 1,000 d D  PS Holding Ltd., United in process of liquidation 03239427 Orpington ­Kingdom 100 45,000 d D  PS Direct Mail Ltd. United in process of liquidation 02683284 Orpington ­Kingdom 100 45,000 d United Stralfors plc 01626027 Redruth ­Kingdom 100 600,000 Th Stralfors (Data Products) United Ltd. in process of liquidation 02683284 Redruth ­Kingdom 100 10,000 d Direct Link Worldwide GmbH 217864281 Mörfelden-Walldorf Germany 100 150 PostNord Logistics GmbH HRB8888HL Lübeck Germany 100 1 PostNord AS 984054564 Oslo Norway 100 117,570 PostNord Logistics AB 556711-5380 Solna Sweden 100 1,000 Nils Hansson Logistics AB 556147-4254 Ljungbyhed Sweden 100 2,500 PostNord Oy 1056251-7 Vanda Finland 100 5,817 PostNord OY Eesti filiaal 11472268 Harju Estonia 100 PostNord Logistics app A/S 20148586 Copenhagen Denmark 100 500,001 Swedish Adressändring AB 556476-3562 Stockholm Sweden 85 850 Tidningstjänst AB 556039-7480 Stockholm Sweden 100 7,500 Great Direct Link Worldwide Ltd. 2911080 Middlesex ­Britain 100 110,000 Addresspoint AB 556587-5597 Stockholm Sweden 85 1,700 Posten Leasing AB 556341-0009 Stockholm Sweden 100 5,000 92 PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2014 Parent Company Financial Statements Note 6 (cont.) 01 Carrying 02 Capital interest, % amount in Shares held directly and Corporate Parent 03 indirectly by Parent Company ­registration No. of ­Company 04 PostNord AB, SEKm ­number Registered office Country Direct Indirect shares Dec. 31, 2014 Dormant 05 Direct Link Worldwide Inc. 112-797-736/000 New Jersey USA 100 100 Direct Link Worldwide AS 994072889 Oslo Norway 100 1,000 06 Fastighets AB Penelope 556517-0544 Stockholm Sweden 100 100 N ässjöterminalen ­Kommanditbolag 916629-7458 Solna Sweden 100 Posten Scanning AB 556824-2852 Stockholm Sweden 100 1,000 Data Scanning Finland Ab 2552507-3 Helsinki Finland 100 1,000 Rosersberg Brevterminal AB 556819-9862 Stockholm Sweden 100 1,000 Hallsberg Brevterminal AB 556848-8133 Stockholm Sweden 100 500 D  irect Link Worldwide ­ Distribution Pte. Ltd 199700772 Singapore Singapore 100 700,000 Direct Link Worldwide Pty. Ltd 095493459 Sydney Australia 100 1 D irect Link Worldwide ­Company Ltd. 199700772 Hong Kong China 100 1 PostNord Logistics app TPL AB 556161-7191 Haninge Sweden 100 50,000 P  ostNord Logistics app TPL A/S 22115396 Brøndby Denmark 100 100 PostNord Fulfillment AB 556234-1353 Stockholm Sweden 100 1,000 KB Sveterm 916631-9492 Stockholm Sweden 100 d Kardinalmärket 1 AB 556875-8899 Stockholm Sweden 100 50,000 Fastighets AB Skogskojan 1 556972-7547 Solna Sweden 100 500 Property AB Rosersberg 11:126 556743-9574 Stockholm Sweden 100 1,000 PostNord Terminal Langhus AS 990427321 Oslo Norway 100 200,000 P  ostNord Logistics app Thermo AB 556454-1737 Östersund Sweden 100 8,000 Transbothnia AB 556278-8876 Umeå Sweden 100 3,000 PostNord Fulfillment Sp.zO.o 5272719788 Warsaw Poland 100 100 Post Danmark A/S 26663903 Copenhagen Denmark 100 25,000,000 Data Scanning A/S 19803376 Copenhagen Denmark 100 10 Post Fleet Management A/S 79203114 Hvidovre Denmark 100 400 e-Boks A/S 25674154 Ballerup Denmark 50 6,000,000 Distribution Services A/S 56448810 Copenhagen Denmark 100 ​30 Logsite ApS 30733975 Ishøj Denmark 100 126,000 Total holdings in Group companies 11,676 PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2014 93 The Board of Directors’ and President and Group CEO’s certification The Board of Directors’ and President and Group CEO’s certification The Board of Directors and the President and Group CEO hereby declare that the annual accounts have been prepared in ­accordance with generally accepted accounting practice in Sweden and that the consolidated accounts have been prepared in accordance with the International Financial Reporting Standards as referred to in Regulation (EC) No. 1606/2002/EC of the ­European Parliament and of the Council dated July 19, 2002 on the application of international accounting standards. The annual accounts and the consolidated accounts give a true and fair view of the financial position and results of the Parent Company and the Group. Nothing of material importance has been omitted that might affect the view of the Company created by the annual report. The administration report for the Parent Company and the Group provides a true and fair picture of the development of the operations, financial position and performance of the Parent Company and the Group and also describes material risks and uncertainties to which the Parent Company and the other companies in the Group are exposed. The annual accounts and ­consolidated accounts were approved for publication by the Board and the President and Group CEO on February 26, 2015. Solna, February 26, 2015 Jens Moberg Chairman of the Board Mats Abrahamsson Director Gunnel Duveblad Christian Ellegaard Sisse Fjelsted Rasmussen Director Director Director Torben Janholt Magnus Skåninger Anitra Steen Director Director Director Lars Chemnitz Alf Mellström Ann-Christin Fällén Employee Representative Employee Representative Employee Representative Håkan Ericsson President and Group CEO Our Audit Report was submitted on March 3, 2015 KPMG AB Helene Willberg Authorized Public Accountant 94 PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2014 Auditor's report Auditor’s report To the annual meeting of the shareholders of PostNord AB, corp. id. 556771-2640 Report on the annual accounts p ­ erformance and cash flows for the year then ended in accor­ and consolidated accounts dance with International Financial Reporting Standards, as We have audited the annual accounts and consolidated adopted by the EU, and the Annual Accounts Act. A corporate accounts of PostNord AB for the year 2014. The annual governance statement has been prepared. The statutory admi­ accounts and consolidated accounts of the company are nistration report and the corporate governance statement are ­included in the printed version of this document on pages consistent with the other parts of the annual accounts and through 6–11, 24–26, the section on environmentally licensed ­consolidated accounts. operations on page 31 and pages 45–94. We therefore recommend that the annual meeting of share­ holders adopt the income statement and balance sheet for the Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and Parent Company and the income statement and statement of the President and Group CEO for the annual accounts financial position for the Group. and consolidated accounts The Board of Directors and the President and Group CEO are Report on other legal and regulatory requirements responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of these In addition to our audit of the annual accounts and consolida­ annual accounts in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act ted accounts, we have also audited the proposed appropria­ and of the consolidated accounts in accordance with Interna­ tions of the company’s profit or loss and the administration tional Financial Reporting Standards, as adopted by the EU, of the Board of Directors and the President and Group CEO and the Annual Accounts Act, and for such internal control as of PostNord AB for the year 2014. the Board of Directors and the President and Group CEO ­determine is necessary to enable the preparation of annual Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and accounts and consolidated accounts that are free from the President and Group CEO ­material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. The Board of Directors is responsible for the proposal for ­appropriations of the company’s profit or loss, and the Board Auditor’s responsibility of Directors and the President and Group CEO are responsible Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these annual for administration under the Companies Act. accounts and consolidated accounts based on our audit. We conducted our audit in accordance with International Stan­ Auditor’s responsibility dards on Auditing and generally accepted auditing standards Our responsibility is to express an opinion with reasonable in Sweden. Those standards require that we comply with ethi­ assurance on the proposed appropriations of the company’s cal requirements and plan and perform the audit to obtain profit or loss and on the administration based on our audit. We reasonable assurance about whether the annual accounts and conducted the audit in accordance with generally accepted consolidated accounts are free from material misstatement. auditing standards in Sweden. An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evi­ As basis for our opinion on the Board of Directors’ proposed dence about the amounts and disclosures in the annual appropriations of the company’s profit or loss, we examined accounts and consolidated accounts. The procedures selected whether the proposal is in accordance with the Companies Act. depend on the auditor’s judgment, including the assessment As basis for our opinion concerning discharge from liability, of the risks of material misstatement of the annual accounts in addition to our audit of the annual accounts and consolida­ and consolidated accounts, whether due to fraud or error. In ted accounts, we examined significant decisions, actions taken making those risk assessments, the auditor considers internal and circumstances of the company in order to determine control relevant to the company’s preparation and fair presen­ whether any member of the Board of Directors or the Presi­ tation of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts in dent and Group CEO is liable to the company. We also exami­ order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the ned whether any member of the Board of Directors or the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opi­ ­President and Group CEO has, in any other way, acted in cont­ nion on the effectiveness of the company’s internal control. ravention of the Companies Act, the Annual Accounts Act or An audit also includes evaluating the appropriateness of the Articles of Association. accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accoun­ We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is ting estimates made by the Board of Directors and the Presi­ ­sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinions. dent and Group CEO, as well as evaluating the overall presenta­ tion of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts. Opinions We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is suffi­ We recommend to the annual meeting of shareholders that cient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinions. the profit be appropriated in accordance with the proposal in the statutory administration report and that the members of Opinions the Board of Directors and the President and Group CEO be In our opinion, the annual accounts have been prepared in discharged from liability for the financial year. accordance with the Annual Accounts Act and present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the Parent Com­ Stockholm, March 3, 2015 pany as of December 31, 2014 and of its financial performance KPMG AB and its cash flows for the year then ended in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act. The consolidated accounts have been prepared in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act and present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position Helene Willberg of the Group as of December 31, 2014 and of their financial Authorized Public Accountant PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2014 95 Five-year review Five-year review SEKm, unless otherwise specified 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 PostNord Group1) Net sales 41,669 39,466 38,920 39,533 39,950 Other operating income 289 274 253 233 632 Operating expenses –40,589 –38,167 –38,669 –39,114 –40,247 of which, personnel expenses –20,551 –19,110 –18,338 –18,626 –18,212 of which, transportation expenses –7,384 –7,540 –8,084 –8,953 –9,832 of which, other expenses –10,737 –9,851 –10,348 –9,887 –10,356 of which, depreciation and impairments –1,917 –1,666 –1,899 –1,648 –1,847 Operating income (EBITDA) 3,292 3,237 2,410 2,310 2,198 Operating margin (EBITDA), % 7.8 8.1 6.2 5.8 5.4 Operating income (EBIT) 1,375 1,571 511 662 351 Operating margin (EBIT), % 3.3 4.0 1.3 1.7 0.9 Net income 1,031 1,225 247 306 176 Cash flows from operating activities 1,824 1,634 1,825 1,657 670 Net debt –728 578 4,299 1,624 3,672 Return on capital employed, % 6.0 3.1 Average number of employees 44,060 41,714 39,713 39,305 37,976 Number of employees at end of period 51,405 48,568 49,297 47,667 44,859 of which, temporary employees 9,906 9,871 10,473 10,180 8,793 Volumes, millions Denmark, priority mail 602 411 320 278 237 Denmark, non-priority and business mail 283 366 365 337 308 Denmark, parcels 41 37 39 39 42 Sweden, priority mail 1,045 980 925 912 880 Sweden, non-priority mail 1,266 1,251 1,198 1,144 1,103 Sweden, parcels 59 61 66 72 80 1) Figures prior to 2012 have not been restated due to IAS 19 Revised, Employee Benefits. 96 PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2014 ECOLA DIC B N OR EL 341 142 PRINTED MATTER Swan marked printed matter. Photographers: Oskar Lundgren, Peter Phillips, Mads Armgaard, Kalle von Hauswolf, Peter Phillips, Henric Lindsten, Erik Ardelius, Håkan Johansson, Kam Photographers, GAB Photography and others.. Production: PostNord in partnership with Hallvarsson & Halvarsson. Print: Ineko. postnord.com
