www.hcltech.com Rebalance For 2014 and beyond Together to build a better ecosystem, a better future This Business Responsibility Report has been created by a core team of employees who have participated and contributed towards HCL’s responsible actions including areas of governance, human resources and human rights, supply chain, environment and communities. At HCL, we believe in involving key stakeholders especially employees in leading change. For this, we invest in work places that enable employees to assume the role of ideapreneurs. Our ideapreneurs not only ideate change, but like any entrepreneur, take responsibility to implement the change. While doing so, they believe in upholding HCL’s culture of establishing Relationship Beyond the Contract™ with all partner stakeholders—be it customers, community, academia, investors and many more. Our ‘Employees First’ philosophy, which is built on core values of Trust, Transparency and Flexibility, is the key driver for the 99000 employee ideapreneurs to constantly look for ways to create value and together, build a better ecosystem for a better future. 2 Contents Business Responsibility Report KPI mapping 4 About HCL Technologies 9 Our Global Operations 10 From the Sustainability Desk 11 Scope of our Report 12 Our Stakeholder Engagement and Sustainability Priorities 13 Materiality Matrix 14 Sustainability 10 by 2020 – Our Goals and Milestones 15 Responsible Business 17 Ideapreneurs led business solutions 19 Redefine Workplace 30 Renew Ecosystem 41 repay society 52 ADVOCACY 63 CONCLUSION 65 Annexure I: Management Approach and Policies 66 Annexure II: Additional Information pertaining to GRI guidelines 73 3 Business Responsibility Report KPI mapping Sr. Core Principle Key Performance Indicators SR Section SR Page 1 Ethics, • Independent Director responsible for Procurement Policy in 10 and 63 transparency and overseeing BR performance Annexure I: accountability • Code of Ethics and Conduct Management Approach and Policies • Code of Conduct for Suppliers / Business Core Principle KPIs Business Core Principle Aspect KPIs • Partners / Stakeholder complaint resolution mechanism 2 Product life cycle • Sustainable / Green procurement policy Responsible Business 26 sustainability • Buildings and infrastructure solutions for section socially marginalized sections • Investment products and solutions to promote green technologies • Initiatives to promote paperless transactions for customers • Office Green Policy to promote reduction in paper usage 3 Employees’ • No. of regular and contract employees Redefine Workplace 34 wellbeing • No. of women employees and section employees who are differently-abled • Non-discrimination / Anti-sexual harassment policy • Employee grievances / complaints on sexual harassment / discrimination • Safety policy and performance • No. of employees provided with skill upgradation and office safety training 4 Stakeholder • Mapping of internal and external Our Stakeholder 13 engagement stakeholders Engagement and • Engagement mechanisms (formal and Sustainability Priorities informal) with internal and external section stakeholders • Issues of interest / concern for internal and external stakeholders • Mapping of disadvantaged, vulnerable and marginalized stakeholders, if any • Engagement mechanisms (formal and informal) with disadvantaged, vulnerable and marginalized stakeholders • Issues of interest / concern for disadvantaged, vulnerable and marginalized stakeholders • Business Responsibility Reporting 4 Sr. Core Principle Key Performance Indicators SR Section SR Page 5 Human rights • Human rights policy Procurement 65 • Human rights policy for suppliers/ Policy in business partners Annexure I: Management • No. of stakeholder complaints on Approach and Policies human rights issues • No. of stakeholder complaints on human rights issues resolved 6 Environment • Environment policy Annexure I: 66 and 40 • Environment policy for suppliers/ Environment business partners policy and Renew Ecosystem section • Climate change policy and initiative to adapt to / mitigate climate change • Environmental risks • Energy efficiency measures and use of renewable energy • E-waste / office waste disposed 7 Policy advocacy • Trade / industry association Annexure I: 68 memberships Management • Issues advocated through these Approach and memberships (e.g., Healthcare reforms, Policies, Key Research and Development etc.,) Membership Forums & Engagements 8 Inclusive growth • Community development / CSR Repay Society section 52 initiatives • Impact assessment of community development / CSR initiatives • Community development/ CSR expenditure • Initiatives to improve financial literacy and access to financial resources for poor and the marginalized groups 9 Customer value • Percentage of customer complaints / Annexure I: 65 cases pending Management • Product / Service information disclosure Approach and Policies to customer • Cases filed against the company by stakeholders regarding unfair trade practices, irresponsible advertising and/ or anti-competitive behavior during the last five years • No. of such cases pending • Consumer surveys / customer satisfaction surveys conducted 5 Shiv Nadar, Chairman & Chief Strategy Officer, HCL Technologies “Our leadership has been driven by our commitment towards sustainability, diversity and trust through transparency. With an emergence of an increasingly positive macro environment, these values will continue to be HCL’s key differentiators and provide an impetus to our future growth.” 6 Sustainability is about working and building Relationships Beyond the Contract Anant Gupta, CEO, HCL Technologies As a billiards enthusiast, I learned the value of combination shots very early on—in the game and in business. Every strike aims beyond the immediate target and, in turn, is a part of a well-synchronized series of shots in each break. At work, as we check off our ‘to do list’ each day, we are acutely aware that every step we take not only delivers on our immediate contracted commitments but is a part of a well-synchronized effort to build lasting value and relationships beyond the contract. It’s been a few years since we began our journey towards sustainability. We are all quite aware of the fact that sustainability is no quick fix solution. But then, nor are relationships. Neither thrives on contracts. They both require deep commitment to doing what is right. And it gives me immeasurable satisfaction to share that our commitment to both is now an intrinsic part of our business. A contract is an agreement, a deal, a treaty with all its legalese and disclaimers. A relationship on the other hand is an association, a connection, a symbiotic partnership built on mutual respect and benefit. A relationship beyond that contract therefore means that you respect and understand the value of a lasting relationship enough that you strive not just to meet the terms of the contract but to create sustainable value for your client—pushing boundaries, redefining success. As such, profitability is but one measure of our success. Our business decisions are influenced by the aspirations and concerns of our stakeholders, as part of a larger community, who expect long-term value creation and a positive contribution to the worldwide effort to protect and nurture the quality of life on our planet. Among the imperatives of business in this century is to collectively respond to global challenges like the shortage of resources and the impact of climate change, while meeting our financial targets. And to do so, we need to ask ourselves at each step: What can I do with right now to make a difference? As you will read on, we have 90,000 plus Ideapreneurs doing this every day of the year, applying the power of new digital technologies such as Cloud and Big Data to save resources and reduce waste. We are acutely aware that we play an important role in building a sustainable society. And we will live up to it with a culture of relentless innovation. As we update you on our progress in this year’s report, I close with an inspiring proverb that keeps us motivated along the way: “Those who say it cannot be done, should not interrupt those doing it.” 7 The strength of our employees’ creativity nurtures ideas that benefit our clients and customers. It ensures that they consider HCL as a partner of choice in making them and their organizations future -ready. Prithvi Shergill Chief Human Resources Officer, HCL Technologies Ltd. At HCL, we firmly believe that in any partnership—be it between the organization and its employees, or the organization and its vendors and clients—it is the relationship that has the potential to multiply the value of benefits beyond the contract. Being a progressive organization, which understands that its pace of growth is influenced by the growth in the capability of its employees and the culture at the workplace, we multiply autonomy and mastery by providing our people the freedom to ideate, decide and act. This has led to an organizational culture of ideapreneurship™ and a grassroots movement of innovation that facilitates gains for the individual as well as the organization. The credit for making this vision of a differentiated organizational culture come to life goes to the 90,000+ ‘ideapreneurs’ who strive to enhance the quality of interactions they have with their partners and customers every day, here at HCL. This belief in empowering our people to enhance the value zone (where they delight customers) has translated into a promise to invest in our employees to enable them to innovate ways of working. Productivity increases immensely when employees feel that they are part of an inclusive environment where they are valued for their diverse background, opinions and ideas. So, we work to align this belief and promise with the desired actions by ensuring our practices reflect the tenets of our ‘Employees First, Customers Second’ (EFCS) business philosophy. Our employees’ passion for work helps them take the Relationship Beyond the Contract™ with our clients and the communities we operate in, by ensuring that the value we add is distinctive. The commitment to take the relationship beyond the contract ensures we understand needs deeply and foster a transparent dialogue to accomplishing desired outcomes. Our external stakeholders see us as an organization that is responsive, agile and flexible, and one that serves as a catalyst for transformation. We are known to seed trust by opening the envelope of transparency, invert the pyramid by having the leadership support ‘the bottom of the pyramid,’ and take ownership and accountability to add value. In a volatile external environment, being committed to taking the Relationship Beyond the Contract™ has helped us form sustainable relationships with our clients and community stakeholders across the globe. The strength of our employees’ creativity nurtures ideas that benefit our clients and customers. It ensures that they consider HCL as a partner of choice in making them and their organizations future-ready. 8 About HCL Technologies HCL Technologies is a leading global IT services company, working with clients in the areas that impact and redefine the core of their businesses. Since its inception into the global landscape after its IPO in 1999, HCL focuses on ‘transformational outsourcing’, underlined by innovation and value creation. The company offers an integrated portfolio of services including software-led IT solutions, remote infrastructure management, engineering and R&D services and BPO. HCL leverages its extensive global offshore infrastructure and network of offices in 31 countries to provide holistic, multi-service delivery in key industry verticals including Financial Services, Manufacturing, Consumer Services, Public Services and Healthcare. HCL takes pride in its philosophy of ‘Employees First, Customers Second’ which empowers our 99,000+ transformers to create a real value for the customers. HCL Technologies, along with its subsidiaries, has reported consolidated revenues of USD 5.3 billion, as on year ended June 30 2014. Corporate Identity number (CIN) of the company is L74140DL1991PLC046369. For more information, please visit www.hcltech.com. Corporate Headquarters: HCL Technologies, A-9, Sec.3, Noida, U.P. India. For details regarding Sustainability, please write to Sustainability@hcl.com 9 Our Global Operations 10 From the Sustainability Desk As I look back on the achievements during the past three years, I realize that while we have progressed in certain areas, there are a few others in which we need to invest more to make a visible difference. Our sustainability priorities are based on the materiality matrix which we drafted with inputs from various stakeholders three years ago and continue to be shaped with their support. We also continue to cluster all our actions under the four R’s—Responsible business, Redefine work place, Renew eco system and Repay society. Areas where we have been able to make a visible difference other than our economic performance include promoting governance and transparency in all actions, Green IT, innovation, employee wellbeing, diversity and inclusion, employee career development, reducing carbon foot print including absolute emissions, and the community outreach programs. Areas where we believe we need additional focus include investing in renewable energy, environment certifications, supply chain responsibility and advocacy on certain areas like energy and sustainable development with the government authorities in India. We have already chalked out initiatives to make visible progress in these areas during FY 15. In continuation with previous years, we believe it is in our capability today to envision, educate and enable, based on the collective wisdom of our employees—Envision a future, where we pass on what has been handed over to us safely, to the next generation, Educate our stakeholders on benefits of sustainable growth and development, and Enable everyday processes to ensure the same. This year’s Sustainability Roadmap and its related activities are aligned with the Business Responsibility Reporting (BRR) requirements which have been mandated by the Indian Government and Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) this financial year. We have not used the GRI framework as we did in the past because of the following reasons (1) We have been preparing extensive financial reports that include all the required economic data as per GRI; (2) We wanted to focus more on peopleand environment-related programs that drive our sustainability agenda; (3) We believe this step will help us to come up with an integrated reporting framework for the future where the sustainability report will become an integral part of the annual financial report. While using the NVG, we have also ensured that all the key GRI parameters that drive our materiality matrix, especially in the areas of environment and human rights, have been considered for disclosures. The sustainability progress is regularly reviewed by Ms Robin Abrams. Her DIN no. is 00030840. The sponsor and custodian for all sustainability actions is Mr. Prithvi Shergill, our Chief Human Resources Officer. The Sustainability Council has expanded to include the senior most members from key functional departments. The program office continues to oversee day-to-day activities. Our stakeholder engagements have helped us to rethink our priorities which are mentioned under “Sustainability 2020” section. During FY 2013, we won some prestigious awards for our sustainability efforts: • Anant Gupta, President & CEO, HCL Technologies received the ‘2014 Women’s Empowerment Principles (WEPs) Leadership Award – 7 Principles’ for developing and implementing a comprehensive internal and external strategy based on the WEPs’ seven principles for advancing and empowering women in the workplace, marketplace and community. • HCL has been conferred the ‘Best Governed Company Award’ by the Asian Centre for Corporate Governance & Sustainability. • Silver Award (Indian Digital Media awards 2014) in the Best Digital Innovation Category. • CNBC IT Excellence Award 2013 –– The HCL Private Cloud awarded IT Excellence Award for Best Project Implementation in association with CNBC. We believe that our ‘Sustainability Actions’ will only continue to get stronger in future; as these actions are built upon a solid foundation of integrity and good governance laid over many years. If you have any suggestions for our report or actions, please write to Sustainability@hcl.com Thank you, Ms. Srimathi Shivashankar Associate Vice President HR, Diversity & Sustainability, HCL Technologies 11 Scope of our Report This is the fourth Sustainability Report for HCL Technologies (HCLT) for FY 2014 (July 1, 2013 June 30, 2014). We have assessed our current state on business responsibility based on the suggested format of SEBI (Clause 55 of Listing Agreement, Annexure 1 of SEBI circular CIR/CFD/DIL/8/2012). Emission-related calculations are based on the GHG protocol: A corporate accounting and reporting standard, which is further explained in the ‘Renew Ecosystem’ section of this report. This report covers the performance of all the business units directly under HCL Technologies (HCL); and the reporting principles and methodologies are in accordance with the Business Responsibility Report (BRR) that is mandated by the Securities Exchange Board of India (SEBI). The relevant indicators and technical protocols have been followed for reporting on the various factors. We have sought external assurance for our Sustainability Report. This report reflects the material issues, which have significant economic, environmental and social impact that can substantially influence the assessments or decisions of our stakeholders. The Economic Performance section is based on our Annual Report. S.R. Baltiboi & Co are the independent external auditors of our Annual Report who have audited the attached consolidated balance sheet of HCL Technologies Limited, its subsidiaries and joint ventures together as a ‘Group’. The Annual Report is available at the following link: www.hcltech.com The sustainability priorities have been drafted based on our engagements with stakeholders and the corresponding framework is available in the ‘Annexure’ section of the report. The material issues, impacts and our sustainability responses are discussed in detail under the 4Rs—Responsible Business, Redefine Workplace, Renew Ecosystem and Repay Society. The scope for the environment section and specific details of locations and sites covered are available in the table of contents of the report. The workplace-related details cover our Global Operations; the community-outreach programs under the ‘Repay Society’ section include all our activities in India and significant Global Development Centres (GDC). There are no changes from the previous report in the scope, boundary or measurement methods. However, details of restatements of information provided in last year’s report and the corresponding reasons are available in sections wherever changes have been made. We support the women empowerment principles of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) and also advocate and implement the principles of UNGC in our actions. 12 Our Stakeholder Engagement and Sustainability Priorities When we embarked on the Sustainability Reporting journey in FY 2011, we identified key materiality issues and actions that need to be considered for Enterprise-wide Risk Management. In the last two years, we have been able to mitigate these risks in various functional departments of HCL and specific actions have been carried out by the respective departments. Therefore at the beginning of FY 2013, the Sustainability Council decided not to continue reporting these risks independently; but the progress of the desired actions would rather be reviewed with the function heads. This decision helped us to advance our engagement with key internal and external stakeholders, and re-prioritize some of the materiality issues and sustainability actions which were already being carried out. Details of the stakeholder engagement and outcomes are provided below: Sections in which Stakeholder Key Sustainability Priority priorities are addressed Employees Wellbeing, career development, grievance channels, Redefine Workplace, room to no job related activities based on other Repay Society interests they are passionate about Customers Innovative IT Solutions, Green IT Responsible Business Vendors and Preference to those who comply with HCL’s vision Responsible Business, Suppliers for sustainability, safe work environment for those Redefine Workplace working as contractual personnel in HCL Immediate Community development, focus on youth and Repay Society communities women for creating sustainable livelihoods; health in which we and hygiene assistance operate Investors & Transparency and maintenance of high degree of Responsible Business Shareholders disclosure levels and focus on good Corporate Governance. NGOs, and Community development, capacity development, Renew Ecosystem, Advocacy advocacy on human rights issues such as diversity, Repay Society Groups safety, advocacy on environment and climate change ICT Forums Renewable energy, inclusive growth (identifying cities Renew Ecosystem, to operate, staffing approach) Responsible Operations, Redefine Workplace Government Women empowerment, ICT policies Redefine Workplace 13 Materiality Matrix The stakeholder engagement during FY 2014 helped us shape our materiality matrix against our four pillars of Sustainability – Responsible Business, Redefine Workplace, Renew Ecosystem and Repay Society. The priorities are based on what the stakeholders and HCL value collectively on a mutual sustainable journey. The issues that are mentioned towards the core of this matrix are of high significance to HCL and also to stakeholders. The significance of material issues are the measure of two parameters: (1) Importance to Stakeholders (2) Importance to HCL’s business Sustainability 10 by 2020 – Our Goals and Milestones ss ine RE s Benchmarking Bu Sustainability FE F e Strategy Global Re mobility INE sp on CE Ethical Social si LA Media Policy Supply Chain bl KP Diversity Diversity and OR Siting Policy Economic Inclusion Industry Academia W Memberships in connect Performance forums Employee career progression and development Governance Employee Supply Chain Green IT Wellbeing Management Employee Innovation Experience Green Buildings Education and Skills Rehabilitation and Advocacy development for Youth Energy bridge schools for management youth and women Responsible Mentor youth through Supply Chain HCL employees Safe Waste Water Arts and Disposal Neutrality Culture Capacity building Livelihood for Biodiversity for NGOs marginalized Green women Procurement RREN Care for orphans, Paper EW terminally ill and Consumption TY old aged people Environment EC IE Certification OS C M TE Advocacy-Child SO YS rights REPA Y 14 Sustainability 10 by 2020 – Our Goals and Milestones Sustainability 10 Long Term Goal Goals 2014 Achieved 2014 Goals 2015 Responsible Business Advocacy Participate and Participate and Active participation Continue active contribute ideas contribute in key in taskforces set participation. to shape public sustainability up for women policies that are forums. empowerment, science-based CSR, inclusive and impact social growth and ICT and environmental policies. Forums issues positively. include UN, WEF, NASSCOM, and CII. Green Data Centres Reduce absolute Reduce energy Reduced Reduce absolute energy consumption consumption by absolute energy energy consumption of our data centres 15% over the consumption by: by 5% over the by 40% over the previous year. 5% over FY-2013. previous year. base year 2011. In one of our BigSize Data Centres, the reduction in FY2014 is reaching 34% over the base year 2011. Supply Chain Partnering with our Supply chain COBEC and related Sustainability Responsibility supply chain on trainings on good policies were seminars for good governance governance and shared with all vendors. and achievement secure channels. vendors. of mutual goals 2000+ of sustainability housekeeping, cab performance. drivers and security staff trained on Whistle blower and secure channels. Redefine Workplace Promote Inclusive Integrate diversity Improvement by 1% Marginal Improvement by 1% Growth Employee into our service life of gender diversity improvement on of Gender Diversity and Supply Chain cycle and inclusion in the workplace. gender ratios. in the workplace in employee life Strengthen women Formal mentoring including women cycle programs. mentorship program launched suppliers’ base. programs. for women in HCL. Nurture Employee Employee Measure Measurement Focused health and Wellbeing and benefits to include effectiveness of for professional work-life programs Safety sustainable lifestyle life counselling life counselling for employees and workplace services offered for deployed and and their families. safety programs. employees. reported. Health camps and 24/7 support for Implement Women in supply emergencies for wellbeing programs chain provided employees. for women in supply training on health, chain. safety and how to report on any harassment at the workplace 15 Sustainability 10 Long Term Goal Goals 2014 Achieved 2014 Goals 2015 Renew Eco System Reduce Carbon Reduce per capita Reduce per capita Reduced per capita Reduce per capita Footprint in carbon footprint by carbon footprint consumption by consumption by 2% operations 20% over the base by 3% over the 16.77% over the over the previous year 2011. previous year. previous year. year. Maintain Per capita t CO2/ responsible Emp.operations data for FY 12-13 – 3.10 all global offices that are not company FY 13-14 – 2.58 owned. Invest in Renewable 20% of power Increase in The procurement of To explore the Energy purchased will be renewable energy renewable energy use of renewable substituted with procurement over has been extended energy in other renewable energy. and above this year. to the Bangalore regions including region in addition to the northern region the already existing (NCR). Chennai region. Improve Water Reduce 5% reduction in Water consumption 2% reduction in Efficiency consumption of per capita water reduced by 2.62% per capita water water by 30% consumption over in per capita consumption over over the base the previous year. consumption over the previous year. year 2011 in our the previous year. owned facilities for sustenance. Meet world class 50% of all our Include and Institutionalized 24 more operational Green Standards new buildings will institutionalize Green Design in 2 of centres to be for our buildings comply with LEED Green Design in all our new operational certified for ISO standards. the new operational centres. 20 HCL 14001 and OHSAS centres. office buildings are 18001 management OHSAS 18001 and system standards. ISO 14001 certified. Repay Society Dignified life Enable sustainable Identify and launch 95 HCL Gurukuls Sustain the for 100,000+ livelihoods for programs for (Youth Centres) programs initiated. beneficiaries 10,000 less rehabilitation and launched till date. Focus on adding privileged youth and training of youth HCL Yuvakendras another 5000 direct women. and women. to support 12,650 beneficiaries this students.800 year. youths facilitated with jobs and 650 women supported with sustainable livelihoods. Power of One – Employees Enrol 10,000 HCL Enrolled 20,000 Enrol 12,000 new Enable and help participate in employees as HCL volunteers. volunteers. employees connect community volunteers. with the community giving, advocacy and capacity building including mentorship for NGOs and students. 16 Responsible Business Ideas that power the future 17 Successful relationships are built on trust. And trust can be formed only when there is responsibility and accountability. HCL believes that the key to a successful business is in running a responsible business. Whether it’s in governance, policies, code of business conduct or stakeholder engagement, we believe in consistently and responsibly balancing our top priorities – which are Profit, People and the Planet. In HCL, our Governance Framework is based on the principles of integrity, fairness, equity, transparency, accountability and commitment to values. Demonstration of sound Corporate Governance practices help us to accelerate economic growth and related value creation for all our stakeholders. This is how we engage in a ‘Responsible Business’ – While we focus on economic growth and creating value to our stakeholders, we also: Uphold integrity and Invest in innovation and transparency in all our activities Ideapreneurs who add value by adhering to our Code of to our innovation and client Conduct principles sustainability efforts Improvise expertise through Deliver ICT solutions in a Knowledge Management sustainable manner – Green Data Centres, Inclusive Procurement and Supply Chain Management Our day-to-day operations and decisions are guided by a set of rules under the Code of Business Ethics principles and policies (COBEC). During FY 2014, we reinforced our responsibility towards balanced governance with the dissemination of the Code of Business Ethics and Conduct (COBEC); Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption (ABAC) Policy; and Business Gifts and Entertainment Policy (BGEP). These policies are available at: http://www.hcltech.com/about-us/corporate-governance/governance-policies. This year, we have also institutionalized an external ombudsman for looking into all complaints on the related subject. Any stakeholder can report any violation of ethics at whistleblower.hcl@tari.co.in. We continue to help our employees understand and manage situations that may pose ethical dilemmas sharing the organization’s perspectives through the ethicsdialog@hcl.com channel. It is a mandate for every HCLite to complete their training on the Code of Conduct and related policies this year. Our CEO is the Chief Custodian of the Corporate Governance mandate and his perspectives on Sustainable Governance are available at http://www.hcltech.com. We ensure that our governance polices are in line with the ever changing Global Corporate Governance scenario. We continue to conduct various trainings and awareness campaigns to ensure that the changes are imbibed in to the day-to-day activities of our employees. The corresponding changes are reflected in the vendor and supplier contracts in form of addendums. We received six complaints from the supply chain community that were addressed satisfactorily. We were not subjected to any legal actions for anti-competitive behaviour, anti-trust, monopoly practices or non-compliance with laws and regulations in the FY 2014. The internal risks and audits team provides key management leaders with risk insights and the various departments proactively implement actions to comply with COBEC or local regulations. We are apolitical, advocating government policies on Sustainability, and had not contributed financially or in kind to political parties, politicians or related institutions during FY 2014. At HCL, we encourage a culture of open thinking coupled with integrity and transparency in our activities. 18 Ideapreneurs led business solutions The secret behind successful relationships lies in looking into oneself and letting change begin from within. At HCL, employees are encouraged to ask themselves three questions before they begin work: Why am I doing it? What results will I achieve? and Will I be successful? They are empowered to implement actions emerging out of these questions. We believe these actions have helped us in creating value to our customers and other key stakeholders to take relationships beyond contracts. We call our value creators, as Ideapreneurs. Ideapreneurs Ideapreneurs are enabled through multiple forums such as Value Portal, MAD JAM and LeadGen as well as given opportunities to collaborate with customers to lead Innovation. As an ICT company, we are cognizant of our stakeholders’ expectations in managing the resources – be it environment or people in the most sustainable and responsible manner. Our Responsible Services framework approach encourages every Ideapreneur, who is driven by HCL’s unique, culture of grass-roots, business-driven, and customerfocused innovation. This culture of ideapreneurship in HCL is creating a vibrant entrepreneurial atmosphere where employees are taking the lead in finding solutions and ideas and then leading them to fruition. Ideapreneur led Value Creation: Simple idea for resolving traffic violations The customer was a local police force in the Europe region and this solution enhances their promise to the public to make it safer for everyone through professional and progressive policing. They have a proactive, community-driven approach, where the police and the local community work together to identify and solve problems. HCL’s team of developers rolled out the “HCL Mobility Solution” across the user base of police officers for the customer. The HCL Mobility Solution enabled police officers to work more efficiently from remote locations by communicating securely with the police back-end systems via a Blackberry mobile device. Today, the customer is benefited with the following: • Approximately daily savings of USD 600 equating to USD 219K in a year • Approximately 12 minute saving per day per officer in identifying the driver • Approximately 10% reduced workload on back-end staff • Availability of driver photographs that simplify identification • Prevention of identity theft • Significant reduction in the number of driving licenses seized by the police Ideapreneur led Value Creation: Optimized website speed & performance The customer was Europe’s leading specialist electrical retailer and services company, who was struggling to keep pace with the digitally connected consumer demands on their service portal. One of the key challenges faced by the retailer was poor website performance during peak hours as the third-party content management system was inept in handling the large volume of service requests. This was negatively impacting customer experience and consequently, the retailer’s brand image. 19 HCL’s Solutions Architects revealed the flip side to this approach. The team advised the retailer to explore caching between the website and the content management system integration layer. This helped the website application server fetch data directly from the cache, reducing load on the CMS application server/ database, and improve overall website performance and responsiveness. The solution proved successful for the customer’s retail peak and potentially helped in generating revenue as part of their marketing campaign. The ideapreneur team and idea helped the retailer improve website response times and achieve the following benefits: • Reduce the ‘time-out’ errors • Significant reduction in database CPU utilization issues, from over 90% to less than 5% Ideapreneur led Value Creation: Reduction in load outages The client is a Fortune 500 global giant which comprises of complimentary business units that design, manufacture, distribute and automobile engines and related technologies. HCL Technologies was providing operational and technical network support to the global power leader. Our Tech Lead at the client side was concerned about old technology components and devices that were restricting network performance and provided a solution for the same. He, along with his team, reviewed and analyzed the customer’s existing network components and suggested replacing existing circuits with the AVPN (Advanced Virtual Private Network) services over fiber. This migration was needed to reduce the recurring cost and the inflow of tickets, decrease the repetitive work and improve the productivity and efficiency of the team. The impact of the idea was as follows: • Optimized the customer’s network • Reduced load outages by up to 40-45% • The AVPN services over fiber network resulted in saving approximately $ 1234927.6 for the customer Ideapreneur-led Green Solutions for the Customers Our Infrastructure Management business offers a number of Sustainability services, especially in the area of Remote Information Management to enable customers to meet their Green, Governance and Growth requirements. Details of our offerings are available at www.hcltech.com. We leverage our Data Centre Virtualization Services and Green Data Centres to help customers achieve one or more of the following: (1) Reduction in data centre management cost (2) Reduction in overall data centres hardware cost (3) Reduction in data centres server power and cooling consumption (4) Reduction in data centres space provisioning (5) Elimination of business loss associated with infrastructure unplanned downtime (6) Reduction of new capacity provisioning time. Virtualization case study Case 1: World’s leading drug manufacturer Our Sustainability Solution: We collaborated with the customer to execute a data center consolidation and migration of applications and workloads. By deploying Cloud technologies and Infrastructure as a Service (IaaS), HCL was able to reduce congestion, create a better IT setup and reduce complexity in operations. We also enabled location-based service ensuring precise ‘proximity to distributors’ ordering. Shipment 20 tracking on the go was enabled by the uniquely featured Fleet Management System. HCL also enabled efficient demand forecasting powered by barcode scanning reporting real time hospital consumption. Benefits Achieved: With our solution, we helped the customer to reduce overheads as the server hardware requirements reduced by approximately 70%. This further helped in bringing down the power consumption by approximately 60%. Servers reduced from 5000 to 3500, storage reduced from 3.5PB to 2.5 PB, backup success rate increased from 84% to 95%, unsupported OS reduced from 15% to 2%, virtualization increased from 37% to 70%, and 1800 applications decommissioned. Customer led innovation and ICT solutions Our Customer Advisory Council (CAC) platform has been honoured with the Forrester Groundswell Award in the ‘Business-to-Business Embracing’ category. This council is a global collaborative platform where our major C-Level Customers and Thought Leaders convene bi-annually to provide feedback and recommendations on current and key strategic issues, and share best practices and insights into future trends, potential future solutions and implementation approaches identified by us. We, at HCL, believe that it is extremely important to have a deep understanding of every business driver of our customers and the markets they operate in and from. The Customer Advisory Council is a reflection of our commitment toward our customers. This not only creates great dialogues and intimacy with our customers but also helps us steer our business strategy effectively. We have adopted a 360-degree approach in embedding value in all facets of the HCL-Customer relationship. With the support of an external agency, we conducted an annual survey on customer satisfaction (CSAT). In FY 2014, our participation rate on CSAT was 71.03% with over 2000+ customer touch points. We sustained the high CSAT scores of last year. 80% of our top accounts experienced customer delight. Key expectations of our customers are being analyzed for implementation during FY 2015. We have also been ranked in the Leadership Zone as a leading Engineering Services Provider by a renowned globalization advisory firm in their study titled ‘Global R&D Service Providers Rating (GSPR) 2012’. We have always been a disruptive force in technology adoption and have many ‘firsts’ to our credit for creating industry-leading propositions. We were also the first to talk about Application and Infrastructure integration, the first to think and create utility models like Business Ready Infrastructure (BRI), MtaaS™ (a Business Service Management Centric Service Delivery platform), and the first to partner with ISVs and technology companies to create cloud and mobility based services, delivery platforms and service operating models. Our business transformational solutions are available in our publication ‘CIO Straight Talk’, which is available online for all stakeholders at: http://www.hcltech.com/i-have-an-idea/straighttalk. Our Innovation Channels for Ideapreneurs The vibrant entrepreneurial culture in HCL is giving rise to institutional and grass-root programs that help in seeding ideas, mentoring creativity and harvesting innovation. The Value Portal encourages co-creation of value and has generated over 30,000 ideas on live client projects. MAD JAM is a centralized platform for celebrating the business-centric implemented ideas and innovation of employees from across the organization. It provides employees with a platform to share their best ideas for innovation and transformation. A jury of senior delivery managers shortlist the best ideas, which are turned into videos and hosted on HCL intranet and on Youtube, where employees vote for their favourite entries. 21 Improvising expertise through Knowledge Management Knowledge Management (KM) in HCL: The New Era of Collaboration and Sharing Connectedness and governance are paramount in the charter of KM in HCL as it enables operational and competitive performance, increased employee engagement, productivity, people independence and innovation. KM initiatives at HCL have been designed around enterprise knowledge discovery through organized search, leveraging experiential knowledge through real-time experts’ discovery, mining and reusing good practices, active knowledge sharing and collaboration. Good Practices Conference The Good Practices Conference (GPC) is a great knowledge sharing platform, helping discover top-notch practitioners for their ideas and innovations. • GPC-7 conducted at an Engagement, Regional and Enterprise levels • Special focus on self-driven Engagement Level GPC for top PG accounts • Dedicated Leadership track for PG ISD/MSD engagement leaders • End-to-end automated solutions for the submission & evaluation phases Good Practices Conference 7th edition • 87% increase in author participation vis-à-vis GPC-6 to 738 Key Differentiators • 81% increase in artifact submissions since GPC-6 to 531 • 44% rise in good practices submitted in the e-handbook to 152 arKMedes is HCL’s systematic, integrated knowledge collaboration platform created to support knowledge intensive business processes. The key knowledge actions that are incubated in existing processes are (1) Creation of new knowledge (2) Application of existing knowledge (3) Discovery of new and existing knowledge and expertise. 22 Communities of Practice (CoP) is a platform where groups of employees who share an expertise come together for collaborative learning and sharing. Currently, there are 140 communities catering to different technologies, enabling functions, domains, tools, processes and methodologies with a 19745 strong subscription base. Expert webinars from practitioners are periodically aired on various knowledge areas taking the total number of available informative video sessions on the portal to 484. With the listenership of video podcasts being currently 19713, it makes it one of the most user friendly ways to listen and learn in HCL. 462 new blogs comprising a varied mix of topics like technology, innovation, delivery and leadership have emerged in the last year. Knowledge Management Maturity Index (KMMi) KMMi is the latest knowledge-powered framework implemented within accounts to measure existing KM processes and benchmarking it to an organizational standard. Incorporating measurable KM practices helps save effort and builds a culture of reuse. Additionally, it helps in project introspection and increases customer satisfaction ratings while having a positive impact on the project profitability (direct/indirect). Building Productive Teams: The Onboarding Studio (TOS) The Onboarding Studio (TOS) helps employees jumpstart their new or assigned roles through a formal process leveraging contextual information in one place. With onboarding sites rolled out to 146 new accounts (a remarkable 563% increase since last year), leading to a 20% increase in effort savings and 934 reusable knowledge artifacts clubbed with a role based task master list of 85, TOS continues to be a consistent and uniform initiative which helps build a competent, informed, and competitive workforce that is capable of utilizing all available resources necessary to be effective and productive. Edna: Experts Discovery, Nurture and Actualize Program To help discover knowledge hotspots within the organization, the KM team introduced the experts’ discovery program called Edna (Experts – Discover, Nurture, and Actualize). It is a simple IM based Q&A system, available 24X7, that helps HCLites connect to relevant experts real-time across all locations. This platform has enabled employees around the globe to come together, discuss and interact with experts thereby enabling direct collaboration. Edna is powered with in-built analytics with an inherent feedback system of rating experts. It also generates a leaderboard which helps recognize top answering experts in Edna. There is a system of auto archival of conversations which is then, used as a ready knowledge database. Edna Expert Clinics are dedicated expert sessions on select topics to facilitate knowledge sharing on specific subject areas. These powerful sessions harness Edna’s capability of bringing specific experts together to answer specific queries across the organization. Users have access to more than one expert who is able to answer queries based on the dedicated session. There have been 24 expert clinics conducted 23 in FY 2013-14, spanning delivery-relevant technology and process related topics such as Test Automation, PM Smart, HTML, C#, Oracle e-Business, Career Connect and Business Analysis. Responsible Marketing HCL adheres to a responsible marketing model where digital is at the forefront of our marketing efforts. Digital media’s enhanced reach and effective content consumption, makes it an optimum platform to increase awareness about HCL Technologies’ socially responsible initiatives. The financial year of 2014 was replete with social awareness campaigns on the digital front. We have a dedicated section in our newly revamped website highlighting HCLT’s Socially Responsible Business Model. Also the HCL Foundation’s website domain was changed from .com to .org to reflect the non-profit objective of the organization. HCL Technologies has a very active presence on digital platforms (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, Google+, websites) with over a million users. Organic digital media campaigns are regularly featured on these digital platforms for example HCL’s initiative to stop child sexual abuse (“CHUPPI TODO”) was very well received by the our fan base. Also, one of the YouTube videos on CSR initiative received 19k+ views through organic digital campaigns (“Power of One”). Social Media HCL is governed by a Social Media Practice. We have a Social Media Practice (SMP) video which encapsulated a structure and standardized approach to social media participation, both for an individual employee and the business. To conduct our business ethically, our marketing programs adhere to the legal regulations of the countries we operate in. We did not record any substantiated complaints regarding breach of customer privacy, loss of customer data and non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning the usage of our products and services. Some of the key achievements in social media are as follows: • HCL technologies is present on all leading social media platforms Facebook, Twitter, Google+, Youtube LinkedIn, Slideshare, Vimeo. HCL Technologies’ CEO Anant Gupta has become the LinkedIn Influencer. • HCL Technologies is leveraging LinkedIn for Thought Leadership. Two global communities have been created on LinkedIn. –– CIO Straight Talk: The CIO Straight Talk community recognizes customers as practitioners and thought leaders, whose experience based insights have community value. CIO Straight Talk Interactive on LinkedIn can be accessed at: http://partner.linkedin.com/ciostraighttalk –– CTO Straight Talk: HCL has also launched CTO Straight Talk on LinkedIn. This is world’s first CTOs platform that will bring together CTOs and product engineering leaders across the globe. This platform strives to facilitate peer-to-peer exchange of practical ideas amongst CTOs and senior product engineers on wide variety of business and technology topics. The idea driving Straight Talk is that product engineers can learn as much, if not more, from their peers than from “full-time experts” – consultants, academics, analysts, management gurus. • HCL believes in launching first-in-class initiatives – some of them are: –– LinkedIn app: HCL has partnered with LinkedIn to encourage users to go ‘Beyond the Contract allowing them to log in and acknowledge professional relationships that they feel have gone beyond the contract. 24 –– COOLESTINTERVIEWEVER: HCLT’s #CoolestInterviewEver Twitter campaign exemplifies the firm’s strategy to move beyond traditional campus recruiting methods to attract creative problem solvers that can drive faster business value for clients as well as for HCLT. The unconventional contest also demonstrates the firm’s ability to leverage social media to reduce recruiting costs while maximizing brand exposure in the competitive IT hiring market. It was the world’s first ever recruitment on Twitter and has won 4 awards and special mention in Technology business review (TBR). HCL has won prestigious awards in the Social Media World. They are: • Two DMAi 2014 Createffect Awards for Gold in Creativity/ Interactive social media • AIMA Awards Jury Special Mention in Marketing Innovation • KYOORIUS In-book mention for rbtc in the “best branded digital film” • 6 RASBIC Awards for excellence in HR 25 Delivering our Services in a Responsible Way We believe that it is not just the governance, innovation and world class IT solutions that accelerate business growth. It is also about delivering these aspects in a responsible manner. The various aspects of this responsibility include our (1) Green Data Centres and Green IT (2) Information Security and Disaster Management (3) Siting policy for setting up our operations (4) Responsible Sourcing (5) Responsible marketing practices. We, as an organization, are zero tolerant to any Information Security violations. We have made Information Security training mandatory for all our employees. We run information security awareness programs throughout the year through mailers, posters, screensavers, advisories and e-learning programs. Besides, there is also a two weeks annual campaign on information Security to improve the awareness among HCLites. This campaign educates each individual on their responsibility to protect Information as well as reporting mechanism for any violations. The related policies are available in Code of Conduct guidelines. We provide regular trainings on Information Security Policies, Procedures and Practices. This training is conducted during the induction of the employees and thereafter at regular intervals centrally and by respective functions/departments. Information security training is a mandate for all employees and covers aspects like password sharing, data disclosure, business continuity management, IPR infringement etc. Our Indian operations are certified under ISO 27001: 2005 and SSAE 16. We have a defined Risk Management and Business Continuity Management system; a robust Security Incident Management procedure and Security Group. Internal and external audits are conducted on a periodic basis and covers all aspects of physical and environmental security. 92.11 % of employees have completed the compliance. We believe in inclusive growth. Indirect employment opportunities are provided to local skilled and semiskilled labour for support staff such as Security, Facility Maintenance, Transportation and Travel personnel. As an ICT company, we have clear policies and competencies for recruitment and do not employ any child labourers. Our administration team monitors the vendors for child labour compliance and there were no violations this year. Policies pertaining to our siting approach, procurement and supplier/vendor are published in the Appendix section of this report. Please refer to Procurement Policy in Sustainability Report. We have received no stakeholder complaints in the past financial year. During FY 2014, we identified our significant vendors and circulated the Whistleblower policy to them and have shared our commitment on upholding transparency and ethics in all transactions. The Ethics Dialogue forum is also available to vendors to share their concerns and best practices with us. We ensure that preference is given to local vendors for outsourcing jobs pertaining to facilities management, procurement of materials for infrastructure development and other operations. Our local procurement by percentage volume stands at 70% for FY 2014. With the majority of our spend on local vendors, we create employment and economic opportunities in the locations that we operate from. Diverse programs are run to create awareness amongst HCLites and involve them in countering the effects of climate change. We focus on investing in green buildings, rainwater harvesting, new generation lighting and renewable energy. All our systems are energy efficient including IT hardware used, and we have received internationally recognized Environment and Safety certifications from reputed firms. For FY 2014, we have not tracked the total environmental protection expenditures by type as they are embedded in the larger facilities and infrastructure budgets of HCL. We did not pay any fines or face non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations. Green IT – Supporting our IT development and Customers every day In addition to improving HCL’s agility to build solutions for customers, our internal global IT services department continues to invest in technologies and competencies that will help HCL reduce its carbon footprint and pass the efficiencies to customers. This department manages our first Private Cloud service and has helped HCL adopt Exchange 2010 and System Centre Configuration Manager (SCCM), and continues to enhance mobility in the form of multiple tools like Live Meeting, mp-India, Lync and RMS, and has initiated VDI deployment. 26 The department has strengthened their approach during FY 2014 to provide energy efficient solutions for our day-to-day operations, recycle electronic products, manage e-wasted disposal responsibly and focus on server virtualization and consolidation to reduce energy consumption. In addition, a Unified Threat Messaging system was introduced to reduce the need for multiple power consuming boxes for managing threats, leading to increased energy efficiency. Our Green IT Framework ATTITUDE End User IT Enterprise IT Lifecycle & IT as a LowEfficiencies Efficiencies Procurement Carbon Enabler Data Centre Compliance & The Desktop IT Equipment Procurement Governance POLICY Data Centre Power & Teleworking Environment PRACTICE Mobile Devices Business Process Communications Operations Management TECHNOLOGY Distributed & Dept Supply Chain IT Systems Management METRICS Printing & Outsourced IT Industry-Specific Disposal Consumables Systems Efficiencies We have undertaken the following measures in 2014 as a part of our Go Green Environment initiatives: • 11000 + technology refresh (Laptops & Desktops) and upgrades to reduce carbon footprint and lower power consumptions • 13000 assets disposed under e-waste, all disposal done via Government-approved / certified e-waste vendors • 81 printers consolidation via managed printers, to help in reducing paper/printout wastage Data Centre Improvement The DCIP project located at HCL site at A9 office Noida has shown savings in terms of space, power and cooling. Through our GIT cloud service, we have reduced the power consumption and bought down cooling requirements by 58% space requirement as requested by the business. GIT Cloud program has also reduced space requirement of data center racks thus making room for 5 more racks. These initiatives were undertaken in 2012 and have yielded a savings of approximately INR 60,000,00 in FY 2014. Installed Capacity of Cooling 370 KW Apparent Load 184 KW Reserve Power Capacity 186 KW 50% of Reserved capacity 98 KW INR 493920 Monthly Saving (Reserved capacity * 24Hr * 30 Days * INR 7 per Unit) Annual Saving INR 5927040 Scope : HCL Technologies Global 27 During FY 2015, the IT Services department will enhance the existing green offerings—Cloud, VDI, Mobile Device management, Lync etc. —so as to create a more user empowering environment and improve both cost and carbon footprint goals. We have implemented initiatives to drive towards a paperless organization. Two of our important initiatives are as follows: • For Third party Payment Automation: We have eliminated printing of Purchase Order (PO) and sending the same to the vendor through courier service by going green (automatic transmission of the PDF PO via email). In addition, we have eliminated the manual vendor invoice processing and have made it a system generated invoice, further reducing manual paper invoices. We have also achieved huge savings in terms of physical storage space by replacing the same with virtual space. • Paperless Cash Voucher Claim System (CVCS) and ECS processing: We have eliminated all paper invoices required for reimbursement and we now work with soft copies and scanned copy of invoices. Harnessing Collaboration Technologies A first-of-its-kind relay of Live HD AV transmission of the Good Practices Conference (GPC) was broadcasted via Lync at no additional cost. This unique solution served as a unified collaboration tool that functioned across several touch points—Conference, Technology, Tools and Infrastructure—and enabled GPC to make this ‘virtual town hall’ a big success. Telepresence also creates an exclusive meeting space for engagements and interaction connecting peers and clients, enabling virtual face-to-face interactions without the hassles of travel. This technology was exclusively used by the Diversity & Sustainability team for launching Ascend—The Women Leadership Program. Telepresence (state-of-the-art facilities available at all main HCL offices) is steadily making waves as the preferred choice of collaboration in HCL as it is easy to use, saves costs and travel while also helping the company reduce its carbon footprint. Impact of our Green IT efforts Electricity Savings per FY 12-13 ($) FY 13-14 ($) month (KW) GIT CLOUD 1519 GREEN DATA CENTRE – DCIP 169 VIRTUAL DESKTOP INFRASTRUCTURE (VDI) 1125 6.25 MN 7.55 MN LYNC 309 ($) ($) GREEN DC UPGRADE 573 BLADE SERVER INFRA 563 TOTAL 4257 KW Scope : HCL Technologies Global 28 All efforts to provide sustainable IT support for day-to-day operations by the IT Services department helped us to receive the following recognition during FY 2014: Microsoft Collaboration Award • HCL’s adoption of LYNC 2013, awarded the best collaboration tool adoption in HCL, and a case study was also published on the Microsoft website SAMs Europe Award 2013 • The HCL SAM (Software Asset Management) Team was awarded 2nd Prize at an event in Berlin, Germany EMC IDC Award 2013 • RSA Envision implementation in HCL won the EMC-IDC award, for Log Correlation and Next Generation Threat Management 29 Redefine Workplace Igniting minds 30 Redefine Workplace While HCL encourages its employees to uphold Relationship beyond the Contract™, it firmly believes that the spirit of RBTC begins at the workplace—where employees come first. Here at HCL, employees are given the room to think freely, create innovative solutions, and participate and contribute to HCL’s revenues. HCL is identified by many stakeholders including academia as a company which has introduced management practices to create a workplace that is truly inclusive, promoting a diversity of culture, people and thought. Our Employees First approach is all about inverting the traditional organization pyramid, where the management is at the bottom of the pyramid and all actions of the company are focused on enabling employees who deliver value to the customers. HCLites who are also our ideapreneurs are empowered to take decisions on ideas that can increase stakeholder value and transform HCL’s way of working while servicing customers. Various platforms including the CEO Connect are available for HCLites to share ideas, ask questions and debate on key decisions including policies. We also ensure that there is a consistent focus on employee wellbeing and experiences. The organization drives several initiatives, platforms and programs that help employees share, interact and exchange ideas and experiences. A unique practice at HCL is our “BlogHer” forum. While many companies invest in diversity training, we have this blogging forum on our internal social platform “Meme” where many aspects on gender neutral policies are discussed. The open space discussions are non-hierarchical, constructive and help both HCL and employees to demystify work place myths and stereotypes on gender, culture, and other issues. IGNITE Inside every HCLT employee, there burns a passion to continually grow and succeed. We have kindled this inner fire in our employees to facilitate their growth by: 1. Empowering them with programs and platforms that drive passion everyday 2. Engaging with them to create new benefits, connects and experiences everyday 3. Enriching their lives to promote well being and happiness 4. Recognizing them for their contribution to organization growth Employees First – Breaking Traditional Wisdom on Engaging & Managing Talent Realizing that customers buy value from employees who are delivering services to them, we have created an uncontested market space by focusing on internal transformation rather than external innovation, through Employees First. • We believe that maximum value is created at the employee-customer interface. Therefore, we empower our employees to generate delight for our customers, every step of the way. • It is about the individual taking charge—proactively creating space for growth, expansion and enrichment. We urge our people to create a change in the organization, bring about a revolution and create an ecosystem that exudes brilliance and superiority in everything they do. • Employees First is our means of getting into the very core of the individual and decoding their individuality and diversity, unleashing their potential and equipping them with the necessary tools to enhance the value zone the employee-customer interface, allowing us maximize the “wow” delivered to our customers. 31 At HCL, our aim is to create a passionate, engaged and empowered workforce and we have several initiatives towards achieving this goal. Here are some of the initiatives we have to enrich the employee experience at HCL. Employee Passion in HCL is kept alive through the following platforms • Hobby Clubs at HCL are a platform for HCLites to share and collaborate with other like-minded HCLites, share their expertise, seek views, participate in various online/offline contests and win exciting goodies! Over 30,000 HCLites are a part of these online clubs ranging from a club for foodies to a club for bikers, photographers, polyglots and toastmasters. We also organize hobby classes at HCL to give an opportunity to employees to pursue their interests and passion within the premises of the office. • Arclights is the talent fest @ HCL which allows employees to showcase their talent. The performances include dancing, singing, fashion show, to painting, sketching and theatre. • HCL Inquizitive Minds: HCL has a number of quiz lovers and we wanted to give them a platform where they could pursue this interest and test their grey cells. 256 teams registered online in this battle of wits pan India during the year 2013 -14. • Perspectives: The first ever regional debate contest at HCL was organized for March 2014. We received over 200 nominations across four Indian cities. 32 Employee Benefits AHA (Assisting HCLites Anytime) is a first-of-its-kind initiative that features a range of offerings and services. Employees themselves get to choose the programs/benefits that they wish to be implemented in their regions/ facilities.16000 participated in AHA during the year 2014 and gave their suggestions on programs to be implemented. Employee Connect Sunshine Summer Camp: Since we believe in taking our ‘relationships beyond the contract’, we launched the Sunshine Summer Camp for the extended HCL family – the children of our employees based in India. The camp is organized annually during the summer months and is open for children aged 4-11 years and their parents across all regions in India. In 2013, Sunshine completed its third year. This year, the 5-day camp saw participation from over 900 children and over 600 parents. The activities help the kids develop life-long skills such as confidence, teamwork, leadership, compassion, and build friendships as well. Such family-connect programs have been welcomed by most of the parents. Employee Resource Groups Empowerment at HCL is not just limited to one’s scope of work but goes above and beyond that. We provide numerous avenues for self-empowerment to our employees as a first step towards creating an engaged workforce. And that is why we have various employee resource groups which are led and driven by employees themselves. These resource groups use a multi-dimensional approach and act as platforms for employees to anchor organizational change and development. Chargers: Chargers, as the name suggests, aim to engage HCLites and provide them with access to opportunities to live their passion. The intent of this group is to enable individuals to pursue their interests in sports, health and wellness, photography, dance and music, knowledge and problem solving, and specific hobbies with like-minded HCLites. Chargers support these interest groups by creating virtual networks as well as physical platforms for nurturing talent and connecting HCLites across locations within our organization. The members of this group are democratically elected by other HCLites. The election for the new team of Chargers was held in April 2014. Elections booths were set up in 40 locations across India. Close to 13000 votes were cast on a single day by HCLites across the country to elect their Chargers representatives. Over 1400 nominations were received of which 1257 representatives have been elected to lead the way for the current term. All employees are members of this association but the charter runs with select representatives who form 1% of the total workforce. Employees First Council (EFC): The Employees First Council is anchored by members who represent the voice of HCL and contribute in shaping change and anchoring transformation of our organizational capabilities. This council works closely with the HR teams in their locations to co-create people practices that are distinctive and aligned to the Employees First strategic model. The EFC focuses on key transformational initiatives around the workplace culture, people policies and operational aspects in the region. Community Champions: This employee network is the largest and continues to grow every day. These are a group of community service volunteers, who lead the HCLT Foundation activities. Approximately 10000+ new volunteers joined this network this year. More details of their work are available under Repay Society section of this report. Women Connect: Women Connect group aims to connect and advance women through development programs, advocate gender neutral work environment by suggesting appropriate policies and position HCL as an employer of choice by women across the globe. There are over 130 Women Connect office members across the globe who lead “Café coffee” sessions and “Rebalance” events, covering over 1200 employees, to promote a gender sensitive and inclusive work place. This group also coaches and counsels aspiring young women professionals, and shares experiences on work life priorities. There were 6 “Feminispiration” events organized by Women Connect this year, in which women achievers were invited to speak. 33 ADEC (African Diaspora Employee Council): A network to create a positive environment for the African-American employees to facilitate business excellence, career growth, recruitment, and community involvement. This year they organized awareness and networking programs during the Black History month. Ability Connect: A group of HCLites have come together to help HCL adopt best practices for recruiting, and enabling persons with disabilities. LEAD (Latino Employee Alliance for Diversity): A network that facilitates the professional development of the Latino/Hispanic employees to ensure community and educational outreach, networking, recruitment, and advancement of the HCL business objectives. As on June 30th 2014, the total number of employees was 99474 and the total number of women employees stands at 23874. The total numbers include approximately 150 disabled employees. Workforce demographics table Workforce by region FY 2014 FY 2013 FY 2012 FY 2011 Total Workforce India 73528 69357 69,118 63,629 USA & LATAM 9181 8136 7397 5,739 Europe 4598 4351 4413 4,412 APAC & RoW 4384 3661 3391 3266 % of local hires/senior management hires outside India USA & LATAM 72% 79% 84% 70.00% Europe 95% 86% 92.86% 83.78% APAC & RoW 100% 83% 81.25% 80.00% Diversity Data % of women in total work force 24% 24% 25% 24% % of women returned immediately after 84.78% 80.06% 84% 83.20% maternity leave % of men returning after paternity leave 100% 100% 100% 100% Ratio of salary at entry level hires (Men: Women) at E0 Level (above that Not 1:1 1:01 1:01 salaries are decided basis individual merit) Available Contract staff 7783 5069 4498 -*ML as on Mar’14. Rest of the numbers are as on June 2014. Scope: HCL Technologies,Global 34 Employee Reward and Recognition As an organization, we have always tried to come up with various initiatives to create a work environment where employees feel empowered to deliver their best and where their efforts do not go unrecognized. Towards this, we have several platforms to applaud individuals for the hard work and spirit of excellence. Some of these initiatives are: O Infinity: The O Infinity League is an exclusive league formed for super achievers in HCL who have received the topmost ratings for two or more consecutive years. The O Infinity recognition ceremony is a salute to these employees for their commitment to excellence as well as their families for being a constant source of support to them. It is one of the most awaited events in the HCL calendar. These crème-de-lacrème employees are recognized and applauded in the presence of their colleagues and family members. In 2013, over 5000 outstanding achievers were felicitated at the O Infinity recognition ceremony in India. Nearly 13,000 people including family members participated in the events held across cities in India. In the Geos too, nearly 1400 employees across 28 countries were felicitated for their superlative performance! XtraMiles: A unique appreciation forum created for employees. It was launched to inculcate a culture of expressing gratitude or appreciation for a job well done by an individual. The online XtraMiles portal empowers employees to appreciate and recognize their peers/ reportees/ colleagues/ managers across the organization at the click of a button. Based on a point-reward system, they can earn “miles” of different kinds. On accumulation of a certain number of miles, they attain the membership of the prestigious XtraMiles clubs: Silver Club, Gold Club, Platinum Club and the CEO Club! All club members are felicitated and recognized with customized club kits. We have over 18000 users of the portal. SPOT R&R: There had been a long felt need at HCL to reward employees on an impromptu basis for the special efforts which they have put in while delivering and supporting their respective projects. Hence the HCL SPOT Award was launched. The aim of this initiative is to reward employees ‘on the spot’ for contributions that are regarded as noteworthy by their managers. There are nine categories in which the spot award can be given. Till date we have over 8000 SPOT awardees. 35 Working across borders Our Finland office had Townhall sessions where more than 150 participants were present. These sessions helped interactions between leadership and employees through free flowing discussions. Culturati is a global event platform in HCL through which we explore and celebrate cultures and civilizations across the globe. We dedicate the month of May towards celebration as the World Culture day falls on 21st May. HCL Poland celebrated India Day on June 27, 2014. During the celebration, Employees had a chance to take a trip to India by participating in Kathak dance workshop. We focused on raising awareness on the Indian culture and helped employees learn about the importance of cultural diversity and harmony. During the festival seasons of Easter and Christmas, our employees in Brazil thought of the less fortunate and engaged in activities for the underprivileged children. Employees in Brazil are also engaged regularly in workplace exercise programs, traditional week programs,family and fun events. Employee Feedback/Grievance Channels We have a number of channels in HCL that can used by employees to share their feedback on practices, provide solutions, ask for solutions to issues that prevent them from being productive on the job, report grievances and any workplace harassment. Informal discussions: Any employee can meet the respective manager or HR, share the concerns and get actions initiated Smart Services Desk (SSD): Employees can submit policy and support programs related queries and concerns to enabling functions for immediate actions. A total of 262026 SSDs were raised under the umbrella of Smart Service Desk in FY 2014. 36 Listen hour: Employees can meet enabling functions once a quarter and share suggestions / questions. Ask a leader: Every employee can write to their business leaders and get their concerns addressed. Ask HR: This is a forum available in MEME for employees to ask any HR related queries. SECURE: Employees and contractual staff can report workplace harassment-related grievances and receive confidential support. During FY 2014, there were 5 significant cases, all of which were resolved. Whistleblower: Employees and any stakeholder can register ethics-related complaints and initiate appropriate actions. During FY 2013, all significant cases were resolved through our ombudsman. Mobius – Employee Wellbeing, Wellness and Safety initiative Mobius is an integrated wellness initiative for HCLites and their families. The intent of Mobius is to create a culture of healthy life style among HCLites and their families The program encompasses multiple offerings: a 24x7, toll-free medical emergency number for all employees in India; a Wellness Portal to access a wealth of information on preventive healthcare, fix appointments with doctors, counselors, and health experts, and through newsletters, receive regular updates on health-related topics. 16173 HCLites have registered on the online wellness and wellbeing portal. 6246 employees have taken the wellbeing challenge. In addition a number of health camps and health talks were organized in our offices in India. 18679 employees were covered in the health camps and health talks. The health camps included eye chech ups, dental check ups, master health checkup, Cervical cancer vaccination, H1N1 Flu vaccination, skin and hair test, thyroid screening, breast cancer screening and the topics covered in awareness talk by an experts were Cancer in Women, Heart disease, Diabetes, General Health Awareness, Child Nutrition, Cervical Cancer and Ovarian Cyst. Life Coach: We provide 24/7 telephone and online counselling support for all employees and families. In addition, employees can meet the counsellors face to face at our office locations. The counsellor does floor walks in our premises. 19447 employees were covered in the life coach session and floor walks. Stepping Stone: This is a focused life coach program for women who are new mothers and require help to manage the new expectations at work and home. Women also receive access to a number of on line resources on health, parenting, managing stress and health. 949 women benefitted from this program during FY 2014. Day care centres: Parent HCLites have access to a number of referral as well as in-office day care centers. 110 parents had availed the onsite day care centers in India. Work life balance policies: 3881+ employee utilized paternity and 990+ availed maternity policy this year. A number of HCLites avail work from home and flexible hours to balance business and personal requirements. E-Learning: In FY 2014, 476 employees across the globe completed Ergonomics E learning which emphasizes the need to adopting correct body postures, workplace exercise and stretches to enhance self wellness for oneself while at work. Emergency response: Emergency numbers are printed on Employee ID card pan India. The hospitals list for emergencies is available at security desks at all office locations. Emergency Response Teams (ERT) are formed at all office locations. Situations like nationwide strikes or natural disasters will also be managed by ERT Specific trainings like First Aid/Selfdefence rolled out across facilities. A virtual blood bank with donor details is available on MEME. 1500+ HCLites are donors today. Through HCLT Foundation we access support from Red Cross, Organ Foundations, Cancer Care, HIVAIDS agencies etc. for supporting HCLites and families on critical care. We also have a doctor on the call and nurses available in all our office locations that have a significant number of employees. 37 Incident / Accident rate – FY 2014 FY 2014 Incident Frequency Rate/employees 0.228 Scope: HCLT India + 18 GDCs operations taking average yearly employee base as 91,691 for the mentioned operations. Note: As per OHSA and based on 248 Incidents for 217.85 Million hours of exposure, HCL company would experience 0.228 incidents by the time they reached 200,000 hours. (200,000 hours represents the equivalent of 100 employees working 1 full year). Safety of Women Employees in India: In the wake of a few unfortunate incidences in India against women, the National Association of Software & Service Companies (NASSCOM) had issued a set of best practices for companies to adhere to. We are committed to upholding of safety of all our employees, especially the women, and follow these best practices across all offices in India. Some of these practices are provided below: • Security Arrangements at Office Premises: Office premises are electronically and personally guarded by security guards which prohibit entry to unauthorized personnel. Premises are under surveillance using CCTV camera. With due permissions, companies are willing to share the footage with the police if required. • Safe Commuting: Travelling to and from work: Cab facility is provided to women employees for night shifts as stipulated by Shops and Establishment Act. Cabs ferrying women workforce are monitored using global positioning systems (GPS). The transport team monitors cab speed through GPS and appropriate instructions are given when found to be over speeding or diverting the usual route. Some companies have even installed the panic button in the cabs in select regions. Most routes are worked out in such a manner that as far as possible a woman employee is not the first one to be picked up or last one to be dropped. In case such a route is unavoidable, a guard is always provided to escort the women employee. The woman employee signs out the trip sheet and has the option to endorse her remarks, if any, in the trip sheet as well as give her feedback through mail. Effective checks and controls on the vehicle movement are in order to check any unwarranted activities of cab drivers, such as picking up strangers and staying away from the designated routes. Breath analyzers are used to carry out random checks on drivers to prevent drunk driving. Disciplinary action and penalties are imposed on the vendor, if found guilty. Tracking of all escort guard routes is done by the Transport Desk seeking employee confirmation on safe drop/arrival on her mobile. The transport team maintains a daily track sheet of the women employees who are commuting late in the evening with all the details such as name, complete address, mobile no, emergency mobile etc. • Emergency Response Systems: 24x7 Emergency helpline number and other important numbers are displayed in the cabs. Employees are regularly sensitized about the availability of these numbers which can be used to report emergency, life safety and security threatening situations. • Measures for Safe Hiring: Guards and Drivers are hired from licensed agencies that maintain diligent records of these employees such as recent photograph/ name/ father name/ mobile number/ license number for drivers/ permanent address/ present address/ appointment letter/ police notification. This ensures that nobody enters the premises without a valid identity proof. • Creating Awareness: Self Defence training is provided for the women employees by professional trainers to equip them to handle emergency situations. The Transport Security team carries out regular briefing sessions for escort guards and drivers sensitizing them about their roles and responsibilities while escorting women employees. All our employees go through periodic safety training as a part of our procedures drills. 38 Employee Development We launched Program FIRST, a significant investment in people practices across HCL that institutionalizes the Employee First, Customer Second (EFCS) tenets to make our programs, policies, and processes employee-led this year. As a part of Program First, we launched iPerform, the annual appraisal tool to focus on enhancing the career, performance, reward, talent, and learning management practices within the organization. Our objective is to make all employees and teams future-ready by enhancing the HCL employment experience so as to enable individual and organizational growth. During FY 2014, all eligible employees completed their appraisals, and received feedback on their performance and career growth. Technical/ Domain training for Ideapreneurs In 2014, HCL launched 98 role-based certifications to ensure continuous skill upgradation During the year 2013 – 14, we rolled out 55 skill variant certifications and 43 variant job certifications covering Technical, Behavioural and Process content. We also launched Learning Fest, a drive for skillsoft e-learning and certifications through relaxed access norms. 7,449 Participants registered for courses on iLearn during the Learning Fest and 3,977 participants completed various courses and certifications on iLearn. During the year 2013-14, we also trained 16,236 women employees across various skillsets. Description Employee covered Person days Core software division 32,987 97,109 –– E Learning 22,937 NA –– Certification (external ) 20,170 NA –– Certification (internal ) 4,683 NA Infra division 21,001 9,70,865 BSERV division 2,310 NA Awards & Recognitions – 61 awards won so far ! Listed below are few of HCL’s International awards: • Won Gold Business Impact award at CLO Learning in practice awards 2013 and Silver Strategy award • Won Collaboration award in CLO Learning in Practice awards 2012 and merit certificate for Trailblazer category • Won ASTD Excellence in Practice award consecutively for 2 years, in 2012 and 2013. Won 2 citations in ASTD Excellence in Practice award 2011 and 2012 • Won 2013 Bersin & Associates WhatWorks® Award and Leveraging WhatWorks® Award • Won Bersin 2012 Learning Leaders Award under Learning Organization and Governance excellence category • Won 3 awards at the Asian L&D Leadership Awards 2013 and 2 awards at Asia’s T&D Excellence Awards 2013 • Won Asia’s Best Employer Branding Awards consecutively for 2 years, in 2011 and 2012 • Won Indira Excellence in Innovation Awards 2013 under Best Innovative Project of the Year category 39 Softs Skills through Learning and Development We believe there is no set formula for success and motivate HCLites to be on a constant journey of selfdiscovery. Learning and Development programs give platforms to not only ideate but to learn with a focus on sustainable growth for all employees. Total no of programs 96 Number of HCLites attended 30764 Number of training person days 47284 Junior and mid level training 29878 Mid level manager training 716 Sales training unique coverage 170 Overall feedback rating 4.57 Knowledge gain 32% Per employee learning hours for trained population 12.6 hours Scope: HCL Technologies Global including entry level training Softskills Training – BSERV division BSERV Training Participation 708 1602 Female Male Categories of training include Leadership Skills, Stress Management, Lean Six Sigma Yellow Belt, Creating Successful Work Teams, Conflict Management etc. Other than this, a one-time process training is conducted for all BSERV employees when they join the organization. Our Leadership Development Programs Certified HCL Leaders: The program objective is to facilitate the transition of first-time leaders for early effectiveness, targeting newly promoted middle – senior managers. The new leaders go through a Harvard -certified leadership transition program and coaching. Leaders are immersed into the HCL context, culture and competencies so they can effectively perform in their new role. HCL Advanced Business Leadership Program: This global mini-MBA pilot program is offered to identified leaders at senior management levels for building the pool of resources for future business leadership roles. This 6-7 month high-touch hybrid program is designed with global business school partnerships to strengthen business acumen, through cross-functional integration and business management in the global business context. Women Leadership Development Program (ASCEND): This intervention is part of the Diversity initiative of HCL, which mandates increase in the representation of women in our senior management by multiple ways—including support programs, peer mentoring and coaching (all levels), and providing platforms to enable women leaders to learn and exhibit transformational leadership. The Women Leadership Development Initiative supported by L&D is part of the larger agenda that the Diversity team is perusing. Leadership Crucible: The Leadership Crucible Program aims at addressing the learning needs of the tenured and experienced functional and business leaders, on a sustainable basis. The program is designed with the primary objective of developing the right competencies, at the desired proficiency levels, required for leaders within HCL to be more successful in conducting their day-to-day business. An easy paced construct allows for self-learning and application. 40 Renew Ecosystem Respecting Planet Earth 41 Just as much as HCL believes in engaging with people to create value, the organization is committed to investing in responsible operations and environment actions. Responsible Operations Safe and comfortable work-environment for employees, water and indoor air quality, waste disposal from the facilities, reduction in employee travel and preventive health-care for employees, all fall under the Responsible Operations Strategy. We empower our employees to provide ideas, run campaigns and implement actions to conserve natural resources. We also encourage them to plant trees including indoor plants in the work areas. An example of employee-managed annual campaign is the annual ‘Earth Hour’. On this day, all our offices resort to minimal lighting both, in the offices and at their homes. Employees provide various ideas to reduce energy consumption, and one such solution is, to manage carbon which helps individuals measure their carbon footprint. This year we organized an inter-facility competition for all HCL offices pan India thus encouraging them to adopt low energy operational work-style not only for an hour in a year but through the entire year. The environmental actions are jointly implemented by the Eco Councils formed by the employees along with the functional departments managing HSE. The HSE department ensures process standardization and continuous improvements by obtaining ISO certifications. The environment certifications and resources management are primarily focused on facilities that are company-owned and house 2000+ employees. The environment policy extends to the Group/Joint Ventures/Suppliers/Contractors/NGOs/Others. For more details, please refer to the Annexure 1 detailing our Environment policy. We have not received any show cause/ legal notices from CPCB/SPCB. Our environment actions are guided by the following day-to-day operational challenges/ aspects: • We operate from distributed office facilities that necessitate an approach to achieving environmental targets in a balanced and incremental manner. • We educate and empower the supply-chain community including security, housekeeping, cafeteria, transport and other support staff in managing the environment goals. • Our efforts to promote and sustain green operations has been limited by the unavailability of power from the National Grid, which is the primary source of power for all our India-based facilities. This shortage of power has increased our dependency on Diesel Generator sets (DG). • We cater to a large global customer base and hence international travel by employees is a business requirement and cannot be avoided totally. • We participate in benchmarking efforts of various agencies and understand the required environmental targets for the Information and Communications (ICT) industry. Our efforts to educate various stakeholders across the globe have helped us to monitor and report data pertaining to ‘Responsible Operations’, from the 4 Global Development Centres (GDCs) to 14 GDCs this year. In India, a cumulative of 27 operational centres have been certified for ISO:14001 and OHSAS 18001 out of a total of 54 centres. The data includes environment and employee health aspects: energy, water, waste, incident/accident rates, and disaster/ emergency response and best practices. 42 Best Practices across Global Development Centres (GDCs) Egham, United Kingdom: To reduce the burden on earth in terms of generation of e-waste, our Egham centre replaces employee laptops every four years instead of prescribed 3 years of life. Melbourne, Australia: In our Melbourne GDC, posters have been put to generate awareness on water, energy and paper conservation. Apart from this, to promote recycling, recycled exercise books are ordered for employees. Zapopan, Mexico: In our Mexico GDC, we have motion sensors in washrooms for sinks and toilets that lead to saving of water. Also, individual light switches are available in each area and room for employees to switch on/off as desired. Tokyo, Japan: In our Japan GDC, we have replaced conventional tube-lights to CFL luminaries and also have minimized use of halogen and other energy-intensive lighting. Also, CRT monitors have been replaced with LCD monitors to further reduce the consumption of electricity. São Leopoldo, Brazil: Our Brazil office is partnering with building management to get environmental certification for the building. HCL is one of the pioneers and an active member of the ‘Green Tech Park’ project launched by several organizations sharing a common campus. The objective of this initiative is to conduct consciousness programs in the field of environmental sustainability with the help of bulletins, campaigns on correct waste disposals and rationale use of resources. HCLites are conscious about separating recyclables, reducing paper consumption and making rational use of water with push button taps. Penang and Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia: Our Penang and Kuala Lumpur offices in Malaysia do environmentally safe disposal of hazardous electrical and electronic waste through authorized waste vendors thus promoting responsible waste management. Energy and water conservation is promoted through various operational initiatives within the office. Krakow, Poland: As a segment of our Occupational Health and Safety initiative, workplace exercises/ stretching techniques were demonstrated in Poland GDC. The significance of ergonomics was also discussed. We use 100% green electricity in most of our Global Development Centres outside India. 43 Green Infrastructure: A Case point: HCL Office, SEZ Noida, India The implementation strategies for HCL SEZ (Phase-I) Noida, were planned in accordance with the LEED for existing buildings. HCL aims to achieve LEED “certified” status of green building certification. It consists of the following five sections and each section addresses the major aspects of on-going building operations. Sustainable Sites Sustainable sites category encourages strategies that minimize the impact on ecosystems and water resources. Site-specific “Building Exterior and Hardscape Management Plan” and “Integrated Pest Management, Erosion Control, and Landscape Management Plan” have been implemented on site for achieving process-driven best management practices and to make the contractors accountable for performance. A survey for alternative commuting transportation is being conducted for approximately 5000 building occupants to understand their commuting patterns and take necessary action to promote a more eco-friendly alternative to commuting among the occupants. 100% underground parking is available for HCL project buildings, thereby meeting the non-roof heat island reduction requirements by default. Sensor based interior lighting and daylight sensors have been proposed for all non-emergency lighting fixtures so that they are automatically controlled to turn off during after-hours. Water Efficiency Water efficiency category promotes efficient use of water, to reduce potable water consumption. At HCL SEZ, water consumption is estimated to be reduced by approximately 30% which has been achieved by retro-fitting all the water faucets with flow regulators. WC units were made water efficient by implementing low cost solutions. Reinstatement of sewage treatment plant (STP) was done and additional arrangements were made to supply recycled water from STP plant to meet the flushing demand as well as the water for Green Belt at the campus (Phase-I). Moreover, for water performance measurement, water sub-meters were installed to track the performance and identify further opportunities for improvement. Energy and Atmosphere Energy and atmosphere category promotes better building energy performance through innovative strategies. Energy audit was conducted at site by energy experts to identify opportunities for improving energy efficiency. Corrective actions were taken based on the recommendations of the energy audit report to plug any inefficiency in the systems and operations. Energy Management System (EMS) has been installed on site for automated data-logging of all energy meters and sub-meters. A monthly track record of the building’s energy performance is maintained through detailed energy trends. Energy performance of the facility is continuously monitored through EPA’s EnergyStar portfolio manager. Also, emission reduction reporting is done. Furthermore, a 5-year CFC phase out plan is under consideration. Materials and Resources Materials and resources category encourages using sustainable building materials and reducing waste. Several policies, like the Sustainable Purchase Policy and the Waste Management Policy, were introduced and implemented. Sustainable Purchasing Policy involved the replacement of visiting cards, notebooks, cartridges etc. with sustainable materials. It is recommended to use only Energy Star-certified electronic products and devices and to use FSC-certified wood products. Low mercury content lamps are preferred and used at the facility. Also more than 25% of food served at the facility is sourced locally within 100 miles of the facility. Solid waste audit was conducted by our vendor team, based on which a solid waste management policy for on-going consumables and durable goods was implemented. Solid Waste Management Policy includes diverting the solid waste produced on-site from the landfill and follows the 3Rs (Reduce, Reuse, Recycle) strategy. Every facility’s e-waste is disposed by certified recyclers only. 44 Indoor Environmental Quality Indoor environmental quality category promotes better indoor air quality and access to daylight and views. To maintain the indoor air quality, No Smoking Policy inside the building and Green Cleaning Policy were introduced. 30% more fresh air is supplied to regularly occupied areas as compared to the ASHRAE 62.1 requirements. On-going tracking of the building’s HVAC systems maintenance was also carried out. 3m (or 10 feet) mats were installed in the direction of passenger movement at all the entrances of the building to reduce the pollutants inside the building. Also, environment friendly Green Seal certified cleaning chemicals and products are used for cleaning at the facility. Furthermore, an occupant comfort survey is being facilitated to get feedback on thermal comfort from building occupants, and corrective measures will be taken based on survey results. Balancing Employee Comfort and Green Infrastructure requirements While designing our buildings, we consider the employee comfort aspects as well as green infrastructure requirements, and ensure synergy in our construction efforts. Some key highlights of our efforts are summarized below: 1. For employee comfortbuilding design –– Daylight (daylight factor of approximately more than 2%) is provided for all work and common areas. –– Grills and grates at entry-ways prevent dust and dirt from entering the buildings. Building materials and carpets have no, or low volatile organic compounds. –– Strict measures are taken during construction reduce air contaminants, moisture damage and dust from persisting in the finished spaces. –– The heating, ventilation, air conditioning, and fire suppression systems are free of all chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs), halons and hydro chlorofluorocarbons (HCFCs), which are known to be harmful to the ozone layer. –– Special attention has been paid to the building envelope, plumbing and air delivery systems for reduced air leakage and ensuring no cross contamination of pollutants between spaces. –– We have been using KT440 glass for structural glazing which has a high UV resistance. 2. Green Infrastructure –– Usage of Construction Material: Wood, concrete, masonry, gypsum board, ceiling tiles and ceramic tiles are all ordered in specific and required quantities to avoid waste. –– Recycling Construction Material: Waste wood, gypsum board, tiles, carpet, paint and plastic are reused or recycled at appropriate facilities. –– Using Material made of Recycled Content: Rubber and aluminium components (such as railings and window frames) have recycled content –– Designating Specific Spaces: Specific areas in each building are designated for construction material separation and collection. –– Sourcing from Local Vendors: As much as 75% of building materials are sourced locally. This supports local markets while avoiding major environmental impacts due to shipping. –– Buildings use pesticideand fertilizer-free bamboo flooring and cabinets, and sustainable and salvaged wood products. –– Solar power generation and water heating is adopted to conserve energy. –– LED lighting is adopted. 45 –– Motion sensors and day light harvesting is incorporated in the lighting designs. –– Water chilling plants with R134a refrigerant is used. –– Solar-powered compound electric fence is used to conserve energy. –– VRF and HRW units are used in HVAC systems to reduce energy consumption. –– We have provided Sewage Treatment Plants and recycling water for toilet flush, chillers, cooling towers and landscape facilitating major water conservation. –– Tree plantation to meet with 30% green cover is provided to reduce greenhouse effect. Our new facilities are designed to promote water conservation. These include low-flow toilets, low-flow faucets and hand-sprays to save the water we use; aerators on all faucets reduce water usage without compromising water pressure and installations of water and energy efficient appliances like dishwashers and washing machines. Reducing Carbon Foot Print In continuation with our commitment to reduce carbon footprint by 20% by FY 2020, we have chalked out a strategy to procure 5MW through renewable energy source by 2015. We also procured green power amounting to 16125 MW for our all our development centres. The source of this power was Biomass, wind power and hydel power. This is 46% lesser than our last year procurement. Emission Calculation Methodology We prepare our GHG emissions inventory in accordance with The Greenhouse Gas Protocol, a corporate accounting and reporting standard and ISO 14064: 2006 – ‘Greenhouse gases, Part 1: Specification with guidance at the organization level for quantification and reporting of greenhouse gas emissions and removals’. We measure our GHG emissions in tonnes of Carbon dioxide (CO2) equivalent. The CO2 emissions associated with the activities are noted on the basis of measured or estimated energy and fuel use, multiplied by significant carbon emission factors. Published national factors were used to calculate emissions from operations. In the absence of any such national data, IPCC and DEFRA’s Greenhouse Gas Conversion Factors for Company Reporting have been used for the calculation of GHG emissions. All Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions figures in the report are in tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalents (CO2e) which include Carbon dioxide (CO2), Methane (CH4), and Nitrous oxide (N2O). And other Perfluorocarbons (PFCs), Hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs) and Sulphur hexafuoride (SF6) emissions have not been reported since they are not significant to the operations. The Scope/ boundary of the yearly GHG emission reporting cover HCL’s Pan India and Global Operations covering make it 18 GDCs. This includes three business segments: Software, Infrastucture Management (Infra) and Business Process Outsourcing Services (BSERV). Emissions Data The absolute energy consumption in FY2014 is 11,13,337 GJ (which is direct and indirect energy combined). This is 26.7% less over the previous year. The per capita emissions stand at 2.58 tCo2 – employee which is 16.85% Lesser over the previous year. Facilities, where there are significant risks, are monitored for emissions of DG sets for NOx, SOx and other particulate matter at a specified frequency. 46 The emissions are within the scope of the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) approved limits and the tests are carried out by certified vendors. Total Ozone Depleting Substance (ODS) refilling across India-based locations was 11.96 MT which contributed to ozone-depletion to the magnitude of 0.537 ChloroFluro Carbons (CFC) equivalents. We believe in taking precautionary measures and promote the usage of Ozone Depleting Potential (ODP) free refrigerants. All our new and big operational centres are procuring ozone friendly coolants. For GHG emissions, our operational boundary covers five categories of activity sources which are listed below: Emission Scope Emission Source Emissions Activity Onsite electricity Core Direct (Scope 1) DG Sets CO2, CH4, N2O generation – Diesel fuel Purchased Electricity Core Indirect (Scope 2) Facility use CO2, CH4, N2O Business Travel Road Optional Indirect Vendor vehicles/ Leased CO2, CH4, N2O (Scope 3) Buses Business Travel–Air Optional Indirect Commercial Airlines CO2, CH4, N2O Domestic (Scope 3) Business Travel–Air Optional Indirect Commercial Airlines CO2, CH4, N2O International (Scope 3) Scope for all Carbon emissions is HCLT India 18 GDCs Carbon Emissions: Scope Wise (tCO2) Activity Name 2011-2012 HY 2012-2013 HY 2013-2014 HY Onsite Electricity Generation Diesel fuel (Scope 1) 56277.85651 45520.37681 30465.9908 Purchased Electricity (Scope 2) 112992.764 117196.824 137934.5603 Business Travel and Employee Commute (Scope 3) 49650.12999 69982.0017 68319.74536 47 2012-2013 HY Operation Name 2011-2012 HY (Actual) 2013-2014 HY HCL BPO operations (BSERV) 22559.13 20703.69 21397.04 HCL Comnet (Infra) operations 19744.96 16952.97 15177.91 HCL Technologies Geo's operations (GDC) 423.65 868.45 699.43 HCL Technologies operations 176193.01 194174.09 199476.15 Total emissions 2011-2012 HY 2012-2013 HY 2013-2014 HY Total Emissions (tCO2e) X 1000 218.92 232.7 236.75 48 Emission Intensity 2011-2012 HY 2012-2013 HY 2013-2014 HY Emission Intensity (tCO2e/ Emp) 3.13 3.1 2.58 Direct/ Indirect Energy 2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 Direct Energy (GJ ) (Electricity 768581 621671 416071 generated through diesel) Indirect Energy (GJ) (Purchased 548636 650466 697266 Electricity) 49 HCL also participates in the Carbon Disclosure Project and furnishes its figures in the report every year. Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) comparison YOY Category Name Score 2011 Score 2012 Score 2013 Governance & Strategy 57 65 69 Supply Chain Governance & Strategy Average 74 74 74 Risks 56 53 63 Supply chain Risks Average 42 38 38 Opportunities 51 53 56 Supply Chain Opportunities Average 36 33 33 Emissions Reporting 87 94 83 Supply Chain Emissions Reporting Average 69 67 64 Emissions Management 91 81 85 Supply Chain Emissions Management Average 61 56 57 Stakeholder Engagement 40 40 52 Supply Chain Stakeholder Engagement & 32 32 38 Verification Average Working Towards Water Neutrality by 2020 We saved approximately 6.1% absolute water consumption this year over the previous year. Our total consumption of water stands at 9,40,795 cubic metres for FY 2014 (i.e. 4,33,925 m3 of Ground Water + 5,06,870 m3 of Purchased Water = 9,40,795 m3) Water treatment and reuse All new HCL office facilities in India have Sewage Treatment Plants (STP). The treated effluent from the STP is tested regularly against various national and state effluent standards and recycled for use in HVAC System cooling tower, washroom flushing and gardening. During FY 2014, we treated and reused 4,13,583 cubic meters of water. We also continue with installing Rain Water Harvesting (RWH) plants in all office buildings with significant operations. Hazardous Waste Hazardous wastes are disposed of as per the Ministry of Environment and Forests’ (MoEF) Hazardous Waste Handling and Management Rules, through MoEF-authorized vendors only. This is overseen in some states by the local pollution control boards. Used Lube oil (left out from DG maintenance) is the main hazardous waste material which we have, and total volume figures for the same are 22.18 KL for our India-based facilities. We did not have any incidents of diesel or waste oil spills in any of our centers this year. 50 Managing E-Waste For e-waste management, we are guided by an organization-wide policy and processes. We work with licensed vendors who are certified by the Pollution Control Board in India for removal of e-waste. We also audit the vendor process on a periodic basis. The e-waste generated at the various HCLT facilities include defunct computers, monitors, servers and allied hardware. In FY 2013, 6780 units of equipment from our India based offices, amounting to e-waste were disposed through authorized handlers and recyclers. This comprises of 3238 units of desktops, 7 printers, 50 laptops and 7 servers from our India office locations. Diesel Generator Emissions SPM 154.80 MT Sox 114.66 MT Nox 481.03 MT Boundaries : PAN India Type of Waste Unit Quantity Paper Consumption Unit Batteries MT 42.34 Bangalore 5895 Oil Soaked Cotton Waste MT 0.00 Chennai 19164 DG Filters MT 0.23 Geo 2041 Electrical Waste MT 4.35 Hyderabad 1436 Electronic Waste MT 6.08 NCR 30924 Lube Oil KL 22.18 Pune 329 Carton Boxes MT 6.61 Grand Total 59789 Food Waste MT 196.63 Garden Waste MT 5.56 Paper, Tissue, Cups MT 91.34 Plastic (polybag and bottle) MT 243.02 Tin Waste MT 0.24 51 repay society nurturing relationships beyond the contract 52 The true spirit of Relationship Beyond the Contract™ transcends barriers. And this is true in HCL’s commitment to the society. Through the HCLT Foundation, HCLites are given an opportunity to extend value to the less fortunate, give back to the society and empower communities. REPAY SOCIETY The following few pages will take us the Community Initiatives undertaken by HCL during the period July 2013 June 2014 . “I slept and dreamt that life was joy. I awoke and found that life was service. I acted and, behold, service was joy.” Rabindranath Tagore About HCLT Foundation HCLT Foundation is the Corporate Social Responsibility Trust, supported by HCL Technologies, that enables HCLites to engage in meaningful community service activities. Community-based programs and activities are planned with a keen focus on sustainability and employee engagement. The Foundation was formed on the belief that every HCL employee can make a difference and is funded through employee and organizational contributions. All programs are implemented with support from employee voluntary groups called the Community Champions. All foundation-related activities and expenditures are audited and supervised by appointed trustees from the organization’s senior management. 53 Power of One Powering Relationships Beyond the Contract ‘Power of One’ is our unique CSR philosophy that drives our objectives and focus for community development. It powers and is powered by our approach to engagements, Relationships Beyond the Contract. Sparked by the spirit of Ideapreneurship, HCLites share their dreams for a better society through the ‘Power of One Dream’, while the Foundation and Community Champions enable employees to realize their dreams into implementable projects and activities. Around 37,000 HCLites contribute rupee 1 per day from their salary for community work. This fund is matched by the management for sustaining the programs. More than 19,000 employees spend a day, every week or month or year or even one hour every day for community service. Driven by values of equity and service, Power of One continues to strengthen communities while building the competencies and engagement levels of employees. The CSR expenditure by HCLT Foundation for the year 2013 – 14 was INR 28,315,162. HCLT Foundation Community Focus ECO = Environment + Community: We believe, that engaging with communities will help us meet environment goals, and through communities we can “rebalance” resources for the future. We achieve this through a three-pillar program structure: i. Community Development: Investing in the less privileged sections of society for education (HCL Gurukul), skills development and training (HCL Yuvakendra), sustainable livelihood creation and entrepreneurship (Nurture the Future) ii. Community Giving: Care giving which include infrastructure, hygiene and sanitation, and healthcare iii. Advocacy: Promoting women and children rights, and safeguarding the environment 54 The Journey So Far COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT HCL Gurukul (Education) HCL Yuvakendra (Employability Training) Nurture the Future (Women Empowerment & Entrepreneurship) HCL GURUKUL (Youth Centers) “Education is the most powerful weapon which can be used to change the world” ~ Nelson Mandela HCL Gurukul (HCLT Youth Centers) are education and skills development centers for youth located in the slums and suburbs of Chennai, Bangalore, National Capital Region (NCR) and Hyderabad. They are owned, funded and managed by HCLT Foundation, individually and in partnership with NGOs, schools and Government bodies. The objective of this community development initiative is to support the education of the child who may be at risk of discontinuing schooling due to impoverished and negative circumstances and to prevent drop-outs. 55 Case Study – Enhancing education of youth in Urban Slums through HCL Gurukuls The influx of a large number of migrants from rural areas to the cities has resulted in an alarming increase in the number of slums and urban villages. The youth and children are affected the most due to the disparity in incomes and deepening socio-economic conditions. There are 95 HCL Gurukuls of which 65 operate in the urban slums of major cities in India that have touched the lives of 25,000 youths through various programs. In FY 2013-14, 3,270 students from our Gurukuls appeared for Class 10 Board Exams and 2,057 for Class 12. Our students secured an overall pass percentage of 93.25%, and achieved 27% rise in the pass percentage as compared to last year. Nearly 24,195 youths have been covered under the after-school coaching program. Through our rehabilitation training program, we have reached out to nearly 500 girls and boys in the Government Juvenile Home in Chennai and around 300 boys in Bangalore. Around 3,250 youths have been covered through rehabilitation workshops held during FY 2013-14. Around 473 youths have been rehabilitated from drug and alcohol addiction during Vigil Camps and 900 youths have been covered through workshops held during the camps. With the support of UNICEF and HCL volunteer trainers, so far, 2,968 youths have received life-skills training with a focus on adolescence issues, relationships, nutrition and awareness on HIV/AIDS. 56 Around 1,350 students access Math Labs set up in our Gurukuls to enable students to learn Math in an interesting and engaging manner, and thus enhance their academic performance. Through NGO support, 300 school drop-outs from the slums of NCR have either been placed in schools or provided supported to complete their education between 2012-2014 through Bridge School Program, an open school program to enable youth who have dropped out of schools to complete their education. The Foundation also supports Training in Sports and Arts for youth with special talents. Around 1500 children have performed in various public events including the HCL’s Annual Spring Fest over 2013-14. The best performers are awarded scholarships to pursue professional coaching. The initiative has made a positive impact on the lives of more than 25,000 youngsters and HCL has been recognized by CRY with the “Best Child Rights Champion Award, 2013”. Bright Scholarship is, an annual scholarship to provide educational support to children of our extended support staff who have scored more than 60% from Class 1 to 12. In FY 2013-2014, this program has supported more than 300 families by helping them provide quality education for their children. CASE STUDY – Empowering youth through Digital Literacy The HCL Gurukul in Kodambakkam, Chennai, supported 150 students in 2013-2014. The Gurukul has a fully-equipped IT lab with computers and internet connectivity and most of the youths are digitally literate, thanks to our Digital Literacy Program. Around 90 youths got placed in various firms so far. And 23 students also got an opportunity to work with the State Government in the Election Commission and Adhar Card project on a contract basis. Being an IT company, our core CSR agenda is to help close the IT skills gap in communities by enabling disadvantaged persons gain access to technology and training, and become economically active. Computer education support and internet connectivity through IT labs in Gurukuls have helped instil an interest for computers in the children and youth. Volunteers conduct regular sessions in MS Office and other important digital skills like using the internet for information sourcing and expansion of knowledge. Around 16,720 students are being covered under the digital literacy program so far. CASE STUDY – Enabling a Successful Transition in the Rural Schools of Karnataka To support the education of rural youth, we have initiated the Rural Educational Project in 2013 in the Tumkur rural district of Karnataka. Under the program, we impart basic computer literacy to teachers, provide training in audio-video method of teaching, provide special coaching to the students appearing for Government exams, and have set up fully-equipped IT labs in schools. Motivational sessions are also held to guide and boost the confidence of children studying in Classes 8 to 12. We have contributed 400 desktops to 30 Government schools and 7,650 children in the district are being covered under the project. The initiative has produced excellent results across our 30 adopted schools (HCL Gurukuls) in the SSLC examinations. Out of the 2,112 students who appeared for the exams from these schools, 1,887 students have passed 874 students in first class and 468 in the second class. Also, most of the schools obtained above 90% results and 60% of schools have doubled the first-class passing rate compared to last year. There is a 15 to 20% increase in the overall results this year compared to last year! 57 1.2 HCL YUVAKENDRA Case Study Transforming lives by enhancing career and employability skills A team of 12 HCLites have been conducting placement training sessions at the Ramakrishna Mission Students Home, School and Polytechnic College in Mylapore, Chennai, for the third year students from three departments (Automobile, Mechanical and Computer Science). Every weekend they conduct aptitude training, communication training, group discussions, technical Interviews, HR interviews, and provide feedback on the areas of improvement. Thanks to the structured training and guidance of the volunteers and a fully-equipped IT Lab funded by HCLT Foundation, around 120 out of 130 students in the current batch, have been placed in various organizations such as HCL Comnet, NP Compete, DECAM solutions, Bow & Baan, Niyati Technologies, Volvo, Titan, Prabha TVS, Prabha Engineers, Skylap, Synoramo, and ICICI Prudential Insurance. Thank you volunteers for bringing smiles to not only the candidates but also their families! With a strong belief in the importance of enhancing employability and career skills in youth from less privileged backgrounds and to streamline its existing efforts in this area, HCLT Foundation has launched HCL Yuvakendra, its career and employability training wing. Yuvakendra focuses on promoting livelihood education among the youth from less privileged families and communities and those with low educational qualifications, through short term trainings in specific skills including computer skills, aptitude, communication, customer relations, etc. Eligible candidates are absorbed into the HCL workforce through special recruitment drives and career fairs in the communities. Post-placement training is provided to bridge any existing gaps in job requirements. Apart from skill training, HCL volunteers play a key role in this initiative through regular weekend volunteering programs in teaching, mentoring and training the students in soft skills and personality development. 58 In FY 2013-2014,  around 800 youths were trained in various skills and 500 youths were placed in jobs after undergoing training at the centres. 1.3 NURTURE THE FUTURE Nurture the Future is a community development program that focuses on empowering women and facilitating sustainable livelihoods including entrepreneurial training and formation of self-help groups. In March 2014, as part of International Women’s day celebrations, HCLT Foundation organized a series of workshops and training programs for women and girls, especially those from less privileged communities in four cities – NCR, Bangalore, Chennai and Hyderabad. They were trained in career skills and essential life skills, including personality development, goal setting, effective communication, SWOT analysis and motivation, and suitable job opportunities were created. Around 2,200 women within the age group of 15-30 years were trained in all the four cities. The initiative focused on providing livelihood sustainability for women through career development and creating job opportunities. Case Study Empowering the women of Madanpur Khadar and Hoshiarpur villages (NCR) HCLT Foundation has also created 350 sustainable livelihood opportunities for women from vulnerable sections of the society by providing training in various income generation opportunities to help then become self-dependent. The foundation enabled them to set up self-help groups. Micro-finance support was provided to members of self-help groups, while our NGO partners provided support for mentoring and production/marketing of the goods/services produced. On special occasions and festival seasons such as Diwali and Holi, the Foundation helped set up kiosks in the cafeterias inside some HCL facilities for these women who hail from Madanpur Khadar and Hoshiarpur villages (NCR) to sell their products. The kiosks received immense support from HCLites. More than 200 women have received this support in FY 2013-2014. The main aim of the program is to help the women lead a dignified life. HCLites visit these kiosks and encourage them. This initiative has helped build confidence in the women by testing their acquired skill/ talent, making them competent enough and providing them an opportunity to increase their standards of living. Empowering wives of Police Constables: The Foundation has also provided digital literacy training and career development training to the wives of police men (Constable grade) by setting up a full-fledged IT lab in the police quarters of Egmore, Chennai. Many of these women got jobs upon completion of training and are now supplementing their husband’s meager incomes. 200 beneficiaries were covered. 59 Empowering women with mental illness: The Foundation has provided Rehabilitation and Vocational Training support to 220 residents of the Banyan Home for Women with mental illness with regular intervention from HCL volunteers. We also supported the women by selling the products they made within and outside the HCL Campus. These were purchased by HCLites to empower the women. CASE STUDY Empowering Prison Inmates In June 2013, HCLT Foundation set up a sanitary napkin manufacturing unit at the Central Jail in Puzhal in Chennai. This is a first-of-its-kind income generation project. HCLT Foundation has set up the manufacturing unit and procured machinery while training and support is being provided by a women SHG partner. Over 300 inmates have benefited from the project so far. The produced napkins are for free distribution by the State government to government schools and hospitals. The project has enhanced the self-esteem and self-worth levels of the prisoners by involving them in a social cause. COMMUNITY GIVING To reach out to An everyday To help our those sections of collection of used supply chain the society that items of utility, which community need human care are distributed to and touch communities in need Friend in Need Just Like Us Social Recycling 60 Community Giving Impact 2013-14 In FY 2013-14, we provided micro-nutrition support to over 530 HIV infected/ AIDS-affected children 6,000+ beneficiaries were reached out to through organized health camps 600+ children affected by Cancer have been supported 11,705+ liters of blood were 330 persons with mental illness donated by HCLites across india supported through various programs and shelters 4,000+ orphans and 500+ elderly 800+ differently-abled people have destitute have benefited through food benefited through counselling services security programs 33,000+ used clothes and house hold items collected through the social recycling projects 61 2.1 Friend in Need A key factor in our EFCS philosophy is working for the betterment of our supply chain community, which comprises security personnel, transport staff, housekeeping staff and cafeteria personnel. “Teach at Office” is an education and training program aimed at strengthening skills of our support staff through sessions on spoken English, computer skills and behavior/ grooming skills. Around 2,800 support staff members have been covered through these trainings so far. Spring Fest (May-June 2014) our annual cultural event for the children from our community projects, was held in Bangalore, Hyderabad and Noida in May-June 2014. Around 1,000 children and 500 HCLites participated in the event this year. Cab Drivers Day celebrations were organized jointly by Community Champions, volunteers, administration staff and HCLT Foundation, in Noida and Chennai as “Saarthi Samaroh” and “Saarathi Sangamam” in May. More than 1,100 HCL cab drivers participated and were felicitated in the event. Over 2,500 support personnel were trained in prevention of sexual harassment channels in HCL in FY 2013-14. Programs on wellbeing were conducted for over 1500 cab drivers and transport staff in the same year. 2.2 Just like us We have also made the choice of reaching out to those sections of the society that need human touch and individual care, such as persons with mental illness, senior citizens, orphaned children and terminally ill persons. Through our Kind People Happy City Program (KPHC), HCLT Foundation supports training and development of persons with mental disabilities. HCLites also visit and spend quality time with the inmates of homes and orphanages, rehabilitate destitute women with mental disabilities women by providing good food, shelter and livelihood, and help create awareness through street theatre and other means inside and outside the project location. We also train the in painting, decorating, handicraft and conduct cultural events. We organize awareness programs and road shows on training and care of persons with mental disabilities within families and communities. In FY 2013-14, 225 volunteers have contributed 1800 hours of community service under this program. Support for Cancer Prevention and Treatment: In April 2014, HCLT Foundation donated INR 20Lakhs to the Cancer Institute in Chennai and has announced a partnership with the Institute to support its work towards cancer prevention and treatment. HCLT Foundation’s support is predominantly targeted at persons from less privileged backgrounds. The support covers, but is not limited to, the following areas: Screening women in the “no fee” category for breast cancer and lymphedema, providing breast prosthesis, campaigning and awareness creation, forming survivors’ support groups to provide counselling and regular psycho social support, and forming community health clubs in slums and suburban areas for screening and awareness creation. 2.3 Social Recycling & Disaster Relief Under Social Recycling Project, which promotes the concept of ‘recycling’ of both used and useful items, HCLites donate clothes, stationary, books, toys, etc. through social recycling boxes which are placed in HCL premises. The collected items are segregated and distributed to persons in need, donated to orphanages, old age homes, disaster relief areas, school children and children with disabilities from HCLT Foundation’s partnering NGOs and Gurukuls. Around 60,000 beneficiaries received support through this initiative. 1,000 HCL volunteers actively participated. 62 3. ADVOCACY Child Women Environment Protection Safety and Rights Wellbeing 3.1. Child Rights and Protection Campaign against Child Sexual Abuse: HCL Gurukuls are very active with “Break the Silence” campaign, an intensive, large-scale and ongoing awareness campaign against child sexual abuse. It includes interaction with children about their right to safety. Break the Silence, an educational film on safe and unsafe touch is screened in schools and communities, followed by a discussion with child rights professionals/psychologists. A walkathon was organized to boost the confidence of children so that they are not afraid of perpetrators and to help create a safe environment for children. The screening has covered over 5,000 children and youths and around 76,000 people have been made aware of this issue through this campaign since its inception in 2012. The campaign continues and aims to reach over 100,000 children over a defined period. 3.2 Women safety and wellbeing Seeing women safety as the need of the hour, we at HCL took an active decision in sponsoring selfdefence workshop for our security staff, housekeeping staff and women guards, to train them to fight back and protect themselves when faced with danger. In FY 2013-2014, 2,090 women were trained through self-defense workshops. This program has helped them become aware of some of the most common threats. In the same period, 1,630 women were covered through various health camps and awareness programs in the slums across India. 3.3 Environment We join hands with our employees, customers, supply chain and local communities in taking action to protect our environment at all levels. Our volunteers are aware of the arising biodiversity crisis and contribute actively by participating in helping conserve the local flora, fauna and ecosystem, thereby creating an ecological balance. Around 6,000 saplings have been planted by HCLites and students of our HCL Gurukuls and around 200 kgs of plastic waste have been collected during various waste collection drives held in the year. 68 awareness camps were held to sensitize people on various environmental issues such as World Earth Day campaign, World Environment Day campaign, World Water Day, No Tobacco Day, etc. 63 In order to help animals in the summer, the Water Bowl Project was launched in partnership with the Blue Cross of India. Around 1,000 youths from the communities and HCLites were involved in the water bowl painting drives and more than 1,000 water bowls have been distributed by the HCLT Foundation. EMPLOYEE VOLUNTEERING Around 19,400 HCLites have volunteered with the Foundation and have clocked close to 1,39,200 hours of community service. COMMUNITIES BEYOND INDIA United States of America: HCLA has partnered with the United Way of Greater Triange through a program called GirlSTRIDE to support and enable 175 local girls improve their academic performance and to set them on the path of graduation. We have also partnered with NPower to help nonprofits, schools and individuals build technology skills by harnessing the power of the tech community, to provide free training to disadvantaged youths and verterans, equipping them people to take on meaningful roles in the tech industry. HCLA and UW also create local opportunities for HCLites by identifying local causes to support in regions other than Cary GDC. We also support American Red Cross in its local and worldwide disaster relief and emergency response services. United Kingdom: HCL UK has partnered with The Prince’s Trust in the UK to work towards the training and development of 110 disadvantaged local youths to make them employable. HCLites also volunteer and engage with the students to develop the confidence and skills needed to turn their lives around. South Africa: In South Africa, HCL is actively working to bridge the ICT divide by investing in technology partners and the community at large. We are involved in setting up of community IT Centers, donating computers, providing Internet Connectivity, Installation and Activation, Students Entrepreneurial Skill Program (ICT Training), building ramps for students with disabilities, computer training programs, creating jobs for unemployed youth, IT installations to create Iabs for homeless residents in Cape Town shelters. These activities are helping us close the IT skills gap in communities, by enabling disadvantaged persons gain access to technology and training to become economically active. Philippines: We have donated INR 22 Lakhs to the Philippines Typhoon Relief Fund in January 2014 with contribution from HCLites and the management towards disaster relief and restoration work in the Philippines. Around 1,000 kgs of relief material have also been collected and donated. Brazil: In Brazil, around 150 employees engaged in social responsibility and supported more than 200 people in the communities. Under Santas@HCL, a two-week campaign around Christmas, HCLites turned Santa Claus for needy children in the local communities, answering their letters, giving gifts and fulfilling the wishes of the children. Employees also participated in the three-week Easter Solidarity 64 Campaign in April and collected and distributed chocolates and materials of oral hygiene for children of the ACAPASS Association. Volunteer employees also participated in the delivery of the donations, making Easter-themed games, snacks and story time with the children sheltered. HCLites collected and distributed winter clothes and basic food supplies for poor families in the region during the three-week Winter Solidarity Campaign in December. More than 200kgs of donations were given in every stage of the campaign, benefiting 1,000 families living in extreme poverty in the local community. Australia: HCL Australia conducted the Melbourne Fiesta and Hobart Fiesta in which HCLites sold raffle tickets and raised Funds for the Starlight Foundation in Australia and Starship Foundation in New Zealand. Both these organizations help terminally ill children. Over 800 dollars were raised towards these foundations. Awards and Recognitions HCL has been repeatedly honoured for its excellence in community action through its Power of One philosophy. Some of the recent awards are: • Global Sustainability Leadership Award 2014 for Best Community Action • CRY Child Rights Awards 2013 – “Best Employee Engagement Award” hails HCL’s Power of One as the most impactful employee engagement program to address Child Rights issue • Amity CSR Awards 2013 – Exemplary Contribution to the field of CSR • Award for Service to the Differently-abled by the Tamil Nadu Udavikkaram Association for the Welfare of Differently abled – April 2014 • Asian Sustainability Award for the year 2011-2012 • Asia-Pacific Enterprise Leadership Award for CSR • Social Innovator Award presented by Youth Exnora International for the year 2012-2013 CONCLUSION Power of One continues to be a powerful tool in enabling HCLites to act on the issues they care about and to become valuable agents of change in making the world a better place to live in. It is a sustainable, scalable and replicable model that doesn’t believe in just giving. HCL’s outreach programs are implemented in liaison with Governments and NGOs wherever possible. The PPP model of functioning helps track funded projects. The possible sustainability of such initiatives goes beyond years. • Check out HCLT Foundation at www.hcltfoundation.org • Visit our Facebook page https://www.facebook.com/HcltFoundation 65 This Annexure contains a snapshot of all our policies which are available in our Policies Portal. For more information on our policies please write to sustainablility@hcl.com Annexure I: Management Approach and Policies Equal Employment Opportunities and Human Rights The ‘Employees First’ philosophy upholds all our actions in providing equal opportunities, empowers and enables our employees to be leaders of change. Employee First Philosophy The philosophy is about putting our employees first to activate the value zone—where the frontline employees interact with customers and create real value for them. This recognizes the employees as strategic elements, turns the management structure upside down, and democratizes HCLT’s functions and ways of working. EFCS at work We create value in one very specific place: the interface between our employees and our customers. We call this the ‘value zone’. Every employee who works in the value zone is capable of creating high value. The whole intent of ‘Employees First’ is, to do everything that we can do to enable those employees to create the highest possible value. This has led us to take a number of actions to invert the organizational pyramid. In other words, we want management to be as accountable to the people in the value zone as the people in the value zone are to the management. EFCS is not about making employees happy or comfortable. We don’t think that employee ‘satisfaction’ is something a company should strive for. Satisfaction is a passive state and it may not produce change or improvement or innovation or much of anything. As for employee ‘engagement’, isn’t that much better than satisfaction! EFCS believes that employees who are alert would be better engaged. All actions that have emerged from this philosophy are available in the ‘Redefine Workplace’ section of this report. Diversity Plan HCLT believes in ensuring respect for each individual and creating a sense of ownership among employees across the globe. Our ‘Employees First, Customers Second’ (EFCS) guides all our actions. This philosophy drives us toward creating a unique employee organization; creating and sustaining an inverted organizational structure; ensuring trust, transparency and accountability in all that we do; and encouraging a value-driven organization culture. Our recruitment and promotion policies are based on meritocracy and ability to learn, adapt and assimilate change. We ensure equal opportunities for gender, nationality, disability, sexual orientation, religion or ethnicity for hiring, pay and career advancement. We follow a local hiring strategy based on business needs and local government policies. We comply with local laws and regulations for determining the compensation, employee notice period and other requirements. Currently, our focus is on promoting work place diversity and have specific supplier vendor diversity programs on need basis. Our Equal Employment Opportunity policy and approaches are made available to employees and key stakeholders through HCLT’s website, diversity portals and campaigns. All our job openings are posted internally and made available in our website as well as other established channels such as newspapers for eligible candidates to apply. Whenever we have operational changes, we give sufficient notice period for 66 employees to relocate or shift their base location of work. We provide support for employees to relocate, based on business requirements. The CHRO is the Custodian of Equal Employment Opportunity. The Principal Diversity Officer is responsible for coordinating the Company’s efforts to implement and disseminate the diversity plan. Any employee who feels they have been subjected to discrimination, can write to our Ethics Committee. One can also use the Whistleblower policy to report to incidents of harassment or unethical practices. All complaints are handled with the highest level of confidentiality. We provide all details pertaining to harassment and discrimination in the employee handbook. Diversity parameters are tracked in the HCL Technologies Human Resources score card. Our Employees First Governing Council, comprising of Function Heads, conducts Town Halls, meetings etc. and collectively addresses all employee questions and issues. This approach empowers employees to question the Management and become owners of change. Corporate Governance Policies We continue to focus on good Corporate Governance, in line with local and global standards. Our primary objective is to create and adhere to a corporate culture of conscience and consciousness, integrity, transparency and accountability, for the efficient and ethical conduct of business to meet obligations towards shareholders and other stakeholders. In addition to complying with the statutory requirements, effective governance systems and practices have been created towards improving transparency, disclosures, internal controls and promotion of ethics at the workplace. HCL Technologies recognizes that good governance is a continuing exercise and reiterates its commitment to pursue the highest standards of corporate governance in the overall interest of all its stakeholders. COBEC & ABAC Policies COBEC and ABAC Policies are a set of ethical standards that need to be understood and imbibed to remain above reproach at all times. Although it is not possible to anticipate every business situation or decision we might face, these policies serve as a consistent guideline for working with our clients, colleagues, vendor partners and other communities. These principles are intended to help each of us understand our responsibilities and make the right choices. They are also meant to stimulate awareness of ethical issues that we may encounter in our daily business activities. Doing the right thing begins with basic honesty and integrity. More than ever, it also depends on our good judgment and sensitivity to the way others see us and how they may interpret our actions. In case anyone witness any violation of these polices, you can immediately report the details to whistleblower.hcl@tari.co.in. All investigations will be kept confidential and managed by the office of Principal, Diversity and Sustainability. Business Gifts and Entertainment Policy HCL places great emphasis on strong corporate governance and a work culture that is inclusive, positive and productive. HCL practices transparency and integrity in all activities across its operations. Corporate Governance is an embodiment of the principles of integrity, transparency and accountability. Offering and accepting business gifts and entertainment on a modest scale is an accepted social norm in the business world. The fundamental principle is that business gifts/ entertainment should not be given or received, if the same were to influence a decision, obtain any favour or, receive any kind of preferential treatment. This policy applies to all individuals worldwide working for all affiliates and subsidiaries of HCL Technologies Limited at all levels and grades. However, a business gift/ entertainment is never permitted, if: Offered directly or indirectly to any Third Party, with an intention to influence a decision, obtain favour or get preferential treatment or made in violation of the ABAC Policy; Is in the form of cash, cash equivalent (store cards/ gift cards or vouchers) or precious metals or jewellery; Prohibited by law or regulation; When 67 it is known to us to have been prohibited by the employer of intended recipient; When disclosed publicly, would not be in the best interest of HCL or would be cause of an embarrassment for HCL (e.g. “adult” entertainment of any sort or any entertainment which could be viewed as “excessive” by any reasonable third party). WhistleBlower Policy The principles of Trust through Transparency and Accountability are at the core of HCLT’s existence. To ensure strict compliance with ethical and legal standards across the company, the Whistleblower policy has been created. The protected disclosure can be made in any of the following methods: The report can be submitted to Whistleblower Committee, CEO’s Office-HCLT, A-9, Sec.3, Noida, and U.P. India. An e-mail complaint can be sent to the Whistleblower Committee at whistleblower.hcl@tari.co.in Equal Opportunity Employer Our Equal Opportunity Employer Policy emphasizes treating employees without any discrimination with regard to their race, religion, sex, colour, age, national origin, pregnancy, sexual orientation and physical ability. This policy governs all areas of employment, including recruiting, hiring, training, promotions, compensation, benefits, discipline, and Terminations. It also covers apprenticeship, pre-apprenticeship, and/ or on the job training. At HCL, we ensure adherence to the laws of the land with regard to employment norms and will not indulge in practices such as employing child labour, bonded labour etc. Prevention and Redressal of Sexual Harassment at workplace Policy Prevention and Redressal of Sexual Harassment at Workplace Policy applies to all employees in relation to other employees of HCL as well as others like contractual staff, vendors, clients, consultants, trainees, and visitors. Any complaint on the harassment of an employee by any of the others or of any of the others vice versa will be treated under this policy. We have set up a Secure Governing Council (SGC) with senior employees under the leadership of the Head of Human Resources (HR) to look into this matter. This committee also has an external expert to provide objectivity in all its proceedings, and will also take local help in the countries in which we operate on consultation basis. For any grievances, employees must write to secure@hcl.com and/or report harassment to a supervisor or HR representative or members of the SGC. In accordance with local laws governing such workplace harassments and company procedure, all complaints will be investigated fairly and any misconduct, intentional or otherwise, will attract reformative and disciplinary action, including warnings, memos up to termination of contract. Procurement Policy Our procurement approach is guided by our Purchase Manual. We adhere to fair and equitable dealings. Vendors who are identified to have any unethical practices are removed from the supplier-vendor list. Our emphasis is on prioritizing the environment. Vendors committed to upholding human rights and environmental issues are given preference, while all other factors relating to quality and the competitive aspects of the quotes remain the same as others. We ensure that the preference is given to local vendors for outsourcing jobs pertaining to facilities management, procurement of materials for infrastructure development and other operations. More than 95% of our vendors are local, thus majority of our spend is on local vendors thus creating employment and economic opportunities in the locations that we operate from. We procure our IT equipment and software from vendors committed to sustainability. For non IT resources, we strictly monitor the vendors for statutory compliance and audit their operations at the time 68 of renewing the contract(s). We ensure that our company’s social and environmental performance extends to our supply chain by sharing our expectations with our suppliers from time to time. We also intend to procure 5% of our goods from marginalized and vulnerable sections of society such as destitute women and people with disabilities. We have circulated the Whistle-blower policy to all our vendors and have shared our commitment to upholding transparency and ethics in all transactions. The Ethics Dialogue forum is also available to vendors to share with us their concerns and best practices. Community Outreach Policy Our Community Outreach policy is founded on “Employee First Philosophy”. HCL’s Sustainability programs are driven by the “Rebalance” vision, which focuses on helping HCL conduct business responsibly by considering the impact on the society and environment in which the business operates in. This “Rebalance” vision encompasses activities that fall under four major components—Responsible Business (governance and transparency), Redefine Workplace (human resources management), Renew Ecosystem (environment matters) and Repay Society (social responsibility and corporate citizenship). There are policies that guide the actions under each component. The objectives of this policy are to provide a scope to HCL’s approach to community outreach selecting a project or/and partner for implementing actions and/or charitable donations HCL’s community focus is founded on two principles: 1. Our commitment to responsible growth by creating sustainable livelihoods and dignified life for the less privileged in the locations we operate in. 2. Our employees’ passion to bring tangible changes in the lives of people through volunteerism. Any community or charity program in which HCL will associate with, should essentially fall under the above two principles and be aligned to the Millennium Development Goals (MDG) as professed by United Nations. Based on these principles, HCL’s community outreach priorities are: 1. Community Development: Develop youth for employment through coaching, skills training, and bridge schools; Empower women and girl children to lead dignified lives. 2. Community Giving: Reach out to provide care for the marginalized and terminally ill. 3. Advocacy: Advocate rights of children and women including health and wellbeing. Siting Policy for setting up operations Responsible siting of infrastructure/offices requires an understanding of interactions with permitting agencies, the public, wildlife, and surrounding land used for our operations. This policy defines the guidelines that HCL and its subsidiaries adhere to during selection of a site. This policy is applicable to all leased and owned infrastructure/office(s) of HCL Technologies Ltd and all its subsidiaries located in any geography. An organization and its area over a period of time may cause significant damage to the surrounding environment and ecological features due to the cumulative emissions or waste generated in the zone. They are, therefore, required to be sited, striking a balance between economic and environmental considerations. HCL always identifies the location for both leased and owned infrastructure/office operations based on multiple parameters such as business model, access to human resources including supply chain, well developed communication, network by road, rail and air. HCL prefers locations identified as industrial zones by the local government for any infrastructure development and is also compliant with local laws for infrastructure development. The organization applies a due diligence process during any merger and acquisition, which covers verification of policies and practices on issues related to employees, human rights and environment along with legal compliance checks. 69 At HCL, we ensure that there is no negative impact on the biodiversity, and that operations do not have significant water discharge or spills that can affect local water bodies. Occupational Health & Safety Policy As an ‘Employee First’ organization, HCL Technologies believes that Human Capital is our greatest strength. The health, safety and wellbeing of our employees and other stakeholders are essential element of a the success and sustainability of our business. HCL Technologies is committed to achieve occupational health and safety (OH&S) excellence by: • Ensuring the health and safety of its employees, contractors, visitors and other stakeholders affected by its operations. • Meeting all applicable occupational health and safety statutory requirements of the land and other requirements applicable to the organization. • Taking suitable measures to prevent occupational injuries and illness, and provide a safe and healthy working environment to its employees and others affected by its operations. • Ensuring robust management of our OH&S Activities like any other critical business activity; by incorporating appropriate safety and health considerations into our business decisions. • Consulting with employees in a meaningful and effective manner on OH&S issues to enable each concerned employee to contribute to decisions that may affect their health, safety and wellbeing at work. Environment Policy As a responsible corporate, HCL believes we have an accountability towards the future and an imperative role to play in addressing global challenges such as climate change and environmental sustainability. HCLT commits itself to confronting these challenges by assuming a leadership role in fostering a sustainable environment and responding appropriately to the risks posed by environmental degradation. HCLT will strive to achieve excellence in environment management in its areas of operations by: • Integrating environment considerations into our all areas of operations, taking into account our environment risks, responsibilities and organizational capability. • Meeting all applicable environment laws of the land and other requirements applicable to the organization. • Reducing our ecological footprint through optimized utilization of natural resources including land, water and by ensuring the responsible use of energy throughout our operations including conserving energy, improving energy efficiency, and giving preference to renewable over non-renewable energy wherever feasible. • Introducing more sustainable and green procurement approaches. • Preventing pollution and minimizing all types of waste, including e-waste by adopting Reduce-ReuseRecycle Philosophy. • Being an environmentally-responsible neighbour in the community where we operate, and correct incidents or conditions that endanger the environment and by committing ourselves to open and constructive engagement with communities surrounding our operations on environment matters. 70 Prevention of Pollution • Complying with environmental laws and regulations promulgated by Central and State Governments • Assessing and minimizing impact of business activities on environment by optimizing or in minimizing power and energy consumption, reducing carbon footprints, conserving natural resources and promoting Green Initiatives. • Minimizing waste generation and disposing waste that includes, but not limited to waste water, paper and e-waste in an environment friendly manner, and through authorized and certified disposal agencies • Encouraging and creating awareness amongst all employees in understanding and fulfilling their environmental responsibilities and those of the company • Communicating the Environmental Policy to both internal and external stakeholders The Management commits itself to compliance with the ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 standards. E-Waste disposal • Strictly follow guidelines of the respective pollution boards and ministry of environment and forests for disposing and managing wastes • All hazardous wastes like used oil, PCs, monitors, batteries are disposed through re-cyclers authorised by Pollution Control Board Information Security Policy Our Information Security Policy is in compliance with ISO 27001 standard and includes, but is not limited to, electronic/print information etc on servers, workstations, laptops, networking and communication devices, tapes, CDs and information printed or written on paper or transmitted by any medium. The Policy ensures that: • Information is protected from unauthorized access, use, disclosure, modification, disposal or impairment, whether intentional or unintentional, through appropriate technical and organizational security measures. • The Confidentiality, Integrity and Availability of all such information, whether acquired permanently or in transit, provided or created, is ensured at all time. • Information Risk Assessment will be carried out and criteria established for evaluation and acceptance of risks and acceptable levels of risks defined. This will be reviewed periodically and whenever necessary. • Any security incidents, security weaknesses and infringement of the policy, actual or suspected, are reported, investigated by the designated Chief Information Security Officer and appropriate corrective and preventive action initiated. • Business Continuity Plan is developed, maintained and tested. Awareness programs on Information Security are available to all employees and wherever applicable to third parties such as subcontractors, consultants, vendors etc. and regular training imparted to them. The details of all the above mentioned policies can be made available on request. Key Membership Forums & Engagements Many of our senior leaders play key roles in the advisory councils and steering bodies for promoting Diversity and Sustainability. These include prestigious forums, some of which are captured herewith: • WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM: HCL is a strategic partner at the forum, which is the highest level of partnership available for any organization across the globe. The Forum has defined industry clusters and communities that partner companies can participate/support throughout the year. 71 • HCL is a part of Information and Communication Technology Industry (ICT) –– Within this Industry Cluster, HCL is a part of a forum initiative on Partnering For Cyber Resilience, whereby HCL has committed to improve cyber resilience, raise business standards and to contribute a safer and stronger connected society. –– A project that HCL has been part of for the past couple of year is New Energy Architecture • HCL supports the following two communities: –– Young Global Leader –– R Srikrishna, Executive Vice President and Global Head of Infrastructure Services and Healthcare Services, HCL, has been nominated as a Young Global Leader at the Forum for his contribution in developing the Infrastructure Services Industry –– Schwab Foundation for Social Entrepreneurs –– HCL extends its own entrepreneurial DNA within this community to help identify the best social entrepreneurs across the world. NASSCOM HCL has been a member of National Association of Software Services Companies ever since HCL Technologies Ltd. was incorporated in 1999. HCL abides by all rules, regulations, guidelines and best practices prescribed by this apex body of all technology and information service provider companies in India. In fact, HCL has been instrumental in starting the Remote Infrastructure Management Industry Forum at NASSCOM. It is also an active member of the Diversity and Inclusivity Initiative of NASSCOM and HCL was recognized as the best Glocal company (NASSCOM HR Awards the Glocaliser category) amongst all NASSCOM members. CII HCL has been a member of the Confederation of India Industries (CII) ever since HCL Technologies Ltd was incorporated in 1999. HCL abides by all rules, regulations, guidelines and best practices prescribed by this apex body of all corporations in India. 72 Annexure II: Additional Information pertaining to GRI guidelines GRI clause Requirement Information no. 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks Management disclosure and analysis report and opportunities 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal HCL Technologies Limited is a Public Limited Company. form. It is listed with the Indian Stock Exchanges viz. BSE and NSE. 4.1 Governance structure of The highest body of the Company’s Governance Structure the organization, including is the Board of Directors which consists of eleven committees under the highest members. The Company appoints both Executive as well governance body responsible as Non-Executive Directors after taking into consideration for specific tasks, such as various aspects such as knowledge, expertise and setting strategy or organizational experience. oversight. There are seven Board Committees of the Company constituted to perform their specific assigned tasks. The Committees are: 1. Audit Committee 2. Compensation Committee 3. Nominations Committee 4. Risk Management Committee 5. Finance Committee 6. Shareholders' Committee and 7. Employees' Stock Options Allotment Committee. The members of all the Committees are appointed as per their special knowledge and experience. For example: • The Audit Committee consists of four members and all of them are experts in the finance and accounting. • The expert directors in the human resource and management are the part of Compensation Committee. Details of the roles of all the Committees are provided in the Corporate Governance Report. The Board of Directors are responsible for all the tasks performed by the committees and all the committees submit their report and recommendation on a quarterly basis. 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the The Chairman of the Board of Directors is the promoter highest governance body is also director who is designated as Chairman and Chief an executive officer. Strategy Officer of the Company. 73 GRI clause Requirement Information no. 4.3 For organizations that have a The highest Governance Body of the Company is the unitary board structure, state the Board of Directors consisting of eleven members. number and gender of members Out of eleven directors, two are the Executive Directors of the highest governance body and nine are Independent Non-Executive Directors that are independent and/or including one woman director. non-executive members. 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders Mechanism for shareholders: and employees to provide 1. The shareholders can give their recommendation at the recommendations or direction to general meetings in which they directly interact with the the highest governance body. Board of Directors. 2. There is a designated email id: investors@hcl.com to which investors can send their request/ recommendation/direction/query/observation etc. directly to the compliance officer of the Company. 3. The Shareholders can write letters to the compliance officer in case they want to send their recommendation/ direction/observation etc. with regard to the Company. 4.5 Linkage between compensation The Company always tries to link between the for members of the highest compensation of members of the highest governance governance body, senior body, senior managers, and executives with the managers, and executives organization's performance (including social and (including departure environmental performance.) The evaluation of the arrangements), and the Directors is not done on an individual basis. The Board organization's performance evaluates its performance on a collective basis. Any (including social and decisions taken by the Board are reviewed by it on environmental performance). periodical basis to determine the effectiveness of its decision making. For example, if the Board takes any decision to acquire a particular business/ entity, the performance of that business/ entity is regularly monitored and reviewed by the Board. Remuneration criteria for Executive Directors: The remuneration criteria for Executive Directors of the Company are recommended by the Compensation Committee to the Board. After evaluating various factors the Compensation Committee recommends the compensation to the Board and the Board considers and approves the remuneration subject to the final approval of the shareholders. The Compensation Committee of the Company also grants stock options to the Employees (including Directors). Remuneration criteria for Non-Executive Directors: The Company pays sitting fee to its Non-Executive Directors for attending the meetings of the Board of 74 GRI clause Requirement Information no. Directors, Audit Committee and Finance Committee of the Company. The Company pays commission to its Non-Executive Directors as approved by the Board within the limits approved by the shareholders of the Company. The said commission is decided each year by the Board of Directors and distributed amongst the Non-Executive Directors based on their attendance and contribution at the Board and certain Committee meetings, as well as the time spent on operational matters other than at meetings. Remuneration of Corporate Officers The remuneration of the corporate officers are finalized by the Compensation Committee. 4.6 Processes in place for the The Directors of the Company disclose to the Board on a highest governance body to periodic basis, their nature of interest in other entities. The ensure conflicts of interest are Company also receives the annual certification from the avoided. directors/senior management that they have not entered into any material transaction with the Company in which they had or were deemed to have any personal interest that may have a potential conflict with the interest of the Company. In case any resolution is proposed before the Board, for entering into any transaction with any other company in which any Directors are interested, that Director who is interested, does not participate in the discussion so that there is no conflict of interest. 4.7 Process for determining the Appointment of Board Members: composition, qualifications, and Executive directors are appointed by the shareholders expertise of the members of the for the tenure of a maximum period of five years, and are highest governance body and eligible for reappointment upon completion of their term. its committees, including any The tenure of Non-Executive, Independent Directors on consideration of gender and the Board of the Company shall be 9 years. other indicators of diversity. The Company also appoints both Executive as well as Non-Executive Directors of the Company after taking into consideration various aspects such as knowledge, expertise and experience. Appointment of Board Committees Members: The Board Committees are constituted taking into consideration the regulatory/ business requirements. The constitution of Committees is decided by the Board on the basis of their knowledge, expertise and experience of the member for that Committee. 75 GRI clause Requirement Information no. 4.9 Procedures of the highest Economic performance: The Audit Committee of the governance body for overseeing Company reviews the economic performance of the the organization's identification Company on a quarterly basis and submits to the Board and management of economic, with its recommendation. environmental, and social Environmental and social performance: The Company performance, including relevant has a dedicated team which works toward Sustainability risks and opportunities, and including environmental and social performance. adherence or compliance with internationally agreed standards, The Company has a whistleblower policy, which is codes of conduct, and based on the principles of Trust through Transparency principles. and Accountability. To ensure strict compliance with ethical and legal standards across the company, the Whistleblower policy has been created. Employees can report any incident pertaining to ethics, unacceptable activity, discrimination or any violation of rules/policies of the Company to the Ethics Committee. All complaints are handled with highest level of confidentiality. Risk Management: At HCL, the philosophy of Risk Management is that, every employee of HCL, either directly or indirectly, is responsible for managing risks. The Company has a Risk Management Committee to: • Review key risks and their mitigating strategies with the management. • Assist the Board in fulfilling its corporate governance responsibility in reviewing the activities with regard to the identification, evaluation and mitigation of operational, strategic and external environmental risks. • Review and approve the risk management policy and associated framework, processes and practices of the Company. Compliance with internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct, and principles: Code of Business Ethics and Conduct: The Board has prescribed a Code of Conduct that provides for transparency, behavioral conduct, a gender friendly workplace, legal compliance and protection of Company's property and information. The code covers all employees, directors, third party vendors, consultants and customers across the world. A declaration to this effect is signed by the CEO and Chairman & Chief Strategy Officer. The Company reinforced its responsibility towards balanced governance with the dissemination of the Code of Business Ethics and Conduct (COBEC); Anti-bribery and Anti-corruption (ABAC) Policy; and Business Gifts and Entertainment Policy (BGEP). 76 GRI clause Requirement Information no. Code for Prevention of Insider Trading: The Code for Prevention of Insider Trading inter-alia prohibits purchase/sale of shares of the Company by employees/directors while in possession of unpublished price sensitive information in relation to the Company. The Company within two working days of receipt of the information under the Initial and Continual disclosures from Directors shall disclose the same to all the Stock Exchanges, where the shares of the Company are listed. Anti-Briber Anti Bribery and Anti Corruption Policy To ensure that the Company conducts its business activities with honesty, integrity and highest possible ethical standards, the Company has introduced the Anti Bribery and Anti Corruption Policy that applies to the employees at all levels, directors, consultants, agents and other persons associated with the Company, its affiliates and subsidiaries. The policy elaborates the Company’s commitment towards the prevention, deterrence and detection of fraud, bribery and other corrupt business practices. Prevention of Sexual Harassment Policy In order to ensure an additional mode for the employees, under the Sexual Harassment Policy, to voice their concern and bring it to the organization’s notice, a mechanism is in place for them to report any issues, abuse, etc. to a Council formed for this purpose. Any employee dissatisfied with the decision has a direct access to the CEO of the Company. 4.10 Processes for evaluating the The evaluation of the Directors is not done on an individual highest governance body's basis. The Board evaluates its performance on a collective own performance, particularly basis. Any decisions taken by the Board are reviewed with respect to economic, by it on periodical basis to determine the effectiveness environmental, and social of its decision making. For example, if the Board takes performance. any decision to acquire a particular business/ entity, the performance of that business/ entity is regularly monitored and reviewed by the Board which gives the Board. 77 Awards and Recognitions • Prestigious CNBC-TV 18’s India Business Leader Award for ‘Outstanding Company of the Year – Penultimate award in corporate excellence’. • Good Corporate Citizen Award by PHD Chamber of Commerce and Industry. • 2014 Women’s Empowerment Principles (WEPs) Leadership Award – 7 Principles’ for its commitment to advance gender equality, reduce discrimination and monitor progress. • ‘Best Governed Company Award’ by Asian Centre for Corporate Governance and Sustainability at the Asia Business Responsibility Summit 2014. This award is an acclaimed recognition for a corporate practicing best corporate governance norms in both letter and spirit. • ‘Diamond and Gold Awards for Marketing Excellence’ in November 2013 by IT Services Marketing Association (ITSMA), the leading marketing association for technology, communications and professional service providers. • ‘CRY Best Employee Engagement Award’ for the most impactful employee engagement program to address Child Rights issue for its “Power of One” initiative. • Recognition as one of Britain’s Top Employer for the eighth consecutive year for its employee friendly HR policies and practices. • Six prestigious awards at the Global Talent acquisition & Recruiting & Staffing Best in Class (RASBIC) Awards for ‘Best Overall Recruiting and Staffing Organization of the year’, ‘Innovation in Recruitment’, ‘Most Innovative Recruiting & Staffing Program’, ‘Best Use of Technology for Recruiting’, ‘Best Social Networking Recruitment Effort’ and ‘Best B School Recruiting Program’. • Recognized as the Most Innovative Services Provider in Nordic Region by KPMG Nordic survey. • Featured as a Leader in the Mobile Service space by IDC. • Recognition by a leading advisory and research firm Everest Group as a ‘Leader and Star Performer’ in Life Sciences IT Outsourcing Market. 78 GLOSSARy GLOSSARY AA Account Ability ABAC Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption ADEC African Diaspora Employee Council APAC Asia Pacific APELA Asia Pacific Enterprise Leadership Award ASHRAE American Society of Heating Refrigerating and Air Conditioning Engineers BGEP Business Gift and Environment Policy BPO Business Process Outsourcing BRI Business Ready Infrastructure BRR Business Responsibility Reporting CAC Customer Advisory Council CCTV Closed Circuit Television CDO Chief Delivery Officer CDP Carbon Disclosure Project CEO Chief Executive Officer CFC Chloro-Fluoro Carbon CFL Compact Fluorescent Light CGT Consumer Goods Technology CHRO Chief Human Resource Officer CII Confederation of Indian Industries CIO Chief Information Officer COBEC Code of Business Ethics and Conduct CoP Communities of Practice CPCB Central Pollution Control Board CRT Cathode Ray Tube CSAT Customer Satisfaction CSC Catalyst for Social Change CSR Corporate Social Responsibility DCIP Data Centre Improvement Project DEFRA Department for Environment Food and Rural Affairs DG Diesel Generator EFC Employee First Council EFCS Employee First Customer Second EPA Environment Protection Agency EPIC Employee Passion Indicative Count EPS Earnings Per Share ERT Emergency Response Team FSC Forest Stewardship Council FY Financial Year GDC Global Development Centre GHG Green House Gases 79 GLOSSARY GJ Giga Joules GPC Good Practices Conference GPS Global Positioning System GRI Global Reporting Initiative GSPR Global R&D Service Providers' Rating HCFC Hydro Chloro Fluoro Carbon HSE Health Safety and Environment HVAC Heating Ventilation and Air Conditioning IAOP International Association of Outsourcing Professionals ICSI Institute of Company Secretaries of India ICT Information Communication Technology INR Indian National Rupee IPCC Inter-Governmental Panel on Climate Change IPR Intellectual Property Rights ISO International Standard Organization IT Information Technology KM Knowledge Management LATAM Latin America LCD Liquid Crystal Display LEAD Latino Employee Alliance for Diversity LED Light Emitting Diode LEED Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design MAD JAM Make A Difference Jamboree MAD LTD Make A Difference, Lead The Difference MAT Minimum Alternative Tax MDG Millennium Development Goals MoEF Ministry of Environment and Forests MW Mega Watt NASSCOM National Association of Software and Service Companies NCR National Capital Region NGO Non-Governmental Organization ODP Ozone Depleting Potential ODS Ozone Depleting Substance OHS Occupational Health and Safety OSHAS Occupational Health and Safety Audit System PBIT Profit Before Interest and Taxes PBT Profit Before Taxes PUMA Providing Users Mobile Access PwD Person with Disabilities RBTC Relationship Beyond the Contract R&D Research and Development ROCE Return on Capital Employed RoW Rest of the World 80 GLOSSARY RWH Rain Water Harvesting SCCM System Centre Configuration Manager SEBI Securities and Exchange Board of India SEZ Special Economic Zone SHG Self Help Group SLA Service Level Agreement SPOF Single Point of Failures SSD Smart Service Desk SSON Shared Services and Outsourcing Network STP Sewage Treatment Plant TB Tera Byte TechCEED Technical Competency Enhancement for Enabling Development TTT Train The Trainer UNGC United Nations Global Compact UNICEF United Nations Children's Fund USA United States of America UV Ultra Violet VDI Virtual Desktop Infrastructure WEP Women's Empowerment Principles Sustainability Report Team: Jageer Hussain, Bharathi Hariharan and Team 360 Marketing. 81 Hello there! I am an Ideapreneur. I believe that sustainable business outcomes are driven by relationships nurtured through values like trust, transparency and flexibility. I respect the contract, but believe in going beyond through collaboration, applied innovation and new generation partnership models that put your interest above everything else. Right now 95,000 Ideapreneurs are in a Relationship Beyond the Contract™ with 500 customers in 31 countries. How can I help you?
