2015 CSR Report Contents P.02 Company Philosophy, Company Vision, P.23 Goal 1 Contributing to Build a Safe, Secure, and Comfortable Company Policy ■ Service to Customers P.03 About this report ■ Solutions for Social Issues ■ Editorial Policy ■ Response to Social Expectations ■ Boundary Definitions ■ Reporting Period P.32 Goal 2 Maintaining Harmony with the Global ■ Guidelines used as reference Socio-Economy ■ Expanded information on the web ■ Establishment of Compliance ■ Date of issue ■ Promotion of Risk Management ■ Supply Chain Management ■ Respect for Human Rights and Promotion of Diversity P.04 Top Commitment ■ Human Resource Development ■ Labor Safety and Health 120 Years in Business Implementing “envision : ensure” in order to build a better society ■ Promotion of Social Contribution Activities P.05 Company Profile P.59 Goal 3 Promoting Global Environmental ■ Anritsu Group Profile Protection ■ Business Outline ■ Eco-Management, Eco-Mind ■ Global Network ■ Eco-Office, Eco-Factory ■ Eco-Products Development P.11 CSR at Anritsu ■ Group Environmental Impact Data ■ Basic Concept ■ Environmental Accounting ■ Promoting Global CSR Activities based on Business ■ History of Anritsu's Environmental Management Activities Strategies ■ For Achieving Four Goals P.91 Goal 4 Promoting Communications ■ Anritsu’s Stakeholders and Four Goals ■ Communication with Stakeholders ■ Materiality ■ Shareholders and Investors ■ CSR Promotion System ■ Business Partners ■ Promotion of Global CSR ■ NGOs and NPOs ■ CSR Results for Fiscal 2014, CSR Objectives for ■ Employees Fiscal 2015 P.97 Corporate Governance ■ Basic Concept P.17 Stakeholder Dialogue Key CSR Issues for the Global Expansion of Anritsu ■ System Overview ■ Company Structure ■ Status of Internal Audits and Audits by Auditors ■ Audit Committee and Management Audit Department ■ Status of Accounting Audit ■ Role of Outside Officers ■ Compensation of Directors ■ Sharing Sustainability Issues and Bolstering Knowledge among the Management Executives P.105 GRI Guidelines Index P.109 Independent Review Anritsu CSR REPORT 2015 01 Company Philosophy, Company Vision, Company Policy Company Philosophy, Company Vision, Company Polic y Anritsu is putting into practice the basic principles of its company philosophy, vision and policy. Anritsu also respects the Global Compact that Anritsu upholds as the principles of action for a global enterprise. And Anritsu is promoting CSR activities by adhering to the Anritsu Group Charter of Corporate Behavior and the Anritsu Group Code of Conduct that set out concrete values and behavioral guidelines. Company Philosophy Company Vision Company policy Anritsu Group Charter of Corporate Behavior Anritsu Group Code of Conduct Anritsu Group Charter of Corporate Behavior The Anritsu Group's philosophy is to create corporate value with sincerity, harmony, and enthusiasm. We will provide solutions through innovation using all knowledge of all parties with the core being our original & high level technology. At the same time we will conduct our business with high ethics and the goal of contributing to the advancement of society. The Anritsu Group will act enthusiastically to carry out its corporate social responsibility with sincerity and with respect for the individual, while at the same time working to assure that we address the interests of all our stakeholders: shareholders, customers, suppliers, employees, and local and global societies. Protecting Human Rights The Anritsu Group will respect the human rights of all those who are connected with it, and will not permit any discriminatory practice related to race, gender and so forth or infringement of individual dignity, and will never accept child labor or forced labor. Valuing Employees The Anritsu Group will respect each employee's individuality and will create work environments where all of its employees can fully demonstrate their abilities and carry out their jobs with enthusiasm. Harmony with Society The Anritsu Group will respect the customs and cultures of the international society and the local society, and will manage its activities in a way that contributes to the development of all societies that it interacts with. Preserving the Global The Anritsu Group will reduce the impact of its operations on the global environment and will contribute to build a sustainable society. Environment Conducting Social The Anritsu Group will, as a good corporate citizen, actively engage in activities that contribute to the betterment society in addition to its Contribution Activity normal business operations. Attaining Customer The Anritsu Group will develop and provide socially useful products and services, giving full consideration to quality, safety and the Satisfaction environment. This combination of receiving value and receiving it from a socially responsible company will result in high customer satisfaction. Conducting Ethical The Anritsu Group will engage in fair, transparent, and free competition, and will maintain healthy and normal relationships with political Company Activities institutions, governmental administration as well as citizens and other organizations. Disclosing Corporate The Anritsu Group will disclose its corporate information in a timely, clear, and appropriate manner in order to improve the transparency Information of its corporate activities. Managing Information The Anritsu Group will execute proper management of information property it obtains including observing privacy policies concerning Property individual information and customer information. The Anritsu Managers will take the responsibility for implementing this charter and for taking all necessary action in order to raise awareness in their corporation. They will also take initiative and set an example so that every employee in the Anritsu Group becomes fully aware of the philosophy in this Charter. This includes creating corporate in-house systems to fulfill the intent of the Charter and endeavoring to maintain high corporate ethics. When a law or a rule is violated, the Manager must take action to notify senior management and then work together to resolve the problem, endeavoring to clarify its causes and prevent its recurrence. And the Manager will promptly and adequately disclose all relevant information to the public when deemed appropriate, and will institute disciplinary action upon identifying who authorized and was responsible for such acts. No responsible employee or officer is to be shielded from these disciplinary actions. Anritsu CSR REPORT 2015 02 About this report About this report Editorial Policy We publish CSR Report 2015 in PDF format to report our CSR activities for fiscal 2014. Having been organized under the 12 material issues identified through a materiality assessment conducted in 2008, the concrete status of activities is presented in this report for communicating our CSR activities to more stakeholders. Boundary Definitions This report covers Anritsu Corporation only or the Anritsu Group Companies, according to subject and definitions as follows: “Anritsu” or “Anritsu Group” refers to both Anritsu Corporation and the entire Anritsu Group. “Anritsu Corporation” refers to Anritsu Corporation in Japan only. “Group Company (or Companies)” refers to a group company (or companies) or all group companies, excluding Anritsu Corporation in either case. Reporting Period This report covers the period from April 1, 2014 to March 31, 2015, and also includes some activities before and after that period. Guidelines used as reference · ISO 26000:2010 · GRI Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (G4) · The Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact Expanded information on the web Please refer to the following websites for further information For details on CSR For details on financial URL activities URL performance Date of issue October1, 2015 Anritsu CSR REPORT 2015 03 Top Commitment Top Commitment 120 Years in Business Implementing “envision : ensure” in order to build a better society October 2015 Hirokazu Hashimoto Representative Director, President Since its founding in 1895, Anritsu has been a pioneer in the telecommunications field, marking its 120 years of growth with achievements that include creating the world’s first practical wireless telephone, which paved the way for today’s smartphones. We would like to express our sincere gratitude to our customers and everyone else who has made this possible. With its measurement business as the pillar supporting the further advancement of its mobile broadband services, Anritsu offers solutions that are indispensable for building a safer and more secure society in a broad range of fields including quality assurance inspection equipment for foods and pharmaceutical products, remote monitoring and control systems, traffic shapers, and highspeed electronic devices. Through remarkable advances in telecommunications technology, we have achieved the creation of an environment in which smartphones have become a commodity, and convenient and useful mobile applications can be used anytime and anywhere — coinciding with this, the volume of data traffic is increasing rapidly. Furthermore, in this era of social innovation in which nearly everything is connected to the internet, and in which big data is being utilized in diverse fields such as healthcare, medicine, education, transportation, and the environment, the question of how to build information and communication systems that are stable and ready to connect is a universal challenge for society. For ourselves to be able to contribute to finding the solutions to such challenges while serving as a true partner to everyone, Anritsu has envisaged the company’s form in the year 2020 through its “2020 VISION”, under which it has set forth its goals to be a global market leader and to create new business through emerging business. We will strive to achieve these targets under the slogan of “envision : ensure,” our brand statement, which expresses our dedication to sharing our dream and vision with our customers and creating tangible results through innovation. The Anritsu Group is pursuing its corporate mission of CSR management by upholding four CSR goals centered on resolving social issues through the company’s core business. Seeing our 120th anniversary as a turning point, the Anritsu Group will make a united effort to fulfill our promise of “envision : ensure” and contribute to creating a safe, secure and comfortable society. Anritsu CSR REPORT 2015 04 Company Profile Company Profile Anritsu Group Profile Company Profile Headquar ters address 5-1-1 Onna, Atsugi-shi, Kanagawa, Japan No. of shareholders 24,232*1 Company founded 1895 No. of employees 3,926 (consolidated)*1 Capital 19,052 million yen*1 789 (non-consolidated) Net sales 98,839 million yen*2 No. of suppliers and partners 666*1 *1 As of March 31, 2015 *2 Year ended March 2015 ▶Net sales ▶Consolidated operating income / ▶営業利益ratio/ of 売上高営業利益率 operating income to net sales Consolidated operating income(Million yen) ▶売上高 ▶Net sales Consolidated ratio of operating income to net sales(％) （Million yen） （%） （Million yen） 16.6 18,000 18 120,000 15.0 101,853 98,839 16,000 13.9 16 93,622 94,685 100,000 14,000 14 77,853 12,000 11.0 12 80,000 9.0 10,000 10 60,000 8,000 8 40,000 6,000 6 6,994 14,000 15,714 14,123 10,882 4,000 4 20,000 2,000 2 0 0 0 2011/3 2012/3＊ 2013/3 2014/3 2015/3 2011/3 2012/3＊ 2013/3 2014/3 2015/3 * IFRS applied from the year ended March 2012. * IFRS applied from the year ended March 2012. ▶Consolidated ▶市場別売上高 ▶Consolidated net sales by by net sales market market ▶Number ▶社員数 （アンリツグループ）of employees ▶Number of employees (Anritsu Group)(Anritsu Group) （Million yen） (Number) 120,000 4,000 3,880 3,926 101,853 98,839 3,681 3,771 93,622 94,685 3,614 456 Asia and 100,000 3,500 others 77,853 Asia and 80,000 others 444 EMEA*1 3,000 60,000 EMEA*1 814 Americas*2 2,500 40,000 Americas*2 20,000 2,000 2,212 Japan Japan 0 0 2011/3 2012/3 2013/3 2014/3 2015/3 2011/3 2012/3 2013/3 2014/3 2015/3 *1 Europe, the Middle East and Africa *2 The United States, Canada, Mexico and Brazil ▶R&D Expenses ▶Capital Expenditures ▶利益配分（財務情報）研究開発費 ▶R&D Expenses ▶利益配分（財務情報）設備投資 ▶Capital Expenditures R&D Expenses(Million yen) （％) As % of Revenue Capital Expenditures(Million yen) （Million yen） (%) （Million yen） 16,000 20.0 10,000 9,612 13.5 12.3 8,000 12,000 10.9 15.0 12.0 10.5 6,000 5,355 8,000 10.0 4,562 4,000 3,200 9.380 9.842 10.323 12.488 13.366 4,000 5.0 2,000 1,549 0 0.0 0 2011/3 2012/3 2013/3 2014/3 2015/3 2011/3 2012/3 2013/3 2014/3 2015/3 Anritsu CSR REPORT 2015 05 Company Profile Business Outline The Anritsu Group business is woven into everyday life. Anritsu provides solutions for a safe and secure society Connecting, monitoring and detecting… Anritsu supports everyday life and business in a variety of areas, including information communication, food processing, pharmaceuticals and image monitoring for a safer, more secure and comfortable society. Bringing greater convenience and comfort to people’s lives ー Measurement solutions for mobile broadband services ー Communication Medical Services/Welfare Automobile Connect and expand Remote examination and diagnosis Safety Drive Making your life safe ー Various solutions for everyday life in food safety, disaster monitoring and ophthalmic examinations ー Contaminant inspection Remote monitoring Medical equipment Light source for Detecting contaminants Monitoring dam water levels ophthalmic equipment Supporting infrastructures for everyday life ー Measurement solutions for secure broadband networks ー Mobile phone base stations Optical fiber Communication networks Checking base station Locating optical fiber line Network monitoring and service areas breakage quality assurance Anritsu CSR REPORT 2015 06 Company Profile Test and Measurement Anritsu provides test and measurement solutions encompassing all areas of wireline and wireless telecommunications. These include mobile devices such as smartphones and tablets, global network infrastructure such as optical communications networks and wireless base stations, and telecom-use electronic components embedded in various electronic devices, used everywhere from R&D and manufacturing to construction and maintenance in each field as they serve as the backbone of comfortable, high-quality telecommunications services. ● Anritsu at Work in Diverse Settings Core Network Cloud Computing/ Big Data Metro Network Data centers Quality assurance for ultra-high speed network equipment (10/100/400 Gbps) FTTH/FTTx Monitoring network quality (for carriers) Base station control systems Mobile Fronthaul/Backhaul Energy management Base stations Wireless base stations Quality assurance during construction and maintenance M2M/IoT Tablets Smartphones Automobiles Social ITC Quality assurance for electronic devices Electronic components, communications devices, car electronics, etc. Quality assurance for mobile devices & chipsets Anritsu CSR REPORT 2015 07 Company Profile ● Contribution of Anritsu as a top supplier in the mobile test and measurement field Use for Use for Use for Research and Manufacturing Network Development and Mass Construction and Production Maintenance We participated in creating the international We provide test and measurement solutions We were first in the world to develop standard for third generation (3G) mobile for conducting wireless transmission tests compact measuring instruments that realize phones, which led us to develop the world’s and simultaneous measurement of several the needs of hand carry type for network first base station simulator. We have been wireless technologies using a single unit of construction and maintenance sites. We building on the technology and customer equipment. The Solution realizes high quality contribute to the construction and trust gained through this experience in order and high productivity. expansion of mobile broadband networks to contribute to the R&D of next-generation that are spreading across the world. LTE and LTE-Advanced communication standards. ● Supporting R&D for the Most Advanced Mobile Terminals The Mobile Device Test Platform ME7834 is an all-in-one platform for conducting protocol conformance tests and carrier acceptance tests on mobile terminal supporting the FDD TD-LTE and LTE-Advanced standards. ME7834 is being used at the most advanced R&D sites as a testing system to verify that the chip sets for wireless communications developed by our customers comply with various international standards. The Mobile Device Test Platform ● Supporting the Production of Wireless Devices The Universal Wireless Test Set MT8870A is a measuring instrument that enables the efficient assessment of smartphones, tablet devices and IoT communications modules that support LTE and other cellular communications standards and diverse interfaces, including wireless LAN and Bluetooth. We provide test and measurement solutions for conducting wireless The Universal Wireless Test Set transmission tests and simultaneous measurement of several wireless technologies such as LTE, wireless LAN and Bluetooth using a single unit of equipment during the manufacturing and inspection processes of customer production lines in order to help enhance the quality and efficiency of production. ● Supporting the Construction and Maintenance of Network Infrastructure The Spectrum Master MS2720T is a handheld measuring instrument that can be easily carried to mountainous regions, inside buildings and underground. The MS2720T helps sustain the advancement of The Spectrum Master networks by offering its best performance in the rapid construction and maintenance of wireless base stations that cover the world. Anritsu CSR REPORT 2015 08 Company Profile Industrial Solution Business We serve the food product, pharmaceutical and cosmetics industries by providing production control and quality assurance systems such as X-ray inspection systems and metal detectors for identifying contaminants in products, and checkweighers for high-speed, high-accuracy measurement of product weight. ● X-ray Inspection Systems X-ray inspection can check through an object and also allows the system user to identify shape defects and quantity shortages. With the XR75, we were able to extend the life cycle of the sensor, thus reducing the costs of parts replacement and installation. We are contributing to enhancing quality in X-ray Inspection Systems areas where inspection had not been previously conducted. XR75series ● Metal Detectors Our instruments can detect even minute units of metallic contaminants such as iron, stainless steel and aluminum. The M5 series metal detectors are easy to operate and offer solid operational stability. Metal Detectors ● Quality Management and Control Systems M5series The QuiCCA system manages and controls the entire production line to provide total management of production status and quality. It also supports to assure traceability by recording various production data such as X-ray images. QuiCCA O t he r B u sine s s e s Information and Communications We provide remote monitoring systems that contribute to the prevention of traffic and river disasters to central government agencies, such as the Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism and local governments. We also provide bandwidth controllers that ensure high quality for IP networks for private sector clients such as financial institutions. ● Bandwidth Controllers The PureFlow® series of dedicated bandwidth controllers are for telecommunications networks in a time of growing demand for higher speeds and capacity. They provide unrestricted control over bandwidths PureFlow®series by company, location or application, to guarantee line capacity and communication speeds for users of network services. Devices and Other Businesses We provide electrical and telecommunications equipment manufacturers with fiber optical and ultra-high-speed devices used in communication infrastructure. Optical Device Anritsu CSR REPORT 2015 09 Company Profile Global Network Anritsu’s test and measurement business serves customers around the world by providing solutions through a network in 21 countries, including 8 R&D bases and manufacturing bases. We also maintain 16 service centers in 12 countries to offer a variety of services to ensure our international customers can reliably use our products. Anritsu U.S. Holding, Inc. (U.S.A.) Holding company for overseas subsidiaries Anritsu EMEA Ltd. (U.K.) Anritsu Company (U.S.A.) Regional headquarters of T&M R&D and manufacture of T&M instruments instrument sales in EMEA Regional headquarters of T&M instrument sales in the Americas Anritsu A/S (Denmark) ▶Net Sales by Market R&D, manufacture and sales of T&M instruments Asian and other Japan 31.8% 27.4 % EMEA*2 Americas*1 Anritsu Company Ltd. 16.1% 24.7 % (Hong Kong) Regional headquarters of T&M instrument sales in Asia *1 United States, Canada, Mexico and Brazil *2 Europe, Middle East and Africa R&D and Manufacturing Bases for T&M Instruments R&D and Manufacturing Bases for Industrial Automation Sales bases for T&M Instruments Sales bases for Industrial Automation (overseas subsidiaries) (overseas subsidiaries and branch offices) ▶Group Companies in Japan Japan Main Business Anritsu Infivis Co., Ltd. Development, manufacture, sales, repair, maintenance and other services for industrial machinery Tohoku Anritsu Co., Ltd. Manufacture of measuring instruments and information and telecommunications equipment Anritsu Customer Support Co., Ltd. Calibration, repair, maintenance and EMC / HALT testing of measuring instruments Anritsu Engineering Co., Ltd. Development of software and hardware Anritsu Networks Co., Ltd. Development, sales, system design, maintenance and services of information and telecommunications products Anritsu Devices Co., Ltd. Development, manufacture and sales of optical devices Anritsu Kousan Co., Ltd. Resale and recycling of measuring instruments, design services and production of documents Anritsu Real Estate Co., Ltd. Real estate leasing Anritsu Pro Associe Co., Ltd. Operation of shared service center for accounting, financial affairs, payroll calculation and benefits AT Techmac Co., Ltd. Manufacture and sales of metal parts and unit assembly articles ▶Group Companies outside Japan U.S.A EMEA Asia and others Anritsu U.S. Holding, Inc.(U.S.A.) Anritsu EMEA Ltd.(U.K.) Anritsu Company Ltd.(China) Anritsu Company(U.S.A.) Anritsu Ltd.(U.K.) Anritsu Electronics (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. (China) Anritsu Instruments Company (U.S.A.) Anritsu GmbH(Germany) Anritsu (China) Co., Ltd. Anritsu Electronics Ltd.(Canada) Anritsu S.A. (France) Anritsu Company, Inc.(Taiwan) Anritsu Eletronica Ltda.(Brazil) Anritsu S.r.l.(Italy) Anritsu Corporation, Ltd.(Korea) Anritsu Company S.A. de C.V.(Mexico) Anritsu AB(Sweden) Anritsu Pte. Ltd. (Singapore) Anritsu Industrial Solutions U.S.A. Inc.(U.S.A.) Anritsu A/S(Denmark) Anritsu India Private Ltd. (India) Anritsu Solutions S.r.l. (Italy) Anritsu Pty. Ltd.(Australia) Anritsu Solutions S.R.L. (Romania) Anritsu Industrial Solutions (Shanghai) Co., Ltd.(China) Anritsu Solutions SK.s.r.o. （Slovakia） Anritsu Industrial Systems (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. (China) Anritsu Industrial Solutions Europe Ltd.(U.K.) Anritsu Industrial Solutions (Thailand) Co., Ltd.(Thailand) Anritsu CSR REPORT 2015 10 CSR at Anritsu CSR at Anritsu Basic Concept Based on its company philosophy of “Sincerity, Harmony and Enthusiasm, Anritsu implements corporate social responsibility throughout its business operations from economic, social and environmental perspectives, with due respect for laws and regulations, ethics, and social norms. Anritsu also aims to build and elevate its corporate and brand values via better communication and better relationships with stakeholders. Promoting Global CSR Activities based on Business Strategies Since fiscal 2012 Anritsu has been integrating its social responsibility into its business strategy by formulating a midterm plan for CSR that closely aligns with the Mid-term Business Plan, GLP2017. We implement our CSR activities by keeping in mind this plan, which covers the three-year period from fiscal 2015 to fiscal 2017, and the longer range 2020 VISION. Goal 1 Contributing to Build a Safe, Secure and Comfortable Society 1.Service to Customers 2020 VISION 2.Solutions for Social Issues 3.Response to Social Expectations 1To be Global Market Leader Goal 2 Goal 3 GLP2017 ・Create uniquely Anritsulike Maintaining Harmony with the Global Socio-Economy Promoting Global Environmental Protection corporate value ・Build a world-class, 4.Supply Chain Management Indicators FY2014 FY2017 5.Respect for Human Rights Sales 98.8 B Yen 120 B Yen strong, profit generating and Promotion of Diversity 11.Promotion of 6.Human Resource Development Environmental Management platform 7.Establishment of Compliance Op. Income 10.8 B Yen 17 B Yen 8.Promotion of Risk Management 2 Create new business 9.Labor Safety and Health Net Income 7.8 B Yen 13 B Yen by emerging business 10.Promotion of Social ・Demonstrate cuttingROE 10.2% 14% Contribution Activities Goal 4 ACE* 2.4 B Yen 8 B Yen edge technology in new Promoting Communications business field 12.Communication with Stakeholders *ACE(Anritsu Capital-cost Evaluation)：Operating income after tax-Capital Cost CSR Goals of Anritsu For Achieving Four Goals To identify the midto long-term goals of our activities, Anritsu set four CSR goals in fiscal 2006 toward realizing an ideal future. We believe that Anritsu’s ideal, long-term future can be realized by sharing these four goals with our stakeholders and responsibly pursuing GLP2017 and the 2020 VISION. Since the goals were formulated, we have revised important issues and objectives as needed to take into consideration the changing business environment and social expectations. Moreover, we have sought to enhance our actions for achieving continuous growth with sustainable profits for society and the Anritsu Group and to disclose information broadly, including the status of our progress. Anritsu CSR REPORT 2015 11 CSR at Anritsu Anritsu’s Stakeholders and Four Goals The Anritsu Group’s business is founded on relationships of trust with stakeholders. We believe in the importance of forging even stronger relationships with stakeholders through effective communication. We are working to create a corporate culture in which each business office, division, individual officer and employee recognizes the needs of society and stakeholders and takes those needs into account on a day-to-day basis as they do their jobs. With Customers With NGOs With National and NPOs and Local Governments Goal 1 Contributing to Build a Safe, Secure, and Comfortable Society With With Suppliers Shareholders and Partners Goal 2 Goal 3 and Investors Maintaining Harmony Promoting Global with the Global Environmental Socio-Economy Protection Goal 4 For the Global Promoting Communications With Environment Employees and Nature Conservation 地域社会 With Local Communities との対話 Goal 1 Goal 3 Contributing to the Build of a Safe, Promoting Global Environmental Protection Secure and Comfortable Society Adhering to its environmental principles, Anritsu has fully Anritsu contributes through Original & High Level established global environmental management in which it The goal for technologies to improve customers’ safety and The goal for addresses climate change, creates a recycling-oriented society Anritsu security. Anritsu and prevents pollution throughout the value chain. Every employee listens to the voice of customers Every employee has heightened their Eco-Mind and, on The goal for and provides products and rapid support services The goal for their own initiative, pursues environmental activities that employees with a quality that surpasses market expectations. employees are closely related to their operations. Appreciation Anritsu promotes global environmental management Appreciation Anritsu gains a solid reputation for its technologies and is publically recognized as a company that actively by society and earns trust in its brand. by society contributes to protecting the global environment. Goal 2 Goal 4 Maintaining Harmony with the Global SocioPromoting Communications Economy Anritsu fulfills its social responsibilities throughout the Anritsu has forged a partnership with The goal for supply chain by conducting business activities that are The goal for stakeholders by actively disclosing information Anritsu in harmony with the cultures and characteristics of each Anritsu and seeking dialogue throughout its business region in its global development. activities. Every employee enthusiastically engages in work and achieves Every employee listens to the expectations The goal for The goal for personal growth amid diverse attributes, cultures and values of stakeholders, actively seeks to establish employees with an awareness of compliance and respect for human rights. employees communication and cultivates mutual understanding. Anritsu has established a relationship of trust with the Anritsu communicates an accurate image of Appreciation regional community and society by undertaking social Appreciation itself to stakeholders and has earned their by society contribution activities that are rooted in the region. by society recognition and trust. Anritsu CSR REPORT 2015 12 CSR at Anritsu Materiality Method and Result of Materiality Assessment In 2008, Anritsu conducted a • Response to Social Expectations • Human Resource Development materiality assessment based on • Laber Safty and Health discussions conducted with 30 Particularly Important Themes • Service to Customers key persons inside the Group on • Resolving Social Issues 142 items of proper corporate Effectively • Establishment of Compliance Materiality for Stakeholders addressed Most • Promotion of Risk Management behavior expected by society. through important • Respect for Human Rights and Of these 142 items, 12 items management Promotion of Diversity • Promotion of Environmental plotted within the domains Management • Communication with Stakeholders marked in red were identified Effectively as themes with particular addressed importance for the Anritsu through communication Group and were designated as • Promotion of Social Contribution Activities our core material issues. • Supply Chain Management Materiality for Anritsu With regard to social expectations (materiality for stakeholders), we conduct an annual review by consulting CSR guidelines; results of surveys conducted by research companies, media organizations and governmental bodies for the purpose of evaluating CSR activities; and the CSR Procurement Surveys we give to our corporate customers. The review is undertaken by the CSR Promotion Sub-Committee by seniormanagers, a cross-sectional organization comprising internal divisions related to CSR, and the results are reflected in the reviews of annual plans and mid-term plans by each division. ▶Selected Key CSR Issues (GRI-G4 aspects) Category Economy Environmental Social Labor Practices and Product Sub-Category Human Rights Society Decent Work Responsibility -Economic -Energy -Training and -Non-discrimination -Anti-corruption -Customer Health Performance -Water Education -Child Labor -Anti-competitive and Safety -Market Presence -Diversity and Equal -Forced or Behavior -Product and Service -Emissions -Procurement Opportunity Compulsory Labor -Compliance Labeling Practices -Products and -Supplier Assessment -Supplier Human -Compliance Services for Labor Practices Rights Assessment Aspect -Compliance -Supplier Environmental Assessment These aspects were also discussed with the experts who participated in the stakeholder dialogue, and we have reconfirmed our understanding that they indeed represent the key CSR issues for Anritsu. Anritsu CSR REPORT 2015 13 CSR at Anritsu CSR Promotion System The CSR Promotion Committee set up in November 2004 is chaired by the President so that top management can lead CSR promotion. In addition, the CSR Promotion Center was organized as a dedicated department to encourage unified activities across a broad array of departments. The center is now called the CSR Promotion Team, and it serves under the Corporate Communication Department as the secretariat of the CSR Promotion Committee and Sub-Committee to support Anritsu’s CSR activities in line with the committee’s policies. CSR cannot be fulfilled by the efforts of any single department or organization. The cooperation of all departments of Anritsu and Group companies is essential for success. With this in mind, and to ensure effectiveness, Anritsu Corporation's departments in charge of individual CSR fields, including customer satisfaction and quality, human rights and social contribution, lead activities through cross-sectional cooperation across Group companies. The CSR Promotion Team serves as the secretariat. We identify and analyze the current situation of individual areas from a CSR perspective and strive to address issues of improvement for the future of Anritsu. Anritsu Group Corporate Governance CSR and CS Promotion Local Shareholders/ Compliance/corporate ethics team CSR Promotion Committee investors communities CS activites Anritsu Corporation Information security National/ Areas of CSR Customers local goverments Quality Suppliers Anritsu Group companies Supply chain management Departments in NGO,NPO and partners Respect for human rights/ workplace environment charge of individual Environmental management CSR areas Employees The Global Environment Social contribution activities CSR Promotion and Nature IR/SRI Sub-Committee Conservation Promotion of Global CSR To promote CSR activities on a global scale and deepen communication with our stakeholders across the world, the Anritsu Group is exchanging information internally based on a regional system and annual schedule. Each year, regional staff report to the Head Office CSR and CS Promotion Team on the ten items listed at right. ● Our Global System Headquarter : Corporate Communication Department (CSR and CS Promotion team) Americas : Human Resources Division, Anritsu Company (U.S.A.) EMEA : Human Resources Division, Anritsu EMEA Ltd. (U.K.) Asia : Human Resources Division, Anritsu Company Ltd. (China) ● Action Items ・CS activities, Quality Improvement ・Information Security ・Quality Improvement ・Protecting Human Rights ・Health and Safety ・Valuing Employees ・Compliance ・Promotion of environmental management ・Supply Chain ・Conducting Social Contribution Activities ● Global Meetings The following corporate divisions hold annual global meetings more than once a year: Environment and Quality Promotion, Human Resources, Global Audit, Accounting and Control, Information System, Trade Control and Procurement Anritsu CSR REPORT 2015 14 CSR at Anritsu CSR Results for Fiscal 2014, CSR Objectives for Fiscal 2015 Unless otherwise specified, the content of objectives in this table covers operations of Anritsu Corporation and its Group Companies in Japan. Performance evaluation: ○ = fully attained; △ = attained 50% or more Performance CSR Goal Key Issues Objectives for Fiscal 2014 Results for Fiscal 2014 Objectives for Fiscal 2015 evaluation 【Anritsu Corporation】 【Anritsu Corporation】 【Anritsu Corporation】 (1)Collect stakeholder opinions toward developing a (1)Used the content of stakeholder dialogues in improvement ○ ( 1 ) Sort status and tasks regarding VOC collection. system for improvement activities. activities. △ Service to (2)Enhance the customer contact point; share the (2)Made effective use of the correspondence table for customer ( 2 ) Formulate a plan for linking with the customer database. customers response database. inquiries, improved the web-based contact point. (3)Promote global activities (3)Only collected information on the activities in each region. △ ( 3 ) Reorganize the CS promotion system. 【Anritsu Industrial Solutions Co., Ltd.】 【Anritsu Industrial Solutions Co., Ltd.】 【Anritsu Corporation】 △ Goal 1 (1)Improve content of the sales website; establish a (1)Updated product explanations for the Japanese site, • Establish a brand strategy for each business entity. Contributing system to support local subsidiaries (excluding a provided product exhibitions and website content but fell • Create an internal education program. to Build a Safe, Solutions for part of the subsidiaries). short of establishing a support system. • Disseminate the brand through commemorative programs for △ Secure, and Social Issues (2 )Update content of the recruitment information website (2)Limited to discussing content in fiscal 2014 . Will make the 120 th anniversary. Comfortable with the support of young staff members.Add content revisions in fiscal 2015 . Completed the addition of content • Establish brand management for the global website. Society for the recruitment of full-time employees; enhance the for recruitment of full-time employees. appeal of the recruiting navigation site. 【Anritsu Corporation】 【Anritsu Corporation】 【Anritsu Corporation】 (1)Continue to implement a global response to (1)Held a global meeting and shared information on our ○ Share CSR goals, organize a working group with members of Response conflict materials. response to conflict minerals. related divisions. ○ ・Risk management(BCP) to social (2 )Conduct activities including information sharing with (2)Held a global meeting with CSR contact points at overseas ・Human rights due diligence expectations the contact points of overseas business sites in business sites and confirmed the status of activities. response to social issues (and hold a global meeting). Prevent illegal transactions(extortion and bribery, etc.). 【Anritsu Corporation】 【Anritsu Corporation】 【Anritsu Corporation】 ( 1 )Collaborate with overseas regional headquarters (1)Collaborated with overseas regional headquarters on compliance. ( 1 )Conduct global compliance education. on compliance. (1)-1 Conducted web-based training on extortion and bribery for ○ -Conduct web-based training for overseas all Anritsu Group employees in the sales and marketing employees on extortion and bribery. materials divisions. Target: 1,435 employees (Japan: 871; -Share information on risks related to extortion overseas: 564) Course completed by all employees (100% and bribery and develop countermeasures. attendance) ( 1 )2 Completed diagnosis of the current status primarily ○ with regard to extortion and bribery risks based on a comparison with the compliance system required under Establishment of FPCA Guidelines and UKBA Guidance, formulated Compliance improvement plans for fiscal 2015 and beyond. ( 2 )Hold a liaison meeting on harassment with ( 2 )Held individual meetings with staff responsible for △ ( 2 )Develop a compliance program for preventing extortion and domestic Group companies. preventing harassment at Group companies in Japan, bribery. -Set up liaison meetings. identified issues at each company, designated improvement ( 3 )Collaborate with overseas regional headquarters on -Set a theme for each Group company.Provide themes for each Group company. compliance-related operations. Group company support (e.g., education). ( 4 )Collaborate with Group companies in Japan on compliancerelated operations. 1 . Meet with staff responsible at Group companies in Japan at least once a year to identify their needs. 2 . Provide training and other support based on their needs (at least 5 times a year) 【Anritsu Corporation】 【Anritsu Corporation】 【Anritsu Corporation】 (1)Strengthen management of confidential (1)Strengthen management of confidential information ○ ( 1 )Construct global information security management system information Promoted encryption of important information at each department. (2)Global security risk assessment (2)Global security risk assessment ○ ( 2 )Security education Promotion Conducted a global assessment by overseas customers in which of Risk unresolved issues on global governance were pointed out. Management (3)Security education (3)Security education ○ ( 3 )Continue internal audit on information management. (Information Conducted new employee training by sending staff fake Security) e-mails in October. (4)Maintain an internal audit on information (4)Maintain an internal audit on information management ○ ( 4 )Maintain ISMS certification. management Conducted an internal audit. Goal 2 (5)Maintain ISMS certification (5)Maintain ISMS certification Maintaining Maintained ISMS certification from an external audit Harmony with institution. 【Anritsu Corporation】 【Anritsu Corporation】 【Anritsu Corporation】 the Global Socio○ Economy (1)Implement risk management focused on the (1)Conducted session-based risk management training on the theme Define material issues for the company in accordance with nature of business (e.g.,activities to reduce of practical business risks for newly appointed executives at the the Company Philosophy and Company Policy, recognize each material risks) at each division of every Anritsu head office and Japanese subsidiaries, conducted session-based associated risk as a corporate risk for the entire company, Promotion Group company. risk management training on the theme of operational risks for rank the risks according to their potential for materializing and of Risk leaders in the procurement division. level of impact, and implement risk management according to ○ Management (2)Conduct an effective audit, based on risk (2) Conducted business audits at three Japanese locations their respective significance. (Internal analysis, at each division of every Anritsu Group and four overseas locations to assess the risks and verify Support business activities through audits based on risk Controls) company in Japan the effectiveness of internal controls at each location, analysis and launch initiatives for detecting new risks. internal control issues were presented as findings or requests to promote improvements for facilitating business activities. 【Anritsu Corporation】 【Anritsu Corporation】 【Anritsu Corporation】 (1)Strengthen the governance system. (1)-1 Conducted an audit based on the Subcontractor Act at ○ ( 1 )Formulate the CSR Procurement Plan. four Group companies Implemented corrective measures in response to the audit results. Two companies are scheduled to complete their measures in the first half of fiscal 2015 and the other two companies will complete theirs in the second half of fiscal 2015 . (1)-2Confirmed the level of understanding on the Subcontractor ○ Act during Compliance Promotion Month , created a plan to implement company-wide education by adding content on less-understood points in fiscal 2015. Supply Chain (2)Strengthen the BCP system. (2)-1 Reinforced information management of location data ( 2 )Respond to immediate risks. Management for suppliers (strengthened acquisition of information on secondary suppliers and beyond). (2)-2Continued monitoring for the next Tonankai Earthquake, began considering an emergency logistics response with logistics operators. (2)-2 Implemented a Risk Response Plan based on a review of procurement risks (formulated five Risk Response Plans). ( 3 ) Strengthen the BCP system. ( 4 ) Centralize management of contracts for Group companies in Japan. ( 5 ) Strengthen the operation of internal controls. Anritsu CSR REPORT 2015 15 CSR at Anritsu Performance CSR Goal Key Issues Objectives for Fiscal 2014 Results for Fiscal 2014 Objectives for Fiscal 2015 evaluation Respect for 【Anritsu Corporation】 【Anritsu Corporation】 【Anritsu Corporation】 Human Rights (1)Promote the recruitment of foreign nationals. (1)Hired three graduates from overseas universities. ○ ( 1 )Promote diversified hiring (foreign nationals, mid-career recruits). and Promotion (2)Start preparations for the introduction of a (2)Conducted a human resources review with responsible officers in ○ ( 2 )Establish a system for human resource development. of Diversity new human resource system. each division, discussed rotation of member education. Human (3)Formulate a global HR policy toward ( 3 )Held a global meeting, shared the global mission and ○ ( 3 )Revitalize global HR activities. Resource implementing the HR strategy in GLP2017. formulated a local HR strategy based on the mission. ( 4)Review working styles to meet the diversification of Development employees. 【Anritsu Corporation】 Anritsu Corporation Anritsu Corporation (1)Promote advancement measures related to (1)Implemented additional measures including additional ○ (1)Maintain and improve employee health working hours designation of compulsory “leave work on time” day to Goal 2 coincide with Family Week in November. ○ Maintaining Labor Safety (2)raise awareness of balancing work and (2)Formulated a plan for conducting a fact-finding survey on (2)Continue to implement PHASE I at the head office, Harmony with and Health the nursing of parents, and investigate the nursing care. formulate PHASE II (Master Plan). the Global Sociointroduction of such a program. Economy (3)Improve the BCP system for the Atsugi site. (3)No activities related to the BCP were conducted due to × (3)Establish a global BCP. construction of the Global Headquarters Building. 【Anritsu Corporation】 【Anritsu Corporation】 【Anritsu Corporation】 (1)Promote social contribution activities at each (1)Obtained the activities of the global bese and disclosed them ○ ( 1 )Promote social contribution activities at each location Promotion location outside Japan;disclose information on in CSR Report. outside Japan;disclose information on these activities. of Social these activities. ○ Contribution (2)Develop and promote the “Great East Japan (2)Providing outdoor recreation for preschool children in ( 2 )Develop and promote the “Great East Japan Earthquake Activities Earthquake Reconstruction Support Plan;” Fukushima Reconstruction Support Plan;” lunteer activities of lunteer activities of employees. employees. Waste reduction and recycling Waste reduction and recycling (1)Maintain industrial waste emissions under 58 (1)57 . 6 t ○ ( 1 )Maintain industrial waste emissions under 58 tons, the tons, the actual level for fiscal 2013 (Atsugi and actual level for fiscal 2013 (Atsugi and Hiratsuka sites). Hiratsuka sites). (2)Maintain industrial waste emissions under 9 tons, the (2)7.4t ○ ( 2 )Maintain industrial waste emissions under 9 tons, the actual level for fiscal 2013 (Tohoku site). actual level for fiscal 2013 (Tohoku site). (3)Reduce the volume of municipal waste carried to (3)37 . 7 t ○ ( 3 )Reduce the volume of municipal waste carried to a facility of the a facility of the Atsugi City government to under Atsugi City government to under 38 tons (Atsugi site). 40 tons (actual level for fiscal 2013: 42.8 tons) (Atsugi site). (4)Maintain zero emissions (Japan). (4)Recycling rate: 100 % ○ ( 4 )Maintain zero emissions (Japan). (5)Reduce the volume of landfill waste by 3.7% (5)Reduced by 0. 8 % × ( 5 )Maintain the volume of landfill waste under the actual compared to fiscal 2013 (U.S.A.). level for fiscal 2014 (U.S.A.). Energy conservation Energy conservation (1)Reduce energy consumption (in crude oil (1)Reduced by 1. 9 % ○ ( 1 )Reduce energy consumption (in crude oil equivalent) to equivalent) to 1.0% or lower compared to fiscal 1 . 0 % or lower compared to fiscal 2014 (Global Anritsu 2013 (Anritsu Group companies in Japan). Group companies ). *To be managed by correcting for disturbance ( 2 )Reduce energy consumption (in crude oil equivalent) to Goal 3 factors related to energy consumption (ambient 1 . 99 % or lower compared to fiscal 2013 (Anritsu Group Promoting Promotion of temperature, total floor area, operating time, companies in Japan). Global Environmental days worked, etc.). Fiscal 2014 will be the trial *To be managed by correcting for disturbance factors related Environmental Management period for improving the accuracy of corrective to energy consumption (ambient temperature, total floor Protection methods. × area, operating time, days worked, etc.). (2)Reduce the basic unit of energy consumption per (2)Increased by 19 % ( 3 )Reduce the basic unit of energy consumption per sale to sale to below levels in fiscal 2013 (U.S.A.). below levels(0 . 0020 kWh/s) in fiscal 2013 (U.S.A.). Eco Products (Anritsu Group companies in Japan) Reduce water consumption (1)Ratio of environmentally sound products of all (1)86 % of target products × ( 1 )Reduce water consumption to below 1 % from the fiscal products covered: 100% 2014 level (global Anritsu Group). (2)Ratio of products that can save resources by (2)86 % of target products × 10% or more of all products covered: 100% Wastewater management (3)Ratio of products that are 30% or more power (3)100 % of target products ○ ( 1 )Maintain zero excess of the voluntary management limit efficient of all products covered: 100% for inorganic wastewater (Atsugi site). Eco Products (Anritsu Group companies in Japan) ( 1 )Ratio of environmentally sound products of all products covered: 100% ( 2 )Ratio of products that can save resources by 10 % or more of all products covered: 100 % ( 3 )Ratio of products that are 30 % or more power efficient of all products covered: 100 % 【Anritsu Corporation】 【Anritsu Corporation】 【Anritsu Corporation】 (1)Share the issues presented during stakeholder (1)Conducted stakeholder dialogues, assigned tasks for each ○ ( 1 )Communication with each stakeholder will be undertaken Communications dialogues and promote communication activities division. by the related internal division and the content disclosed to Promoting with at each division. the public. ○ Communications Stakeholders (2)Improve communications with investors; (2)Increased non-financial (CSR management) information ( 2 )Publish an integrated report for communicating with investigate and promote integrated report. in the Annual Report, considered the publication of an investors, apply integrated reporting on a global basis. integrated report for the next fiscal year. *USA is represented by Anritsu Company (USA), and China is represented by Anritsu Company Ltd. (China). Anritsu CSR REPORT 2015 16 Stakeholder Dialogue Key CSR Issues for the Global Expansion of Anritsu As part of its new three-year plan, GLP2017, Anritsu has decided to pursue its goals of addressing four key CSR issues and promoting social contribution activities at locations outside Japan. We again invited two experts to participate in the dialogue for fiscal 2014 and exchange views on putting CSR initiatives to practice and ensuring global information disclosure. Changing Business Environment Surrounding Anrit su ●Taniai This marks our fourth stakeholder dialogue. In our last discussion, the experts talked about global perspective, sustainability management, relationships with NGOs and NPOs, key performance indicators (KPIs), CSR goals and materiality. Following that dialogue, we decided to pursue (1) addressing our key CSR issues and (2) promoting social contribution activities at locations outside Japan, as the CSR goals of GLP2017, our new three-year plan that covers the period through fiscal 2017. With regard to the first goal, we have designated (I) unifying our BCPs (business continuity plans), (II) human rights issues, (III) preventing corruption and (IV) disclosing information through integrated reporting as issues that require solutions based on efforts spanning our entire organization. Looking back on the three years leading up to fiscal 2014, a dramatic change has occurred in the mobile phone market, our main market. A new player arose in China while a competitor that had been prominent in the past exited the market, leading to a realignment in the industry. Meanwhile, advances in technology such as LTE-Advanced and in connectivity further broadened the scope of potential services. In the industrial solution business we have seen significant expansion in the North American markets. There is a growing need in the United States for detection of chicken bone contamination, which has created more opportunities for us to put our technology to use. The keywords “making measurements” are for both our test and measurement business and our industrial solution business. As opposed to measuring instruments that operate under common global standards, a key aspect in industrial machinery is incorporating the way people think in each region and their needs. Anritsu CSR REPORT 2015 17 Stakeholder Dialogue ●Takahashi With regard to 5G, a major public-private sector effort is underway in Japan with the aim of becoming the first nation in the world to commercialize this technology by the time it hosts the Tokyo Olympic and Paralympic Games in 2020. Part of this objective is to realize wireless communications at speeds equivalent to or faster than household fiber optic networks. In addition to achieving higher speeds, the technology is expected to play a role in the event of a large-scale earthquake by transmitting locations and vital signs over several days, even if the user is trapped under rubble. We are currently at the stage of sorting the requirements specification, which will be followed by considerations of technical solutions. ●Yamaguchi As the world becomes more and more connected via the Internet, we will, we will move beyond communication between a limited number of terminals to a network that includes practically everything. Wouldn’t this lead to an exponential rise in demand for measuring instruments and solutions? ●Takahashi As many as 1.3 billion smartphones and mobile phones are being shipped across the world every year. In an era when the Internet connects almost everything, the number of these mobile devices has risen to about 10 billion. Mobile devices are tested under various user environments based on the premise of user mobility. In contrast, the requirements for testing connectivity between vending machines, surveillance cameras, traffic lights and various types of sensors should be far simpler because they are stationary. Data collected from physical objects will be stored in servers for analysis and future use. In some cases, the information will be used to transmit instructions. We will live in a society where traffic lights operate automatically and provide alternate routes during emergencies and where disaster response robots are controlled from remote locations. This is expected to give rise to needs that differ from conventional testing, and the solutions we provide will change accordingly. Anritsu’s materiality ●Akabane Please explain how Anritsu decided on its four key CSR issues. ●Taniai We identified issues, primarily through external assessment surveys, that were not being adequately addressed. For example, for the question on whether or not we should disclose our BCP policy, we cannot answer “Yes” at the moment. We believe we will be able to meet public expectations by resolving each unaddressed task. We understand that the selection criteria for FTSE4Good, a major SRI index, will become more stringent in 2017. Our goal is to meet that criteria ●Yamaguchi Anritsu seeks to respond to topics that are of interest to global stakeholders by using external indexes as benchmarks for its initiatives and information disclosure. This stance is not self-serving and befits its status as a global enterprise. Value Chain and CSR ● Fujikake With regard to the four key CSR issues, efforts throughout the entire value Hiroyuki Fujikake chain are essential. We set up the Procurement Headquarters in April 2015 to unify Anritsu’s Senior Manager , Procurement Headquarters CSR procurement policy and thereby enhance the capability of the Anritsu Group as a whole. Anritsu Corporation Anritsu CSR REPORT 2015 18 Stakeholder Dialogue For Anritsu, suppliers are team members with whom we work together to solve problems. Once a year, we invite our suppliers from Japan and overseas to communicate Anritsu’s aspirations and basic approach of keeping our doors open in a spirit of fairness and impartiality. Our overseas procurement ratio has risen as high as 50% over the past five to six years, making it extremely important to nurture mutual understanding and relationships of trust from a risk management perspective. When we enter into business, we visit each supplier, even those located overseas, to communicate our thinking and ensure understanding. We also listen to the policies of top management. We hope to forge partnerships and work alongside companies whose top management has reliable policies that are shared throughout the company. After starting business, in principle our local staff will visit the supplier once a year. The staff will regularly monitor the corporate atmosphere and report its impressions, such as by noting that fewer employees are smiling. A BCP is one example of an initiative that is undertaken in cooperation with a supplier. Any disruption in the supply chain will prevent us from manufacturing products and continuing to do business. In our test and measurement business in Japan, and particularly with respect to suppliers from which we purchase specialized components, our databases include information on manufacturing sites as well as the logistics locations of suppliers at the first to fourth tiers. We plan to collect information on the U.S. sites of our test and measurement business and in our industrial solution business through conversations with our suppliers during fiscal 2015. ● Yamaguchi Are you aware of all the basic risks associated with your first-tier suppliers? ● Fujikake Yes. In addition to when an issue related to quality or delivery time arises, we will visit the supplier directly when an alarm has been sounded through our communication with sales staff, such as a delayed response, to get a firm grasp on the situation. At the same time, we check up on the supplier’s understanding of compliance, human rights issues and CSR procurement. ● Akabane While the Western method of conducting audits using checklists may be more efficient, a company that values communication as much as Anritsu may be able to conduct a more substantial assessment. Especially in Asia, the use of an auditing firm may give rise to collusion between the auditing firm and the subject of the audit, resulting in a report that does not reflect reality. Makiko Akabane ● Yamaguchi Anritsu asks suppliers to sign a letter of consent on its procurement standards. Director CSR Asia Japan Does that include information on international requirements such as child labor and forced labor? Commented on recent Anritsu’s CSR activities through external study sessions. ● Fujikake Anritsu publishes its five “Requests” to suppliers on its website, which include prohibitions against child labor and forced labor. We seek the understanding and approval of our suppliers on our policies, including those issues, before signing the letter. We plan to expand this initiative to suppliers of our overseas test and measurement business and our industrial solution business. We hope to have a better understanding of all our suppliers in fiscal 2015 and a PDCA cycle in place by fiscal 2017. Promoting L ocal Social Contribution Ac tivities Worldwide ● Akabane From the standpoint of promoting CSR at Anritsu’s global locations, what responsibilities are being assigned to regional staff? Anritsu CSR REPORT 2015 19 Stakeholder Dialogue ● Taniai In North America, EMEA and China, managers of the human resources divisions are also responsible for promoting CSR. For example, employees in these divisions will send us information on the social contribution activities in each region. The ideal situation would be to appoint dedicated staff to this mission who could transmit information and follow the activities in each region. We will work on that. ● Akabane Social contribution is important, particularly if you are seeking recognition in the Americas or China. While a good company acts for the benefit of the regional community in the U.S., in China offering emergency aid is important in the event of an earthquake, flood or typhoon. And a recent trend there has been observed in companies setting up foundations. These corporate foundations are expected to provide donations for the children of workers who are working away from their hometowns. In China, the income gap is wide, the land is vast and the population is large. The government has not come around to solving social problems and seems to expect companies to contribute actively. One indicator for assessing the value of a global company in each region is the length of service of its employees. Even in American societies, where switching jobs is the norm, a long length of service may indicate that the company is attracting employees with high morale, awareness and motivation. It will therefore become increasingly important to retain and secure excellent human resources. ● Fujikake Overseas companies must often bring in management from the outside since they cannot retain their own employees. In Anritsu’s case, there is an established system of promotions that creates a lively environment. ● Takahashi At Anritsu’s American subsidiary, we have a system of priority linked to length of service. While each company may be implementing different measures, they have not necessarily been viewed from the standpoint of employee satisfaction or publicized. ●Yamaguchi Japanese companies typically build up their achievements of CSR initiatives in such areas as social contribution, human resources, compliance and the environment. They also focus on Toshihiko Takahashi providing CSR training for employees, which should be developed on a global scale. Although building Anritsu Corporation Senior Vice President, CTO, up good deeds is important, this isn’t enough to gain strong recognition overseas. A typical example is Environmental and Quality Officer the limits placed on imported Japanese food products in Taiwan. While the nuclear accident is a special factor, Japanese food products are not considered safe overseas. Even though individual efforts may be solid, and they should be safe from the standpoint of a buildup method, they may not be viewed as safe from an objective standpoint, because the process lacks the global requirement of traceability. In other words, regardless of how good it may be based on a buildup method, it will not be recognized as such unless validated by an internationally accepted method. I think there are efforts related to CSR in Japan that are similar, in general. ● Taniai Not only is Anritsu expanding its businesses globally, but nearly half of its shareholders are overseas investors. We will endeavor to communicate our CSR efforts in ways that the global audience can easily understand. Addressing Information Disclosure to Meet Global Standards ● Yamaguchi When we think about building recognition overseas as a global company, the type of information we disclose becomes important. For example, overseas companies publish in their CSR reports the numbers of first-tier suppliers, suppliers audited and suppliers at which problems were found as well as details about Anritsu CSR REPORT 2015 20 Stakeholder Dialogue corrective measures. Investors and stakeholders who value non-financial factors look at companies from this perspective, so it would be a loss to any company making such efforts if they were not to disclose them fully. Japanese companies would do better to pursue transparency on a global scale as part of international communications. ● Taniai We sought to publish an integrated report as part of our information disclosure. We incorporated much of our non-financial information into our annual report for fiscal 2014 and published an integrated report in 2015. While the report is intended for investors, it combines the annual report and a digest version of the CSR report while incorporating the guidance of the International Integrated Reporting Council as much as possible. Toshisumi Taniai ● Akabane An officer responsible for CSR in Europe for a Japanese manufacturer once told me they Vice President and Director, Chief Corporate Officer, Anritsu Corporation couldn’t understand what the company was trying to say in the English version of their CSR report, so they decided to publish a local version. Simply translating the material is not enough; the report is useless unless it is composed in a way that can be understood by readers around the world. Anritsu is a company whose overseas procurement ratio exceeds 50%, and it has a high proportion of overseas investors. I’m sure that your overseas suppliers and employees at overseas locations would like to know more about the company, which makes the English version very important. ● Yamaguchi Many Japanese reports include descriptions of all the initiatives, but the English version could have a simpler structure that emphasizes key points: the risks, and why they are viewed as risks; the goals; progress being made; and the results. These topics should be expressed in simple terms. While the policies of top management should be explained in depth, individual initiatives can be presented in a format similar to a database. While this might be difficult, the ideal would be to create the English version first and then translate it into Japanese. ● Fujikake Other companies present their goals and achievements in concrete figures. As a company engaged in global business, we must also think through how we present ourselves in the report. ● Takahashi In our report for 2014, we showed how Anritsu’s businesses are addressing social issues. Progress in technologies such as 5G and IoT will not change our stance of actively seeking solutions for social problems. I think that is our qualitative message. ● Akabane How a company addresses social issues through its core business and how it communicates that are very important. You mentioned the dangers of chicken bone contamination in the Americas. Anritsu’s value lies in the fact that it can address this problem. Foreign companies clearly express the value they have created by addressing a social issue. And they will proudly declare their contribution, even if the result is more qualitative than quantitative. ● Yamaguchi There are examples of Japanese corporate reports in which the standpoint of reporting is slanted toward the company and not linked to social issues. On the other hand, one foreign company uses half of a two-page spread for social issues. For example, they explain the impact of changing Toshimune Yamaguchi demographics, how that change has affected the company’s business, and how the organization Director Caux Round Table – Japan is responding through its business. They specify the social issues behind its business and clearly Offered support for Anritsu’s materiality assessment aimed at identifying 12 communicates the role it is playing. When you take up a social issue, it’s good to describe them in terms material issues in 2007 and 2008. of objective themes, as in the global issues discussed by the World Economic Forum and the Anritsu CSR REPORT 2015 21 Stakeholder Dialogue United Nations. For example, “contributing to people’s safety and security” is a statement that often appears in Japanese corporate reports, but that alone is not enough to gain global understanding. You should be aware of what lies behind safety and security—it may be food or it could be water—and what is on the agenda for global discussion. ● Taniai Many of your points are related to topics we have been discussing in the company that have not yet been transformed into concrete action. With your valuable comments we will strive to practice CSR in a way that is unique to Anritsu and communicate our efforts to the world. Discussion Comments from Dialogue Participants Status of Anritsu’s Response Theme Fiscal 2013 Fiscal 2014 (Review of Fiscal 2014 and Future Plans) Express Anritsu’s vision as a global enterprise Seek greater recognition in the global We continued to practice our corporate philosophy of “Sincerity, from the perspective of how it will contribute community by expressing positive Harmony and Enthusiasm” at a global scale while sharing our CSR to resolving social issues premised on diverse aspects that are unique to Anritsu as a vision and goals of the mid-term business plan through global values and incorporate that vision into its Japanese company in response to values meetings with liaisons from each region. operations. that are accepted globally as rules, and actively engage in CSR issues that carry considerable risk. Present a clear policy statement that applies to each Taking a Japan-centric approach We will promote initiatives by identifying CSR liaisons at each base country while transferring authority to each region. limits the scope of activities. and confirming progress on annual activities (goals, mid-term Since worksites operate more efficiently when an Communicating the CSR policies report, results). Promotion initiative is top-down rather than bottom-up, it to overseas bases in simple terms is of Global would be a good idea to introduce CSR elements more effective for adding depth to CSR into the assessment criteria for top managers in global initiatives. each region. Grant decision-making authority to CSR liaisons and consider developing methods of self-management for meeting each region’s requirements. Create a successful globalization model In fiscal 2012 we defined our Guidelines on Prevention of Extortion and while retaining a Japanese style in deploying Bribery, CSR Procurement Guidelines and Guidelines on Conflict Minerals, and ー the Charter of Corporate Behavior and Code disseminated them across the company. In fiscal 2013 we shared each region’s of Conduct to overseas bases. mid-term reports on objectives for the year, annual reviews and plans for the next fiscal year. We plan to compile details on regional issues through global meetings. In determining materiality, consider issues Make good use of the ES survey We designated the following items as key CSR issues in the midfrom the perspective of what is necessary for results because taking action on issues term business plan GLP2017, which began in fiscal 2015. Anritsu to take the next step forward on a that stakeholders expect Anritsu to (1) Key CSR Issues: Address cross-organizational issues from among global scale. address is important. To determine the the broader social issues and seek solutions within the period of company’s response to social issues the mid-term business plan. that affect multiple divisions, consider Key CSR Issues materiality from society’s perspective. (I) Unify our BCPs (business continuity plans) Anritsu must understand its impact on human → Establish a unified BCP within the company and throughout rights issues and determine its response by the supply chain starting from the ideal and working backward. (II) Human rights issues(employees’ human rights, diversity, supply Identifying Begin with the supply chain and identify chain management) challenges through low-key activities such as → Ensure the human rights due diligence is functioning Materiality ー visiting suppliers. appropriately on a global scale Also start by identifying conflict minerals (III)Prevent corruption (prevention of extortion and bribery, as a materiality and take the opportunity supply chain management) to exchange opinions and information with (IV) Disclose information through an integrated report (financial suppliers to develop human rights initiatives data + ESG data) for the entire value chain. (2) Promote local CSR activities: Global CSR activities and information disclosure Produce a CSR report that instantly Provide information on the uniquely communicates Anritsu’s materiality and Japanese initiative of working Promote Local CSR proactively provides information. alongside suppliers to resolve their → Assign CSR liaisons at the three global bases, establish local problems. CSR activities and win high recognition from local communities. The global employee satisfaction survey can To become a global market leader, set KPIs Designated the ESG assessment benchmark of FTSE4Good as a be used as a KPI for benchmarking employee that clearly express the corporate vision, benchmark in the CSR section of GLP2017 to give concrete form engagement. such as the desired results and impact. to our goals. Also set a KPI to be published in the CSR report and Using hours spent in training for global Integrated Report for fiscal 2015. ー employee development and occupational safety as a KPI would be a good way to Setting disclose information on human resources. KPIs You need to understand your environmental impact Set KPIs that correlate with company in areas such as CO2 emissions throughout the entire goals in order to give concrete form lifecycles of your products. Consider setting a KPI to engagement and increase impact. that links operating income to CO2. Consider KPIs as gateways to better engagement and start with areas that can be quantified. Anritsu CSR REPORT 2015 22 Goal Contributing to Build a Safe , 1 Secure and Comfortable Society Service to Customers The goal for Anritsu contributes through Original & High Level technologies to improve customers’ safety and Anritsu security. The goal for Every employee listens to the voice of customers and provides products and rapid support services with employees a quality that surpasses market expectations. Appreciation Anritsu gains a solid reputation for its technologies and earns trust in its brand. by society Service to Customers Basic Concept and Policies Anritsu upholds its vision of becoming a brand that enjoys the continued trust and preference of customers in all countries and regions by providing them with satisfaction as its goal for 2020. We aspire to be a company that shares the dream of social change with customers and surpasses their expectations by delivering innovative solutions. To do this, we believe that each employee must be cordial when serving customers and closely communicate with them in order to meet their needs, while at the same time identifying their needs and challenges. We will establish win-win relationships with customers and continue proposing new value that delivers satisfaction. Customer Satisfaction (CS) Promotion Framework The Anritsu Group in Japan encourages mutual sharing of CS issues and improvement activities through the Japan CS Committee, which consists of representatives from Anritsu Group companies. To realize our 2020 VISION and accomplish our Mid-term Business Plan, we have formulated a CS Promotion Action Plan and implement improvement activities based on this plan. In fiscal 2014, toward our goal of becoming a CS company deeply trusted by customers, we listened to customers and reflected their voices in our operations. Moreover, we worked to accelerate our response and increase the user-friendliness of our many customer contact points. ▶ Customer Satisfaction (CS) Promotion Framework Company Vision Company Policy Achieve continuous growth with sustainable superior profits 1. Make energetic organization synthesizing the knowledge of all employees through innovation using all knowledge of all parties 2. Capture growth drivers through innovation 3. Be a leader in the global market Be a global market leader through innovation with a market-driven 4. Contribute to the creation of a society that is friendly to people and the Earth as a good corporate citizen and customer-centric focus “ envision：ensure” 2020VISION Sharing our dream and vision with customers and delivering tangible Become a brand that enjoys the continued trust and preference of results through innovations that exceed their expectations. customers in all countries and regions by providing them with satisfaction. corporate strategy meeting Report CSR･CS Promotion Team Business Strategy Test and Measurement (CS Objectives) Management Global Operation Industrial Solution Corporate Information and Device Business CS Committee （Fiscal 2014） SCM Division Information System Business Communication Communications Department Department Center Business Business Anritsu CSR REPORT 2015 23 Goal Contributing to Build a Safe , 1 Secure and Comfortable Society Service to Customers Global Customer Service Activities The Anritsu Group intends to forge partnerships of trust by providing solutions to customers around the world. Our test and measurement business offers customers solutions through a network of sales bases in 21 countries. We also maintain 16 service centers in 12 countries to offer a variety of services to ensure our customers can reliably use our products. Anritsu Industrial Solutions Co., Ltd. has sales bases at 4 Group companies in 4 countries and its maintenance network, including agents, now covers 54 countries. We provide reliable maintenance services to customers operating on a global level. Operations of Each Group Company ● Multifaceted Support Operations Anritsu Customer Support Co., Ltd. undertakes multifaceted operations: maintenance, including calibration and repair of measuring instruments; testing, such as EMC*; measurement technical support for responding to technical inquiries about calibrating measuring instruments; and global support, which responds to requests for repairs and parts supply from Anritsu product service centers around the world. We are planning to redesign our web-based services to further enhance our overall service. In addition, we are striving to improve our service by asking customers to write down their requests for each assessment criterion and then taking action to respond promptly. * Electromagnetic Compatibility ▶Customer Satisfaction Levels for Calibration and Repair Services (Baseline: Fiscal 2008 ) ▶校正・修理サービスのお客さま満足度の推移 (2008 年度を基準 ) Collection and delivery Accuracy of operations Price Overall Response of contact point Delivery time Report of operations (%) 130 121.1 120 113.0 110 109.3 105.7 105.1 100 104.4 102.6 Supplying maintenance parts to overseas sites 90 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014（Fiscal year） Anritsu CSR REPORT 2015 24 Goal Contributing to Build a Safe , 1 Secure and Comfortable Society Service to Customers ●Providing High-Quality Maintenance Services Anritsu Infivis Co., Ltd., which provides inspection systems to the food and pharmaceuticals industries, operates a customer support center that is available 24 hours a day, 365 days a year, allowing for customers to consult experienced maintenance engineers for solutions to problems. In fiscal 2014, we began full-scale operation of a new IT maintenance support system for customer relationship management. We integrated the IT systems used to manage the maintenance of customer information by maintenance engineers at the customer support center and at the service station to solve customer problems more quickly. In fiscal 2015, we will share and utilize the maintenance information stored by the IT Maintenance Support System and for constructing an IT maintenance mechanism, unrestricted by time or space, to provide high-quality maintenance services and product development as well as improvements that satisfy customers. The customer support center is available yearround. ●Providing Support across the Product Life Cycle Anritsu Networks Co., Ltd., which provides telecommunications systems that sustain the stability of communications infrastructure, sought to raise the quality of its customer support further in fiscal 2014 by setting up a dedicated toll-free number and mailing address at its customer support center, thus establishing a system for more quickly responding to inquiries. In fiscal 2015, in addition to responding to inquiries, we will promote seamless customer support across the entire product life cycle by actively Regular meeting on maintenance training for corporate partners providing our accumulated know-how, encompassing product installation to general maintenance, and make it available in the form of FAQs on the website while also organizing maintenance and design training for corporate partners. ●Using Customer Feedback to Enhance Our Service Anritsu Engineering Co., Ltd. provides customers with test and measurement solutions. In our quest to satisfy all our customers, we set goals as part of our AE 2020 VISION, which is shared with every employee. To become a true global player that can directly contribute to customers’ activities worldwide, all of our employees take action in line with their individual goals for 2020. In addition, we are taking on the challenge of contributing to greater safety, security and comfort for society by connecting the thoughts and actions of each employee toward developing our technological capabilities and improving our products and services. As a first step in fiscal 2015, every employee participated in designing a reliable roadmap to 2020. While raising our technological capabilities, we will also reinforce our ability to offer proposals in order to provide optimal service. Anritsu CSR REPORT 2015 25 Goal Contributing to Build a Safe , 1 Secure and Comfortable Society Service to Customers ●Initiatives in North America Anritsu Company (US) has established a Voice of the Customer Program which is incorporated into Anritsu’s total Customer Experience Management. This program was designed to manage the customer experience through listening to feedback, analyzing data, understanding root cause and providing continuous improvement through corrective actions. The Voice of the Customer Program ensures Anritsu is engaging with the customer from pre-sales to post-sales and beyond. Keeping the customer as our primary focus throughout the customer journey. Moreover, we conduct an annual survey to gather customer feedback, the results of which are used to enhance customer satisfaction. ＊Customer experience management: A management focus on the experiences and feelings of customers with the aim of determining added value and supported by customer contact points. ▶Level of Satisfaction for Fiscal 2014 (U.S.A.) Not Sure 0% Very Dissatisfied 1% Very Satisfied Dissatisfied 1% 61 % Neutral 3% Satisfied 34 % ※ S5-level assessment from “very satisfied” to “very dissatisfied“ ▶ Overall Customer Satisfaction trend ▶全体の満足度の推移 Anritsu Company（アメリカ） 500 444 454 425 424 420 426 424 432 435 404 400 378 300 ※ Scored at five levels from “very satisfied” to “very unsatisfied” 0 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014（Year） Score weighted 5 = very satisfied through to 1 = very dissatisfied Employee Training We conduct CS training in Japan to deepen CS awareness among employees. We continue to implement the training program for new managers, launched in fiscal 2011, with the goal of having all new managers attend every year. Our curriculum integrates training content for newly appointed managers and for staff in charge to ensure that CS awareness is shared within the same division. In fiscal 2014, the CS goals set by newly appointed managers in the course of divisional training were scrutinized within the respective divisions and shared Received a commemorative flag of appreciation with other managers to implement improvements. from a customer in China for emergency overnight response In addition, we recognize employees for their contributions to enhancing CS with the CSR Award. The purpose of this program is to recognize employee contributions that go beyond customer service, including efforts to improve the environment, society and our brand. Many employees have earned this reward. Anritsu CSR REPORT 2015 26 Goal Contributing to Build a Safe , 1 Secure and Comfortable Society Service to Customers Quality Management Anritsu Corporation has established quality policies and action guidelines under its corporate philosophy, “Contribute to the development of a safe, secure and prosperous global society by offering Original & High Level products and services with sincerity, harmony, and enthusiasm,” and firmly implement them in order to provide products and services that satisfy customers and society. Quality Policy We work with sincerity, harmony, and enthusiasm to create products that satisfy customers and society. Quality Policy Action Guidelines •Eliminate product defects through dedicated attention to detail •Take the entire process into consideration by maintaining the policy of “your next process is the customer” •Proactively suggest improvement ●Promoting the Quality Management System Anritsu has been certified under ISO 9001 international quality management standards for quality assurance since 1993 and has developed a consistent global framework, from product design and development to production, services and maintenance. In our Japanese operations, we have sought to integrate ISO 9001 certifications separately obtained by each Group company. This has been done to support continuous improvements by effectively implementing PDCA cycles under a unified quality management system. The following list summarizes Anritsu Group companies around the world that have obtained ISO 9001 certification. The certification has been obtained for all organizations engaged in product realization processes. Of the total number of Anritsu employees in our global operations, about 60% of them are covered by the quality management system. ▶ Companies with ISO 90 01 Certification Japan Anritsu Corporation Major Group Companies in Japan Anritsu Infivis Co., Ltd. Tohoku Anritsu Co., Ltd Anritsu Customer Support Co., Ltd. Anritsu Engineering Co., Ltd. Anritsu Networks Co., Ltd. Anritsu Devices Co., Ltd. AT Techmac Co., Ltd Group Companies outside Japan U.S.A Anritsu Company （U.S.A.） Anritsu Eletronica Ltda. （Brazil） Anritsu Electronics Ltd. （Canada） EMEA Anritsu EMEA Ltd. （U.K.） Anritsu Ltd.（U.K.） Anritsu GmbH（Germany） Anritsu S.A.（France） Anritsu S.r.l.（Italy） Anritsu Solutions S.r.l.（Italy） Anritsu A/S（Denmark） Anritsu AB（Sweden） Anritsu Solutions S.R.L.（Romania） Asia and others （China） Anritsu Electronics (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. Anritsu Company, Inc. （Taiwan） Anritsu Corporation, Ltd. （Korea） Anritsu Pte. Ltd.（Singapore） Anritsu India Private Ltd. (India) Anritsu Industrial Solutions (Thailand) Co., Ltd.（Thailand） Anritsu Pty. Ltd.（Australia） Anritsu CSR REPORT 2015 27 Goal Contributing to Build a Safe , 1 Secure and Comfortable Society Resolving Social Issues Solutions for Social Issues Basic Concept Anritsu seeks to share its future vision with customers and create value that is uniquely Anritsu toward its goal of addressing social issues in partnership with customers. Making it easy to log onto networks with smartphones and tablets Supporting fire department, ambulance, and disaster relief functions Measuring public broadcasts Monitoring transmissions at event venues Maintaining the safety of automated driving Supporting food safety Measuring and linking optical fiber Beyond Tomorrow’s Communications: Contributing to Realizing Advanced Communication Services Required by Society As smartphones and tablets become increasingly user-friendly and wearable devices move into the spotlight, mobile broadband services using cutting-edge communication technologies such as LTE and LTE-Advanced are being integrated into cloud services with ultra-high speed data transmission technologies, and this is ushering in a new era of innovation in telecommunications systems. Mutual connectivity between all things has led to social innovations in diverse areas, including medicine, the environment and education. It is also driving a dramatic increase in data traffic, which is projected to surge as high as eleven times the current volume by 2018, making efficient network construction a new social issue. Over the years, Anritsu has been responding to turbulent advances in communications technology by developing pioneering test and measurement technologies. We stand resolved to continue meeting the network needs of society and customers as a pioneering and reliable test and measurement company that is capable of addressing both wired and wireless communication. And we will strive toward the creation of a sustainable society that offers connectivity anytime, anywhere, in a safe, secure and comfortable manner. Anritsu CSR REPORT 2015 28 Goal Contributing to Build a Safe , 1 Secure and Comfortable Society Resolving Social Issues ● Successful Data Communication with Three-Carrier Aggregation Modem for LTE-Advanced Carrier aggregation is the key technology of LTE-Advanced, in which multiple frequencies are combined to realize high-speed communication. Anritsu participated in a joint verification using the carrier aggregation modem under development by Qualcomm Technologies, Inc. as well as Anritsu’s MD8430A base station simulator. As a result, we became the first in the industry to successfully transmit data via carrier aggregation of three frequencies. ●Contributing to the Early Start of the Certification ▶Certification Process for LTE/LTE-Advanced Process for TD-LTE-Advanced Modems 3GPP*2 formulates international standards Anritsu was the first to obtain GCF*1 certification for more than 80% of the GCF/PTCRB formulates measurement standards test cases (testing criteria) used to establish whether carrier aggregation functions of LTE-Advanced modems based on the TDD method (TD-LTEMeasuring instrument manufacturers develop test cases Advanced) conform with standards. GCF certification is a requirement GCF/PTCRB certifies test cases for commercializing these modems. It also certifies test cases, and as a precondition for seeking certification the modems must first be tested using Device manufacturers conduct verification using certified test cases test cases that have obtained GCF certification for at least 80% of its testing GCF/PTCRB reviews results of verification and provides certification criteria. Anritsu is contributing to the early commercialization of TD-LTE-Advanced Commercialization of LTE/LTE-Advanced devices modems by becoming the first in the industry to meet the certification *2 Third Generation Partnership Project: An organization requirements for test cases. that formulates international standards for mobile phone systems. *1 Global Certification Forum: An organization that sets operational standards for networks and conformance testing standards for mobile phones. ●Contributing to the Practical Application of 100G/400Gbps Networks The dissemination of LTE and LTE-Advanced has led to a rapid increase of Internet access from mobile devices. Base station facilities are connected to metro core networks, and these networks are increasingly introducing 100Gbps services to handle the massive flow of mobile data traffic from the base stations; R&D for 400Gbps networks is currently underway. Anritsu developed the Network Master Flex MT1100A as a measuring instrument Network Master Flex capable of evaluating communication networks for speeds up to 400Gbps, thus supporting the practical application of ultra-high speed networks. Core network Core network Metro network Metro network Access network Submarine network Access network LAN network LAN network Anritsu CSR REPORT 2015 29 Goal Contributing to Build a Safe , 1 Secure and Comfortable Society Resolving Social Issues Contributing to Food Safety and Security Every year, diets are becoming increasingly rich and varied, and many of us have plenty of opportunities to taste a broad range of food products. Meanwhile, in the wake of a series of food product recalls and contamination incidents in Japan, the nation’s food industry has set stringent targets for quality assurance. Anritsu strives to provide solutions to customers who are concerned about these issues by applying technologies and on-site know-how gained through many years of experience. Our XR75 X-ray inspection system is a highly versatile instrument that is not only capable of detecting contaminants but also of identifying product shape defects, inspecting packaging integrity, checking for missing products, and determining quantity. By significantly enhancing the performance of the detection area, we have tripled the life of the X-ray generator and X-ray sensor compared to conventional models and reduced the running cost of parts replacement, making system installation more affordable. The XR75 contributes to food safety and security by meeting the stringent, complex quality inspection needs of the times. ●Shape Inspection This instrument uses X-ray images for analysis of outlines, area and mass and will detect irregularities in the shape of a product as well as broken or missing pieces. It is also capable of inspecting for missing cream in products such as bread and cookies. X-ray inspection system Contributing to “Connected” Networks Ensuring stable communications is a major issue for networks that require higher speeds and greater capacity. Instruments in our PureFlow® series have been specifically designed to enable service operators to control bandwidth freely and provide their network service users with assurances Bandwidth Controllers PureFlow® Series for line capacity and communication speeds. Operators that use highcapacity lines such as carriers and cloud operators can provide VPN environments equivalent to dedicated lines at an optimal cost to their network service users. Anritsu CSR REPORT 2015 30 Goal Contributing to Build a Safe , 1 Secure and Comfortable Society Response to social expectations Response to Social Expectations Basic Concept Anritsu gives priority to proactively responding to global social expectations through its business activities. Agree to the Global Compact Since March 2006, Anritsu has practiced the ten principles of the United Nations Global Compact, and has linked these principles with its own CSR efforts to firmly establish them throughout Group activities worldwide. Global Compact (GC) and Related Activities Anritsu's CSR activities during fiscal year 2013 relate to the ten principles of the Global Compact*. The United Nation's Global Compact Office has selected Anritsu CSR Report 2007 as one that matches their Notable COP (Communication on Progress) policies. The Ten Global Compact Principles Anritsu's Major Actions in Fiscal Year 2014 Related Pages ･The Anritsu Group Charter of Corporate Behavior, which reflects the spirit of the Global Compact, now serves as the basis of our group activities. ･We began applying the Anritsu Group Code of Conduct to our activities on a global scale. Promoting compliance, Anritsu Anritsu Group Charter of Corporate Behavior Overall Applying the ten GC principles Corp. and the Group companies made efforts to prevent violations and to establish more pleasant workplaces by (1) Anritsu Group Code of Conduct familiarizing people with Anritsu Code of Conduct; (2) promoting groupwide education, including training by organizational Establishment of Compliance levels; (3) avoiding risks on ethical matters via questionnaire survey; and (4)preventing violation of ethics rules via help-lines inside and outside the company. ･Anritsu Corp. and the Group Companies promoted activities to secure workplace safety and health. Businesses should support Labor Safety and Health Principle and respect the protection Supply Chain Management 1 of internationally proclaimed ･We included a clear statement on protecting human rights in the CSR Procurement Guidelines intended for suppliers and humanrights; and Supply Chain Management partners, collaborated with them on actions addressing the issue of conflict minerals, and requested their compliance. Human Rights ･Anritsu Corp. and the Group Company surveyed the actual status of harassment to employee by ethics questionnaire. ･We operate an external helpline to address harassment and other compliance issues. Establishment of Compliance Principle make sure that they are not 2 complicit in human rights abuses. ･Anritsu Corp. requested that its suppliers and partners not be complicit in human rights abuses. Supply Chain Management ･Responding to employee requests, and in order to improve work-life balance, Anritsu Corp. and the Group companies Businesses should uphold the Principle freedom of association and the Respect for Human Rights and continued to improve labor conditions. In Japan, we set up an internal website that can be accessed by employees to support 3 effective recognition of the right to Promotion of Diversity work-life balance. collective bargaining; Anritsu Group Charter of Corporate Principle the elimination of all forms of forced ･We are maintaining our efforts to establish the Charter of Corporate Behavior and Code of Conduct worldwide. Behavior Labor 4 and compulsory labour; ･Anritsu Corp. continues to request that its suppliers and partners not be complicit in forced labor. Anritsu Group Code of Conduct Standards Supply Chain Management Anritsu Group Charter of Corporate Principle the effective abolition of child ･We sought to establish the Charter of Corporate Behavior and Code of Conduct worldwide. Behavior 5 labour; and ･Anritsu Corp. requested that its suppliers and partners not be complicit in child labor. Anritsu Group Code of Conduct Supply Chain Management ･Anritsu Corp. and the Group companies continue to promote employment across borders. Principle the elimination of discrimination in Respect for Human Rights and 6 respect of employment and occupation. Promotion of Diversity Businesses should support a ･Anritsu Corp. and the Group companies promoted Eco-Factory and Eco-Office activities. Eco-Office and Eco-Factory Principle precautionary approach to ･Anritsu Corp. and the Group companies in Japan continued environmental accounting. 7 environmental challenges; Environmental Accounting undertake initiatives to ･Anritsu committed to Eco-Management Eco-Management and Eco-Mind Environment ･Anritsu promoted activities of Eco-Minded Employees. Principle promote greater environmental Eco-Management and Eco-Mind 8 responsibility, and; ･Anritsu continued its efforts to prevent of global warming. Eco-Office and Eco-Factory encourage the development and ･Anritsu Group in Japan promoted development of environmentally conscious products. Principle diffusion of environmentally Eco-Products Development 9 friendly technologies. ･We provided web-based training on preventing extortion and bribery for managers above the level of Businesses should work division heads at Anritsu Group companies in Japan and overseas. ･Anritsu Corp. and the Group companies in Japan circulated case study sheets on anticorruption measures in Establishment of Compliance AntiPrinciple against corruption in all its Corruption 10 forms, including extortion and an ongoing effort to educate employees. bribery. ･We disseminated the Anritsu Group Corporate Procurement Guidelines among our suppliers and partners in Supply Chain Management an effort to prevent corruption. Anritsu CSR REPORT 2015 31 Goal Maintaining Harmony 2 with the Global Socio-Economy Establishment of Compliance The goal for Anritsu conducts business in harmony with the culture and characteristics of individual communities Anritsu in its global deployment and fulfills its social responsibility throughout the supply chain. The goal for Every employee is fully aware of compliance, respects human rights, and vigorously does their work employees and achieves grow th within a framework of a diversity of attributes, cultures and values. Appreciation Anritsu builds up relationships of trust with communities and societ y through communit y-based by society social action programs. Establishment of Compliance Basic Concept By promoting sound and fair corporate behavior that addresses social concerns beyond basic adherence to ethical standards, laws and regulations, Anritsu continually advances key measures for strengthening its Ethics and Compliance Promotion System and to enhancing ethical awareness throughout the Group’s entire workforce. We believe it is important to respond to public expectations by developing a deep awareness of our corporate social responsibility, complying with laws and regulations in all aspects of our corporate activity, and acting according to social ethics. Ethics and Compliance Promotion System In Anritsu’s framework for promoting corporate ethics and compliance, the president takes the initiative and sets an example as chairman of the CSR Promotion Committee. To promote compliance effectively, we have also set up a Corporate Ethics Promotion Committee, chaired by the executive officer in charge of compliance, which oversees activities related to corporate ethics and compliance at Anritsu Group companies in Japan. President CSR Promotion Committee (Secretariat:CSR/CS Promotion Team) Executive officer Executive officers responsible in charge of compliance for each committee Corporate Ethics Anritsu Group Promotion Committee Various committees Support Cooperation companies outside • Security trade control • Information security Japan Helpline Workplace Legal Department • Fair trade promotion Support Hotline with a Helpline • Environmental management Others dedicated e-mail Industrial address, counselor Complaint box, Guidance/ Outside Lawyer Notice/ Notice/ Guidance/ consultation supervision Global Audit Department consultation supervision Helpline of Group companies Anritsu Group companies Anritsu CSR REPORT 2015 32 Goal Maintaining Harmony 2 with the Global Socio-Economy Establishment of Compliance Corporate Ethics Promotion Committee and Ongoing Improvement Activities (annual) The Anritsu Group in Japan set up a Corporate Ethics Promotion Committee consisting of representatives from individual departments related to corporate ethics and from Group companies. The committee plans, supports and implements Group compliance activities. We conduct a corporate ethics survey during CSR Promotion Month (October), and each business unit formulates an annual action plan for the next fiscal year based on the results of the survey. To ensure continuous improvement of our compliance activities, we follow a one-year cycle in which each business unit monitors the implementation of its annual plan and uses the survey to assess its effectiveness. ▶Compliance Promotion Activities ▶Constituent Departments of the Corporate Ethics Promotion Committee April Reinforcement Week Corporate Ethics Promotion Committee •Submission of confirmation letter on Anritsu Group Code of Conduct Management Information System •Lecture meeting Global Audit Department Corporate Ethics Promotion Committee Corporate Communication (Reporting on annual plan, development of Compliance Reinforcement Week plan) Implementation of the Compliance Legal Promotion Activity Program Development of Compliance Trade Control Promotion Activity Program Corporate Ethics Promotion Committee Accounting (Reviewing progress of annual plan, Corporate Ethics Promotion Committee planning Corporate Ethics Month) (Compilation/analysis of the questionnaire) Procurement Business Strategy Support Team, Global Operation Center October CSR Promotion Month Representatives from group companies •Ethics questionnaire •Lecture meeting Human Resource and Administration •Group training Development Support, Technology Management Center Compliance Promotion Activities ● CSR Reinforcement Week and CSR Promotion Month Every year during CSR Reinforcement Week in mid-April and CSR Promotion Month in October, we offer lectures by experts and conduct training and group-based learning programs organized by departments responsible for promoting corporate ethics to raise compliance awareness among employees of the Anritsu Group in Japan. During CSR Reinforcement Week, employees and temporary workers in Japan are required to submit a confirmation letter affirming their awareness and understanding of the Anritsu Group Code of Conduct. During CSR Promotion Month, we also carry out a corporate ethics survey for all employees, temporary workers and Lecture meeting with experts other staff working for the Anritsu Group in Japan. The survey targets regular employees and temporary staff of the Anritsu Group in Japan—as well as employees of partners, suppliers, and other staff—to confirm the effectiveness of compliance promotion activities and identify areas for improvement in individual organizational units. Analysis, examination and deliberation over the questionnaire results are fed back to the management of the individual organizational units to be used in drawing up future compliance promotion activity programs and other actions. ● Confirmation letters for the Code of Conduct of the Anritsu Group Divisional educational activity ● Training by organizational level ( recruits, newly promoted managers) ● Individual/specialized training by separate committee or department ● Lecture meeting with invited external speakers (once or twice a year) ● Divisional educational activities using case studies ● Lending and showing of videos or DVDs Anritsu CSR REPORT 2015 33 Goal Maintaining Harmony 2 with the Global Socio-Economy Establishment of Compliance ● Anti-Bribery Policy / Publication of Case Study Sheets Anti-Bribery Policy The preventing bribery is a serious issue throughout the world. Particularly stringent bribery laws have been enacted in the United States and the United Kingdom. These laws are not limited to incidents within the respective countries but extend to incidents that occur outside them as well. Bribery represents major compliance risks for the Anritsu Group, which conducts business on a global scale, and we are therefore working on preventive measures. While the Anritsu Group Code of Conduct already prohibits corruption and bribery, we sought to more firmly uphold this prohibition throughout the Group in Japan and overseas by establishing the Anritsu Group AntiBribery in April 2012. In January 2015, we provided thorough, web-based training for our sales, marketing and procurement staff as well as employees above the level of divisional head at Anritsu Group companies in Japan and overseas toward preventing extortion and bribery across the Anritsu Group. Case Study Sheets Every month, the Anritsu Group in Japan selects concrete cases that have actually occurred or could occur, under the two themes of daily life and business, and publishes these as Case Study Sheets that include concise advice and explanations. Sheets are posted on our intranet and as printed posters, and are used as educational tools of individual organizational units. A total of 170 cases have been published as of March 2015. ● Compliance Situation of the Antimonopoly Law and Internal Audit To confirm the conduct of fair and free sales activities, the Anritsu Group in Japan conducts internal audits of the activity status and order intake/sales process of the sales departments (including local bases) once a year. In conjunction with the internal audit, we also conduct compliance training (Act on Prohibition of Private Monopolization and Maintenance of Fair Trade; Act against Delay in Payment, etc. to Subcontractors; export controls; etc.) ● Helpline To prevent violations of ethics and laws and maintain pleasant workplace conditions, Anritsu Group companies in Japan operate the Helpline, which accepts internal reports and requests for consultation. And we provide the three outside Helplines (Lawyers, Industrial Counselors and Workplace Helpline). Lawyers are available from outside the company for employees to consult for legal advice. In addition, Legal Consultation Days (twice a month) are held to provide legal consultation on internal problems as well as any other issues affecting the lives of employees. In October 2012, we set up the Workplace Helpline separately from the internal contact point to improve accessibility by consigning the operation of contact points to a private company with no vested interests in the Anritsu Group. Consultation is provided by industrial counselors. The Workplace Helpline accepts requests for consultation outside office hours, including on holidays, and in English on designated days, giving employees better access to the service. Both the in-house Helpline and the Workplace Helpline maintain rules of confidentiality on the content of reports and the fact that a report was made, and neither the reporter nor the whistleblower will be unfairly treated in any way. Information card promoting the Workplace Helpline Anritsu CSR REPORT 2015 34 Goal Maintaining Harmony 2 with the Global Socio-Economy Establishment of Compliance In fiscal 2014 (April 2014 to March 2015), the Workplace Helpline provided five consultations; four were conducted over the phone and one via e-mail. In all five cases, however, the reporter declined to notify the company, so we are not aware of the content of the reports or of the reporters’ identities. In addition to improving the whistleblowing processes, such as the establishment of internal and external contact points for consultation, we also train consultants by organizing skill development seminars for contact point staff with a focus on role-playing to simulate one-on-one consultations. ▶Flow of the Helpline Reports and requests from employees within the Anritsu Group (confidential) Inquiry counter for Feedback Group companies Superior or colleague Helpline outside the company Helpline inside the company Internal line Emergency Workplace Helpline Complaint Inter-office e-mail Outside lawyer Private e-mail Hotline box Direct visit Cooperation Related department Legal Department Corporate Ethics Promotion Committee Exective officer in charge of compliance President *The Helpline is open to Anritsu Group employees as well as staff engaged in operations within the Anritsu Group (e.g., suppliers and business partners, and employees of cleaning contractors) and also to former Anritsu employees who have left the company within one year. ● Working with Group Companies in Japan and Overseas Anritsu has been actively developing a compliance system for the Group in Japan and overseas. The Code of Conduct was formulated and shared with the Group in Japan as a guideline for promoting compliance. Also, Group companies participate in the Corporate Ethics Promotion Committee, and we conduct compliance promotion events and related educational programs throughout the Group. With regard to overseas Group companies, while the respective laws of each country may differ from our Code of Conduct, we created the “Guidelines and Insights for All Members of the Anritsu Group,” which contains elements of the code, and distributed this document to employees as a means of sharing basic ideas and policies across the Group. At the same time, we formulated localized codes of conduct that correspond to the respective legal systems, cultures and customs of each country. ● Working with Overseas Group Companies We collaborate with overseas subsidiaries as part of our activities for promoting corporate compliance at Anritsu Group companies outside Japan. We set up an English language website for the Legal Department that can be accessed from overseas locations. The site provides case study sheets citing concrete examples of various compliance violations in the same way as our Japanese language site. We created three language versions for each sheet, one in English and two in Chinese, to facilitate their use in training activities in China. We plan to expand the content of this international site to support and collaborate in activities for promoting compliance at other overseas Group locations. Anritsu CSR REPORT 2015 35 Goal Maintaining Harmony 2 with the Global Socio-Economy Establishment of Compliance ● Export Control Anritsu’s measuring instruments are equipped with hardware and software that represent the cutting edge of technology and could be abused were they to fall into the hands of countries developing weapons of mass destruction or of Terrorist groups. Anritsu designates export control as one of its seven major risks and follows stringent standard procedures to contribute to maintaining and promoting peace and security in the international community. The Export Control Committee leads a staff organization for dealing with global trade, and we have formulated our own global regulations, including the Rules on Security Trade Control (compliance program) and rules on specific export controls. Moreover, we have an established information system for effectively conducting risk management and screening. Reflecting the high level of trust in our export control system, Anritsu has been certified under the Authorized Economic Operator (AEO) system to ensure security while facilitating international trade, and the company has been granted a Special Comprehensive License from Japan’s Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry, which also provides practical benefits in facilitating the flow of our exports. We will continue to contribute toward bolstering international security through stringent controls while promptly responding to customer requests by continuously seeking to improve and strengthen our initiatives. Mark of the AEO system administered by customs（Authorized Economic Operator） Balancing Stringency and Efficiency in Export Control We must achieve a balance between thorough trade compliance and efficient export control operations in order to contribute to the safety and security of the global community and more quickly and reliably deliver products that society and customers need. In an effort to attain this balance, we have been managing risks by categorizing them according to the country of the counterparty and the product. We seek to accelerate our procedures for low-risk transactions by using IT systems, while high-risk transactions are subject to a detailed investigation as well as a special screening by the chief officer. We execute these operations under international trade control rules, enhance effectiveness by conducting audits and convene an annual global meeting to share and resolve issues. Yutaka Saito We will strive to deepen further the trust from society and customers by Director of Trade Control continuing to focus on balancing the rigor and efficacy of our export control Department, Anritsu Corporation procedures. Anritsu CSR REPORT 2015 36 達成像 Goal Maintaining Harmony 2 with the Global Socio-Economy Promotion Labor Safetyof and RiskHealth Management Promotion of Risk Management ● Basic Concept The Anritsu Group views risks as uncertain events that affect corporate value such as organizational profit and social credibility. In other words, we do not consider risks as necessarily negative but instead as potentially positive events if managed appropriately. We recognize proper risk management as a vital management issue and have established a risk management system for the Anritsu Group as a corporate entity under basic policies concerning the development of an internal control system approved by the Board of Directors. We are focusing on initiatives for enhancing sensitivity to risks beyond management to include all employees while promoting risk management through an all-inclusive effort to maintain and expand our corporate value, fulfill our corporate social responsibility and seek sustainable development for the Group. ● Risk Management Promotion System The Anritsu Group has identified seven major risk categories: (1) business risks associated with management decision-making and execution of operations; (2) legal violations; (3) environmental preservation; (4) quality of products and services; (5) import/export management; (6) information security; and (7) disasters. We have established a management system for each risk, supervised by the chief officer responsible for each risk or the head of the relevant division, who concurrently serves as the chief administrator. The chief administrator is responsible for the committee comprising the heads of relevant divisions and chief administrators of Group companies, exercises overall control of the Group companies involved in managing the relevant risk, and provides timely reports on the risk management measures, plans, status of implementation and results to the Corporate Strategy Meeting. In addition, Anritsu’s risk management promotion divisions are responsible for setting rules and guidelines and conducting education and training to raise the level of risk management and ensure ongoing business development. Responsibility for Committees and Other Risk Categories and Related Rules Risk Management Organizations Executive officers in charge of each business division, Business risks associated with management decision making and Executive organ of each business 1 presidents of subsidiaries execution of operations division and the corporate division and executive officers in charge of operations Corporate Ethics Promotion Committee Anritsu Group Charter of Risks associated with legal Executive officer in charge of (Committee for Promoting Fair Trade 2 Corporate Behavior violations compliance in Sales Activities) Anritsu Group Code of Conduct (Committee for Promoting Fair Trade in Procurement) Risks associated with Basic Rules of Environmental Chief officer in charge of Environmental Management 3 environmental preservation Systems environmental management Committee Risks associated with Rules on Quality Management Quality Management System 4 Chief quality officer product and service quality Systems Committee Risks associated with export/ Chief officer in charge of 5 Rules on Security Trade Control Export Control Committee import management trade control Basic Rules on Information Chief officer in charge of 6 Information security risks Information Management Committee Management information management Risks associated with Basic Rules on Disasters and Chief officer in charge of 7 Disaster Prevention Headquarters disasters Emergency Response disaster prevention Anritsu CSR REPORT 2015 37 達成像 Goal Maintaining Harmony 2 with the Global Socio-Economy Promotion Labor Safety of and RiskHealth Management ● Activities in Fiscal 2014 In fiscal 2014, we responded to the results of a risk management survey conducted in fiscal 2013 at overseas subsidiaries by revising the model contract for countering the risks of extortion and bribery and offering web-based training. We also held training sessions on managing practical business risks for newly promoted managers at the head office and subsidiaries in Japan, as well as training on managing operational risks for leader-level employees in the procurement department. In addition, we Risk management training practice development project management based on a risk management approach in our development department. Enhancing Corporate Value through Internal Controls ● Basic Policy The Anritsu Group’s internal control system is intended to raise the effectiveness and efficiency of Group management, ensure the validity of financial reporting and establish legal compliance. We are continuously improving and reinforcing the system to respond to the changing business content of the Anritsu Group and growing complexity and diversity of the business environment. This has enabled us to practice sound management activities sustained by a viable internal control system and strive to enhance corporate value. ● Promotion System In the Anritsu Group, the Internal Control Committee, which deals with the validity of financial reporting, and the Corporate Ethics Promotion Committee, which oversees compliance and related committees for information management, promoting fair trade, export control and environmental management, undertake the necessary deliberations, establish and operate internal control systems by implementing cross-Group information sharing and educational programs, and conduct activities to ensure viability. Furthermore, the internal audit department of Anritsu Corporation and the Group companies, Audit & Supervisory Board Members and the Management Audit Department conduct audits as part of their responsibility to evaluate the activities of these committees and the internal control system. ● Activities in Fiscal 2014 With regard to activities related to the evaluation of internal controls conducted in fiscal 2014, and in the area of financial reporting, the internal audit department of Anritsu Corporation and Group companies evaluated the effectiveness of internal controls related to financial reporting. Appropriate improvements were implemented against potential risks identified during the evaluation process. In areas other than financial reporting, Anritsu Corporation’s internal audit division conducted operational audits to evaluate the effectiveness of internal controls related to compliance, such as information management and export controls. During the audit, emphasis was placed on verifying processes that had been revised in their control environment due to organizational reform and IT system upgrades. Anritsu CSR REPORT 2015 38 達成像 Goal Maintaining Harmony 2 with the Global Socio-Economy Promotion Labor Safetyof and RiskHealth Management Business Continuity Management (BCM) ● Basic Policy on Business Continuity Management Each Anritsu department creates a business continuity plan (BCP) to maintain smooth operations in the event of a disaster or emergency by minimizing damage and resuming full business activities as quickly as possible. *Business Continuity Plan：A plan formulated to ensure the rapid resumption of critical business functions in the event that business activities are interrupted by an emergency. ● Disaster Prevention The Anritsu Group has laid out its BCM policy in the following Basic Policy on Disaster Response. Basic Policy on Disaster Response The Anritsu Group establishes a prevention system against disasters that may significantly affect its management, places top priority on ensuring the safety of its stakeholders including employees and local communities in the event of a disaster or accident, and strives to minimize damage and promptly resume business activities in order to fulfill its social responsibility and continue to seek enduring success for the Anritsu Group. ● BCM at Manufacturing Bases The stable procurement of materials for parts production represents the very backbone of any manufacturing company’s BCP. Tohoku Anritsu Co., Ltd. and the Koriyama Business Office of Anritsu Corporation, which serve as the manufacturing base of the Anritsu Group, have formulated BCPs to respond to earthquakes and other natural disasters by identifying them as material risks. These BCPs clearly set out concrete steps for each process in the event of a disaster. Applying the lessons learned from an actual large-scale disaster, we revised the criteria for invoking the BCP in an emergency to prepare against a broader range of risks and refined our procedures for responding to each risk. Organization of Koriyama BCP Infrastructure/ Support and Maintenance Labor Safety Infrastructure Team Team and Health General Manager of Koriyama Restoration of Manufacturing R&D Team Business Manufacturing Team Office BCP by Production Management Team SCM Restoration Procurement Team Division Logistics Team of SCM Production Support Team in Head Quality Assurance Team Office In the wake of a disaster, a BCP headquarters is set up in accordance with guidelines in a manual to ensure the safety of employees, secure infrastructure and lifelines, and seek early restoration of production lines. ● Education, Training and Manual Revision Tohoku Anritsu Co., Ltd. seeks to ensure that all employees can respond effectively in the event of a disaster or emergency. We formulate an education plan every year and conduct training and drills on a regular basis. The officer in charge of BCPs also participates in these drills to determine whether or not the manual requires a review and revises it as needed. Anritsu CSR REPORT 2015 39 達成像Goal Maintaining Harmony 2 with the Global Socio-Economy Promotion Labor Safety of andRiskHealth Management ● Developing the Infrastructure for Stable Supply Seeking to disperse exposure to risks, Tohoku Anritsu Co., Ltd. opened a second plant in July 2013. Production lines have been distributed between the two plants to ensure stable supply. ● Securing the Information System For key information systems, including the Group’s mission critical systems and e-mail, we have established a structure in which data is replicated across our Osaka Data Center, Atsugi site and Koriyama site. This allows us to continue operating these systems from an alternate site, even in the event that any one site is stricken by a disaster. We are preparing our response to disasters by designating emergency procedures with a targeted time for recovery. We also conduct regular recovery drills based on projected scenarios to assess the effectiveness of our procedures and correct any problems that may arise. Japanese Overseas locations locations RAS Remite Access IIJ-VPN Internet Weekly Daily Differential copy Differential copy Standby servers Production servers Production servers Standby servers Production servers Differential copy Koriyama Site Atsugi Site Osaka Data Center ● Working with Business Partners In our effort to minimize disruptions in supplying products to customers, we have visualized our supply chain. We have created a database on the status of approximately 2,800 sites operated by our business partners to understand their standard and alternative transport routes to Anritsu, and we seek to identify and minimize any risks that may emerge in the immediate aftermath of a disaster. In addition, we request key business partners to provide information on their business partners further upstream in the supply chain. We have also developed an in-house system for exchanging information on business partners to further strengthen our ability to maintain stable supply during emergency situations. TOPICS The Global Headquarters Building with Sesmic Isolation System Our global headquarters building was completed at our Atsugi site in March 2015 under the BCP concept for maintaining the continuity of the Group’s core functions. Its steel construction comprises a low-rise building and a high-rise building, Exterior of the global headquarters building both incorporating sesmic isolation structures for enhanced safety following an earthquake and an emergency power generator capable of meeting power needs for 144 hours. The high-rise building has a concrete filled tube (CFT) structure, in which steel tubes used as posts are filled with concrete. The structure ensures anti-seismic performance with fewer, compact posts, which affords greater freedom for space design. Also, we have set aside several areas for stimulating creative communication Sesmic isolator to raise the intellectual creativity of the building. Anritsu CSR REPORT 2015 40 達成像 Goal Maintaining Harmony 2 with the Global Socio-Economy Promotion Labor Safety of and RiskHealth Management Information Security Management ● Basic Concept Anritsu is making a continuous effort to maintain and enhance information security through its information security management system. ● Management System (Information Security Management) Anritsu’s management system consists of the Information Management Committee comprising key executive officers from each business division and Group companies, the Information Security Subcommittee comprising representatives from business divisions in Japan, and the Global Security Committee, whose members include representatives of IT departments at overseas Group companies. The Information Management Committee formulates basic policies on information management for the entire Group. The Information Security Subcommittee and Global Security Committee develop annual action plans and concrete measures. The plans these high-level bodies formulate are implemented through the actions of each department. Anritsu uses this management system to oversee its annual PDCA cycle. Imformation Security Subcommittee Information Security Administration (Formulate policy for the entire Group) Corporate Ethics Promotion Committee Imformation Security Subcommitee Global Security Committee (Formulate and promote measures (Formulate and promote measures and plans for the entire Group in Japan) and plans for overseas Group companies) (Management Information System Dept.) Business Divisions in Japan Divisions at Group companies in Japan (Manage and implement measures, etc.) Internal Audit (Internal Audit Committee and Global Audit Dept.) ● Major Activities in Fiscal 2014 Risk Assessment Related to Information Security and Countermeasure Development Anritsu tracks the ever-changing nature of threats to IT systems by conducting an annual risk assessment to address changes in the risks we face. In fiscal 2014, we took action to address risks in the following two areas: ＜Conducting a Global Assessment (risks associated with changes in external and internal environments)＞ Global IT infrastructure has recently taken on a greater significance in supporting Anritsu’s overseas strategy. We manage an environment in which all our offices around the world have been networked and can be accessed from any location. However, this has also raised risks to global security. Today more companies sustain damage from being singled out in cyber-attacks. A globally-connected corporate network is subject to the risk that a single breach may escalate into a considerable accident. Companies must therefore maintain uniform security throughout the world. In fiscal 2014, we launched an initiative to extend the security assessments we have been conducting in Japan for our global operations. We will undertake activities to eliminate regional gaps by using the same check sheets worldwide. Anritsu CSR REPORT 2015 41 達成像 Goal Maintaining Harmony 2 with the Global Socio-Economy Promotion Labor Safetyof and RiskHealth Management ＜ Response to the End of Support for Windows Server 2003 (risk associated with a change in the external environment)＞ On July 15, 2015, Microsoft Corporation formally ended its support for its Windows Server 2003. As of May 2015, Anritsu was using this operating system on approximately 100 servers but has since upgraded all of its servers to Windows 2008 or higher. Promoting for Employee Education Executives and other employees of the Anritsu Group in Japan participate in web-based training every year to deepen their understanding of security. In addition, to deal with the growing threat of computer viruses attached to e-mail, we conducted training during the current fiscal year by sending fake e-mails to all employees. Those who mistakenly opened the messages were retrained to raise their awareness of emailrelated risks. Anritsu CSR REPORT 2015 42 Goal Maintaining Harmony 2 with the Global Socio-Economy Supply Chain Management Supply Chain Management Basic Concept Anritsu’s procurement operations are global in scope, reaching beyond Japan and across the world. We offer equal opportunities to every company in Japan and overseas through fair assessment practices. We strive to respond to the expectations and demands of society across the entire supply chain by developing stronger partnerships through the willing involvement of suppliers and partners in various activities, and by ensuring compliance with relevant laws and regulations, business practices and social norms as well as initiatives for preserving the local environment. Promoting CSR Procurement throughout the Group We set up the Global Procurement Operation Division in April 2015 to integrate the procurement functions that had been implemented across our Group businesses for the purpose of raising operational efficiency and cutting procurement costs, while also promoting CSR procurement at a global scale and bolstering our risk management system. We identified about 150 risks related to our procurement operations and divided these into five categories according to their impact on business and probability of occurrence in order to prioritize and consider countermeasures. For example, we are pursuing initiatives such as considering alternative routes based on the assumption that the Tonankai Earthquake in Japan will occur and testing actual routes in collaboration with logistics operators so that we can understand the related costs and issues. Looking ahead we will tackle the issue of formulating a unified CSR procurement strategy for the Group and develop an action plan for realizing that strategy. CSR Hiroyuki Fujikake procurement vitally depends on cooperating with our partners, so we hope to build even General Manager, Global Procurement Operation closer partnerships with suppliers and business partners who share Anritsu’s dreams and Division, aspirations to achieve growth together. Anritsu Corporation Global Supply Chain Committee Anritsu maintains three main development locations in the U.S., Europe and Japan. Until now, parts have been procured through an approval process using assessment criteria established at each location. Anritsu is currently establishing a globally unified set of assessment criteria approved by each location to optimize the mutual use of the supply chain. We intend to promote parts procurement through global collaboration. Mutual approval is also offered as a means for recognizing business partners that provide us with products we commonly use as Global Preferred Suppliers. We also intend to shorten time to market (TTM) for product development by sharing development roadmaps and technological issues with these suppliers. Anritsu CSR REPORT 2015 43 Goal Maintaining Harmony 2 with the Global Socio-Economy Supply Chain Management Anritsu Basic Rules of Procurement The Anritsu Group believes in the importance of moving as one with the entire supply chain, together with our business partners, in conducting procurement. With this conviction, we established our Basic Rules of Procurement in 2005 to forge partnerships anchored in mutual trust and seek the cooperation of suppliers and business partners. B a s i c Rul e s for Pr o cur e m e nt 1.Selection of suppliers and partners Anritsu always keeps the door open to new potential suppliers and partners inside and outside Japan, in a spirit of fairness and impartiality. Anritsu objectively selects suppliers and partners based on proper standards focusing on quality, price, delivery schedules and environmental measures. 2.Partnership Anritsu builds mutually beneficial relationships with all suppliers and partners through sound business practices. 3.Compliance and secrecy protection Anritsu conducts business in full compliance with relevant laws, and does not disclose information acquired through business with suppliers and partners to any third party without these suppliers’ and partners’ prior consent. 4. Activity based on ethical concepts Personnel involved in procurement keep in mind at all times the importance of performing assignments fairly, free of personal interests with suppliers and partners, while maintaining sound relationships with these parties. 5.Considerations of human rights and labor Anritsu respects human rights and promotes industrial hygiene, safety and security, and requests that suppliers and partners agree to this policy and promote these activities as part of their supply chain operations. Anritsu may reconsider relationships with suppliers and partners if their business operations are linked with human rights violations, such as the use of child labor, racial and sexual discrimination, etc. Furthermore, we will work together with our suppliers and partners regarding non-use of conflict minerals that lead to these human rights issues. 6.Environmental considerations Anritsu stipulates Green Procurement Guideline and promotes green procurement by purchasing parts and materials that have been proven less damaging to the environment. Requests To promote our Basic Rules of Procurement, the Anritsu Group communicates the following requests directly to all suppliers as it seeks their cooperation in activities undertaken throughout the entire supply chain. Re qu e s t s 1.Observance of laws and social norms Observance of relevant laws, prohibition of child labor, forced labor and cheap labor; and prohibition of discrimination and transaction with antisocial forces 2.Environmental considerations Realization of environmental measures in line with Anritsu's Green Procurement Guidelines, environmental requirements, etc. 3.Ensuring good quality, supply at fair prices and maintenance of delivery schedules 4.Preventing leakage of secret information and respect for intellectual property rights 5.Prompt response to contingencies and timely, appropriate information disclosure Anritsu CSR REPORT 2015 44 Goal Maintaining Harmony 2 with the Global Socio-Economy Supply Chain Management Formulating and Disclosing Guidelines on CSR and Green Procurement In fiscal 2010, we formulated the Anritsu Group Corporate Procurement Guidelines, which complies with the Supply-Chain CSR Deployment Guidebook published by the Japan Electronics and Information Technology Industries Association. The Corporate Procurement Guidelines are posted on our website, together with our Green Procurement Guidelines, and we hold briefings for suppliers and business partners to raise their understanding of and establish further cooperation in CSR procurement. Anritsu CSR Procurement Guideline Ⅰ Human Rights and Labor Ⅱ Occupational health and Safety Ⅲ Environment 1. Prohibit forced labor 1. Apply safety measures for equipment and 1. Control hazardous chemicals in products 2. Prohibit inhumane treatment and instruments 2. Control hazardous chemicals in manufacturing infringements of human rights 2. Promote safe activities in the workplace 3. Establish and apply an environmental management 3. Prohibit child labor 3. Promote hygiene in the workplace system 4. Prohibit discrimination 4. Apply appropriate measures for occupational 4. Minimize environmental pollution (water, soil, air) 5. Pay appropriate wages injuries and illnesses 5. Obtain environmental permits 6. Regulate working hours 5. Properly manage disasters and accidents 6. Promote resource and energy saving by reusing, 7. Respect the rights to freedom 6. Be careful about physically demanding work reducing, and recycling(3R) of association 7. Promote safe and hygiene in all company facilities 7. Promote green-house gas reduction 8. Promote health maintenance programs for 8. Promote waste reduction employees 9. Disclose environmental preservation activities Ⅳ Fair Trading Ⅴ Product Quality and Safety 1. Prohibit corruption and bribery 1. Ensure product safety 2. Prohibit abuse of a superior position 2. Establish and apply a quality management system 3. Prohibit the offering and receiving of inappropriate profit and advantag 4. Prohibit impediment to free competition Ⅵ Information Security 5. Provide accurate information on products and services 1. Secure computer networks against threats 6. Respect intellectual property 2. Prevent the leakage of personal information 7. Use appropriate export procedures 3. Prevent the leakage of confidential information of the customer and the third-party 8. Disclose appropriate company information Ⅶ Contribution to Society 9. Detect injustice promptly 10. Prohibit doing business with antisocial forces 1. Contribute to society and community URL CSR Procurement Guidelines URL Green Procurement Guidelines Requesting Letters of Consent from Business Partners and Conducting the CSR Survey Since 2011 we have been seeking the cooperation of business partners in promoting CSR procurement by requesting that they submit letters of consent. As of March 2014, we have received letters of consent from all 434 of our major business partners. Anritsu began conducting CSR Procurement Surveys to monitor CSR efforts at its business partners in fiscal 2011. We have distributed surveys to 77 major suppliers and received 66 replies, a response rate of approximately 85%. We will continue to promote CSR procurement by conducting the CSR Procurement Survey and requesting that new business partners submit letters of consent. In fiscal 2012, we set up the Direct Delivery mailboxes in the negotiation rooms of our head office and the Koriyama Business Office in an effort to promote CSR procurement based on the direct feedback from our partners and survey results. Anritsu CSR REPORT 2015 45 Goal Maintaining Harmony 2 with the Global Socio-Economy Supply Chain Management Conflict Minerals as a Human Rights Issue The Anritsu Group does not list its own shares in the United States but some of its corporate customers are U.S. listed companies. Therefore, following the 2012 adoption of the final rule of Section 1502—the conflict minerals provision of the U.S. Financial Reform Bill—Anritsu declared its support and began working with its supply chain to prevent the use of conflict minerals in Anritsu products. We also hold briefings for our business partners to prevent any oversights. We respond to customer inquiries related to this issue by requesting investigations by business partners in Japan and abroad. We also channel this information to the Conflict Minerals Working Group at our headquarters to accumulate information in a shared database. To date there has been no use of conflict minerals at Anritsu. ▶Response to Customers in Japan Anritsu Groups ③Request investigation Business Partner A ④Response Related to Procurement Division (Japan) domestic ②Request ①Request procurement Sales Division (Japan) Customer (Japan) Business Partner B investigation investigation ⑤Response ⑥Response Business Partner C Procurement Division Related to overseas (Americas, Europe) procurement Business Partner D Share Share Conflict Minerals Working Group Share (Secretariat) Accumulation/ Reference Shared Database Exhibition of Products Our Partners Make We held an exhibition at the Anritsu head office featuring products manufactured by 54 of our suppliers and partners. The exhibition acquainted development engineers at Anritsu with new products and technologies such as components for wireless communications (for example, Bluetooth, Wi-Fi, LTE-Advanced) and optical networks (40/100G), as well as general-purpose electric parts, optical parts and components Introducing new products and technologies that ensure electromagnetic compatibility (EMC). The event also included seminars featuring lecturers from our business partners, aimed at keeping participants abreast of cutting-edge technologies. Anritsu CSR REPORT 2015 46 Goal Maintaining Harmony Respect for Human Rights 2 with the Global Socio-Economy and Promotion of Diversit y Respec t for Human Rights and Promotion of Diversit y Anritsu upholds respect for human rights as one of our highest priority issues in both the Anritsu Group Charter of Corporate Behavior and Anritsu Group Code of Conduct. Given the rapid evolution of business worldwide, we believe it is important to attract a diverse workforce in terms of nationality, gender, age and views on work. This enables us to develop systems and programs that allow every individual to demonstrate their strengths based on their lifestyles, and to provide safe, secure and comfortable working conditions. Human Rights ● Basic concept and policy Anritsu participates in the United Nations Global Compact, which is intended to encourage conduct under the universal principles of human rights and labor. We establish policies and guidelines based on international rules on human rights that serve as in-house rules and strive to be aware of issues and promote initiatives at every stage of the value chain, from research and development to procurement, production, logistics and sales. To further reinforce our initiatives, we will formulate a three-year plan that complies with international rules, including the International Labor Organization’s 1998 Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work and the Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights endorsed by the U.N. Human Rights Council in 2011. In fiscal 2015, the plan’s first year, we will set up cross-divisional working groups and convene a global meeting to report and deliberate on human rights issues. In fiscal 2016, the Anritsu Group will formulate a unified policy on the human rights of its employees and on human rights initiatives throughout the supply chain. And we plan to construct a due diligence framework in fiscal 2017 for implementing human rights at a global scale. ● Management and System As a global enterprise headquartered in Japan that advocates respect for basic human rights in its constitution, the Anritsu Group complies with international standards, including the ten principles of the U.N. Global Compact. We also declare respect for human rights in the Anritsu Group Charter of Corporate Behavior and the Anritsu Group Code of Conduct and are striving to establish a corporate culture that does not tolerate discrimination. In the Charter of Corporate Behavior for guiding the Anritsu Group in the conduct of its social responsibility, we declared we will respect the human rights of all those who are connected with it, and will not permit any discriminatory practice related to race, gender and so forth or infringement of individual dignity, and will never accept child labor or forced labor. As for the Code of Conduct, which guides the daily operations of all Anritsu Group employees, it states that we will not discriminate in word or deed or engage in acts of violence or impair personal dignity, and that we will seek to deepen our understanding and take action to respect human rights through educational programs and other appropriate means. Protecting Human Rights: The Anritsu Group will respect the human rights of all those who are connected with it, and will not permit any discriminatory practice related to race, gender and so forth or infringement of individual dignity, and will never accept child labor or forced labor. ● Assessing and Monitoring Risk Initiatives for the Group Anritsu Group employees in Japan are required to submit letters of confirmation that provide assurance they understand and agree to the Code of Conduct of the Anritsu Group. We also seek to address and improve the status of human rights issues through the use of corporate ethics surveys and consultation points. For more information on these consultation points, see Compliance (pages 34 to 35). Anritsu CSR REPORT 2015 47 Goal Maintaining Harmony Respect for Human Rights 2 with the Global Socio-Economy and Promotion of Diversit y ●Initiatives for the Supply Chain Human rights and labor are upheld in Chapter 1 of our Corporate Procurement Guidelines, and we seek the understanding and cooperation of our business partners. Moreover, we conduct an annual survey to confirm the status of implementation and make site visits to key business partners. For more information, see Supply Chain Management (pages 43 to 46). Basic Approach to Respect for Diversity Anritsu upholds respect for human rights as one of our highest priority issues in both the Anritsu Group Charter of Corporate Behavior and Anritsu Group Code of Conduct. Given the rapid evolution of business worldwide, we believe it is important to attract a diverse workforce in terms of nationality, gender, age and views on work. This enables us to develop systems and programs that allow every individual to demonstrate their strengths based on their lifestyles, and to provide safe, secure and comfortable working conditions. ▶Employee Data: Group companies in Japan FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 Total No. of regular employees of Group 2,206 2,194 2,206 2,212 companies in Japan Male 1,927 1,900 1,913 1,917 Female 279 294 293 295 Foreign nationals 16 24 26 30 Average age 41.5 41.5 41.9 42.3 Average working years 18.6 18.5 18.9 19.2 Non-regular employee 463 525 567 566 Ratio of Employees with Disabilities 2.25 1.95 1.71 1.78 (non-consolidated) % Ratio of Employees with Disabilities 1.56 1.70 1.75 1.74 (The Anritsu Group in Japan) % Regal Disability employment ratio 1.80 1.80 2.00 2.00 (Reference) Employee Data of Group companies in Japan as of the End of March (eg., data for fiscal 2014 is as of March 31, 2015) Anritsu CSR REPORT 2015 48 Goal Maintaining Harmony Respect for Human Rights 2 with the Global Socio-Economy and Promotion of Diversit y ▶Employee Data(Anritsu Corporation) FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 No. of employees:Figures in Male 711（176） 712（174） 646（165） 684（177） parentheses refer to number of Female 113（4） 119（4） 111（4） 105（4） managers included in total count Total 824（180） 831（178） 757（169） 789（181） Male 40.4 41.7 41.5 42.0 Average age Female 36.1 37.3 37.3 38.4 Total 39.9 41.0 41.0 41.5 Male 16.5 17.6 17.6 17.8 Average working years Female 13.4 14.5 14.9 15.9 Total 16.1 17.1 17.2 17.5 Annual rated working hours 1,875.5 1,860 1,860 1,860 Average days of paid holidays used per year 15.6 14.2 14.5 15.1 No. of employees who took paid childcare leave 9 8 9 9 No. of eligible No. of employees whose 18 19 6 4 employees employment has been extended No. of beyond normal retirement age employees over (for hiring employees over 15 14 4 3 retirement age retirement age) hired Anritsu Corporation Employee Data as of the End of March (eg., data for fiscal 2014 is as of March 31, 2015) ● Human Rights Education and plan We conducted education on respect for human rights in accordance with the Anritsu Group Code of Conduct for university graduates and mid-career employees upon joining the company. We also implemented a number of activities such as organizational level training to foster an awareness of human rights within and outside the company on issues that require constant vigilance, including discrimination against minority groups, sexual harassment and abuse of power in the workplace, and to improve communication. A nrit su G roup Co d e of Co n du c t •We will respect every person's fundamental human rights from a defender of human dignity standpoint, eliminate prejudice, and will not discriminate depending on race, nationality, religion, creed, sex, age, social status, or disabilities whether mental or physical. •We will respect each and every individual's personality, and will not accept any discriminatory languages or behaviors, sexual harassment, or any kind of harassment which would result in hurting other people's personality. •We will develop deeper understanding and act towards human respect through various educational programs. To promote respect for human rights across the entire supply chain, the Anritsu CSR Procurement Guidelines contain articles calling for the abolition of forced labor and prohibition of inhuman treatment, child labor and discrimination. URL Anritsu CSR Procurement Guidelines Anritsu CSR REPORT 2015 49 Goal Maintaining Harmony Respect for Human Rights 2 with the Global Socio-Economy and Promotion of Diversit y ● Creating Jobs for People with Disabilities Our employment ratio of people with disabilities for fiscal 2014 (as of December 31, 2014) rose to 1.78% from the previous year but we were unable to meet the legally mandated employment ratio of 2.0%. To meet this requirement in fiscal 2015, we will steadily maintain our recruitment efforts and seek to create a better working environment by expanding the range of available jobs so that individuals with disabilities can apply their strengths in mutual cooperation with other employees in the workplace. 2011 2012 2013 2014 Planned ratio (non-consolidated) 1.80 1.80 2.0 0 2.0 0 Actual ratio (non-consolidated) 2.25 1.95 1.70 1.78 Ref: Actual ratio ( consolidated in Japan) 1.56 1.69 1.59 1.77 As of the end of December in each year ● Supporting Women’s Career Development Anritsu emphasizes the creation of a safe, secure and comfortable workplace environment in which employees can enrich their lives and develop their careers. In regard to supporting women in their career development, we are proactively working to establish a workplace environment that supports balancing work and childcare. This includes providing programs for paid leave, maternity leave and reinstatement, both before and after childbirth and during childrearing. To ensure that employees applying for these programs can balance work and family with greater peace of mind—regardless of gender—we disseminate information companywide to establish familiarity with the programs and raise awareness to inspire greater understanding. ▶Worldwide Ratio of Female Employees Asia and Japan Americas EMEA Total others FY2014 13 30 21 26 19 Ratio of female employees FY2013 13 30 22 26 19 (No. of female employees / Total employees) FY2012 17 31 25 31 22 FY2014 9 56 72 66 44 Ratio of female managers to male Managers ((No. of female managers / No. of female employees)/ FY2013 9 59 74 78 47 (No. of male managers / No. of male employees)) FY2012 8 59 82 57 45 ● Balancing Work and Family Anritsu Corporation has been expanding its programs and developing its systems under the third stage of its three year plan (see the chart below). We completed all scheduled initiatives within the plan period, which included the launch of a website to support balancing work and life, and the introduction of a paid leave program for those who are parenting. In fiscal 2015, we will continue these efforts and considerations under the next action plan to enhance support and further establish our systems for achieving a balance between work and childcare as well as nursing care. Objectives Measures Action Allow men and women employees to take leave Enhance child-raising leave program, widened Shorter work hours available for more parents for child-raising with greater peace of mind. the eligibility for shorter schedules for working of children up to sixth grade (FY2012) parents, etc. Introduced parental leave for child-raising (FY2013) Reinforce system to help parent employees with Subsidize child-raising service charges Introduced a program to subsidize day care temporary child-raising service charges. at a family support center run by a local fees of a family support center (FY2012) government. Enhance understanding among employees Launch website on programs that support childLaunch website on programs that support that we support greater work-family balance raising and achieving work-life balance, etc. child-raising and achieving work-life balance in child-raising. (FY2013) Anritsu Corporation’s Action Plan to Support Child Welfare 3rd Stage (April 1, 2012 to March 31, 2015) Anritsu CSR REPORT 2015 50 Goal Maintaining Harmony Respect for Human Rights Human Resource 2 with the Global Socio-Economy and Promotion of Diversity Development Applying the Skills of Senior Employees Anritsu Corporation and its Group companies in Japan operate an employment extension program in which employees can continue working after retirement at age 60. In principle, we grant extensions to all applicants, who are then able to continue applying the ample knowledge, experience and advanced skills they have gained over the years and provide guidance and training for the next generation. We will continue to promote diverse working styles and careers for our human resources. Promoting the Careers of Non-Japanese Employees Anritsu Corporation and its Group companies in Japan hire employees regardless of nationality while participating in job fairs ＊ organized by overseas universities, accepting interns from universities in Japan and overseas and hiring exchange students in Japan. As of March 31, 2015, 37 non-Japanese nationals are employed at our worksites in Japan. In fiscal 2014, we introduced Japanese lessons for employees who cannot speak the language, and 13 employees attended. We will continue to develop a working environment that supports the engagement of non-Japanese employees. Job fairs:：Opportunities for exchanging information and developing a mutual understanding between job applicants and companies. Human Resource Development Basic Concept Anritsu believes in the importance of being an organization in which employees feel they are contributing to society and growing while being vibrant and actively achieving the company’s goals. With this belief, we constantly strive to create a workplace in which employees can grow through their work. Education/Training System Anritsu Corporation focuses on on-the-job training as a framework for supporting every employee in identifying the areas of work that are in line with their individual interests and developing the skills that enable them to realize their aspirations. Programs that are shared among all Anritsu Group companies in Japan include new recruit orientation, training by organizational level, correspondence courses and language studies, which all support the professional development of every Group employee. Education and Training in Fiscal 2014 In fiscal 2014, we continued our initiative from fiscal 2013 and held training for mid-career employees at all Group companies in Japan. Our objective was to develop the mindset employees need to become valued staff members who can achieve more as leaders in the workplace and as team members, as evaluated from the perspectives of five primary roles that mid-career employees are expected to take in their mid-thirties. We are creatively revising the program in response to post-program survey results and feedback from employees who have attended it. We also continued offering marketing training based on case studies for mid-career employees engaged in marketing and sales operations in FY2014. Participants consider themes from the various case studies in order to develop the skills required for formulating marketing strategies such as analysis, insight and planning. Anritsu CSR REPORT 2015 51 Goal Maintaining Harmony 2 with the Global Socio-Economy Human Resource Development Education/Training System Global Human Resource Development Anritsu is working to expand its business overseas, primarily in the area of test and measurement. Developing human resources capable of leading these overseas businesses represents a key challenge for achieving growth in the coming years. In developing global human resources, we think it is particularly important to raise the level of language proficiency and build on that foundation by strengthening our communication skills with non-Japanese people. In fiscal 2014, Anritsu Corporation accepted two non-Japanese people as interns, Onsite training who participated in onsite training at a worksite that develops products. On the receiving end, the supervisor and employees at the site communicated with the interns in English and experienced stimulating differences in culture and ways of thinking. We will continue to focus on providing education and training to develop global human resources, including lessons in languages other than English and training Presentation of results by interns sessions to help our employees understand different cultures. Global Training for the Test & Measurement Business Global Training for the Test & Measurement business was held in April 2015. Sales engineers engaged in this business at overseas bases gathered for sessions on new functions and demonstrations of products as well as those still in development. In addition, they attended lectures on the market and technology trends for LTE-Advanced carrier aggregation. We also held discussions on market requirements for our new product, the MT1000A/MT1100A network master. Global Training for the Test & Measurement This year a total of 82 persons—75 participants and 7 lecturers—traveled to Business Japan to attend these events. ▶Global Activities on Respect for Human Rights and Promotion of Diversity and Human Resource Development Results for Fiscal 2014 Targets for Fiscal 2015 • Fell short of attaining some of the annual targets of the • Complete the annual affirmative action plan by June 2015. affirmative action plan but were able to clearly advocate for • Comply with all local labor laws and regulations including equal employment opportunity; revised our systems to comply continuous training for managers. with Article 503 of the U.S. Rehabilitation Act. • Continue engagement survey. • Held three training sessions for managers on labor U.S. management, such as human resource allocation, performance management, non-discrimination, salaries and working hours. The rate of implementation was 78%. • Conducted an engagement survey in February 2015 and disclosed the survey results to all managers in April of that year. • Published a quarterly newsletter, sent by e-mail to all employ• Continue promoting respect for human rights and diversity in ees in the EMEA region. the EMEA region to ensure sound relationships with employees. EMEA • Increase the number of regions where the newsletters are published. • Not able to conduct employee satisfaction survey. • Continue holding monthly communication meetings and • Continued monthly communication meetings. monthly birthday parties. • Continued monthly birthday parties. • Develop a personnel program encompassing diversity and human rights. • No reported violations of rules for protecting human rights. China • Comply with Chinese human rights laws and regulations at the head office in China and discuss related issues at management meetings as required. • Ensure that all corporate policies and rules do not violate human rights. Anritsu CSR REPORT 2015 52 Goal Maintaining Harmony 2 with the Global Socio-Economy Human Resource Development Global Meeting Each corporate department of Anritsu’s headquater holds a global meeting every year. Members of the business division, Global Audit Department, Environment and Quality Promotion Department, Management Information System Department, Accounting and Control Department, Human Resource and Administration Department, Trade Control Department and Procurement Department gather at locations in Japan and abroad to share information about business guidelines, external trends and issues from a global perspective. Developing Human Resources in China In February 2015, we held a training session in the Shenzhen office of Anritsu (China) Co., Ltd. A total of 30 sales staff participated in training on making valuable sales proposals and sought to enhance their sales and negotiating skills. Human resource development in China Anritsu CSR REPORT 2015 53 Goal Maintaining Harmony 2 with the Global Socio-Economy Labor Safety and Health Labor Safet y and Health Basic Concept Our Charter of Corporate Behavior calls for “Respect for employees.” Anritsu believes that in order to enable every employee to fully achieve their potential, it is important to secure employee safety and health and to create an ideal workplace. Safety and Health, Health Management System The Anritsu Group in Japan established a safety and health management system that complies with Japan’s Occupational Safety and Health Act. Industrial health staff, led by industrial physicians and counselors assigned to the Health Management Center, provide support services to maintain the health of Group employees. In addition, the Anritsu Group in Japan has focused on preventing health problems associated with long working hours by continuously pursuing measures for normalizing working hours in accordance with common management policies for all companies, such as reducing overtime in response to results from fiscal 2013 and closely adhering to the hour designated for leaving the workplace. Major efforts for safety and health, health management ・Having the Safety and Health Committee review activity status and formulate plans to prevent employees from accidents ・Reducing the risk of accidents by conducting inspections before introducing, relocating or changing equipment, or when purchasing chemical materials ・Enhancing the awareness of safety and health through training at different organizational levels, and providing training on specific issues such as risk assessment ・Providing safe, secure and comfortable workplaces by assessing working Safety and Health Committee meeting environments and conducting periodic inspections ・Conducting health checkups—initial, periodic, special, and for expatriates, as well as follow-up examinations ・Screening through questionnaire and industrial physician interviews to those who work extended hours to prevent impaired health ・Raising health awareness through lectures by industrial physicians, for example, on preventing lifestyle diseases and infectious diseases ・Mental healthcare education for managers ・Counseling Labor Accident The Anritsu Group in Japan is promoting health and safety activities toward achieving zero accidents. In September 2014, Anritsu Corporation in Atsugi recorded 15.8 million continuous working hours with no accidents, achieving Category 3 Zero Accident Work Hours. However, an accident leading to absence from work subsequently occurred at Anritsu Corporation, and although the incident occurred on the staircase and involved only a short absence, we were unable to maintain the zero lost-time accidents we had attained in fiscal 2014. In fiscal 2015, we will start anew on our challenge to achieve the zero record for the entire Anritsu Group in Japan. Anritsu CSR REPORT 2015 54 Goal Maintaining Harmony 2 with the Global Socio-Economy Labor Safety and Health ▶Frequency Rate of Lost-worktime Injuries ▶Labor Accident (per million （100万時間当たり） 労働災害度数率推移 hours) 1.58 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 2.00 1.66 1.50 lost worktime 0(0) 0(0) 1(0) 0.94 1.06 Anritsu 1.00 0.76 Corporation 0.41 no time loss 0 1 1 0.50 0.41 0.00 00 0.22 lost worktime 4(0) 0(0) 0(0) 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Anritsu Group All industries, Manufacturing industry, and Electric All industries Anritsu Corporation in Japan machinery and apparatus industry: injuries that Manufacturing industry Anritsu Group no time loss 4 5 3 required more than four days of lost worktime; Electric machinery and apparatus industry Anritsu:injuries that required more than one day of lost worktime Fatalities numbers are put in parentheses. Seminars and Lectures In fiscal 2014, the number of commuting accidents involving Group employees in Japan increased by 3 to 12. Of the 8 accidents that resulted in lost work time, many occurred while commuting by bicycle, which led to our understanding of the need to raise employee awareness of bicycle safety. In fiscal 2014, we sought the cooperation of the Atsugi Police Department and held training primarily focused on bicycles, including seminars on traffic safety and anticipating dangerous traffic situations using computer graphics simulations. We will reinforce our educational efforts to prevent commuting accidents in fiscal 2015. Meanwhile, the ratio of abnormalities found in regular health checkups for Group employees in Japan continues to steadily increase in line with the national trend. In view of the results of these health checkups, we promoted activities for health education and development in 2014, including guidance for individual employees by our industrial health staff, lectures by industrial physicians and yoga classes. Seminars on traffic safety and anticipating Yoga classes dangerous traffic situations TOPICS Overseas Topic (OHSAS 18001 Certification) In May 2012, Anritsu EMEA Ltd. in the United Kingdom obtained certification for OHSAS 18001 (2007 version), the international standard for labor safety and health. ● Identify and control health and safety risks ● Reduce the potential for accidents ● Aid legal compliance ● Improve overall performance Anritsu CSR REPORT 2015 55 Goal Maintaining Harmony 2 with the Global Socio-Economy Promotion of Social Contribution Activities Promotion of Social Contribution Ac tivities Basic Concept Anritsu contributes to society through its business operations while at the same time pursuing activities that benefit the development of the local community as a corporate citizen. Community-based social contribution programs are at the center of these initiatives under the three pillars of “partnerships for educating youth”, “contributing to local communities” and “protecting the environment (biodiversity conservation)”, we carry out activities that our employees can participate in continuously. ● Partnerships for Educating Youth Kanagawa Science Summer Sponsored by Kanagawa Prefecture Anritsu participated in the 14th “Kanagawa Science Summer” event organized by Kanagawa Prefecture. Our program focused on the environment and manufacturing, and consisted of a talk and a “Let’s Make a Radio” Children’s Science and Environment Class, designed to familiarize children with wireless technology through building a radio at Anritsu corp. headquater. The one-day event was held during the children’s summer vacation and attended by 34 participants comprising 17 Kanagawa Prefecture elementary school children each paired with a parent. Kanagawa Science Summer Fun Science Laboratory Sponsored by the Atsugi City School Board, Kanagawa Prefecture There has been a growing concern with regard to young people’s waning interest in science. At the suggestion of the Atsugi City School Board, Anritsu has offered the “Fun Science Laboratory” at neighboring elementary schools since fiscal 2007 with the aim of raising children’s interest in science through a variety of experiences. In fiscal 2014, we sponsored an educational event for learning about electricity and the mechanism of batteries. Students participated in an experiment in which they formed a “human battery” using a salt solution, aluminum foil and a spoon to create a musical box that could play music. Many of the participating children told us the event had been exciting and fun. Fun Science Laboratory Workplace Experience for Junior High School Students For many years, Anritsu has supported local educational programs that offer junior high school students the opportunity to experience actual work at companies and stores in the community. In fiscal 2012, we received requests from one neighboring school. A workplace experience at Anritsu took place at the recycling center of Anritsu Kousan Co., Ltd., where students disassembled personal computers and also learned how to sort equipment components by material. We also provided environmental training on recycling. Anritsu CSR REPORT 2015 56 Goal Maintaining Harmony 2 with the Global Socio-Economy Promotion of Social Contribution Activities ● Support for Youth Sports Competitions We serve as a co-sponsor for the following youth sports competitions as a part of our contribution to the local community in Atsugi City, the location of Anritsu Corporation’s head office. Anritsu Cup Atsugi City Invitational U12 Soccer Competition Anritsu Corporation has been co-sponsoring the annual Atsugi City U12 Soccer Competition held every year in February since 1995, Anritsu’s centennial year. Until last year, the company had been sponsoring the Atsugi City Boys’ Soccer Competition. With the decision to expand the scope of our support to include girls’ teams starting in fiscal 2014, we adopted the Under-12 team registration category of the Japan Atsugi City Invitational U12 Soccer Competition Football Association and kicked off a new start with a competition for both boys and girls. Supporting the Atsugi City Kids’ Softball Competition Anritsu Corporation has been co-sponsoring the Anritsu Cup Atsugi City Kids’ Softball Competition since fiscal 2011. the Atsugi City Kids’ Softball Competition Anritsu Cup Dodge Ball Competition In fiscal 2013, Anritsu Corporation co-sponsored the 2nd Anritsu Cup Dodge Ball Competition, organized by the Atsugi Dodge Ball Committee since fiscal 2012. Dodge Ball Competition ● Contributing to Local Communities Collecting Plastic Bottle Caps The Anritsu Group in Japan collects plastic bottle caps in collaboration with the Amadera Industrial Park Council. The caps are sold as resin material with the proceeds used to purchase polio vaccines. In fiscal 2014, proceeds from the combined total of caps collected by the Anritsu Group and the Amadera Industrial Collecting Plastic Bottle Caps Park Council were used to donate 782 doses of the vaccine. Cooperating with Social and Recreational Events and Employee Education at Other Companies The site of Anritsu Corporation’s head office includes a sports field, which is normally used as a practice field for the company baseball team as well as a sports venue for employees. The field is also available for use by other local companies upon request. Supporting Reconstruction following the Great East Japan Earthquake Anritsu Corporation supports a program organized by Save the Children Japan to provide opportunities for preschool children in Fukushima Prefecture to play outdoors. In fiscal 2014, we began co-sponsoring the program, which includes voluntary activities by Anritsu employees.(refer to p.95: NGO/NPO of Communication with Stakeholders) URL Save the Children Japan Anritsu CSR REPORT 2015 57 Goal Maintaining Harmony 2 with the Global Socio-Economy Promotion of Social Contribution Activities Charity Event Anritsu EMEA Ltd. organizes “Coffee Mornings” through which the proceeds from selling homemade cakes are donated to various charities. As part of this activity, we made a donation to Macmillan Cancer Support, a British organization founded in 1911 that provides medical and psychological support, assistance and financial support, and organizes campaigns for improved cancer treatment. Its support is directed at patients as well as their families. In addition, we held a Coffee Morning on March 16, 2015, in support of World Down Syndrome Day. The U.K.-based Down Syndrome International (DSI) designated March 21 as World Down Syndrome Day, which was also recognized as an international day by the United Nations in 2012. DSI promotes international activities and events for raising awareness of Down Syndrome, what it means to have the disorder, and how people with it play an important role in our daily lives and communities. Charity Event URL Macmillan Cancer Support ● Protecting the Environment (biodiversity conservation) Mt. Fuji Green Fund Afforestation Campaign The Mt. Fuji Green Fund afforestation activities sponcered by Ricoh leasing Co., Ltd were held on October 25, 2014. Under a clear blue sky, volunteers enjoyed a beautiful view of Mt. Fuji as they worked hard to prune the branches of trees, which had grown to about three meters high, and eliminate climbing vines. The activity is part of a grand, 80-year-long effort launched in 2000 for regenerating forests destroyed by a typhoon in 1996. Community Cleanup Efforts Every year, Anritsu Group companies in Japan organize cleanups of the areas surrounding the Head Office of Anritsu Corporation and Tohoku Anritsu Co., Ltd. In fiscal 2012, the Head Office of Anritsu Corporation carried it out keeping up with Amadera clean-up campaign by Conference of the Amadera Industrial Park Council. A large number of employees participated in the project by picking up litter and weeding around the company. We also participate in community environmental preservation activities and other community projects such as the Sagami River Clean-up Campaign. Picking up litter around the company Anritsu CSR REPORT 2015 58 Goal 3 Promoting Global Environmental Protection Eco-Management, Eco-Mind Based on its environmental principles, Anritsu establishes an environmental management system to The goal for prevent global warming and to create a recycling-oriented society and to reduce toxic substances Anritsu throughout the life cycles of its products. The goal for Ever y employee enhances their environmental awareness and independently engages in employees environmental activities that are closely related to their own jobs. Appreciation Anritsu earns public recognition as an enterprise that actively contributes to global environmental by society protection by pursuing global environmental management. Promotion of Environmental Management Anritsu considers environmental management as a key issue for its management strategy and engages in various efforts to realize its 2020 VISION. In 2015 we launched our new three-year plan, the GLP2017 Environmental Initiative, as the second stage of our vision. Upon the simultaneous upgrades of ISO 14001 and ISO 9001 to their 2015 revisions, we will review both of our management systems to enhance the management quality throughout the entire value chain. We will maintain our global efforts related to social issues, including our initiatives on climate change, effective use of water resources and prevention of pollution. In addition, we will improve the quality of information we provide so that Toshihiko Takahashi stakeholders can gain a deeper understanding of our environmental Senior Vice President, Chief management. Technology Officer,Chief Environment and Quality We intend to continue promoting the environmental management of the officer, Anritsu Group in line with the keywords “entire value chain” and “global.” Anritsu Corporation Eco -Management, Eco -Mind Basic Concept Developing corporate environmental management group-wide, Anritsu further advances its activities toward the creation of Eco-Office, Eco-Factory and Eco-Products with Eco-Minded Employees. The Anritsu Group’s Environmental Principle Anritsu strives to give due consideration to the environment in both the development and manufacture of our products. Through sincerity, harmony and enthusiasm we will endeavor to foster a prosperous society at one with nature. Action Guidelines We create Eco-Office, Eco-Factory, and Eco-Products based on the EcoManagement of our company and the Eco-Mind of every one of us. Anritsu CSR REPORT 2015 59 Goal Promoting Global 3 Environmental Protection Eco-Management, Eco-Mind Contribution to Society •Eco-Management To help lower the environmental impact of •Eco-Products society and of our customers, management will We develop products that help to improve allocate the necessary resources and take action the environment in customer usage settings to comply with legal mandates, reduce the Eco-Management with full consideration for saving energy and environmental impact of business activities, resources and reducing harmful substances provide products that have less environmental throughout product lifecycles. impact and deliver products that contribute to lowering overall environmental impact. EcoEcoEcoOffice Products Factory •Eco-Factory •Eco-Office We strive to reduce environmental impact through saving energy and observing the 3Rs We make efforts to reduce environmental impact while reducing the risks of environmental by saving energy and resources and managing Ecopollution at our factories. waste in our offices. Family •Eco-Mind Each individual employee will aspire to become •Eco-Family a good corporate citizen by EcoAt home we will strive to reduce the recognizing their responsibility in the product Mind environmental load in our daily lives lifecycle and by making as good citizens through energy conservation, environmental improvements in their daily resource conservation and the 3Rs (reduce, operations. reuse and recycle). Boundary of Global Environmental Protection The articles in Preserving the Global Environment cover Anritsu Corp. and the following Group Companies: Anritsu Infivis Co., Ltd. Tohoku Anritsu Co., Ltd. Anritsu Customer Support Co., Ltd. Group Companies Anritsu Devices Co., Ltd. Anritsu Networks Co., Ltd. Anritsu Engineering Co., Ltd. in Japan Anritsu Kousan Co., Ltd. AT Techmac Co., Ltd. Anritsu Pro Associe Co., Ltd. Group Companies Anritsu Company (USA) Anritsu Ltd. (UK) Anritsu A/S (Denmark) outside Japan Environmental Management at Anritsu In pursuing initiatives for continuous improvement anchored in its environmental management system, Anritsu identifies both harmful and beneficial factors from the perspective of the environment. Environmental Risks Anritsu’s Environmental Efforts Identifying environmental impact Effective use of water resources Prevention of soil contamination Climate change ISO 14001 certification Water quality management Promotion of greening Depletion of Environmentally conscious Environmental audit Prevention of air pollution resources logistics Environmental × Environmental education for employees Prevention of noise and vibration Recycling used products Nurturing Eco-Mind awareness Groundwater quality pollution Energy-saving products of employees management Communication with Chemical substances Resource-saving products stakeholders management Destruction of ecosystems Social contribution PCB management Green procurement Energy conservation at factories Reduction and proper Products with reduced Compliance and offices management of waste harmful substances violations ■ Eco-Management, Eco-Mind ■ Eco-Office, Eco-Factory ■ Eco-Products Anritsu CSR REPORT 2015 60 Goal Promoting Global 3 Environmental Protection Eco-Management, Eco-Mind Anritsu seeks to reduce environmental impact throughout the entire value chain from the dual perspectives of developing environmentally conscious products and identifying and improving the environmental compatibility of all our global locations. Development of environmentally sound products (saving energy and resources, reducing harmful substances, providing benefits to the environment) Supplier Overall business activities Transport Use by customers Disposal Material procurement Factories/Offices Employee business trips Transportation Customer use Disassembly/Waste CO2 81,393 t CO（ 2 Scope1） 1,347 t CO2 3,369 t CO2 2,815 t CO2 37,508 t CO2 94 t CO2（Scope2） 14,706 t Wastewater 79,000 m3 Employee commuting Waste 290 t CO2 4,114 t NOx（ J a p a n ） 563 kg Fueland energy-related S O x（ J a p a n ） 154 kg Waste disposal activities not included BOD（ J a p a n ） 168 kg in Scope 1 or 2 CO2 33 t Capital goods Landfill amount to 22 ％ CO2 1,020 t total waste disposal CO2 11,781 t Identifying and improving the environmental profile of all our locations around the world Notes: • Figures are calculated in accordance with the “Basic guidelines on calculating greenhouse gas emissions in the supply chain.” Excel Detailed Data • For detailed information, please refer to Detailed Data. Scope Calculations Anritsu calculates greenhouse gas emissions generated throughout the entire value chain in accordance with the Scope Standard of the GHG Protocol. We have obtained third-party verification for actual emissions. ▶営業利益 / 売上高営業利益率 Fueland energy-related activities Direct emissions (Scope 1) 0.85% not included in Scope 1 or 2 0.64% Transportation and Indirect emissions derived from distribution 1.78% energy use(Scope 2) 9.30% Business travel 2.13% Other indirect emissions Employee commuting 2.60% (Scope 3) 89.85% Capital goods 7.5% Purchased goods Use of sold products 158,179 t and services 23.7% 51.46% Anritsu CSR REPORT 2015 61 Goal Promoting Global 3 Environmental Protection Eco-Management, Eco-Mind Initiatives for Realizing the 2020 VISION Anritsu promotes environmental management toward its 2020 VISION goal of “Building an environmental brand by pursuing global environmental management throughout the entire value chain.” With respect to activities launched in fiscal 2012, we have completed the three-year plan, which constituted the first stage, in fiscal 2014. In terms of efforts for the entire value chain, we identified environmental impacts using the Scope 3 standard and strengthened the Life Cycle Assessment of products. As for global management, we expanded our development of environmentally conscious products on an international scale and sought closer collaboration as a global group. In fiscal 2015, we launched the GLP2017 Environmental Initiative as the second stage, through which we will pursue five priority themes until fiscal 2017, the initiative’s final year, toward realizing the 2020 VISION. ▶Priority themes of GLP 2017 Environmental Initiative 2020 VISION：Building an environmental brand by pursuing global environmental management throughout the entire value chain. Efforts to Preserve Biodiversity Prevention of global warming Create a recycling-oriented society Prevention of pollution Energy/ Water Resources Chemical substances Priority Theme 1 Eco-Management Improve the management system to create a closer link with management EcoPriority Theme 2 Communication Provide information that meets stakeholder expectations Priority Theme 3 Priority Theme 4 Eco-Products Provide energyand resource-saving products Provide products that do not contain hazardous substances Eco-Office, Priority Theme 5 Reduction of chemical substances Observance of the 3Rs Eco-Factory Effectively use energy and water and prevention of risks Eco-mind Cultivation of Eco-Mind awareness ●Priority Theme 1:Improve the management system to create a closer link with management Upon the simultaneous upgrades of ISO 14001 and ISO 9001 to their 2015 versions, we will revise our management systems so that they contribute to management by building on the product realization process and integrating systems with the quality management system more closely linked with the value chain while also seeking to raise the efficiency of system management. ●Priority Theme 2:Provide information that meets stakeholder expectations We will provide the accurate information required by stakeholders to realize goals that meet stakeholder expectations. ●Priority Theme 3:Provide energyand resource-saving products We will continue to create environmentally conscious products on a global scale. We will also consider ways to make improvements in the “Purchased goods and services” and “Use of sold products” categories under Scope 3, which are particularly high in CO2 emissions. ●Priority Theme 4:Provide products that do not contain hazardous substances We will ensure full compliance with the European RoHS Directive on Category 9 products (including Anritsu’s mainstay products of measuring instruments and industrial equipment) by the July 2017 deadline. We will also quickly respond to hazardous substance regulations by gathering accurate information, as their use in products will be subject to tighter restrictions. Anritsu CSR REPORT 2015 62 Goal Promoting Global 3 Environmental Protection Eco-Management, Eco-Mind ●Priority Theme 5:Effectively use energy and water Anritsu has been consistently striving to effectively use energy across the globe. Water is a resource that is at risk of becoming depleted, and we will launch a worldwide effort on the effective use of water to expand our previously local efforts. ●Themes for Continuous Improvement We will maintain our efforts in areas such as promoting the 3Rs, reducing the factory use of chemical substances and preventing related risks while also cultivating Eco-Mind awareness among employees. Environmental Management Promotion System A rising number of issues have required that Anritsu make a global effort, including the environmental expectations of customers, regulations on chemical substances contained in products such as the RoHS Directive, development of environmentally conscious products, prevention of climate change and water resource issues. To deal with global environmental issues in general, we hold Global Environment Management Meetings, attended by responsible officers at our four major locations in Japan, the United States, the United Kingdom and Denmark. To pursue our global efforts, we also set up an Environment Management Committee that aims to resolve environmental issues while using the environmental management system, a Product Assessment Committee for promoting the development of environmentally conscious products, and a Promotion of RoHS Group Meeting for the development and production of products that do not contain banned substances. Global Environment Management Meeting Environment Management Committe (promotion of environmental management system) Overall Environment Management Controller Product Assessment Committee (promotion of developing environmentally conscious products) Promotion of RoHS Group Meeting Environmental Management Organization (Japan) The environmental management organization of the Anritsu Group in Japan promotes environmental management activities under the leadership of the director of environmental management (Anritsu Corporation’s vice president in charge of overall environmental management). As part of our organizational restructuring, we established the Technical Headquarters and the Global Procurement Operation Division in April 2015. Overall Environment Management Controller Environment Management Committee Environment Product Assessment Committee Legally authorized personnel Internal Environmental Auditor Management Representative Procurement Operation Division Corporate (includes Anritsu Pro Anritsu Customer Support Co., Ltd. Anritsu Engineering Co., Ltd. Anritsu Networks Co., Ltd. Environment and Quality Anritsu Devices Co., Ltd. Anritsu Kousan Co., Ltd. Tohoku Anritsu Co., Ltd. AT Techmac Co., Ltd. Anritsu Infivis Co., Ltd. Marketing Division Technical Headquarters (includes SCM Division) R&D Division Sales Division Associe Co., Ltd.) Promotion Department Anritsu CSR REPORT 2015 63 Goal 3 環境 経営推進 Promoting Global エコマネジメント・エコマインド Eco-Management, Eco-Mind Environmental Protection Environmental Management Systems The Anritsu Group has established environmental management systems at major production sites in Japan and the United States and has obtained ISO 14001 certification. Based on the number of Anritsu staff in our global operations, the ratio covered by the environmental management system is approximately 70%. ISO 14001 Registration Company Anritsu Corporation(Head Office) 【Certification Date】August 1998 【Update】February 2013 【Certification Organization】JQA/JQA-EM0210* •Anritsu Corporation •Anritsu Kousan Co., Ltd. •Anritsu Infivis Co., Ltd. •AT Techmac Co., Ltd. •Anritsu Customer Support Co., Ltd. •Anritsu Pro Associe Co., Ltd. •Anritsu Networks Co., Ltd. •Anritsu Devices Co., Ltd. •Anritsu Engineering Co., Ltd. •Tohoku Anritsu Co., Ltd.* *Expanded the scope of ISO14001 accreditation to include Tohoku Anritsu Co., Ltd., which independently acquired certification in October 1999. Anritsu Company(USA) 【Address】490 Jarvis Drive Morgan Hill, CA 95037 【Certification Date】March 2007 【Update】March 2013 【Certification Organization】NQA/EN12275 Environmental Audit In the external ISO 14001 recertification audit for fiscal 2014, the Anritsu Group in Japan received an integrated audit in which audits were simultaneously conducted for the ISO 9001 quality management system and ISO 27001 information security management system. As a result, all items were found to be in compliance. In addition, the Anritsu Group in Japan conducted two internal environmental audits of the conformance and effectiveness of our environmental management system and environmental performance in July and compliance status in October. While this resulted in indications of 28 areas as well as 4 areas of potential opportunities for improvement, there were no nonconforming areas. We also report on and improve common Group issues through the Environment Management Committee. Anritsu CSR REPORT 2015 64 Goal Promoting Global 3 Environmental Protection Eco-Management, Eco-Mind Compliance Status The Anritsu Group in Japan recognizes business-related environmental laws and regulations and confirms the status of compliance through internal environmental audits. In activities involving regulations on water quality, air and noise, we strive to ensure compliance by adopting voluntary management standards that are more demanding than statutory regulations. As a result, there have been no legal violations for over a decade. More than fifty years have passed since we opened our office at the Atsugi site, so we are currently undertaking a scrap-and-build operation for aging buildings and facilities. While this has involved numerous tasks related to submitting requests and gaining regulatory approval, we completed all procedures by maintaining close contact with the relevant public agencies. In addition, we have an established mechanism for handling complaints under the environmental management system. In fiscal 2014, we received no complaints from interested parties including people living around the site. Looking ahead, we will further reduce our environmental impact through ongoing maintenance while maintaining full compliance. Efforts to Preserve Biodiversity ● Basic Policy for Conserving Biodiversity The business operations of the Anritsu Group benefit and influence the ecosystem supported by diverse organisms at the same time. Preserving the biodiversity which is the foundation of the ecosystem is therefore a vital concern for environmental management. The basic policy of the Anritsu Group is to encourage activities that reduce our environmental impact associated with our business operations and to preserve biodiversity through social contribution efforts that protect the natural environment. Biodiversity Conservation Basic Policy We strive to reduce environmental impact, focusing on the following three areas of our business activities: Mitigation of climate change Business Operations Activities to Reduce Environmental Impact Control overexploitation/ habitat loss Business activities with Global warming prevention→Mitigation of climate change Control pollution/habitat loss environmental impact limited Resource-saving/recycling→Control overexploitation/habitat loss within an acceptable range for the earth Control chemical substance release→Control pollution/habitat loss Social Contribution Activities Activities to Reduce Environmental Impact Increase the regenerative Social contribution activities for biodiversity capacity of the earth →Joined the tree planting activities, local cleanups, etc. ● Acknowledging the Current Situation We work to conserve biodiversity fully recognizing that the Anritsu Group’s business activities enjoy various benefits from the biodiversity of the surrounding ecosystem, and that these business activities, in turn, impact biodiversity. Anritsu CSR REPORT 2015 65 Goal Promoting Global 3 Environmental Protection Eco-Management, Eco-Mind ● Biodiversity Relevance Map We created a relevance map based on the Japan Business Initiative for Conservation and Sustainable Use of Biodiversity format to better understand the relationships between our business activities and biodiversity. The map illustrates our relationship with ecosystems and helps identify areas of major impact. The result is reflected in our Basic Policy for Conservation of Biodiversity. Energy resources •Loss of habitats Crude oil (as fuel), •Chemical substance release Benefit •Introduction of alien uranium To atmosphere: CO2, NOx, SOx species To water: BOD, COD, SS •Pollution/climate change Impact Renewable To soil: slug, sludge, unspecified •Overexploitation energy resources solid waste /overconsumption Water, wood Energy resources Crude oil (as fuel), coal, natural gas, uranium Design Energy resources Shipping Production Sale Crude oil (as fuel) Renewable energy resources Renewable Water, wood energy resources Business Activities Wood Mineral resources Gold, silver, copper, Raw material platinum, iron, tin, Use • Chemical procurement substance release lead, zinc, nickel, Maintenance chrome,bauxite, CO2,NOx,SOx manganese, crude oil (as raw materials) •Loss of habitats Collection • Introduction of alien species •Loss of habitats Land use Recycling • Pollution/climate change •Introduction of alien species •Overexploitation •Pollution/climate change /overconsumption •Overexploitation /overconsumption Substance •Chemical substance release introduction/removal Energy resources 生息地喪失 外来生物導入 Change in land use 汚染 気候変動 CO2,NOx,SOx Crude oil (as fuel) Loss of habitats, Introduction of alien species, Pollution/climate change ● Joined Nippon Keidanren’s Declaration of Biodiversity Anritsu has endorsed Nippon Keidanren’s Declaration of Biodiversity and participates as a promotion partner to exercise leadership in creating a society that values and supports biodiversity. Anritsu CSR REPORT 2015 66 Goal Promoting Global 3 Environmental Protection Eco-Management, Eco-Mind Environmental Education for Employees To raise the environmental awareness of each employee and encourage them to actively engage in environmental activities, we provide general education through e-learning every year for all Anritsu Group employees as well as environmental education programs designed for each job type and rank. These programs are also attended by employees of business partners under consignment. In fiscal 2014, we conducted educational programs for the technical and quality Environmental Education assurance divisions, particularly driven by the application of the CE marking* of the RoHS Directive. ＊Mandatory compliance standard applied to designated products in the European Union. Educational Programs New employee education Internal auditor training program Internal auditor follow-up education General education Education for technology departments Education for sales departments Onsite consignment worker education High-pressure gas handler courses Chemical substances manager training Eco-Mind Awareness of Employees We conduct a survey of all Anritsu Group employees in Japan to determine the degree to which we share an Eco-Mind awareness. Questions were designed to determine the state of workplace activities by asking whether action is being taken toward creating the Eco Office (promoting conservation, promoting the 3Rs and reducing environmental compliance risks), as well as the state of activities at home and about participant awareness with regard to efforts undertaken by Anritsu. In fiscal 2014 we implemented actions that reflected the results of last year’s survey, which led to an increase in the ratio of “Excellent Eco-Persons,” who scored above 90 points on the survey, to 19.7%. We intend to increase the ratio of Excellent Eco-Persons by motivating employees to participate in environmental activities through the Eco-Mind Survey and through other actions in response to survey results. ■Excellent Eco-Person ■Eco-Person ■Eco-Person Challenger Environmental Policy and Behavioral Guidelines We create Eco-Office, Eco-Factory and Eco-Products with the Eco-Mind FY2012 13.2% 52.5% 34.3% of every one of our employees. Highly eco-minded person = Person who acts on behalf of the environment FY2013 16.3% 54.5% 29.2% Do you engage in environmental activities at the workplace? FY2014 19.7 55.3% 25.0% Do you engage in environmental activities at home? Are you aware of Anritsu’s environmental efforts? Enhance Anritsu Eco-Mind Survey Eco-Mind Anritsu CSR REPORT 2015 67 Goal Promoting Global 3 Environmental Protection Eco-Management, Eco-Mind Promoting Environmental Communication We disseminate information inside and outside the company with a firm belief in the vital importance of raising stakeholder awareness of our environmental activities and gaining their support in Anritsu’s efforts to protect the global environment. To provide environmental information tailored for each group of stakeholders, we publish the “Environment Leaflet” for customers and “Eco Club” for employees, in addition to our CSR report, environmental advertisements and environment-related features offered via the Internet. In fiscal 2014, we followed up on the results of the Eco-Mind Survey conducted in fiscal 2013 by publishing a special Eco Club issue for employees that featured examples of environmental actions that can be taken at home. Environment Leaflet for Eco Club for employees customers CDP The CDP is a not-for-profit organization that collaborates with institutional investors (822 companies with approximately 95 trillion dollars in combined assets under management as of July 2015) to send questionnaires to approximately 5,000 leading companies in the world (500 are Japanese), requesting disclosure of information on climate change strategy and volume of greenhouse gas emissions. The CDP analyzes and assesses the responses and discloses the results to investors, which can be used to inform their investment decisions. Anritsu has been responding to the CDP questionnaire since fiscal 2012. In fiscal 2014, we responded by undergoing third-party verification for our Scope 3 data. As a result, our disclosure score rose from 77 in fiscal 2013 to 83, while our performance score of “B” remained the same. We will continue our efforts to enhance the realiability of our information disclosure and reduce CO2 emissions throughout our supply chain to prevent global warming. Anritsu CSR REPORT 2015 68 Goal Promoting Global 3 Environmental Protection Eco-Office, Eco-Factory Eco Office, Eco Factory Our Environmentally Friendly Global Headquarters Building The construction of the Global Headquarters Building, completed at our Atsugi site, incorporated the concept of contributing to the creation of an environmentally friendly society and features a number of environmental designs. The building qualifies for the S-rank, the highest recognition given by Kanagawa Prefecture under its “CASBEE Kanagawa” assessment system for global warming countermeasures in building plans, which requires companies to submit a plan that includes measures against global warming for new construction or renovation of buildings exceeding a certain size. Only 4 of the 140 applicants in fiscal 2013 qualified as S-rank buildings, including Anritsu’s Global Headquarters Building, which places it in the top class of environmentally friendly buildings in Kanagawa Prefecture. Building area About 6,400 m2 Total floor area About 27,700 m2 Structure 6 stories/base-isolated structure ●Solar Power Generators We installed solar power generators each with a maximum output of 15 kW on the roof and use the electricity as the power source for air conditioning and other building services. ●Skylight and Light Courts We installed a skylight in the central atrium and two light courts on the fifth and sixth floors to capture natural light. There is almost no lighting equipment in the central atrium because of the skylight, and the conference room near the light court is also structured to receive natural light. ●LED Lighting We have significantly reduced electricity consumption by using LEDs for all lighting. Moreover, LED lighting on the second to sixth floors is controlled by sensors that detect daylight and the presence of human bodies, allowing us to lower luminance in bright areas near windows and automatically turn off the lights where no people are present, leading to further cuts in electricity consumption. Anritsu CSR REPORT 2015 69 Goal Promoting Global 3 Environmental Protection Eco-Office, Eco-Factory ●Light Shelves Light shelves that take in natural light are installed on the second to sixth floor windows, running north to south. Natural light from these shelves and daylight sensors in the LED lighting system limit the electricity used for lighting. ●Natural Ventilation System The light shelves are also fitted with air intakes for a natural circulation of air. The natural ventilation intake monitors temperatures inside and outside the building as well as humidity and wind direction, and central surveillance will control the opening and closing of the intake when certain conditions are met. The flow of outside air exits from the uppermost window of the central atrium. This efficient, natural air conditioning reduces electricity consumption, especially in the spring and autumn. Light Shelves Natural Ventilation System ●Highly Efficient, Multi-Split Air Conditioning and Ventilation Systems The air conditioners reduce input to the compressor through inverter control and stabilize room temperatures. We also installed an air conditioning system capable of separately controlling partitioned zones in the building, such as by story, floor or area. This helps to reduce electricity consumption by setting separate temperatures for air conditioning in each zone and by turning off the air conditioning in others. We also use CO2 sensors to take in outside air in order to prevent indoor CO2 density levels from rising too high. ●Thermal Insulation and Air Tightness Low-E multiple layer glass is used for the windows, which lets light inside but blocks heat. The walls also feature strong insulation properties. ●Water Conservation The water-efficient toilets and urinals use sensors to conserve water. ●Rainwater Infiltration Considering the possibility of groundwater depletion and flooding caused by heavy rainfall, we installed a rainwater permeation basin to facilitate the penetration of rainwater into the ground. ●Greening In the inner court and outer perimeter of the building, we are planting vegetation with due consideration for the climate and soil of Atsugi City as well as plants that are indigenous to the region (potential natural vegetation). ●Visualizing Electric Power Consumption We disclose electric power consumption data for the Global Headquarters Building and other buildings via monitors and the corporate intranet to raise employee awareness of energy conservation. Anritsu CSR REPORT 2015 70 Goal Promoting Global 3 Environmental Protection Eco-Office, Eco-Factory Energy-saving Activities at Factories and Offices Anritsu pursues energy conservation as the most important factor of environmental activities undertaken at its factories and offices. The Anritsu Group in Japan depends on electric power for over 95% of its energy needs and is therefore continually striving to conserve electricity. Air conditioning equipment consumes the greatest amount of electricity, and we have been systematically upgrading to energy-saving equipment, installing ice thermal storage units, frequently cleaning air filters, and undertaking heat insulation work on the walls of buildings. We have also sought to conserve energy by replacing equipment with energy-saving models, such as inverters for fluorescent lighting equipment and low-loss transformers. We have taken part in Cool Biz and Warm Biz activities for over a decade, and energy-saving awareness has taken root among the employees. We have consequently been able to reduce electric power consumption by about a third over the past ten years. In fiscal 2014, we achieved even higher efficiency by upgrading air conditioning equipment at the Atsugi and Tohoku sites, reducing electric power consumption by 2.2%. In March 2015, we completed construction of our Global Headquarters Building featuring the latest environmentally friendly technology and intend to promote further energy savings. In addition to these activities, the Anritsu Group in Japan participates in a program promoted by the electric and electronics-related industries in Japan for establishing a carbon-free society by achieving the common goal of improving the basic unit of energy by 1% every year toward 2020. Under the mid-term plan of our GLP2017 Environmental Initiatives, we will strive toward our global goal of reducing electric power consumption by 1% every year compared to fiscal 2014 levels for the Anritsu Group worldwide. ▶Change in electric （国内アンリツグループ） ▶電気エネルギー使用量推移 energy use (Anritsu Group companies in Japan) （MWh） 40,000 ■Touhoku site ■Hiratsuka site 31,237 29,994 ■Tanasawa site ■Atsugi site 30,000 28,405 27,952 25,676 24,243 25,426 23,367 21,433 21,253 20,794 20,000 10,000 0 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 FY ▶▶［Reference]Reference ［参考]エネルギー使用によるCO2排出量 （国内アンリツグループ） CO 2 emissions from total energy use (Group companies in Japan) （千t-CO2） 15 13.55 ■Touhoku site ■Hiratsuka site 13.19 13.21 12.24 12.57 12.27 ■Tanasawa site 11.76 11.01 10.11 9.46 ■Atsugi site 10 9.01 5 0 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 FY Emission coefficient by the Federation of （0.418）（0.423）（0.410）（0.453）（0.373）（0.351）（0.350）（0.476） （0.487）（0.57）（0.57） Electric Power Companies of Japan provisional value (provisional value for fiscal 2014) Reference We calculated CO2 emissions resulting from the use of all energy sources at Anritsu Group companies in Japan using the emission factor adopted by the Law Concerning the Promotion of the Measures to Cope with Global Warming (revised March 29, 2006). Note that CO2 emissions associated with electric power are calculated using the CO2 emission factor (tCO2/MWh) published by the Federation of Electric Power Companies of Japan for each fiscal year (the actual figure for fiscal 2013 was temporarily used as the emission factor for fiscal 2014). The CO2 emission factor varies each fiscal year according to the supply situation of each electric power company. Therefore, some fiscal years show an increase in CO2 emissions, despite reductions in electric energy consumption. (Example: In fiscal 2011, electric power consumption decreased in fiscal 2010, while CO2 emissions increased year-on-year.) *Until fiscal 2012, we had been using the adjusted CO2 emission factor including the Kyoto Mechanism Credit, etc. However, following the revision of the Act on Promotion of Global Warming Countermeasures and the exclusion of the Kyoto Mechanism Credit, etc., from the adjusted CO2 emission factor, we decided to start using the actual emission factor in fiscal 2013. Anritsu CSR REPORT 2015 71 Goal Promoting Global 3 Environmental Protection Eco-Office, Eco-Factory Revision of Energy Conservation Targets for the Anritsu Group in Japan to Adjust for Disruptive Factors In past energy conservation activities, the Anritsu Group in Japan had sought to reduce total energy use, or the basic unit of energy. Target management, however, proved to be difficult due to disruptive factors such as differences in average annual temperatures, changes in total floor area caused by scrap-and-build operations for buildings, and disparities in sales and operational hours at each factory and office, making this target an unreliable indicator of actual conditions. As a corrective measure to eliminate these disruptions and enable us to visualize the net results of our energy saving efforts, we began experimenting with a management method that corrected for multiple factors, including external temperatures, total floor area, and the number of working days and operational hours. With regard to external temperatures, for example, we set a correction factor for each site based on past trends for energy use and external temperatures and made adjustments in consideration of the differences between the benchmark year of fiscal 2013 and the monthly average temperatures for fiscal 2014. As for working days, a difference in one day results in an impact close to 0.5% against the target of a 1.0% reduction, so adjustments were also made to account for the difference in working days. After we incorporated these corrections to reflect conditions at each site, the result was a 1.9% reduction, and a meaningful link was established between actual monthly results for fiscal 2013 and the monthly targets for fiscal 2014. This provides us with a picture that is closer to the actual situation and has enabled us to visualize the results of our reduction efforts. Looking ahead, we will introduce this management method across the company and seek further improvements toward our goal of reducing energy consumption by 1.0% each year up to 2020. Renewable Energy The Koriyama Second Business Office uses electricity generated by solar power generators with maximum output capacity of 200 kW. In fiscal 2014, the site used 200 MWh of renewable energy generated by solar power, representing about 16% of its total electricity needs. Surplus electricity is supplied at no cost to Tohoku Electric Power Company. Solar Power Generating facility of Koriyama Second Business Office Anritsu CSR REPORT 2015 72 Goal Promoting Global 3 Environmental Protection Eco-Office, Eco-Factory Water Resources Over the past ten years, the Anritsu Group in Japan has reduced water use by nearly 50%. At the Atsugi site, which uses large volumes of water, we have been reducing water use through efforts such as monthly leakage inspections, upgrading to water-saving toilets and using circulated water in facilities. Specifically, we have been using groundwater to flush toilets in the Atsugi site, and we have reduced our use of groundwater to about a quarter of the original volume over the past ten years. Until now, we have sought to reduce water usage and effectively use water on a local basis. We have decided to address this as a global issue by setting an annual average reduction target of around 1.0% for the Anritsu Group worldwide. ▶Water（国内アンリツグループ） ▶水使用量 consumption (Anritsu Group in Japan) Efforts to Preserve Resources （m3） ■Hiratsuka site ■Tohoku site ■Tanasawa site Introduced a body detection sensor for men’s toilets ■Atsugi site（groundwater）■Atsugi site（municipal water） 180,000 Introduced water-saving toilets 150,000 143,484 129,734 Introduced automatic faucets 131,562 132,227 Used well water for toilet flushing 120,000 112,040 100,895 Installed water-saving valves for faucets 96,730 102,000 90,000 81,691 Installed a sound emulator, “Otohime,” for toilets 74,856 74,968 Conducted leakage inspections 60,000 Participated in Mt. Fuji Green Fund Afforestation Efforts (participated in a tree planting activity) 30,000 Participated in a cleanup of the Sagami River 0 Reuse of rinse water from the metal degreasing unit 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 FY Groundwater Management With regard to organochlorine substances, we completely eliminated the use of trichloroethylene in 1970 and 1,1,1-trichloroethane in 1993. In fiscal 2012, levels of tetrachloroethylene were higher than permitted under environmental standards. Anritsu, however, has never used this substance, and the local government is also aware that the source of contamination lies upstream from Anritsu. We will nevertheless continue to monitor the site. Item Environmental standard level [mg/l] Measured value [mg/l] Trichloroethylene 0.03 0.014 *1 Tetrachloroethylene 0.01 0.064 1,1,1-trichloroethane 1 <0.0005 1,1-dichloroethylene 0.1 <0.002 Dichloromethane 0.02 （*2） Cis-1,2-dichloroethylene 0.04 0.020 ＊1 Tetrachloroethylene surpassed acceptable level, but Atsugi site has never used it. ＊ 2 We have never used dichloromethane in our processes and the results for fiscal 2008 were below the lower limit of quantification (0.002mg/l). Therefore, we discontinued taking measurements in fiscal 2009. Excel Environmental Data of Each Site Anritsu CSR REPORT 2015 73 Goal Promoting Global 3 Environmental Protection Eco-Office, Eco-Factory Wastewater The Atsugi site operates an industrial wastewater treatment facility to detoxify industrial wastewater containing acids and alkali and wastewater discharged from small boilers used to adjust humidity inside cleanrooms. In fiscal 2013 we upgraded the facility, partly to address the wear and tear of existing facilities but also because of changes in our business structure (the discontinuation in 2002 of industrial processes that use large volumes of water, such as manufacturing printed wiring boards, coating and plating). This has led to a significant decrease in the volume of wastewater as well as a change in its quality. Moreover, intermediate treatment liquids stored in large tanks posed a major risk of leakage in the event of a contingency such as an earthquake. To eliminate this risk, we upgraded the facilities by modifying the structure to incorporate a breakwater to prevent any leaks of raw water, intermediary wastewater or chemicals used for treatment from the tanks. We further reduced the risk by adding a second monitoring system to ensure that water exceeding the permitted pH limit would not be discharged into the surrounding environment. The Hiratsuka site uses alkaline washing agents to degrease metallic materials but does not discharge industrial wastewater. The rinsing water used by the facility is reused by circulation through filters and ion-exchange resins, which reduces annual water use by approximately 40m3. While there are no facilities that discharge industrial wastewater at the Tohoku site, we have installed a pH monitor and emergency cutoff valve to address the risk of water being discharged from boilers and septic tanks in the event of malfunction, which could cause the pH level to exceed regulatory standards. Each site has developed response procedures to address the potential leakage of chemical substances due to human error or natural disaster. Regular equipment inspections and training are also conducted, and necessary revisions are made to prepare for unexpected accidents. Overall view of the industrial Neutralization segment of the industrial wastewater treatment facility wastewater treatment facility ▶Wastewater discharge from operations ▶工程系排水排出量 （m3） ■Tanasawa site ■Atsugi site 2,500 2,318 2,218 1,917 1,944 1,928 2,000 1,858 1,883 1,744 1,500 1,310 1,176 1,019 1,000 500 0 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 FY Anritsu CSR REPORT 2015 74 Goal Promoting Global 3 Environmental Protection Eco-Office, Eco-Factory ▶Atsugi Site: Laws and regulations of Atsugi City regarding discharge into public sewage systems Emission standard [mg/l] Measured value [mg/l] Item Voluntary control Regulation value Average Min. Max. value pH 5.0-9.0 5.7-8.7 7.4 6.6 8.1 SS 600 300 6.0 ＜ 1.0 16.0 BOD 600 300 16.3 0.5 80.0 ＜ 0.5 Normal hexane extracts 5 3 0.8 1 Mineral oil ＜ 0.5 Normal hexane extracts 30 18 0.8 1 Organic oil Iodine consumption 220 90 1.1 ＜ 1.0 1.3 Fluorine 8 4.8 0.6 0.2 1.1 Total cyanide 1 0.4 ＜ 0.01 ＜ 0.01 ＜ 0.01 Nitrogen 380 125 3.3 ＜ 0.1 12.1 Boron Chromium Dissolved iron 10 4 0.11 0.04 0.27 Copper 3 1.2 0.05 0.004 0.18 Zinc 2 1.2 0.07 0.033 0.13 Dissolved manganese Nickel 1 0.6 0.03 ＜ 0.001 0.05 Lead 0.1 0.06 0.02 ＜ 0.001 0.04 ※ Items subject to the laws and regulations but excluded from this list were not used as raw materials and therefore not measured. ▶Tohoku Site (Koriyama First Business Office): Fukushima Prefecture Government regulations Emission standard [mg/l] Measured value [mg/l] Item Voluntary control Regulation value Average Min. Max. value pH 5.8-8.6 6.0-8.4 6.9 6.7 7.4 SS 70 30 2.8 1.0 6.4 BOD 40 20 4.3 0.8 6.5 Dissolved iron 10 4 0.11 (*1) (*1) Below the detection Copper 2 0.8 (*1) (*1) limit [0.01mg/l] Zinc 2 1.2 0.05 (*1) (*1) Below the detection Nickel 2 0.8 (*1) (*1) limit [0.01mg/l] Below the detection Lead 0.1 0.08 (*1) (*1) limit [0.05mg/l] Number of colon 3000 2400 13.3 0 160 bacillus (piece/m3) ※ Items subject to the laws and regulations but excluded from this list were not used as raw materials and therefore not measured. *1 There is no max. or min. records as survey is conducted only once a year. Anritsu CSR REPORT 2015 75 Goal Promoting Global 3 Environmental Protection Eco-Office, Eco-Factory ▶Tohoku Site (Koriyama Second Business Office): Fukushima Prefecture Government regulations Emission standard [mg/l] Measured value [mg/l] Item Regulation value Voluntary control value Average Min. Max. pH 5.8-8.6 6.0-8.4 6.9 6.5 7.2 SS 70 30 2.2 1 4.7 BOD 40 20 3.3 1.2 6.6 Dissolved iron 10 4 0.08 (*1) (*1) Copper 2 0.8 Below the detection limit [0.01mg/l] (*1) (*1) Zinc 2 1.2 0.07 (*1) (*1) Nickel 2 0.8 Below the detection limit [0.01mg/l] (*1) (*1) Lead 0.1 0.08 Below the detection limit [0.05mg/l] (*1) (*1) Number of colon bacillus (piece/m3) 3000 2400 0 0 0 ※Items subject to the laws and regulations but excluded from this list were not used as raw materials and therefore not measured. ＊1 There is no max. or min. records as survey is conducted only once a year. Excel Environmental Data of Each Site Prevention of Air Pollution Having eliminated the coating process in 2000, no facility at the Atsugi site generates air pollution subject to legal regulations. The Tohoku site operates heavy oil boilers subject to the Air Pollution Control Law. The boilers are operated on a voluntary management standard to control air quality. No facility at the Hiratsuka site generates air pollution subject to legal regulations. ▶Tohoku Site (Koriyama First Business Office): Air Pollution Control Law Emission standard Item Measured value Regulation value Voluntary control value below the detection limit Smuts [g/m3N] 0.3 0.18 <(0.005mg/l) Sulfur oxide [m3N/h] 4.37 2.63 0.06 Nitrogen oxide [ppm] 180 170 100 Excel Environmental Data of Each Site Noise We are implementing a variety of efforts to detect abnormalities at an early stage, including a system of prior examination before introducing equipment, equipment inspections at the beginning of every operation and regular patrols on the premises. We also regularly monitor noise levels at borders every year. At the Hiratsuka site, a location with many types of Soundproofed room machining equipment, we are working to reduce risks by Exhaust vent with a noise reduction cover moving particularly noisy equipment to a soundproofed room and placing noise reducing covers over exhaust vents. Results show that measured noise levels not only meet legal standards but fall below our own voluntary standards as well. Anritsu CSR REPORT 2015 76 Goal Promoting Global 3 Environmental Protection Eco-Office, Eco-Factory ▶Atsugi site：Kanagawa Prefecture Government regulations Regulation value [dB] Voluntary control value [dB] Measured value Measured point [daytime] [daytime] [dB][daytime] At the eastern border line 70 68 66 At the western border line 70 68 58 At the southern border line 70 68 57 At the northern border line 70 68 64 ▶ Tohoku Site (Koriyama First Business Office): Fukushima Prefecture Government regulations Regulation value [dB] Voluntary control value [dB] Measured value Measured point [daytime] [daytime] [dB][daytime] At the eastern border line 75 73 42 At the western border line 75 73 50 At the southern border line 1 75 73 56 At the southern border line 2 75 73 50 ▶ Tohoku Site (Koriyama Second Business Office): Fukushima Prefecture Government regulations Regulation value [dB] Voluntary control value [dB] Measured value Measured point [daytime] [daytime] [dB][daytime] At the eastern border line 75 73 51 At the western border line1 75 73 47 At the western border line2 75 73 45 At the northern border line 75 73 46 ▶ Hiratsuka Site: Kanagawa Prefecture Government regulations Regulation value [dB] Voluntary control value [dB] Measured value Measured point [daytime] [daytime] [dB][daytime] At the eastern border line 65 64 57 At the western border line 65 64 59 At the southern border line 75 73 63 At the northern border line 75 73 52 Excel Environmental Data of Each Site Anritsu CSR REPORT 2015 77 Goal Promoting Global 3 Environmental Protection Eco-Office, Eco-Factory Chemical Substances Management Utilization of chemical substances by the Anritsu Group companies in Japan is determined by designating banned or restricted substances from the standpoints of environmental regulations, hazardousness, safety and health, and disaster prevention, and having expert evaluators with knowledge of each criterion conduct prior assessments. In addition, the amounts of chemical substances purchased, used and disposed of within a three-month period are entered into a chemical substances management system. We use this database to compile the amount of substances subject to the Pollutant Release and Transfer Register (PRTR) Law, calculate the total stored amount of hazardous materials as designated by the Fire Service Act, and monitor chemical substances designated by revisions in laws and regulations. We also consider replacing substances with safer alternatives as necessary. In fiscal 2013 we raised the efficiency of our chemical substances management operations by upgrading the chemical substances management system used for prior assessment and registration of the above-mentioned substances and for monitoring their use. We also sought to visualize our internal efforts in chemical substances management through measures such as expanding the checklist for environmental regulations related to the use of chemical substances. With respect to substances designated by the PRTR Law, the volume we handle at our sites changed significantly due to a revision of the law in 2010 that excluded from the list liquid bisphenol A epoxy resin, an ingredient used at the Atsugi site, while adding new ingredients, including methylnaphthalene, which is an additive agent, to heavy oil used as fuel at the Tohoku site. More than one ton of methylnaphthalene was handled at the Tohoku site in fiscal 2013 and reported accordingly. Because it is burned in a boiler, very little methylnaphthalene is externally released; nevertheless, we will reduce the amount we handle by reducing our use of heavy oil. Methylenebis (4,1-phenylene) diisocyanate, designated as a Type I chemical substance under the PRTR Law, is a substance that Anritsu uses in fairly large quantities. The substance is contained in the liquid concentrate required in the chemical reaction between two liquids that produces urethane foam, a shock-absorbing material for packaging. We have been reducing our use of this substance over the years by improving packaging methods and have begun working toward our new goal of completely discontinuing its use by fiscal 2017. Use Regulates Chemical Substances of Anritsu Group Class of 7 substances: CFC (Chlorofluorocarbons), halon, carbon tetrachloride, 1,1,1-trichloroethane, Banned substances HBFC (Hydrobromofluorocarbons), bromochloroethane, methyl bromide Class of 7 substances: HCFC (Hydrochlorofluorocarbons), trichloroethylene, tetrachloroethylene, Limited-use substances dichloromethane, HFC (Hydrofluorocarbons), PFC (Perfluorocarbons), ▶ Chemical ▶PRTR物質取扱量 Substances Management under PRTR Law （t） 10.14 ■Tohoku site 10 8 ■Hiratsuka site ■Tanasawa site 7.43 6 ■Atsugi site 4.81 4 2.55 2.60 2.48 2.27 2.33 2 1.62 0.51 0.70 0 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 FY Anritsu CSR REPORT 2015 78 Goal Promoting Global 3 Environmental Protection Eco-Office, Eco-Factory PCB Management At the Atsugi site, we tightly control condensers of electric devices, fluorescent ballasts and pressure sensitive copying paper that contain polychlorinated biphenyl (PCB) within the storage standards for specially controlled industrial waste. Storage status is reported annually to the prefecture under the Law concerning Special Measures for Promotion of Proper Treatment of PCB Waste. In 2006, analysis conducted while upgrading an extra high-voltage transformation installation identified a small amount of PCB in two large transformers. In the course of replacing transformers in 2010, we identified a small amount of PCB in the insulation oil of decrepit equipment and issued an additional notification in June 2011. In 2005 we filed an early request for the treatment of PCBs with the Japan Environmental Safety Corporation, an interim storage and environmental safety company, and are currently awaiting our turn for the treatment. We are also considering early treatment of waste contaminated with trace amounts of PCB in view of the recent rise in the number of licensed processing companies. Waste Reduction The Anritsu Group in Japan has achieved and maintained zero emissions* since 2004 by promoting 3R activities and separation of waste in our offices and production lines. At the Atsugi site, we began separating paper containers used for food in fiscal 2013, and have sought to enhance the quality of our recycling activities by shifting from thermal recycling to material recycling. In fiscal 2014 we reduced approximately 4.3 tons of raw garbage generated by the employee cafeteria. In future we will continue our efforts to reduce waste. ＊ Zero emissions: Recycling all waste. Anritsu defines this as achieving a final landfill disposal rate of less than 0.5%. ▶The ▶廃棄物排出量 amount （国内アンリツグループ） of waste by type (Group companies in Japan) （t） 300 ■General waste ■Industrial waste 200 191 189 165 161 165 137 115 116 115 125 116 100 0 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 FY ● Examples of separate collection of waste By thorough classification collection, we are working to reduce waste. Certified Business Site Promoting Environmental Consideration The headquarters (Atsugi site) of Anritsu Corporation, located in Kanagawa Prefecture, is certified and registered both as a business site practicing environmental management and as a business site promoting environmental consideration.* ＊ Kanagawa Prefecture recognizes companies that meet its requirements for reducing environmental impact, properly controlling chemical substances and establishing organizational frameworks for the environment, and registers them as certified business sites that promote environmental considerations. Anritsu CSR REPORT 2015 79 Goal Promoting Global 3 Environmental Protection Eco-Office, Eco-Factory Column Upgrading and Consolidating Environmental Preservation Facilities The Atsugi site is executing a scrap-and-build program based on the concept of creating advanced and reliable infrastructure for the next generation. As part of the program, we completed a three-year plan for upgrading and consolidating aging environmental preservation facilities (an industrial wastewater treatment facility, solid waste yard and hazardous materials warehouse) in fiscal 2014. Under the plan, we planned first to conduct soil analysis in the second half of fiscal 2011 and then in fiscal 2013 replace the old wastewater treatment facility, which had been Yoshiro Kenmochi necessary for treating large volumes of industrial wastewater containing heavy metals Environment Team, Facility when we were coating, plating and manufacturing print wiring boards, with a compact, Management Center, Facility Management Group, upgraded facility suitable to the current volume and quality of wastewater. We intended Anritsu Kousan Co., Ltd. to use the vacant lot created as a result to consolidate environmental preservation facilities that had been dispersed across the site in fiscal 2014 by building a new solid waste yard and a hazardous materials warehouse, thereby raising the efficiency of operations. While we naturally sought to ensure workability in implementing the plan, we also made a committed effort to counter the risks of leakage and contamination, with due consideration for environmental needs. With regard to the industrial wastewater treatment facility, we sought to reduce environmental contamination risks by incorporating a leakage detection system for intermediate wastewater and chemical agents, installing breakwaters that could hold the entire volume in the event of leakage, and introducing a dual monitoring mechanism to prevent the discharge of wastewater exceeding the permi tted pH limit. At the waste yard we installed LED lighting and outdoor lights with luminance sensors and also sought to save energy by fitting ventilation windows that let in natural light. Moreover, we used rainwater permeating asphalt as a measure against groundwater depletion and heavy rainfall. In extra space created through the compact design of the facilities, we planted trees to enhance the greening ratio. For the industrial wastewater treatment facility, although the initial going was tough, as when we encountered unexpected difficulties during the test operation, we were able to complete the plan without running into any major issues in fiscal 2014. Each day brings new developments in the environmental area. I intend to keep up with the rapid changes by building on this experience as I continue my pursuit of environmental preservation. Fiscal 2012 Fiscal 2013 Fiscal 2014 Old industrial wastewater treatment Construction of a new industrial Construction of a new solid waste yard facility w a s t e w a t e r t re a t m e n t f a c i l i t y a n d and hazardous materials warehouse disassembly of an old facility Anritsu CSR REPORT 2015 80 Goal Promoting Global 3 Environmental Protection Eco-Office, Eco-Factory Environmental Considerations in Packaging The Anritsu Group in Japan seeks to reduce the volume of packaging materials and promotes the use of packaging that is free of hazardous substances. Eco-Logistics ● Overview of Eco-Logistics Delivery The carrier takes out the product from a returnable box and delivers it to the place customer has designated. After delivery, the returnable box is brought back by the carrier. Pick up The carrier arrives at the customer’s location with packaging materials and picks up the product after packaging. Response to carrier We maintain transport quality by conducting in-depth discussions between carrier and Anritsu to build a safety system on transport. ● Comparison of conventional cardboard packaging with Eco-Logistics Conventional cardboard packaging Eco-Logistics Customer needs to dispose a lot of packaging materials. Customer needs to dispose only a few packaging materials. At delivery -A large amount of waste. -Small amount of waste. -Cost of waste disposal will be expensive. -Enable to reduce the cost of waste disposal. Customers package by themselves with the packaging materials Carrier picks up the product after wrapping it with their packaging sent by Anritsu. materials. At pick up -Customer's product packaging operation occurs. -Customer's product packaging operation becomes unnecessary. -New packaging materials are required. = Waste occurs. -New packaging materials are unnecessary. = Waste reduction. ● An example of delivery The product is first covered with Carrier removes the product from the The product and attached equipment box polyethylene bag to prevent from returnable box. are delivered to customer, covered with scratches and dust, and then packaged in polyethylene bag for protection. returnable box. Invoice is attached to the product. The product and attached equipment box After delivery, carrier brings back the are packaged as in the left picture. returnable box and packaging materials. ● Reduction of packaging material waste. （％） 100 100 For returnable box, customer only needs to dispose the polyethylene bag that covers the product. Reduced by Comparing the traditional cardboard packaging with returnable containers, 50 94% waste emissions by packaging materials for customer will be greatly improved, which is about 94% reduction by weight. 6 0 (Assuming that returnable box is used 20 times) Cardboard Ecopackaging Logistics Anritsu CSR REPORT 2015 81 Goal Promoting Global 3 Environmental Protection Eco-Office, Eco-Factory Environmentally Conscious Export Packaging Anritsu uses environmentally conscious export packaging that does not involve urethane foam, which is produced by using a liquid concentrate containing Methylenebis (4,1-phenylene) diisocyanate, designated as a Type I chemical substance under the PRTR Law. The packaging is made using a shock-absorbing method with a structural assembly of cardboard and an efficient method for housing standard attachments and optional parts. Although 40% smaller than conventional packaging, it provides the same level of protection for products against vibration and shock during transport. ❶Reducing package size ❷New cardboard package without urethane foam as a shock-absorbing material The new cardboard package is smaller than the Main body of measuring Using a structural assembly of cardboard instrument previous package. to absorb shock Standard attachments and optional parts Making effective use of space between the Left: New cardboard package outer packaging New package has been reduced Right: Previous package with urethane foam as a shockand shock in size by 40% compared to the absorbing material absorbers to house standard previous package and efficiently attachments and houses the main body of the optional parts measuring instrument, standard attachments and optional parts. Recycling Used Products Anritsu led the measuring instrument industry in establishing the Recycling Center at Anritsu Kousan Co., Ltd., in 2000. Anritsu Kousan obtained a license to engage in the industrial waste disposal business in September 2002 and started operating in fiscal 2003. In fiscal 2014, the center received 123 tons of used products and equipment generated by the Anritsu Group and recycled nearly 100% of the waste after disassembling and sorting. The Recycling Center promotes the refurbishment of used products. Refurbished measuring instruments are products used for demonstration. Although these products are recycled, they are highly reliable after being reconditioned and calibrated by Anritsu and are provided with a one-year guarantee. Anritsu Kousan, acting as a sales agent, sells the products to universities and other educational institutions in Japan, thus extending the lives of the products. ▶ Recycling System for Used Products Finite resources Material Material recycling Chemical recycling Anritsu Group Thermal recycling Recycling Center Disassembly Design/production Disposal（Landfill） Selection Sales Zero emission Customers Anritsu CSR REPORT 2015 82 Goal Promoting Global 3 Environmental Protection Eco-Office, Eco ProductsEco-Factory Eco Products Eco Products Development Anritsu is promoting environmental efforts across the product life cycle, from parts and materials procurement and manufacturing to shipment, customer use, recycling and disposal. We conduct product assessments to check and assess the effects of environmental impact reduction from the early design stage of every product’s development, comply with environmental regulations around the world and vigorously provide energyand resource-saving products and products that do not contain hazardous substances as a key aspect of our environmental management. Complying with Product Environmental Regulations The European Union (EU) enacted the WEEE Directive in 2005, the RoHS Directive in 2006, the REACH regulations in 2007 and the ErP Directive in 2009. Environmental regulation of products centered on the EU has been expanding throughout the world. Anritsu has been responding promptly to these product environmental regulations. Information is shared with Group companies outside Japan through forums such as the Global Environment Management Meeting to develop a unified Group response. Global Product Assessment Implementation Guidelines The development of environmentally conscious products has been conducted separately from products assessments in Anritsu Group companies in Japan and as DfE (Design for Environment) in Anritsu Company (U.S.A.). To ensure that Anritsu Group companies around the world adhere to the same standards for developing environmental products, we unified our product assessment standards into the Global Product Assessment Implementation Guidelines in fiscal 2014. ● Operational Procedure Global product assessments are conducted in three stages that must be concluded prior to commercialization: Product Assessment I (target setting), in which targets for the product development process are clarified; Product Assessment II (design review), in which progress on attaining the targets is reviewed; and Product Assessment III (evaluations), in which a final assessment on the product is conducted. During Product Assessment III, a third-party evaluation is conducted by the Quality Management Department and other entities. Development proposal Develpoment decision Detailed design Test production Commercialization Basic design Evaluation Utilization Recycling Product assessment Ⅰ Recycling Center (target setting stage) Customers Product assessment Ⅱ Technology (design review stage) development division Product assessment Ⅲ (Anritsu Kousan Co., Ltd.) Quality control division (evaluation stage) ※Follow-ups are conducted as needed at each stage of product assessment. * Follow-ups are conducted as needed at each stage of product assessment. Anritsu CSR REPORT 2015 83 Goal Promoting Global 3 Environmental Protection Eco-Office, Eco ProductsEco-Factory ● Evaluation Items Evaluation items in the global product assessment cover basic factors such as improvements in volume, mass and power consumption against a reference product. Additional items for evaluation include resource savings and the reduction of harmful substances and overall environmental impact throughout production, physical distribution, use and disposal. A reference product is an existing product that is similar in function and performance to the product being assessed. ・Reduced volume and mass ・Reduction of consumable supplies Resource saving; Reduced load ・Adoption of reusable or recyclable components ・Reduction of sur face treatment during manufacturing ・Expanded functionality and longer operating life ・Reduction of difficult-to-process materials ・Use of recycled paper for operation manuals ・Elimination of banned substances in products ・Compliance with RoHS Directive ・Reduction of substances subject to RoHS Directive ・Reduction of other harmful substances Reduced harmful substances Reduced load in physical ・Reduction of packing materials ・Ease of transport af ter collection distribution ・Use of recycled paper for packing materials ・Reduced power consumption during operation ・Designed to lower power consumption ・Inclusion of a standby mode ・Clear instructions on power-saving functions Reduced load during use ・Fewer parts ・Reduced variety of materials and use of common materials ・Reduced use of difficult-to-recycle materials ・Recycle labeling on batteries ・Designed for easy dismantling and disassembly ・Response to WEEE Directive Reduced load at time of disposal ・Identification of the material on resin components ・Response to Chinese RoHS Environmentally Conscious Product Program ● Environmentally Conscious Products Anritsu Group certifies the Excellent Eco Product and Eco Product as environmentally conscious products based on the results of global product assessment. ●Excellent Eco Product: Conscious Products Product that meets Excellent Eco Product requirements Environmentally Excellent Eco Product ●Eco Product: Eco Product Product that meets Eco Product requirements Assessed Product ●Assessed Product: Product that meets Assessed Product requirements ● Major Environmentally Conscious Criteria for Excellent Eco Products ●Top industry ranking for environmentally conscious properties ●Environmental information ready for disclosure ●CO 2 emission evaluated by Life Cycle Assessment (LCA)* ●Environmental management system in place at the relevant business entity and main production site. *Life Cycle Assessment: method for quantitatively assessing environmental impact across the entire life cycle of a product, encompassing the extraction of raw materials, manufacturing, use, collection and disposal. For Excellent Eco Product, “Excellent Eco Product ” mark and environmental information of the product is described in the catalog and elsewhere. The mark is categorized as Type II labeling (self-declared environmental claims) under the international standard ISO 14021. URL Excellent Eco Product Anritsu CSR REPORT 2015 84 Goal Promoting Global 3 Environmental Protection Eco-Office, Eco ProductsEco-Factory Excellent Eco-Products Recognized in Fiscal 2014 MT1000A Network Master Pro MT1100A Network Master Flex Osamu Yamashita Tomohiro Ito Development Support Division, R&D Headquarters, No. 1 Product Development Division, R&D Headquarters, Anritsu Corporation Anritsu Corporation The MT1000A Network Master Pro enables network operators to efficiently conduct network OTN installation and maintenance, optimization and troubleshooting for each company, and the MT1100A Network Master Flex allows for efficient transport testing for 1.5 Mbps to 100 Gbps networks and transport devices during R&D, manufacturing, OTN installation and maintenance. Both products support multiple communications protocols. Energy conservation at network OTN installation and maintenance sites is an essential requirement made possible by compact, lightweight, battery-powered devices with handheld portability, while R&D sites require multiple ports and independent control by multiple customers. MT1000A is a portable all-in-one field transport tester that meets the requirements of OTN installation and maintenance while providing two ports that simultaneously support all communications protocols of any product. MT1100A is a portable all-in-one transport tester that meets the requirements of OTN installation and maintenance as well as R&D while providing four ports that simultaneously support all communications protocols used in today’s converged telecom network. We reduced the number of reinforcing parts for MT1000A by using lightweight molded parts for its casing and adopting a honeycomb internal structure. We were able to create a compact, lightweight design with low power consumption based on new FPGA* technology, which allowed us to use a single FPGA where two units had been used to install two ports independently in conventional products. As a result, we reduced volume by 85%, mass by 84% and power consumption by 48% compared to a conventional product. For MT1100A, we decided on a structure that would separate the functions into modules for control, testing and power supply, which would allow customers to couple only the required modules. By adopting this coupling structure, we could eliminate unused space created in slot-type casing structures when only a few modules are used. In addition, we used the latest FPGA to concentrate large circuits and mount two ports on a single module to achieve a compact, lightweight design and low power consumption. As a result, we reduced volume by 72%, mass by 57% and power consumption by 33% compared to a conventional product. *FPGA: Field Programmable Gate Array. An electronic component that allows the designer to freely structure the circuitry. （%） （%） （%） consumption Volume Mass Power Volume Mass Power (%) (%) (%) consumption 100 100 100 100 100 100 Reduced by Reduced by Reduced by Reduced by Reduced by Reduced by 85% 84% 48% 72% 57% 33% 50 50 50 50 50 50 0 0 0 0 0 0 Reference MT1000A Reference MT1000A Reference MT1000A Reference MT1100A Reference MT1100A Reference MT1100A product product product product product product Anritsu CSR REPORT 2015 85 Goal Promoting Global 3 Environmental Protection Eco-Office, Eco ProductsEco-Factory Eco-Products Recognized in Fiscal 2014 NA2000 Series Industrial Ethernet Switch The NA2000 Series Industrial Ethernet Switch features the environmental durability and excellent reliability required by the diverse installation environments of social infrastructure systems. As the high-end model of the EC2060 Series high-reliability compact switch, optimal for fiber optic networks for roads and rivers, the NA2000 Series is a ventless, sealed product with anti-corrosive gas features. While conventional products use fans to dissipate heat, the structural design of this product dissipates heat from the surface of the casing without a fan. Its fanless structure contributes to its compact design and increases energy performance by eliminating the need for a fan power source Masanao Kobayashi while also reducing failure factors and noise. By using a high-efficiency compact power source and Development Department, Anritsu Networks Co., Ltd. changing the casing material from iron and stainless steel to aluminum, we reduced volume by 76%, mass by 66% and power consumption by 64% compared to a conventional product. The product has a height and width of 42 mm and 210 mm, respectively, allowing for the installation of two units inside the 1U space (1.75 inches = 44.45 cm) of a standard 19-inch rack. Volume Mass Power （%） （%） （%） consumption 100 100 100 Reduced by Reduced by Reduced by 76% 66% 64% 50 50 50 0 0 0 Reference NA2000 Reference NA2000 Reference NA2000 product product product CO 2 Emissions across Product Life Cycles The Anritsu Group in Japan expanded its LCA, previously applied only to some products, to all of its products beginning in fiscal 2013, and is aware of CO2 emissions at each stage of the product life cycle. ▶CO 2 Emissions and Breakdown across the Life Cycle of Product Groups 製品ライフサイクルにおけるCO2排出量 ■Manufacturing ■Distribution ■Use ■Disposal Desktop measuring instruments 1,910kg-CO2 Handheld measuring instruments 50kg-CO2 Automatic checkers 1,271kg-CO2 X-ray inspection systems 6,060kg-CO2 Metal detectors 1,639kg-CO2 Total CO 2 Emissions by IT equipment 1,743kg-CO2 Product Group (average) 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100 (%) Anritsu CSR REPORT 2015 86 Goal Promoting Global 3 Environmental Protection Eco-Office, Eco ProductsEco-Factory Promotion of Supply Chain Management The provision of environmentally conscious products requires the use of parts and materials that reduce environmental impact. The Anritsu Group in Japan upholds environmentally conscious supply chain management through green procurement and conducts research on the chemical substances in the parts it purchases, in accordance with the Basic Rules of Procurement. Green Procurement Anritsu undertakes green procurement in accordance with its Green Procurement Guidelines established in fiscal 1999 by preferentially procuring environmentally conscious parts and materials. Since Anritsu Corporation’s environmental partner company certification system was launched in 2001, the company has been evaluating the status of Anritsu suppliers’ environmental management systems (EMS) and product assessment procedures by ranking them at three levels and encouraging the environmental initiatives of suppliers. In fiscal 2009, we incorporated into the system a means for assessing the management status of chemical substances in products. We have also provided suppliers with check sheets and conducted factory audits to strengthen the reliability of information on Green Procurement Guidelines chemical substances in products. In fiscal 2011, we introduced the concept of preserving biodiversity to our activities and began implementing initiatives to deepen supplier understanding of biodiversity preservation. As of fiscal 2014, 173 suppliers have been certified as environmental partners. PDF Green Procurement Guidelines Management of Chemical Substances Contained in Products Ensuring no harmful substances are in our products requires proper and continuing chemical substance management by suppliers and companies further upstream. Anritsu seeks to procure appropriate parts and materials by investigating chemical substances contained in purchased goods in accordance with our Green Procurement Guidelines and entering the results into a database. Anritsu CSR REPORT 2015 87 Goal 3 地球環境保護の推進 Promoting Global アンリツグループ環境負荷マスバランス Group Environmental Impact Data Environmental Protection Group Environmental Impac t Data＊1 Anritsu quantifies its environmental impact and environmental protection activities in monetary and physical units in order to assess and upgrade the efficiency of these activities. We disclose the results to enable our stakeholders to gain a deeper understanding of our environmental actions. The environmental impact mass balance of the Anritsu Group’s global business activities is summarized below. Percentage changes from fiscal year 2012 are in parentheses. INPUT OUTPUT ＣＯ２ ＊2 Electricity Carbon dioxide generated as a Electric power purchased from 29,010.2 MWh result of using electricity, gas and power companies for use at (1.6%) fuels (CO2 emission volume was 16,052.9 t manufacturing sites and calculated using the conversion offices factor defined in fiscal 2010 by the (0.7%) Federation of Electric Power Companies of Japan) Gas 71,740.5 ｍ ３ ＮＯＸ 563.0 kg City gas, LPG and natural gas used as energy (-2.3%) Nitrogen oxides generated as a result of using gas and fuels (-46.6%) Group Environmental Impact Data SＯＸ 477.6 ｋℓ Fuels 153.9 kg Sulfuric oxides generated as a Heavy oil and light oil used as (-6.2%) result of using gas and fuels (-60.1%) energy Wastewater 79,181.1 ｍ ３ District heating 354.0 MWh Wastewater discharged from (-5.7%) manufacturing sites and Heating generated by hot offices water and supplied to the (-9.7%) region (Denmark) BOD 168.2 kg Biochemical oxygen demand (-35.8%) Water 94,931.2 ｍ ３ Waste Tap water and groundwater (excluding recycled water) (-7.8%) Municipal waste in Japan Waste other than industrial waste that 49.3 t is generated as a result of business (-16.7%) activities (such as kitchen waste, waste Chemical substances paper and waste wood) CO2,HFC,PFC,SF6,N2O, CH4 5.3 kg (-50.5%) Industrial waste in Japan Waste generated as a result of business activities and regulated by the Waste 66.7 t Disposal and Public Cleaning (0.9%) Chemical substances Law, such as sludge, waste plastics, waste acid and waste Chemical substances that are 15.9 t alkali regulated by laws in Japan (toxic, deleterious and hazadous (-5.2%) substances, organic solvents, and specified chemical substances) Waste outside Japan 174.1 t All waste generated by (-31.1%) business activities Paper 41.8 t Copy paper used at factories and offices (-6.8%) Recycling 77.9% Packaging Material Wrapping, packing and 349.5 t packaging material for (4.4%) products and packaging material for transportation Excel Detailed Information *1 Environmental impact expressed in the form of a balance sheet in which substances entering the company are identified and listed by name and mass in one column and substances and mass exiting the company are identified and listed in the other column to more clearly display the relationship between business activities and environmental impact. *2 Calculations for energy sources other than electricity for sites both in and outside Japan are based on the emission factor under the Act on Promotion of Global Warming Countermeasures, as revised March 29, 2006. Calculation of CO2 emission volume from electricity use in the United States is based on the emission factor of 0.285, while CO2 emission volume from electricity use in regions other than the United States is based on the emission factor provided by the Federation of Electric Power Companies of Japan (actual figure for fiscal 2013: 0.57). Anritsu CSR REPORT 2015 88 Goal Promoting Global 3 Environmental Protection Environmental Accounting Environmental Accounting Environmental Accounting (fiscal 2014) In fiscal 2014, investment into environmental conservation increased by approximately 2.4 times compared to the previous fiscal year, due to upgrades in air conditioning, heat insulation work on buildings and construction of the new Global Headquarters Building. Costs increased by 13% due to higher depreciation costs related to capital investments. Economic impact decreased by 46% due to revising the benchmark year from fiscal 2004 to fiscal 2012 in order to better reflect the results of Cool Biz and Warm Biz initiatives (economic impact decreased by approximately 9%, based on the conventional comparison with fiscal 2004). ●Aggregate scope：Anritsu Corp. and Group Companies in Japan ●Eco Product：April 1, 2014 to March 31, 2015 Figures in brackets are the results from FY 2013 Environmental conservation cost Benefits Investment Cost Economic benefits Environmental impact Category Breakdown (millions of yen) (millions of yen) (millions of yen) reduction benefits Pollution prevention cost 1.4 [3.30] 11.7 [22.0] 146.1[149.4] Global environmental Prevention of global 369（t-CO2） ［3,764（t-CO2）］ 49.6 [18.8] 30.0 [16.9] 21.4 [164.6] conservation cost warming Business area cost Resource recycling/ Reduced due to sale 5.2 80.0 [59.1] 0.0[0.0] utilization activities of valuable Resource circulation cost resources Waste disposal cost 51.4 [48.3] 22.0 [27.0] 219（t） Green purchasing/procurement cost 18.0[23.4] Upstream/downstream 1,707（t-CO2）＊1 59.9 [56.6]＊1 ［1,254（t-CO2） ］ Design of environmentally conscious products 26.8 [20.2] cost Recycling and treatment of products, containers andpackaging 0.0 [0.0] Environmental education/training 20.0 [20.3] 0.0 [3.7] Operation and maintenance of EMS and internal audit 53.2 [45.2] 0.0 [3.1] Administration cost Environmental load monitoring and measurement cost 0.0 [0.8] 19.3 [19.2] 0.0 [1.4] Personnel expenses for environmental management 10.7 [6.2] 0.0 [0.0] Greening and upkeep of greenery 8.4 [9.3] 0.0 [0.0] Support for community groups,environmental 1.3 [1.2] 0.0 [0.0] Social activity cost conservation bodies, etc. Disclosure of information 10.3 [9.8] 0.0 [0.0] R&D cost Research and development to reduce environmental impacts 0.1 [0.1] 0.4 [0.0] Environmental remediation cost Cost incurred for recovery from environmental degradation 0.0 [0.0] 0.0 [0.0] Total 56.2 [22.9] 341.2 [301.3] 249.4 [405.9]＊2 Total after the removal of upstream/downstream cost 189.5 [349.3]＊3 Percentage change from FY2013 to FY 2014 144.9% 13.2% -45.8% *1 Estimated environmental impact reduction benefits when products are in use. Reduction of electric power: 2,994MWh [2,574 MWh] *2 Including estimated benefits *3 Excluding estimated benefits The Anritsu Group is gradually switching to energy-saving equipment as part of its ongoing effort to reduce greenhouse gases. Of particular note is our Global Headquarters Building, completed in March 2015, which was entirely designed with consideration for the environment, including a highly insulated building structure, high-efficiency air conditioning, LED lighting and solar power generators. The building is expected to have a significant impact on reducing greenhouse gases. 【Atsugi site: upgraded air conditioners, conducted insulation work for buildings, completed the Global Headquarters Building.】 ●Cost: 424.3 million yen ●Reduction in CO2 emissions: 1,326 t-CO2 /year 【Tohoku site: upgraded air conditioners, shifted to Hf inverter fluorescent lighting】 ●Cost: 71.9 million yen ●Reduction in CO2emissions: 78 t-CO2/year Anritsu CSR REPORT 2015 Global headquarters Building high-efficiency air conditioning 89 Goal Promoting Global 3 Environmental Protection History of Anritsu's Environmental Management Activities History of Anritsu's Environmental Management Activities 2014 Completed the new, environmentally conscious Global Headquarters Building. Certified and registered as an “Environmentally conscious Business Site” under the Kanagawa Prefectural Ordinance on Conservation 2013 of Living Environment (Atsugi site). Established an environmentally conscious factory, the Koriyama Second Business Office. Ceased operations at the Tanasawa site due to the consolidation of Anritsu Device Co., Ltd. operations at the Atsugi site. 2012 Created the new Hiratsuka site following the opening of a new plant by AT Techmac Co., Ltd. (Hiratsuka City, Kanagawa Prefecture). 2011 Contributed to local communities through activities such as the Radiation Seminars for PTAs in Koriyama City, Fukushima Prefecture. Received the Kanagawa Prefecture award for meritorious service in environmental improvement (for promoting a recycling-oriented 2010 society) as a company from the Governor of Kanagawa Prefecture. 2009 Joined the promotion partners for Nippon Keidanren's Declaration of Biodiversity. 2008 Expanded the scope of ISO14001 certification to the Anritsu business sites. Wins the Kanagawa Global Environment Award 2007. 2007 Anritsu Company (USA) aquired ISO14001 certification. Wins President Award from the Atsugi Area Waste Renewal Conference. 2006 Anritsu Company (USA) wins Excellence Award for 2006 from Morgan Hill, California. Tohoku Anritsu Co., Ltd. wins an excellence award for the business division in a zero emission activity proposals contest sponsored by 2005 the Fukushima Prefectural Government. The first Global Environment Management Meeting is held at Anritsu Ltd. (UK). Revised Anritsu Group Green Procurement Guidelines . 2004 Anritsu group Companies in Atsugi, Tanasawa, and Tohoku sites achieved zero emission. 2003 Integrated ISO14001 certification to include Anritsu group companies in Atsugi, Tanasawa, and Tohoku sites. Organized Environment Promotion Center unified disparate environment-related departments. 2002 Expanded ISO14001 certification to include Tanasawa Site and Anritsu group in the Atsugi area. Acquired the Industrial Waste Disposal Contractor License for Recycling Center in Japan. Anritsu Limited (U.K.) acquired ISO14001 certification. 2000 Established the Anritsu Eco-Product system. Established the Recycling Center. Published Anritsu Green Procurement Guidelines for product development . 1999 Tohoku Anritsu Co., Ltd. acquired ISO14001 certification. Acquired ISO14001 certification for Atsugi Site (Japan). Atsugi site was commended by the Manager of the Kanto International Trade and Industry Bureau as an excellent 'green' factory. 1998 Organized the Environmental Engineering Group in the Technology Division. Organized the Lead-free Soldering Committee. 1997 Established Anritsu's environmental policy. Joined the Green Purchasing Network . 1996 Established the Anritsu Environment Manual. Decommissioned the facilities specified in the Air Pollution Control Act (kerosene boilers) at Atsugi Site. 1995 Received the Atsugi Site Waste Renewal Conference Chairman's Award. Reorganized the ZP Committee at Atsugi Site into the Environment Management Committee. 1994 Organized the Product Assessment Committee. Ended use of all ozone-depleting substances (except refrigerants and fire extinguishing chemicals) companywide. Organized the Environment Management Committee. Made adjustments to comply with statutory nickel-cadmium regulations. 1993 Established an environmental principle and environment management system regulations. Investigated flame retardant bromic substances and disposal methods. Organized the Energy Reduction Subcommittee. 1992 Received the Atsugi Site Waste Renewal Conference Chairman's Award. 1991 Atsugi Site received the Japan Greening Center President's Award. Started centralized purchase and distribution of chemical substances. 1990 Organized the Environment Management Section within the General Affairs Department at Atsugi Site. 1987 Constructed elevated pipelines system of inorganic wastewater processing at Atsugi Site. 1981 Atsugi Site received an Excellent Environment Preservation Award from the Kanagawa Prefecture Central Area Administration Center. 1980 Atsugi Site was commended as a Kanagawa Prefecture 'green' model factory. Atsugi Site was commended by the Kanagawa Environmental Conservation Association for its excellent environmental conservation 1979 practices. 1978 Connected waste water other than rain water to the public sewage system at Atsugi Site. 1974 Introduced an activated sludge processing facility as the kitchen drain water processing. 1970 Established the Zero Pollution (ZP) Committee at Atsugi Site. 1962 Constructed a wastewater treatment facility after opening a chemical engineering plant at Atsugi Site. Anritsu CSR REPORT 2015 90 Goal 4 Promoting Communication Communication with Stakeholders The goal for A nri t su e s t abli s h e s p ar tn e r s hip s b y p ro a c ti vel y di s clo sin g info rma tio n an d dialo gin g w i th Anritsu stakeholders throughout its business activities. The goal for Every employee develops a sense of mutual understanding with stakeholders by listening to their employees expectations and actively communicating with them. Appreciation Anritsu gains a solid reputation and trust by communicating a true image of itself to stakeholders. by society Communication with Stakeholders Anritsu establishes partnerships by pro-actively disclosing information and dialoguing with stakeholders throughout its business activities. With Customers With NGOs With National and NPOs and Local Governments Goal 1 Contributing to Build a Safe, Secure, and Comfortable Society With With Suppliers Shareholders and Partners Goal 2 Goal 3 and Investors Maintaining Harmony Promoting Global with the Global Environmental Socio-Economy Protection Goal 4 For the Global Promoting Communications With Environment Employees and Nature Conservation 地域社会 With Local Communities との対話 Customers We participate in trade shows in order to introduce Anritsu products to our customers and many other stakeholders. Interpack Interop2014 Wireless Technology Park Anritsu CSR REPORT 2015 91 Goal 4 Promoting Communication Commuunication with Stakeholdes ● Mobile World Congress 2015 The Mobile World Congress 2015 in Barcelona, Spain, is the world’s largest trade show for wireless communication. During the event, which attracted around 93,000 visitors from 200 countries, we showcased our cuttingedge technology with an exhibit of the latest LTE-Advanced solutions and a connectivity demonstration between an in-vehicle chip, in response to growing interest in the automotive market. We will continue contributing to the development of mobile broadband Mobile World Congress 2015 services by remaining the first to provide the most advanced technologies. ● OFC 2015 We participated in OFC 2015, held in March 2015 in Los Angeles, United States, by exhibiting measurement solutions that serve as the backbone of 100 Gbps and 400 Gbps high-speed communications. The development of mobile broadband services and IoT is expected to spur an even more dramatic rise in data traffic. Moreover, Anritsu is contributing to the construction of wired communications systems, including submarine cables between Japan and the United States, as well as inter-city networks in various OFC 2015 countries. Our MP1800A Signal Quality Analyzer and the MT1100A/MT1000A Network Master Series received Lightwave Innovation Awards, which recognize superior products. ● FOOMA JAPAN 2014 International Food Industry Trade Show About 2,300 visitors visited the Anritsu booth at FOOMA JAPAN 2014, where we exhibited products that contribute to food safety and security. We also set up a mini seminar area for a basic-level session, “Inspection Systems on the Food Production Line—Weight and Contaminant Inspection,” and an intermediate-level session, “Inspection Systems Changing Food Defense.” For those interested in metal inspections, we introduced critical control point management using PITT personal authentication and bar code readers, The Anritsu booth attracted many visitors as well as high-security inspection systems that integrate contaminant and mass inspections with camera surveillance. Visitors were impressed with the opportunity to experience the operating inspection equipment first-hand. Anritsu CSR REPORT 2015 92 Goal 4 Promoting Communication Shareholders and Investors Shareholders and Investors We are proactively disclosing information and encouraging interactive communication to build an important relationship with shareholders and investors and applying their feedback to improve our business and IR activities. Disclosure Policy Anritsu will disclose accurate information at any time to every stakeholders with good faith and positive attitude by observing the related laws. Action policy 1. Anritsu will disclose accurate information ・in clear and plain speech ・actively with timely and promptness; and ・broadly with equality 2. Anritsu will place a strict control on information management and strive to prevent insider trading. System for Investor Relation Activities Anritsu seeks to obtain an appropriate assessment of its corporate value through communication with shareholders and investors while striving to achieve higher shareholder satisfaction by enhancing corporate value and delivering returns to shareholders. To this end, we carry out IR activities under the leadership of the IR Department. Comments by shareholders and investors are shared with our Information Disclosure Committee, which includes members of management, and at the IR Promotion Meeting, along with information on the participation of those responsible for IR activities in the Management Strategy Center, Accounting and Control Department and Legal Department. The feedback is also used for improving information disclosure and business activities. Recognition by External Organizations Anritsu has been selected for the FTSE4Good Index Series by the U.K.-based FTSE Group, a global SRI fund, and is among the 150 publicly listed in MS-SRI, Morningstar Japan K.K.’s socially responsible investment index. We will continue to disclose information to stakeholders and sincerely respond to requests and issues toward further enhancing corporate value. Anritsu CSR REPORT 2015 93 Goal 4 Promoting Communication Shareholders and Investors Business Partners Activities from Fiscal 2014 to the First Quarter of Fiscal 2015 Since Anritsu Corporation conducts business worldwide that does not come into direct contact with general consumers, we think it is very important to inform our shareholders as faithfully as possible of our business structure, framework for generating profits and other factors that affect our business results. Our ongoing activities include quarterly results briefings; individual meetings with international institutional investors; roundtable conferences for shareholders after our general shareholders’ meeting; annual reports, business reports and other publications; disclosure of information and shareholder/investor questionnaires on our website; and posting of IR information on external financial information sites. From fiscal 2014 to May 2015, we disclosed information mainly through quarterly financial reports and progress reports on our mid-term business plan. To expand our shareholder base we actively communicated with a broad range of investors by conducting overseas IR activities, holding briefings for individual investors, and participating in IR forums. We also enhanced the transparency of our information disclosure by publishing an annual report on a website dedicated to IR. We have published the integrated report in place of the annual report in 2015 Results briefing for institutional investors Annual report 2015 URL Anritsu report 2015 Shareholder Composition (as of March 31, 2015) Please refer to the Stock, Bonds and Ratings page on our corporate website. URL Business Par tners Strengthening trust with business partners is vital to achieving mutual growth. We value forging even stronger partnerships involving the participation of our business partners in meeting society’s expectations and needs through the operations of the entire supply chain. Business Partner Gathering On January 21, 2015, we hosted a business partner gathering which drew 287 representatives of 142 Anritsu business partners (127 Japanese companies and 15 overseas companies). We explained how the development of mobile broadband services is driving Anritsu’s growth by presenting opportunities in our measurement business and the related strategies we have been implementing. We also laid out our procurement guidelines and shared our vision with business partners. Our most valued business partners were awarded Business Partner Gathering with a certificate of gratitude, a plaque and commemorative gifts. In addition, we announced this year’s symbolic Chinese character, shin (new), which was selected from among employee recommendations. Anritsu CSR REPORT 2015 94 Goal 4 Promoting Communication Business Partners NGO/NPO Employees Promoting Partner QU Proposal Activities We conduct the Partner QU (Quality Up) Activity as a communication channel for business partners so that they can offer ideas for improvements, requests and opinions concerning Anritsu. In addition to procurement-related issues, we welcome opinions on a broad range of other areas, including sales, technology, manufacturing, service, safety and health, the environment and CSR. A council that promotes and supports the Partner QU Activity meets once a month to deliberate on the proposals, determine whether or not to adopt them, and select companies for the annual award. NGOs and NPOs Anritsu is co-sponsoring a program that supports outdoor recreation activities for preschool children in Fukushima Prefecture. The program is planned and organized by the public interest incorporated association Save the Children Japan and implemented by Kodomo-no-Mori (Children’s Forest), a non-profit organization. Twenty-six employees participated as volunteers for the outdoor activities, which took place over ten days between July and October 2014. The program aims to address the decline in frequency of children’s outdoor play since the Great East Japan Earthquake, particularly in Fukushima Prefecture, by providing opportunities and a place for children to enjoy the normal childhood experience of spending free time in a natural environment. We will continue to contribute to society through collaborations with international NGOs and NPOs. Providing outdoor recreation for preschool children in Fukushima ©Save the Children Japan ©Save the Children Japan URL Employees The increasing globalization of our businesses and diversification of work styles have raised the importance of respecting human rights and promoting diversity. Moreover, from the perspectives of recruiting human resources and revitalizing internal communications, we are emphasizing systems and workplace environments that allow diverse groups of personnel to work in comfort. As part of these efforts, the Anritsu Group conducted an employee satisfaction survey in the U.S., the Asia-Pacific region and Japan. The survey gathered employee responses on issues such as how well they understood the direction of the company, its efforts in various programs, workplace communication, and their general sense of fulfillment at work. The results were reported to each division and incorporated into daily operations. Anritsu CSR REPORT 2015 95 Goal 4 Promoting Communication Employees Consultation Contact Points for Employees The Anritsu Group in Japan offers various means for employees to provide feedback or receive consultation. Employees can access the internal website, choose from a list of contact points, and communicate by phone or e-mail. Communication with the President Since his appointment, President Hashimoto has been using the corporate intranet to convey his management policies and provide other information. He also set up his own blog, the “Online President’s Room,” to communicate with employees by commenting on familiar topics each week. Overseas employees can read content from the blog under the title “Hashimoto’s Room.” Anritsu CSR REPORT 2015 96 Corporate Governance Basic Approach and System Overview Basic Approach Anritsu’s priority management issues are responding to changes in the operating environment in a flexible and speedy manner, improving competitiveness as a global company, and continuing to increase corporate value. To address these issues, we are placing priority on and working to create an environment and structure where corporate governance can function effectively. 1. Greater management transparency 2. Appropriate and timely disclosure of information 3. Stronger management supervision 4. Management resources development With this approach, we will continue to fulfill our corporate mission with “Sincerity, Harmony, and Enthusiasm”, as stated in the Anritsu Group’s corporate philosophy, by maintaining and implementing our internal system to facilitate transparent, fair, prompt, and bold decision making in the interests of shareholders, customers, employees, the community, and other stakeholders. System Overview Anritsu, as a company with an Audit & Supervisory Board, appointed three independent outside directors and two independent outside audit & supervisory board members. In addition, Anritsu formed its Nominating Committee and Compensation Advisory Committee, as voluntary advisory bodies to the Board of Directors, which are composed mainly of outside directors, with the aim of securing transparency and accountability. Through these and other activities, Anritsu has been taking initiatives to strengthen its corporate governance system. Beginning in June 2015, Anritsu started to move forward with these corporate governance initiatives by continuing the functions of the Nominating and Compensation Advisory Committees, choosing to become a “Company with an Audit Committee”as provided in the revised Companies Act, and forming an Audit Committee with the aim of strengthening its corporate governance system. The reasons for becoming a Company with an Audit Committee are as follows. 1. In view of the Company’s high consolidated overseas revenue ratio and high foreign stock ownership ratio we will establish a corporate governance system that is easily understandable from a global perspective. 2. By bringing together independent outside directors with valuable skills and insight and including them in the membership of the Company’s Board of Directors to increase transparency and hold active discussions from the shareholders’ viewpoint. 3. By establishing an Audit Committee and providing voting rights in the Board of Directors to Directors who are members of the Audit Committee, we will strengthen their audit and supervisory functions and substantially enhance our internal control system. As a highly specialized manufacturer, Anritsu believes that in regard to decision making it is important to stay in touch with its sites of operations, and for this reason it will maintain its executive officer system with the aim of ensuring the timely execution of operations. While the Articles of Incorporation states that the Board of Directors can delegate all or part of the decision-making process regarding the execution of important operations to a director by its resolution, the Board of Directors will, in principle, deliberate and decide on such matters for the time being. We will review the issue of partially delegating such decision making to a director, as well as the criteria for the Board of Directors’ agenda, to narrow down the agenda items for the purpose of developing the deliberations and strengthening the supervisory function of the board. The number of members comprising the management system is as follows. According to our Articles of Incorporation, Anritsu can have not more than 10 directors (excluding directors elected as Audit Committee members and can have not more than 5 directors elected as Audit Committee members. There are 15 executive officers (including 2 foreign nationals). Anritsu CSR REPORT 2015 97 Corporate Governance System Overview Internal/full-time directors (number) Outside Total Category and number of directors Executive Non-executive directors (number) directors directors － Directors 5 3 8 (excluding directors elected as Audit Committee members) Directors elected as Audit Committee members － 1 2 3 Total (number) 5 1 5 11 ▶ Corporate Governance Management System Diagram (as of June 25 , 2015 ) Shareholders’ Meeting Appointment/Dismissal Audit Report (statement of Board of Directors (11)(Chairperson: Internal Director) Appointment/ Appointment/ opinion on Dismissal Dismissal appointment and ＜Non-executive Directors (6)＞ compensation of Independent directors) Committee (5) Outside Directors (3) (lead independent Audit Committee Members (outside directors) (2) outside director) Audit Committee (3) Accounting Auditor Audit Committee Member (internal director) (1) ＜Executive Directors (5)＞ Instruction Assistance Internal Directors (5) Management Audit Audit, etc. Department Advice and Advice and Consultation Recommendation Consultation Recommendation Financial Audit, etc. Supervision Audit Nominating Committee Compensation Advisory <Cooperation> Committee Directors (4) Including 3 Outside Directors (4) Communication Report Directors Including 3 Outside Directors (chairperson: outside director) (chairperson: outside director) Management Strategic Conference (internal director/vice president, etc.) Internal Audit Vice President (15) Director & Vice President (5) Vice President (10) Global Audit Department Audit Each Business Division, Business Process, Subsidiaries, etc. Anritsu CSR REPORT 2015 98 Corporate Governance Company Structure Company Struc ture Board of Directors The Board of Directors system was streamlined in accordance with the adoption of an executive officer system in 2000. Discussion by the small number of people involved facilitates prompt decision making. The board discusses reports and matters for resolution with the aid of candid opinions actively provided by outside directors. In each quarter, following the Board of Directors’ meetings, a “Free Discussion” is held with the participation of the executive officers as well as directors who have attended the Board of Directors’ meetings. Based on themes presented by each executive officer and related to their respective areas of responsibility, discussions on mediumto long-term management issues and the like are held with the involvement of all members. Management Strategy Conference Anritsu separates the decision-making and supervisory functions of the Board of Directors from the business execution functions of the executive officers. Important matters related to business execution are deliberated on and resolved by the Management Strategy Conference, chaired by the president. Management strategy and, in particular, important matters associated with the basic policies on Anritsu Group management and the midto long-term strategies for business and finance are deliberated by the Management Strategy Conference before they are presented to the for decision making. Compensation Committee The compensation for directors and executive officers is discussed and assessed by the Compensation Committee, an advisory body to the Board of Directors, with reference to various judgmental criteria including the amounts of the previous year’s performance-based bonuses paid to directors and executive officers and their compensation packages, including their levels, for the current fiscal year. The committee chairperson (who also chairs the committee meetings) is served by an outside director. Currently, the committee is comprised of a total of 4 directors including 1 full-time director and 3 outside directors to ensure its transparency in its discussions on remuneration. Nomination Committee Anritsu has established the Nomination Committee as an advisory body to the Board of Directors, with the aim of improving transparency, objectivity and fairness in the selection and removal of director nominees and the resignation of representative directors as well as obtaining advice and recommendations concerning the development of management personnel capacity. The Nomination Committee is comprised of a total of 4 directors including 1 full-time director and 3 outside directors. The committee chairperson (who also chairs the committee meetings) is served by a different outside director from the chairperson of the Compensation Committee. The Nominating Committee is responsible for the preparation of a list of candidates for executive officers and other key members of management at the same level as executive officers. It also prepares a list of candidates for outside director that takes account of criteria for independence of outside directors, diversity of the board, and other considerations and submits it to the Board of Directors. Independent Committee As a new corporate governance initiative, the Independent Committee has been formed to have five independent outside directors as members, including outside directors who are members of the Audit Committee. As a result, along with the appointment of a lead independent outside director, a venue for lively discussion has been created and members are able to exchange information and share awareness from an independent and objective perspective as well as provide advice and recommendations on management issues. Anritsu CSR REPORT 2015 99 Status of Internal Audits and Audits Audit Committee and Management Corporate Governance by Auditors Audit Department Status of Internal Audits and Audits by Auditors With regard to an internal audit, the Global Audit Department conducts operational audits and provides guidance and assistance to internal audit departments of the group companies. Additionally, relevant departments and committees share functions as needed, such as daily monitoring for export control conducted by the Trade Control Department. Thereby, enhancement and improvement of company-wide audit functions are attempted. From the current fiscal year, Anritsu became a company with an audit and supervisory board. With regard to audits conducted by its Audit & Supervisory Board members, when the board receives an outline of audits and quarterly review plans, summary of quarterly audit review, term-end summary of audits, accountant’s report and notices issued in accordance with article 131 of the Corporate Accounting Rules, the board is presented with brief explanations about the information reported in these documents by the accounting auditor and exchanges opinion. In addition, each Audit & Supervisory Board member (including outside Audit & Supervisory Board members) conducts meetings as needed with the accounting auditor to exchange opinions and information including the results of visiting audits. Moreover, in order to implement effective and efficient audits, Audit & Supervisory Board members and the internal audit department (Global Audit Department) conduct regular meetings once every quarter and irregular meetings on a case-by-case basis. They exchange opinions on such topics as audit policies, audit plans, and the state of audit implementation. They also undertake endeavors to strengthen collaboration through audit reporting in each audit case. In addition, in order to enhance the effectiveness of the managerial supervisory function, Audit & Supervisory Board members, including outside members of this board, meet with the president twice a year to discuss and exchange information. Audit Commit tee and Management Audit Depar tment Following the conclusion of the 89th Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders held on June 25, 2015, rules on the Audit Committee and its detailed regulations were established at the first Audit Committee meeting held on the same date after the transition to a Company with an Audit Committee. We deliberated on audit policies, audit plans, audit methods, sharing of responsibilities for audit operations and similar issues in addition to the appointment of the chairperson of the Audit Committee, appointment of full-time Audit Committee members, and other matters necessary for carrying out duties of the Audit Committee members. Takaya Seki, an outside director, was elected as the chairperson of the Audit Committee and Tomoyuki Kikugawa was appointed as a full-time Audit Committee member. We will link this to a more prompt and accurate understanding of information internally and agile auditing. Yuji Inoue, an outside director, worked as a general manager of the accounting department of his former company and experienced accounting and finance operations. Therefore, he has considerable knowledge on finance and accounting. Currently, there are a total of 3 directors elected as Audit Committee members including 2 outside directors and 1 full-time director who does not execute operations. A team comprising the aforementioned members will carry out the duties of the Audit Committee members and manage the Audit Committee. Moreover, we established the Management Audit Department in April 2015 as an organization for supporting the operations of the Audit Committee to maintain and improve the audit quality of the Audit Committee. The Management Audit Department (comprising 2 members as of June 2015) will conduct its operations in cooperation with the Audit Committee, the accounting auditor and the Global Audit Department (comprising 5 members as of June 2015). As we have multiple domestic and international subsidiaries in our group and prioritize governance of global corporate groups including such subsidiaries, directors elected as full-time Audit Committee members and executives of the Management Audit Department will take the positions of Audit & Supervisory Board members (or non-executive directors for companies without Audit & Supervisory Board members) in our major domestic and international subsidiaries, sharing the responsibilities involved. Through this, we will enhance the functions for auditing and monitoring of subsidiaries. In addition, we will utilize the audit know-how acquired before the establishment of the Audit & Supervisory Board members and the Audit & Supervisory Board and will continue making effective efforts based on the experiences we have cultivated over a long period. At the same time, we will aim to improve further the quality and efficiency of audits. Anritsu CSR REPORT 2015 100 Corporate Governance Status of Accounting Audit Role of Outside Officers Status of Accounting Audit The certified public accountants who have conducted our accounting audit operations are Iwao Hirano, Tatsuo Morii and Atsushi Nagata, all members of KPMG AZSA LLC. Assisting accounting audit operations for the fiscal year ending March 2015 are 6 certified public accountants and 10 other personnel. In addition, no agreement on a restriction of liability for damages has been executed between Anritsu and the independent auditor. Role of Outside Of ficers Approach Following the conclusion of the 85th Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders held on June 28, 2011, Anritsu implemented a system with a total of 5 outside officers, including 3 outside directors and 2 outside Audit & Supervisory Board members. As part of our efforts to strengthen corporate governance, a system was put in place to promote management utilizing external viewpoints and to enhance further monitoring functions related to the execution of operations. After the conclusion of the 89th Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders held on June 25, 2015, Anritsu made a transition to a Company with an Audit Committee and has adopted a system with 5 outside directors. Following the transition and by bringing together independent outside directors with valuable skills and insight and including them in the membership of the Board of Directors, we have increased the percentage of outside directors as well as raised the level of transparency and can hold active and effective discussions from the shareholders’ point of view. Consideration for Independence in the Selection Process The company tries to appoint outside directors who possess extensive global business experience as corporate executives, a wealth of knowledge and excellent insight, such as attorneys at law in Japan and the United States, certified public accountants and corporate governance specialists. The company expects to draw on directors’ advice based on their outside perspectives in areas such as management. The company also believes that this will strengthen objectivity and fairness in the decision-making process at Board of Directors’ meetings while also leading to an increase in management transparency. The company enters into an agreement with each of its outside directors to limit any liabilities for damages in their relevant positions. Under the agreement, the maximum amount of liability for outside directors shall be the higher amount of either 10 million yen or the amount regulated under laws and regulations. The company has assigned all of its 5 outside directors as its independent officers and filed them with the Tokyo Stock Exchange. Outside Director Teruaki Aoki has experience as a managing director, senior executive vice president, executive officer, and in other executive posts at Sony Corporation, and currently serves as president of Sony University of the company. Outside Director Takaya Seki currently serves as a lecturer at the Graduate School of Global Business and the Organization for International Collaboration at Meiji University. Outside Director Yuji Inoue has experience as a group executive officer, managing director, and in other executive posts, and as a Standing Audit & Supervisory Board member (full-time) at Ricoh Company, Ltd. The Anritsu Group has business relationships, both directly and indirectly, with the above corporations and others where its outside directors and outside Audit & Supervisory Board members concurrently serve or formerly worked, as well as their major subsidiaries, principally through the sales and maintenance of Anritsu Group products. However, the amount of such business transactions is small (each of them accounted for less than 1 percent of Anritsu’s consolidated revenue for the current fiscal year). Other than the above, there are no personal, capital or trading relationships, or other conflicting interests between the company and each Anritsu CSR REPORT 2015 101 Corporate Governance Role of Outside Officers of its outside directors and outside Audit & Supervisory Board members. Therefore, Anritsu has determined that there are no potential conflicting interests between them and the general shareholders, on the grounds that none of them is a person who executes business or is a principal shareholder or former employee of the major clients of Anritsu or its affiliates, and that the company recognizes no significant matters concerning these outside officers that affect their independence. In selecting outside officers, Anritsu pays close attention to potential conflicts of interest with general shareholders as laid down in the “Guidelines Concerning Listed Company Compliance, etc.” of the Tokyo Stock Exchange. This precludes any possibility of selecting a person who may be under significant influence of the company’s management or exerts a significant influence on its management. In addition, with a view to reflecting various stakeholders’ views on the supervision and proper management of the Anritsu Group’s operations, the company places importance on the diversity of nominees’ professional competence, background and other aspects. In order to facilitate sustainable and robust corporate governance, the company believes that arbitrariness must not be a part of the selection or nomination of candidates for outside officers, and to establish an environment that maintains the independence of outside officers after they assume their office. In line with this notion, the Board of Directors resolved to adopt the “Criteria for the independence of outside officers,” detailed below. The establishment and revisions of these criteria shall obtain approval and be resolved by the Board of Directors after deliberation at the Nomination Committee, which is an advisory body of the Board of Directors. Anritsu emphasizes that its outside officers remain neutral and independent of the company. In light of this, in selecting candidates for these positions, it places importance on determining whether their independence meets these criteria. Criteria for the Independence of Outside Officers With reference to the results from reasonable assessments conducted by Anritsu and other information, the company will determine whether the outside director or outside Audit & Supervisory Board member (hereinafter collectively referred to as “outside officer”) or outside officer candidate is sufficiently independent of the company’s management, if they or their business title does not fall into any of the following categories. 1. A person who executes business*1 of the Anritsu Group or its subsidiaries (hereinafter collectively referred to as the “Anritsu Group”) 2. A principal shareholder*2 of Anritsu or a person who executes business*1 for such a shareholder 3. A person who executes business*1 of an organization of which the Anritsu Group is a principal shareholder*2 4. A person of an organization of which the Anritsu Group is a major client*3 or a person who executes business*1 for such an organization 5. A major client*3 of the Anritsu Group or a person who executes business*1 for such a client 6. A person of an organization that receives a large amount of contributions in the form of money or other assets*4 from the Anritsu Group or a person who executes business*1 for such an organization 7. A consultant, professional accountant (e.g., certified public accountant) or legal professional (e.g., lawyer) who receives a large amount of money or other assets*4 other than director’s compensation (if the subject receiving a large amount of money or other assets*4 is a corporation or institution such as an association, then a person belonging to one of these organizations) 8. A person from an organization with which the Anritsu Group has a reciprocal outside director appointment*5 relationship 9. A person who has fallen under any of the above 1 to 8 in the past*6 10. A person who is a spouse or relative within the second degree of those stated in (a) or (b) below (a) Important persons*7 of those described in 1 (note that these include both incumbent and former directors who are or were not persons who execute business*1 when judging the independence of outside directors elected as Audit Committee members or their candidates); (b) Important persons*7 of those described in 2 to 8 11. Other than those described above, a person whose circumstances are reasonably considered incapable of fulfilling an outside officer’s responsibilities from an independent and impartial standpoint with respect to the company. Anritsu CSR REPORT 2015 102 Corporate Governance Role of Outside Officers Compensation of Directors Notes: *1 A person who executes business refers to a person who executes operations as a director (excluding outside directors), officers, employees (including executive officers), etc. It also refers to a person who executes operations of a legal entity (other than a corporation) or an institution, e.g., an association. *2 A shareholder whose voting common stocks in the company (held either directly or indirectly), accounting for 10 percent or more of the total, is reasonably deemed as a principal shareholder. *3 Major client is defined according to the description of a major client prescribed in III 5. (3)-2 of the Guidelines Concerning Listed Company Compliance, etc. of the Tokyo Stock Exchange. *4 The company reasonably assesses that the value of money or other assets awarded to the person is large if it, for any fiscal year, stands at 10 million yen or more or accounts for 2 percent or more of the person’s gross income, whichever is greater. *5 Reciprocal Outside Director appointment refers to a relationship between the Anritsu Group and another company where an incumbent outside director of the other company was previously an employee of the Anritsu Group and in reverse an outside director of the Anritsu Group was previously an employee of the relevant other company. *6 The past in this context does not represent any specific period of time with regard to the person stated in 1 above, whereas the term past in reference to 2 to 8 means the previous 10 fiscal years, including the most recent. *7 The term important persons in (a) means persons who execute business as stated in 1. They include important employees such as executive officers but exclude those whose positions are senior managers or of a lower rank. With regard to “important persons” of those described in 2 to 8 (excluding 7) and specified in (b), the criteria is limited to important persons who execute business and ranked at important positions, such as director, officer and executive officer. Separately, the important persons referred to in 7 are limited to those with professional qualifications, such as public certified accountants and lawyers. *8 The company will separately set out, as necessary, the criteria for the amount of transactions or contributions that can be deemed not to have significant influence on shareholders’ decisions regarding the exercise of their voting rights, concerning Listed company clients and directors who were previously employees of such clients and Beneficiaries of contributions made by listed companies or directors who were previously employees of such beneficiaries (both are mandatory attributable information to be incorporated in the Corporate Governance Report and Independent Directors/Auditors Notification filed with the Tokyo Stock Exchange in accordance with its rules). Compensation of Direc tors Policy and Decision Making on the Calculation Method for Compensation of Directors The compensation of directors and executive officers is discussed in the meetings of the Compensation Committee, an advisory group to the Board of Directors. Discussions cover Directors’ bonuses based on performance in the previous fiscal year, the scheme for Director’s compensation, compensation levels for the current fiscal year, and other related matters. Basic policies for Director’s compensation and related matters are as follows. 1. Creation of systems that will create motivation for achieving corporate objectives and continuing to create corporate value 2. Creation of attractive systems that will enable the Company to secure capable and diverse personnel as Directors of a global corporation 3. Securing appropriateness and objectiveness in the compensation determination process and in allocation of compensation Under the policy stated above, the amount of directors’ compensation is determined with reference to information gained from external research organizations and concerning the rates of remuneration for similar posts, and also in consideration of the balance between a fixed amount of compensation based on the directors’ responsibilities and a floating amount closely tied to Anritsu’s business performance for each fiscal year. With this method, the company principally aims to make efficient use of the directors’ compensation scheme to provide them with incentives to enhance the company’s performance for each fiscal year and achieve mediumto long-term maximization of corporate value. The compensation package contains a bonus linked to the company’s performance and the amount of bonus equals 40 percent of an executive director’s annual salary, which is used as the basis for their compensation package. For the compensation scheme, we have adopted an institutional design that allows the relevant directors to share their awareness of profits with shareholders and to be motivated to perform management based on an awareness of performance and stock value from mediumand long-term viewpoints. The bonus is comprised of monetary remuneration (bonuses) and non-monetary remuneration (stock-based remuneration) in accordance with an incentive plan using trusts. Each director is evaluated in light of the level of distribution of surpluses for given fiscal years targeted for evaluation, the degree of achievement of numerical targets in relation to management indexes, and the degree of achievement in relation to management indexes including non-financial viewpoints established by each director in advance, etc. ・ Compensation of Directors Elected as Audit Committee Members Focusing primarily on effective auditing of the execution of the company’s duties, compensation of the directors elected as Audit Committee members in the form of fixed fees has been determined within the amount resolved at the general meeting of shareholders based on consultation with the Audit Committee members. This has been done so that the Audit & Supervisor Board members will be able to fulfill their duties independent of the influence of persons who execute business. Anritsu CSR REPORT 2015 103 Sharing Sustainability Issues and Bolstering Corporate Governance Compensation of Directors Knowledge among the Management Executives Disclosure of Directors’ Compensation Total amount classified by compensation type Total amount of (millions of yen) Number Position compensation of eligible (millions of yen) Basic Stock Retirement officers Bonuses compensation option benefits ー Direc tors 188 125 8 55 5 (excluding outside direc tors) Audit & Super visor y Board ー ー ー members 42 42 2 (excluding outside Audit & Super visor y Board members) Outside direc tors 40 40 ー ー ー 6 Note: ※1 In addition to the aforementioned items, the salaries (including bonuses) for directors who serve concurrently as employees (3 persons) amount to 45 million yen. ※2 The number of directors eligible for compensation includes 1 director (outside director) who retired at the close of the 88th Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders held on June 26, 2014. ※3 No director of the company received 100 million yen or more in the total consolidated compensation (including compensation for the director of its principal consolidated subsidiaries). Sharing Sustainability Issues and Bolstering Knowledge among the Management Executives In the current fiscal year, an outside director who is concurrently serving as a professor and instructor at a graduate school gave a lecture for executive officers and other management executives of Anritsu. The lecture was on corporate governance and management issues of Japanese enterprises, which are his areas of expertise. This was a meaningful approach from the viewpoint of fostering managerial personnel. Anritsu CSR REPORT 2015 104 GRI Guidelines Index GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES Report Pages Strategy and Analysis Provide a statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization (such as CEO, chair, or equivalent senior position) about the relevance of sustainability to the G4-1 04 organization and the organization’s strategy for addressing sustainability. G4-2 Provide a description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities. 04, 07-09, 11-13 Organizational Profile G4-3 Report the name of the organization. Back Cover G4-4 Report the primary brands, products, and services 06-09 G4-5 Report the location of the organization’s headquarters. 05 Report the number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries where either the organization has significant operations or that are specifically G4-6 10 relevant to the sustainability topics covered in the report. G4-7 Report the nature of ownership and legal form. 05 G4-8 Report the markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of customers and beneficiaries). 05-10 Report the scale of the organization, including: ・Total number of employees ・Total number of operations ・Net sales (for private sector organizations) or net revenues (for public sector organizations) G4-9 05 ・Total capitalization broken down in terms of debt and equity (for private sector organizations) ・Quantity of products or services provided a. Report the total number of employees by employment contract and gender. b. Report the total number of permanent employees by employment type and gender. c. Report the total workforce by employees and supervised workers and by gender. G4-10 d. Report the total workforce by region and gender. 48-50 e. Report whether a substantial portion of the organization’s work is performed by workers who are legally recognized as selfemployed, or by individuals other than employees or supervised workers, including employees and supervised employees of contractors. f. Report any significant variations in employment numbers (such as seasonal variations in employment in the tourism or agricultural industries). Report any significant changes during the reporting period regarding the organization’s size, structure,ownership, or its supply chain, including: ・Changes in the location of, or changes in, operations, including facility openings, closings, and expansions ・Changes in the share capital structure and other capital formation, maintenance, and alteration operations (for private sector organizations) G4-13 None ・Changes in the location of suppliers, the structure of the supply chain, or in relationships with suppliers, including selection and termination G4-14 Report whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the organization. 31 G4-15 List externally developed economic, environmental and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the organization subscribes or which it endorses. 31 Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries a. List all entities included in the organization’s consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents. G4-17 05, 10 b. Report whether any entity included in the organization’s consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents is not covered by the report. a. Explain the process for defining the report content and the Aspect Boundaries. G4-18 03, 13 b. Explain how the organization has implemented the Reporting Principles for Defining Report Content. G4-19 List all the material Aspects identified in the process for defining report content. 13 For each material Aspect, report the Aspect Boundary within the organization, as follows: ・Report whether the Aspect is material within the organization ・If the Aspect is not material for all entities within the organization (as described in G4-17), select one of the following two approaches and report either: G4-20 10 ––The list of entities or groups of entities included in G4-17 for which the Aspect is not material or ––The list of entities or groups of entities included in G4-17 for which the Aspects is material ・Report any specific limitation regarding the Aspect Boundary within the organization G4-22 Report the effect of any restatements of information provided in previous reports, and the reasons for such restatements. None G4-23 Report significant changes from previous reporting periods in the Scope and Aspect Boundaries. None Stakeholder Engagement G4-24 Provide a list of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. 12, 91 G4-25 Report the basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage. 12, 91 Report the organization’s approach to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder group, and an indication of whether any of G4-26 91-96 the engagement was undertaken specifically as part of the report preparation process. Report key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the organization has responded to those key topics and concerns, includG4-27 17-22 ing through its reporting. Report the stakeholder groups that raised each of the key topics and concerns. Report Profile G4-28 Reporting period (such as fiscal or calendar year) for information provided. 03 G4-29 Date of most recent previous report (if any). 03 G4-30 Reporting cycle (such as annual, biennial). 03 G4-31 Provide the contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents. Back Cover a. Report the ‘in accordance’ option the organization has chosen. b. Report the GRI Content Index for the chosen option (see tables below). G4-32 Core c. Report the reference to the External Assurance Report, if the report has been externally assured. GRI recommends the use of external assurance but it is not a requirement to be ‘in accordance’ with the Guidelines. a. Report the organization’s policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report. b. If not included in the assurance report accompanying the sustainability report, report the scope and basis of any external assurance provided. G4-33 61 c. Report the relationship between the organization and the assurance providers. d. Report whether the highest governance body or senior executives are involved in seeking assurance for the organization’s sustainability report. Governance Report the governance structure of the organization, including committees of the highest governance body.Identify any committees responsible for decision-making on G4-34 14, 97-104 economic, environmental and social impacts. Anritsu CSR REPORT 2015 105 GRI Guidelines Index G4-35 Report the process for delegating authority for economic, environmental and social topics from the highest governance body to senior executives and other employees. 14, 97-104 Report whether the organization has appointed an executive-level position or positions with responsibility for economic, environmental and social topics, and whether post G4-36 14, 97-104 holders report directly to the highest governance body. Report processes for consultation between stakeholders and the highest governance body on economic, environmental and social topics. If consultation is delegated, describe to G4-37 14, 32, 93, 94 whom and any feedback processes to the highest governance body. Report the composition of the highest governance body and its committees by: ・Executive or non-executive ・Independence ・Tenure on the governance body G4-38 ・Number of each individual’s other significant positions and commitments, and the nature of the commitments 14, 97-104 ・Gender ・Membership of under-represented social groups ・Competences relating to economic, environmental and social impacts ・Stakeholder representation Report whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer (and, if so, his or herfunction within the organization’s management and the reasons for G4-39 97 this arrangement). Report the nomination and selection processes for the highest governance body and its committees, and the criteria used for nominating and selecting highest governance body members, including: ・Whether and how diversity is considered ・Whether and how independence is considered G4-40 97-104 ・Whether and how expertise and experience relating to economic, environmental and social topics are considered ・Whether and how stakeholders (including shareholders) are involved Report processes for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided and managed. Report whether conflicts of interest are disclosed to stakeholders, including, as a minimum: ・Cross-board membership Website( Anritsu Group ・Cross-shareholding with suppliers and other stakeholders G4-41 Charter of Corporate ・Existence of controlling shareholder Behavior, Chapter 5 ) ・Related party disclosures Report the highest governance body’s and senior executives’ roles in the development, approval, and updating of the organization’s purpose, value or mission statements, strateG4-42 14 gies, policies, and goals related to economic, environmental and social impacts. G4-43 Measures taken to develop and enhance the highest governance body’s collective knowledge of economic, environmental and social topics 104 a. Report the processes for evaluation of the highest governance body’s performance with respect to governance of economic, environmental and social topics. Report whether such evaluation is independent or not, and its frequency. Report whether such evaluation is a self-assessment. G4-44 14 b. Report actions taken in response to evaluation of the highest governance body’s performance with respect to governance of economic, environmental and social topics, including, as a minimum, changes in membership and organizational practice. a. Report the highest governance body’s role in the identification and management of economic, environmental and social impacts, risks, and opportunities. Include the highest governance body’s role in the implementation of due diligence processes. G4-45 14, 37 b. Report whether stakeholder consultation is used to support the highest governance body’s identification and management of economic, environmental and social impacts, risks, and opportunities. G4-46 Report the highest governance body’s role in reviewing the effectiveness of the organization’s risk management processes for economic, environmental and social topics. 14 G4-47 Report the frequency of the highest governance body’s review of economic, environmental and social impacts, risks, and opportunities. 14 G4-48 The highest committee or position that formally reviews and approves the organization’s sustainability report 14 G4-49 Report the process for communicating critical concerns to the highest governance body. 32-35 G4-50 The nature and total number of critical concerns communicated to the highest governance body and the mechanism(s) used to address and resolve them 35 a. Report the remuneration policies for the highest governance body and senior executives for the below types of remuneration: ・Fixed pay and variable pay: -Performance-based pay -Equity-based pay -Bonuses G4-51 -Deferred or vested shares 103, 104 ・Sign-on bonuses or recruitment incentive payments ・Termination payments ・Clawbacks ・Retirement benefits, including the difference between benefit schemes and contribution rates for the highest governance body, senior executives, and all other employees b. Report how performance criteria in the remuneration policy relate to the highest governance body’s and senior executives’economic, environmental and social objectives Report the process for determining remuneration. Report whether remuneration consultants are involved in determining remuneration and whether they are independent of G4-52 103 management. Report any other relationships which the remuneration consultants have with the organization. G4-53 Report how stakeholders’ views are sought and taken into account regarding remuneration, including the results of votes on remuneration policies and proposals, if applicable. 103 Ethics and Integrity G4-56 Describe the organization’s values, principles, standards and norms of behavior such as codes of conduct and codes of ethics. 02 G4-57 Report the internal and external mechanisms for seeking advice on ethical and lawful behavior, and matters related to organizational integrity, such as helplines or advice lines. 32-35 Report the internal and external mechanisms for reporting concerns about unethical or unlawful behavior, and matters related to organizational integrity, such as escalation G4-58 32-35 through line management, whistleblowing mechanisms or hotlines. SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES Report Pages Disclosures on Management Approach a. Report why the Aspect is material. Report the impacts that make this Aspect material. b. Report how the organization manages the material Aspect or its impacts. c. Report the evaluation of the management approach, including: ・The mechanisms for evaluating the effectiveness of the management approach G4-DMA 13,14 ・The results of the evaluation of the management approach ・Any related adjustments to the management approach Economic ● Economic Performance G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 05 G4-EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization’s activities due to climate change Annual Report Anritsu CSR REPORT 2015 106 GRI Guidelines Index G4-EC3 Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan obligations Annual Report G4-EC4 Financial assistance received from government NA ● Market Presence G4-EC6 Proportion of senior management hired from the local community at significant locations of operation 49, 50 ● Procurement Practices G4-EC9 Proportion of spending on local suppliers at significant locations of operation 19 Environmental Materials G4-EN1 Materials used by weight or volume 88 G4-EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials 82, 88 ● Energy Website(Group EnG4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organization vironmental Impact Data), 71,88 G4-EN5 Energy intensity 16 G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption 71 G4-EN7 Reductions in energy requirements of products and services 85, 86 ● Water G4-EN8 Total water withdrawal by source 73, 88 G4-EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water 73 G4-EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused 74 Biodiversity G4-EN14 Total number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with habitats in areas affected by operations, by level of extinction risk NA ● Emissions G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 1) 61, 88 G4-EN16 Energy indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 2) 61, 88 G4-EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 3) 61 G4-EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions 71 Website (EnvironG4-EN21 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions mental Data of Each Site),76,88 Effluents and Waste G4-EN22 Total water discharge by quality and destination 74, 88 G4-EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method 79, 88 G4-EN24 Total number and volume of significant spills NA ● Products and Services G4-EN27 Extent of impact mitigation of environmental impacts of products and services 81-86 G4-EN28 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed by category 81, 82 ● Compliance G4-EN29 Monetary value of significantfines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations NA Transport Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials for the organization’s operations, and transporting members G4-EN30 61, 81, 82 of the workforce Overall G4-EN31 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type 89 ● Supplier Environmental Assessment G4-EN32 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria 45, 87 G4-EN33 Significant actual and potential negative environmental impacts in the supply chain and actions taken 45, 87 Environmental Grievance Mechanisms G4-EN34 Number of grievances about environmental impacts filed, addressed, and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms NA Social Labor Practices and Decent Work Employment G4-LA3 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender 49 Occupational Health and Safety G4-LA6 Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and total number of work-related fatalities, by region and by gender 55 ● Training and Education Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability of employees and assist them in managing career endG4-LA10 51-53 ings ● Diversity and Equal Opportunity Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee category according to gender, age group, minority group membership, G4-LA12 5, 48-51 and other indicators of diversity Anritsu CSR REPORT 2015 107 GRI Guidelines Index ● Supplier Assessment for Labor Practices G4-LA14 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using labor practices criteria 44, 45 G4-LA15 Significant actual and potential negative impacts for labor practices in the supply chain and actions taken 44, 45 Labor Practices Grievance Mechanisms G4-LA16 Number of grievances about labor practices filed, addressed, and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms NA Human Rights Investment G4-HR1 Total number and percentage of significant investment agreements and contracts that include human rights clauses or that underwent human rights screening 44, 45 Total hours of employee training on human rights policies or procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations, including the percentG4-HR2 33, 49 age of employees trained ● Non-discrimination G4-HR3 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken NA ● Child Labor G4-HR5 Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor, and measures taken to contribute to the effective abolition of child labor 31, 44, 45 ● Forced or Compulsory Labor Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor, and measures to contribute to the elimination of all forms G4-HR6 31, 44, 45 of forced or compulsory labor Indigenous Rights G4-HR8 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous peoples and actions taken NA Assessment G4-HR9 Total number and percentage of operations that have been subject to human rights reviews or impact assessments 47, 48 ● Supplier Human Rights Assessment G4-HR10 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using human rights criteria 44, 45 G4-HR11 Significant actual and potential negative human rights impacts in the supply chain and actions taken 44, 45 Human Rights Grievance Mechanisms G4-HR12 Number of grievances about human rights impacts filed, addressed, and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms NA Society Local Communities G4-SO1 Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, impact assessments, and development programs 56-58 ● Anti-corruption G4-SO3 Total number and percentage of operations assessed for risks related to corruption and the significant risks identified 34 G4-SO4 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and procedures 34 G4-SO5 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken NA ● Anti-competitive Behavior G4-SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes NA ● Compliance G4-SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations NA Supplier Assessment for Impacts on Society G4-SO9 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using criteria for impacts on society 44, 45 G4-SO10 Significant actual and potential negative impacts on society in the supply chain and actions taken 44, 45 Grievance Mechanisms for Impacts on Society G4-SO11 Number of grievances about impacts on society filed, addressed, and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms NA Product Responsibility ● Customer Health and Safety G4-PR1 Percentage of significant product and service categories for which health and safety impacts are assessed for improvement 27 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning the health and safety impacts of products and services during their G4-PR2 NA life cycle, by type of outcomes ● Product and Service Labeling G4-PR4 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and service information and labeling, by type of outcomes NA G4-PR5 Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction 24, 26 Marketing Communications Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and G4-PR7 NA sponsorship, by type of outcomes Customer Privacy G4-PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data NA ● Compliance G4-PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services NA •:Identified Material Aspects Anritsu CSR REPORT 2015 108 Independent Review Independent Review Representative Director, ideaship Inc. Daisuke Goto I was fortunate to have been involved in the early stages of when reporting on material issues, which is known as the putting together the Anritsu Group’s CSR report and would Sustainability Context Principle. The principle encourages like to offer my thoughts as an outside expert with an interest companies to develop an eye for strategy by asking why, in its development. while also building an understanding among readers. In determining the scope of its CSR activities and the report, Regarding these aspects, I expect Anritsu will implement a the Anritsu Group examines a broad range of requirements full-fledged effort over the coming years. set out by the latest guidelines and socially responsible Strengthening the organic link between reporting elements investment indexes while also seeking the opinions of outside is another way to produce a more reader-oriented document. experts. As a result, the key CSR issues addressed in the report For example, providing precise information on major factories for 2015 are firmly grounded on the principle of materiality. in the company profile and business outline sections would While the plans and goals of its CSR activities reflect the facilitate understanding of the content of the section on issues recognized by each division and Group company, environmental management. I believe that moving to an Anritsu also endeavors to address responsibly the issues integrated report this fiscal year, one that requires connectivity that have been pointed out through dialogue with outside of information, will help strengthen these efforts. experts and the independent review. I respect Anritsu’s Another remarkable development is the reinforced system stance of consistently and openly accepting outside opinions of global CSR promotion. Until recently, CSR liaisons in each and proceeding only after careful consideration. Providing a region have remained low key, but as they become more comprehensive explanation of this approach may be a good actively involved in identifying issues and creating initiatives, way for the company to communicate its position on CSR they could one day be the driving force behind raising to a with even greater clarity. new level the quality of Anritsu’s reporting process as well as The GRI Guidelines require background explanation the content. Response to the Independent Review This year marked the 120th anniversary of Anritsu’s founding and the accordance with the GRI Guidelines and create a more reader-oriented tenth year since the Anritsu Group’s CSR Division was established. publication. In the independent review for CSR Report 2015, we received high In addition, with regard to our global activities, representing a marks and sound advice from Mr. Goto, Representative Director of long-standing issue in our promotion of CSR, we will more closely ideaship Inc., which has been guiding us since the inauguration of the collaborate with each region to develop actions that are based on CSR Division. engagement, including the sharing of issues and formulation of With regard to his point on the process for reflecting stakeholder initiatives in response. opinions in the annual plan and goals of each division, we will seek We stand committed to promoting communication with our to offer explanations that would be easy for anyone to understand. stakeholders and will vigorously push forward to provide solutions for We will also make improvements to the report on material issues in social issues. CSR·CS Promotion Team, Corporate Communication Department, Anritsu Corporation Anritsu CSR REPORT 2015 109 The entrance to Anritsu’ s new global headquarters building symbolizes its limitless growth and vitality. The paintings on both sides of the entrance door are the work of Soshi Kimata. ANRITSU CORPORATION 5-1-1 Onna, Atsugi-shi, Kanagawa 243-8555, Japan Tel : +81-46-223-1111 http://www.anritsu.com
