Responsible business. UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress “In our first Communication on Progress, I am pleased to confirm Linklaters’ support for the ten principles of the UN Global Compact on human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. We are committed to making these principles part of the strategy, culture and day-to-day operations of our firm, and engaging in collaborative projects which advance the broader development goals of the United Nations.” Robert Elliott, Senior Partner and Chairman We recognise that virtually all activities in the legal sector have Award successes some impact on society and the environment. As a leading Lawyers at Linklaters are supported to develop their legal global law firm, we want our performance to be measured not expertise through providing their specialist skills to not-for-profit only by our profitability as a business but also by our impact on organisations to enable them to innovate and expand. The firm the societies and environments in which we operate. As part of won the Most Innovative Law Firm in the Social Responsibility our commitment to be a responsible business, we launched our category in the European FT Innovative Awards 2014 for the award-winning ‘Collective Responsibility’ strategy with the aim launch of its International Governance and Development practice, of embedding corporate responsibility in all that we do. This for its commitment to good governance and pulling together strategy is something that must be at the heart of our culture and expertise from across practices to improve governance standards, underpins the spirit of the firm – who we are both individually working on both a pro bono and a paid-for basis. In a pro bono and together. Examples of how we have embedded this strategy engagement that has lasted for many years and involved many in the culture of the firm, across our global network of offices, lawyers in a number of our offices, we have worked with B Lab can be found in our latest Collective Responsibilities Report. developing new legal frameworks that help business to play a role Supporting the rule of law in achieving positive social change and address environmental The foundation of our work in this area comes from a belief that challenges. This pro bono project achieved recognition as the rule of law is essential to human progress, underpinning ‘Standout’ in the category of social responsibility in the North economic activity and the development of societies across the American FT Innovative Lawyers Awards 2014. globe. Our work is to enable the world of business – and through Corporate responsibility at Linklaters our pro bono activity, wider society – to benefit from the rule Corporate sustainability strategies and initiatives are governed of law and the integrity, fairness and certainty that it brings. at the highest level of our partnership by our global Corporate Linklaters is the proud sponsor of the British Library’s 2015 Responsibility Committee, which includes the Chairman and celebration of the 800th anniversary of the signing of Magna Senior Partner. This Communication on Progress has been Carta. We are the sole sponsor of the unification of the four approved at the highest level within the firm. We look forward to surviving original 1215 copies of the Magna Carta taking place working further on these successes in the future as we continue at the British Library on 2 February 2015, and related activities to deliver on our commitment to be a responsible business. during that week, and we are the lead sponsor of the British Library exhibition ‘Magna Carta: Law, Liberty, Legacy’ from March to September 2015, which explores the history and resonance Key contacts:  of this globally recognised document, looking at its medieval Tom Shropshire Partner, Chair of Corporate Responsibility Committee origins through to what it has come to mean today. tom.shropshire@linklaters.com Matthew Sparkes Global Head of Corporate Responsibility matthew.sparkes@linklaters.com Our progress in implementing the ten principles of the UN Global Compact Human Rights 1. L  inklaters supports and respects the protection of Our lawyers internationally proclaimed human rights. We encourage our people to consider potential or actual As a leading global law firm, Linklaters is committed to adverse human rights impacts in their work. Our internal excellence, aspiring to lead by example and conduct every guidance on human rights at the firm provides for a aspect of our business with integrity. We aspire to apply the proportionate discussion of actual and potential human rights ten principles of the UN Global Compact and endorse the impacts through our internal review processes as part UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights of existing consideration of wider business risk and (the ‘Guiding Principles’). We view this as an integral part of reputational issues, particularly for higher-risk areas. our collective responsibilities to our clients, our colleagues, Supply chain the marketplace and society. We support the principles contained within the International Bill of Human Rights Our suppliers are asked during a tender process to provide and the International Labour Organisation’s Declaration on information and assurance across the topics of health and safety Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. Linklaters’ human and labour. We will continue to trial methods of collecting and rights policy is approved at the highest level, publicly available analysing human rights-related information from our suppliers. and communicated internally and externally. We will continue Labour Rights to implement this policy across the firm. 3. L  inklaters upholds the freedom of association and Advice to clients and training for lawyers the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Linklaters has established a cross-practice Operational We have a firm-wide policy in place that we maintain Intelligence Group which advises clients on issues such as the employment arrangements and agreements that do not prohibit implementation of the Guiding Principles across large or discourage freedom of association or collective bargaining. multi-national corporations and non-financial disclosure requirements in relation to human rights policies and We will continue to implement their policy across the firm. considerations. We have provided legal training seminars to our 4. Linklaters upholds the elimination of all forms of compulsory lawyers in London. This training covered a number of topics or forced labour. including the practical steps required by businesses under the We have a firm-wide policy in place that we will not use, be Guiding Principles, European and U.S. non-financial regulation complicit in, or knowingly benefit from forced or compulsory on this topic as well as sectoral standards and voluntary labour. We will engage our people on the basis of recognised principles. We have also provided legal training to our lawyers partnership, employment, collaboration and consultancy on key areas of international human rights law with a focus on arrangements established through national law and practice. understanding and application of human rights in practice, including international law human rights mechanisms. We will 5. Linklaters  upholds the effective abolition of explore additional training and learning for our staff to increase child labour. their understanding of how human rights considerations are We have a firm-wide policy in place that we will not use, be relevant to their work. complicit in, or knowingly benefit from child labour. In the Pro bono matters UK, our Sustainable Procurement Policy integrates economic We are providing pro bono legal services for the United Nations and social considerations into procurement, and recognises and the UN Global Compact to support their long-term goals the importance of responsible supply chain management in the area of corporate sustainability including the role of and being sensitive to the ability of responsible purchasing to business in supporting development objectives. Through our effect positive change. We endeavour to work with suppliers global pro bono practice, we support NGOs of all sizes who who have due regard for social issues such as employment defend the rights and fundamental freedoms of vulnerable and conditions and welfare, and who adopt approaches that marginalised groups. Linklaters supported the International are consistent with the firm’s approach with respect to their Center for Advocates against Discrimination (ICAAD) on a pro operations, employees and supply chain. bono project in relation to structural discrimination against 6. Linklaters  upholds the elimination of discrimination women and minorities across ten countries. The objective in respect of employment and occupation. was to create an interactive map to consolidate the legal Diversity and inclusion (D&I) is a strategic priority for the firm. analysis into a user-friendly and country-specific summary We are committed to providing equal opportunity to that can be used in conjunction with the UN Universal Periodic Review mechanism to identify and develop strategies everyone in all aspects of work, including: recruitment, for tackling structural discrimination globally. This project selection, training, promotion, redeployment, performance was ‘Commended’ in the category of Social Responsibility improvement measures, disciplinary and grievance of the European FT Innovative Lawyers Awards 2014 for its procedures, redundancy situations and terms and conditions comprehensive support through research and analysis to of employment. The firm opposes all forms of unlawful help ICAAD in its fight against structural discrimination. discrimination. We believe that individuals should be treated 2. Linklaters makes sure that it is not complicit in according to their merits and that employment-related human rights abuses. decisions should be based on objective job-related criteria. Our firm Global diversity and inclusion In line with the Guiding Principles, we strive to avoid causing Our Global D&I Strategy and Action Plan help us to give or contributing to adverse human rights impacts on our people an enhanced understanding of D&I through training people and in the running of our offices, including in supplier and communications. Our strategy is developed by our procurement, and to address such impacts when they occur. Diversity Manager and partners from across the offices and is Our commitment extends to fostering a working environment championed by leadership, our committees and our people. It that respects and protects internationally proclaimed human helps us to develop locally relevant initiatives in offices around rights and avoids complicity in human rights abuses. the globe. >> The Women’s Leadership Programme ‘Leading Lights’ has Our operations been developed in conjunction with Cranfield School of We have identified our significant environmental impacts Management for our leading female senior lawyers. The as our contribution to climate change through energy use programme aims to increase the proportion of female and business travel, our use of resources, specifically paper, partners who can act as role models in the firm. and our generation and disposal of waste. We measure, monitor >> Unconscious bias training is available to all of our staff. and report our most significant impacts (energy use and >> The firm has an internal global whistleblowing policy which business travel resulting in carbon emissions, waste generated provides an internal procedure for employees to raise and recycled, paper consumption and water use) and set concerns in the public interest and protects employees objectives to reduce these annually. We report these publically against suffering any detriment as a result of making a into the Carbon Disclosure Project and as a complement to relevant disclosure. this are externally audited against both the ISO 14001 and We aim to further promote D&I initiatives more broadly across VeriSustain requirements. the firm. Our systems Diversity and inclusion in our London office Our certified Environmental Management System (EMS) We are committed to increasing the visibility of the actions ensures we assess environmental risk and address those the firm is taking on D&I and to focusing on gender diversity environmental aspects which are of greatest significance to throughout the employment cycle. There are a number of our operations. This system provides us with the structure policies in place that support our D&I initiatives in our largest to identify the legislative requirements applicable to our office including a flexible working policy and our approach to operations globally and build upon these using the skill and shared parental leave in the UK. expertise of our in-house environment and operations teams. We have a firm-wide Global Environmental Policy, the pillar Through our London diversity networks, Linklaters promotes a of our EMS, in which we commit to minimising the potentially culture of inclusion. These include: Allies Network, Black, Asian harmful effects our operations have on the environment and and Minority Ethnic (BAME) Network, Women@Linklaters, to maximising the benefits through a programme of continuous LGB&T Network, Christian Fellowship, Hindu Forum, Islamic improvement in our environmental performance. Society, Jewish Forum and Family & Carers Network. 8. Linklaters  undertakes initiatives to promote greater The Ally programme was launched in 2014, to visibly champion environmental responsibility. D&I and allows Linklaters’ employees to support their colleagues and clients to actively live their values. Allies are people in We aim for best practice, and as a result, have been early majority groups who champion the rights of those in a minority. adopters of a number of initiatives which reduce our impacts on the environment. Examples of these include being one of >> Focus on Social Mobility: The firm’s global community only two global law firms to have achieved ISO 14001 for our investment programme seeks to raise the aspirations global operations and the development of our Energy Focused of disadvantaged young people and uses the skills and Maintenance for engineering teams we have influence over. experience of our people to help them achieve their goals. We work with PRIME, which supports access to the legal Raising awareness profession in the UK for young people, regardless of We aim to raise awareness and staff engagement on their background. We were appointed as Social Mobility environmental issues through effective internal communication. Champions of the Social Mobility Business Compact by the We celebrate the UN Environment Programme, World Deputy Prime Minister in 2014 for our efforts in addressing Environment Day, to engage our staff in all offices on pertinent varying levels of disadvantage in the legal profession. environmental issues through our global network of over 125 >> Raising awareness on the subject of disability and the environmental champions. We will continue to raise awareness workplace: We participate in OPEN careers events and are about environmental responsibility across the firm. We are members of the Graduate Recruiters Disability Café Club. We members of a number of industry groups in which we share are founding members of the Interlaw Forum on Disabilities, best practice, co-operate and educate ourselves on areas we a group of law firms across the city working together to break can improve. An example of this is our executive membership down the stigma of disability. We are also founding members of the Legal Sector Alliance: Acting on Climate Change in which of the City Mental Health Alliance, through which we work we collaborate with all those in the legal industry in reducing with leading disability charities, MIND and SCOPE. environmental impacts and promoting a sustainable future. >> External benchmarking: The UK National Equality Standard Collaboration with our clients is the first standard developed by businesses to bring We collaborate with some of our clients and make transparent clarity and consistency to their efforts to tackle inequality our carbon mitigation strategies, responding to sustainability and promote inclusion. Linklaters has become the first benchmarking platforms, such as CDP and Ecovadis, and organisation to achieve this certification. sharing progress. This ensures we are able to share our environmental responsibilities and also becomes an opportunity Environment for us to drive forward sustainability in our own supply chain. 7. Linklaters supports a precautionary approach 9. L  inklaters encourages the development and diffusion of to environmental challenges. environmentally friendly technologies. Our practice Our Environment and Climate Change practice advises clients We believe our greatest contribution to today’s environmental on climate change, carbon capture and storage. The firm challenges is supporting fee-paying and pro bono clients in received the 2014 FT European Most Innovative Law Firm in both managing their own environmental impacts and assessing Finance Law Award for its work on the Green Deal, Smart and responding to climate-related legal risks. Our clients rely on Metering and Thames Tideway projects, creating bespoke the team’s cutting-edge expertise in the environmental issues securitisation structures based on new regulatory frameworks that will affect global trade for years to come. Our Environment to finance energy and infrastructure projects. The FT judges and Climate Change practice advises clients on the scope and highlighted the Thames Tideway project for “its complicated application of the Equator Principles, as well as lender’s liability, and innovative financing structure”. ethical investment and corporate governance. We are committed to reducing our greenhouse gas emissions Rule of Law through improvements in the energy efficiency of our Linklaters publicly supports rule of law and good governance. premises, including incorporating low-carbon technologies. We were signatory to a letter to the UN Secretary General in We have invested in technologies which will reduce the relation to the post-2015 development agenda in which we energy we use in our operations. For example, in a bid to expressed “our strong support for the continued inclusion of reduce business travel, we have implemented telepresence meaningful rule of law goals and targets. Improving access facilities in our Frankfurt, London, Hong Kong and New to justice, fighting corruption, combatting human trafficking, York offices. We have also enhanced our video conferencing strengthening governance and promoting peaceful and facilities across our global network of offices. In recent inclusive societies are building blocks for both advancing times, we have measured that up to 54% of bookings in a and financing every aspect of the new development agenda”. 12-month period to use these facilities state that business air We will continue to engage with key stakeholders in working travel has been avoided as a result. against corruption. Anti-Bribery and Corruption Another example of our support for the rule of law can be seen in an innovative and award-winning pro bono project. 10. L  inklaters works against corruption in all its forms, A team of over 200 lawyers completed the ambitious task of including extortion and bribery. producing an indexed digest of the jurisprudence of Liberia Operational Intelligence Group from 1860 to 2012. Judges and lawyers in Liberia are now The Operational Intelligence Group comprises a cross-practice able to access, consider and build upon Liberian case team dedicated to addressing clients’ regulation, risk and precedent. This reinforces the rule of law which was severely governance challenges in a holistic and a multi-disciplinary disrupted during the political upheaval and civil wars. The way. We advise multi-national clients, in the financial services digest marks the beginning of a new era in Liberian law by sector and in the non-financial services sectors, on a range of minimising the potential for inconsistent judicial decisions. issues such as anti-bribery, sanctions, anti-money laundering The project serves as a replicable model of sustainability and legislation and data privacy. We understand that our clients best practice. need us to be ahead of the game, so we work across practices Global policies and geographies to help clients track and assess trends, We are committed to uphold the rule of law and to act with manage their ‘licence to operate’, mitigate risks to their integrity in every jurisdiction in which we operate. Reports to a business and demonstrate good governance. management committee of the firm contain an assessment of International governance reputational risk including corruption risks. There are internal Linklaters is a leader in governance and its particular policies and processes in place where staff can raise anything challenges in emerging markets, having unique experience in they believe may have adverse reputational consequences for navigating the relationships between public and private actors, the firm in respect of anti-bribery and corruption. and serving as fluent interpreters in complex environments. Supply chain The firm’s International Governance and Development practice Our suppliers are asked during a tender process to provide hosts an annual seminar Advancing Good Governance in information and assurance on the topic of anti-bribery and International Development, which brings together senior corruption. Further, our standard terms and conditions with government officials, members of the not-for-profit community, third party suppliers include prohibitions on bribery and academics and the private sector to discuss, and take steps requirements to comply with all national laws intended to toward solving, some of the greatest challenges facing the prevent bribery and corruption. Linklaters will work towards international development sector as part of the firm’s Clinton including responsible purchasing principles in its global Global Initiative Commitment to Action. On 5 September 2014, signatory organisers and delegates of the seminar urged the Sourcing Policy. international community to make good governance a standalone goal in the post-2015 development agenda. Our commitments for 2015 1. Linklaters will continue to implement its human rights 6. Linklaters will aim to further promote diversity and inclusion policy and guidelines across the firm. initiatives more broadly across our global network of offices. 2. Linklaters will explore training and learning for its staff 7. Linklaters will improve its environmental management to increase their understanding of how human rights system following the revision of the Global ISO 14001 considerations are relevant to their day-to-day work. standard in 2015. 3. Linklaters will continue to implement policies relating to 8. L inklaters will continue to raise awareness about labour rights across all our operations. environmental responsibility across the firm. 4. Linklaters will continue to trial methods of collecting 9. Linklaters will continue investing in environmentally efficient and analysing human rights-related information from technologies and related improvements to our offices. third party suppliers. 10. L inklaters will continue to engage with key stakeholders 5. Linklaters will work towards including responsible in working against corruption in different sectors. purchasing principles in its global Sourcing Policy. Assurance: This Communication on Progress has been externally reviewed using independent proprietary methodology. linklaters.com/responsibility GC3840_F/01.15 Linklaters LLP is a limited liability partnership registered in England and Wales with registered number OC326345. The term partner in relation to Linklaters LLP is used to refer to a member of the LLP or an employee or consultant of Linklaters LLP or any of its affiliated firms or entities with equivalent standing and qualifications. A list of the names of the members of Linklaters LLP and of the non-members who are designated as partners and their professional qualifications is open to inspection at its registered office, One Silk Street, London EC2Y 8HQ, England or on www.linklaters.com and such persons are either solicitors, registered foreign lawyers or European lawyers.
