corporate sustainability Report 2014 Sustainable Perspectives How we create value for people, the business and the environment Contents This is SEB Front cover CEO statement 1 Our role and approach SEB’s role in society2–3 Global outlook, challenges and opportunities  4–5 Stakeholder dialogues6–7 Material issues8–9 A sustainable business strategy10–11 Objectives and performance 12–13 Integrating sustainability into business 14–15 Driving the agenda 16–17 Responsible business Responsible selling and marketing 18–20 Tackling financial crime 21 Responsible investments 22–25 Sustainable finance 26–29 Project financing, examples 30 Environment Reducing our environmental footprint 31 People and community Valuing our people 32–35 Investing in communities 36–38 Access to financial services 39 Governance of corporate sustainability 40–41 About this report  42 GRI Index 43–47 Key Performance Indicators 49–55 Auditor’s report 56 Awards, sustainability indices, contacts Inside back cover on Kno uti wle trib dg n eco ntribution Responsible no mi Business ic co Eth nom cc ics Eth o eco Knowledge nd ics and ea To be the trusted partner for customers with aspirations People and Environment Community Kn Ethics ow tio n le d g e and e t ri b u co n o m i c co n SEB’s approach to sustainability focuses on three areas. Through our work, we aim to create mutual value to our stakeholders and contribute to sustainable development. THIS IS SEB seb is a relationship bank strongly committed to deliver customer value. We believe in building on our heritage of entrepreneurship, international outlook and long-term perspective. SEB’s offerings and services are provided through five divisions. Merchant Banking Life Baltic Commercial and investment banking Life insurance services for private Banking and advisory services to services to large corporate and instituindividuals and corporate customers, private individuals and small and tional clients in 20 countries, mainly in mainly in Sweden, Denmark and the medium-sized corporate customers in the Nordic region and Germany. Baltic countries. Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania. Retail Banking Operating profit per division Banking and advisory services to private SEK m individuals and small and medium-sized • Merchant Banking 9,088 (8,171) • Life 2,066 (1,892) corporate customers in Sweden as • Retail Banking 6,622 (5,743) • Baltic 1,445 (1,280) well as card operations in the Nordic • Wealth Management 2,258 (1,610) • Other 1,869 (–569) countries. Wealth Management Asset management, including mutual SEK funds, and private banking services to 23,348 m institutional clients and high net worth individuals in the Nordic countries. Our corporate objectives Our strategic priorities To be the leading Nordic corporate bank and to be the top • Long-term customer relationships universal bank in Sweden and the Baltic region. • Growth within areas of strength • Resilience and flexibility Our vision Our mission To be the trusted partner for To help people and businesses thrive by providing quality customers with aspirations. advice and financial services. Corporates & SME customers Private individuals institutions In all, SEB serves approximately SEB has approximately 4 million priSEB’s corporate customers in the 400,000 small and medium-sized vate individuals among its customers Nordic region are among the largest in companies in Sweden and the Baltic in Sweden and the Baltic countries. their respective industries. In Germany countries. Of these some 246,000 Of these some 1,3 million are home they range from large mid-­corporates are home bank customers. bank customers. In addition, SEB to large multinationals. The institutionhas around 27,000 private banking al clients operate both in the Nordic customers in and outside Sweden. countries and internationally. 3,000 246,000 large corporations home bank customers 1.3 million home bank customers and institutions president’s statement creating value for all stakeholders SEB is a bank with a clear aim to take an active role and contribute to the overall development of society. We strive to meet our stakeholders’ expectations in a responsible way to create value for all of them. We do this by integrating sustainability into our core business. ANNIKA FALKENGREN. president and ceo W e are experiencing our stakeholders. Therefore, we have active bank in the world in terms extra-ordinary times. taken a clear stance to fully integrate of assisting companies and organGrowth is subdued. sustainability into our core business. isations issuing green bonds. The Inflation is at very low Our sustainability work is based total market more than tripled just levels. Interest rates are at historic on international co-operation. We last year and has now reached USD low levels and even negative, while are committed to global initiatives as 55bn issued globally. We launched years of central bank liquidity for example the UN Global Comour second microfinance fund for support has boosted asset prices. In pact, the Principles for Responsible institutional clients, investments addition, in 2014 we saw heightened Investments and the Equator Printhat are used to fund microloans to geopolitical risks following the ciples. Our core values and internal individuals in developing countries. distressing events in Ukraine and guidelines such as Code of Business In our role as owner and member of in the Middle East. The discussions Conduct mirror these principles. corporate nomination committees, on how to tackle global issues such we nominated more female directors as increased social challenges and Deeper understanding than in any previous year. climate change intensified. An among employees environment like this poses even We have taken major steps in our our integration Continues larger demands on corporates to take work on sustainability over the past Clearly, we have advanced during the a long-term perspective and conduct five years. Closing the books on 2014, past year, moving from sustainability their business in a sustainable way. it is clear that this groundwork has seen as something “additional”, now We strive to do so in SEB. yielded results. Our employees have a being critical for our future success. much deeper understanding of what This is a journey that never ends. We In partnership sustainability means for us as a bank will continuously work to integrate with our customers and how each and every one can sustainability aspects into everything Founded close to 160 years ago in make an impact. We see this in our we do. We will strengthen dialogues the service of entrepreneurs and yearly employee survey, Insight. with our customers and other stakeenterprise, SEB has a deeply rooted Our Group wide position holders, enhance knowledge and ambition to work in active and close statements and sector policies have engagement, actively using our role partnership with our customers. The proven valuable tools in dialogues in society to be a positive force for best way we can fulfil our role as with our corporate customers sustainable development. lubricant for the overall economy is by and have been tightened, with an building deep customer relationships increased focus on human rights Stockholm, March, 2015 on the basis of a sound and robust issues. Back in 2008, we were financial position. At the same time, pioneers in developing green bonds Annika Falkengren we need to cater to the needs of all and have since then been the most President and Chief Executive Officer SEB Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 1 OUR role and approach SEB’s role in society Economic and financial needs Financial markets are at the core of creating economic and social value in a modern society. The key role of banks as financial engines is carried out in three main areas: Financial intermediation Banks provide solutions for those with Financial money to invest and for those in need of P borrowing and act as safe and efficient intermediaries between them. Risk m Payments Banks provide domestic and international payment services, which are the basis for all economic activity. Risk management Banks assume risk and assist customers with financial risk management. As all these areas are essential to society, banks are an integral part of the economy. Examples: Corporate, institutional and public sector customers Financial Risk intermediation Payments management • Access to financial • Cash management • Advice markets • Cards • Tools to manage • Access to capital • Giro credit, equity, • Advice • Transfers interest and • Financing • Trade finance currency risk • Asset management • Foreign exchange • Custody • Digital and • Liquidity mobile management banking 2 SEB Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 OUR role and approach Financial intermediation Payments VALUE DISTRIBUTION Risk management (SEK 39bn) SEK 11,189m SEB creates ECONOMIC value Like all banks, SEB supports the economy and overall society SEK 10,382m intermediation by providing financial services to private individuals, corporate, ayments institutional and public sector, customers and to society at large. anagement These activities also benefit the Bank’s other stakeholders: shareholders, the public sector, employees and suppliers. SEK 7,847m SEK 9,350m Financial intermediation Payments Risk management Examples: Examples: Society at large Private individuals Financial Risk Financial Risk intermediation Payments management intermediation Payments management • Facilitation of • Domestic payment • Complementary • Consumer loans • Bank accounts • Health insurance investments systems health and • Accessible savings • Cards • Life insurance • Operation of • International pension insurance • Mortgage financing • Currencies • Pension financial markets payment systems • Economic forecasts • Access to financial • Payments • Long-term savings (money, capital, •  Anti-money markets • Giro • Advice currency) and laundering • Internet and clearing • Economic mobile banking • Facilitation of and specialist access to capital knowledge • Access to financial markets SEB Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 3 OUR role and approach GLOBAL OUTLOOK, challenges and opportunities As a bank we have a central role to play in sustainable development. We have direct as well as indirect impacts on the communities where we operate. As global trends change, we need to continuously develop our operations in order to meet our stakeholders’ needs today and tomorrow. 4 SEB Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 OUR role and approach 1 3 global economy Climate change and Even though the world economy shows signs of stabilisation and we are seeing increased activity among our resource strains Nordic and German corporate customers, the recovery The recent reports of IPCC clearly demonstrate has been sluggish. The macro-economic situation has a the dangers of the present trajectory of greenmajor impact on our customers’ levels of activity and thus house gas emissions. The oceans are at present on our business. Record-low and even negative interest buffering some of the effects, but the risks of rates have resulted in the cost of money never being as extreme weather, sea level rise and desertifilow as today. In spite of stimulatory efforts, the economic cation – to name but a few – are rising. Poor development remains uncertain. countries with insufficient infrastructure and institutions are likely to suffer most. As the global population grows, and as incomes rise, production will soar – as will the demands for natural resources. In some areas strains are clearly visible. A rising portion of the global population lacks fresh water. Pollution is 2 rising rapidly in the megacities of the emerging economies. Farmland and wetlands are social challenges increasingly scarce. Consequently, there is a need to economize scarce natural resources and At a global level, rising incomes have led to a growing produce and consume in a way which creates middle class and a reduced share of the very poor. Howa minimum of waste. This presupposes large ever, we also see deepening income inequality, risking investments and rapid technological change. the creation of a big class of people outside the mainstream of society. Unemployment, particularly among youth, is a severe challenge. In many countries populations are aging rapidly. More resources need to be poured into health care and pensions systems. Private individuals need to take a greater respon= sibility for their financial security. Public finances will be tested. An inflow of young immigrants can alleviate the problems – but that necessitates successful measures to Great business integrate the new citizens into the national labour and housing markets. possibilities These four trends provide challenges as well as great business opportunities. Companies must act long-term and be good citizens. The strain on natural resources means that companies which are lean, resource-saving and productive have an 4 edge. Those who can tap the talent resources of minorities and excluded groups on the labour market will not only help reduce unemployment, but also gain access to new skills that will be necDemands on banks essary in the future global economy. Banks that are changing integrate social and environmental aspects into their financing and investment activities will Regulatory authorities have taken a more over-arching and strengthen their risk management and be better in-depth approach to strengthen stability in the financial business partners for their customers. markets as well as in every individual financial institution. Simultaneously, the digital development Concurrently, measures have been adopted for improved creates opportunities to improve services and functionality and infrastructure in the financial markets as accessibility. Moreover, the banking sector well as enhanced consumer protection. as a whole can invest in developing common The rapid digital development leads to raised customer technology platforms, customer-oriented infraexpectations on accessibility, efficiency and speed while structure and modern functionality. their demand for qualified advice increases. Safety and Those banks which credibly show that they security are crucial. New business models are being develstrive to build a sustainable business strategy oped, particularly in the market for payment services, will have a head start in creating new long-term leading to competitive pressure on traditional banking. business opportunities. SEB Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 5 OUR role and approach We engage with stakeholders nt & regulators ernme Gov active engagement with seb’s stakeholders is a cornerstone in our efforts to understand their expectations and concerns. s mor Custo ee e th m oy an er Listening and learning from our stakeholders provide us pl 000 4m s ors Em 6 etit with essential insights, enabling us to respond and address 1 illion the issues they raise. Med mp ia Co We use a range of mechanisms for engagement as well as for gathering and monitoring of feedback across our business. The backbone consists of ongoing and specific surveys, complemented by deeper engagement dialogues. C in s o m m u r ld e S h a re h o In addition, we participate in industry forums as well as om ni e 20 t i e s 0 270 00 international and national sustainability forums to discuss emerging challenges and trends. s countries SEB’s internal Corporate Sustainability Summit, held in November 2014, enabled us to engage with many ps Ci gr employees around sustainability, to learn about priorities vil so Su ppl rs ou cie iers & r tne at e and generate ideas for improved processes and products. ty b u si n e s s p a oc org a dv a ni 13 000 er s at i um ons Co n s Stakeholder Primary engagement channels Main issues raised during 2014 Customers Tracking and analysis of customer insight • Long-term customer relations surveys, focus groups, feedback and complaints • Proactivity received via our customer advisors and relation• Customer recognition ship managers, telephone banks, online, and • Customer service across all meeting points local branch teams. Internal customer insight • Accessibility of e-services web portal hosting surveys such as Prospera, • Ethics Needscope, SEB Brand Tracking, Reputation • Transparency and openness Index, SKI (Swe), Finansbarometern (Swe). Employees Annual employee survey, open internal chats • Development/career opportunities with executive management, town hall meetings, • Organisation and culture value dialogues, SEB Way transformations and • Leadership weekly continuous development whiteboard • Transparency and openness meetings, leadership development programmes, • Health/work life balance everyday learning tools, Workers Councils meet• Working with sustainability ings; annual health and safety reviews. • Remuneration • Work methods and IT systems Shareholders, Surveys such as Bloomberg, RobecoSAM, Vigeo, • Financial resilience investors and Sustainalytics, Oekom and Imug. Road-shows, in• Sustainable growth and return analysts vestor meetings, briefings, engagement dialogues, • Sustainability performance questions received prior to and during AGM’s and • Human capital in connection with result presentations. • Transparency Government and Economic and policy trend analysis, industry • Regulation regulators forums and meetings. • Consumer debt levels Suppliers and Questionnaires and individual meetings, supplier • Strategic partnerships business partners screening process. • Accountability Communities, civil Research – general public, local community • Job-creation society organisations, engagements, round table discussions, regular • Ethical behaviour, transparency consumer advocate meetings with NGO’s, mentoring, volunteering, • Human rights and nuclear weapons groups, media CS forums, research papers, media coverage. • Sustainable performance • Local community support • Profitability versus customer value 6 SEB Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 OUR role and approach views and expectations what do our stakeholders think of how we perform our sustainability work? Their views and expectations are critical for our continuous development and ability to create long-term value. Below, representatives from four stakeholder perspectives state their opinions. Mats tainability report is in many respects Marie Andersson a model. There are clear, decomposed Baumgarts Chief Executive goals that can be measured, and as Head of Corporate Officer, AP4 the saying goes: what gets measured Responsibility, (investor) gets managed. It is also evident that Tele2 (supplier and corporate sustainability is a focal customer) What are the strengths of point for SEB’s CEO and executive SEB’s sustainability work? management, which is a prerequisite What are the strengths of No company can be successful in the for the issue to gain priority throughSEB’s sustainability work? long run unless corporate sustainaout the organisation. SEB started out as an early bird in bility issues are high on its agenda. conducting high level stakeholder That is why it has become increasingWhat can we do better? dialogues and reporting them to the ly important for a long-term investor An area for further improvement Executive team. That gave a good posuch as the Fourth Swedish National would be to even more clearly sition early on while others were still Pension Fund to follow sustainabilconnect corporate sustainability trying to figure out the concept. Anity efforts of the companies it has strategy to the bank’s lending and other strength is the honest ambition invested in, such as SEB. SEB’s susfinancing services. and commitment to further integrate sustainability into investments and operations, I think that will serve them well when navigating in a world Jussi highly appreciate that SEB’s position of constant transformation. Penttilä statements and sector policies are Vice President committed to topics like freshwater, What can we do better? Finance, Outotec, mining and metals which are also in Speed up and dare more! That goes (customer) the core of Outotec’s business. for all multinationals in general, us included. We, as companies, have a What are the strengths of SEB’s What can we do better? common responsibility in integrating sustainability work? We just encourage SEB to contincorporate responsibility into our Outotec’s mission is “Sustainable ue the good work. Sustainabilcore business processes. This being use of Earth’s natural resources” ity targets can be reached most specifically important for investors and Outotec intends to incorporate efficiently when financial markets in making the right (sustainable) sustainability into all aspects of its and industries continue to integrate choices. operations. From our perspective we cooperation with each other. Žymantas recourses, promoting more sus­­tain­ What can we do better? Morkvėnas able and “greener” business. As part of the environmental Direktor, Baltic To create more favourable condistrategy, the bank could further Environmental tions for the sustainable business improve by measuring its environForum (NGO) and raising awareness among mental performance on the annual their clients how they can improve basis making it as a standard annual What are the strengths of SEB’s environ­mental performance could procedure. Moreover, it is important sustainability work? lead to most influential change. It to continue informing bank’s staff as SEB’s most significant contribution would be important if SEB would well as their clients about the for making our environment cleaner fix this course in its environmental concreate achievements and new and well balanced co-existent with business strategy and start taking goals set for the coming years. nature is streaming its financial real steps forward. SEB Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 7 OUR role and approach identifying the material issues Materiality is about identifying the issues that are of most concern to our stakeholders as well as to our own business. They influence stakeholders’ perception of our performance and impact our ability to create and sustain value. SEB has an established process to identify these issues and to prioritise them. what is most our process to how do we why and for whom? important? identify the issues manage them? seb’s process for identifying the most material issues During the year, we have further developed the is based on an on-going engagement with our stakeholdmateriality process established in 2013. In order to ers in combination with our own assessment of issues facilitate both internal and external understanding of that are of strategic importance for business. The main our material issues, we have grouped identified issues. engagement channels with key stakeholder groups, as Detailed explanation of these issues can be found at our well as the main issues raised, are described on page 6. website www.sebgroup.com/sustainability. The essential input gained from stakeholders is Although many issues remain material over time, we complemented by desk research on emerging societal, have identified a few issues that have become more imporeconomic, environmental and business trends impacting tant during the year. In 2013, the carbon bubble was seen our business. Issues identified are evaluated from both a as an emerging issue which required monitoring. Develstakeholder and a business perspective and how they inopments in 2014 clearly illustrate that this is an important fluence SEB’s ability to create and sustain value on a three issue that we will need to continue to respond to. We do to five year perspective. This input informs our strategic this through our work with integrating ESG in financing approach and guides our focus for reporting. and investments. For material Aspects and Boundaries in accordance Digitisation has also become even more important. Alwith Global Reporting initiative G4, please see p 43 – 47 together, our latest assessment has confirmed that SEB to a (GRI Index). large extent has been prioritising the most important issues. 8 SEB Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 OUR role and approach The issues that matter most this chart presents an assessment and rating of issues identified as important, to SEB as well as to our stakeholders. A majority of these issues were ranked as highly relevant for both stakeholders and business, such as customer loyalty (1), financial strength (2) and digitisation (4). Issues like SEB’s direct environmental impact (H) and financial inclusion (I) were seen as less important to all stakeholders as well as for SEB’s business. Very high 1+2 3 7 5 4 8 6 9 10 Importance to SEB’s stakeholders 11 A B G C D F High E H I The vertical axis shows the degree of importance to stakeholders, the horizontal axis shows SEB’s assessment of how important the areas are to Medium the business strategy and operations. Medium High Very high Importance to SEB’s business Important for multiple Important for some stakeholder groups stakeholder groups 1. Customer loyalty and experience A. Sustainability profiled products and services 2. Financial strength and resilience B Resource efficiency in society 3. Responsible selling and consumer advice C. Supporting entrepreneurship 4. Digitisation D. Tax transparency and public affairs etc 5. Business ethics and culture E. Responsible sourcing 6. Risk management F. Working conditions 7. Talent management G. Engaging in local communities 8. Employee engagement H. Direct environmental impact 9. Integrating ESG in financing and investments I. Financial inclusion 10. Capacity for innovation 11. Data protection SEB Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 9 OUR role and approach LONG-TERM focus AND RELATIOnSHIPS SEB’s strategic focus remains. Long-term customer relationships built upon a strong financial position form the foundation for sustainable profitability. This creates value for our customers, shareholders, employees, suppliers – and therefore for society as a whole. seb was founded in the service of enterprise nearly At SEB we offer not only high-quality products and ser160 years ago and has always played an active part in vices – we also build long-term relationships by sharing the development of the societies and markets in which it our expertise and know-how with our customers. We operates. By assisting customers with financing, secure safeguard our customers’ financial strength by providing payments and wealth management, SEB promotes ecoa customised, holistic offering. nomic development and international trade, contributes Our financial strength –stability, resilience and to financial security and creates value. flexibility – is crucial for maintaining the long-term trust In its ambition to be the leading Nordic bank for coramongst our stakeholders. With this trust and our role porates and financial institutions and the top universal in society comes a responsibility for how we conduct bank in Sweden and the Baltic countries, SEB has adoptour business including how we manage ethical, social ed a strategy based on three pillars: long-term customer and environmental aspects. Together they form the relationships, resilience and flexibility, and growth in foundation for achieving our goals for customer satisfacareas of strength. tion, employee engagement and profitability, and create shareholder value. 11,189 11,330 The Relationship Bank in our part of the world 11,821 SEB contributes to society (examples 2014) 11,762 We support trade • 853 million payments • 782 million card transac10,382 tions 8,719 We finance business • Corporate and property activity management lending 6,500 3,839 SEK 712bn 6,034 We manage custom• Assets under management 7,152 7,847 ers’ securities and SEK 1,708 bn and assets investments under custody SEK 6,763bn 5,967 We provide secure • SEK 246bn of deposits from forms of savings private individuals 10,000 9,300 10,286 9,350 We support local • SEK 17m to entrepreneurcommunities ship and innovation • SEK 7m to education and know-how • SEK 16m to children and youth • Salaries, pensions and • Taxes and fees • SEK 29m to sports benefits to 16,000 employees • Business partners and suppliers (13,000) and culture Rewarding relationships • Dividends to 270,000 shareholders Rewarding relationships are at the core of what we are. We strive to build partnerships based on insight and trust, supporting our customers long-term. SEB’s value distribution (SEK m) SEB contribution: Examples 10 SEB Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 OUR role and approach our strategy we are convinced that a business that encompasses a sustainable perspective is more successful long-term. This entails acting responsibly, being increasingly transparent and making sustainability a natural part of how we conduct our business. Our role as a bank and financial institution provides the framework from which we aim to create mutual value and contribute to sustainable progress. on Kno uti wle SEB’s sustainability strategy targets three areas – trib dg n Responsible Business, People and Community and Envieco ntribution Responsible no ic co ronment. A key aspect of our sustainability work entails mi Business Eth nom our continued commitment to global initiatives such as cc ics Eth o eco Knowledge the UN Global Compact, the UN supported Principles nd ics and for Responsible Investments, UN’s Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, the UN Environment ea To be the trusted partner Programme Finance Initiative, the OECD Guidelines for for customers with aspirations Multinational Enterprises and the Equator Principles. defining the next step People and We believe that we have made good progress in integrating Environment Community sustainability throughout our business and are now in the process of defining the next step. SEB’s internal conference, Kn Ethics Corporate Sustainability Summit, which was held in ow tio n le d g e and e t ri b u November 2014, provided substantial input on key focus co n o m i c co n areas going forward. This complements essential information derived from our regular assessment of issues that matter. We plan to decide on SEB’s forthcoming sustainability plan during the first half of 2015, thereby linking this work closely with SEB’s overall business planning, all aimed to secure a sustainable business going forward. Eight business priorities – our ambitions SEB’s sustainability strategy is Responsible investments Access to financial services focused on eight business priorities Ensure that we perform our Improve accessibility of our ownership role responsibly, banking services, using new within three areas of responsibility. By promoting good business ethics and technology and innovation. Sharing our focus­ing our efforts on these priorities governance. To be the leading Nordic asset expertise to customers and the broader we can contribute to better banking manager within responsible investments. community. Make it easier for customers to governance and protection of the interact with the bank on their own choice environment, while enhancing our Sustainable finance and regardless of physical ability. Increasing dialogues on social contribution. important sustainability issues Investing in communities with customers, using internal policies and As a corporate citizen we engage Responsible selling and international guidelines as key tools. In for future generations. Sustainmarketing all business decisions consider environing and developing long-term partnerships Top customer loyalty. Facilitatmental, social and governance aspects. Inwith people and organisations, together ing customers’ own control and undercrease share of positive impact financing. building a society we all want to be in. standing of their financial situation. Ensure quality advice based on long term needs. Valuing our people Reducing our footprint Top number of employees enContinue managing our direct Tackling financial crime gaged and proud to recommend environmental impact. Be reStrengthen processes for a flexSEB as an inclusive and sound workplace source effective, reduce energy consumpible approach to meet changing with scope for individual development. tion and CO2 emissions. Increase focus threats, focusing on security and safety for Increased diversity at all levels. on sustainability aspects in relations with employees, customers and assets. suppliers and other business partners. SEB Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 11 OUR role and approach Responsible selling Tackling financial crime Responsible investments Sustainable finance and marketing • Further improve customer • Transaction monitoring: • Increased communication on • Enhanced focus on sustainasatisfaction.  More sophisticated risk active ownership activities bility in strategy discussions. Objectives 2014 • Further focus on the cusgrading of transactions. and impact analysis • Develop and roll-out tomers’ entire economy • Create overarching responsiroundtable discussions on and needs. ble investment framework for corporate sustainability. • Building on long-term relaall asset classes. • Review of existing sector tionship with all customers • Continue to develop and policies. and continue the strategic refine ESG investment • Additional focus on EP III focus on entrepreneurship. products for all distribution training linked to projectchannels. related corporate loans. Status • Customer experience • Strengthened internal • External blog activity started. • The sector policy for arms strengthened, reflected collaboration. Acknowledged as one of and defence clarified and in the SKI-index (Swedish • Additional resources with the owners that managed sharpened. Quality Index). Among the IT-security competence. to nominate the highest • Implementation of the new Performance 2014 major banks on the private number of women to boards Equator Principles (EP III). • Implementation of additionmarket in Sweden, SEB in listed companies. al transaction limits, creat• C S part of ongoing dialogue increased the most and the • Responsible investment ing a stop loss for fraud. with most medium and large number 2 position was conframework covering all asset • Ability to stop payments to corporate clients. firmed. On the corporate classes launched. side SEB increased more known mule accounts. • Targeted training of client • Launch SEB Microfinance executives in the Baltic than industry average. Fund, II and Domestica II banks. • Launch of new holistic and (real estate fund). simplified savings offering • Energy related loan portfolio and customer offering tarincludes 27% renewable geting young entrepreneurs. energy, and less than 2% of coal. • Further enhance customer • Launch of new e-learning • Continued ESG integration in • Continue to grow green experience and satisfaction tools to increase awareness portfolio management. product range. in all segments. of Know-Your-Customer • Enhance communication to • Increase share of renewable • Secure relevant and holistic process and risks of money support customers around energy financing. advisory based on the laundering. responsible investments. • Enhanced trainings on susObjectives 2015 customer’s whole economy • Launch of documentary • Further development of ESG tainability throughout SEB. and needs. film on fraud and money focused products, such as • Continued focus on dia• Taking further steps in laundering cases. green bond fund. logues with clients around supporting entrepreneurs • Explore how Big Data can sustainability, to use this as and engaging in local combe used for early fraud a tool for better understandmunities. detection. ing of client needs. • Review and update of SEB’s Code of Business Conduct. 12 SEB Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 OUR role and approach Valuing our people Access to financial services Investing in communities Reducing our footprint • Further improve employee en• Develop and enhance the digital • Deepen employee social engage• Assessment of our largest gagement, e.g. through value and mobile offering for private ment as a tool for health support. suppliers (covering 80% of dialogues and activities from and corporate customers. • Further develop engagement in spend) from a sustainability diversity initiatives. • Further focus on multi-channel local communities towards youth. perspective. • Aligning work environment to banking (based on sound adviso• Strengthen internal awareness • Continue CO2 reduction toOHSAS 18001, international ry) making it easier for all customof entrepreneurship and of our wards target of –45% by 2015. occupational health and safety ers to interact with the bank. community investments. • Reduce electricity usage with management systems (Swe). 2.5% per year on average • Implementing the global leadership programme Art of Execution. • Improved Employee Engage• All digital customer interfaces • Mentor is part of health program. • 176 of our largest suppliers, ment index 75 (70) as a result were updated with the aim to Feel good by doing good. covering 60% of our spend, from several engagement enhance customer experience • Support for children and young assessed. activities across SEB. and user friendliness. adults widened in 2014, reaching • Direct CO2 emmissions • Alignment of OHSAS 18001 • In 2014, 96 per cent of Swedish 10,000 members of the future reduced by about 42% since accomplished. Certification yet retail customer interactions took generation. 2008. to be done. place in a digital and mobile • Increased communication of • Reduction in electricity use • Art of Execution implemented environment. Access to financial community investments. comparing 2014 vs 2013 by globally. Three programmes information has improved and er11%. accomplished during 2014, rands that were to be carried out • Travel distance increased comcovering 75 leaders. in a branch office is now possible paring 2014 vs 2013 by 10%. in other channels. • Further improve Employee • Further improvements and more • Strengthen impact measures. • Continue to assess our largest Engagement (+1) through accessibility for the customers’ • Further improve governance and suppliers to cover 70% of our different initiatives encouraging entire economy in all digital and enhance knowledge about our spend. dialogue and collaboration cross mobile interfaces. commitments. • Continue CO2 reduction toorganisation. • Further steps in improving cuswards target of –45% by 2015. • Further steps into supporting en• Certification of OHSAS 18001, tomer value through the multitrepreneurs in local communities. • Reduce electricity usage with international occupational channel concept with the aim to 5% per year on average. health and safety management further enhance accessibility and • Increase our renewable systems. simplicity for the customer. electricity consumption to • Implementation of developover 90% of total electricity ment program for potential consumption. leaders; Green House. • Reduce CO2 emissions from • Increased gender balance at company cars by 10% vs. 2014. senior managerial level. • Reduce paper consumption by 11% vs. 2014. SEB Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 13 OUR role and approach Integrating sustainability into business SEB believes in taking an active part and contributing to the development of society. We are convinced that the best way to do this is by integrating sustainability into our core business, in our daily way of working throughout the organisation. Over the past years, we have made progress within all areas but still have challenges to overcome. cecilia joachim Mats christoffer widebäck west alpen torstendahl malmer Head of Corporate Sustainability Co-head of Merchant Banking Head of the Retail Banking Head of Wealth Management What are SEB’s main sustainaWhat are your main sustainaWhat are your main sustainaWhat are your main sustainability achievements in 2014? bility achievements in 2014? bility achievements in 2014? bility achievements in 2014? Our Corporate Sustainability The development of green Most of our customer interThrough active ownership we Summit, held in November bonds has been impresactions take place or start in a work to increase the number 2014 with 300 participants, sive with USD 55bn issued digital or mobile environment. of women on boards of comclearly showed that the whole globally, more than tripled During the year we have taken panies we invest in. In 2014 of SEB now is on board on the compared to 2013. SEB further steps in developing all we managed to nominate sustainability journey. People remains the world leader and our channels with the aim more female directors than are involved and engaged and 2014 has been a year when we to improve the customers’ in any previous year. We also realise that sustainability is expanded globally. We have access to financial informacontinued to increase our for real and a critical factor also intensified our work, tion and advisory. Simplicity, range of sustainability related for future business success. more staff than ever before accessibility and advisory are products. This now comprises Besides valuable inspiration participated in discussions on key for our customers and by equities, fixed income, real from external speakers, the our sector policies and posiproviding them with core estate, private equity, hedge most important contribution tion statements to clarify what competence and user friendly funds and microfinance, was the exchange of ideas and we consider best practice. solutions we help them in which makes us unique the lively discussions around These are important in our managing their own finances. among the Swedish banks. important sustainability topstrategic dialogue with our Customer interactions in moWithin our fixed income ics. I am convinced that many clients, as well as a corner bile or digital environments funds, we also opt for green of the ideas generated will be stone for decisions made in reduce the need for traveling bonds wherever investment realised going forward. Merchant Banking’s business but also, by using secure digiguidelines, liquidity and percommittee. tal signatures, the use of paper formance objectives permit. What main sustainability chaldocumentation declines. lenges does SEB have? What main sustainability What main sustainability reWe need to build on the mochallenges do you have? What main sustainability related challenges do you have? mentum created and further As a bank we have indirect lated challenges do you have? Our clients increasingly deenhance knowledge and impact on how our clients We have noticed a surging mand more from us in terms understanding of the many invest. The main driver for us demand for green customer of sustainability products and important sustainability is to deepen the relationships offerings primarily related to stewardship. Sustainability issues. We need to strengthen with our clients and to ensure savings. This is something we has no precise definition and our processes as well as our that our employees always inwill continue to develop in all is to some extent a moving communication. There is a clude the responsible business customer segments. We will target. SEB’s ambition is to great need to further promote aspects into decisions. What also strengthen the advisory be at the forefront. We want climate friendly and resource new products can we find to around private savings and to support our customers efficient solutions. Partnermeet our clients’ needs? How further promote a sound in their ambitions to make ing with clients and other can we strengthen our support amortisation culture for all sustainable investments. This stakeholders, on how we best even more? We are proud to be our private customers. It is includes enhanced communiuse our resources towards the speaking partner and facilimportant for the customers’ cation about our offering and sustainable development. itator for both institutions and long-term financial resilience how we work with sustainacorporates who strive to make and crucial from a sustainabilbility in our fund range. more sustainable investments. ity perspective. 14 SEB Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 OUR role and approach What are SEB’s main sustainaground work. In 2014, we indirect impact, how we bility achievements in 2014? saw that this work paid off in promote sustainability and For several years we have various external acknowsustainable businesses. This step-by-step worked to inteledgements. Internally, is also an opportunity for us, grate sustainability aspects among our people, we also for example by being a drivinto the business and to see true engagement and a ing force as we have been in make it a core capability. We willingness to contribute to developing green bonds. We have thoroughly elaborated making SEB a sustainable also see that our stakeholders our position statements and value creator in society. have higher expectations on Viveka sector policies, increased us, that we should promote Hirdman-Ryrberg awareness among employees What main sustainability transparency, simplicity and all across SEB and reviewed challenges does SEB have? speed – not least in a more Chair of the Corporate Sustainaseveral business processes. We see increasing demands digitised world. bility Committee Thus, we have made a solid on us of how we handle our Peter David Martin Johan Dahlgren Teare Johansson Andersson Head of the Life division Head of the Baltic division Head of Business Support Chief Risk Officer What are your main sustainaWhat are your main sustainaWhat are your main sustainaWhat are SEB’s main sustainability achievements in 2014? bility achievements in 2014? bility achievements in 2014? bility achievements in 2014? The final size of the pension It feels great to have such In 2014, we have taken further We have now reached a good increasingly depends on the motivated and engaged steps to integrate sustainability deal of maturity throughyield individuals manage to employees in the Baltics. In issues in the operations. 176 out the Bank in applying get by making own invest2014, we boosted awareness company groups have respondour CS framework in the ment choices both in the and general understanding ed to sustainability issues in day-to-day business process, public pension, in occupaof what sustainability means the newly developed screening often discussing sustainabiltional pension schemes and to us. Internalising sustainprocess. Internally, digitisation ity aspects and sometimes in private savings. Conseability is an important step and reducing traditional paper declining business entirely quently, the need for clarity towards making it a natural mailings to customers has givdue to this. Furthermore, the and information about our part of our daily activities en the continued positive effect sector policy for the arms and services grows. By organising to better serve customers. of 25 tonnes less paper condefence industry has been “Occupational Pension Days” Running a series of internal sumption annually and more clarified and tightened, there in 2014, for all SEB employsessions with an exercise fosatisfied customers. Overall, is increased focus on human ees, we took one important cused on individual sustainaSEB has reduced the number of rights issues with exporting step to create awareness of bility journeys has been key to letters with 2.5 million letters companies and the sustainpensions in general and of the achieving this. Furthermore, in 2014. The commitment ability perspective has been occupational pension plan many employees have shown among employees increases to strengthened in the New (BTP) in particular. We will great initiative within their help young people to prepare Product Approval Process. bring this concept further teams and business areas. for the world of work (collaboand offer our large corporate ration with Mentor) and to help What main sustainability customers this as a service in What main sustainability students achieve their dreams challenges does SEB have? addition to their occupational challenges do you have? in the school competition With the risk of sounding pension plans. Better understanding of client Dream Challenge. very traditional, one of a needs is always a top priority. bank’s primary contributions What main sustainability We continuously strive to act What main sustainability to a sustainable society is challenges do you have? on this understanding by prochallenges do you have? responsible credit granting, The increasing interest for susviding new and improved serWe will continue to engage meaning not lending more tainable pension savings envices for our customers. This more employees to support than the customers have the hances the need for pedagogis a challenge as the banking young students in our commucapacity to repay. In the presical and clear communication environment is changing so nity. Our colleagues value the ent extreme low interest rate to customers. Furthermore, rapidly; our clients are also possibility to participate in the environment, many clients also our investments and becoming more demanding, activities, to feel pride and to may be tempted to borrow fund offering are externally which is a great impetus for contribute with their knowmore than is good for them. reviewed and ranked from us to deliver even higher ledge. Our sustainability goals The cornerstones of banking; a sustainability perspective. quality! Looking forward, push us to use new technology responsible lending decisions We need to address how to be we seek to leverage employee and increase the number of and responsible financial admore transparent about our engagement to generate the digital meetings to reduce visory, therefore remain more processes and offerings. most modern and innovative travel and reduce carbon important than ever. solutions for our clients. emissions. SEB Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 15 OUR role and approach driving the agenda SEB actively engages in collaboration forums connected to our business. We are involved in general and sector specific groups, as well as in cross-sector contexts, in all home markets. SEB is not allied to any political parties. We do not provide financial support to any political parties, nor do we make any other type of political donation. swedish bankers’ association among our International commitments This network aims to contribute to a sound and efficient SEB has representatives in various interregulatory framework that facilitates for banks to help crenational finance forums. Lena Andersate economic wealth for customers and society. The Associson, a trade finance specialist within ation drives important issues and highlights the effects of Merchant Banking, is a representative in regulations on the Swedish financial market and the Swedfor example the International Chamish economy. Discussions are held with decision-makers in ber of Commerce (ICC) in Paris and Sweden in parliament, the government, the National Bank The Institute of International Banking Law & Practice and the FSA and other authorities. SEB’s CEO Annika Falk(IIBLP), based in Washington DC. engren is the chairman of the Executive Board since 2014. Cristina Rooth, a lawyer within SEB’s The regulators have continued to focus on the function, Merchant Banking division, is the lone efficiency and stability of the financial markets. SEB is representative from the Nordic region monitoring regulatory developments closely, at the global, on the Legal Committee at the ICC, an European and local levels via Swedish Bankers’ Associa‘under committee’ within the Banking tion, the Swedish Securities Dealers Association and other Commission, the largest out of 13 refersimilar domestic and international associations. SEB is in ence groups within the ICC and particularly known as a frequent contact with the regulators and responds, via rule-making body in trade finance. industry organisations, to a great number of consultations. Eszter Wijkman, Senior Advisor and Client Executive, Merchant Banking, financial cooperation for children represents SEB in The Bankers AssociaSwedish Financial Coalition Against Commercial Sexual tion for Finance and Trade, BAFT. The Exploitation of Children is a cooperation where Swedish association serves as the leading forum banks and financial institutions, ITand telecom compafor bringing the financial community nies interact with ECPAT (End Child Prostitution and Trafand its suppliers together to collaborate on shaping ficking), the Swedish Police, the Swedish Financial Supermarket practices, influencing regulation and legislation visory Authority and the Swedish Departments of Justice through global advocacy. It develops and adapts new and Finance. The purpose is to prevent and obstruct payand existing instruments that facilitate the settlements ments for documented sexual abuse of children through of products and service offerings for clients, providing the Swedish financial system. education and training and contributing to the safety and soundness of the global financial system. Tools and training support integration of training programme was a session on sustainability. sustainability into the Baltic business During this occasion executives learnt about the bank’s As a leading financial services firm SEB seeks to be a stable approach to sustainability, as well as case studies linked and trusted partner for our clients as well as for our partto the sector policies and position statements (read more ners and employees. Integrating sustainability into our on page 26). This forms the basis of a solid understanding processes is key to enhance trust and competence. for client executives when developing customer relations. Seeking to increase awareness of sustainability within the This has also increased competence and allows us to Baltic banks we have both empowered and engaged a high build trust by sharing our values with clients. number of employees through the exercise “My CS JourThe New Product Approval Process was strengthened ney”. This tool helps employees to understand what they in 2014 with a series of training sessions and workshops have done in the past, what they are doing now, and what for employees involved. Awareness and understanding they hope to achieve in the future, related to sustainability. of CS has increased. Additionally, employees now have a At the start of 2014 the bank ran a series of training framework with which to assess CS risks and opportunisessions for client executives. An integral part of this ties when preparing to review new or adjusted services. 16 SEB Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 OUR role and approach Some 20 workshops were held at SEB’s Corporate Sustainability Summit 2014. From the left: Peter Urban, Wealth Management, Lars Millberg, Merchant Banking and Heidi Urbach, Retail Banking. HIGHLIGHTS FROM CS SUMMIT 2014 a sustainability conference gathered some 300 employees from all SEB with the purpose of focusing on Annika Falkengren, CEO SEB, with guest speaker the next steps in SEB’s sustainability work. The conference Ronnie Leten, CEO Atlas Copco. hosted guest speakers like Ronnie Leten, CEO of Atlas Copco, Johan Kuylenstierna, Executive Director at Stockholm Environment Institute and Tom Beckman, Creative Director at Prime. Some 20 workshops were held, aiming to share »Sustainability is not a knowledge and identify concrete actions for creating value for all SEB’s stakeholders. project, but an integral The participants agreed that SEB’s most important part of the Bank’s strategy. accomplishments to date have been the invention of green bonds in 2009, the bank’s position statements and sector Long-term perspective and policies in matters of ownership and credit granting, the sustainability are two sides launch of a microfinance fund, support for young and aspiring entrepreneurs, and establishing a clear structure of the same coin.« for sustainability work. Annika Falkengren, President & CEO Concrete ideas to take further Going forward, the most important issues identified were to continue earning external trust, increase transparency, and to integrate sustainability even further into the business activities. A series of concrete ideas was also discussed which will be taken further. Speaking at the conference, Viveka HirdmanRyrberg, Head of Group Communications and Chair of SEB’s Corporate Sustainability Committee, said: “We began by setting a strategy for our sustainability work. We have now taken the next step where sustainability is integrated in the Bank’s overall strategy. Most important is how we run our core business, how we lend, invest, and how we identify opportunities and manage risks in a long-term sustainable manner.” Fredrik Boheman, Head of SEB in Germany SEB Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 17 OUR PRIORITIES. responsible business responsible selling and marketing What’s the issue? Relationships and trust are the foundation of everything we do as bank. Our customers entrust us not only their money but also their aspirations and their plans for the future. In a society with a high rate of change, where uncertainty and complexity increases, there is a growing need to feel secure and confident, not least for the finances. It is our job to share our knowledge, provide responsible advice, tools and opportunities for our customers to make wise choices. 18 SEB Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 OUR PRIORITIES. responsible business »1 200 employees have at 60 occasions, accomplished Code of Business Conduct class room trainings.« The starting point for all our business is built upon our core values – commitment, mutual respect, continuity and professionalism. They permeate our way of working and form the foundation of our corporate culture. Responsible advisory among employees. With the SwedSec license, all employIntegrity and high ethical standards shall permeate ees who work with advising towards customers have a everything we do. Our Code of Business of Conduct is an clear proof that they have relevant experience in both important tool that guides us in our business relations investment advisory and insurance broking. when needed. We want to ensure that our customers have a sound We strive to make sure that our customers understand financial position and we were the first Swedish bank to the consequences of our advice and we continuously introduce amortisation requirements for mortgages when deepen and broaden knowledge and understanding value ratios are above 70 per cent. Facilitating daily finances Net Promoter Score 2014 SEB wants to make it easier for customers to gain control and get a 0 20 40 60 80 comprehensible view of their financial situation. We offer comprehen33 sive solutions; customer targeted packages as well as more individually adapted portfolios and investment advice. 30 48 Our advisory offering to small and medium-sized enterprise 40 (SME) customers caters not only to company and owner financial 33 needs, but also the needs of employees. By the Enkla (“Simplicity”) 30 50 concept, we make banking easy to understand and to use. It comprises lending, deposits, custody, pensions and SME banking. In 2014, 40 we launched “Enkla firman student”, an offering to student entrepreSweden • SME neurs, making it easier to run a business while studying. • SME Retail customers In Lithuania, a new financial advisory concept was introduced, to Baltic: • Retail customers be launched in all three Baltic countries during 2015. Target • Euro introduction in Lithuania On January 1, Lithuania became the 19th country to join the euro zone. Preparation for the change to the euro in SEB Lithuania started more than a year and a half ago and the change process itself went smoothly. A euro adoption related campaign was run advising customers of the most effective and simple transition from one currency to another. On January 1, 2015, EUR 1.9 million was withdrawn by customers at our bank branches and at ATM’s. EUR 740,000 (LTL 2.6 million) was exchanged in cash and the amount deposited at cash-in ATMs was LTL 1.3 million. Responding to customer complaints Customers can submit comments via multiple chanSEB’S CORE VALUES nels – in person at the office, over the phone and web channels in various forms. Our ambition is to address COMMITPROFESMUTUAL CONTINUITY MENT SIONALISM RESPECT We learn, a complaint directly and as close to the source as We are all dediWe make it easy We are open challenge and possible. If the employee who receives the case cancated to that for people to do and always take action not resolve the issue, we contact the customer within everything we business with strive to earn based on 72 hours with information regarding decisions to act do creates us by sharing the trust of our long stronger our knowledge others as well experience. or if the matter should be further investigated. customer and being as from each There is a special customer relations team that relations. accountable for other. handles appeals in cases where the customer still our actions. does not feel satisfied. All complaints are registered in SEB’s operating risk information system. SEB Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 19 OUR PRIORITIES. responsible business growing demand for Digital services banks, as other sectors, face a growing demand for As this development continues, we will put more efdigital services, particularly among younger customers. In forts in growing digital availability and service offering. 2014, 96 per cent of our Swedish retail customer interacDuring the year, we have made several improvements tions took place in a digital environment. The availability for our customers. Among other things, a new Internet of relevant, accessible and targeted information becomes bank for business customers was launched with new increasingly important as people need to make the right functionalities and a new interface. The bank’s largest decisions in everyday matters. and most visited website, www.seb.se was also updated. Paperless branches reduce paper volumes Last year, SEB piloted paperless service in five of the Estonian branches. The innovation was received very well by the customers, and all of the bank’s branches in the country now offer the service. When signing a contract, customers can use a national ID card with a built-in electronic chip or a Mobile-ID to identify themselves. SEB then makes the contracts available in the Internet Bank, or e-mail them in an encrypted format at the client’s request. With its new service, the bank wants to make life easier for clients, as well as reduce paper consumption which at present is 24 tonnes annually. SEB expects the paperless service to reduce the volume of paper documents created in the branch network by 60 per cent by the end of 2017. Appreciated digital coin jar difference in a special savings account. In The digital coin jar that was launched in the end of 2014 around 64,000 contracts Estonia 2012 has become appreciated had saved EUR 9.2m (50,000 contracts by customers. When customers pay with and EUR 4.2m in 2013). The Digikassa a debit card, SEB’s systems round the service is free of charge and is available to amount to the nearest euro and deposit the all customers with a debit card. 20 SEB Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 OUR PRIORITIES. responsible business Tackling financial crime What’s the issue? Financial crime is a major international problem. Preventing this type of crime is a high priority for SEB, especially as it is constantly changing, and the consequences for societies and the economy can be substantial. SEB is a major provider of loans, payments and other financial services and it is our responsibility to protect our customers and the assets that we manage. seb devotes considerable resources to prevent financial KYc programme Whistle-blowing crime and its damaging effects on our customers, our important tool SEB has an established business and on local and global economies. We collabSEB put large efforts into whistle-blowing process. orate with partners locally and internationally, train our combatting money launMost reports of suspected employees, monitor transactions and check our customdering, and believes that irregularities are still ers according to the Know-Your-Customer process (KYC) a sound KYC programme made to local managers. and against sanctions lists. is the best method of Reports are also regupreventing that. Based on larly made to the Head We focus on three key areas: a professional relationship of Compliance and Head •• Fraud prevention, -detection and -response with customers, this is an of Internal Audit, most•• Actions to prevent money laundering and financing important tool to achieve ly via telephone or the of terrorism an appropriate level of specific email address. •• Compliance with government sanctions against Customer Protection. We Notifications come from criminal suspects abide by European Union employees, but complaints legislation on anti-money also come from customStrengthened collaboration laundering (AML) and ers, suppliers and other During 2014 considerable strides have been taken in KYC. We apply enhanced stakeholders. All reported strengthening internal collaboration in the effort to due diligence for customincidents or circumstances combat financial crime. Primarily Security, Information ers, products and countries, are promptly investigated Security and IT Security have been brought closer through where there is a perceived and, when applicable, effective collaboration foras. By doing this, we consolidate risk that the Bank is used reported to the bank’s and apply SEB’s key capabilities and perspectives that are for money laundering and CEO and the Audit and required to fight financial crime in a structured way. financing of terrorism. Compliance Committee. Cybercrime There is broad consensus throughout the banking industry Increasing awareness that cybercrime is at the top of the list of current and most Ensuring that employees understand the basic characlikely long term fraud-threats. SEB is taking active measures teristics of fraud and money laundering forms one of to stay on top of that threat. Firstly, our central security the most effective measures in fighting financial crime. function has been strengthened by employing additional reDuring 2015, SEB will launch a new e-learning to insources with IT Security background. Secondly, “Big Data” crease awareness of the KYC process and risks of money is being explored in order to leverage the vast amount of laundering. A documentary film where actual fraud and data that we have on transactions and customer behaviour money laundering cases are dramatized will also be in our e-banking channels. The purpose is to find and stop launched. The purpose is to create awareness around fraudulent transaction in real time. Thirdly, the continuous concepts such as the importance of segregation of duties, development of authentication solutions and processes to of screening of new hired employees and that no future issue them forms a cornerstone in SEB’s anti-fraud efforts. or existing customer can be of such importance that it Finally, transaction limits have been implemented that in warrants a deviation from the normal AML processes. effect create “stop loss” for fraud. SEB Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 21 OUR PRIORITIES. responsible business responsible investments What’s the issue? SEB is one of the largest institutional investors in the Nordic region, investing in companies world-wide on behalf of private, corporate and institutional clients. We believe that businesses that actively manage the environmental, social and governance (ESG) aspects of their business are more able to reduce risks and costs, seize opportunities and to attract capital. Guided by the UN supported PRI, we therefore invest to pursue long-term value creation. 22 SEB Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 OUR PRIORITIES. responsible business Integration of sustainability in our investments acting responsibly as an investor and owner forms an panies amounted to SEK 513bn of which 99 per cent were important part of the mandate given by our customers. managed according to the UN supported PRI (Principles The 2014 Eurosif SRI study (www.eurosif.org) showed for Responsible Investments). The number of Socially that assets managed with a responsible investment Responsible Investment/ethical funds was 18 (17). strategy continues to increase in Europe, growing at a In the evaluation and selection process of external double-digit rate annually since 2011. From our side, we fund managers, we consider whether the respective fund see an increase in demand for products with a sustainable manager is a signatory to PRI or not. In total, 70 per cent profile (ESG), mainly from institutional clients. (65) all our external fund managers have signed the PRI. We work to proactively integrate ESG factors in our inWe include sustainability aspects as part of all product vestment decisions, by supporting the portfolio managers, development discussions. The ESG team is always inteam by team. This is an on-going process for us, and we volved to ensure that relevant sustainability elements are continuously develop and refine the way we work with it. taken into account from the start. In 2014, asset under management in SEB’s fund comOur investment offering contains three levels General Sustainability Positive impact offering profiled products investments This comprises all our investments This product range carries an ESG Our investors are becoming inand funds, managed by SEB. We profile, i.e. we include or exclude creasingly interested in investments exclude companies involved in cerinvestments based on sustainability that have a broader positive impact tain activities from our investment criteria. We now have products in than just the financial returns. Two universe such as the production this category in all our major asset product categories responding to or marketing of illegal weapons classes; equities, fixed income, real that demand are green bonds and our (anti-personnel landmines, cluster estate, private equity and hedge two microfinance funds, described munitions, chemical and biological funds, introduced in 2014. Among on page 25. To further respond to weapons) and in the development our equities funds, we offer for this demand we will in 2015 launch or production phases of nuclear example Sweden Ethical and Ethos a green bond fund, which will be weapons programmes. Read more Swedish Equities, for which we have open for investments from private at www.sebgroup.com/activeownmeasured the carbon footprints, as well as institutional clients (read ership. We also apply our active and had that compared to the funds’ more about green bonds on page 29). ownership programme to most of benchmarking indices. The footIn addition, we provide our clients our assets where we have equity prints of these funds were signifiwith the opportunity to invest in the holdings, (read more on page 24). cantly lower than that of the benchSchroder ISF Global Climate Change marks. On the fixed income side we Fund, which invests in companies were one of the first to launch an SRI that are part of the solution to the fund containing corporate bonds. climate change challenge. For our institutional clients we have several products available, e.g. within the High Yield, Private Equity and Real Estate segments. SEB Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 23 OUR PRIORITIES. RESPONSIBLE responsible BUSINESS business ACTIVE OWNERSHIP active ownership implies that we use our influence as shareholders in the companies we invest in, with the purpose of improving the performance of these holdings. 22 new board members were nominated The dialogues can revolve around business opportunities, or around risk mitigation. We are a long-term investor and of which 15 (68 per cent) were women. our work as active owner is thus our main tool to create We held 239 (196) ESG dialogues long-term value in our investments and for our clients. Active Ownership – corporate governance with portfolio companies during 2014. For our equities investments, we practice active ownership by voting at company annual general meetings (AGM) and by participating in the Nomination Committee in Swedish companies. During 2013 – 2014 we Active Ownership – ESG participated in 30 Nomination Committees, in companies We apply a two-tiered approach to active ownership in where we are one of the largest shareholders. This was the area of environmental, social and governance aspects an increase from 20 the previous year. We focus on topics (ESG) – we do proactive thematic engagements in colsuch as incentive programmes and board diversity with a laboration with other investors, and we have individual particular focus on female board representation. In 2014, dialogues with companies regarding potential areas 22 new board members were nominated of which 15 of improvements. The latter involves mitigation of ESG (68 per cent) were women. risks, as well as capitalisation of business opportunities related to sustainability. Examples of companies that we have had ESG dialogues with over the year include SEB supports the Swedish, Finnish and Danish SIF’s Stora Enso and TeliaSonera. In total, we held 239 (196) (Sustainable Investment Forum), as well as the Swedish dialogues with portfolio companies during 2014. investor collaboration Sustainable Value Creation. As In collaborations with a number of international inpart of our Swesif engagement, SEB, together with five vestors via the PRI Clearing house, we have over the years other Swedish financial institutions, made the new verbeen working on the themes of anti-corruption, as well as sion of the sustainability profile available in the Swedish hydraulic fracturing (‘fracking’) in the shale gas industry. premium pension system. In addition, we collaborate with a number of Swedish institutions, and have initiated a discussion around taxation and tax evasion for our equity holdings. 24 SEB Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 OUR PRIORITIES. responsible business the challenge of finding women eligible for boards in the nomination committees, we actively focus on increasing the share of female board members. The main challenge is to find suitable and willing candidates. Today, the number of eligible women with experience from executive positions in larger companies and public organisations is limited. In addition, it is our view that these candidates, while they still have operational roles in companies, are to a lesser extent than their male equivalents inclined to take on external assignments. Female candidates may be less encouraged by their managers, than male candidates in similar positions. Additionally, women that have recently ended their executive careers are in high demand and can often not take on more board memberships for time reasons. Our approach in the past three years has been to continuously raise the issue in the Nomination Committees where we are represented, as well as in discussions with companies and in ownership foras. However, it takes time to change culture and our society. So we try to find new ways of reaching qualified women. One way of doing this »However, it takes time to change culture is to expand our horizon to look for candidates outside of the corporate world, as well as candidates outside of and our society. So we try to find new Sweden. These individuals bring new perspectives and ways of reaching qualified women.« experiences relevant for the companies we invest in. Two microfinance funds than 25 countries. Through these In March 2014, we invited clients As the first Swedish bank, SEB MFI’s, we reach more than six million to come on a field trip to Sri Lanka launched a microfinance fund in individuals, a majority of which are and Cambodia, to get an on-the2013, which invests in microfinance women. Through microfinance, ground experience of how microinstitutions (MFI’s) in emerging and these persons or small businesses get finance works in practice. We visited frontier markets worldwide. Followaccess to basic financial services such microfinance institutions as well as ing the success of that, we launched as loans, bank accounts and savings micro businesses, where our clients a second fund in 2014. We now have deposits; services that they otherwise got the opportunity to discuss with more than SEK1bn in assets under would have to live without, since the persons themselves on how they management in microfinance, inthey normally are excluded from the utilise the products and services they vested in more than 40 MFIs in more banking system. get access to. SEB Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 25 OUR PRIORITIES. responsible business sustainable finance Responsible lending and risk management One of a bank’s primary contributions to a sustainable society is responsible credit granting, meaning not lending more than the customers have the capacity to repay. SEB’s What’s the issue? principle as regards risk is that we take on risk only to creAs a large corporate bank, we are convinced that we ate customer value and long term shareholder value. can influence the development towards a more sustainSEB’s risk culture is based on long experience, strong able economy. We aim to support sustainable business customer relations and sound banking principles. The practices and believe that by improving our own work, business areas are responsible for their respective risks. we can influence others for real and lasting change. We That is where the most important work is done. That is want to collaborate with our clients and support them as why long-term relations and good knowledge and underthey develop their business practices. standing of the customer and repayment capacity remain the core aspects of SEB’s credit culture. Read more about Risk management in the Annual Report, p 28-33. Working with clients customers in the Baltic states where we see a growing inWe believe that all companies over time must embrace terest for these issues. Many clients already have sustainasustainable processes and we engage more with clients bility as part of their day-to-day business although others on sustainability to become a better business partner. regard sustainability as a relatively new concept. Initially, SEB’s primary focus was on large corporates as In our aim to support our clients, we have close well as medium sized corporates in Sweden. dialogues and monitor risks also rising from geopolitiMany of our clients have been working with different cal challenges. Several of our clients have been directly aspects of sustainability for many years. Our aim is to affected by the sanctions against Russia and experience better understand our clients’ strengths and weaknesses loss of export revenues, increased risk on receivable as well as challenges and opportunities and thus better quality and lower investment activity. The challenge here identify their changing needs. is to manage client expectations in the face of this present Increasingly, we now also engage with our corporate macro uncertainty. Policies – SEB’s position and policies is to establish a comhuman rights issues. SEB has taken a position on three mon framework for a pro-active These statements and policies specific sustainability issues – cliand future-oriented dialogue on key form an integral part of the Credit mate change, child labour and access issues with our clients, as well as for Policy for Corporate Sustainability, to fresh water – and established internal guidance. which was further strengthened policies for six industry sectors – During 2014, the sector policy during the year. arms and defence, forestry, fossil for the arms and defence industry We have also intensified our fuels, mining and metals, renewable was clarified and tightened to work, more staff than ever before energy and shipping. show SEB’s stance against nuclear participated in discussions on our The purpose of these statements weapons and an increased focus on sector policies and position statements to clarify what we consider best practice. These are important in our strategic dialogue with our Renewable Energy clients, as well as a corner stone for Statement for the SEB Group for the Derived from the Instruction Climate Change Officer. President and Chief Executive Sector policy Mining and Metals Statement for the SEB Group Position statement Derived from the Instruction for the Child Labour Statement for the SEB Group President and Chief Executive Officer. Forestry Derived from the Instruction for the President and Chief Executive Officer. decisions made in Merchant BankStatement for the SEB Group Sector policy Position statement Derived from the Instruction for the Freshwater President and Chief Executive Officer. Statement for the SEB Group Sector policy Arms and Derived from the Instruction for the President and Chief Executive Officer. Defence SEB Group for the t for the n Statemen from the Instructio Officer. Derived and Chief Executive Position statement Statement for the SEB Group Derived from the Instruction Sector policy for the el President President and Chief Executive Fossil Fu Officer. Policy for the Derived from SEB Group ing’s business committee. SustainaPresident the Instruction and Chief for the Executive Officer. policy Sector bility aspects are often discussed and at times business is declined entirely due to these aspects. 26 SEB Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 OUR PRIORITIES. responsible business Joint action for sustainable development Committed at CEO level, the network is collaborating The Swedish Leadership for Sustainable Development around topics such as how to combat corruption and proconsists of 23 Swedish multinational companies, three ormote transparency and integrity, use of ICT as tools for ganizations and the Swedish International Development development, mobilize institutional capital for sustainCooperation Agency (Sida). The network works together, able investments, support entrepreneurship and create within and across sectors, to take leadership for sustaindecent jobs in developing countries at the same time as able business and at the same time reduce poverty and gaining sustainable growth in our businesses. find long term solutions to today’s major development The overall target of Sweden’s development cooperachallenges. SEB is a member since the summer 2014. tion is to ensure that those in poverty have the ability to Focus is on five thematic priorities; decent work, improve their living conditions; the individual person is environmental impact, anti-corruption, information and always the focus of our work. communication technology (ICT) for development and sustainable financing. Equator Principles to streamline the implementation and where the client has effective opIn 2007, SEB adopted the Equator of the EP as well as further develop erational control. Moreover, the tenPrinciples (EP), a voluntary set the understanding of the principles or of the loan should be at least two of guidelines used by financial among international financial instiyears and our part of the financing institutions to assess the social tutions, development agencies and at least USD 50m. We have for 2014 and environmental impact of large private banks. only had two such transactions, one projects and to help their customers 2014 was the first year EP has category A and one category B. As to manage them. SEB has during been mandatory not only for project regards project finance, SEB was the year taken part in the EP annual financing, but also for project-related involved in nine transactions under meeting and in workshops intended corporate loans above USD 100m the Principles, all categorised as B. Total energy portfolio (%) Review of energy related loan portfolio SEB’s energy related portfolio is monitored on a regular basis, from a risk and business perspective. In total the energy related portfolio represents 6 per cent 27% of the total loan portfolio and amounted to SEK 125 bn. Renewable About 53 per cent of the portfolio is related to fossil fuels with less than 2 per cent related to coal. Renewable energy Fossil fuels* represents 27 per cent of the portfolio which includes wind 20% power, solar power, bioenergy and hydro power. Other** 53% We will continue to monitor the development of the overall energy related portfolio as well as that for project finance. The aim is to increase the share of renewables and decrease of fossil related. * Coal accounts for less than 2% of the total portfolio. ** Mainly infrastructure (e.g. district heating and transmission). SEB Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 27 OUR PRIORITIES. responsible business supply chain screening process Responsible sourcing sustainability performance. For suppliers that receive low – assessing our suppliers rating, SEB will support the supplier in driving a positive SEB has a strong ambition to contribute to sustainable development of the scoring, with the ambition to improve growth and to make a difference to customers, staff and the rating year to year. the society at large. For us, it's of vital importance that we have close relationships and interact with all our Sustainability monitoring platform stakeholders, also our suppliers. As regards new suppliers the use of EcoVadis sustainability We are convinced that having suppliers with high monitoring platform is part of SEB's sourcing assessment. performance as regards environmental, social and The assessment result is an important criterion in the ethical aspects creates greater values for us as well as qualification process. Suppliers will get an invitation for our suppliers. from SEB to fill in the evaluation form on the monitoring platform. Suppliers with no EcoVadis rating, or low scoring fundamental code of conduct suppliers, showing unwillingness of improvement, will in In our Supplier Code of Conduct we express the impordue time be excluded from SEB’s sourcing activities. tance of having a sustainable supply chain and what we expect from our suppliers. The Supplier Code of Conduct is Results for 2014 fundamental to our sourcing process and is essential for our We have during 2014 assessed 176 company groups assessment of suppliers. We are using EcoVadis sustainarepresenting more than 500 of of our suppliers. These bility monitoring platform for managing assessment and suppliers correspond to 60 per cent of our annual spend. rating of our suppliers. The EcoVadis platform combines Of these suppliers 103 are performing well, while 2 are to sustainability assessment expertise and data management be seen as high risk suppliers due to limitations in policies tools which will allow for our suppliers to demonstrate and performance. SEB will during 2015 work with low their sustainability best practices. The target is to increase performing suppliers to improve the scores. the average sustainability rating in the supplier community For 2014, we set a target to assess 80 per cent of our that delivers products and services to SEB. supplier spend. This target has not been reached due to a The result from the monitoring is not only used by higher complexity in the screening process than expected. SEB as an important input in the supplier selection, but For 2015, we have therefore revised our assessing target to also for measuring and developing current suppliers' 70 per cent of our supplier spend. SUPPLIER CS SCREENING Performance monitoring SUPPLIER IN SCOPE? YES YES COLLECT SENT TO REVIEW SUPPLIER EXIST? SUPPLIER DATA ECOVADIS PERFORMANCE NO DATA COLLECTION SEB & ANALYSIS ECOVADIS 28 SEB Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 OUR PRIORITIES. responsible business Green bonds 2014 – a booming market the market for green bonds is booming. In 2014, Green bonds, accumulated issue volume, USD billion more than three times as many green bonds were issued compared to the previous year. The number of investors 60 who finance environmentally friendly investments by 50 buying green bonds through SEB has continued to rise, reaching nearly 300 worldwide. 40 The range of green bonds has widened in terms of credit quality, maturity, geographies and currencies, 30 giving investors the opportunity to build more diversified 20 green portfolios. Several green bonds indices have been launched and a number of major investors (e.g. Barclays 10 and Zurich Insurance) have committed to large invest0 ments in green bonds. 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Source: Climate Bonds Initiative What and why? SEB the leading green bond underwriter The green bond concept was developed in 2007/2008 For the seventh consecutive year, SEB was the most active by SEB and the World Bank as a response to increased bank in the world in terms of helping companies and investor demand for engagement in climate-related organisations issue green bonds. This is the result of early opportunities. A green bond is an investment vehicle that initiative in the area and a long-term vision, which has integrates the fiduciary element of fixed income products given SEB a larger network of investors, issuers, environwith climate mitigation and adaptation awareness. At the mental organisations and policy-makers. Our ambition same time, it is a tool that raises industry engagement by is to maintain the role of industry thought-leader, where encouraging investments in sustainable projects, proquality is more important than quantity. cesses and technologies with a transparency that allows investors to understand challenges and thus diversify risk. prominent deals refinancing is accepted, the size of projects. SEB is a member of GBP’s SEB participated in over 25 transenvironmental, social and governance executive committee and advocates actions in 2014. Prominent deals (ESG) requirements for issuers, and a strict interpretation of regulations include German development bank the degree to which impact reporting over green bonds. KfW, which in July issued its first should be part of re-reporting. “It has been a great pleasure, green bond for EUR 1.5 billion; the as a co-founder of the green bond Province of Ontario in Canada, Green Bond Principles market, to take part in the ongoing which SEB helped to market; and Some of these discussions above are development of the market and Bergen’s energy company’s BKK, conducted within the framework for thereby acknowledge the trust we which issued the first Green Bond in the Green Bond Principles (GBP), have been shown by our investors the Norwegian market in September which was formed in 2014 by a globand the issuers we represent,” said (for NOK 1.1bn). al consortium of investment banks. Christopher Flensborg, Head of The purpose is to help issuers and Sustainable Products and Product Debate on best practice investors deploy capital for green Development at SEB. Against the backdrop in recent years of rapid growth and increased involvement by various actors, the market for green bonds can be »We believe the principles will increasingly described as an established part of the financial market secure a common understanding and a source for earmarked environand thereby create the homogemental funding. However, debate on best practice nous market development needed for the market is buoyant, not least to allow further growth.‹‹ when it comes to the definition of what is ‘green’, the extent to which Christopher Flensborg SEB Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 29 OUR PRIORITIES. responsible business Latvia SEB has for the company Getliņi ECO financed the construction of greenhouses adjacent to an old landfill. Methane gas collected from the landfill is used for electricity production in a combine heat and power plant. Heat produced in the power plant will be used for heating the greenhouses and growing of plants. Photo: Solvita Alksne PROJECTS AIMING FOR ENVIRONMENTAL BENEFITS Estonia sists of 9 turbines with an output of 3MW and designed SEB has in 2014 financed energy group Utilitas project for moderate wind conditions. The park will generate in Tallinn. Utilitas will renovate the heat district heating sufficient energy to supply 28,000 homes. Compared to network in Tallinn. When finalized, the project will a coal fired power station, the wind farm will be able to reduce the heat losses by 46,000 MWh annually. This reduce annual CO2 emissions by around 110,000 tonnes. investment is in a 25 years perspective estimated to save over EUR 50m. Lithuania SEB has during 2014 financed a waste-to-energy projects Norway for Grigiškės Group, a hygienic paper/cardboard producer. The first-ever corporate green bond in the Norwegian All three biofuel boilers have been constructed improving market was issued in October 2014 by the company BKK, and expanding energy production from waste fractions one of the largest power utilities in Norway. The use of not possible to recycle. In addition, new group company proceeds from the NOK 1,1bn green bond will be used for – Klaipeda Recycling UAB – was established in order to hydro power projects in Norway. SEB was the sole book manage/optimize waste paper recycling in Lithuania. runner for the green bond. The bond will enable BKK to further promote the transition to low carbon and climate Estonia resilient growth. In 2014, SEB has financed 20 intercity busses for Tallinna Linnatranspordi AS. These low emitting busses are the Finland first busses following the EURO 6 standard in Estonia. SEB arranged the financing for a 27MW onshore wind The EURO 6 standard states a further reduction in envipark in Sodankylä, Lapland in Finland. The project conronmentally harmful emissions, particular pollutants such as nitrogen oxides, hydrocarbons and particulate matter. For example, nitrogen oxides are reduced by 80 per cent project finance energy portfolio compared to previous EURO 5 standard for busses. Sweden 50% SEB has during 2014 taken part in a number of wind Renewable power projects in Sweden. One project financed is the 50% construction of the 46.2 MW wind farm in Brotorp in the Oil and gas county of Småland. The wind farm will hold 14 Vestas V126 – 3.3MW turbines. 30 SEB Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 OUR PRIORITIES. environment REDUCING OUR ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT Business travel SEB has during 2014 improved the collection of travel data, making it possible to account for travel emissions more accurately. Through the end of What’s the issue? 2013, we have used one aggregated emission factor, dating back to 2008, for all our air travelling. This emission factor Global warming is one of the most serious threats to both humanity and our planet. More and more research is out of date and from 2014, we have used emission factors emerges, arguing that the speed of climate change is dedicated to specific types of flights, i.e. domestic, short increasing and substantial preventive actions are needed. haul (continental) or long haul (inter-continental). Although the direct environmental impact of our This revised method of calculation and changed emisoperations is limited, we have the obligation and sion factors have resulted in lower emissions from travel opportunity to do what we can to limit our footprint. in 2014, in comparison with 2013, even though air travel have increased. However, efficiency of air planes, fuels and engines have improved since we began measuring and consequently, up to date emission factors for air Target setting and reporting travel have been lowered. In 2009, SEB decided to reduce the annual CO2 emisFor comparability, we have restated emissions related sions by 45 per cent by 2015, compared to baseline 2008. to air travel for previous years. For each year, we have This reflected our ambition to address a broader range used the actual total distance travelled while applying the of environmental issues. Energy use, paper consumption 2014 distribution of flight types (domestic, shortand long and business travel represent the most material direct haul), as the more granulated data is unavailable. We have impact of our operations on the environment. At the end then multiplied each type of flight type kilometre with its of 2014, we have reached a reduction of 42 per cent. specific emission factor for that year. The emissions from Our approach to reduce our carbon footprint starts these three types of flights have then been summarised to with accounting for our CO2 emissions related to the opgive the total emissions from air travelling for each year. erations over which we have control, such as energy and electricity use in our own buildings, paper consumption Resource efficiency and business travel (scope 2 and 3 emissions). We have continued our efforts to reduce paper We include emissions from eleven countries, accounting consumption including internal printing and for more than 94 per cent of our income and 96 per cent external physical mailing. Besides the reduction of of our employees. We monitor our direct environmental resources, this is important from a customer satisfaction footprint on a quarterly basis and report on the information perspective. Our retail business in Sweden has during in our CS report and in specific reports, such as the Carbon 2014 decreased the physical mailing to customers by 2.5 Disclosure Project (CDP). million letters, by making more contract notes and account statements available electronically. Our total paper Carbon emissions and energy use consumption was reduced by a further 12 per cent in 2014 During the year, SEB’s total CO2 emissions amountcompared to 2013. Since 2008, it is reduced by 65 per cent. ed to 24,600 tonnes. Energy use in our offices and In our major data centre we have continued to branches has decreased by 25 per cent since 2008. Our improve the energy efficiency. As an example we have electricity consumption has decreased 32 per cent for the through exchange of equipment and optimisation of same period. One reason for the decrease is the move to new processes reduced our energy consumption by 5 per cent energy efficient buildings in Denmark and Germany but also at our computer centre in our premises in Rissne. We have our continuous effort to improve energy efficiency in our also increased the use of video conferences during 2014 present buildings. This, combined with the switch to renewby 35 per cent compared to 2013. For more information, able energy sources, has reduced our carbon emissions from please see CS Fact Book page 55. energy consumption by almost 63 per cent compared to 2008, corresponding to about 14,700 tonnes CO2. SEB Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 31 OUR PRIORITIES. people and community valuing our people Employee survey SEB puts great emphasis on the annual employee survey, Insight, in which we measure employee engagement, effectiveness and confidence, among other things. The results from the 2014 Insight show strong improvement on What’s the issue? all of these points. Job satisfaction is high, as is confidence Banking is all about people. We therefore strive to be a in the Bank’s future. 86 per cent (81) of respondents said sound workplace that attracts and retains people who they are satisfied with SEB as a workplace, and the two want to grow and develop, and who are committed to main indices “Employee Engagement” and “Performance helping our customers reach their goals. We want our Excellence”, rose to 75 per cent (70) and 78 per cent (74), people to feel valued, included and engaged. respectively – both above average for the financial industry. The well-being of our employees is essential for us as The survey pointed to a need for employees to even well as for our stakeholders. more clearly see the connection between their own role and the bank’s overall vision as well as for more dialogue. In 2014, we involved all employees in open meetings around these improvements areas and SEB has developed Our goal is to have a high number of employees who are several tools for dialogue, cooperation and activity dedicated and proud, and can recommend SEB as an planning, including easy-to-understand handbooks about inclusive and sound workplace with opportunities for driving change and team development. The goal is to create individual development. Our core values – commitment, a common language and a robust framework for developmutual respect, professionalism and continuity – permeing individuals, teams and the organisation as a whole. ate our business and our culture. They form the basis for All across SEB, we have had about 150 meetings of how we behave towards each other and how we want our various sorts, such as “Value Dialogue”, and “Market customers, partners and other stakeholders perceive us. Place”, which are ways of visualising different parts of 32 SEB Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 OUR PRIORITIES. people and community people strategy – with SEB’s people strategy we aim to ensure that SEB has the organisational capabilities to meet a changing environment. This strategy, which emanates from our core values and business plan, is built on four cornerstones. Professional people. SEB professionals Great leaders in SEB induce a strong take pride in serving customers and sense of purpose to the business. They show accountability and responsiveness. care about and develop their people, They know they matter, are dedicated, operate with and through teams, are role ready to help, contribute and models and promote the right mind set collaborate. and behaviours. Effective organisation. SEB is an High performing teams. We build inclusive, business-driven organisaand acknowledge interaction betion where people feel respected and tween teams and reward behaviours valued as professionals. SEB is an agile that drive to add value. Leaders and organisation that has the capacity to team members work in a dynamic, adapt to changing market needs. mature and trustful way, collaborating towards common goals. We stress learning and development as integral parts of employee Engagement Index everyday work. Modern methods and effective and proven tools are used to facilitate learning, such as web-based 0 25 50 75 100 training in a number of areas. We also offer distinct learn70 2013 ing paths for various professional roles. Formal continuous education plans with distance training are complemented 2014 75 with opportunities for hands-on practical training. 71 Leadership in change SEB has a long tradition of working with leadership employee Performance Excellence development. In a world characterised by continuous Index change and challenging business environments, manag0 25 50 75 100 ers are becoming subject to ever-higher demands. They 74 shall inspire, serve as models and create conditions for 2013 employees and teams to develop our business in the best 2014 78 way possible. This is critical for generating sustainable results – for us as well as for our customers. 74 By offering global development programmes we make it Finance sector, benchmark possible for employees to build necessary leadership qualities and develop both personally and as team members. SEB puts great emphasis on strengthening collaborathe value chain, strengthening relationships and creating tions both within and between teams and units, and in a holistic view. this way creating added value for our customers. We are working to constantly adapt to changing conditions and Development and learning to use our resources in the right way in order to refine our In 2014, SEB was ranked as one of the most attractive approach in the organisation. employers in both Sweden and the Baltic countries, particularly among young, working business graduates. We know that an important prerequisite for attracting the most engaged and best employees is to offer oppor»Leadership in SEB is rapidly shifting tunities for development. We also believe that this is of utmost importance for our ability as a bank to meet from the “what” and “how” to also changes and our stakeholders’ future needs. include an inspirational “why”. Being guided by a higher purpose and AMBASSADORSHIP creating customer value together, 2014 unleashes the talent in everyone I am very satisfied with SEB as a – a key to continue to attract the best people«, place to work 86 (+ 5) says Staffan Åkerblom, Head of Leadership & I would highly recommend SEB as a place to work 76 (+ 7) Organisational Development. SEB Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 33 OUR PRIORITIES. people and community Focusing on diversity increasing diversity in the business is important for SEB, both as regards gender and ethnicity. We work to improve our processes – how we recruit, develop and communicate – and we put special focus on our talent development programme. SEB has the ambition to reflect the diversity of the coach women in their development. communities where we are active, and we have for several Other initiatives have been taken, such as lectures by years worked with improving diversity and providing external speakers, project to investigate the differences in equal opportunity. The ambition is that all employees sick-leave between men and women etc. will experience the same opportunities to develop, regardless of their gender, ethnic origin, age, sexual Gender salary mapping orientation or faith. Since 2011, SEB in Sweden has a special focus on equal Increasing diversity is important for our business. We pay. During autumn 2014, SEB and Financial Sector Unbelieve that diverse perspectives increase creativity, the ion have conducted a party joint salary survey. The survey, ability to solve problems better and contribute to better conducted with the support of an independent external decisions. Thereby, it benefits our customers as well as consultant, included around 800 people in a number of social development in society in general. common professional roles. In eleven cases unreasonable In 2014, 43 per cent (42) of SEB’s managers were differences were found, which resulted in adjustments. women. Among senior managers the level was 25 per cent (26). SEB’s goal is to have an equal gender balance in all leadership positions and thus, we are not satisfied. — Key — recruit, develop and communicate performance We work systematically to improve our processes on how indicators we recruit, develop employees and communicate. Since several years, it is SEB’s ambition to always have at least Management by gender male female one from each gender among the final candidates for Senior managers 75% 25% manager positions. In the process of identifying talented individuals, the Global Talent Review, we put special Middle managers 62% 38% focus on women who are ready to take on a bigger job. First line managers 48% 52% We have also increased focus on ethnicity. At SEB Group level, scorecards are used to measure and All managers 57% 43% follow up gender equality within the divisions as well as Staff 41% 59% for SEB as a whole. Managers are also trained to take the gender perspective into account and more consciously business benefits the ones who do the work.” Celsing was grateful for the of diversity award: “I believe that leadership is a balance act. Sometimes you have ROBERT CELSING, head of to make tough decisions, sometimes markets, Seb merchant banking you have to act smoothly. You should lead at the front, but at the same time At the Merchant Banking division, support and lift employees. You have Robert Celsing, Global Head of FX-­ to be visionary – but not lose focus Trading, was awarded the Financial on the details.” Sector Union Manager Award 2014. Robert Celsing noted that people Chairman Magdalena Olofsson diversity is basically about having the handed him the diploma with the same approach as when diversifying motivation: “Celsing sees the individa portfolio to reduce risk. ual and is good at giving feedback. “The same applies to an organisaAlthough he puts the business and tion. One must genuinely believe in customers’ interest first, he does not the business benefits of diversity for it forget that his employees really are to happen.” 34 SEB Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 OUR PRIORITIES. people and community Health and worK Sickness-related environment absenteeism Sickness-related absenteeism, both shortand long-term A safe and sound work environment combined with a absences, continues to be low within SEB in Sweden perception of good health and work life balance form the despite a general rising trend in society. Total sicknessfoundation for our employees’ performance and job satisrelated absenteeism in Sweden was 2.4 per cent, which is faction. Health and work environment are closely linked low compared with other industries and peers. Howto each other and are important components in the Bank’s ever, the differences between women’s and men’s sick business plan. SEB’s health strategy focuses on preventive leave-rates still remain (3.37 per cent and 1.46 per cent), measures rather than on taking action after an employee’s just like in the rest of the Swedish society. During 2014 ability has been diminished as a result of an illness. we started analysing these facts in cooperation with We strive to inspire, motivate and raise the knowledge experts from Stockholm School of Economics. Concluof our managers and employees about the significance of sions indicate that the differences are closely related to lifestyle and the work environment for individuals, the the professional role, for example that women more often company and society. The Bank’s health strategy is based have roles with no possibilities to work from home, such on the latest research findings and on recommendations as in telephone support functions. Further identification from SEB’s health science council. of relevant activities will continue during 2015. rehabilitation and Support SEB supports employees who become ill and have no or limited possibilities to work. We offer various kinds of gramme, an opportunity for employees to get support from support for the employee during this period, in order to a registered psychotherapist through a phone service. manage coming back to work. Managers have the ultimate Employees who are exposed to threats, as for example responsibility for rehabilitation. Besides health insurances, in branch offices, get support from an SEB security departSEB in Sweden also offers the Employee Assistance Proment and if needed from a psychologist. Guidelines on how to handle situations that are perceived as threatening are available for all employees on internal web pages. Employee statistics Labour rights 2014 2013 2012 SEB follows local collective agreements and national Number of employees, average 16,7421) 17,096 18,168 legislations as regards labour rights in the countries Sweden 8,352 8 ,53 8,876 where we are present. We believe in having a strong Germany 894 1,013 1,174 employee engagement. The ongoing cooperation with the Baltic 5,100 5,047 5,111 European Works Council (EWC) has increased furthermore and we have now established meetings on a Employee turnover, % 8.9 11.1 9.3 quarterly basis. The employee engagement in terms of Sick leave, % (in Sweden) 2.4 2.4 2.6 higher membership rates in trade unions have increased 1) Average number of full-time equivalents 15,714. during 2014 in the Baltic countries as well as in Sweden. SEB Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 35 OUR PRIORITIES. people and community investing in communities ship, Business Challenge and SUP46 Start-Up People of Sweden. In 2014, we met about 13,000 entrepreneurs through our partnerships. Also in Finland, SEB supports young entrepreneurs through Junior Achievements. What’s the issue? SEB has a wide range of activities towards entrepreneurs also in all three Baltic countries. Some of the examples As a bank, we are an integrated part of society, and we include the Estonian project, “Brain Hunt” that aims to find know that what we do has an impact. Therefore, we want innovative and environmentally friendly innovations. In to contribute to building a society we all want to, and Lithuania, SEB partners with the magazine “BznStart” in can, be part of. In addition to the role that our business the project “240 Minutes of Charge” for businesses ready plays, we support local communities. We share both time for challenges. Examples in Latvia include the “Contest of and money and work with carefully chosen partners. ideas”, the TV broadcast for start-ups “Company Secret” and the award for developing companies, “Gazelle”. At SEB, we engage for future generations. We support the development of local communities, in partnership with organisations and institutions in our home markets. We focus on entrepreneurship and innovation, children and youth and education and knowhow. For us, it is important to have a mutual exchange of ideas of how we can contribute, and of the value the partnership brings to us. Supporting entrepreneurs at all levels SEB has a long tradition of supporting entrepreneurs and small companies, through our core business in collaboration with organisations that support entrepreneurship. We believe that society benefits from an increased number of entrepreneurs that develop businesses and create future growth and jobs. Therefore, we want to encourage and support both future and present entrepreneurs at all levels. During 2014, we have strengthened our support for entrepreneurs through new partnerships. In Sweden, in addition to several already established partnerships we now also work with the Swedish Prince Daniel’s fellowNetworks for innovation eral network meetings for innovaIn March 2014, almost 600 of SEB’s tion-driven companies and investors SME clients participated at the conduring the year. One example is the ference Innovation LAB. Meetings collaboration between SEB and were held in Tallinn, Riga and Vilnius Karolinska Institutet, The Royal and served as a source of inspiration School of Technology (KTH) and the for small businesses to innovate and incubator company Sting (Stockholm develop their business. SEB offered a Innovation & Growth). A similar range of lectures and helped innovainvestor evening was held in SEB in tors, business people and business Malmö. Six innovative companies advisors to inspire each other, share linked to Lund University, Malmö success stories, practical information University, Research Park Medeon and useful advice. and the incubator Minc, had the In Sweden, SEB organised sevopportunity to present their ideas. 36 SEB Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 OUR PRIORITIES. people and community supporting youth An eight year old girl plays the trumpet in an orchestra in Stockholm. The global, concept El Sistema, spread all over Sweden, not only helps children and youth to learn how to play an instrument but also promotes good leadership. promotion of music and good leadership In Gothenburg, SEB will in 2015 contribute to an inChildren and youth is the future, and we believe that all ternational youth camp where 3,000 children and young efforts to provide good living conditions to children and people gather to play, sing and dance. SEB also collaboteenagers are vitally important, for our common future. rates with the Chamber Orchestra Riga Sinfonietta and SEB has a broad engagement, both at national levels and the Estonian National Opera. in the local communities. Since 2005, we support the Royal Philharmonic Hundreds of employees in Mentor activities Orchestra in Stockholm and Gothenburg Symphony OrSEB has partnered with the charity organisation Mentor chestra. In 2014, we extended our partnership to also insince 1997, which strives to counter youth violence and clude support for the school orchestra concept El Sistema. drug use. During the year, more than 100 SEB employThis worldwide movement started in Venezuela in 1975 by ees were active in various Mentor activities and hence conductor José Antonio Abreu. El Sistema is now spread encountered more than 3,000 young people and their all over the world, including Sweden, and has proven to be parents in Sweden, Latvia and Lithuania. a successful method, not only to train young musicians, Over the years, lots of people have been mentors and but also to combat exclusion and drug abuse. El Sistema served as role models and a bridge into adulthood for also promotes good leadership and entrepreneurship. young people, often from disadvantaged environments. Broad Baltic engagement Promoting a healthy lifestyle In all the Baltic countries SEB contributes to children and Within our community engagement we also promote youth in need of extra support. In Estonia, SEB Charity health and wellness initiative and support various events Fund is the largest charity foundation, creating better and organisations in our home markets. In 2014, over opportunities in life for children from foster homes, giving 75,000 people participated in SEB supported running them opportunities to have a childhood experience similar competitions such as SEB Tallinn Marathon. to the one in ordinary families. Through SEB’s support, We are the main sponsor of the Swedish Tennis Associ1,000 children could participate in various activities. ation. Together we run SEB Next Generation, supporting In Latvia we partner with SOS Children Villages and more than 1,000 boys and girls around the Nordic region The Livslust Foundation where SEB provides financial between 10 and 15 years old. support for hundreds of young people, and is involved In Estonia, we support SEB Tallink Tennis Team with employees as volunteers. and Estonian Tennis Federation. 700 children had the In Lithuania, SEB organises with TV3 the “Dreams come opportunity to try tennis for free and 60 youth Grand true” campaign to raise money to provide support orphans Prix competitions groups were held. with education, health treatment, and other necessary aid. SEB Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 37 OUR PRIORITIES. people and community knowledge and education Knowledge and education annual SSE Riga tuition fees from EUR We actively support research and education through a 6,000 to EUR 3,500. number of programmes with universities, both by conSEB also grants scholarships for tributing to professorships and research projects and by best achievement for students in Latvia well-established partnerships for students at universities in cooperation with several universities in Sweden and around the Nordics. and institutions. SSE Riga was established in 1993 as a joint project In 2014, SEB supported the producbetween a Swedish institution of higher education and tion of Baltic Shadow Economy Index the Latvian Government with the purpose of offering Development, the Baltic Retirement Readiness Index, managerial training in business. The ownership strucintroduced by SEB Baltic Trygg Liv and provided expert ture now provides a foundation for future development knowledge in several export seminars with customers. and has been made possible through generous financial In Lithuania, SEB contributed to the annual conference support from SEB and the two other Swedish banks active of the Lithuanian Financial Markets Institute. The activity in the Baltic countries. was focused on specific Lithuanian financial market probSince 2012, we support SSE Riga Sustainable Business lems analysis and solutions based on scientific research. Centre. 720 scholarships were granted in 2012 to stu300 persons participated, among them 40 SEB clients. dents from the Baltic States over five years, reducing their Mitt Liv have not managed to enter the community investments SEB collaborates with Mitt Swedish labour market. Liv (My Life) in Gothenburg since 2011. Mitt Liv works to Stella increase diversity and inclusion The mentoring program Stella in the Swedish labour market. was founded in 2004 by the Through mentoring, training women’s network Carpe and expanded network of conCompetencia, with the aim of tacts, the organisation wants guiding the next generation to open doors for people of of women leaders. The annual foreign origin. program over the years has had • Youth16.2 Sports and culture29.4 SEB employees volunteer over 300 mentees and mentors • Entrepreneurship and innovation16.7 as mentors for one year. The as participants, committed • Education6.7 mentees are immigrants, often leaders of listed companies, • women, who have recently lengthened in the media and arrived in Sweden, and who deenabled exchanges across spite often extensive education generations. 38 SEB Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 OUR PRIORITIES. people and community access to financial services fare, in total about somewhere around 150 times in a year. SEB was the first bank in Lithuania to establish the position of a household economist in 2004 and to start active educational activities that would help strengthening What’s the issue? the skills of private individuals in managing their finances. Access to finance and banking services is crucial to Since then, the household economist continuously via economic growth. A responsible bank makes its services articles, seminars and lectures provides valuable advice available to all, regardless of socio-economic standing, to people on family finance management issues. Various ethnic origin, disability or other factors. By sharing our reports are published, such as Lithuanian Household specialist knowledge and developing tools and channels, Outlook, Baltic Household Outlook and Housing Affordawe empower people to make more informed financial bility Index. decisions and contribute to better functioning societies. In 2014, SEB in Lithuania participated in the Financial Education Week with other financial market players. Among other things, this resulted in about 7 000 children participating in Facebook test and about 1 000 school Spreading our knowledge children having lectures in classes. We continuously work to improve access to our services In Latvia, during Financial Competence Week, experts and to improve financial literacy in society. In Sweden, from SEB conducted lectures and seminars by educating our experts produce several reports every year within youth on the skills of practical money use. areas like macro, investment and house hold economy. Since long, Accessibility through channels and tools SEB’s experts and reports are highly We use our tools and services and our core competencies respected. Our macro-economic to provide greater access to financial services. expert Chief Economist Robert In Estonia, SEB launched Foorum – a new digital Bergqvist is one of the most quoted portal, in 2014. Here, SEB presents analyses and expert persons in Swedish media. opinions, as well as articles written by journalists. Topics SEB’s household economist in range from finance to management. Articles published Sweden actively shares advice and on Foorum are available for anyone who is interested in knowledge about savings, mortgages and welfare issues. various topics related to finance, better life planning and They are engaged in the network “Like Your Finances” management. formed by the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority To complement our branch offices and customer on behalf of the Ministry of Finance. The aim is to boost visits, SEB’s telephone customer service is open 24 hours consumer personal financial skills and increase the a day, all year. In Sweden, personal customer service is financial confidence. The network conducts educational available in 25 languages. Our expanded social media projects in personal finance for various targeted groups presence provides additional contacts with customers. such as pensioners, students and immigrants. We currently offer customer service via Facebook and In addition, SEB’s experts hold lectures and trainings Twitter in Sweden, Estonia and Latvia and via Facebook both externally and internally on personal finance and welin Lithuania where it also is possible to access contact centre via Skype free of charge – much appreciated by clients calling from abroad. Window to the Future SEB is the founder and member of Involving users and accessibility experts the Window to the Future Alliance, In 2014, we upgraded the Swedish Internet bank with a which was established in 2002. The new interface. In the development we involved users and alliance develops – in cooperation accessibility experts in order to create better accessibility with the country’s municipalities for all individuals with their different needs and abilities. and the Government – public InterWe also offer the security tool “Digipass”, adjusted net access centres in regions. It also for customers that are visually impaired to conduct finances and organises trainings for banking services via the Internet, the Telephone bank the population on how to use the and the self-service Bank by Phone. In Latvia, SEB has Internet. Currently, Window to the cooperated with the non-governmental organisation for Future has a strong focus on safer disabled persons, Apeiron, with an aim to improve access ways for using the Internet. to branches and ATM’s. SEB Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 39 Governance Governance of Corporate Sustainability good corporate governance is essential for how we run our business. This allows us to work effectively towards the same goals, also as regards sustainability aspects. High ethical and professional demands on the organisation and employeesare crucial and a prerequisite for creating value. SEB’s corporate sustainability work is based on Swedish Every year, we report how the principles have contributed laws and regulations as well as the internationally recto or affected our work. We do this in the document ognised guidelines and initiatives that we are committed Communication on Progress, published on our web site to. In particular, we emphasise the UN Global Compact, a www.sebgroup.com. strategic policy initiative for businesses that are commitIn addition, SEB is committed to the Principles for ted to aligning their operations and strategies based on Responsible Investments (PRI), the UNEP Finance initiaten principles covering the areas of: tive, the UN’s Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises • Human rights and the Equator Principles. • Labour standards and conditions The internal framework, which mirrors the above, • Environment primarily consists of our core values, SEB’s corporate • Anti-corruption sustainability related policies, Ethics policy and our Code of Business Conduct (see adjacent chart). Governance structure for the corporate sustainability work Board of Directors Decides on the Corporate Sustainability (CS) strategy, adopts the CS policy. As applicable, matters are dealt with by the Board or by any of its established committees; the Risk and Capital Committee; the Audit and Compliance Committee and the Remuneration and Human Resources Committee. President and Chief Executive Decides on the development and the execution of the corporate sustainability Officer (CEO) approach, in line with the strategy set by the Board. Adopts the Environmental Policy, the Human Rights Policy as well as Position Statements and Sector Policies. An operational steering group assigned by the president and CEO. Sets the Corporate Sustainability agenda for SEB’s sustainability work, follows-up on the development, practices (CS) Committee and progress and decides on policies (see adjacent chart). Chaired by the Head of Group Communications, member of the Group Executive Committee. Group Corporate Responsible for SEB’s day-to-day management of the corporate sustainability Sustainability activities in accordance with the directives of the Board. Co-ordinates and drives the overall sustainability agenda within SEB, ensures implementation and reports on progress. Local CS Committees; Business Manage the sustainability work on a daily basis within the specified division, and country coordinators; country or staff function. Report on progress. Programme Managers Managers and employees Each head of division, business area and group function is responsible for ensuring that activities are carried out and instructions are in accordance with applicable policies, such as the CS Policy. For information about corporate governance at SEB, please see the Corporate Governance report in the 2014 Annual Report, pages 44–61 or http://sebgroup.com/about-seb/corporate-governance 40 SEB Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 Governance Ethics Policy Code of Business Conduct Corporate Sustainability Human Rights Environmental Policy Policy Policy Sector Policies Position Statements • Arms and defence • Mining and metals • Climate Change • Forestry • Renewable energy The purpose of the Corporate Sustainability • Child Labour • Fossil fuels • Shipping Policy is to define the framework for sus• Freshwater tainability in SEB and provide a governing platform for SEB’s work. Members of SEB’s Corporate Sustainability Committee 2014 Viveka Hirdman-Ryrberg * Chair, Head of Group Communications Jonas Solehav Environmental Manager Johan Andersson * Chief Risk Officer David Teare * Head of Baltic Division Pontus Bergekrans Head of Investments, Life Division Moritz Wendt Head of Institutional Clients, Klas Eklund Senior Economist Wealth Division Marcus Franzén Head of Procurement Cecilia Widebäck West Head of Corporate Sustainability Jukka Honkaniemi Head of Corporate Coverage, additional members Merchant Banking Alexander Gibb Sustainability Coordinator, Martin Johansson * Head of Business Support Baltic Division Ingrid Jönsson Head of Region South, Retail Banking Elisabet Linge Bergman Sustainability Communications Maria Rönnberg Head of Talent Management, Johan Vieweg Head of Risk Management, Group HR Business Support * Member of the Group Executive Committee YEARS OF ACTION 2004 2015 2006 2008 2010 2012 2014 SEB published • Adoption of the UN Principles • Support Young Enterprising • Updated Code of • Launch of second micro Code of Business for Responsible Investments. (Ung Företagsamhet). Business Conduct. finance fund. Conduct. • Signatory of the Carbon • Support Mentor in Estonia • Launch of whis• Sector policy on Arms Disclosure Project. and Latvia. tle-blowing process. and defence revised. • First issue of green bonds • E xternal web site Sustainable • Renewed agreement • 300 employees attend – developed in co-operation Perspective launched. with Mentor. CS Summit 2014. between the World Bank and SEB. • Engagement with El Sistema 2004 2007 2009 2011 2013 SEB signed • First Nordic Bank to • Joined the Swedish Financial • Sector policies and position • SEB launched the UN adopt the Equator Coalition against child pornography. statements approved by microfinance fund. Global Principles. • First group-wide CS strategy and the GEC. • Facilitated first ever Compact. • SEB’s first Corporate framework decided upon by the • OECD Guidelines for corporate green bond as Sustainability Report Group Executive Committee. Multinational Enterprises, well as first green bond for published. • C S Report in line with Global revised. a Nordic municipality. Reporting Initiative guidelines. • Human Rights policy approved by the GEC. SEB Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 41 human rights. ABOUT THIS REPORT working with Human Rights We are committed to the UN Guiding principles on Corporate Sustainability was revised in 2014, with an Business and Human Rights which, in addition to the UN increased emphasis on human rights concern in the credit Global Compact, provide the framework for our work to process. Decisions are made by the established decision respect human rights. fora such as business and credit committees. When applicable, Group Corporate Sustainability is engaged and/or Policies and guidelines matters are escalated. • UN Global Compact signatory since 2004 • Code of Business Conduct since 2006 Sustainability risks are integrated • Equator Principles signatory 2007 Sustainability risks are integrated in investment decisions. • Group wide position statements since 2011 All investments and funds managed by SEB are screened. • Group wide sector policies since 2011 We exclude companies involved in certain activities such • Human Rights Policy since 2013 as the production or marketing of illegal weapons (anti• Code of Conduct for Suppliers since 2014 personnel landmines, cluster munitions, chemical and • Sector policy for arms and defence revised in 2014 biological weapons) and in the development or producwith a clear stance against nuclear weapons, and an tion phases of nuclear weapons programmes. In addition, increased focus on human rights. we apply our active ownership also to other risks related to human rights. Training and precautionary actions Human rights are included in a number of different We did a mapping of human rights and labour standard training within SEB, such as in Code of Business Conduct, practices across all SEB sites in 2012, which provided an corporate sustainability, sector policies, equator principles important foundation for the Human Rights Policy adopted and leadership training. in 2013. We are an active member of the Swedish Financial Position statements and sector policies are integrated Coalition Against Commercial Sexual Exploitation of into risk framework for business and credit decisions Children since 2009. The coalition works to prevent and relevant to country, sector and company. It started in obstruct payments for documented sexual abuse of chil2011 and is continuously evolving. The Credit Policy on dren through the Swedish financial system. ABOUT THIS REPORT this report describes seb’s approach and present taraccounting policies, please see AR pages 72–84.The ingets, guidelines, measures and key achievements related formation in this report is obtained from various internal to the Group’s contribution to sustainable development. systems and reports. The process to define what to include in this report inOur main reporting framework is the Global Reporting cludes feedback from previous reports from internal and Initiative, GRI, G4 guidelines for the Financial Services external stakeholders, the identification of material issues Sector. SEB reports in accordance with the G4 core. (described on pages 8 – 9), best practice within Corporate Previously, SEB has used the GRI G3 guidelines and the Sustainability (CS) reporting as well as important events Financial Services Supplement for reporting. Key aspects during the year. of SEB’s sustainability work, such as risk management, The reporting organisation’s name is Skandinaviska corporate governance and staff composition, remuneraEnskilda Banken AB (Publ) (“SEB”), headquartered in tion and benefits, are included in the annual accounts and Stockholm, Sweden. The report comprises the entire consolidated accounts of SEB. These are audited by PwC, organisation of the SEB Group, except as specifically please see Auditor’s report AR p. 155. SEB’s auditor PwC stated in connection with certain indicators. has also been engaged to perform a limited review of the SEB has published a CS report annually since 2007. full CS Report, including a GRI application check. Our The report covers the preceding fiscal year, January to GRI index is found on pages 43–48. December 2014. In some cases information for early As part of SEB’s commitment to the UN Global Com2015 is included. The previous report was published in pact, we report on our activities and performance through March 2014. There has been no significant change from a combination of this report and an annual Communication the previous report in scope and boundary. Applicable on Progress (COP). Our COP table of reference can be found organisational changes for the SEB Group are described online at www.sebgroup.com/sustainability. in the Annual Report 2014 (AR), page 34. For details on 42 SEB Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 gri index GRI INDEX SEB 2014 A GRI application check of our reporting has been made Report 2014 (CS), the inside front cover (CS IFC), inside by PWC, according to which SEB reports in accordance back cover (CS IBC), the Annual Report 2014 (AR) and with GRI G4 Core. www.sebgroup.com/sustainability (www). Page references relate to the Corporate Sustainability Standard disclosures GRI title of the disclosure page reference omissions G4 Strategy and Analysis G4-1 CEO statement CS 1 G4-2 Key impacts, risks and opportunities CS 5, 10 11 Organisational profile G4-3 Name of the organisation CS IBC G4-4 Primary brands, products, and services CS IFC, AR IFC, AR 8-9 G4-5 Location of the organization’s headquarters CS IBC G4-6 Countries of operation CS IFC, AR IFC, AR 8-9 G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form AR 26-27 G4-8 Markets served CS IFC; AR IFC, AR 8-9 G4-9 Scale of the organization CS IFC, AR IFC , AR 34-41, 97, CS 51 G4-10 Employees CS 5154 G4-11 Collective bargaining agreements CS 35, 53 G4-12 Supply chain CS 28 G4-13 Significant operational or other changes during the reporting period AR 34, CS 28 G4-14 Precautionary approach or principle CS 22-28 G4-15 Externally economic, environmental and social charters, principles, or other CS 1, 16, 23 24, 27, 36-38, CS IBC, initiatives www G4-16 Memberships of associations (such as industry associations) and national or CS 1, 16 , CS IBC, www international advocacy organisations Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries G4-17 Entities included in the organization’s consolidated financial statements AR 127 129 G4-18 Process for defining the report content and the Aspect Boundaries CS 8, 42 G4-19 Material Aspects identified CS 89, 44 G4-20 Aspect Boundary inside organisation CS 44 G4-21 Aspect Boundary outside the oranisation CS 44 G4-22 Effect of any restatements of information provided in previous reports, CS 31, 42 and the reasons for such restatements. G4-23 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the Scope and Aspect CS 42 Boundaries Stakeholder Engagement G4-24 Stakeholder groups engaged by the organisation CS 6 G4-25 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage CS 6 G4-26 Approach to stakeholder engagement CS 6 -9 G4-27 Topics and concerns raised through stakeholder engagement CS 6, 8 Report Profile G4-28 a. Reporting period (such as fiscal or calendar year) for information provided. CS 42 G4-29 a. Date of most recent previous report CS 42 G4-30 a. Reporting cycle CS 42 G4-31 a. Provide the contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents. CS IBC G4-32 a. Report the ‘in accordance’ option the organization has chosen. CS 42 Report in accordance with b. Report the GRI Content Index for the chosen option (see tables below). Core G4-33 External assurance for the report CS 42, 56 SEB Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 43 gri index Global Reporting Initiative G4 Material Aspects and Boundaries G4-20 and G4-21 All aspects are material across the SEB Group, in all geographic locations where we operate. Category/ Sub Aspects Boundary SEB Material issue Supporting strategic documents category Economic Economic Material inside and outside of SEB in particular for our custoFinancial strength and Corporate Governance, SEB Business plan, Code of Business performance mers, employees and shareholders resilience Conduct Economic Economic Material outside of SEB in particular for our customers and Risk management Corporate Governance Report, Risk Policy, Credit Policy performance shareholders/investors Economic Indirect EconoMaterial inside and outside of SEB in particular for our custoSupporting entrepreCode of Business Conduct, Corporate Sustainability Policy, mic Impacts mers, employees and the communities in which we operate neurship Sponsorship policy, Economic Indirect EconoMaterial inside and outside of SEB in particular for our custoEngaging in local Code of Business Conduct, Corporate Sustainability Policy, mic Impacts mers, employees and the communities in which we operate communities Sponsorship policy, Economic Indirect EconoMaterial inside and outside of SEB in particular for our custoFinancial inclusion Code of Business Conduct, Corporate Sustainability Policy, mic Impacts mers, employees and the communities in which we operate Sponsorship policy, Economic Procurement Material inside and outside of SEB in particular for our suppResponsible sourcing Supplier Code of Conduct, Procurement Instruction, Code Practices liers, customers and the communities in which we operate. of Business Conduct, Ethics Policy, Environmental Policy, Human Rights Policy, Social / Product Product and Material inside and outside of SEB in particular for our custoCustomer loyalty and Business strategy and business plan, Code of Business and Service services mers, employees and shareholders/investors. experience Conduct, Corporate Sustainability Policy Social / Product Product Material outside of SEB in particular for our customers, Integrating ESG in Corporate Sustainability Policy, Environmental Policy, and Service portfolio shareholders/investors and society at large financing and investHuman Rights Policy, Credit Policy, Position Statements and ments Sector Policies, Credit Policy on Corporate Sustainability Social / Product Active owMaterial outside of SEB in particular for our customers, Integrating ESG in Ownership Policy, Corporate Sustainability Policy, Environand Service nership shareholders/investors and society at large financing and investmental Policy, Human Rights Policy, Position Statements and ments Sector Policies Social / Product Product Material outside of SEB in particular for our customers, Sustainability profiled Corporate Sustainability Policy, Environmental Policy, Human and Service portfolio shareholders/investors and society at large products and services Rights Policy, Position Statements and Sector Policies Social / Product Product Material inside and outside of SEB in particular for our custoDigitisation Code of Business Conduct, Corporate Sustainability Policy, and Service portfolio mers, employees and shareholders/investors Human Rights Policy Social / Product Product Material inside and outside of SEB in particular for our custoCapacity for innovation Code of Business Conduct and Service portfolio mers, employees and shareholders/investors Social / Product Product and Material outside of SEB in particular for our customers Responsible selling Code of Business Conduct, Corporate Sustainability Policy, Responsibility service labelling and consumer advice Ethics Policy, Human Rights Policy Social / Product Marketing and Material outside of SEB in particular for our customers Business Ethics and Code of Business Conduct, Corporate Sustainability Policy, Responsibility communications culture Ethics Policy, Human Rights Policy, Marketing Communication Instruction Social / Product Customer Material outside of SEB in particular for our customers Data protection Code of Business Conduct, Information Security, IT Responsibility privacy Instruction Social / labour Training and Material inside and outside of SEB in particular for our Talent management People strategy, Corporate Sustainability Policy, Human practices and education existing and potential employees, and for our customers and Rights Policy decent work investors. Social / labour Employment Material inside and outside of SEB in particular for our Employee engagement Business Plan, People strategy, Corporate Sustainability practices and existing and potential employees, and for our customers and Policy, Human Rights Policy decent work investors. Social / labour Diversity and Material inside of SEB in particular for our existing and Working conditions Code of Business Conduct, Human Rights Policy, Security practices and equal opportupotential employees. Policy decent work nities Social / Society Anti-corruption Material inside and outside of SEB in particular for our Business Ethics and Code of Business Conduct, Ethics Policy employees, customers and shareholders. culture Social / Society Local commuMaterial inside and outside of SEB in particular for our Engaging in local Code of Business Conduct, Corporate Sustainability Policy, nities employees, customers, suppliers, shareholders and the comcommunities Sponsorship policy, Human Rights Policy munities in which we operate. Social / Society Public policy Material outside of SEB in particular for our shareholders and Tax transparency and Corporate Governance, Code of Business Conduct, the communities in which we operate. public affairs Environment Environment Material inside and outside of SEB in particular for our Resource efficiency in Corporate Sustainability Policy, Environmental Policy, overall employees, customers, suppliers, shareholders and the comsociety Position Statements on Climate Change and Freshwater and munities in which we operate. Sector Policies Environment Emissions Material inside and outside of SEB in particular for our Direct environmental Corporate Sustainability Policy, Environmental Policy, Posiemployees, suppliers and the communities in which we impact tion Statements on Climate Change and Freshwater operate. 44 SEB Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 gri index GRI title of the disclosure page reference omissions G4 Governance G4-34 Governance structure AR 44-57, CS 40-41 Ethics and Integrity G4-56 Values, principles, standards and norms of behaviour such as codes of conduct CS IFC, CS 40-41, www and codes of ethics. Disclosures on Management Approach G4-DMA a. Report on why the Aspects are material a. CS 6-11, 44; c. CS 8, 11-17, 44, www b. Management of the material Aspect or its impacts. b. CS 11-15, 40-41, 44, www; c. Evaluation of the management approach c. CS 8, 11-17, 44 SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES Economic DMA Economic Performance Generic DMA: a. Report on why the Aspects are material. b. Management of the a. CS 2-3, 10 b. AR 6 7, 28 33, 34 material Aspect or its impacts. c. Evaluation of the management approach . 43, 44 61 c. AR 34 43 Market Presence Generic DMA a.CS 18 b. CS IFC, CS 19 20, AR 12 13 Indirect Economic Impacts Generic DMA a. CS 22, 26, 36, 39 b. CS 23 30, 36 39 c. CS 12 13 Aspect specific DMA a. CS 22 -30, 36 39 b. CS 39 Procurement Practices Generic DMA a. CS 28 b. CS 28 c. CS 13, 28 Aspect specific DMA CS 28 Financial Services, Sector Disclosures Community involGeneric DMA CS 11, 13, 36 39 vement Aspect: Economic Performance G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed CS 2-3, 10, 49 Financial Services, Sector Disclosures G4-EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organisations CS 1, 5, 23, 26 27, 29 30, www activities due to climate change G4-EC 8 Significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of impacts CS 2 -3, 4 5 Environmental Energy Generic DMA a. CS 31, 8-9, 44 b. CS 1, 10 13, 14 15, 31 c. CS 13, 31 Aspect specific DMA SEB is not subject to regulations on energy or emissions. Emissions Generic DMA a. CS 31 b. CS 1, 10 13, 14 15, 31 c. CS 13, 31, 55 Aspect: Energy G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organisation CS 11, 13, 31, 55 G4-EN4 energy consumption outside of the organisation CS 11, 13, 31, 55 G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption CS 31, 55 Aspect: Emissions G4-EN16 Energy indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 2) CS 55 G4-EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 3) CS 55 Financial Services, Sector Disclosures G4-EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions CS 11, 13, 31, 55 G4-EN23 Effluents and waste CS 55 SEB Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 45 gri index GRI title of the disclosure page reference omissions G4 Category: Social Sub-Category: Social Labour practices and decent work DMA Employment Generic DMA a. CS, 6, 8-9, 32, 44 b. CS 1, 10 13, 21, 32 35, AR 22 23, 87 97, CS 21, 28 Aspect specific DMA CS 21, 28 Labor/Management relations Generic DMA a.b. CS 1, 10 13, 21, 32 25, AR 87 97, c. CS 1, 10 13, 32 35, 53 Occupational Health and Safety Generic DMA a.b. CS 1, 10 13, 21, 32 25, AR 23, 33, c. CS 1, 10 13, 32 35 Aspect specific DMA CS 35, 53 Financial Services, Sector Disclosures (Occupational Health and Safety) Policies and practices regarding threats and violence in place to assist workforCS 35, 21 ce members, their families, or community members Training and Education Generic DMA a. CS 6, 8-9, 32 33, 44 b. CS 1, 11, 13, 32 35 c. CS 1, 13, 33, 54 Diversity and Equal Opportunity Generic DMA a. CS 6, 8-9, 32 33, 44 b. CS 1, 11, 13, 32 35 c. CS 1, 13, 33, 53 54 Aspect: Employment G4-LA1 Total number and rates of new employee hires and employee turnover by age CS 52 Employee group, gender and region turnover by gender omitted due to method change. To be reported for 2015 G4-LA2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or CS 32 35, AR 58 59, 87 97 part-time employees, by significant locations Aspect: Occupational Health and Safety G4-LA5 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management-worker CS 35, 53 health and safety committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programmes Aspect: Training and Education G4-LA10 Programs for skills management and lifelong learnings that support the contiCS 32 33, 54 nued employability Aspect: Diversity and Equal Opportunity LA12 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees CS 51-53, AR 44 57 Sub-Category: Human Rights DMA Investment Generic DMA a. b. CS 1, 5 6, 8-9, 11, 14 15, 23 27, 28, 41, 44 c. CS 12 13, 42 Aspect specific DMA CS 22 23, 26 -27, 28, 34, 42 Aspect: Investment G4-HR1 Total number and percentage of significant investment agreements and contracts CS 23-24, 26 27, www that include human rights clauses or that underwent human rights screening 46 SEB Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 gri index GRI title of the disclosure page reference omissions G4 Sub-Category: Society DMA Anti-corruption Generic DMA a. 18, www (Code of business Conduct) b. CS 1, 11-13, 16, 19 21, 22 27, AR 52, c. CS 12 -13, AR 109 Aspect specific DMA a. 18, www (Code of business Conduct) b. CS 1, 11-13, 16, 19 21, 22 27, AR 52, c. CS 12 -13, AR 109 Public Policy Generic DMA a.CS 6, 8-9, 16, 44 b. CS 1, 10 11, 16, 19 Aspect specific DMA CS 16, 24, AR 60 61 Aspect: Anti-corruption G4-SO4 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and procedures CS 19, 21, AR 52, 109, www Aspect: Public Policy G4-SO6 Total value of political contributions by country and recipient/beneficiary CS 16 None Financial Services, Sector Disclosures Local communities G4-FS14 Initiatives to improve access to financial services for disadvantaged people CS 39 Sub-Category: Product Responsibility DMA Product and Service Labelling Generic DMA a. CS 6, 8-9,18, 44 b. 5, 10 19, AR 11 21, c. CS 12 13, AR 11 21, 156 Aspect specific DMA CS 19, AR 11 21, 156 Marketing Communications Generic DMA a. CS 6, 8-9, 18, 44 b. 5, 10 19, AR 11 21, c. CS 12 13, AR 11 21, 156 Customer Privacy Generic DMA a. CS 8-9, 20 21, 44, AR 33, 61 b. CS 18 21, AR 33, 61 c. AR 33, 109 Financial Services, Sector Disclosures Product and Service Generic DMA CS 11-13, 18 20, 44, AR 6-7, 10-21, Labelling 156 Product Aspect specific DMA CS 14 15, 19 20, 22 27, 29 30, Portfolio 44, www Active Aspect specific DMA CS 22 25, www Ownership Aspect: Product and Service Labelling G4-PR5 Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction CS 19, AR 7, 11, 15, 19, 156 Financial Services, Sector Disclosures Product Portfolio/Audit G4-FS6 Percentage of the portfolio for business lines by specific region, size (e.g. micro/ AR 8 9, 82 83 SME/large) and by sector G4-FS7 Monetary value of products and services designed to deliver a specific social CS 19 20, 23, 25, 50 benefit for each business line broken down by purpose G4-FS8 Monetary value of products and services designed to deliver a specific environCS 29 30, CS 50 mental benefit for each business line broken down by purpose Active ownership G4-FS10 Number of companies with which engagement dialogues has been held CS 23 24, 50 G4-FS11 Percentage of assets subject to positive and negative environmental or social CS 23 24, 26 27 screening SEB Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 47 short facts. key perfomance indicators 48 SEB Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 short facts. key perfomance indicators Key performance indicators ECONOMIC INDICATORS direct economic value generated and distributed NOTE UNIT 2014 2013 2012 2011 Total income generated 1 SEK m 96,600 84,854 92,032 91,209 value distributed Interest expense SEK m 28,681 30,896 36,159 39,262 Fee and commission expense SEK m 5,112 4,469 4,716 4,848 Insurance expenses, net 2 SEK m 15,873 7,936 12,773 9,548 Other operating costs 2 SEK m 6,310 6,299 6,444 7,424 Employee salary and other compensation SEK m 9,431 9,084 9,536 9,676 Employees pension costs, benefits, education and other staff 2,162 related costs 1 SEK m 1,758 2,279 2,351 Employee social charges SEK m 2,571 2,666 2,709 2,487 Dividends (shareholders) 3 SEK m 10,382 8,719 6,004 3,795 Tax on profit (for details see below) 1 SEK m 4,129 3,338 2,093 2,942 Stability fee and Deposit insurance SEK m 1,147 1,114 1,098 995 Financial assistance received from government SEK m 0 0 0 0 Economic contribution to community investments 4 SEK m 69 55 53 53.8 This year’s profit that is reinvested into the bank SEK m 8,836 6,052 5,628 7,024 tax by geography (comparable with note 2, group by geography, page 81, SEB Annual Report 2014) Sweden SEK m –2,096 –1,762 –510 –1,548 Denmark SEK m –360 –391 –343 –284 Finland SEK m –232 9 –182 – 47 Norway SEK m –574 –508 –700 –309 Latvia SEK m –33 – 45 –25 –139 Estonia 5 SEK m 0 0 0 0 Lithuania SEK m –200 –73 –58 –158 Germany SEK m –258 –315 –106 – 48 Other 6 SEK m –376 –253 –169 – 409 Total SEK m – 4,129 –3,338 –2,093 –2942 community investment Economic contribution to community investments, share of operating % 0.3 0.3 0.4 0.4 4 profit Economic contribution to community investments, 4 SEK m 69 55.3 53 53.8 of which Donations SEK m 1 n/a n/a n/a Economic community investments, by theme Entrepreneurship (incl entrepreneurship among children and youth) SEK m 16.7 7 n/a n/a Children and youth SEK m 16.2 19.5 n/a n/a Sports and culture SEK m 29.4 24.5 n/a n/a Education and know how SEK m 6.7 4.3 n/a n/a Other SEK m 0.3 n/a n/a n/a Economic contribution by Country Sweden SEK m 42.7 32 n/a n/a Estonia SEK m 7.4 5.3 n/a n/a Latvia SEK m 6.8 4.9 n/a n/a Lithuania SEK m 4.1 2.7 n/a n/a Denmark SEK m 3 2.8 n/a n/a Norway SEK m 3.6 2.8 n/a n/a Finland SEK m 2.4 2 n/a n/a notes 1. R  estated 2011, reflecting changes in the Group’s accounting policies relating to 5. In Estonia no income tax is paid unless profit is distributed as dividend. No the accounting of defined benefit plans as well as organisational changes. deferred tax liability is recognised related to possible future tax costs on divi2. Supplier cash expense, includes applicable VAT, partly included in insurance dends from Estonia. The tax rate applicable to dividends is 21 per cent. expenses and in other operating expenses, 6. Income tax expense for Other countries includes Great Britain SEK –107m, 3. Dividends for the fiscal year, paid out to shareholders the following year. Proposed. United States SEK –103m and Luxembourg SEK –96m. 4. Community investments included in other operating costs. SEB Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 49 short facts. key perfomance indicators RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS indicators responsible selling and marketing NOTE UNIT 2014 2013 2012 2011 Savings product Digikassa, aggregate amount saved (Estonia) SEKm 79.6 36.3 n/a n/a Savings product Digikassa, number of contracts (Estonia) Number 64,089 50,000 13,000 n/a Savings product Digikassa, average amount saved per contract (Estonia) SEK 1,290 722 n/a n/a customer feedback Total customer complaints, Retail banking Sweden 1 Number 4,205 4,781 6,125 6,348 Total customer complaints, Retail banking Baltic Number n/a (Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania) 1 25,205 17,476 20,482 Net promoter Score, Private advisory, Baltic NPS 50 41 43 n/a Net promoter Score, SME advisoty, Baltic NPS 48 37 37 n/a Net promoter Score, Private advisory, Sweden NPS 33 26 19 n/a Net promoter Score, SME 0-5 advisory, Sweden NPS 33 24 19 n/a Best Nordic bank for corporations, Prospera rank 1 2 1 4 Best client relationship bank in Sweden, Prospera rank 1 2 1 1 tackling financial crime Employees completed anti-money laundring education % 99 93 90 93 Employees completed fraud prevention education % 54 53 51 49 Employees completed information security education % 75 75 n/a n/a Suspicious market transactions (MAD) reported Number 31 21 20 35 Branch office robberies (Sweden, Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania) Number 0 1 3 1 Card fraud costs, Nordic countries SEKm 53 50 50.9 34.2 reponsible investments Total assets under management (AuM) – Investment Management SEKbn 1,635 1,408 1,228 1,175 Assets managed in accordance with PRI 2 SEKbn 513 n/a n/a n/a Number of Socially Responsible investment/Ethical funds Number 18 17 16 15 Total assets under management in SRI/ethical funds, % 2.27 1.93 1.72 1.26 share of total AuM Total assets under management in SRI/ethical funds SEKm 37,195 27,271 21,135 14,848 Wherof assets managed for institutional clients SEKm 19,320 15,150 12,383 9,172 Total engagement dialogues with portfolio companies Number 239 196 247 259 sustainable finance Green Bonds – money raised since inception USDbn 7.7 3.5 2.5 2 Green Bonds – number of issues, current year Number 27 n/a n/a n/a Green Bonds – number of investors, cumulative Number 293 195 n/a n/a Green Bonds number of investors, current year Number 103 n/a n/a n/a Green car leasing, number of cars (Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania) Number 1,028 1,360 408 n/a Green car leasing, amount (Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania) SEKm 146 162 23 n/a Eco-renovation projects, number (Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania) Number 166 244 210 n/a Eco-renovation projects, amount (Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania) SEKm 160 229 288 n/a Equator Principles, number of investments Number 9 11 3 12 of which Category A transactions approved Number 0 0 0 1 of which Category B transactions approved Number 9 8 0 7 of which Category C transactions approved Number 0 3 3 4 Project relatec corporate loans, EP applicable Number 2 n/a n/a n/a of which Category A transactions approved Number 1 n/a n/a n/a of which Category B transactions approved Number 1 n/a n/a n/a of which Category B transactions approved Number 0 n/a n/a n/a notes 1) N  umber of customer complaints in the three Baltic banks include issues raised in relation to ATM’s , that is not the case for Sweden 2) Funds managed by SEB through SEB Fund companies. 50 SEB Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 short facts. key perfomance indicators people headcount NOTE UNIT 2014 2013 2012 2011 Total headcount, including part-time employees Number 16,767 16,717 17,474 18,862 Headcount by division and support function Merchant Banking 1 % 14 14 15 14 Retail Banking (including SEB Kort) 1 % 21 21 21 22 Wealth Management % 6 6 6 6 Life % 8 8 8 7 Baltic % 18 18 18.5 17 Business Support % 24 25 23.5 21 Group Staff and control function % 9 8 8 8 Other 2 % 0 0 5 5 Headcount by region Sweden % 50 50 50 47 Lithuania % 15 13 n/a n/a Latvia % 9 9 n/a n/a Estonia % 7 8 n/a n/a Baltic % n/a n/a 29 28 Nordic countries (excl Sweden) % 8 9 9 8 Germany 2 % 5 6 6 12 Other 2 % 6 5 6 5 Headcount by age –29 % 16 17 18 20 30 –39 % 30 30 30 30 40 – 49 % 29 30 30 29 50 – % 24 24 22 21 Employees by gender Male % 44 43 44 43 Female % 56 57 56 57 Employees by employment type Permanent 3 % 96 97 n/a n/a Temporary 3 % 4 3 n/a n/a Permanent, (male/female) % 44/56 n/a n/a n/a Temporary, (male/female) % 41/59 n/a n/a n/a Employees working part-time % 1,423 n/a n/a n/a Employees working part-time, (male/female) % 21/79 n/a n/a n/a employee turnover Total employee turnover 4 % 8.9 11.1 9.3 9.3 Employee turnover by country /region Sweden % 5.8 7.4 n/a n/a Lithuania % 12.1 12.5 n/a n/a Latvia % 12.2 9.2 n/a n/a Estonia % 8.6 13.6 n/a n/a Nordic countries (excl Sweden) % 10.7 16.6 n/a n/a Germany % 12.9 23.5 n/a n/a Average length of employment Years n/a 11.8 11.6 11.1 Less than 2 years (share of employees) % 13 11 14 16 2– 4 years (share of employees) % 17 18 20 18 5 –9 years (share of employees) % 24 25 26 18 10 or more years % 46 46 40 47 notes 1) In 2013, MidCorporate including Public sector in Sweden moved from Merchant 4) Definition of total employee turnover: Total leavers divided by the average popBanking to Retail ulation for the period 2) Retail Banking operations in Ukraine divested in 2012, Retail Banking opera5) Only Sweden tions in Germany divested in 2011 6) External spend in relation to av FTEs present 3) I n previous report (2013) consultants were included in “temporary”. 7) Wallenberg, IBS, Artex, ASP 8) LinA, MIP SEB Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 51 short facts. key perfomance indicators people headcount NOTE UNIT 2014 2013 2012 2011 recruitment Employee growth rate, net change % 0.3 – 4.5 –9.0 0.2 Employee growth rate, net change Number 50 –756 –1,388 102 Joiners, total headcount 1,467 n/a n/a n/a Sweden Number 468 n/a n/a n/a Estonia Number 110 n/a n/a n/a Latvia Number 137 n/a n/a n/a Lithuania Number 374 n/a n/a n/a Nordic countries (excl Sweden) Number 150 n/a n/a n/a Germany Number 52 n/a n/a n/a Leavers, total headcount Number 1,496 1,882 2,488 1,838 of which retired Number 166 148 139 141 Sweden Number 482 n/a n/a n/a Estonia Number 119 n/a n/a n/a Latvia Number 187 n/a n/a n/a Lithuania Number 272 n/a n/a n/a Nordic countries (excl Sweden) Number 153 n/a n/a n/a Germany Number 118 n/a n/a n/a Share of leavers that are voluntary % 96 88 96 97 Internal job market Internal job postings 5 1,033 892 1,049 1,284 External recruitments 5 521 224 285 833 Number of internal career days, etc 5 2 4 5 4 employee engagement and performance management Employee survey Insight Employee participation rate in employee survey % 84 85 n/a n/a Share of employees I am confident in the future of SEB % 86 81 n/a n/a Share of employees I would highly recommend SEB % 76 69 n/a n/a as a place to work Share of employees who think their manager fosters an open, % 81 78 n/a n/a honest and transparent culture Employee engagement index Index 75 70 n/a n/a Performance Excellence Index Index 78 74 n/a n/a Employees that understand how their targets are linked to % 80 78 n/a n/a SEB's vision, strategy and goals I am satisfied with my opportunities for development. % 64 60 n/a n/a The coaching I receive from my manager is helpful in improving my % 75 69 n/a n/a performance My work environment is accepting of individual differences (reli% 91 88 n/a n/a gion, cultural background, ethnicity, lifestyle, gender, etc) Engagement Number of intranet chats with executive management conducted Number 9 10 12 11 Total number of questions in chats Number 390 300 350 500 Average employee participation rate in chats % 46 55 48 45 (live or passive reading afterwards) Number of employee meetings for value dialogues, round table Number 153 n/a n/a n/a meetings etc. notes 1) In 2013, MidCorporate including Public sector in Sweden moved from Merchant 4) Definition of total employee turnover: Total leavers divided by the average popBanking to Retail ulation for the period 2) Retail Banking operations in Ukraine divested in 2012, Retail Banking opera5) Only Sweden tions in Germany divested in 2011 6) External spend in relation to av FTEs present 3) I n previous report (2013) consultants were included in “temporary”. 7) Wallenberg, IBS, Artex, ASP 8) LinA, MIP 52 SEB Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 short facts. key perfomance indicators people headcount NOTE UNIT 2014 2013 2012 2011 diversity and equal opportunities Gender by region (male/female) Sweden % 49/51 49/51 49/51 49/51 Lithuania % 30/70 29/71 n/a n/a Latvia % 26/74 26/74 n/a n/a Estonia % 24/76 49/51 n/a n/a Baltic % n/a n/a 27/73 27/73 Nordic countries (excl Sweden) % 57/43 58/42 57/43 56/44 Germany % 56/44 56/44 58/42 59/41 Gender by management type all managers (male/female) % 57/43 58/42 58/42 57/43 Senior managers (top mgmt fd) (male/female) % 75/25 74/26 76/24 77/23 Middle managers (male/female) % 62/38 62/38 61/39 62/38 First line managers (male/female) % 48/52 49/51 50/50 46/54 Staff (male/female) % 41/59 43/57 42/58 41/59 Number of nationalities represented in global trainee programme Number 4 4 5 6 Individuals identified in Global Talent Review Number 1,757 n/a n/a n/a Individuals identified in Global Talent Review (male/female) % 60/40 n/a n/a n/a labour/management relations Percent of employees with collective or local agreement % 100 100 100 n/a Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agree% 100 100 100 100 ments – Sweden Number of countries represented in EWC Number 12 n/a n/a n/a Share of employees represented in EWC vs potential maximum % 100 n/a n/a n/a Number of employees repersented in EWC Number 16,492 n/a n/a n/a Share of employees represented in EWC % 97.5 n/a n/a n/a Number of meetings between management and EWC Number 5 n/a n/a n/a Number of meetings/consultations in cooperation with EWC Number 8 n/a n/a n/a health and workplace safety Sick-leave rate, share of ordinary working hours 5 % 2.41 2.44 2.55 2.5 Short-term sick leave rate 5 % 1.67 1.83 1.66 1.60 Female 5 % 2.23 2.54 2.10 1.80 Male 5 % 1.12 1.12 1.22 1.30 Long-term sick leave rate 5 % 0.74 0.66 0.89 1.10 Female 5 % 1.14 1.06 1.35 1.70 Male 5 % 0.34 0.26 0.43 0.40 Share of documented annual work envirnment reviews 5 % 84 90 73 n/a Share of employees participating in wellness check (biannual) 5 % n/a 74 n/a n/a Employee assistance Programme Samtasstöd på telefon Number of calls 5 Number 180 200 150 n/a Countries with programme Number 2 2 2 n/a Share of employee covered by Safety/health & safety management % 99 99 99 99 system/certification notes 1) In 2013, MidCorporate including Public sector in Sweden moved from Merchant 4) Definition of total employee turnover: Total leavers divided by the average popBanking to Retail ulation for the period 2) Retail Banking operations in Ukraine divested in 2012, Retail Banking opera5) Only Sweden tions in Germany divested in 2011 6) External spend in relation to av FTEs present 3) I n previous report (2013) consultants were included in “temporary”. 7) Wallenberg, IBS, Artex, ASP 8) LinA, MIP SEB Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 53 short facts. key perfomance indicators people general indicators NOTE UNIT 2014 2013 2012 2011 competence and development Highest educational level achieved University > 3 years % 55 53 51 52 University < 3 years % 9 10 10.5 10 Upper secondary school % 27 28 28 28 Compulsory school % 3 3 4.5 4 Other/unspecified % 6 7 6 6 Emploees that understand how their targets are linked to SEB’s vision, % 80 78 n/a n/a strategy and goals, Insight survey I am satisfied with my opportunities for development, Insight survey % 64 60 n/a n/a The coaching I receive from my manager is helpful in improving my % 75 69 n/a n/a performance, Insight survey Money investerd in training and development per employee (average) 5,6 SEK 7,992 7,025 7,273 n/a Hours spent on training and development in total Hours 186,782 n/a n/a n/a Hours spent on “rapid-e-learnings”, webinars, films etc Hours 60,194 n/a n/a n/a Employees taking part of “rapid-e-learnings”, webinars, films, etc Number 14,344 n/a n/a n/a Employees taking part of formalised training programmes Number 6,896 n/a n/a n/a Employees participating in leadership programmes by application (m/f) 7 Number 398/446 n/a n/a n/a Employees participating in leadership programmes by nomination (m/f) 8 Number 210/197 n/a n/a n/a compensation & Benefits Total employee renumeration (including social charges) SEK m 13,760 14,029 14,597 13,933 Short-term variable cash compensation in relation to total employee % 4 5 7 10 remuneration Redundancy costs SEKm 138 267 413 135 notes 1) In 2013, MidCorporate including Public sector in Sweden moved from Merchant 4) Definition of total employee turnover: Total leavers divided by the average popBanking to Retail ulation for the period 2) Retail Banking operations in Ukraine divested in 2012, Retail Banking opera5) Only Sweden tions in Germany divested in 2011 6) External spend in relation to av FTEs present 3) I n previous report (2013) consultants were included in “temporary”. 7) Wallenberg, IBS, Artex, ASP 8) LinA, MIP 54 SEB Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 short facts. key perfomance indicators ENVIRONMENTAL INDICATORs general indicators NOTE UNIT 2014 2013 2012 2011 Number of offices reporting (whereof branch offices) 297(279) 302 (282) 316 (294) 376 (335) Net internal area of reporting offices covered m2 413,465 426,297 438,915 401,724 Full-time employees (FTE) covered FTE 15,714 15,851 16,578 16,704 carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions Total CO2 emissions 1 Tonnes 24,614 28,501 28,497 34,590 CO2 emissions from energy consumption Tonnes 8,706 9,543 9,308 11,120 CO2 emissions from business travel Tonnes 12,947 15,496 15,154 18,761 CO2 emissions from paper consumption Tonnes 983 1,139 1,203 1,540 CO2 emissions from company cars Tonnes 1,978 2,323 2,832 3,169 Total CO2 emissions / employee Tonnes 1.57 1.8 1.7 2.1 energy consumption Total energy consumption (in buildings) MWh 102,198 115,930 112,348 121,406 Electricity MWh 72,826 80,570 85,114 91,758 Change in electricity consumption compared to the year before % -9 -5 -7 -16 Other energy sources MWh 29,371 35,360 27,233 29,648 Renewable energy percentage of total electricity consumption % 79 82 87 72 Total energy consumption/m2 MWh/m2 0.25 0.27 0.26 0.30 Total energy consumption/employee MWh/FTE 6.5 7.3 6.8 7.3 Voluntary carbon offsets purchased Tonnes 0 0 0 38,598 resource efficiency Paper Total paper consumption Tonnes 850 972 1,014 1,290 Graphic paper consumption Tonnes 371 398 453 605 Supplies paper consumption Tonnes 479 573 560 685 Environmentally labelled paper consumption Tonnes 785 823 863 978 Environmental paper use share of total % 92 85 85 76 Total paper consumption / employee (FTE) Tonnes 0.05 0.06 0.06 0.09 Waste Waste generation Tonnes 2,093 2,944 2,422 1,945 Total waste generation / employee (FTE) Tonnes 0.13 0.19 0.15 0.12 Waste recyling Tonnes 1,272 1,537 1,760 1,709 Percentage waste reused or recycled % 61 52 73 88 Water Total water consumption in buildings m3 171,600 165,873 142,132 130,442 Total water consumption / employee (FTE) m3 10.92 10.46 8.57 7.81 business travel & company car fleet Total business travel 2 Million km 71.9 64.9 63.2 76.2 Total business travel / employee Km 4,576 4,094 3,812 4,564 Total air travel 4 Million km 67.4 61.2 59.2 71.7 Domestic Million km 6.4 5.8 5.7 6.8 Short-haul Million km 41.1 37.3 36.1 43.7 Long-haul Million km 19.9 18.1 17.5 21.2 Train travel (Sweden) Million km 4.5 3.7 4.0 4.5 Environmentally certified company cars share of company car fleet 3 % 61 52 39 63 legal compliance & monetary fines Reported environmental prosecutions Number none none none none Monetary value of significant fines due to non compliance SEKm 0 0 0 0 with environmental laws and regulations notes 1) C  ourier, taxi and security transportation is not included in emissions scope. Train and flight data is collected through our travel agency. Paper data is collected through invoices. Company car emissions data is compriced by type of car and actual or estimated annual driven distance. Energy data is collected via on-line reporting and invoices. We draw on guidance from the Greenhouse Gas Protocol for our carbon reporting. We currently account for the CO2 emissions from operations over which we have control, such as energy and electricity use in our own buildings, paper consumption and business travel (Scope 2 and 3). We include the emissions from Sweden, Norway, Finland, Denmark, Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Germany, United Kingdom, Luxembourg and Switzerland, accounting for more than 94 per cent of our income and 96 per cent of our employees. 2) Excluding leasing car mileage. 3) 2012 changed to EU definition of environmental certified cars. 4) Air travel is restated. Please find explanation of recalculations on page 31. SEB Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 55 auditor’s report Auditor’s Limited Assurance Report To the readers of the SEB CS Report and CS Fact Book Introduction in Sweden. The procedures performed consequently do We have been engaged by the management of Skandinanot enable us to obtain assurance that we would become viska Enskilda Banken AB (publ) (“SEB”) to undertake aware of all significant matters that might be identified in an examination of SEB’s Corporate Sustainability (CS) a reasonable assurance engagement. Accordingly, we do Report (“Sustainability Report”) for the year 2014. not express a reasonable assurance conclusion. Our procedures are based on the criteria defined by Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and Executhe Board of Directors and the Group Management as tive Management described above. We consider these criteria suitable for The Board of Directors and the Group Management are the preparation of the Sustainability Report. responsible for the preparation of the Sustainability We believe that the evidence we have obtained is Report in accordance with the applicable criteria, as sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our explained on page 42 in the Sustainability Report, and conclusion below. are the parts of the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (published by The Global Reporting Initiative, GRI) Conclusion which are applicable to the Sustainability Report, as Based on the limited assurance procedures we have well as the accounting and calculation principles that the performed, nothing has come to our attention that causes Company has developed. This responsibility includes the us to believe that the Sustainability Report is not prepared, internal control relevant to the preparation of a Sustainin all material respects, in accordance with the criteria ability Report that is free from material misstatements, defined by the Board of Directors and Group Management. whether due to fraud or error. Responsibilities of the auditor Stockholm, 4th March 2015 Our responsibility is to express a conclusion on the Sustainability Report based on the limited assurance PricewaterhouseCoopers AB procedures we have performed. We conducted our limited assurance engagement in accordance with RevR 6 Assurance of Sustainability Reports issued by FAR. A limited assurance engagement consists of making inquiries, primarily of persons responsible for Peter Nyllinge the preparation of the Sustainability Report, and applying Authorized Public Accountant analytical and other limited assurance procedures. The procedures performed in a limited assurance engagement vary in nature from, and are less in extent than for, a reasonable assurance engagement conducted in accordance with IAASB’s Standards on Auditing and Quality Fredrik Ljungdahl Control and other generally accepted auditing standards Expert member of FAR 56 SEB Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 Awards and recognitions 2014 Awarded by Customers Best bank for large corporates in Nordic region Prospera Best bank of the year, Sweden and Estonia Euromoney Best bank, in Sweden, Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania The Banker Best Private Bank in Sweden, Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania The Banker and Professional Wealth Mgmt Best Private Bank in Sweden Euromoney Best Internet Bank in Estonia and Latvia Global Finance Award Employees 2nd most attractive employer, Lithuania Verslo Žinios & CV L:T Sustainability Included in The Sustainability Yearbook 2014 RobecoSAM Global 100 Corporate Knights Sustainability indices Index provider OMX GES Sustainability Sweden Index Nasdaq OMX/GES OMX GES Sustainability Nordic Index Nasdaq OMX/GES FTSE4Good ECPI Indices FTSE ECPI Please STOXX Global ESG Leaders Indices Ethibel EXCELLENCE Investment Register STOXX Forum Ethibel recycle me! This report is associated with a carbon footprint of 21 g CO2-equivalents per m2 printed product, corresponding to 0.2 kg CO2-equivalents International commitments per report. The selected printing company is climate compensated UN Global Compact and has ISO14001 environmental Principles for Responsible Investments (PRI) certification. If you no longer have UN Environment Programme Finance Initiative (UNEP FI) use for this report, please recycle it. OECD guidelines for Multinational Enterprises Equator Principles United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) and CDP Water Disclosure ICC Business Charter on Sustainable Development Swedish Financial Coalition Against Commercial Sexual Exploitation of Children (national) The FSC logo identifies products which contain wood from wellmanaged forests certified in accordance with the rules of the Forest Stewardship Council. Contact us Cecilia Widebäck West Head of Group Corporate Sustainability © Copyright Skandinaviska Enskilda Banken AB, 2015. All rights reserved. Contact: Tel: +46 8 763 50 00, e-mail: cs@seb.se No part of this publication may be Internet: www.sebgroup.com/sustainability reproduced, stored in a retrieval system, or transmitted, in any Name and Head office Skandinaviska Enskilda Banken AB form or by any means, electronic, Postal Address: SE-106 40 Stockholm, Sweden mechanical, photocopying, recording, or otherwise, without Visiting address: Kungsträdgårdsgatan 8, Stockholm, Sweden the prior written permission of Corporate registration number: 502032-9081 Skandinaviska Enskilda Banken AB. Inside back cover II SEGR0084 2015.03 Production: SEB and Rewir Printing: Elanders Cover photo: Joachim Lundgren About SEB SEB is a leading Nordic financial services group. As a relationship bank strongly committed to deliver customer value, SEB in Sweden and the Baltic countries offers financial advice and a wide range of financial services. In Denmark, Finland, Norway and Germany the Bank’s operations have a strong focus on a full-service offering to corporate and institutional clients. SEB’s activities are carried out with a long-term perspective to fulfill the Bank’s role to assist businesses and markets to thrive. The international nature of SEB’s business is reflected in its presence in some 20 countries worldwide. SEB serves more than 4 million customers and has around 16,000 employees. Our responsibility We know that the way we act affects the world in which we operate. It is our responsibility to make sure that we do business in an ethical and sustainable way, attending to our customers’ needs and protecting people and the environment. By being a well-managed and profitable company, we can use our resources, time, money and knowledge of our people to contribute to society. This report presents our company from a sustainable perspective and covers our performance 2014 – how we govern and manage our business responsibly in order to create value for our stakeholders. Our actions span the spectrum from small details to complex questions on the global business agenda. Visit us: www.sebgroup.com/sustainability Contact us: cs@sebgroup.com
