HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES Principle 1 : Business should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2 : Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Russ Consulting Sdn Bhd highly respects universal human rights and freedom and therefore its business conduct and practice is done in a regard that adheres to United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) human rights’ principles. We believe in the concept of “people always come first” and as a service-centric company, the concept apply within our internal environment and also extended to other stakeholders such as our wide array of clientele, partners, suppliers and vendors. Every employee in Russ Consulting is unique and therefore the company view it as the company’s asset which we will treat each individual equally. Every employees is given equal rights opportunity during recruitment and as well as in employment. 1) Nationality, race, colour, religion and politics Every individual is given the opportunity to be a family member of Russ Consulting regardless of nationality, race, colour, religion and political beliefs. All decisions are reached on the sole basis of employee’s performance and reputation. No bias and prejudice is practiced whether it relates to the appointment, promotion, remuneration or dismissal. The company reviews its staff performance and remuneration based on merit every two years. As Malaysia is a multi-racial country, Russ treasures the culture and tradition richness and directly promotes 1Malaysia concept by celebrating all the main festivities. 1 2) Gender The company has a higher ratio of female workers compared to male workers as the Public Relations industry attracts a fair number of female employees. However, balance in the workplace is sustained as both genders are equally capable and competent in their profession. 3) Religious Tolerance i) Muslims All Muslim staff are allowed to be dressed in the Muslim attire and during fasting month (Ramadhan), they are given time-off to prepare for break fast (Iftar). ii) Christians and other religious beliefs Russ Consulting is a nurturing company where time-off is given to those who celebrate Good Friday and other related religious event. 4) Physical disabilities The company is not prejudicial towards people with physical disabilities. Staff are hired and retained based on their performance. In fact, Russ have previously hired a staff with Down syndrome ailment. 5) Workshops and trainings Russ practices the motto “Responsibility, Response and Reach”. As a dynamic company, we believe in the need to develop our staff’s skills and knowledge. Being an ever changing industry, public relations practitioners need to be well equipped with relevant and current “IT” skills and trends. Workshops and trainings provide knowledge input and exposure to employees and thus helping them to serve our clients better. 2 6) Annual leave The company grants staff a total of 8 days of paid annual leave for the employment period of less than 2 years; 12 days for 2 years or more but less than 5 years and 16 days for our staff who have been employed for 5 years as stipulated by the Malaysian Labour Law. Staff are also given rights to all national and state public holidays. The company believes strongly in the Code of Conduct and will carry out investigations if they have been violated in any manner. Implementation Russ employees are introduced to the Code of Conduct upon appointment in which each staff will be given a copy of the Employee’s Handbook for their reference. They are required to have a thorough read on the document and any inquiries and doubts shall be directed to be attended by the Administration Executive. Measurement and outcomes Russ Consulting Sdn Bhd has never been charged with any legal action pertaining to human rights violations or any of the principles as stipulated by the UN Global Compact. 3 LABOUR PRINCIPLES Principle 3 : Business should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Russ Consulting have a neutral standing on freedom of association and collective bargaining. Being a small company of less than 20 employees, Russ Consulting has a friendly and homeliness environment to it. We believe in personal touch and therefore promotes interaction inside and outside of the office set up. We practice an “open door” concept in which subordinates and superiors discuss operational and personal matters together and resolve them in mutual agreement. There are no unions and there have been no complaints against the company in this area. Measurement and outcomes The company will continue to monitor the progress of the matter. 4 Principle 4 : The elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labour; Russ Consulting does not employ or condone any form of forced or compulsory labour. Since the Public Relations industry matters on people, we highly believe in “people” values and therefore take into great care maintaining good relationships with all stakeholders and this also includes our employees as well. We have treated our employees with great attention and respect and will continue to do so in the future. Employees are sent for training and programmes to better equip them with relevant knowledge and skills thus providing opportunities for career development and enhancement. However, we are mindful that our company can become associated with forced labour through our business links with contractors and suppliers. We have to be more aware of the forms and causes of forced labour, as well as how it might occur in different industries. Measurement and outcomes The company will be more cautious about labour practices of our associates and make them aware of our own principles in this regard. Implementation Russ Consulting Sdn Bhd will constantly communicate with contractors and suppliers with regard on our stand against forced or compulsory labour. 5 Principle 5 : The effective abolition of child labour; and Our company believes that children are leaders of tomorrow and therefore we avoid any forms of involvement and engagement that may put children at danger and violate their rights. As stipulated by the Children and Young Persons (Employment) Act of Malaysia that prohibits the employment of children younger than the age of 14. In fact, it is an obvious practice and rule within our company that we do not hire anyone below the age of 17. However, we are mindful that our company can become assisted with child labour through our business links with contractors and suppliers. We have to be more aware of the forms and causes of child labour, as well as how it might occur in different industries. Measurement and outcomes We will communicate with suppliers, contractors and partners with regards to child labour policies and will constantly monitor them in this regard. 6 Principle 6 : The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Russ Consulting does not discriminate in respect of employment and occupation. We believe that conduciveness of the work place contributes to workers’ productivity level. Indirectly this means happy workers will ensure better work quality and this in some way will also contribute to business prosperity. At Russ Consulting Sdn Bhd, we are strongly against the malpractice of distinction, exclusion or preference made regardless of any grounds (nationality, race, religion, gender, personal connections, etc.). All employees are rewarded based on merits and performance. Implementation 1) Health Insurance All our employees receive social security benefits as stipulated by the Malaysian law. In addition, the company also purchases personal life insurance policies for each employee which covers hospital admission and medical tests. Payments are made based on monthly basis and the company covers half of the policies’ payment. 2) Employee’s Welfare The company takes into well consideration matters of employees’ well-being. Close rapport is established among employers and employees and this inculcates a strong sense of attachment and belonging toward the company within employees. To date, we have no incidents of violations of labour principles including that in the area of discrimination. There have been no complaints, investigations or any legal cases against Russ Consulting Sdn Bhd. 7 3) Free Lunch As Malaysia is starting applying GST, many employees in this country are affected due to the increase price of goods and services. This is where Russ Consulting Sdn Bhd playing its role to help our employees in saving the money by providing free lunch every weekdays. It is a good implementation where indirectly all staff are helping each other in preparing rice and dishes. It shows the sense of “family” in this company. 4) Work-life Balance Being a nurturing company with flexible working hours is a bonus for our staff to manage their life easily. Even though it is a mandate for our employees to work from 9.00 AM until 6.00 PM, there are flexibility for them to ask for a time-off to manage any personal matters provided they replace the time taken later. At Russ, we believe in tolerance where it is a key of work-life balance and way of creating harmonious as well as joyful working environment. 5) Friday Dress Down Looking forward for weekend break brings employees exciting mood since Friday. Russ implement Friday Dress Down where employees are allowed to wear something casual to the office. However, those who are required to go for a meeting should wear office attire to maintain corporate image. Measurement of outcomes The company will continue to review the current situation and note of any areas for improvement with regards to staff working conditions and morale. 8 ENVIRONMENT PRINCIPLES Principle 7 : Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8 : Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9 : Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Our company initially offers fifteen branches of Public Relations related services, namely: i. Public Relations ii. Event Management iii. Branding iv. Sponsorship Marketing v. Reputation Management vi. Crisis Communication vii. Stakeholder Engagement viii. Investor Relations ix. Corporate Responsibility x. Media Profiling xi. Website Content Management xii. Training/ Mentoring/ Coaching xiii. Public Affairs/ Lobbying xiv. Corporate Publications xv. Green Initiative 9 Russ is now approaching towards green and establish green initiative to serve the public about the awareness of green environment through applying renewable energy and energy efficiency. To manifest our support towards green earth, we have partnered up with a German company to encourage the development of renewable energy in Malaysia in which we provide solar PV (photovoltaic) system, engineering, procurement and construction services. Russ also involves in green cooling consultancy where green cooling helps to protect the environment, resources and the climate and supports the use of renewable technologies within cooling. Besides, it maximized energy efficiency that is using natural refrigerants and minimizing its environmental impact. This initiatives will help to educate society to live in healthy and green environment. 10 ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLE Principle 10 : Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery Russ Consulting Sdn Bhd stands firm against any practices relating to corruption. As a service provider, we work closely with clients, suppliers and vendors. We constantly check and monitor the ins and outs of our employees to avoid any suspicious monetary transactions taking place whether inside or outside of the office. Implementation We internally check and monitor all of our business transactions. Our records are maintained with proper supporting documents and filed accordingly to ease reference. Measurement of outcomes To date, there has been no reports of corruption within Russ Consulting Sdn Bhd. Our accounts are audited yearly by an external auditor (Sam and Co). Audits are one of the corruption and bribery preventive methods. The external consultant reports directly to the CEO and CFO. 11
