Sustainability Report 2013 2 Global Sustain Sustainability Report 2013 Table of Contents A. Message from the Managing Partner 4 B. About this Report 5 1. Scope and Boundary 5 2. Development 5 3. Restrictions 6 4. Give us your feedback 6 C. Introduction 7 1. Company Profile 7 i. Global Sustain at a Glance 7 ii. Vision 8 iii. Mission 8 iv. Values 8 2. Services 9 D. Strategy and Management 15 1. Defining Sustainability 16 2. Sustainability Pillars and Framework 16 3. Corporate Governance and Compliance 16 4. Stakeholder Engagement 19 5. Memberships / Partnerships 23 E. Marketplace 25 1. Financial Contribution 26 2. Social Contribution 27 3. Responsible Operation 28 4. Giving to and Supporting Charities 30 5. Responsible Procurement 31 6. Public Awareness 31 7. Client Service Satisfaction 32 F. Human Resources 37 1. Workforce 38 2. Fair Employment 38 3. Health and Safety 39 4. Employee Development 39 i. Training 39 ii. Appraisal System 39 5. Internal Communication 40 G. Society 41 1. Social Services 42 2. Giving back to Society 42 3. Volunteering 44 3 Global Sustain Sustainability Report 2013 H. Environment 46 1. Strategy and Management 47 i. Environmental Policy 47 2. Measures and Initiatives for Reducing our Environmental Impact 47 i. Raw Materials and Waste Management 47 3. Measuring and Reporting our Environmental Impact 48 i. Recycling 48 ii. Greenhouse Gases and other Gases Emissions 48 iii. Energy & Water Consumption 49 iv. Transportation 50 v. Biodiversity 50 vi. Design and Development of Services that contribute to Climate Change Mitigation 50 United Nations Global Compact table 51 G3.1 Content Index 51 Independent Assurance Statement 65 GRI Application Level Check 68 Abbreviations 70 Feedback Form 71 4 Global Sustain Sustainability Report 2013 A. Message from the Managing Partner Dear Members and Stakeholders, We are proud to present Global Sustain Sustainability Report 2013, in line with the company’s vision and engagement to sustainability and transparency. Despite the challenging economic environment, Global Sustain firmly believes that corporate responsibility and sustainability should be the central focus of all companies and investors, regardless of the size, sector and/or location in which they operate. Sustainability reporting is an integral and crucial part of our business strategy, our operations and values. In 2013, there was a significant change in our organisation. Under the name Global Sustain we inaugurated a new corporate era, improved our financial performance and enhanced our global presence (Brussels and Melbourne), with respect to international standards that guarantee our responsible long-term development. We grew the portfolio of our services (we introduced advisory services) as well as our members’ base (more than 150 new members) and at the same time we continued to operate in a sustainable manner. Sustainability remains an indispensable part of our strategic planning as we keep on addressing social, economic and environmental issues in our long-term operations, by undertaking responsible initiatives on:  The provision of high-quality services to our clients and members,  The company’s growth with the support of our employees, members and other stakeholders,  The management and offset of our carbon footprint, and  The social contribution. Our turnover increased slightly year-on-year, so did the EBITDA, partially meeting last years’ targets (Turnover: 17% actual vs. 30% projected, EBITDA : 89,84%). The company is still debt free since its establishment, with no third-party funding or other subsidy whatsoever. In 2013, we offered innovative on-line and off-line services to more than 500 members and clients from the corporate, financial, public, third and academic sectors, and achieved most of the goals we had set the previous year, specifically in marketplace, workforce and environment sectors. We still have some work to do in raising awareness to our supply chain with regard to how Global Sustain sources products and services from its suppliers, so we stick to the commitment for the following reporting period. In 2014, we will continue our program focusing on environment, society, workforce and services, since the company is highly linked with People-Planet-Profit mentality that we endorse. For another year, we follow international reporting guidelines according to the GRIG3.1 standard and a third party assurance for this report. Next year’s report will be a landmark as far as the reporting procedure is concerned, as we plan to adopt the new GRI G4 reporting guidelines. The journey towards sustainability is never-ending. We seek to grow with a solid sense of responsibility and become an innovator and a catalyst for change. In the following years, we will continue to operate with a clear vision in line with the people-planet-profit concept, as a role model for newgeneration entrepreneurs globally. Michael Spanos Managing Partner 5 Global Sustain Sustainability Report 2013 B. About this Report 1. Scope and Boundary were prioritised based on the impact they have on our company and its Global Sustain submitted its first stakeholders. This Report describes Global Communication on Progress, the most Sustain activities in relation to its services important expression of our commitment offered in Greece and it does not include to the UN Global Compact and its Ten information on its representation offices Principles, in September 2012, for the in Brussels and Melbourne. reference year 2011. COP represented the company’s inaugural public 2. Development communication to our stakeholders on the progress made in implementing the Since this is the second Report published, Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact Global Sustain special Sustainability Team and in supporting the broader UN ensured that all the reporting requirements are met. What is more, a development goals through our partnerships. The COP was followed by special sustainability training program was the first Global Sustain Sustainability implemented to help employees deal with all the data and information presented in Report for the reference year 2012, according to the Global Reporting this Report that stem from its activities. Initiative (GRI) international guidelines The content of this Report was formed (GRI-G3.1). The Report was checked by based on the company’s best practices GRI, rated at application level C+ and and general sustainability pillars (marketplace, human resources, received external assurance. environment, and society). Best practices This Sustainability Report represents the relate to the day-to-day operation of the management practices and the results of company. Global Sustain provides our actions for the financial year during services, with zero hazardous impact to January 1, 2013 December 31, 2013 and the environment and to the society. again we employ the GRI guidelines to Economic performance and member ensure that our results are reported satisfaction are material to Global Sustain, objectively and transparently. The content as a member driven company. Moreover, of this year’s report has been checked by materiality was defined by management GRI, rated at GRI application level C+, priorities and the stakeholders who took receiving external assurance as well. part in a special survey. According to the survey results: 96% of members (primary Our intent in issuing this Report is to stakeholders) believe that Global Sustain depict the impact of our business activity is more related to Corporate Social on the Economy, Environment and Society Responsibility, than to Society (80%) and and to enrich the dialogue within and to Environment (74%). around our company. We do so in the hope that this dialogue will help us expand our understanding of such issues and encourage us to “Be responsible in everything we do.” The topics collected 3. Restrictions 6 Global Sustain Sustainability Report 2013 As there is available data from Global Sustain previous report, there are some references to targets or achievements made during the reference year. The whole Report was submitted for external assurance to an independent assurance provider. You are kindly asked to submit your views, 4. Give us your Feedback comments and recommendations to: Global Sustain primary target audiences Mrs. Ilektra Liberopoulou, 2, K. Palama of this Report are our employees, our Street & 161, Vouliagmenis Avenue GRshareholders, our members, our clients 172 37 Dafni, Athens, Greece and our stakeholders who have a Tel.: (+30) 210 927 1110 particular interest in our company and our services. We hope that you will have the Fax: (+30) 210 927 1119 time to review this Report, learn more about us and offer your feedback and E-mail: ideas as we move forward. ilektra.liberopoulou@globalsustain.org. 7 Global Sustain Sustainability Report 2013 C. Introduction 1. Company Profile i. Global Sustain at a glance Global Sustain L.P., headquartered in Established in 2006 with offices in Athens, Greece, is a privately-held firm, Athens, Brussels and Melbourne which owns and operates the climateand a rapidly-expanding family of neutral popular portal, members, clients, partners and www.globalsustain.org. This content-rich ambassadors. portal effectively communicates CSR and Acts as a reference point for sustainability news, reports, events and sustainability. information on behalf of members and A unique social entrepreneurship clients, with a global audience. Global model in Europe, a values-based, Sustain offers innovative on-line and offindependent firm and catalyst for line services to 566 members and clients change. from the corporate, financial, public, third Facilitates synergies among and academic sectors, facilitating members and key stakeholders. synergies among members and other key Effectively communicates CSR and stakeholders. sustainability news, reports, events and information on behalf It also participates in, presents at and coof members and clients. organises numerous conferences and UN Global Compact signatory; events, including the Sustainability Forum, founding member of the Global a training, networking and professional Compact Network Hellas since development event. 2008; member of the Global Global Sustain has been publishing an Compact Network Belgium. annual edition since 2007, entitled Member and partner of CSRwire. “Yearbook”, with the scope of creating a Collaborates with numerous other platform for public policy, corporate, leading organisations, including citizen-sector, and other leaders as well as Ethical Performance and Ethical scientists and experts to share their views Corporation. on each year’s theme, while at the same Data Partner for the Global time offering a “communication vehicle” Reporting Initiative and GRI for pioneering corporations to showcase Organisational Stakeholder (OS). their own initiatives and sustainability Affiliate member of ABIS actions. Academy of Business in Society (Belgium). Global Sustain is a company with five fullAnnually funds not-for-profit time staff, and its turnover in 2013 projects making an impact amounted to EUR 223,006.70 Co-organises numerous (approximately USD 300,000). In Greece, conferences and events, including Global Sustain has major operations the Sustainability Forum, a related to sustainability. training, networking and professional development event 8 Global Sustain Sustainability Report 2013 Operates as a 100% carbon neutral firm. Has published 7 Yearbooks to date. Memberships / Partnerships ii. Vision Our values define who we are and guide the way we think, act and do A sustainable world, where business. organisations embrace responsibility and respect for human and natural At Global Sustain, we: capital, in their quest for growth. Do not view our employees iii. Mission as “assets” or “workers”, but rather as pro-active To create awareness, inspire and ambassadors who are support companies and organisations passionate about our mission. in sustainability, through advisory, We encourage our communications, networking and ambassadors to be change training, guided by the people-planetmakers and go-getters, and profit concept. be passionately part of Global iv. Values Sustain mission; 9 Global Sustain Sustainability Report 2013 Strongly believe in organisational transparency, encouraging synergies and and accountability, both facilitating strategic internally (to one another, to partnerships among Global our ambassadors) and to our Sustain members and our key external stakeholders, stakeholders; including our members. Believe that making the world a better place starts –first and 2. Services foremost– from ourselves, Global Sustain offers innovative on-line our ambassadors and our and off-line services to its members and stakeholders, and are clients from the corporate, financial, therefore active citizens in public, academic and citizen sectors, our personal and professional including advisory, communications, lives. We encourage our networking and training services. Markets members to not just be good, served are Greece, Belgium and Australia. but also pro-active corporate Our customers are divided in two major and individual citizens; groups: companies and NGOs. Companies Strongly believe that cover economic sectors such as telecoms, corporate responsibility, communication, banking, services, retail, responsible investing, green pharma, insurance, industry and energy. economy and sustainability Customers enjoy the following services, in should be the central focus of reference to their membership all companies and investors, subscription (silver, gold, platinum). regardless of size, industry sector or location in which Advisory they operate; Global Sustain supports companies and Participate in our members’ organisations in formulating their voluntary activities, projects sustainability strategy, designing and events; sustainability policies and programs, Are dedicated to remain a preparing reports, conducting research, 100% climate neutral and participating in sustainability indexes, as zero-waste company. This well as networking with pioneering commitment refers to both organisations and institutions. our operations (e.g., office, logistics, staff movements) On-line services and products/services (e.g., Web portals, exhibitions, In order to ensure effective events, Yearbooks); communication of its members, Global Donate a percentage of our Sustain owns and daily updates the corporate annual pre-tax popular portal www.globalsustain.org, earnings to help fund hosting articles, press releases, news, innovative, not-for-profit sustainability reports, interviews and projects that make an impact; research. Members have their own Strongly adhere to ethical decision-making, 10 Global Sustain Sustainability Report 2013 dedicated microsite and can utilise communicate its members’ sustainability marketing and communication tools such efforts and provide opportunities for as videos, podcasts, banners, mail shots networking. Via its social media presence and social media to raise awareness of (Facebook, LinkedIn, Twitter, YouTube), their sustainability strategy, policies, Global Sustain facilitates a constant and reports and programs. This information is constructive dialogue among its also distributed through a partnership stakeholders, through daily news uploads, network comprised of multiple leading innovative applications, and at the same organisations within the sustainability and time undertakes projects for developing corporate responsibility sector. and managing social media pages. Newsletter Members-to-Members Committed to timely inform stakeholders Global Sustain offers extensive on sustainability issues, Global Sustain networking among its members through publishes an electronic newsletter its Members-to-Members (M2M) service. highlighting the latest news, trends, research and events on sustainability. The On-line M2M newsletter includes the latest This service allows corporate members to developments, press releases, interviews, communicate new, innovative and viewpoints, announcements, sustainable services and products, presentations, videos, podcasts, and other collaborative synergies or mutually information of Global Sustain corporate beneficial projects to a targeted audience and non-corporate members. The through the portal. We disseminate newsletter is distributed to 16,000+ “optinformation and initiate networking using in” subscribers, including CEOs and senior a combination of our website and direct managers, business leaders, consumers, email alerts to selected members and local and public authorities, academic stakeholders in our sustainability institutions, journalists, opinion formers, database. decision makers and non-governmental organisations. This informative newsletter M2M meetings is not only a trusted source of market In M2M meetings, members can present intelligence, but also offers Global Sustain their products, services, strategy and best members a valuable tool to effectively practices related to sustainability to other reach out to their stakeholders. In 2013 Global Sustain members. These meetings Global Sustain published 38 newsletters create excellent networking (19 Greek, 19 English). opportunities, encourage and inspire New media services members and exchange best practices. In 2013, the company organised three M2M Global Sustain offers new and cuttingmeetings ( KPMG, Halyps Cement, ALBA edge digital services aiming at effectively Graduate Business School) . 11 Global Sustain Sustainability Report 2013 Corporate Members (as of Dec.31, 2013) AKbros Alfa-Beta Vassilopoulos Alpha Bank Asset Ogilvy Public Relations Athenian Brewery Attica Bank Attiki Odos Boehringer Ingelheim Bondex Couriers Bicycle Messenger Service Boussias Communications Cartridge World Citibank Coca-Cola CSRwire Deloitte DEPA DigiΜagix Direction Business Network Dixons South-East Europe Ethical Performance European Reliance General Insurance Company EY (Ernst & Young) Genesis Pharma Green Evolution Greenmind Advertising Hazlis & Rivas Co. Hellenic Electricity Distribution Network Operator (HEDNO) Hellenic Petroleum OTE Group Hellenic Water Company (EYDAP) Hygeia Group ICAP Group Impressme Creative Communication INTERAMERICAN Hellenic Life Insurance Company Italcementi Group / Halyps Cement Japan International Tobacco KERDOS KLM Royal Dutch Airlines KPMG MCK WATEC Microsoft Hellas Mourgelas & Associates MSCOMM Mytilineos Holdings Piraeus Bank PressiousArvanitidis Public Power Corporation S&B Industrial Minerals SARGIA Partners SCA Hygiene Products 12 Global Sustain Sustainability Report 2013 Schneider Electric SECURICON Think Plus TRIM Publications Tritoxo Project Management TÜV Austria Hellas TÜV Hellas (TÜV NORD) Valuation & Research Specialists Vodafone WIND NGO Premium Members AIESEC NKUA BioRegional Development Group CEO Clubs Children's Home Foundation ELEPAP-Rehabilitation for The Disabled European Sustainability Academy (ESA) Greek Horse Protection Association Hellenic Passive House Institute (HE.P.H.IN.) Hellenic Society for the Protection of Nature Industry Disruptors Game Changers (ID-GC) K.E.E.P.E.A. 'Orizontes' KETHEA 'SCHEMA + CHROMA' Life Line Hellas Lighthouse for the Blind Municipal Waste Europe Pediatric Trauma Care (PTC) Promitheas A.M.K.E. Psychogeriatric Association 'Nestor' Social Cooperative Activities for Minority Groups 'EDRA' Stichting Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) The Smile of the Child To Ergastiri Together for Children Society Premium Members ABIS The Academy of Business in Society ALBA Graduate Business School at The American College of Greece American-Hellenic Chamber of Commerce Benaki Museum British Council Global Compact Network Belgium vzw Greek Association of Environmental Protection Companies (PASEPPE) 13 Global Sustain Sustainability Report 2013 MBA International (AUEB) Municipality of Agios Dimitrios National Library of Greece Conferences-Exhibitions-Events Global Sustain organises, co-organises, pro-actively supports and participates in, local and international conferences, exhibitions and events, in order to effectively communicate its members’ sustainability policies and programs and deliver market intelligence and know-how to its members on a number of important issues related to sustainability. Services include: NGO annual funding Targeted networking with executives, companies, At the end of each fiscal year, as part of organisations and other entities our corporate responsibility policy, Global Preparation and dissemination of Sustain finances non-profit projects feedback reports on international carried out by non-corporate members, events with the aim of funding specific social, Complimentary invitations and environmental or other needs in the discounts for members citizen sector. Distribution of members’ corporate material To date, 16 charitable projects have been Extensive and regular update on financed, through an electronic voting events procedure and the opinion of an NGO Project Funding Committee. This policy is Sustainability Forum part of the company’s values and aims at promoting and supporting the work of its Every year, Global Sustain organises the NGO members with social and Sustainability Forum A training, environmental impact. networking and professional development event. The Forum provides hands-on Yearbook experience and practical knowledge through specialised workshops and brings Yearbook series aim at highlighting critical together prominent speakers and top sustainability issues and constitute a sustainability experts from all around the catalyst for constructive dialogue and world (www.sustainabilityforum.gr). In positive change. This annual global 2013, Sustainability Forum took place on publication is trusted by top companies October 4, at the ALBA Graduate Business and important stakeholders from all School. around the world. 14 Global Sustain Sustainability Report 2013 Each year, Global Sustain choses a topic of products and services in the sustainability universal interest relevant to the peoplefield. planet-profit concept and analyses all the aspects, through the views of The hard copy publication is presented internationally renowned personalities, every year in special events and venues, business leaders, politicians, visionaries with high level participants and is and academia. distributed to more than 50 countries. In 2013, Global Sustain published the 6th Industry opinion formers and decision Yearbook, entitled “Innovation for makers across the world contribute with Excellence”. policy and business intelligence to the publication, while leading corporations showcase their best practices and flagship 15 Global Sustain Sustainability Report 2013 D. Strategy and Management 16 Global Sustain Sustainability Report 2013 1. Defining Sustainability “Planet” (the natural capital) refers to sustainable As a company, we are part of society and environmental practices that we implement our economic, social and we adopt and advocate to environmental responsibility in all spheres our stakeholders. of our influence. Sustainability is central “Profit” (the economic to Global Sustain core values. Our whole capital) refers to the business is conducted in an ethical and economic value created by responsible way. our company. This also refers We maintain a strong sustainability policy to our corporate earnings and for the future, through investing in a capital savings for growth, as number of initiatives such as: well as the real economic benefit enjoyed by the striving for sound financial society and the real economic performance and growth, impact our company has on ensuring a safe and secure its economic environment. work environment for our employees, 2. Sustainability Pillars and Framework operating as a 100% climate The main pillars of sustainability for our neutral, zero-waste company, company were determined through a setting an example for others process which combined both internal to follow, analysis and dialogue with our limiting our transportation by stakeholders through an annual increasing the number of stakeholder engagement survey teleconferences for conducted. immediate communication with customers and zero These are: environmental impact, supporting the communities Marketplace Human Resources in which we do business. Society The triple bottom line approach Environment (People-Planet-Profit), also known as the three pillars of sustainability, defines the way we do business and 1. Corporate Governance and our relations with our stakeholders. Compliance That is: Corporate governance is the set of “People” (the human capital) processes, customs, policies, laws and refers to beneficial business institutions affecting the way the company is directed, administered and/or practices towards labour, the community and region in controlled. Global Sustain stakeholders which we conduct our among others include its partners, business. employees, associates, affiliates, members, suppliers, customers, banks, 17 Global Sustain Sustainability Report 2013 regulators, public authorities, the media governance responsibilities and serve as a and the community at large. flexible framework within which the top management may conduct its business. We strive for excellence in our products These corporate governance practices are and services and in the way we do not intended to change or interpret any business throughout all our operations law or regulation and are subject to and this process commences with our modification by the top management. partners, the management team, all our employees as well as our associates. The Partners’ Assembly is the top-level decision-making body of Global Sustain We try hard to achieve the highest and oversees the activity of the company, standards and we promote this rigorously as defined by the Articles of throughout the company. Incorporation. The Partners’ Assembly This applies equally to transparency in consists of all individual and legal entities reporting and meeting the expectations of that have a legitimate shareholder stakeholders regardless of whether this interest in Global Sustain. The Partners’ relates to accounting procedures, our Assembly is responsible for the overall products and services standards, ethics in strategy of Global Sustain and sets the all our dealings with members, clients, cocorporate objectives and management workers and the public, or behaving in a goals of the firm. In addition to business safe and environmentally responsible and financial issues, the Partners’ manner. Assembly deals with challenges and issues related to corporate governance, Solid principles of corporate governance corporate responsibility, ethics and are key to maintaining the trust of sustainability. stakeholders. Global Sustain has adopted corporate governance practices to Certain executive authority is delegated promote and safeguard the effective by the Partners’ Assembly to the functioning and operation of the Managing Partner of Global Sustain, who company. is a member of the Partners’ Assembly and has the responsibility of the day-toThis reflects the top management’s strong day operational management of the firm, commitment to sound corporate making sure that business and governance and encourages effective sustainability targets are met in policy and decision making across the accordance to corporate policy. The company as well as appropriate Managing Partner, who acts as the chief monitoring of both compliance and executive officer (CEO) is also responsible performance. for monitoring the company’s code of conduct, is the legal representative of These practices are intended to assist top Global Sustain and acts as a spokesperson management in the exercise of its on behalf of the firm. 18 Global Sustain Sustainability Report 2013 Figure1: Organisational chart Corporate Governance Practices: of Conduct support Global Sustain values of excellent service, integrity, 1. Occupational Safety and Health accountability, equality, collaboration Occupational safety and health can be and learning that are expected of all important for moral, legal, and staff and associates. financial reasons. Global Sustain has a 3. Environmental Policy duty to ensure that employees and any other person who may be Global Sustain is committed to affected by the company operating as a 100% carbon neutral undertakings remain safe at all times. company through a detailed Global Sustain has in place a environmental policy. We measure, comprehensive occupational safety manage and offset all carbon and health policy known and emissions on an annual basis. efficiently communicated to all staff Furthermore, Global Sustain has in and associates. place a comprehensive recycling policy followed by all staff, associates 2. Code of Conduct and the respective suppliers. Global Sustain commits to 4. United Nations Global Compact encouraging a safe, supportive and Signatory productive work environment. This can only happen when everyone The UN Global Compact is a strategic cooperates and agrees to suitable policy initiative for businesses that are standards of professional conduct. committed to aligning their The standards endorsed in the Code operations and strategies with ten 19 Global Sustain Sustainability Report 2013 universally accepted principles in the business strategy, operations and values. areas of human rights, labour, As a result, we try to build an open and environment and anti-corruption. honest dialogue with our stakeholders Global Sustain is a signatory to the ten and we are continually trying to advance principles and has adopted the the information we share with them. transparency and accountability policy known as the Communication This is why we have developed a Code of Conduct which is communicated to all our on Progress (COP), as a demonstration of its commitment to employees and clearly states the the UN Global Compact and its principles on which our relationship with principles. Global Sustain is also a our stakeholders is based on. member of the UN Global Compact Stakeholder Mapping Networks in Greece and Belgium and its Managing Partner is a Member of Our stakeholders are divided in two the Secretariat of the Global Compact categories, primary and secondary Network Hellas. stakeholders. Primary stakeholders have direct impact on organisation’s activities 4. Stakeholder Engagement while secondary stakeholders are involved For our company, sustainability does not indirectly in organisation’s activities, constitute an individual activity. On the although they are always informed. The contrary, we treat sustainability as an company, choses to engage with integral and important part of our stakeholders that have an impact to its operations. Primary Stakeholders Relation Communication Expectations Employees • They offer services • Immediate • Recognition communication with through evaluation Regular • They get fair administration remuneration • Hygiene and safety Contractors • Regular meetings in workplace Associates • Training opportunities Interns • Information regarding business plans Members • They choose Global • Websites • Innovative services Sustain for effective Companies communication and • Fortnightly • Reliability promotion of newsletter NGOs • Flexibility sustainability • Regular meetings activities and actions with administration • Value for money • Networking • Interviews and • Readiness opportunities 20 Global Sustain Sustainability Report 2013 • They have access articles to information and help desk • Participation in Global Sustain or • Training other events opportunities • They offer services • Websites • Reliability and products Suppliers • Fortnightly • Integrity • They support Global newsletter Members Sustain actions and events • Regular meetings Partners with administration • Participation in Global Sustain or other events Secondary Stakeholders Relation Communication Expectations Community • Global Sustain is a • Websites • Innovative services social venture NGOs • Fortnightly • Exposure of charity • Collaborates with newsletter work Unions over 300 NGOs • Participation in • Information Responsible citizens • Finances charitable NGOs actions regarding social and projects carried out environmental Consumers • NGOs Participation by its NGO members problems in Global Sustain Social Media users events • Support Academia • Annual NGO • Networking with funding companies Networks • Global Sustain is a • Websites • Credibility UN Global Compact National and signatory, founding • Fortnightly • Exposure international networks member of the newsletter • Network expansion Global Compact Chambers • Support and Network Hellas and participation in • Valuable alliances member of UN Global Global Sustain ’s Compact Network events Belgium • Global Sustain • Is a Data Partner for participation in local the Global Reporting and global events Initiative and GRI Organisational Stakeholder (OS) • Collaborates with 21 Global Sustain Sustainability Report 2013 other leading organisations Market • Tracking customers’ • Websites • Reliability and potential Companies non members’ needs • Fortnightly • Innovative services members newsletter • Offering appealing • Flexibility NGOs non members services • Meetings Consumers • Participation in Global Sustain events Social Media users • Global Sustain participation in events Media • They support Global • Websites • Continuous Sustain actions and information Newspapers events • Fortnightly (especially business newsletter • In to the point and environmental) • They communicate interviews and its work • Meetings articles TV networks • Participation in • Credibility Sites Global Sustain events Magazines of special • Press releases interest • Media inquiry Radio • Press kit • Articles and interviews Authorities • They set the • Meetings with • Reliability operational public agencies Legislators framework • Integrity • Participation in Regulators • They receive taxes events of special • Compliance and social products interest Government that ensue from its agencies operation Global Sustain systematically conducts engagement provides a method for surveys focused on our stakeholders’ identifying public concerns and values, opinions and expectations. The developing consensus among affected identification and selection of parties, and producing efficient and stakeholders is possible through internal effective solutions through an open, meetings. Stakeholder engagement is inclusive process. more than just holding a public hearing or seeking public comment on something As far as the profile of our stakeholders is new launched. Effective stakeholder concerned, 57% of them are women, they 22 Global Sustain Sustainability Report 2013 are between 35-54 years old and 58% is of highest education level (master). Some of the latest survey findings that was conducted by our partner, Global Link are: 91% of respondents deem the communication with company’s executives satisfactory. 65% of respondents consider that Global Sustain fulfills their expectations at a very high level 92% consider that Global Sustain enjoys a good level of credibility and effectiveness. 23 Global Sustain Sustainability Report 2013 Evaluation of Global Sustain partnerships with international institutions and networks, by its stakeholders Excellent Very good Good Fair Indifferent GRI (Data Partner & 27 35 30 2 7 Organisational Stakeholder) Global Compact (Member) 13 48 20 3 15 CSRwire (Μember & Partner) 13 42 32 2 12 Ethical Performance (Partner) 8 47 25 3 17 The Academy of Business in 10 40 32 2 17 Society (Member) The respective Net Promoter Score (NPS) Index has been calculated at 27 and according to this methodology, 42% of respondents could act as ambassadors of Global Sustain. 5. Memberships / Partnerships Global Sustain is: Global Compact Network Belgium. A Data Partner for the Global A signatory to the the UNReporting Initiative and GRI supported Principles for Organisational Stakeholder Responsible Investment. (OS). A member of the Hellenic A UN Global Compact Network for Corporate Social signatory and founding Responsibility. member of the Global An affiliate member of ABIS Compact Network Hellas The Academy of Business in since 2008 and a member of Society. A member of the AmericanA member of the Greek Hellenic Chamber of Association of Environmental Commerce. Protection Companies. 24 Global Sustain Sustainability Report 2013 A member and partner of Collaborates with numerous CSRwire, Inc., U.S.A., The other leading organisations, Corporate Social including Ethical Responsibility Newswire and Performance, Ethical finally, Corporation, U.K. 25 Global Sustain Sustainability Report 2013 E. Marketplace 26 Global Sustain Sustainability Report 2013 1. Financial Contribution At Global Sustain, we use our values to communities in which we operate. In our build financial success, environmental for the second Sustainability Report, we excellence, and social responsibility in present financial data to inform our partnership with all stakeholders, despite stakeholders about the 2013 fiscal year the challenging economic environment. and the last three years. Global Sustain Global challenges, such as climate change increased its turnover by 17.09%, from and financial and social disruptions create EUR 190,464.17 in 2012, to EUR 223,006.7 both risks and opportunities for the in 2013. EBITDA was EUR 45,730.22 in company’s business. We develop our 2013, 82% higher compared to 2012. In business and at the same time offer the same year, EBIT increased to EUR benefits to our shareholders, employees 45,652.58 and there were no investments customers, suppliers, and the and debt. Financial sustainability 2011 2012 2013 Turnover 187,640.7 190,464.17 223,006.70 EBITDA 54,918.11 25,126.08 45,730.22 EBIT 48,148.68 24,088.88 45,652.58 Investments 6,769.51 1,037.46 77,65 Debt 0 0 0 Our Target for 2014 The 2013 target for turnover was partially met (17% actual vs. 30% projected). Targets for 2014 include turnover to increase by another 30%. We aim to continue improving our financial results, strengthen our capital base and grow our business responsibly by expanding in new global markets and launching new and innovative services. 27 Global Sustain Sustainability Report 2013 2. Social Contribution regulations in the markets where we operate. Global Sustain is committed to acting with integrity and transparency in all tax In 2013, Global Sustain paid EUR matters as part of our corporate 12,494.68 for income taxes, EUR accountability. We aim to provide 33,722.00 for Value Added Tax and EUR transparent and accessible 2,635.23 for duties, fees and communication and enable others to be commissions. Social security contributions familiar with our tax obligations. amounted to EUR 16,519.20. The company also paid EUR 40,106.80 in We strongly believe that our obligation is salaries, compensation and other to pay the amount of tax legally due and benefits, for the same fiscal year. to comply with all applicable rules and Direct Economic Value Generated 2011 2012 2013 Turnover 187,640.70 190,464.17 223,006.70 Economic Value Distributed 2011 2012 2013 Operating Costs 27,771.82 22,367.46 30,993.75 IncomeTaxes Paid 5,043.91 2,763.00 12,494.68 Value added Tax 29,417.26 27,869.23 33,722.00 Duties, fees & commissions 2,050.47 3,669.89 2,635.23 Social security contribution 14,721.51 22,026.11 16,519.20 Salaries, compensation and benefits 33,069.56 49,627.34 40,106.80 Direct economic contribution to NGOs (in 3,500.00 1,000.00 1,500.00 EUR) Debt 0 0 0 Economic Value Retained 72,066.17 61,141.14 85,035.04 Our Target for 2014 We will continue to act with integrity and transparency in tax matters according state law, we will continue providing an attractive and remunerating place to work and creating value for as many stakeholders as possible. 28 Global Sustain Sustainability Report 2013 3. Responsible Operation practices, and procedures offer equal employment opportunities to its The values and success of Global Sustain employees. In 2013, the gender are closely tied to the question of employment ratio was 40% for males and whether the environmental, social and 60% for females and the average age of corporate governance considerations are the company’s personnel was 27 years. In integrated into its corporate management the reference year, Global Sustain and operations. In 2013, we offered received zero administrative or other innovative on-line and off-line services to fines and penalties. 566 members and clients from the corporate, financial, public, third and Our Target for 2014 academic sectors; 60 (2013) of them were corporate members, 33 were “NGO and We will continue to offer innovative onSociety Premium” members and 473 were line and off-line services to all our “NGO Free” members of the Global members as well as equal opportunities to Sustain Network. Global Sustain policies, all Global Sustain employees. 29 Global Sustain Sustainability Report 2013 Responsible Operations 2011 2012 2013 Total number of members 351 365 566 Corporate members 51 46 60 NGO & Society Premium members 40 27 33 NGO Free members 260 292 473 Gender (fale vs. female) employment ratio M: 75% F: 25% M: 60% F: 40% M: 40% F: 60% Average age of personnel (in years) 33 33 27 Total number of employees 4 Full time 0 Part 5 Full time 0 Part 3 Full time 0 Part time time time Full time: 1M-2F Full time: 3M-1 F Full time: 3M-2F Part time: 0 Part time: 0 Part time: 0 Permanent: 4 Permanent: 5 Permanent: 3 Temporary: 0 Temporary: 0 Temporary: 2 CO2 Off-setting CO2 Off-setting 100% 100% started on September 2011 Total number of incidents of discrimination and 0 0 0 actions taken Number of grievances related to human rights filed, 0 0 0 addressed and resolved Number of complaints regarding breaches of 0 0 0 customer privacy and losses of customer data Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive 0 0 0 behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes Incidents of corruption and actions taken 0 0 0 Number of labour accidents 0 0 0 Lay offs 0 0 0 Hirings 1 0 0 Number of appeals/litigation cases 0 0 0 Administrative and other fines and penalties 0 0 0 30 Global Sustain Sustainability Report 2013 4. Giving to and Supporting Charities man days, significantly higher than the previous year. Global Sustain volunteering In 2013, Global Sustain financed two NGO activities included supporting the causes projects (EUR 1,500). Since its of NGOs through fundraising running establishment in 2006, the company has races like the Athens Classic Marathon been donating part of its profits to a and Susan G. Komen Race for the Cure, number of not-for-profit projects carried engaging in environmental uplifting of out by Global Sustain NGO members, with parks, addressing MBA students and the aim of supporting specific social, members’ executives about CSR and environmental or other needs in Greece’s sustainability issues. citizen sector. In the reference year, Global Sustain has participated in treeOur Target for 2014 planting efforts and gatherings, in close collaboration with local organisations and We will stay committed to our annual members. Volunteering work counts for 8 NGO funding policy and we will increase our volunteering work. Giving to and supporting Charities 2011 2012 2013 Direct economic contribution to 3,500.00 1,000.00 1,500.00 NGOs (EUR) NGOs beneficiaries 2 2 2 Volunteering work (in days) 2 3 8 31 Global Sustain Sustainability Report 2013 5. Responsible Procurement Global Sustain views it’s corporate and Our Target for 2014 NGO partners as pro-active ambassadors who are passionate about its mission. We Global Sustain will ask all its suppliers to strongly believe in encouraging synergies provide the firm with details as to which and facilitating strategic partnerships products and / or services are sourced among Global Sustain members and our from countries, manufacturers and/or key stakeholders. Finally, we continuously suppliers that have a weak or dubious encourage our partners to be pro-active human rights record. Based on the data corporate and individual citizens.. gathered, Global Sustain will examine the Moreover, in the event of a new possibility of making any changes in the collaboration and membership we sign way it sources products and services from detailed contracts according to state law its suppliers, hoping to make its own that safeguard our clients and suppliers, suppliers more aware of this important as well as Global Sustain. matter. Furthermore, Global Sustain will encourage its suppliers to become signatories to the United Nations Global Compact thus contributing to a more responsible supply chain. 6. Public Awareness Last year, Global Sustain invested in marketing and advertising and encouraged strategic partnerships with media and advertising companies. Collaborations with publishing groups and advertising agencies contributed to the creation of a more structured image of Global Sustain and the raise of awareness within the business community, as well as the media. For 2013, Global Sustain issued press releases regarding its own initiatives (the Sustainability Forum, the Yearbook) and actions (NGO funding) and the company’s ambassadors wrote articles for daily press and specialised magazines. Moreover, through daily postings and its bilingual newsletter, it raised awareness on its members’ sustainability efforts. The company acted as a communication sponsor (16 local and 16 international conferences) and organised (5 local and 1 32 Global Sustain Sustainability Report 2013 international) conferences with special concerning marketing communications, focus on sustainability. advertising, promotion and sponsorship. More specifically, Global Sustain: Our Target for 2014  Participated in the GRI Global We will continue our efforts to raise Conference on Sustainability and awareness regarding Global Sustain Reporting in Amsterdam, on May mission and the value of sustainability, 22-24, 2013. mostly by creating synergies with highprofile international organisations,  Presented the Yearbook 2012/13 launching new services and enhancing our – Innovation for Excellence at the presence in the media. European Parliament in Brussels, on June 26, 2013. 7. Client Service Satisfaction  Participated as an official partner At Global Sustain, we strongly believe that in the European Commission’s our members are the best ambassadors of Campaign “A world you like. With our work and mission. For this reason, we a climate you like”. daily try to keep them satisfied and offer them high quality services. Among the procedures we have put in place in order to meet the needs of our customers is the installation and use of an Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) software. The system helps Global Sustain to manage business processes, improve its corporate resource and asset utilisation for greater customer satisfaction. Once per year, we issue a detailed membership evaluation report for every Corporate and NGO / Society Premium member regarding our actions and services that we offered during the year, The voting for the annual funding of NGO so in this way we can monitor our programs was held through Global Sustain professional efficiency. official page in Facebook Moreover, we pursue regular in vivo (www.facebook.com/GlobalSustain), with meetings with our members in a more 5,929 confirmed votes. During 2013, there customised way in order to build strong were no incidents of non-compliance with relationships of mutual respect. regulations and voluntary codes 33 Global Sustain Sustainability Report 2013 According to the latest stakeholder survey conducted by our partner, Global Link for Global Sustain: 1. 92% of respondents never face problems with Global Sustain. 2. Expectations 82.6% of Global Sustains members, consider that the company meets their expectations. 34 Global Sustain Sustainability Report 2013 3. Communication with the company 78.3% of Global Sustain members are quite satisfied as far as the communication with the company is concerned. 4. Credibility and Effectiveness 74% of Global Sustains members consider that Global Sustain enjoys a very good level of credibility and effectiveness. 35 Global Sustain Sustainability Report 2013 5. Benefits 78% of Global Sustain members consider that communication and exposure are the greatest benefits that they enjoy while being members of the company. 6. Overall service satisfaction The provision of information, the Sustainability Forum, the communication services and the Yearbook are the services that are the most satisfactory according to those who use them. Very Satisfied & Satisfied Information-help desk 78% Sustainability Forum 76% Communication Services (websites, 73% newsletter, conferences, and social media) Yearbook 71% Advisory 62% Networking 60% Members-to-Members 52% 36 Global Sustain Sustainability Report 2013 Our Target for 2014 Global Sustain will continue to cover all sustainability needs for its members and We will grow our members’ base as well clients. In 2014 we will also try to create as the portfolio of our services through more opportunities for networking and regular surveys and personal meetings; members-to-members engagements. 37 Global Sustain Sustainability Report 2013 F. Human Resources 38 Global Sustain Sustainability Report 2013 Human resources constitute the most Our Target for 2014 dynamic element for Global Sustain growth, and this is why the firm Keep existing personnel and recruit new, systematically invests in finding, selecting, so as to secure the smooth operation and evaluating, retaining and developing its growth of the company and the provision human capital. of new innovative services to our members and clients. Global Sustain policies, practices, and procedures offer equal employment 2. Fair Employment opportunities to all of its employees. In Our company respects the internationally 2013, the gender employment ratio was recognised principles for human rights 40% for males and 60% for females and and fair employment as defined within the average age of company’s personnel the UN International Declaration of was 27 years. In 2013, Global Sustain had Human Rights and within the ten no administrative or other fines and Principles of the UN Global Compact. penalties for illegal employment or Global Sustain reiterates its commitment breaches against the employment to the effective abolition of child labour. regulatory framework. The firm neither employs any children nor Global Sustain aims at ensuring that its is involved in child labour, and is aware – human resources department functions in to the best of its knowledge – of conformity with the values and principles countries, regions, sectors and economic of the Code of Conduct, so that all staff activities where there is a greater actions are in line with the relevant likelihood of child labour. Global Sustain principles of corporate conduct: adheres to the minimum age provisions of local national labour laws and regulations, Legality The customer comes first while the company fully recognises that Quality of staff child labour deprives children of their childhood in order to assist in the Respect for the environment effective abolition of child labour. Global 1. Workforce Sustain is highly conscious of its procurement decisions and where the A key pillar of our company’s operations is products it purchases or services it uses the awareness that all employees must be are produced or delivered. treated with respect and a constructive staff relationship must be maintained. Global Sustain also reiterates its commitment to the elimination of – and Worth mentioning is the fact that despite the fact that the company has not been the challenging economic environment involved in – any forms of forced and/or and in times where other companies compulsory labour since the firm’s minimise costs and their workforce, establishment. Global Sustain retained its workforce in 2013. Global Sustain has ensured that all its ambassadors have a full understanding of what forced labour is. It should be noted that the firm does not rely on labour 39 Global Sustain Sustainability Report 2013 providers, such as recruitment agencies so that each and everyone can contribute and executive search firms, for to the preservation and improvement of recruitment, and therefore the need to health and safety conditions at work. ensure that no forced labour is supplied Our Target for 2014 has not arisen to date. Finally, part of the firm’s values (and Focusing firmly on creating a culture of therefore corporate DNA) is not to use, be Health and Safety at work, we aim at complicit in, or benefit from forced conducting a daily training program on Health and Safety issues, promoting in labour. this way the importance of health and Finally, Global Sustain respects that its safety in the workplace. ambassadors may freely and voluntarily establish and join organisations of their 4. Employee Development own choice for upholding the freedom of i. Training association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Global Sustain considers professional skills, expertise and continuing staff It should be noted that none of Global training as a key factor for growth, and for Sustain ambassadors is currently a sustaining its competitive advantage. member of any trade union. Within the frame of our employees’ development we have designed and Our Target for 2014 implemented an extensive training We will keep promoting respect, wellprogram, addressing issues related to CSR, being and work-life balance and we will sustainability, corporate governance, keep fostering diversity in order to business ethics, energy efficiency, etc. preserve our attractiveness as an Indicatively, our employees participated employer and to encourage new talent to in more than 30 events, conferences and surface. training workshops during the last year. 3. Health and Safety Also, our employees had the opportunity to attend the Sustainability Forum 2013 (a Having as a priority to have a safe full day event) organised by Global workplace for our employees, we focus on Sustain, where internationally-acclaimed ensuring suitable work conditions and speakers and experts shared their handsfollow health and safety rules so as to on expertise and experience through avoid potential occupational hazards and parallel, expert workshops that focused protect our employees. The health and on: GRI-G4 Reporting Guidelines, safety of our employees constitute a first Assurance, CSR & Sustainability, Doing priority duty for management and we more with Less and Doing More with always try to fully respect the Teams, Certifications in Sustainability, requirements laid down by legislation. Regulating Sustainability, Carbon Markets, Global Sustain has in place a Sustainability & Leadership and Business comprehensive occupational safety and and Academia for Sustainability, etc. health policy known and efficiently communicated to all staff and associates ii. Appraisal system 40 Global Sustain Sustainability Report 2013 Our appraisal development system is in the company and to gather staff crucial for the development of our opinions and concerns regarding every employees. Through this system, we day issues. It also aims to enhance identify strengths and improvements corporate culture and the implementation areas, while we always record actions that of strategy, the work climate and the can facilitate employees’ professional overall performance of the company. For advancement. Additionally, our this reason, we have established a employees’ performance is rewarded dialogue with our employees in a every 3 months, as the appraisal system is systematic way, via internal linked to the bonus scheme. communication processes and collective actions, such as: Our Target for 2014 Weekly internal meetings Training and the continuous education of Active participation in voluntary the employees is a source of employee activities satisfaction while in the meantime; it Conducting an employee helps the company retain its competitive satisfaction survey edge. That’s why we will continue enhancing our staff’s employability Our Target for 2014 through training and by improving mobility and flexibility. We will keep promoting change while maintaining effective dialogue with our 5. Internal communication employees, via internal meetings and participation in social and voluntary Regular internal communication aims to activities. keep staff informed about developments 41 Global Sustain Sustainability Report 2013 G. Society 42 Global Sustain Sustainability Report 2013 1. Social services office followed and from now on, we operate as a 100% climate Our values define who we are and guide neutral and zero-waste company. the way we think, act and do business. At Global Sustain, we: Our Target for 2014 Believe that making the world a We will continue to contribute to the local better place starts -first and economy through our capacity to create foremost -from ourselves, our value, business and jobs, for example by ambassadors and our using local suppliers. We will also stakeholders, and we are encourage our employees to participate in therefore active citizens in our development projects by providing personal and professional lives. human, logistical and financial support. We encourage our members to not just be good, but also be pro2. Giving back to society active corporate and individual Since its establishment in 2006, Global citizens; Sustain has been committed to Strongly believe that corporate contributing to the community at large. responsibility, responsible Therefore, every year it supports a variety investing and the green economy of social and environmental projects. should be the central focus of all companies and investors, At the end of each fiscal year, Global regardless of their size, the Sustain donates an important percentage industry sector or the location in of its pre-tax profits to one or two nonwhich they operate; and this is profit projects carried out by Nonwhat we communicate through Governmental Organisations, with the aim our websites, yearbooks and of helping fund specific social, events we participate in; environmental or other needs in the Are dedicated to becoming a citizen sector. 100% climate neutral and zeroThis policy is part of the company’s values waste company and respect the and has been clearly stated in Global natural environment in which we Sustain founding charter and is do business. This commitment particularly important in view of today’s refers to both our operations major social, environmental, governance (e.g., office, logistics, stationary, and other pressing challenges. staff movements) and products/services (e.g., Web portals, exhibitions, events, Yearbooks). In view of this commitment, Global Sustain neutralised its portal and received the CO2 Neutral Seal, a certification providing an integrated GHG Management approach. Then the Yearbooks, the Sustainability Forum, and our 43 Global Sustain Sustainability Report 2013 Funding beneficiaries since 2006 Funding in 2010 Funding in 2013 1. Project: “Psychosocial support of cancer patients and their 1. Project: “Education & environment” Treatment through Computer NGO: Society of volunteers Systems” against cancer –AgaliaZO NGO:ELEPAP-Rehabilitation for 2. Project: “AROGI guest house The Disabled for orphaned and poor children 2. Project: “Social Support in with special needs in Menidi, elderly years” Athens” NGO: Psychogeriatric NGO: AROGI Charity union for Association 'Nestor' social care issues Funding in 2012 Funding in 2009 1. Project: “We join forces for 60 1. Project: “Acquirement of new children in danger. United we apartments so as to expand its will make it!” activities” NGO: The Smile of the Child NGO: Floga Greek Parents 2. Project: “Sheltered housing” Association of Children with NGO: Association of Parents & Cancer Guardians People with Special 2. Project: “Elderly adoption Needs in the prefecture of program” Fthiotida NGO: Lifeline Hellas Nonprofit, charitable organisation for Telecare and Help at Home Funding in 2011 3. Project: “The extraverbal communication of children 1. Project: “Family strengthening with cerebral palsy” and counseling centre of NGO: The Hadzipaterion Athens” Rehabilitation Centre for NGO: SOS Children’s Villages Children with Cerebral Palsy Greece (R.C.C.C.P.) program of the 2. Project: “Action for Social Work Foundation psychosocial support for people (S.W.F.) with mental health problems due to the effects of the crisis” NGO: S.O.P.S.I. Patras Association for the Mental Health of Patras 44 Global Sustain Sustainability Report 2013 Funding in 2008 Funding in 2006 1. Project: “Revealing the At the end of 2006, Global unknown world of Monk in Sustain sponsored “The Smile Cyclades” of the Child”, a voluntary NGO: Mom/Hellenink Society children’s association for the Study and Protection of committed to putting a smile the Monk Seal on the face of each abused, 2. Project: “Operation of lost, abducted, abandoned or playground in the refugees’ troubled child in Greece. reception center” NGO: Social Solidarity Our Target for 2014 Global Sustain acknowledges the importance of annual funding to specific Funding in 2007 non-profit projects submitted by NGO members and aims to continue it. 1. Project: “Funding of two polyclinics, one based in central 3. Volunteering Athens and the other, in Since its establishment, Global Sustain Thessaloniki” NGO:Médecins and its ambassadors pro-actively support du Monde-Greece and often participate in local and national 2. Project: “The Aegean Seed events and campaigns that focus on Bank” raising awareness on a number of NGO: Archipelagos, Institute of pressing and important issues related to Marine Conservation CSR, philanthropy, climate change, environmental protection, sustainability, the citizen sector, etc. Global Sustain participated in the “Let’s Do it Greece” project by doing some voluntary work, planting trees at the center of Athens. This educational and well-publicised tree-planting activity often attended by children with their parents, scouts, voluntary groups, local NGOs, Mayors, journalists and local residentshave been also published on the Global Sustain portal. During 2013, Global Sustain ambassadors participated in the 31st Athens Classic Marathon and in the Half Marathon (as members of the WIND Running Team) 45 Global Sustain Sustainability Report 2013 supporting NGOs. With their participation the European CSR Awards, as a member contributed to WIND’s initiative for social of the Jury Committee for SMEs in Greece. solidarity in order At ALBA Graduate to support ΕLEPAP, Business School CSR for children with event, Michael disabilities and Spanos, gave a FLOGA, for presentation children with neo entitled plasmatic disease. “Sustainability in Times of Crisis”. Furthermore, Global Sustain has participated in the Susan G. Komen “Race for the Cure” event supporting Our Target for 2014 ALMA ZOIS, which is a non-profit, voluntary citizens' group that supports We aim to create an annual employee women with breast cancer, in Citibank volunteer program so as to motivate our Dinners Club event supporting WWF and employees to choose the preferred in the CSR Day Awareness for AIR FRANCE program utilising their own skills. KLM. Also, Michael Spanos, Managing Partner of Global Sustain, participated in 46 Global Sustain Sustainability Report 2013 H. Environment 47 Global Sustain Sustainability Report 2013 1. Strategy and Management communities regarding our environmental commitment As a responsible corporate entity, Global and performance; and Sustain is committed to protecting the regular audits of our environment in compliance with the procedures to ensure environmental laws and the practices of conformance to our policy. the communities where it operates. While pursuing our activities, we i. Environmental Policy endeavour to minimise any adverse Our commitment is summarised in the impact on air, water and land by means of following principles: pollution prevention and energy and water conservation. By doing so, we application of good achieve cost savings, an increased environmental practices; operational efficiency, improved quality of consideration of the services and ultimately, a safe environmental impact within environment for the community as a the processes of development whole and a healthy workplace for our and engineering of our employees. products and services; prevention of pollution by 2. Measures and Initiatives for Reducing responsible management of our Environmental Impact materials, reduction of i. Raw Materials and Waste emissions and waste and Management efficient use of energy and natural resources; As a service company, Global Sustain does promotion of the idea of not engage in any physical production environmental responsibility process and thus doesn’t produce among our employees; they significant waste. are trained in managing their environmental Our Target for 2014 responsibilities, dealing with We are supporting comprehensive day-to-day actions to help in recycling programs for our office, to preserving a healthy reduce waste at least by 10%, in 2014. environment and reacting to environmental emergencies; In 2013, Global Sustain increased the monitoring of our percentage of reusable “waste” produced environmental performance by its headquarters. Our focus is to reduce and setting measurable 5% the energy intensity in our office that objectives and targets for is utilised through our work and to reduce achieving sustainable the resources we use to mitigate the improvement; environmental impact of our services. In communicating with our 2013, we calculated our product carbon employees and local footprint for the second time. 48 Global Sustain Sustainability Report 2013 3. Measuring and Reporting our hand, we set new technologies and Environmental Impact processes in place that help reduce our carbon footprint. On the other hand, we i. Recycling conduct awareness campaigns to educate In the following year, our target is to and encourage our employees to protect lower printing paper consumption. We natural resources by lowering the use of reduced the number of pages printed per paper and energy. employee. To achieve this result, we used As part of its values, Global Sustain is a double-sided printing. Furthermore, we 100% climate neutral and zero-waste educated and encouraged our employees company. This vision refers to both its to reduce paper use and increase paper operations (e.g. office, logistics, staff recycling. We started setting goals and movements) and its products / services tracking the use of recycled materials that (e.g. Web portals, exhibitions, events, the we use, such as printing paper. Our main Yearbooks). In view of this commitment, objective is to reduce the amount of Global Sustain has neutralised its popular paper consumption overall within the portal at http://www.globalsustain.org company by continuing to review our use and its offices. The company measured, of paper for marketing material, and managed and offset 32 tons of CO2 for other supplies. 2013, operating as a 100% carbon neutral In 2013, Global Sustain used 100% company and received the CO2 recycled content paper; we have the same NeutralSeal, a certification providing an target for 2014. In the same year, we used integrated GHG Management approach. FSC certified paper for the production of By implementing this integrated the “Yearbook 2012/13” that means the approach, the CO2 Neutral Seal certifies printing process and paper used for that the appropriate accounting producing this publication conforms to procedure was used and ensures FSC® standards. FSC® develops the policy accuracy, consistency and transparency in and standards to support responsible the offset procedure. Global Sustain forest management world-wide. These portal http://www.globalsustain.org is the include guidelines for certification, first of its kind in Greece to be certified as accreditation, trademark use and being a “Carbon Neutral Web site”. This governance, among other activities innovative solution not only helps certify related to the FSC® system. the climate neutrality of Global Sustain Our Target for 2014 portal, but is also a step forward for our social venture towards becoming a In 2014, Global Sustain will use 100% climate neutral and zero-waste company. recycled paper and all our printed products will conform to FSC® standards. Our Target for 2014 ii. Greenhouse Gases and other Gases In 2014, Global Sustain aims to reduce its Emissions GHG emissions by 5%. We follow a two-sided approach to reduce our GHG emissions. On the one 49 Global Sustain Sustainability Report 2013 CO2 Neutral Seal The impact achieved by this solution includes: The CO2 Neutral Seal is an innovative range of fully-transparent, high-quality Reducing GHG emissions / and reliable carbon management services, global warming mitigation. for GHG Increasing awareness among emissions portal visitors on climate created neutrality and offset schemes from to become carbon neutral. corporate By increasing the power plant or private installed capacity, the project IT usage, will utilise additional events and geothermal energy sources business for generating electricity. The operations. electricity generated will be The exported to the JAMALI grid, certificates displacing electricity from that are primarily fossil-fuel based being issued are generated based on power plants that supply the holistic approaches, while the offsetting grid. process is supported by the utilisation of Generating a cost-effective renewable energy projects from which tool for achieving Global the offsetting is done, along with proof of Sustain climate, the retirement that can be traced and environmental and energy verified. efficiency targets. Based on advanced open-source tracking iii.Energy and Water Consumption and calculation methodology, the carbon footprint of the Web portal has been In 2013, Global Sustain consumed about measured by Global Sustain corporate 5,814 kWh in indirect energy. member Green Evolution S.A. More Furthermore, we estimate that we used specifically, through traffic data from approximately 28 m3 of water in 2013. As Google Analytics and advanced a service company, our operations are not calculations, Green Evolution has water-intensive. Due to the limited measured the carbon footprint of the impact, we do not measure water computers visiting the portal, the servers discharge at this stage. hosting the portal, and the networks that connect. At the end of each month, CO2 Our Target for 2014 Neutral Seal automatically neutralises the While our operations are not energy and carbon emissions with high-quality carbon water intensive, we will continue to use credits. These emissions are continuously electricity and water efficiently. being fully offset through high-quality carbon credits generated by “Capacity Upgrade of Gunung Salak Geothermal Power Plant Project”, in Indonesia. 50 Global Sustain Sustainability Report 2013 community groups and environmental organisations to preserve, restore, and enhance existing habitats. Global Sustain has actively been engaged in encouraging an interactive dialogue among key stakeholders on important issues such as biodiversity, energy security, climate change, Carbon Capture and Storage (CCS), environmental protection and our energy future between now and the year 2050. vi. Design and Development of Services that contribute to Climate Change Mitigation Our environmental policy represents our iv. Transportation Management’s commitment to operate The key sources of our environmental with respect to the environment and the impact through transportation are social partners. Company policy seeks to employee commuting and business trips. achieve much more than an Logistics, such as mail and software Environmental Management System has downloads, only have a minor impact. to offer. Our Target for 2014 It seeks to promote environmental awareness and responsibility, both among Our efforts to reduce indirect energy our top management as well as among all consumption will focus on businessemployees, without exception, and it related travel and employee commuting. demands that they comply with current legislation, and, to where possible, to go v. Biodiversity one step further. Global Sustain does not have any buildings in protected areas or areas of high biodiversity value outside protected area. Nevertheless, we organise activities to protect biodiversity through our stakeholders. We support various 51 Global Sustain Sustainability Report 2013 United Nations Global Compact Table The Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact and how they relate to Global Sustain’s communication on progress Human rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Commitment: Report section: F2 Principle 2: Businesses should ensure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Commitment: Report section: F2, E3 Labour Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Commitment: Report section: F2 Principle 4: Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour Commitment: Report section: F Principle 5: Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour Commitment: Report section: F2, E3 Principle 6: Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Commitment: Report section: F, E3 Environment Principle 7: Businesses are asked to support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Commitment: Report section: H Principle 8: Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Commitment: Report section: H Principle 9: Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentallyfriendly technologies Commitment: Report section: H Anticorruption Principle 10: Business should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery Commitment: Report section: E3, E5 oRplica G3.1 Content Index GRI Application Level C Application Level C GRI-checked Assured by STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART I: Profile Disclosures REPORT FULLY ON THE BELOW SELECTION OF PROFILE DISCLOSURES OR PROVIDE A REASON FOR OMISSION 1. Strategy and Analysis Profile Description Reported CrossReason Explanation Disclosure reference/Direct for answer omission 1.1 Statement from the most senior Fully A decision-maker of the 52 Global Sustain Sustainability Report 2013 organization. 2. Organisational Profile Profile Description Reported CrossReason Explanation Disclosure reference/Direct for answer omission 2.1 Name of the organization. Fully C1 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or Fully C2 services. 2.3 Operational structure of the Fully C (The company organization, including main maintains offices divisions, operating companies, in U.K. and subsidiaries, and joint ventures. Belgium) 2.4 Location of organization's Fully C1 headquarters. 2.5 Number of countries where the Fully B1, C1 organization operates, and names of countries with either major operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report. 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal Fully C form. 2.7 Markets served (including Fully C2 geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of customers/beneficiaries). 2.8 Scale of the reporting Fully C2, E2,E3, E6 organization. 2.9 Significant changes during the Fully A reporting period regarding size, structure, or ownership. 2.10 Awards received in the reporting Fully The company period. received zero awards 3. Report Parameters Profile Description Reported CrossReason Explanation Disclosure reference/Direct for answer omission 3.1 Reporting period (e.g., Fully B1 fiscal/calendar year) for 53 Global Sustain Sustainability Report 2013 information provided. 3.2 Date of most recent previous Fully B1 report (if any). 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, Fully B1 etc.) 3.4 Contact point for questions Fully B4 regarding the report or its contents. 3.5 Process for defining report Fully B2 content. 3.6 Boundary of the report (e.g., Fully B1 countries, divisions, subsidiaries, leased facilities, joint ventures, suppliers). See GRI Boundary Protocol for further guidance. 3.7 State any specific limitations on Fully This report addresses the full the scope or boundary of the range report (see completeness of material economic, principle for explanation of environmental, and social scope). impacts of the organisation in Greece. As far as data from offices in other countries are concerned, they will be incuded in the next report. 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint Not Does There are no joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased not exist ventures, facilities, outsourced operations, subsidiaries, leased and other entities that can facilities, significantly affect comparability outsourced from period to period and/or operations or other between organizations. entities for the specific reporting period 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any Not Does There are not any re-statements of information not exist re-statements provided in earlier reports, and the reasons for such restatement (e.g.,mergers/acquisitions, change of base years/periods, nature of business, measurement methods). 3.11 Significant changes from Not Does There are not any previous reporting periods in the not exist significant changes scope, boundary, or from previous measurement methods applied reporting periods 54 Global Sustain Sustainability Report 2013 in the report. 3.12 Table identifying the location of Fully p. 51 the Standard Disclosures in the report. 4. Governance, Commitments, and Engagement Profile Description Reported CrossReason Explanation Disclosure reference/Direct for answer omission 4.1 Governance structure of the Fully D3, there are no organization, including other committees committees under the highest and the company governance body responsible for can not disclose specific tasks, such as setting information strategy or organizational regarding specific oversight. percentages within the Partners Assembly 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the Fully The Chair of the highest governance body is also Partners an executive officer. Assemply is also the Managing Partner 4.3 For organizations that have a Not Does There are no unitary board structure, state the not exist independent number and gender of members and/or nonof the highest governance body executive members that are independent and/or in the highest non-executive members. governance body 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders Fully F5 and employees to provide recommendations or direction to the highest governance body. 4.14 List of stakeholder groups Fully D4 engaged by the organization. 4.15 Basis for identification and Fully D4 selection of stakeholders with whom to engage. STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART III: Performance Indicators REPORT FULLY ON 10 CORE OR ADDITIONAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS AT LEAST 1 FROM EACH DIMENSION (ECONOMIC, ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL) 55 Global Sustain Sustainability Report 2013 Economic Performance Description Reported Cross-reference/Direct answer Indicator Economic performance EC1 Direct economic value generated Fully E1, E2 and distributed, including revenues, operating costs, employee compensation, donations and other community investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments. EC2 Financial implications and other Fully A, E1 risks and opportunities for the organization's activities due to climate change. EC3 Coverage of the organization's Not Not applicable defined benefit plan obligations. EC4 Significant financial assistance Not Not applicable received from government. Market presence EC5 Range of ratios of standard entry Not Not applicable level wage by gender compared to local minimum wage at significant locations of operation. EC6 Policy, practices, and proportion Not Not applicable of spending on locally-based suppliers at significant locations of operation. EC7 Procedures for local hiring and Not Not applicable proportion of senior management hired from the local community at significant locations of operation. Indirect economic impacts EC8 Development and impact of Not Not applicable infrastructure investments and services provided primarily for public benefit through commercial, in-kind, or pro bono engagement. EC9 Understanding and describing Not Not applicable significant indirect economic 56 Global Sustain Sustainability Report 2013 impacts, including the extent of impacts. Environmental Performance Description Reported Cross-reference/Direct answer Indicator Materials EN1 Materials used by weight or Not Not reported volume. EN2 Percentage of materials used Fully H3i that are recycled input materials. Energy EN3 Direct energy consumption by Fully There was zero consumption of diesel or other direct primary energy source. energy EN4 Indirect energy consumption by Partially H3iii primary source. EN5 Energy saved due to Fully There were zero improvements conservation and efficiency improvements. EN6 Initiatives to provide energyFully There were zero initiatives and zero reductions as a efficient or renewable energy result of these initiatives based products and services, and reductions in energy requirements as a result of these initiatives. EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect Fully There were zero initiatives to reduce indirect energy energy consumption and consumption reductions achieved. Water EN8 Total water withdrawal by Partially H3iii source. EN9 Water sources significantly Fully There were zero water sources affected by withdrawl affected by withdrawal of water. of water EN10 Percentage and total volume of Fully The company didn’t recycle or reuse water water recycled and reused. Biodiversity EN11 Location and size of land owned, Fully The Company does not have any buildings in leased, managed in, or adjacent protected areas or areas of high biodiversity value to, protected areas and areas of outside protected area. Nevertheless, we set in place high biodiversity value outside activities to protect biodiversity at our premises. 57 Global Sustain Sustainability Report 2013 protected areas. EN12 Description of significant impacts Fully The Company does not have any buildings in of activities, products, and protected areas or areas of high biodiversity value services on biodiversity in outside protected area. Nevertheless, we set in place protected areas and areas of high activities to protect biodiversity at our premises. biodiversity value outside protected areas. EN13 Habitats protected or restored. Partially H3v EN14 Strategies, current actions, and Partially H3v future plans for managing impacts on biodiversity. EN15 Number of IUCN Red List species Fully There were zero species affected and national conservation list species with habitats in areas affected by operations, by level of extinction risk. Emissions, effluents and waste EN16 Total direct and indirect Fully H3ii greenhouse gas emissions by weight. EN17 Other relevant indirect Not Not applicable greenhouse gas emissions by weight. EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse Fully H3ii gas emissions and reductions achieved. EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting Fully There are zero ozone-depleting substances substances by weight. EN20 NOx, SOx, and other significant Not Due to the nature of our business as a service air emissions by type and weight. company, NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions are not material . EN21 Total water discharge by quality Not As a service company, our operations are not waterand destination. intensive. Water discharges stem primarily from operating our office building. Due to the limited impact, we do not measure water discharge at this stage. EN22 Total weight of waste by type Partially H2i and disposal method. EN23 Total number and volume of Fully There were zero spills significant spills. 58 Global Sustain Sustainability Report 2013 EN24 Weight of transported, imported, Fully There was zero transported hazardous waste exported, or treated waste deemed hazardous under the terms of the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally. EN25 Identity, size, protected status, Fully There were no discharges of water and runoff and biodiversity value of water bodies and related habitats significantly affected by the reporting organization's discharges of water and runoff. Products and services EN26 Initiatives to mitigate Partially H2i environmental impacts of products and services, and extent of impact mitigation. EN27 Percentage of products sold and Fully There were zero products sold and packaging their packaging materials that materials reclaimed by category are reclaimed by category. Compliance EN28 Monetary value of significant Fully There are no significant fines or non-monetary fines and total number of nonsanctions levied against Global Sustain. monetary sanctions for noncompliance with environmental laws and regulations. Transport EN29 Significant environmental Fully The key sources of our environmental impact impacts of transporting products through transportation are employee commuting and other goods and materials and business trips. Logistics, such as mail and used for the organization's software downloads, only have a minor impact. operations, and transporting members of the workforce. Overall EN30 Total environmental protection Not Not applicable expenditures and investments by type. Social: Labor Practices and Decent Work Performance Description Reported Cross-reference/Direct answer Indicator Employment 59 Global Sustain Sustainability Report 2013 LA1 Total workforce by employment Fully E3 type, employment contract, and region, broken down by gender. LA2 Total number and rate of new Fully Zero hires took place in Greece. employee hires and employee turnover by age group, gender, and region. LA3 Benefits provided to full-time Fully There were zero benefits provided employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees, by major operations. LA15 Return to work and retention Not Not applicable rates after parental leave, by gender. Labor/management relations LA4 Percentage of employees Fully 100% covered by collective bargaining agreements. LA5 Minimum notice period(s) Fully Notice period: 3 months. It is not specified in regarding significant operational collective agreements changes, including whether it is specified in collective agreements. Occupational health and safety LA6 Percentage of total workforce Fully There are not health and safety committees represented in formal joint management-worker health and safety committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs. LA7 Rates of injury, occupational Fully Lost work days for workforce were 15 although diseases, lost days, and there weren’t any injuries, occupational diseases, absenteeism, and number of and work related fatalities work-related fatalities by region and by gender. LA8 Education, training, counseling, Not Not applicable prevention, and risk-control programs in place to assist workforce members, their families, or community members regarding serious diseases. LA9 Health and safety topics covered Not Not applicable in formal agreements with trade 60 Global Sustain Sustainability Report 2013 unions. Training and education LA10 Average hours of training per Partially F4i (There is no availabe data for training hours, as year per employee by gender, well as for the gender and employee category) and by employee category. LA11 Programs for skills management Partially F4 and lifelong learning that support the continued employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings. LA12 Percentage of employees Not Not applicable receiving regular performance and career development reviews, by gender. Diversity and equal opportunity LA13 Composition of governance Not Not applicable bodies and breakdown of employees per employee category according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity. Equal remuneration for women and men LA14 Ratio of basic salary and Not Not applicable remuneration of women to men by employee category, by significant locations of operation. Social: Human Rights Performance Description Reported Cross-reference/Direct answer Indicator Investment and procurement practices HR1 Percentage and total number of Not Not applicable significant investment agreements and contracts that include clauses incorporating human rights concerns, or that have undergone human rights screening. HR2 Percentage of significant Not Not applicable suppliers, contractors and other business partners that have undergone human rights 61 Global Sustain Sustainability Report 2013 screening, and actions taken. HR3 Total hours of employee training Not Not applicable on policies and procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained. Non-discrimination HR4 Total number of incidents of Fully There zero incidents of discrimination discrimination and actions taken. Freedom of association and collective bargaining HR5 Operations and significant Not Not applicable suppliers identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining may be violated or at significant risk, and actions taken to support these rights. Child labor HR6 Operations and significant Not Not applicable suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor, and measures taken to contribute to the effective abolition of child labor. Forced and compulsory labor HR7 Operations and significant Not Not applicable suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor, and measures to contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor. Security practices HR8 Percentage of security personnel Fully There is not security personnel trained in the organization's policies or procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations. Indigenous rights 62 Global Sustain Sustainability Report 2013 HR9 Total number of incidents of Fully There were zero violations involving rights of violations involving rights of indigenous people indigenous people and actions taken. Assessment HR10 Percentage and total number of Fully There were zero operations that have been subject operations that have been to human rights reviews and/or impact assesements subject to human rights reviews and/or impact assessments. Remediation HR11 Number of grievances related to Fully There were zero grievances related to human rights human rights filed, addressed field and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms. Social: Society Performance Description Reported Cross-reference/Direct answer Indicator Local communities SO1 Percentage of operations with Fully G2 implemented local community engagement, impact assessments, and development programs. SO9 Operations with significant Fully Company operation does not affect negatively local potential or actual negative communities. impacts on local communities. SO10 Prevention and mitigation Fully Company operation does not affect negatively local measures implemented in communities. operations with significant potential or actual negative impacts on local communities. Corruption SO2 Percentage and total number of Fully D3 (100%) business units analyzed for risks related to corruption. SO3 Percentage of employees trained Fully 100% in organization's anti-corruption policies and procedures. SO4 Actions taken in response to Fully There were zero incidents of corruption incidents of corruption. 63 Global Sustain Sustainability Report 2013 Public policy SO5 Public policy positions and Fully Company is a GRI Organizational Stakeholder and participation in public policy data partner participating in public policy development and lobbying. development also through its representative office in Brussels with the European Commission agencies. Also a signatory to the UN-supported Principles for Responsible Investment and Global Compact SO6 Total value of financial and inFully There were zero financial and in-kind contributions kind contributions to political to political parties, politicians, and related parties, politicians, and related institutions institutions by country. Anti-competitive behavior SO7 Total number of legal actions for Fully E3 anti-competitive behavior, antitrust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes. Compliance SO8 Monetary value of significant Fully E3 fines and total number of nonmonetary sanctions for noncompliance with laws and regulations. Social: Product Responsibility Performance Description Reported Cross-reference/Direct answer Indicator Customer health and safety PR1 Life cycle stages in which health Fully Services provided by Global Sustain have zero impact and safety impacts of products on health and safety and services are assessed for improvement, and percentage of significant products and services categories subject to such procedures. PR2 Total number of incidents of nonFully Services provided by Global Sustain are not subject compliance with regulations and to regulations and voluntary codes concerning health voluntary codes concerning and safety health and safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes. Product and service labelling PR3 Type of product and service Fully Services provided by Global Sustain are not subject information required by 64 Global Sustain Sustainability Report 2013 procedures, and percentage of to such information requirements significant products and services subject to such information requirements. PR4 Total number of incidents of nonFully Services provided by Global Sustain are not subject compliance with regulations and to regullations and voluntary codes concerning voluntary codes concerning product and service information and labelling product and service information and labeling, by type of outcomes. PR5 Practices related to customer Fully E7 satisfaction, including results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction. Marketing communications PR6 Programs for adherence to laws, Fully Services provided by Global Sustain are not subject standards, and voluntary codes to standards and voluntary codes related to related to marketing marketing communications, advertising, promotion communications, including and sponsorship advertising, promotion, and sponsorship. PR7 Total number of incidents of nonFully Services provided by Global Sustain are not subject compliance with regulations and to regulations and voluntary codes concerning voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, advertising, promotion marketing communications, and sponsorship and there were zero incidents including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship by type of outcomes. Customer privacy PR8 Total number of substantiated Fully There were zero complaints complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data. Compliance PR9 Monetary value of significant Fully E3 fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services. 65 Global Sustain Sustainability Report 2013 ASSURANCE STATEMENT 66 Global Sustain Sustainability Report 2013 67 Global Sustain Sustainability Report 2013 68 Global Sustain Sustainability Report 2013 69 Global Sustain Sustainability Report 2013 Global Sustain has covered all necessary disclosures required for level C+ of GRI-G3.1 Guidelines 70 Global Sustain Sustainability Report 2013 Abbreviations CCS Carbon Capture and Storage CO2 Carbon Dioxide COP Communication on Progress CSR Corporate Social Responsibility EBITDA Earnings Before Interest, Taxes, Depreciation and Amortisation FSC Forest Stewardship Council GCLN Global Compact Local Network GHG Greenhouse Gas GRI Global Reporting Initiative NGO Non-governmental Organisation SMEs Small and Medium-sized Enterprises SRI Sustainable & Responsible Investing UN United Nations 71 Global Sustain Sustainability Report 2013 Feedback Form We would be grateful if you could help us improve our Sustainability Report by completing the form below: Which stakeholder group do you belong to (check all that apply)? Employee  Member  Supplier  Community  Academia  Network  Media  Rate our Sustainability Report: Does the report meet your information requirements? Poor Average Good Excellent Is the report open and transparent? Poor Average Good Excellent Do you find the report easy to understand? Poor Average Good Excellent Does the report have useful information? Poor Average Good Excellent How would you rate the “Strategy & Management” section? Poor Average Good Excellent How would you rate the “Marketplace”section? Poor Average Good Excellent How would you rate the “Human Recources” section? Poor Average Good Excellent How would you rate the “Society” section? Poor Average Good Excellent How would you rate the “Environment” section? Poor Average Good Excellent How much do you agree with the following statements? Rate the statements with 1-5. (1) Completely disagree and (5) Completely agree There is balance between the different sections 1 2 34  5 The content is complete and clear 1 2 34  5 There is a full coverage of fundamental issues of firm’s operation 1  2  3  4  5  72 Global Sustain Sustainability Report 2013 The graphs and stats are depicted in a comprehensible way 1 2 34  5 The structure is functional and makes reading easier 1 2 34  5 The overall look of the report (text and illustration) is pleasant 1 2 34  5 I prefer the printed version of the report 1 2 34  5 I prefer the on-line version of the report 1 2 34  5 I found it a worth reading the report and I would recommend it 1 2 34  5 Please specify any issues not being included (or partially refered) in the present report that you would like to see featured in our next Sustainability Report. ___________________________________________________________________________ After reading our Sustainability Report, has your opinion about Global Sustain and its operations changed? Positively  Not at all  Negatively  Are there any comments or suggestions that you would like to make on the report? ___________________________________________________________________________ Thank you for your co-operation. We appreciate your feedback. Please return this form by post to: Global Sustain Personal Details 2, K. Palama Street & 161, Vouliagmenis Avenue, GR-172 37, Dafni, Athens, Greece Full Name: _______________________ Attn: Mrs. Ilektra Liberopoulou, Marketing & Company/Organisation: ______________ Communications Manager Tel.: _________________________ Or send via e-mail to: info@globalsustain.org or Fax to: (+30) 210 927 1119 E-mail address: ____________________ All the compiled data will be used only for the improvement of our Sustainability Report and current initiatives. All personal data will be protected as defined by law.
