CSR REPORT 2014 Corporate Social Responsibility www.daifuku.com 1408-09CSR-E Opening Dialog: To Our Stakeholders Daifuku is creating and pr oviding new value to contribute to societies, industries and the enviro nment worldwide Masaki Hojo Hiroko Kiba President and CEO Newscaster; visiting professor Accommodating to changing needs and the factory automation (FA) and distribution automation constantly creating value demanded (DA) ﬁelds for a multitude of industries worldwide, including conveyor and storage systems for automobile factories and by the times clean rooms, where semiconductors and ﬂat-panel displays Kiba: Since its founding in 1937, how has Daifuku come to be a are manufactured, as well as picking and sorting systems in leading company in the material handling industry today? distribution centers in the e-commerce sector. Hojo: Our Company started with the manufacturing of forge Kiba: I see that Daifuku has always stood at the forefront rolling machinery for ironworks before moving into cargo throughout its history and directly addressed social changes, handling machinery for loading and unloading freight in ports leading to it developing many ﬁrsts for Japan and for the and warehouses. The movable conveying machinery and world. conveyors for unloading imported grain we developed in the Hojo: Looking back over the path Daifuku has followed, you 1940s and 50s were groundbreaking for their time, improving can see our eﬀorts to realize the needs of our customers and not only working eﬃciency but also dramatically raising society over these 77 years. The driving force behind this has safety. been our desire to bring happiness to our business Our operations expanded in the latter half of the 1950s, customers, the people who work there, and, through them, when Japan was entering into a period of high economic to consumers. growth, into chain conveyor systems and automatic guided vehicles (AGV) for automobile factories. In the 1960s we Burning with a sense of mission to support developed many products that were ﬁrsts for Japan, such as infrastructure essential to the development the rack-supported building automated storage and retrieval of the industry and economy system (AS/RS) and online computer-controlled unit load AS/RS system. Kiba: That desire is encapsulated in your management Following that, we began providing automated systems in philosophy to “provide the best solutions to beneﬁt the global markets and the development of society.” It expresses the stance of your company in placing emphasis on communication and bringing people together. Hojo: Our work is not ﬁnished with the delivery of our products. We perform maintenance, repairs and retroﬁtting of equipment to make sure distribution and production Proﬁle After graduating from the never stops; the delivery is actually the start of a long Faculty of Education of Chiba relationship with our customers, like two people in a University, she worked as an newscaster in 1987 as a 1959 Chain conveyor 1982 Installation of FA 2008 Worldʼs ﬁrst superthree-legged race. Itʼs our responsibility to ensure our newstationʼs ﬁrst female sports system installed in system at the worldʼs fast mini load AS/RS products operate over a long time, which is why we value newscaster. Afterwards, she has Japanʼs ﬁrst passenger most advanced motor with stacker cranes that made TV appearances,worked automobile factory factory move past one another trust and connections between people. as a lecturer and writer, and acted as a member of deliberative committees for the government and government agencies. In 2013 she was appointed as a visiting professor at Chiba University. 1 Daifuku CSR Report 2014 Daifuku CSR Report 2014 2 Opening Dialog: To Our Stakeholders Corporate Data ▼ ▼ Kiba: I have heard that you have a 24-hour, 365 days a year Corporate name: Daifuku Co., Ltd. System Support Center (see p.7) and resident service staﬀ Headquarters : 3-2-11 Mitejima, Nishiyodogawa-ku, Osaka stationed in your customersʼ sites to ensure nonstop 555-0012 JAPAN ▼ ▼ ▼ ▼ ▼ Established : May 20, 1937 logistics. Paid-in capital : 8,024 million yen (as of March 31, 2014) Hojo: In the automotive industry, it is said that each minute a Representative : Masaki Hojo, President and CEO production line stops moving, one car is lost. Semiconductor Employees : 7,349 (total for Daifuku Group / as of March 31, 2014) manufacturers also run their factories on a 24-hour basis. We Net sales : 241,811 million yen (ﬁscal year ended March 31, 2014) have around sixty service centers nationwide so that we can be ready to act whenever trouble occurs, with the mindset that we are part of a team with our customers. ■Worldwide sales Kiba: I see. Material handling is the technology used to Orders received Net sales Non-Japan sales ratio (Billion yen) (Billion yen) (%) eﬃciently transport various items during manufacturing and (Billion yen) (%) distribution and is a part of vital infrastructure for the 300 276.8 100 development of industry and the economy. 250 241.8 210.9 202.3 80 200 180.2 195.2 198.0 154.2 159.2 60 Promoting initiatives to further hone 150 133.2 52 61 47 50 50 40 development capabilities while reducing 100 environmental impact 50 20 0 0 Kiba: Could you explain your management policy for this FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 ﬁscal year for developing your business activities? Hojo: In ﬁscal 2013 we had increased earnings and proﬁts ■Mainstay products and exceeded our goals; however, no matter how great the ● Storage systems ● Conveying systems business performance, a company with low safety awareness and morale is bound to fail. That is why we are going back to our roots and focusing our eﬀorts on the keywords of S.Q.C.D.E.: safety, quality, cost, development, and ecology. Kiba: I have heard that “D” normally stands for “delivery,” so would it be correct to say that that you chose “developThe keywords for lifting the Group’s to bring our regional management together each year. ment” to reﬂect your commitment to manufacturing? comprehensive strength are Kiba: Nine languages is quite amazing. I think reading such ● Sorting systems ● Picking systems Hojo: Yes, that is right. Predicting needs in advance is the materials in your native language would make it easier for “globalization and localization” vital key to lifting our value in the global marketplace. We the philosophy to really make an impression. The excellence know that development is the source of competitiveness, Kiba: Daifukuʼs globalization is accelerating, with approxiof Daifukuʼs communication skills is apparent from how it is and by developing products and services that solve the mately 60% of your sales being outside of Japan. What developing its businesses regionally, yet with a high sense of problems our customers and society face, we can strengthen points do you focus on as the president as Daifuku expands unity based on a shared philosophy. the DAIFUKU brand. its global business? Hojo: Yes, that is right. With “globalization and localization” In Japan, we introduced an automatic prescription Hojo: To make the DAIFUKU brand more globally known, it as key themes, we will encourage various forms of ● Cleanroom systems ● Automobile production line systems checking system called audit in 2012 (see p.15). The system is absolutely essential we provide functions, prices and interaction in order to further heighten our comprehensive stemmed from the idea of whether we could help prevent quality that match each region. Instead of adopting a strengths. mistakes in dispensing medication by using our image pyramid-style operation with Japan at the top, I believe we processing and weight inspection know-how. It was a have to have each aﬃliate take the initiative to make Valuing the connections between people product-out device, which is unusual for Daifuku, but it judgments and act; for this purpose we are localizing our and contributing to society through our matched the needs of pharmacies and currently has been human resources, including top management, and our business operations introduced to 350 stores. We will take up a more proactive manufacturing structure. As of 2014, three of our subsidiaries ● Airport baggage handling systems ● Car wash machines stance to provide solutions to industries facing challenges. in North America are run by non-Japanese executives. Kiba: I now have a very clear understanding of the path We have also announced our environmentally friendly At the same time, we have made a brand book in nine Daifuku has taken and what its businesses are. Could you Daifuku Eco-Products (see p.26) and are undertaking a diﬀerent languages and issued panels with the company explain to me how Daifuku views its corporate social company-wide eﬀort to develop and spread environmental creed to oﬃces worldwide to ensure a shared philosophy. I responsibility (CSR)? technologies, while also proceeding with measures to reduce also believe that dialog is the most important factor. Hojo: There are various ways that companies contribute to environmental impact at our main production site, Shiga Accordingly, we make use of various opportunities to society. But when we talk about the responsibility our Works (see p.21). stimulate dialog, such as by holding global aﬃliate meetings company has to society, I believe it rests in our constant ● Bowling alley equipment, electronics 3 Daifuku CSR Report 2014 Daifuku CSR Report 2014 4 Opening Dialog: To Our Stakeholders creation and provision of value so that each consumer, as well as society overall, can feel grateful for Daifukuʼs business operations and CSR activities. cia Special all FFe ia ea e Feature: att a The two core points for Daifuku to fulﬁll its CSR are to contribute through its business operations to society and to Contents value the connections between people. Valuing the Opening Dialog 1-5 connections between employees, then our customers, business partners, shareholders and investors, people in the Special Feature: EDGE 6-26 local community and all other stakeholders, and providing products and services with value that can inspire people is, I Engagement 7 believe, the quintessence of Daifukuʼs CSR. Inspired people Development 13 can then change the world. Kiba: This years CSR Report has “EDGE” as its theme, under Global 17 which various activities are introduced. E nvironment 21 Hojo: “EDGE” comes from our brand message, Always an Edge Ahead. In this report Daifukuʼs activities are expressed CSR Management 27-29 Bringing Ideas Together in terms of Engagement, prioritizing the connections that dreams can provide motive for progress, we shall strive between people; Development, contributing to society by forward with our dreams to create new value. Third-party opinion 30 developing products; Global, expanding our businesses Kiba: Through this discussion today, I realize how deeply worldwide; and Environment, being environmentally involved Daifuku is in our daily lives. However, I think there conscious are many people who are unaware of your business operations and CSR activities, so I hope you can fully Innovating Through Our Technology A corporation trusted by customers and communicate these in a way to reach more consumers. By doing so, we too will be able to state our opinions more where employees can work with a dream easily, from which may come ideas for new products and Kiba: Lastly, can you tell us your vision for the future of Daifuku and give a message to Daifukuʼs stakeholders. services that will further better our daily lives in a positive upward cycle. Thank you very much for your time. lobal A Global Field of Action Hojo: I envision Daifuku as a company customers worldwide Hojo: While our products and technologies can be viewed at can place their unreserved trust in and as a place where our the Hini Arata Kan, our full-scale exhibition center for employees can challenge and realize their dreams. I also material handling and logistics technologies (see p.11), we envision Daifuku as a company that has a symbiotic will actively engage in communicating such information to relationship with all its stakeholders and is, in the true ensure our CSR stance and activities are also known so we meaning of the word, the leading global company. Believing can gain frank opinions from our stakeholders. Thank you. Initiatives for the Environment Editorial Policy Daifuku releases its CSR Report in order for its stakeholders to understand its approach to CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility). In ■Company Creed ■Management Philosophy publishing it as a tool for good communication 1. Provide the best solutions to beneﬁt with stakeholders, our aim is to create a report Our brand message is “Always an Edge Ahead.” In this CSR Report, that has originality and gives the reader the global markets and the development interest and a sense of concern. We would like we used the initials of EDGE to introduce the various activities of of society. to hear your opinions and thoughts in order to Daifuku. further raise the quality of our future CSR activities. Today we are doing better 2. Focus on healthy, growth-driven global than we were yesterday. management under a diverse and positive Report Period Tomorrow we will be growing corporate culture. ahead of where we are today. April 2013 March 2014 * Some articles may have information outside the said period. ■Brand Proposition ■Brand Message Contact Value Innovator We aim to evolve into a top-class Value Innovator that The brand message conveys our desire to create and CSR Promotion Department provides the best solutions for customers by capitalizing provide best solutions to give customers a competitive Daifuku Co., Ltd. on our experience and technologies we have edge. It also symbolizes our ﬂexible and outstanding 2-14-5 Shiba, Minato-ku, Tokyo 105-0014 accumulated as a comprehensive manufacturer and workforce, possessing both expertise and a commitment JAPAN integrator of material handling systems. to taking on new challenges and making changes Phone: +81 3 3456 2243 for the better. FAX : +81 3 3456 2258 E-mail : webmaster@ha.daifuku.co.jp 5 Daifuku CSR Report 2014 Daifuku CSR Report 2014 6 E Daifuku believes in building a mutual relationship with its Bringing Ideas Together Engagement stakeholders in all its corporate activities and endeavors to be Bringing Ideas Together a company that emphasizes the connections with both people and people’s ideas. ▼ To support enriched lifestyles Expert engineers on call 24 hours, Providing strong support for stable operations and rapid recovery 365 days a year as our responsibility as a vendor supplying social infrastructure Daifukuʼs products and technologies play vital roles in the production and distribution in a wide range of ﬁelds System Support Center essential to daily life. If there are any malfunctions, it will aﬀect not only our customers but the daily lives of people. Daifuku set up its System Support Center (SSC) to give rapid response for such situations that may occur. Working with about sixty service centers located throughout Japan, the SSC strives to ensure stable operation and rapid recovery. In particular, the SSC uses its unique support system for expert engineers to aid customers 24 hours a day all year round. Remote monitoring enables early detection of failures in systems, appropriate responses to inquiries from customers, and precise instructions to the service centers. Established as an industry pioneer. Providing ever more detailed and precise services The SSC was established in the Komaki Works as a pioneering call center in the logistics systems industry in 1993. In 2003 the SSC relocated to the Shiga Works and installed a Computer Telephony Integration system, which displayed the company name, address, details of the installed equipment, maintenance history and other information on the computer screen when a customer called. However, because recently installed systems use advanced IT systems, in September 2013 the support system was upgraded to enable information sharing with engineers of computer manufacturers and software vendors, strengthening cooperation to provide speedy solutions. Servicing information can also be shared with sales, engineering and the nearest service centers to help better provide more detailed and precise services. Additionally, to further aim at long-term stable operation of installed systems, the SSC is developing a new system that collects and analyzes information on failures to predict and prevent potential failures to provide maintenance solutions to customers. Comment from Kenji Misaki General Manager, Comprehensive Service Center, FA&DA Operations Reﬁning our skills to increase customer satisfaction After installation of the system, the quality of our cover 46 courses each year. Keeping “nonstop service engineers working directly with our customers logistics” as our continual mission, we aim to improve translates to the quality of Daifuku itself. For this customer satisfaction with highly reliable services and reason, as part of our service engineer trainings, we rapid recovery. constantly refine our skills by holding 110 trainings to 7 Daifuku CSR Report 2014 Daifuku CSR Report 2014 8 E Bringing Ideas Together Engagement Bringing Ideas Together ▼ For business continuity in the face of disaster Rack Tremor Testing Team ▼ For work and onsite safety Anzen-Taikan Dojo Engaging in research and Aiming for zero accidents by experiencing near misses development on various safety measures to prevent load collapse in case of an earthquake Open to partner companies as well as local companies and citizens The Anzen-Taikan Dojo, Daifukuʼs hands-on safety training facility at its Osaka headquarters, is a facility where people can simulate dangerous tasks involved in installations. In addition to our installation and services employees and new hires, partner companies and other outside organizations participate in the trainings. The courses are based on six scenarios of falls, electric shocks, being caught in operating equipment, equipment toppling over, ﬁre and the experience of work conditions in cleanrooms, and have been taken by 1,732 people since its establishment in June 2010. A second Anzen-Taikan Dojo was set up in the Shiga Experiencing a fall Experiencing ﬁre Works in April 2014 for manufacturing personnel. Initiation of the testing team engaged in preventing load collapse As Japan is highly prone to earthquakes, the earthquake-prooﬁng of storage systems has Comment from Toshimitsu Yasue CEO, Numazawa Industry Co., Ltd. (Mie Prefecture) long been a key issue. Loads collapsing inside an AS/RS from earthquakes can lead to Our ability to address risks increased through visualizing dangerous situations damaged loads or stalled logistics, heavily aﬀecting industry and peopleʼs daily lives. Preventing this not only minimizes losses to customers, it also helps in the provision of aid Thanks to the simulations experienced in the facility, experience in our in-company training and hope to we can visualize dangerous situations concretely. Our realize safer work sites together with Daifuku. supplies to disaster-aﬀected areas for a rapid recovery. risk sensitivity towards accidents that can occur in our Daifuku set up its Rack Tremor Testing Team in April 2008 and purchased a shake table operations has increased. We hope to use this to simulate earthquakes, the ﬁrst in the logistic systems industry. This enables us to conduct performance evaluation tests, which were previously commissioned to external organizations, in-house, greatly improving development speed. Developing of tremor-absorbing racks and rubber stoppers through testing ▼ Contributing to the local community Volunteer activities The team borrows cargo from customers and performs tests to verify the way loads collapse, Preserving the beauty and environment of local sights as a member of then proposes optimum safety solutions, including appropriate loading methods that match equipment and cargo and methods of wrapping ﬁlm for load collapse prevention. the community At the same time we have been engaged in product development, completing a Participating in cleaning activities in tremor-absorbing rack in December 2013 by adding dampers to the rack columns and Shakunage-kei Collapsing cargo from shaking ceiling beam joints to minimize shaking and decrease collapsing loads. We have also Shakunage-kei (Rhododendron Gorge), designated as a (above). Conﬁrming the developed rubber stoppers to decrease impact aﬀecting the cargo to minimize shifting of eﬀects of various methods for national natural monument, is located near the Shiga loads at the top. Daifuku will continue to engage in load shifting prevention to contribute prevent collapsing using ﬁlm Works. Since 2005, Daifuku has participated in yearly and installing rubber stoppers to logistics systems that can withstand earthquakes. cleaning activities organized by the Hino Town Tourist Association, helping to maintain local tourist resources. Comment from Yutaka Hasegawa Manager, Planning and Development Section, Structural Design Department, FA&DA Operations Comment from Kazuhiro Fujisawa Chief Secretary, Hino Town Tourist Association (Shiga Prefecture) Further expanding our lineup of systems for anti-seismic measures Able to fully appreciate nature safely and pleasantly We repeated evaluation tests to see what impacts solutions is expanding. We will continue to broaden earthquakes would have on our customers’ storage our lineup and aim to be a partner that provides We appreciate the participation of so many Daifuku cleaning is done each year in April before the flowers equipment to propose improvement solutions. The optimal systems for anti-seismic measures to our staff members yet again this year. Falling leaves on bloom. The participation of Daifuku is a great help accumulated know-how led to the development of customers. the walkways of the gorge over the year cause the due to the length of the walkways. Daifuku original products, and the breadth of our scenery to deteriorate and impede walks. The 9 Daifuku CSR Report 2014 Daifuku CSR Report 2014 10 E Bringing Ideas Together Engagement Bringing Ideas Together ▼ To ensure an open environment Hini Arata Kan Topics Welcoming our stakeholders with hospitality Together with our customers Together with our employees Receives the AUTO-ID System Special Invigorating employee communications Award using in-company SNS Seishin Reitoko Co., Ltd. Daifuku implemented an received a special award at in-company SNS with the the 15th AUTO-ID System aim of fostering active Awards for Japanʼs ﬁrst communications among freezing system using RFID employees by improvement for ﬁsh, for which Daifuku in information sharing or delivered an automated the formation of networks cold storage warehouse. beyond organizations. ComSeishin Reitoko had rebuilt munity sites relating to its processing plant which Daifuku's environmental had been damaged by the activities and brand have tsunami following the Great also been set up for interacEast Japan Earthquake. tion among employees. Number of visitors surpass 350,000 Hini Arata Kan, Daifukuʼs full-scale exhibition center for with 400 items in 150 categories of other logistics material handling and logistics technologies, opened vendors. The center welcomed its 350,000th visitor in twenty years ago in June 1994 with the idea of increasing September 2013. For shareholders and investors For shareholders and investors understanding of our businesses by seeing our products. Dedicated staﬀ members welcome guests with Hini Arata Kan tours for shareholders held Exhibit at the Tokyo Stock Exchange IR One of the largest of its kind in the world, Hini Arata Kan hospitality, guiding them through the center while Festa 2014 enables visitors to experience the latest system solutions, explaining logistics in an easy-to-understand way. On October 11, 2013, Daifuku Daifuku exhibited at the including material handling systems and equipment, along held its sixth Hini Arata Kan Tokyo Stock Exchange IR tour for shareholders. The (Investors Relations) Festa Expanding further in addition to Mega Solar tours shareholders received a tour of the material handling 2014 held at the Tokyo International Forum on February Visitors include a diverse range, such as customers members of our employees and local citizens. In addition, systems and equipment in the 21-22, 2014. We reported considering adopting material handling products, from April 2014, we started hosting tours of the Daifuku building and viewed the the steady progress of our logistics-related industry organizations and groups from Shiga Mega Solar as part of environmental education for Daifuku Shiga Mega Solar four-year business plan and overseas. We also oﬀer tours for shareholders, family local elementary and junior high school students. from a raised observation conducted active communistage. cation with individual investors. Together with our business partners Together with our business partners Management and Production Trends Seven excellent suppliers given Presentation held S.Q.D. Awards On May 29, 2014, Daifuku Daifuku set up a Supplier held the 2014 Management Quality Development and Production Trends (S.Q.D.) Award system Comment from Kaoru Morimoto President, Hiniaratakan Corporation Presentation, inviting 152 and annually awards business partners, including excellent suppliers with Undertaking new challenges in our twentieth anniversary manufacturers, trading its S.Q.D. Award. This companies and those year, category recomWe have received praise from many people, stating twentieth anniversary, 2014 will be a year of involved in processing, mendation awards were how they experienced how products can be used and appreciation and growth for us, as we continue to added in addition to indiinstallation and servicing. [Individual awards] deepened their understanding of the material practice “Hini Arata” * in new exhibits and aim to vidual awards, with seven handling equipment features with the easily We presented the current Urawa Engineering Services Corporation create a facility that everyone can enjoy while looking Tokairiken Co., Ltd., Numazawa Industry Co., Ltd. out of 294 companies understood explanations by the staff. As our towards the next twenty years. situation of our manage*see P.5 Company Creed [Category recommendations] ment and production as awarded. Ukai Co., Ltd., Nagoya Jushi Industry Co., Ltd., well as future trends. Kyodo Seiko Co., Ltd., Shimato Kogyo Co., Ltd. Daifuku CSR Report 2014 Daifuku CSR Report 2014 12 D To support an enriched society and convenient lifestyles, Innovating Through Our Technology Development Daifuku strives to be its customers’ best partner and Innovating Through Our Technology emphasizes the development of new systems and products. Realizing effective and accurate collection work to meet the increasing demand for individual delivery services Developed for Co-op and individual delivery services. High productivity applied in a wide range of industries The Japanese Consumers Cooperative Union (JCCU), a in a shorter amount of time. pick-to-light system pioneer in mail orders, was founded as a joint purchasing The pick-to-light eye-navi , Japanese Material Handling Society organization in the late 1960s. With the diversiﬁcation of incorporating the latest 24th Japan MH Prize progressive lifestyles and the rising concern with food technologies and devices, safety, its delivery services shifted from joint purchasing to was developed to match individual deliveries to the front doors of each family. As these needs. its distribution centers expect demand to rise even further, Masashige Iwata the need emerged for a highly productive picking system Assistant Manager, Development Group that is able to collect and ship products without mistakes Design Department, FA&DA Operations Rapid improvement in collection productivity With conventional pick-to-light systems, workers formed a individual zones instead of the overall conveyor and uses line in front of the product shelves and input the products the front pick system. These innovations and improvements into collection boxes passing by on the conveyor drastically improved the collection per man-hour according to the sequence stated on the display. The productivity* over the previous system by 1.5 times. product shelves had displays that showed the position and quantity of the products to be picked, and the conveyors carrying the collection boxes had ﬁxed displays that showed the appropriate collection box and quantity to be entered. Picking errors emerged due to the collection boxes and displays being out of sync. In addition, as the work is performed on one conveyor, if one worker takes too long picking products, the whole line has to be stopped, and other workers had to wait. For one customer, this waiting time reached up to 60% of the Front pick system collection work. Previously workers were in between the product shelves and collection box, forcing them to constantly turn around (left); by In order to resolve these issues, the eye-navi combines placing the collection box in front of the product shelves (right), the the collection box and the display. The system controls burden placed on the workers is lightened. Supporting better distribution efﬁciency with various solutions The eye-navi is a picking system suited for collection of a shopping. As the insuﬃsmall number of products at high frequencies. The Jungle ciency of labor from the Cart was developed for collecting a diverse number of declining birth rate and products with low shipment frequency. The system was aging society becomes a ﬁrst introduced at the Narita Set Center of Miyagi Co-op major problem, Daifuku aims (Miyagi Prefecture), which began operations in 2011, and to provide the best for each has been highly rated. customer and support Picking systems must constantly evolve with an increased distribution increasing amount of diverse purchasing styles including eﬃciency with a rich lineup individual deliveries, mail orders and online supermarket of solutions. Jungle Cart *Collection per man-hour productivity: collection number per hour of working time Loading display Total number of item types Comment from Jun Onodera Director, Narita Set Center, Miyagi Co-op Number of picks Leading to increased level of service for Co-op members Advance display By introducing the eye-navi and Jungle Carts, the improved service level. We have succeeded in collection productivity has improved, and we can now increasing the efficiency of Co-op’s individual delivery flexibly meet major increases in the types of items set operations to speedily provide safe and reliable food. handled. Expanding the product lineup extends the range of choice for Co-op members, leading to an eye-navi main unit display Daifuku CSR Report 2014 Daifuku CSR Report 2014 14 D Innovating Through Our Technology Development Innovating Through Our Technology Providing safety and reassurance to pharmacists Topics and patients by preventing prescription errors the automatic prescription checking system To retain the freshness of ﬁsh Clean, safe, and maintenance-free Automated frozen warehouses Wireless power supply solutions This AS/RS ﬂash freezes Preventing errors with Daifuku’s technology ﬁsh that are packed into cardboard boxes by size Dispensing pharmacies, which give out medicine based p h a r m a c i e s . T h e audit and stores them automatiupon prescriptions, must never make errors. But in fact determines whether cally into freezers at up to errors still occur, leading to serious cases where even lives prescriptions have been -35ºC to preserve their can be endangered. Daifuku developed the audit to dispensed accurately by freshness. This is the ﬁrst prevent human error from occurring by double checking pattern matching with use in the world of an We have developed a wireless power supply system picked medicines using technology. medicine images and automated warehouse to using HID non-contact power supply technology. The Prescriptions must be checked for any discrepancies checking weight. This ﬂash freeze ﬁsh to realize technology is widely used for charging batteries of between the prescription and the picked medicine. Making technology was realized with unmanned processing. forklifts and automatic guided vehicles (AGVs) or supplying power cable-free to moving transport sure there are no mistakes in the dispensing is ideal, but the know-how gained from equipment. since the dispensing is done by hand, checking becomes an material handling systems. Hisashi Taniguchi indispensable process. However, the pharmacists also Manager, Medical Solutions Group perform the checking; hence ensuring accuracy and FA&DA Operations lessening the burden of this task is a major issue for Flexibly changing conveying height High speed with improved cleaning and drying FALS (Flexible Assembly Leveling System) Gate-type car wash machine, Euros Reducing the stress of pharmacists. Further improving services to patients Released into the market in 2012, the audit is now being claiming to not having received their medication when the FALS lifts and lowers The Euros achieved used in 350 pharmacies throughout Japan as of the end of prescription was correctly dispensed. We will further automobile bodies to the improved cleaning and March 2014. By adopting the audit , the stress felt by improve its ease of use to bolster safety and peace of optimum height for drying performance by pharmacists of whether the correct medication has been mind in the medical ﬁeld. workers in automobile enhancing rear area drying dispensed has decreased, allowing them to also improve production assembly lines. and using a top brush that the quality of their primary treatment services, such as This removed the need for incorporates a highensuring that the patients take the medicine correctly. In them to reach or bend performance sensor. The addition, the audit has the function to save auditing down, thus greatly lowercleaning time of 85 secrecords, helping to prevent problems such as patients ing physical strain. It is also onds per car is the fastest eﬀectively raises the in the industry, while the accuracy of assembly for rail length is also the engines and other large industryʼs shortest at 7.8 parts. meters. Receives world’s ﬁrst international safety certiﬁcation Area Management System Daifuku developed the Area Management System as part of a project with the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry (METI) and the New Energy and Industrial Technology Development Organization (NEDO). The Comment from Shinya Kodama President, Shirokuma Pharmacy (Osaka Prefecture) system received the worldʼs ﬁrst ISO13482 accreditaAnxiety over forgetting to give out medication has been tion for personal care robots through the Japan Qualeliminated even when there is just one pharmacist ity Assurance Organization in February 2014. This system was developed to increase the safety of In actual fact a lot of dispensing is done by just one retain a record of the medicine prescribed for later high-speed vehicles (right photo), which moves at 200 person, creating anxiety over the high risk of dispensing confirmation, dispelling the anxiety of whether a meters per second, three times faster than traditional the wrong medicine. The audit can precisely check patient has received the right medication. It plays an vehicles. Ultra Wide Bands (UWB) keeps track of the prescriptions, where humans may miss something, and assuring and indispensable role. Locations of workers, forklifts and vehicles are determined by using UWB tags. Based on the gathered information, the Area location of workers and forklifts in distribution centers Management System controls the speeds of the vehicles. and then controls the speed of vehicles. Daifuku CSR Report 2014 Daifuku CSR Report 2014 G Taking advantage of our abundant technology and A Global Field of Action Global knowledge honed through expanding our business globally, A Global Field of Action we provide new value to people worldwide through consistently offering our customers the best solutions. Expanding our business as a global brand with sites in twenty countries and regions worldwide Customer SKECHERS USA Inc. Introducing a state-of-the-art material handling system that is expandable The Daifuku Group Network for future increases in product volume “I was involved from the kick-oﬀ of the project, and helped select the site and design the material handling system and building. The project was postponed for two years after we got the order, and we had diﬃculties in securing enough personnel. However, we were able to assemble a ﬁrm team to maintain a six month installation schedule. The customer praised our eﬀorts, and we are also satisﬁed with our work. We will focus our future eﬀorts on strengthening support capabilities and training human resources so we can continue to be a trusted partner to our customers. I hope to contribute to the expansion of our business by further strengthening Group collaboration.” Skechers, which designs, manufactures and sells shoes, began operations of a large-scale distribution center to handle all deliveries across the U.S. The material handling system it has adopted is expandable to handle future increases in the product volume. Wynright Corporation, a member of the Daifuku Group, Group company with a factory was involved as the integrator in engineering and installation. Group company Global branch Customer Macy’s, Inc. Greater efﬁciency and labor savings through automatic guided carts (AGC) “Since this was Macy's ﬁrst time using the SmartCart AGC in its warehouses, there was a number of challenges, from educating the customer about the equipment to delivering the system without interrupting the warehouseʼs shipping schedule. There were many diﬃculties, but the project was Capitalizing on the cooperation within the Daifuku Group to successfully completed. The SmartCart is superb in its functionality, safety and reliability. The advantages of the SmartCart are well matched to drive business in North America customers who are always looking towards eﬃciency. SmartCart sales have performed very well these last few years, and, as we predict even more Daifuku Webb Holding Company Wynright Corporation joined the Group growth in the future, we are working to further expand sales.” (DWHC) was established in 2011 in October 2013 to further solidify our with the aim of improving coordination position as an innovative material Macy’s, America’s largest department store, eﬀorts among Daifukuʼs U.S. businesses handling manufacturer. introduced five SmartCarts to its distribution and increasing the exchange of ideas, We aim to build a management center for furniture in 2009. The SmartCart products and management resources to platform that distances us ahead of efficiently conveys various load dimensions achieve greater success and better competitors by expanding and and sizes, leading to a large reduction in service to our customers. DWHC restructuring the Groupʼs North personnel. Jervis B. Webb Company, a oversees the business operations of American framework. We will continue Daifuku affiliate with a long track record in Daifuku America Corporation, Jervis B. to drive Daifukuʼs business in North AGVs in North America, constructed the Webb Company, Logan Teleﬂex, Inc. and America, where there is still much system. Elite Line Services, LLC. In addition, growth potential. Daifuku CSR Report 2014 Daifuku CSR Report 2014 18 G A Global Field of Action Global A Global Field of Action Customer Mahindra & Mahindra Ltd. Topics (M&M) Using AS/RS for temporary storage and sequencing of painted vehicles High commendation from Changshu, China Towards the development of industrial technology Receiving the Outstanding Company for Introducing the manufacturing factory for Work Safety Award semiconductors and ﬂat-panel displays systems “In India, where deliveries often fall behind schedule, the customers very much appreciated us being on time and for the ﬂawless execution. The automated On February 21, 2014, Taiwan Daifuku Co., Ltd. was storage and retrieval system (AS/RS) was highly regarded and the customers Daifuku (China) Automation selected for the Advanced Co., Ltd. received the 2013 Factory Tour sponsored by a are very satisﬁed with its success. Our technology is new to the Indian market Outstanding Company for subordinate oﬃce of so I ﬁnd it to be very exciting. I am involved in sales strategy and design, each Work Safety Award from the Taiwan's Ministry of Ecoof which has its challenges and rewards. With my reﬁned engineering and Changshu Administration of nomic Aﬀairs, and on May material handling knowledge and experience, I am striving to raise the proﬁle Work Safety. The companyʼs 30, 2014, members of 22 of Daifuku in the Indian market.” safety activities were highly companies visited the regarded, including weekly Tainan factory. Tours are risk prediction activities held for the industrial techM&M, an automobile manufacturer and patrols by the safety nology development of representative of India, introduced a painted committee. Taiwan and by recommendavehicle body buffer system using an AS/RS in tion of the secretariat chief. its Nashik plant in 2013. The system adjusts the shift discrepancies between the paint line and the assembly line and massively reduced the time from warehouse retrieval to entry into Contributing to the education of children Developing a robot with 3D technology the assembly line from a maximum thirty Jervis B. Webb Company holds FIRST LEGO Wynright receives Game Changer Award minutes down to just two minutes. League Scrimmage In October 2013, Group aﬃliate Wynright Corporation received the Game Changer Award from the Robotics Business Review Customer PT Indomaguro Tunas Unggul for its Robotic Truck (Indomaguro) The Jervis B. Webb Company, a member of the Daifuku Unloader. The self-guided Group, held a FIRST LEGO League Scrimmage on robot contributes to labor Constructing Indonesia’s ﬁrst automated cold storage warehouse, November 9, 2013, at its demonstration facility in savings, unloading stacked reducing personnel numbers and ensuring product temperature management Michigan, U.S.A. The mission of FIRST is to train young cargo regardless of the size people to be future science and technology leaders by by using 3D technology. “We were very honored to be involved in Indonesiaʼs ﬁrst automated cold developing their science, technological, engineering and storage warehouse project. Amongst an intense price competition, our unique mathematical abilities. automated system, proven track record, quality and experience were all highly regarded. Project members from Singapore, Indonesia and Japan participated from consulting to design, implementation and after-sales support, with everyone working together to lead to success. With these global projects, I Appearing at trade fairs worldwide Each year Daifuku exhibits at various industry trade fairs Showcasing Daifuku’s technological and across the globe to showcase its technological and believe our “edge,” or competitive advantage, comes from not just our development capabilities as well as its global readiness. technological aspects but also the best human to human experience, development capabilities interaction and support we provide to our customers.” Indomaguro, one of the largest seafood processors in Indonesia, introduced the country's first automated cold storage warehouse in its Jakarta factory in 2011. It stores seafood as well as fried potatoes and other products for major fast food outlets. The system contains six stacker cranes with a storage capacity of 14,144 pallets. Centralized control is handled Delhi, India Bangkok, Thailand Shanghai, China Atlanta, United States by an inventory management computer. India Warehousing Show 2013 The 10th Thailand International CeMAT ASIA 2013 MODEX 2014 Logistics Fair 2013 Daifuku CSR Report 2014 Daifuku CSR Report 2014 20 E Daifuku strives to lower its environmental impacts in every Initiatives for the Environment Environment aspect of its business activities and aims to exist in harmony Initiatives for the Environment with the natural environment and biodiversity. In addition, throug through our products, including the Eco-Products, we are contributing to the realization of a low-carbon society. A tour for experts and students Manufacturing products with the desire to contribute to people, active in the in the environmental ﬁeld society and the environment During the tour, we guided the guests through various facilities and explained our initiatives to reduce waste, preserve the Eco-Tour of Shiga Works environment, and utilize natural energy. Waste is sorted in each building before being collected in Th e re c yc lin g ra t e fo r t h e Sh ig a W o rks is 9 7 .3 %. the waste station. Items that can be recycled, such as copper or waste plastic, are sold to recycling contractors; the rest is disposed of properly. We explained how photo panels show accurate sorting and how waste amounts for each department are determined, with costs for disposal borne by each department, raising waste reduction awareness. Also, in addition to Daifuku Shiga Mega Solar, the use of reusable cartons to reduce packaging materials, we in operation since November 2013 introduced our initiatives to reduce environmental impacts of ■ Site Area: 52,000㎡ ■ Power output: 4,438 kW transportation by stacking products for shipping to improve ■ Number of panels: 17,752 ■ Annual output: 4.3 million kWh loading eﬃciency and recycling cooking oil into biodiesel fuel. We then showed our three eﬄuent treatment facilities and oil barriers to prevent contamination. The eﬄuent treatment Ph o t o s m a ke it e a s ie r t o has standards ten times more severe than the water quality a c c u ra t e ly s e p a ra t e w a s t e ! standards for Shiga Prefecture, set from our determination to never release environmental pollutants. We constructed a mega solar power generation facility and use solar-powered lampposts to promote the use of natural energy. Bulletin board showing photos on how to separate waste 3 0 0 t o n s o f w a t e r is p ro c e s s e d e a c h d a y. I s e e t h a t s t a c kin g m e t h o d s a re s e t fo r e a c h p ro d u c t , e m p h a s izin g lo a d in g e c ie n c y. Eﬄuent treatment facility Stacking of products for shipping A verdant industrial park located in a vast 1.2 million square meter grounds As part of its plans to build an industrial park, Daifuku acquired a vast area of land covering 1.2 million square meters in 1970. While undertaking the building of our factories, we also developed green areas, including an artiﬁcial lake and walkways. Currently Shiga Works is the Takuya Takahashi Taichi Yoshihara Yui Ishimori Fumie Murase Fu Kayoko Kameda (Ph. D.) world's largest material handling systems and devices Associate Professor E i t lM Environmental Management Managem Ofﬁ Ofﬁce Lake Biwa Museum School of Environmental Science School of Environmental Science, University y of Shiga g Prefecture Shiga Prefecture production site, with eleven factories. University of Shiga Prefecture Members of a unique student organization in Japan that aims at local local contributions and Research themed on ecosystem In November 2013 a new mega solar power plant was p l pol Research themes include the political self-development lf d l tbby promotingti ti iti to activities t reduce d environmental i t impact, such as functions and management, primarily G re e n a re a s c o ve r o ve r economy of corporate environmental energy and resource savings, inside and outside the university. focused on birds. Has worked as a constructed. The clean power produced will be supplied management, forestry management and part-time lecturer at Shiga University 3 0 % o f t h e g ro u n d s . policies. Also makes valuable efforts to and the University of Shiga Prefecture. to residences through a local electric company. spread new policy methods such as forestry veriﬁcation. Daifuku CSR Report 2014 Daifuku CSR Report 2014 E Initiatives for the Environment Environment Initiatives for the Environment Aiming for harmony of manufacturing and biodiversity W e h a ve n o t u s e d h e rb ic id e s The biodiversity inhabiting our grounds is another appealing with organizations with specialized knowledge. We aim to in o ve r 4 0 ye a rs . point about our Works. Feeling that correctly grasping the exist in harmony with diverse wildlife and an abundant natural situation was essential to the preservation of biodiversity, in environment. 2013 we requested a specialized agency to survey the grounds. The results of the ecological survey conducted over a year showed that a large number of native species inhabit our grounds. These include many species threatened with extinction, such as the peregrine falcon, Japanese clouded salamander, golden orchid, and the Trigomphus ogumai (a Peregrine falcon Japanese clouded Golden orchids Trigomphus type of dragonﬂy), with 49 species alone in the Red List of salamander ogumai endangered wild species. A bird of prey located A small salamander A perennial of the A species of dragonat the apex of the about 10cm long orchid variety that ﬂy that lives in old In the future, we intend to check whether attempts to ecosystem. that lays its eggs in blossoms with yellow ponds or swamps preserve biodiversity are successful through regular marshes or water ﬂowers from April to between plains and I n e ve r e xp e c t e d s o m u c h g re e n e ry channels from June hills in s id e fa c t o ry g ro u n d s ! observation and other activities, and consider cooperating February to March Concluding the tour A discussion meeting was held with the chief oﬃcer Various habitats, including meadows and ponds, extend over the grounds of the Shiga Works. Comments and suggestions from the students Strengthening cooperation with the local I was impressed to see the level of dedication in the waste sorting Health promotion events held in the community and communications charts with photos that were on display and how if something not abundant nature I felt strongly your stance towards preserving the on the chart was found, a photo would be taken and, after environment. I hope to see even greater efforts to consulting with a supervisor, the information would be put into the After viewing the facilities, the next stop was Yasuragi* Road, strengthen cooperation with the local community prepared database. (T. Yoshihara) which runs along the Yasuragi Pond. The pathway winds and enhance your communication. In addition, I am I hope to see greater progress with information communication through the greenery, at one point leading down to the through the connections with your green procurement network, looking forward to seeing products imbued water's edge. The group relaxedly enjoyed the pleasant walk with this ecological thinking being produced and an increased level of communication to influence other along the pathway. in great numbers by the Shiga Works. companies as well. (Y. Ishimori) The Yasuragi Road runs for 720 meters, and employees can Being surrounded by nature, sometimes we don't recognize its often be seen exercising or taking walks after lunch. Walking brilliance. I think knowingly creating opportunities for employees events to improve health are also held. Such events were held and local citizens to come into contact with nature and to reaffirm in May and September 2013, with 237 employees participating Zoning is effective to promote the beauty of nature might lead to an improved awareness regarding environmental preservation. (F. Murase) by not just walking but also using bamboo stilts and jump harmonious coexistence ropes. pine forest which people donʼt often enter, but we have plans I was surprised by how small the amount of waste The Shiga Works has another artiﬁcial lake, called the to build a walkway to allow people to easily come into was despite the huge grounds. I think that in the Shakunage (Rhododendron) Pond. On the day of the tour, the contact with nature, while leaving the natural environment future it might be a good idea to gradually adopt rhododendrons had large pink ﬂower blossoms as if they were untouched. The university students suggested getting local zoning matched to the wildlife inhabiting the welcoming the guests. Currently the pond is surrounded by a elementary school children to help with clearing underbrush. environment, such as having a park close to the * Yasuragi: A Japanese word meaning comfort and relaxation buildings, a forest filled with nature, and areas largely left to grow naturally. Ha vin g b u s h e s , s h a llo w s a n d a q u a t ic p la n t s w ill m a ke a n e n viro n m e n t t h a t is e a s ie r fo r c re a t u re s t o live in . Aiming at being a company open to the local community With the completion of the mega solar power plant, tours for promote eco-friendly activities throughout the Group to local elementary school and junior high school students began encourage trustworthy manufacturing toward the realization from April 2014. In addition, we are planning nature tours of a sustainable society. and other activities. Our aim is to be a company that is open to the local community by enhancing our communication level and further promoting interaction, and will incorporate Takashi Hiramoto Th e ra re Te rp n o s ia va c u a c ic a d a a re your various suggestions into our business activities. Director and Managing Ofﬁcer p re s e n t in la rg e n u m b e rs h e re . Furthermore, with the Shiga Works at the center, we will Chief Ofﬁcer of Shiga Works Rhododendrons are the symbol of Through the red pines surrounding An important habitat for animals and the local Hino Town the pond plants Daifuku CSR Report 2014 Daifuku CSR Report 2014 E In ﬁscal 2013, the year ending March 31, 2014, we achieved our goals Initiatives for the Environment Environment in nearly every item for the ﬁrst year of the medium-term Initiatives for the Environment environmental action plan (2013-2016) set for the ﬁrst half of the time remaining in the Environmental Vision 2020. Fiscal 2013 environmental action plans and results Topics Evaluation standards 〇: Achieved △: Not achieved due to external factors ×: Not achieved ◆Promoting environment-conscious business operations Global warming countermeasures Resource saving Exhibiting environmentally friendly products Ecological efforts highly rated 【Carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions from business activities】 【Waste generation】 and services Winning the Eco-Ofﬁce Award Scope: Japan (factories and oﬃces) / control index: units of CO2 emissions compared to FY2005 Scope: Japan (factories and oﬃces) / control index: units of waste generated compared to FY2005 Biwako Business Messe 2013 CO 2 emissions ■Total CO2 emissions Total waste generation Final disposal Waste generated per unit of net sales: FY2005 = 100 Target Result Waste generated per unit of net sales: FY2005 = 100 The Daifuku Group exhib(t ) (%) (t-CO2) (%) Reduce by 7,000 120 Target Result ited at the Biwako Business 30,000 120 100.0 97.6 25,000 100.0 78.2 80.4 100 18 % or more 35％ 6,000 5,000 95.4 100 80 Reduce to Messe 2013, held on 20,000 80 October 24-26, 2013. In 15,000 25,665 60 Grade：〇 4,000 3,000 5,696 4,651 4,427 60 40 77% or less 95.4％ addition to showcasing 10,000 40 2,000 16,788 16,774 1,000 393 20 environmentally freindly 5,000 20 ■Per unit of net sales 52 32 0 0 0 0 Grade：× products and services, such Target Result 2005 2012 2013 (FY) 2005 2012 2013 (FY) as solar power systems, On March 11, 2014, the Shiga Works received the Reduce to 【Waste recycling rate】 the booth also introduced Eco-Oﬃce Award from the Union of Kansai 79% 80.4 ％ Scope: Japan (factories and oﬃces) / control index: recycling rate of waste the mega solar facility at Governments. Daifuku was commended for its or less Achieve the Shiga Works and eﬀorts Eco-Action program, involving employee participation, Grade：△ Target 96% or more Result 97.2％ Grade：〇 to preserve biodiversity. and other original eﬀorts such as composting of organic 【CO2 emissions from transportation】 garbage and turning waste food oil into biodiesel fuel. Scope: Japan (product transport) / control index: units of CO2 emissions compared to FY2005 【Water used】 Scope: Japan (factories and oﬃces) / control index: units of water used compared to FY2005 CO 2 emissions Water used Waste generated per unit of net sales: FY2005 = 100 Waste generated per unit of net sales: FY2005 = 100 (t-CO2) (%) (t ) (%) 6,000 120 Target Result 350,000 140 Target Result Employees feel environmental contributions on a personal level 100.0 300,000 120 81.5 100 100.0 Daifuku Eco-Action Reduce to 250,000 100 4,000 66.9 80 66.3 Reduce to 2,000 4,829 60 40 85% or less 66.9％ 200,000 150,000 310,797 57.6 80 60 64 % 57.6％ The Daifuku Eco-Action program gives points for 3,296 2,627 100,000 172,376 145,404 40 or less environmental activities by employees. Using Eco-Action 20 50,000 20 0 0 Grade：〇 0 0 Grade：〇 activities (left: ﬁshing non-native ﬁsh species; right: cutting 2005 2012 2013 (FY) 2005 2012 2013 (FY) reeds) in each region, in ﬁscal 2013, 1,697 employees participated in volunteer activities or environmental Preserving biodiversity Scope: Japan (factories and oﬃces) Green procurement Scope: Japan (factories and oﬃces) learning. In addition, an amount equivalent to the total Target Result points gained by the employees is contributed to local Target Result ・Conduct biodiversity survey and ・Conducted biodiversity survey and create preservation plan for Shiga Works created preservation plan for Shiga Works Add to supplier Added to supplier environmental preservation, and donations were made to ・Raise awareness via employee training ・Raised awareness via various events self-assessment standards self-assessment standards the Shiga Prefectural Lake Biwa Museum. Grade：〇 Grade：〇 Furthermore, as a new initiative, carbon oﬀsetting was introduced with the aim for contributing to CO2 emission reduction. By oﬀsetting the CO2 emitted from opening the Hini Arata Kan and operating its shuttle buses, the ◆Expand environmentally friendly products and services ◆Enhancing the foundation for environmental management exhibition center and shuttle buses operate CO2-free. Certiﬁcation of Daifuku Eco-Products Scope: Global Environmental education Scope: Global Target Result Target Result Participation in Eco-Action Participation in Eco-Action Certiﬁcation of Certiﬁcation of 15 models Grade：〇 1,000 people or more 1,697 people 14 or more models Certiﬁcation of eight new products Grade：〇 Contribution to CO2 reduction Scope: Global Daifuku Eco-Products In ﬁscal 2013, eight products were newly certiﬁed under the Environmental management structure Scope: Global Daifuku Eco-Products Certiﬁcation Program, Daifukuʼs Target Result Target Result Completed assessment of in-house environmental performance evaluation and ・Conduct a survey on the feasibility of 22,593 16,762 reducing environmental impact global sites and set targets certiﬁcation system. This brings the total of certiﬁed tons of CO2 or more tons of CO2 Grade：× Grade：〇 ・Determine situations at global sites and set targets products to 15. ［Newly certiﬁed products ］ Daifuku Eco-Action achieved the target employee set ﬁgure due to lower sales of the target products. On the Mini load AS/RS Shuttle Rack participation by 1.5 times, setting a foundation toward other hand, in our manufacturing facilities there were Transport system Motor Roller Conveyor becoming widespread. departments where production reform activities contributed Clean room transport and storage system MMHS “Waste generation,” which was not achieved, includes both to proﬁt and reducing environmental impact. In terms Cleanroom overhead monorail system Clean Space Carrier many short-term large projects which lowered production of development as well, a new, strict inspection led to eight Power assisting system ECO POWER ASSIST eﬃciency. “Contribution to reduction of CO 2 ,” aimed at products being certiﬁed as Daifuku Eco-Products, forming Clean Space Carrier Gate-type car wash machine Euros reducing CO2 from customer facilities, failed to reach the elements that can achieve the target for the next year. Drive-through car wash machines Twinfect Force *Detailed data is given on the website: www.daifuku.com/csr/environment/index.html Shuttle Rack Twinthru Arteno Daifuku CSR Report 2014 Daifuku CSR Report 2014 To ensure sound management practices and transparency, To be a Trustworthy Company CSR Management the Daifuku Group strives to enhance its corporate To be a Trustworthy Company governance framework, promote CSR activities and strengthen its risk management. Daifuku’s CSR CSR Action Plan The Daifuku Group believes that the basic principles of CSR are to build a symbiotic relationship with its Initiative FY2014 -2016 targets Description of initiatives stakeholders and to practice the Groupʼs Corporate Policies Structure through its corporate activities. ● Maintain and improve product quality to satisfy the customer needs Provide high quality Improve product quality ① products and services and services ● Reduce product defects ● Improve customer satisfaction by ensuring a full support structure Strengthen the risk ● Promote and strengthen of information security measures Strengthen risk A company that supports society and the future” ② management management structure Enhance corporate governance ● Continue ● Enhance expansion of the Business Continuity Management (BCM) system transparency and monitoring of management To achieve this desire, we are engaging in the themes outlined below. Nurture relationships of Promote CSR procurement ● Form partnerships with suppliers and share information on CSR ③ trust with our suppliers in the supply chain ● Construct mechanisms for thorough policies concerning fair procurement ● Determine current considerations for human rights throughout the Group ● Provide high quality products ● Strengthen risk management Protect human rights ● Ensure knowledge throughout the Group of internal policies on human rights and services ● Respect human dignity ● Nurture relationships of trust Six (human rights, labor practices, Develop workplace environments that are easy to work in ● Conduct ● Promote surveys of employee awareness work-life balance with our suppliers initiatives safety, health) ● Expand employment of persons with disabilities Respect for human ● Create good relations with ● Contribute to the environment Promote diversity ● Employment of the elderly dignity ● Facilitate an environment for women to thrive in communities through corporate activities ④ (human rights, ● Promote global human resources labor practices, safety, health) Ensure health management ● Expand health and safety training and safety of our employees ● Minimize (eliminate) industrial accidents and other major accidents and employees of our ● Construct a global safety and hygiene management structure Customers partner companies ● Promote mental and physical health Employees ● Train global business leaders Suppliers Personnel training ● Construct and maintain a training system to help develop the skills of employees Create good relations Encourage communication and ● Formulate a policy for social contributions of the Group Shareholders ⑤ with communities activities that contribute to society ● Conduct regular dialog with nearby communities Communities Company Creed and ● Minimize environmental impact through energy and resource savings Investors Promote environmentally ● Conduct activities to preserve biodiversity friendly business operations Management ● Promote green procurement in the supply chain Philosophy Contribute to the ⑥ environmental through Increase the number of eco-friendly ● Expand the number of certiﬁed Daifuku Eco-Products Brand Proposition corporate activities products and services ● Contribute to reducing CO2 in products and services Enhance the foundations for ● Engender the environmental mindsets of employees through trainings environmental management ● Construct a global environmental management structure Brand Message Daifuku Corporate Policies Structure Joining the United Nations Global Compact sustainable growth as responsible members of society. Over 12,000 companies and organizations worldwide have In April 2014, Daifuku signed a commitcommitted to participate. In addition to undertaking CSR activities throughout the further promoting CSR activities and aim to comply with ment to join the United Nations Global For more information, visit: http://www.unglobalcompact.org Group, we have formulated our midto long-term policy, social demand for disclosure of non-ﬁnancial information Compact (UNGC), which is made up of Daifukuʼs CSR, and concrete measures for in our CSR in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) ten principles on human rights, labor, the Action Plan; having clearly laid out a vision, we are G4 international guidelines. environment, anti-corruption. The commitment is a declaration of our Daifuku s CSR CSR Action Plan support of UNGC initiatives and is part of ● A comprehensive and long-term policy that concisely ● Medium-term plan that sets targets in line with the six captures our views on CSR initiatives and deﬁnes concrete initiatives our CSR eﬀorts, having been brought about by a demand ● Speciﬁes the six initiatives and declares the implementation ● Discloses details and results of initiatives for each ﬁscal year for global information disclosure of ESG (environment, of our Corporate Policies Structure in corporate activities as in the CSR report and website social, governance) activities. we coexistence with our stakeholders The UNGC is an initiative for corporations to voluntarily Daifukuʼs president (left) and Toshio Arima, Representative Director of the participate in creating a global framework to achieve Global Compact Japan Network Daifuku CSR Report 2014 Daifuku CSR Report 2014 28 To be a Trustworthy Company Third-party opinion Corporate Governance Objective View of the CSR Report Basic approach to corporate governance introduced mechanisms for our employees located outside of Japan to contact. Keisuke Takegahara into the EDGE structural element, giving a framework to the Daifuku is fulﬁlling its CSR based on its Management In May 2013 we distributed a brand book, our brand , General Manager, report and strengthening its originality. Philosophy of providing the best solutions to beneﬁt the which expresses our convictions towards the DAIFUKU Environmental Initiative and The full contents of the special features introduce a Corporate Social Responsibilityglobal markets and the development of society; and brand, our Company Creed, Management Philosophy, and Support Department, diverse set of CSR activities for each theme, leaving a great focusing on healthy, growth-driven global management Corporate Code of Conduct, to all our employees. It Development Bank of Japan Inc. impression. The contribution to customersʼ business under a diverse and positive corporate culture. Corporate has been prepared in Japanese, English, Chinese continuity through the System Support Center and governance is the platform supporting the realization of (traditional and simpliﬁed), technologies, such as the tremor-absorbing racks, and the this mission, and we ceaselessly strive to develop and Korean, Thai, German, The CSR Report 2014 clearly provision of social beneﬁts focused on a declining birth rate improve our governance structure. Daifukuʼs Board of French and Spanish, with follows the new direction set and aging population with pick-to-light systems show Directors includes two outside directors and its Board of the aim to heighten brand forth in last yearʼs edition, on the Daifukuʼs strengths in a new light, while the report on global Corporate Auditors, comprised of ﬁve corporate auditors, and CSR awareness occasion of the formulation of business activities also informs readers of how such activities includes three outside corporate auditors, to ensure a throughout our entire the four-year business plan. The are in practice worldwide. On top of this, the uniqueness of solid corporate governance framework. Group. message from the President has been changed into a dialog Daifuku stands out visually through the impressive Hini Arata format, incorporating an external perspective while Kan and the Shiga Works. Both are good examples that Corporate governance structure Risk management structure presenting Daifukuʼs CSR. The diverse undertakings found in embody the core of Daifukuʼs CSR in contributing to society the special features was given precise detail, such as the through company operations and valuing the connections Regular meetings of the Board of Directors are held every To address risks judged to have a large impact on the combination with “EDGE,” a part of your brand message between people. month, and extraordinary meetings of the Board of Groupʼs businesses, we have appointed a Chief Risk Oﬃcer Always an Edge Ahead, showing ingenuity and accurately In addition, the setting of new midand long-term targets, Directors are held as necessary. With the introduction of (CRO) to oversee the Business Continuity Plan (BCP) conveying Daifukuʼs vital CSR eﬀorts to the reader. based on the Corporate Policies Structure presented in the corporate oﬃcer system, regular meetings of oﬃcers Promotion Division and Corporate Social Responsibility What strikes me is the innovation in the composition. The Daifukuʼs CSR, and the accompanying Action Plan, is a vital was established, with directors, corporate oﬃcers and Division, which formulate and promote countermeasures. philosophy is stated in the opening dialog, the extensive foundation in taking the next step in an ongoing process. full-time corporate auditors in attendance and taking part Activities conducted include various countermeasures for special features show the philosophy in action, and the CSR I look forward to seeing how you maintain your in deliberations. In addition, a Management Advisory earthquakes, wind or ﬂood damage, thunder, ﬁre, and new management framework that supports the series of activities relationship of coexistence with stakeholders, such as Meeting has been established, composed of all the strains of inﬂuenza. is located at the conclusion. This three part structure disclosing the process whereby the six initiatives are decided representative directors, to discuss key themes in In ﬁscal 2013, we expanded stocked supplies for strengthens the consistency of the reportʼs contents and, or setting key performance indicators. Also, I would like to management and give recommendations to the Board of disasters to include all major sites in Japan. We have also coupled with the innovations in the layout, make the overall see a focus on Daifukuʼs strengths in environmental Directors. With the attendance of corporate auditors and conducted surveys at aﬃliates in Thailand and China to report very easy to read. Human resources and the contributions through its products. I look forward to seeing gaining the opinions of related directors or external assess risks and share information. We will further environment, two main elements supporting Daifukuʼs CSR, even further progress of your CSR Report as an excellent specialists as required, it is convened by the president as enhance our Business Continuity Management (BCM) are combined in the special features and incorporated dialog tool for diverse stakeholders. necessary. In addition, Board of Corporate Auditor throughout the entire Group. meetings are held by the corporate auditors to audit inventory assets and other auditing activities. Promoting environmental management ［ Fiscal 2013 Results］ ▼ Response to the third-party opinion The regular meetings of the Board of Directors and oﬃcers To fulﬁll our environmental responsibilities to the next meetings were held twelve times, extraordinary meetings of generation as a member of the global society, Daifuku has Mr. Takegahara, thank you for giving us your Works, helping to increase its objectivity and the Board of Directors six times, Management Advisory formulated its Environmental Vision 2020 stating the valuable opinion. making it easier to understand. I am very glad Meetings six times, and meetings of the Board of Corporate Group's vision and is striving to achieve these targets. We Daifuku has striven to contribute to the Mr. Takegahara noticed the eﬀorts made in Auditors six times will contribute to our customers, society and the development of industry through its material the reportʼs composition. The individual preservation of the global environment by giving handling systems by providing a wide range themes also received praise in the diverse Compliance structure consideration to the environment in all our business of solutions based on its accumulation of contents of our CSR activities. activities and providing material handling systems with technologies and know-how. In June 2014, Going forward we will put the newly formuA Compliance Committee, comprised of all directors, was low environmental impact. We have also established an we formulated Daifukuʼs CSR and its concrete lated policies and measures into practice and established, with the president acting as chairman, to Environmental Enhancement Management Committee to measures in the CSR Action Plan to embody communicate the status and results. Regardsupervise legal compliance, fairness and ethics in put this vision into practice through promoting policies. our midto long-term policies, and will further ing environmental contributions, we will corporate activities. In addition, we provide hotlines to We will further invigorate environmental activities Shuichi Honda promote our CSR activities. enhance the communication of information our Legal Department to ﬁeld questions or concerns throughout the Group towards the construction of a Director and Senior CSR Report 2014 incorporates many perthrough our corporate websites and other global environmental management. Executive Managing Oﬃcer, concerning compliance and an outside consultative oﬃce spectives from people outside the company mediums, further deepening communication General Manager of directly linking to our outside counsel. We have also Corporate Aﬀairs Operations through dialogs and the tour of the Shiga with our stakeholders. Daifuku CSR Report 2014 Daifuku CSR Report 2014
