Date: April 25, 2015 H.E. Ban Ki-moon Secretary-General United Nations New York, NY 10017 USA Dear Mr. Secretary-General, I am pleased to confirm that Sakhi Babar Logistic and Supply Company supports the ten principles of the Global Compact on human rights, labour, environment and anticorruption. With this communication, we express our intent to implement those principles. We are committed to making the Global Compact and its principles part of the strategy, culture and day-to-day operations of our company, and to engaging in collaborative projects which advance the broader development goals of the United Nations, particularly the Millennium Development Goals. Sakhi Babar Logistic and Supply Company will make a clear statement of this commitment to our stakeholders and the general public. We recognize that a key requirement for participation in the Global Compact is the annual submission of a Communication on Progress (COP) that describes our company’s efforts to implement the ten principles. We support public accountability and transparency, and therefore commit to report on progress within one year of joining the Global Compact, and annually thereafter according to the Global Compact COP policy. This includes:  A statement signed by the chief executive expressing continued support for the Global Compact and renewing our ongoing commitment to the initiative and its principles. This is separate from our initial letter of commitment to join the Global Compact.  A description of practical actions (i.e., disclosure of any relevant policies, procedures, activities) that the company has taken (or plans to undertake) to implement the Global Compact principles in each of the four issue areas (human rights, labour, environment, anti-corruption).  A measurement of outcomes (i.e., the degree to which targets/performance indicators were met, or other qualitative or quantitative measurements of results). Sincerely yours, Signature: Mr. Hafiz Ali Ahmad President-SBLSC Address: Office#: 3, Ayubi Market Shah Zaman watt, Kandahar Afghanistan Email: sakhibabar.logistics@yahoo.com / sakhibabar.logistics@hotmail.com Contact Number: +937-9910-1039 / +933-0200-3391
