UN Global Compact Communicating on Progress 2014 – 2015 23 September 2015 Page 1 of 5 “A message from the Directors” Dear Sirs, Our COP report for this year shows how our company continued to make progress in certain areas. Our company continued to abide by the local and international regulations when it comes to human rights and labour issues. We have also continued to engage with our local community to support their healthcare causes. However, no progress has been made on anti-corruption and environmental issues. This is mainly due to the daily challenges that our company is facing in to sustain its operation amidst of a humanitarian crisis that is described by the UNHCR as the worst ever since WWII. Our practical experience informs that abiding by such conditions under such crisis is to be considered as a luxury. The anti-corruption incident that we highlight in this report, which also involved a UN affiliated agency, could provide an example of how operating under such conditions becomes pragmatic rather than idealistic. We believe that our commitment to GC principals is reflected in our continued commitment to all our stakeholders. Our company has kept the same employment capacity during the crisis. We have increased our salaries in an attempt to compensate the high level of inflation in our economy. We have enhanced our compensation schemes to give more incentives and hope to our employees. Although these actions helped the majority of our employees to stay in the country, but many still opted to migrate or to seek an asylum status in Europe. Our company sustained its commitment to its suppliers by continuing to train our team to the standards that are set by the manufacturers. We have also kept our commitment towards our clients by maintaining the same level of after sales services. We take this opportunity to submit our COP for 2014-2015 and to renew our commitment to the initiatives and its principals for the year to come. Sincerely Yours, Karim Tabah Samer Al Nachawati Director Director Page 2 of 5 I: Description of practical Action: A: Human Rights: Principle 1: “Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights”  Practical Actions: o Our company continued to register all our employees with the social insurance association according to their actual salaries that are being paid to them o Our company continued to pay taxes to the ministry of finance on timely manner and in accordance to the actual salaries that are being paid to the employees o Our company continued to abide with the labor law especially when it comes to: working hours, public holidays, daily break, overtime compensation, and end of contracts notices and compensations. Moreover, our company tolerated the absence from work of some employees that was due to security concerns or forced absence. In most of the cases, salaries were paid to the employees without any deductions. o Our company is still following highly transparent measures with its customers by providing detailed description of the products and services that are going to be performed o Our company continued to provide products and services (at cost) to two charity hospitals in our local community o Our company is strengthening the relationship with international organizations working in Syria by offering them quality services Principle 2: Businesses should make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses  Practical Actions: o Our company is continuing to abide with all the requirement of the Syrian law when it comes to the human rights. However, no assessment or explicit internal policies were put in place to address this important issue. B: Labour: Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining.  Practical Actions: o Our employees are free to join any professional organization, syndicate or trade union without being subjective to any possible discrimination and prejudice Page 3 of 5 o Our company informed the local community and media our company's endorsement of the UN Global Compact and our intention to respect its provisions, including those on fundamental workers' rights Principle 4: Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour:  Practical Actions: o Our company does not benefit from forced labour noting that this issue is not common in our area of operation as well as in our industry Principle 5: Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour.  Practical Actions: o We adhere to minimum age provisions of national labour laws and regulations. We exercise influence on subcontractors, suppliers and other business affiliates to combat child labour. We use adequate and verifiable mechanisms for age verification in recruitment procedures. Principle 6: “Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation”  Practical Actions: o All recruitments are being based on previously set criteria that clearly indicate the skills and qualifications of the candidates. Such criteria does not include implicitly or explicitly any requirements that relate to genre, age, religion or belief. o Our company has a clear orientation programmes for each new recruit aiming at helping them to understand the work environment as well as their rights and responsibilities. o Our company conducts internal technical training to provide technical knowhow of the products and services that are being offered by our company. Our company sends our employees for technical training abroad in order to increase their product specific know-how. The selection criteria for each of these trainings are widely made available to all the employees. C: Environment: Principle 9: Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies.”  Practical Actions: o Our company is promoting the use of Medical Waste treatment units at Syrian hospitals. However, the effect of the current crisis is making such requirement as less important since the focus now is on providing more basic health care services. Our company is also promoting the use of water treatment units when it comes to hemodialysis units. Page 4 of 5 D: Anticorruption: Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Practical Actions: Our company observed a corrupted procurement conduct by a leading UN affiliated organization operating in Syria. Our company sent written complains to this UN affiliated organization explaining this misconduct and how it can lead to a monopolistic behavior on the longer-run. The organization provided a detailed technical feedback that justifies the procurement procedure, but failed to clarify the obvious implicit corruption associated with this act. Our company could not take this action any further because: o We are not in a position to fully-judge the procurement procedures of UN agencies o We acknowledge the outstanding effort that this organization is offering to the Syrian people in general. Moreover, we are aware of pressures that such agencies could face when operating in crisis conditions. Such conditions could force the UN officials to tolerate certain misconducts in order to be able to achieve their main objectives. We therefore decided to deal with this matter in a pragmatic way by looking at the bigger picture, rather than on focusing on the micro misconduct that affected us II: Measurement of outcomes: The following table identifies the progress that have been made on targets that were pledged in the previous report. Issue Areas Principles Pledged outcome Achievement 20142015 Human Principle 1 Engage with at least one NGO 100% within our community Rights Principle 2 Developing clear human rights 0% policies Labour Principle 3 Inform the media of our 100% engagement with GC Principle 6 Preparing a study of the 0% improvement that can be made at the work place to make it more disabled friendly Environment Principle 7 Health and environment code 100% of conduct development Anti Principle 10 Anti-corruption policy 20% corruption development Page 5 of 5
