UN Global Compact Communication on Progress (CoP) and Sustainability Programme 2015 Boosting the Sustainable City TABLE OF CONTENTS 1 Foreword by CEO Martin Krajcsir 3 Sustainability Programme 2015 Climate and environment Services of general interest and customers Employees Social environment Organisation 23 UN Global Compact Communication on Progress IMPRINT PUBLISHED BY Wiener Stadtwerke Holding AG Thomas-Klestil-Platz 14 A-1030 Vienna Isabella Kossina Group Sustainability Officer Telephone: +43 (0)1 531 23-74090 isabella.kossina@wienerstadtwerke.at nachhaltigkeit.wienerstadtwerke.at wienerstadtwerke.at TYPESETTING AND PRINTING Druckerei Lischkar, Vienna Printed on environmentally friendly office paper DESIGN, LAYOUT AND CONCEPT CIDCOM Werbeagentur GmbH, Vienna FOREWORD BY CEO MARTIN KRAJCSIR Dear Reader presentation of our targets and measures relating to climate and environmental protecWiener Stadtwerke is THE company for tion, essential public services, the interests municipal sustainability and therefore a of our employees and other important susguarantee for a high quality of life in Vienna. tainability issues. In the course of the annual Wiener Stadtwerke is wholly owned by the update and review of the sustainability proCity of Vienna. We are one of the largest gramme, we provide information about the employers in Austria and a comprehensive status of the respective projects and objecprovider of essential public services to the tives as well as about new sustainability inipopulation of Vienna and our customers in tiatives at our company. It is our aim to docuthe surrounding area. ment this with a high degree of transparency and clarity, which is why we always publish Meeting our corporate social responsibilthe programme. ity and achieving commercial success for the company are our top priorities. For this Complying with the ten principles of the UN reason, our core corporate strategy and Global Compact constitutes an important operational management practices take into and fixed component of our sustainability account commercial, environmental, social programme (see page 19). Our Communiand ethical concerns as well as human rights cation on Progress for 2014 follows on from and consumer issues. We have committed the updated sustainability programme and ourselves to the path of sustainability. This makes reference to the corresponding targets is why we joined the UN Global Compact and measures. already in 2008 given that we share the principles of the United Nations in respect I would like to take this opportunity to of human rights, working standards, enviexpress my gratitude to all the sustainability ronmental protection and anti-corruption. officers in the Wiener Stadtwerke Group and Through our membership of the UN Global the numerous experts on the various subject Compact, we help to promote compliance areas. It is only through their dedicated coopwith these fundamental economic, envieration that we are able to provide a compreronmental and social principles around the hensive overview of the performance of our world. In our Communication on Progress for publicly owned sustainability group. The 2014, we document that we take this self-imsuccessful implementation of our targets and posed obligation very seriously. measures is a major part of the reason why the city of Vienna has been named ‘the most Sustainability has been an integral element of liveable city in the world’ for the past six years our Group strategy for many years now. As running. part of our approach to managing the company, we use our sustainability programme, Martin Krajcsir among other aspects, which is adopted CEO of Wiener Stadtwerke Holding AG by the highest body of our sustainability management, the Sustainability Directorate. This programme comprises a comprehensive 1 When I leave in the 06:03 morning, I protect the environment with every kilometre and every tonne of cargo. Markus Sch. Train driver, Wiener Lokalbahnen Cargo 2 SUSTAINABILITY PROGRAMME 2015 KEY The status of targets and measures is indicated using the following symbols:  On schedule  Slightly delayed and postponed or slightly at risk  Seriously delayed and postponed or significantly at risk  Target achieved / measure implemented  Target or measure abandoned CLIMATE AND ENVIRONMENT MOBILITY DeadTargets and measures: Status Explanations line Group: Developing new forms of mobility ongoing  The aim of the two projects SMILE • Developing a multi-modal mobility platform to intelligently connect and WienMobil card is to address public transport, new e-mobility and supplementary mobility offers the needs of users to have uncompli(SMILE research project). Deadline: 2015, Status:  cated access to all publicly available • Testing the SMILE app with test users from Vienna. The app enables mobility services from a single source. intermodal routing, integrated booking and payment by smartPublic transport represents the phone. Deadline: from 2014, Status:  backbone of a modern urban mobility • Designing and implementing an IT system for a key or identification infrastructure. The launch of the card (‘mobility card’) for different mobility products. This card enaWienMobil card and the successful bles users to get a more convenient access to the mobility products pilot run of SMILE are key milestones of different providers. Deadline: 2014, Status:  of this project. • Introduction of the new mobility card. The new mobility card comThe WienMobil card has been availprises the annual season ticket for Wiener Linien, including lower able since March 2015. It costs EUR rates for using WIPARK car parks, charging stations for e-bikes and 377 (or EUR 236 for senior citizens) e-cars, as well as for the bike-hire system, Citybike. Deadline: 2015, per year (if debited once a year). Status:  Available via www.wienerlinien.at. Group: Development of the Vienna model region for e-mobility 2015  350 charging points have been on demand, together with a consortium of partners installed in the model region and 146 • Wien Energie: Setting up at least 440 charging stations. Deadline: e-vehicles commissioned by the end 2015, Status:  of 2014. • Group: Ensuring that, within the e-mobility on demand consortium, 175 e-cars are introduced in the model region. Deadline: 2015, Status:  Group: Promoting e-mobility with a connection to local pub2015  The aim of the ‘e-commuter in Lower lic transport for commuters (‘e-commuters in Lower Austria’ Austria’ research project is to find project) out how commuter traffic between • Construction of 161 (new, previously: up to 240) charging points by Vienna and Lower Austria can be Wien Energie and EVN. Deadline: 2015, Status:  made more energy-efficient and • Construction of additional PV facilities with a total output of environmentally friendly. 370 kWp by Wien Energie and EVN. Deadline: 2015, Status:  http://www.ecoplus.at/de/ecoplus/ cluster-niederoesterreich/e-mobil/ modellregion-e-pendler-niederoesterreich 3 Climate and environment DeadTargets and measures: Status Explanations line WIPARK: Promotion of soft mobility 2015  The new mobility concept of Seestadt • WIPARK is a mobility partner of the new WienMobil card. This card Aspern comprises an optimum concan also be used to conveniently pay the charges levied by the nection to the local public transport WIPARK car parks. Deadline: 2015, Status: new network together with a significant • Construction of three additional car parks as part of the mobility reduction in publicly available parking concept of Seestadt Aspern. Deadline: 2016. Status: new spaces to improve quality of life (green spaces, freedom from barriers, less noise). The four WIPARK underground car parks are designed in a simplified collective garage system. Car sharing is available, together with a bike depot, a delivery service and many other elements to ensure soft mobility. www.aspern-seestadt.at/ leben-arbeiten/mobilitaet RENEWABLE ENERGY SOURCES DeadTargets and measures: Status Explanations line Wien Energie: Increase the share of total electricity produced 2030  In 2014, production facilities with a by Wien Energie from renewable energies to at least 30 percapacity of 29.3 MWel were taken into cent and to 50 percent if this is financially feasible. service. It is necessary to install around 50 MWel of production capacity every year to achieve the minimum target of 30 percent. • Construction of a wind farm in Austria with an output of 200 MWel if financially feasible. Deadline: 2020, Status:  • Construction of PV projects with an output of 100 MWel if financially The following products were develfeasible. Deadline: 2022, Status:  oped and launched in the market in • Construction of regulating capacity for renewable energies. Dead2014 for decentralised use of renewline: 2017, Status:  able energies: • Implementation of three new energy supply models for decentral• Einfach nutzen (PV), ised use of renewable energies. Deadline: 2015, Status:  • Erdwärme (PV & heat pumps) • Development of a hydropower project portfolio in Austria. Deadline: and 2017, Status: new • Sonnenwärme (gas-fired boilers & • Development of renewable energy projects that improve the energy solar thermal power) efficiency of the energy supply system. Deadline: 2017, Status: new Wien Energie: Increase the share of total heating produced by 2030  Wien Energie from renewable energies to 50 percent. Heating from renewable energies includes production from biomass, geothermal energy, heat pumps, waste incineration (just biogenic fraction) and process heat from industry and businesses. • Investigation of the possibility to produce heat from solar thermal Wien Energie will publish a study on energy and feed this into the district heating network. Deadline: the potential of using solar thermal 2015, Status:  energy for district heating by the end • Definition of a verifiable interim target to increase the production of of 2015. The underlying conditions heat from renewable energies. Deadline: 2014, Status:  required for economic viability will • Examination of the potential of geothermal energy in the Vienna also be reviewed. basin to increase the share of heating produced from renewable energies. Deadline: 2015, Status: new • Examination of the potential of large heat pumps to feed renewable heat into the district heating network. Deadline: 2015, Status: new 4 Climate and environment ENERGY EFFICIENCY DeadTargets and measures: Status Explanations line Group: Improving energy efficiency throughout the Group 2020  Setting up and integrating the organi• Establishment of an energy efficiency competence centre. Deadline: sation of the competence centre serve 2015, Status: new to comply with the obligations arising out of the Energy Efficiency Act (EEffG) Wien Energie: Improving technical efficiency 2015  The incineration lines 1 and 2 of the • Optimisation of energy efficiency at the Spittelau waste incineration Spittelau waste incineration plant plant. Deadline: 2015, Status:  have been modernised and back in • Construction of a new heating plant at Arsenal. Commissioning: service since March 2015 and sum2014, Status:  mer 2014 respectively. • Repowering of the heating plant at Kagran. Commissioning: 2015, The new heating plant at Arsenal was Status:  taken into service in January 2015. The repowering of the Kagran heating plant has been put on hold until further notice due to changing underlying economic conditions. Wien Energie: Improvement of customer energy efficiency 2017  In just six months, the town of Mödling • Introduction of LED technology for street lighting in Mödling. Deadinstalled energy-saving LED technology line: 2015, Status:  in almost 1,600 lighting fixtures. This • REWE energy monitoring at its logistics site in Wiener Neudorf. action has enabled the town to cut its Deadline: 2015, Status:  electricity consumption by five percent, saving around EUR 100,000 a year. It Additional measures to improve customer energy efficiency are also means a reduction in CO2 emisdescribed under the expansion of the supply of cooling and energy sions of around 160 tonnes. Following poverty in the area of services of general interest and customers. its successful implementation, energy monitoring at REWE was incorporated into ongoing operations. Wien Energie: Expansion of the supply of district heating and 2030  alternative ways of supplying efficient heating: achieving a 50 percent share of Vienna’s low-temperature indoor heating market • Assessment of alternative technologies in the heating segment. Deadline: 2016, Status:  • Creation of a concept for the future of producing heating. Deadline: 2016, Status:  Wiener Linien: Improvement of the energy efficiency of rail2017  The findings of the EcoTram I and II bound vehicles: research projects have been taken Underground: Entire fleet of vehicles capable of energy recuinto account in the current round of peration by 2017 procurement of new trams. The new Trams: Entire fleet of vehicles capable of energy recuperation carriages will be equipped with CO2 by 2017 sensors (air conditioning or heating • U1–U4 underground lines: Procurement of 21 Type V underground depending on the degree of occupatrains (capable of enegy recuperation). Deadline: 2017, Status:  tion), variable frequency compressors • Procurement of an additional 150 ULF trams (capable of energy (optimised control of heating / air-conrecuperation). Deadline: 2015, Status:  ditioning system), heat protection • Development of energy-efficient thermal vehicle components in the films on the side windows and energy EcoTram II research project. Deadline: 2014, Status:  consumption displays for the drivers. • Testing of the recuperation of brake energy in the underground’s Brake energy: All of the electricity remedium-voltage network with a pilot facility (Brake Energy Research covered during braking could also be Project). Deadline: 2017, Status: new used if fed into the medium-voltage network. Up to now, this electricity could only be used to accelerate a vehicle on the same section of tracks. 5 Climate and environment DeadTargets and measures: Status Explanations line Wiener Linien: Reduction of energy consumption in company ongoing  Due to an objection raised during buildings the tender, the remaining platform • Construction of underground stations in the fourth phase of expanedge lighting on the U4 will only be sion in an energy-efficient way making full use of the available waste upgraded in 2015. In the course of heat. Deadline: approx. 2019, Status:  retrofitting the stations and tracks • Construction of three company buildings in an energy-efficient way of the U4, the other lighting in and (Simmering railway station ticket validator workshops, the so-called around the station and track area will Großstrecke West building in Rudolfsheim and the main workshops be largely upgraded to LED lights. in Simmering). Deadline: 2014, Status:  • Replacement of fluorescent tubes used for platform lighting with LED lighting along the entire U4 line. New deadline: 2015 (previously: 2014), Status:  WIPARK: Improving energy efficiency 2015  The photovoltaic installation on • Gradual optimisation of the lighting and ventilation in the car parks. the Westbahnhof railway station Deadline: 2015, Status:  multi-storey car park was not imple• Construction of a PV system integrated into the façade of the mented because the public subsidy Westbahnhof railway station multi-storey car park. Deadline: 2014, for systems integrated into façades Status:  was abolished. • Modernisation of the electrical fittings of the Stiftgasse car park. Deadline: 2015, Status: new WienIT: Green IT – Boosting energy efficiency 2016  From 2015, the energy flows at the • Closure of the old data processing centre on Pelikangasse and the (previdata processing centre in Simmering opening of the modern, energy-efficient data centre in Floridsdorf. ously will be recorded and analysed. The Deadline: 2014, Status:  2014) aim is to use the subsequent findings • Introduction of an energy management system at the data proto take targeted action to save cessing centre in Simmering using software to record energy flows. energy. Energy savings of up to 30 Deadline: 2015, Status: new percent are anticipated. Consequently, the objective to boost energy efficiency has been extended to 2016. BIODIVERSITY DeadTargets and measures: Status Explanations line Bestattung und Friedhöfe Wien: Protecting and promoting 2017 new Functional ecosystems with a wide biodiversity range of different species are just • Implementation of a pilot project to promote biodiversity at the as important for the protection and Simmering cemetery. Deadline: 2017, Status: new promotion of biodiversity as the • Increasing the attractiveness of the biotope in the natural garden at links between different living spaces. the Vienna Central Cemetery together with the municipal departCemeteries can play an important ment for the environment, MA 22. Deadline: 2017, Status: new role here as part of green infrastruc• Creation of a biotope at the Südwest Cemetery together with the ture. The pilot project serves to municipal department for the environment, MA 22. Deadline: 2017, develop and test a method to record Status: new and realise optimisation potential at • Conversion of paved pathways to grassy pathways at several cemecemeteries managed by Friedhöfe teries. Deadline: 2017, Status: new Wien GmbH. 6 Climate and environment FURTHER MEASURES TO PROTECT THE ENVIRONMENT DeadTargets and measures: Status Explanations line Wiener Netze: Environmental and climate protection in area of 2017  In 2014, the lighting at the large car the administration park on Erdbergstrasse was switched • Switching around 50 percent of the lighting at the Simmering site to to LED, among other measures. LED. Deadline: 2017, Status:  • Installation of movement sensors to control the energy efficiency of lighting at the Simmering site (50 percent of corridors and toilets). Deadline: 2015, Status:  • Implementation of energy audits throughout Wiener Netze. Deadline 2015, Status: new Wiener Netze: Expansion of environmental protection measures 2015  Initial trials with recycled material on building sites did not yield the desired result on • Gas division: Evaluation of the usability of recycled material and the test building site. Consequently, processed demolition material on pipeline building sites. To this the composition of the processed end, a test building site has been set up at the Simmering site. New materials was changed and a second deadline: 2015 (previously: 2014), Status:  trial started. Early interim results have • Gas division: Introduction of the use of processed demolition demonstrated a much better degree material to fill trenches and excavations on building sites. Deadline: of usability. 2014, Status:  The use of demolition material in trenches and excavations is on track and has not encountered any problems. Wiener Netze: Reduction in the amount of waste produced by 2016 new Raising the awareness of employees 10 percent means that the materials can be • Raising the awareness of employees on building sites and in the sorted and handed over to waste area of waste management through special training on the subject disposal services. Diligently sorting of waste seperation. Deadline 2015, Status: new material from network operations • Merging the areas of company waste management and waste disis expected to reduce the amount charge at the Erdbergstrasse site. Deadline 2015, Status: new of waste produced by around 20 tonnes a year. Given the fact that this involves high-quality material e.g. copper, aluminium, steel and packing materials (e.g. polystyrene, cardboard, wood, films, etc.), proper sorting may increase the proceeds from recycling. Wiener Lokalbahnen: Continuous improvement in the area of ongoing  No new climate or environmental climate and environmental protection protection projects are currently • Switching the lighting fixtures at the Inzersdorf garage from mercury planned. In the course of redesignvapour lamps to LED luminaires. Deadline: 2014, Status:  ing stations to provide barrier-free access, existing lighting fixtures are being replaced by LED ones, among other actions. Wiener Linien: Reducing water consumption 2014  • Installation of water-saving taps (approx. 5,000) and waterless urinals (approx. 700) in the toilets and washrooms of all company buildings and underground stations. Deadline: 2014, Status:  Wiener Netze, gas division: Reducing water consumption ongoing Over the past few years, water-saving  technology has been introduced in several areas, which means that all commercially viable measures have since been implemented. 7 Climate and environment DeadTargets and measures: Status Explanations line Bestattung und Friedhöfe Wien: Further modernisation of the 2015  Around 80 percent of the lighting infrastructure of Bestattung und Friedhöfe Wien fixtures in the new company building • Construction of a shared company building for funeral services and are equipped with LED. In other parts the logistics centre for coffins with integrated metal coffin producof the building, such as the cellar, it tion. The building is equipped with a heat recovery system. Deadmakes no sense to install LED lighting line: 2014, Status:  because they are seldom turned on. • Modernisation of the gardener’s heating facilities at the Vienna The new company building includes Central Cemetery. Replacing old oil heating with efficient gas-fired a new car wash, which is equipped heating. Deadline: 2015, Status: new with a water treatment system (water recycling). Bestattung und Friedhöfe Wien: Continuous improvement in ongoing  the area of environmental protection • Switch to LED technology for lighting in all mortuaries. Deadline: Mortuary lighting at the following 2017, Status:  cemeteries was switched to LED • Thermal rehabilitation of the administrative building and mortuary technology in 2014: Vienna Central at the Südwest cemetery, as well as installation of a new heating Cemetery, Simmering Crematorium, system including solar thermal energy. Deadline: 2014, Status:  Stammersdorf Central. • Fitting all watering heads of the company’s nurseries with ball valves. Deadline: 2014, Status:  • Motivating the cemetery nurseries not owned by the company to fit ball valves as well. Deadline: 2015, Status:  • Installation of a photovoltaic system on the roof of the service building at the Vienna Central Cemetery. Deadline: 2017, Status: new • Druckerei Lischkar: Reducing the quantity of isopropyl alcohol At the end of 2014, around 60 permixed with the water for cleaning the offset printer by ten percent. cent of lighting at Druckerei Lischkar Deadline: 2014, Status:  had been switched to LED. • Druckerei Lischkar: Switching all lighting fixtures at the printing house to LED. Deadline: 2015. Status:  WienIT: Continuous improvement in the area of environment 2015  protection (previThe creation of a waste management • Certification according to Austrian Ecolabel guidelines (Umweltously concept for the printing house zeichenrichtlinie) for print products. New deadline: 2015 (previously: 2014) sector was delayed due to a change 2014), Status:  in responsibilities. This concept is • Implementation of a waste management concept and appointrequired, however, to acquire certifiment of a waste management officer for WienIT. Deadline: 2015, cation for print products. Status: new • Evaluation of the suitability of e-vehicles for the fleet of WienIT. Deadline: 2015, Status: new Group: Rehabilitation of all areas affected by contamination 2014  The row of safety wells with the • Wiener Netze: Conclusion of Simmering site remediation. Deadline: wastewater treatment plant has 2014, Status:  been in service since 2014, bringing to an end the remediation work in Simmering. 8 I decide how I get about. 10:04 I have the most options in Vienna. Alina J. Customer of the Wipark bicycle garage at Kennedybrücke 9 SERVICES OF GENERAL INTEREST AND CUSTOMERS DeadTargets and measures: Status Explanations line Wiener Linien: Increasing the share of local public transport in 2020  Following a significant leap from Vienna’s modal split to 40 percent. 37 percent in 2011 to 39 percent in The following objectives and measures to increase the degree of 2012, the share of public transport in accessibility and customer satisfaction contribute to this overriding the modal split remained constant in objective. 2014 – despite an increase in passenger numbers – at 39 percent. Wiener Linien: Maintaining the degree of accessibility and availongoing  The next study to determine the ability (based on 2006 levels) degree of accessibility and availability Degree of accessibility in 2006: Schools 98.9%, inhabitants 96.1%, jobs is planned for 2017. 96.1%, living space 90.4%, developed land 88.2%, total area 57.9% • Extension of the U1 underground to Oberlaa in the south. Deadline: 2017, Status:  • Extension of the U2 from the Rathaus station to the Matzleinsdorfer Platz station. Deadline: 2023, Status: new • Development of the line for the new U5 from Rathaus to Frankhplatz. Deadline: 2023, Status: new • Extending the operating times and shortening the intervals of bus The operating times and the intervals lines 44A (Hernals), 45A, 46A and 46B (Ottakring), 53A, 54A, 54B, of the stated bus lines have been 55A (Hietzing), 80A (Landstrasse) and 84A (Donaustadt). Deadline: changed accordingly since 1 January 2015, Status: new 2015. This also applies to the exten• Extension of bus line 80A from its previous final stop at Schlachtsion of bus line 80A. hausgasse (U3) to the Neu Marx urban development area. Deadline: 2015, Status: new • Capacity increase on line 13A by using large articulated buses in place It is possible to reduce the number of of the regular buses used up to now. Deadline: 2015, Status: new spare vehicles by increasing capacity • Extending tram line D to the new urban development area around (increasing the intervals and using the main railway station (Hauptbahnhof). Deadline: 2019, Status: new large, articulated buses), thereby • Extension of tram line O to the Nordbahnhof urban development making even more efficient use of the area. Deadline: 2018, Status: new available fleet. Wiener Linien: Maintaining the high level of customer satisfacongoing  tion of at least 90 percent for Wiener Linien Measures to improve quality / convenience • Ultra-low-floor tram offensive: Continued replacement of convenThe traffic light priority measures tional tramcars with ULF units so that 60 percent of trams will be planned by 2014 (e.g. for the lines low floor. Deadline: 2015, Status:  1, 2, 6, 62, O and 14A) have been • Traffic light priority for local public transport: Implementing new implemented. Work will continue on traffic light priority measures. Deadline: 2014, Status:  traffic light priority measures in the • Replacement of Wiener Linien’s annual season tickets with convencoming years. ient, credit-card-format plastic cards. Deadline: from 2015, Status:  The new annual season ticket has • Introduction of free WiFi at 10 information and ticketing points been available since 1 January 2015. (Südtiroler Platz-Hauptbahnhof, Karlsplatz, Praterstern, Schottentor, The credit-card-format plastic card Westbahnhof, Stephansplatz, Landstraße, Meidlinger Hauptstraße, is modern, convenient and more Floridsdorf and Erdberg). Deadline: 2015, Status: new difficult to counterfeit. • Complete renovation of the Stadtpark station (U4). Deadline: 2015, In the course of the work to renovate Status: new the U4 underground line, additional • Complete renovation of the Alser Strasse station (U6). Deadline: connections between tracks will be 2016, Status: new installed to be able to redirect trains • Complete renovation of the Währinger Strasse and Nussdorfer more easily (by changing track) in Strasse stations (both U6). Deadline 2020, Status: new case of disruption. • Complete renovation of the U4 underground line (signal boxes, track systems, CCTV). Deadline: 2024, Status: new 10 Services of general interest and customers DeadTargets and measures: Status Explanations line • Creation of a public transport planning manual with the involvement The optimisation of stops determined of Vienna’s municipal administration. Deadline: 2015, Status: new in the project ‘Stops of the future’ are • Redesigning tram and bus stops with an integrated real-time display taken into account when planning by in the station stop sign (revision of the winning design project). means of the new manual. Deadline: 2015, Status: new Information measures Due to the rise in passenger num• Time displays: Fitting 32 stations with monitors that provide passenbers, around 1,100 real-time displays gers with information about the upcoming departure times of trams, are now required to equip all stops underground trains and buses in the vicinity of the station. New with more than 1,000 departing deadline: 2015 (previously: 2014), Status:  passengers every day. Work to install • Real-time displays: Increase in the number of electronic displays time displays was pushed back in at tram and bus stops to around 1,100 (new, previously: 1,000 disorder to progress here more quickly. plays). New deadline: 2020 (previously: 2018), Status:  • Introduction of new control centre software that enables information about disruptions to be distributed more quickly, accurately and therefore much more effectively. Deadline: 2015, Status: new • New design of surrounding area maps at the stations, route information in the vehicles and disruption information for monitors. Deadline: 2015, Status: new • Introduction of a schematic total route network map. Deadline: 2015, Status: new Since 2014, all new buses have been equipped with passenger information Safety and security measures monitors, video surveillance and LED • Fitting electronic door sensors and a light to signal that doors are interior lighting. closing for passengers with hearing impairments in Type V, T1, T, U11 and U2 underground vehicles. Deadline: 2019, Status:  • Retrofitting type ULF B1 with video surveillance. Deadline: 2015, Status: new • Conversion of the E2 driver’s cab to improve safety for drivers. Deadline: 2015, Status: new The line service has a proactive and monitoring role. On the one hand, Further measures to promote customer satisfaction it is there to provide passengers • Acquisition of five standard hybrid buses, 23 standard buses (EURO with advice and support, e.g. at the VI) and 56 articulated buses (EURO VI). Deadline: 2014, Status:  ticketing machine. On the other, it • Acquisition of 20 standard diesel-powered buses (EURO VI) and 55 pays attention to safety, cleanliness articulated diesel-powered buses (EURO VI). Deadline: 2015, Status: and convenience for everyone e.g. by new addressing passengers who ignore • Acquisition of 20 additional Type T1 traction units to reduce interthe ban on eating and drinking in vals on the U6 underground line. Deadline: Six units by 2013 and 14 the vehicles or taking action when units by 2014, Status:  passengers are noisy or behave • Acquisition of 156 ultra-low-floor trams. Receipt of first units: 2018, obtrusively. Status: new • Pilot project to create a service team with a standardised appearance at Wiener Linien’s stations. This involves developing the tasks and activities of station caretakers and line service employees with a focus on greater visibility, improved passenger information and better customer service. Deadline: 2015, Status: new 11 Services of general interest, customers DeadTargets and measures: Status Explanations line Wiener Lokalbahnen: Barrier-free access to all stations of Wie2019  The new ‘Baden Landesklinikum’ stop ner Lokalbahnen was officially opened on 15 Decem• Barrier-free renovation of the Möllersdorf und Baden Josefsplatz ber 2014. The 36th Badner Bahn stop stations. Deadline: 2014, Status:  will in future provide an optimum • Constriction of a new, barrier-free station at Baden Landesklinikum. connection for the new LandeskliniDeadline: 2015, Status:  kum (provincial clinic) to the public • Barrier-free renovation of the Neu Guntramsdorf and Pfaffstätten transport network. It is equipped with Rennplatz stations (previously: and Traiskirchen Lokalbahn). Deadwheelchair access and a guidance line: 2016, Status:  system for blind people. • Barrier-free renovation of the Traiskirchen Lokalbahn station. Deadline: 2019, Status: new Wiener Lokalbahnen: Increasing customer satisfaction ongoing  The new machines are more conven• New ticketing machines: Completion of the rollout by equipping ient to use and also enable cashless the Oper and Baden Josefsplatz stations with the new machines. payment. Deadline: 2014, Status:  WIPARK: Increasing customer satisfaction 2015  The length of time to achieve this • Setting up of a control centre with 24-hour support for all cus(previobjective has been extended as antomer-related matters. Deadline: 2014, Status:  ously: other measure to improve customer • Further development of the ticketing system. Deadline: 2015, 2014) satisfaction has been taken with the Status: new further development of the ticketing system. Wien Energie: Expanding the supply of cooling to achieve an 2020  The district cooling centre at the installed cooling output of 200 MW Vienna North Hospital was complet• Equipping the Vienna North Hospital (Krankenhaus Nord) with ed at the end of 2014. It is taken district cooling (10 MW). Deadline: 2014, Status:  into service as soon as the customer • Equipping the new main railway station (Hauptbahnhof) with disrequires cooling. trict cooling (20 MW). Deadline: 2014, Status:  The cooling project for the main • Upgrading the Spittelau refrigeration centre (3 MW). Deadline: railway station was taken into service 2016, Status: new in 2014. Wien Energie: Continued expansion of the Energy Centres 2015  In the course of restructuring sub-division at Energiecomfort, the focus of • Energiecomfort: Geographical market enlargement to central geographical market enlargement and western Austria through the construction of energy plants to central and western Austria is no with an annual production capacity of 40,000 MWh. Deadline: longer significant. 2015, Status:  Wien Energie: Further expansion of services by Wien Energie to 2015  The number of employees at the omreduce cases of social hardship with regard to energy poverty budsman office was increased from • Additional personnel for the ombudsman office for cases of three to six in 2014. social hardship. Deadline: 2014, Status:  Awareness of the ombudsman office • Intensification of networking work to raise the profile of the omis rising due to participation at budsman office among members of the professional public and events such as the ECA conference within Wiener Stadtwerke. Deadline: 2015, Status:  on energy poverty and the ongoing • Expansion of the cooperation with the City of Vienna as part of networking meetings with social the programme to provide energy support (Wiener Energieunterinstitutions and NGOs. stützung) in Vienna. Deadline: 2014, Status:  The rollout of smart meters has been • Development of a concept to design possible monthly conpostponed and will start in 2017 at sumption pattern for smart meters. New deadline: 2017 (previthe earliest. The network operator is ously 2015), Status:  still working on the device specifications and how to handle smart meters. This work must be far enough along to be able to draw up the concept. 12 Services of general interest, customers DeadTargets and measures: Status Explanations line Wiener Netze: Preparation for the introduction of smart meter2015 transing for electricity ferred • Implementation of the smart metering pilot project. Deadline: 2014, Status: transferred • Preparation of the smart metering rollout for electricity and gas. In the course of restructuring Wiener Deadline: 2015, Status: transferred Netze, the smart meter electricity and gas divisions were merged. Wiener Netze: Preparation for the introduction of smart meter2015 transThe previous objectives and measing for gas ferred ures were combined under ‘Introduc• Implementation of the third field test for the smart metering of gas. tion of smart metering for electricity Deadline: 2014, Status: transferred and gas’. • Setting up of a test IT infrastructure for gas smart metering. Deadline: 2014, Status: transferred • Analysis of the third field test for the smart metering of gas. Deadline: 2015, Status: transferred Wiener Netze: Introduction of smart metering for electricity 2017 new The joint smart metering system will and gas be prepared by 2017. • Preparation and implementation of the tendering process to The preparations to introduce smart purchase the entire smart metering system. Deadline: 2016, metering for electricity and gas have Status: new been delayed due to legal uncertain• Implementation of preparatory work to start the rollout. Deadties and the merging of the two diviline: 2016, Status: new sions in Wiener Netze. The rollout for • Implementation of pilot projects for electricity and gas smart electricity will begin before the gas metering. Deadline 2016, Status: new rollout due to the fact that no legal • Start of rollout of electricity and gas smart metering. Deadline: regulations are yet in place for gas. 2017, Status: new Wiener Netze: Increasing pressure in the gas network wherever around  In the 2014 business year, over 4,000 technically required 2024 household pressure regulators and • Increasing pressure in the network segments of the 2nd, 21st 6,600 gas meter regulators were and 22nd Districts, as well as in Gerasdorf. Deadline: 2014, installed to increase pressure. Status:  This was increased to 60 millibar • Increasing pressure in parts of the 11th District / Schwechat, (mbar) in Favoriten Süd. Langenzersdorf and Traiskirchen. Deadline: 2015, Status: new Wiener Netze: Construction of the new head office for Wiener 2016  The work to build the company’s new Netze and optimisation of support processes (Smart Campus) head office is on schedule. • Installation of a PV system at the new head office Smart Campus It is not allowed to decide ahead of (previously: by Wien Energie). Employee participation (similar time on a construction partner (e.g. to citizen solar power plants) is being assessed. Deadline: 2016, Wien Energie) for a building of this Status:  size. Whether employee participation is possible will be addressed once the construction company has been selected and options evaluated. Friedhöfe Wien: Boosting customer satisfaction 2017 new In 2014, it was decided to continue • Conduct of a customer satisfaction survey. Deadline: 2017, Status: operating the bus service at the new Vienna Central Cemetery financed by Friedhöfe Wien, despite the increase in costs. 13 Services of general interest, customers DeadTargets and measures: Status Explanations line Group: Increasing research and development activities as 2015  In recent years, research and development measured by the total sum of own and raised funds activities have become increasingly significant in contributing to corporate development. An increasing amount of funds and more experts are being used to pursue research and development activities as well as innovation processes established. These underpin activities such as the setting up of a Group-wide FTI coordination office (from 2011) and an FTI innovation fund (from 2012), the implementation of interdisciplinary projects such as the URBEM doctoral programme together with the Vienna University of Technology and the Aspern Smart City Research (ASCR) project. Group: Helping Vienna to develop into a smart city 2017  The key objective 2050 of the smart city through research, technological development and innovaVienna is: To ensure the highest quality of tion (German: FTI) life for every person in Vienna while conserv• Involvement in the development of the Smart City Vienna ing resources as much as possible. strategy. Deadline: 2014, Status:  www.smartcity.wien.gv.at • E-taxis for Vienna: Research project to investigate open leExisting pools of fleet vehicles can be gal, organisational, technical and economic issues for taxi reduced and loads optimised by combining companies and charging point operators. Deadline: 2014, the company’s own fleet with car-sharing, Status:  taxi and other public transport offers. This • Fleet management research project and mobility requires a system platform which can be management: Development of an integrated vehicle fleet used to plan, book and pay for these servicmanagement system in which fleet vehicles are integrated es centrally. and billed together with taxi, car sharing and public transAspern Smart City Research GmbH (ASCR) port offers to optimise the existing fleet. Deadline 2015, develops innovative energy research proStatus: new jects focusing on the areas of ICT, buildings, • Research of smart city technologies at Seestadt Aspern networks and users using real-life data. (ASCR). Deadline: 2017, Status:  This project is running from 2013 to 2018. • Transform+ project: Development and testing of smart Further information can be found at: www. urban development processes and specific local pilot ascr.at applications for smart city technologies. Deadline: 2016, Wiener Stadtwerke is responsible for deStatus:  veloping and piloting an e-delivery concept • Urban energy and mobility system (URBEM) doctoral proin the Liesing industrial area as part of the gramme: Promoting and supporting ten research students Transform+ project. The focus here is on with regard to individual strategic issues in this subject delivery, repair and customer service transarea. Deadline: 2016, Status:  portation with battery-powered vehicles • Evaluation of Wiener Stadtwerke’s FTI activities. Deadline: weighing up to 3.5 tonnes. The vehicles 2015, Status: new should be used by several companies via a • Increasing the information available about Wiener pooling system. Further information can be Stadtwerke’s research and development activities on the found at Group’s website. Deadline 2015, Status: new www.transform-plus.at/index.php?id=5 The URBEM doctoral programme initiated The FTI projects for e-mobility and new mobility forms also by Wiener Stadtwerke together with the constitute a contribution to Vienna’s development into a Vienna University of Technology received smart city. Other FTI projects in which Wiener Stadtwerke is the 2014 Sustainability Award in the cateinvolved are described here (in German): gory ‘Research’. This award is bestowed by www.nachhaltigkeit.wienerstadtwerke.at/daseinsvorsorge/ the Austrian Federal Ministry of Science, innovationen.html. Research and Economy and the Austrian Federal Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry, Environment and Water Management. Further information can be found at urbem. tuwien.ac.at 14 15:47 As soon as there is even a slight breeze in Vienna, it’s all systems go. Go for green energy. Lisa L. & David Sch. Wind Power Team, Wien Energie 15 EMPLOYEES DeadTargets and measures: Status Explanations line Promoting the health of employees ongoing  The number of notifiable accidents Reducing the accident rate for notifiable accidents at work ongoing  at work rose to 355 in 2014 (prior • Gradual evaluation of work-related psychological stress in the year: 322). However, the accident rate Group. Deadline: 2015, Status:  continues to decline overall. In 2008, • Further linking of medical services within the Group. Deadline: 2015, there were 28.3 accidents per 1,000 Status:  employees. In 2014, the ratio was 21.7 (prior year: 20.0). Around 65 percent of all jobs in the Group had been evaluated for psychological stress by the end of 2014 in accordance with employee protection legislation (ASchG). All of the jobs will have been evaluated by the end of 2015. The stresses identified vary depending on the occupational group. Improving the working situation for employees with regard to ongoing  The flexitime working model condemographic changes tinued to be implemented in the • Implementing a concept to improve working time planning at funerals and cemeteries division. ExBestattung und Friedhöfe. Deadline: 2014, Status:  isting working time models are being • Further development of the leadership culture through the exrevised or redesigned as required. change of knowledge and experience. Deadline: 2014, Status:  • Setting up and further developing practical-based knowledge In order to further improve the management. Deadline: 2017, Status: new leadership culture, a series of articles on the topic of the culture of mistakes and the role of managers was published in the employee magazine in 2014, among others, and a series of short presentations was held for junior managers and experts on the issues of leadership, self-motivation as well as alcohol and drug-dependency at work. The ImPulskonferenz event was also introduced in 2014, where senior managers meet to discuss current management issues without a defined agenda. A total of five ImPulsKonferenz events were held in 2014. Ensuring that personnels needs (both qualitatively and quanti2017  The Group-wide mentoring protatively) can be met on a long-term basis. gramme was launched on 1 July Measures to improve quality / convenience 2014 and serves to complement the • Introduction of a mentoring programme for new employees during welcome day and the hop-on/hop-off onboarding. Deadline: 2014, Status:  tour. The aim of the mentoring pro• Reorganisation of the HR division (WIR HR 2015). Deadline: 2015, gramme is to make it easier for Wiener Status:  Stadtwerke employees when joining or • Gradual development and implementation of a Group-wide qualifitransferring within the company, therecation model. Deadline: 2017, Status:  by successfully integrating them into • Implementation of another trainee programme in cooperation with daily work from the very beginning. the City of Vienna. Deadline: 2016, Status: new Similarly, the aim of the online job ex• Implementation of an online job exchange. Deadline: 2016, Status: new change, the recruitment software tool • Introduction of a recruitment software tool. Deadline: 2016, Status: new and the redesigning of the job maga• Redesigning the job magazine and overhauling vacancy announcezine and vacancy announcements is to ments. Deadline: 2016, Status: new promote mobility within the Group. 16 Employees DeadTargets and measures: Status Explanations line Promoting women and equality 2020 new As at 31 December 2013, women • Raising the awareness of managers regarding equality and the made up 16.0 percent of the Group’s promotion of women in the course of an event. Deadline: 2015, workforce. Status: new • Holding of an event for employees to encourage networking and dialogue within the WSTW Group (Frauenfest). Deadline: 2015, Status: new • Appealing more to women to apply for advertised positions (internal / external) to increase the share of women at work, particularly in occupational groups where women are under-represented. Start: 2015, Status: new • Preparation of a short annual report on the participation of men and women in training and further education measures. The aim of these short reports is to ensure equal access. Start: 2015, Status: new Wiener Linien: Boosting the culture of recognition 2015 new Several interlocking objectives come at Wiener Linien together to boost the culture of rec• Holding training courses on the topic relating to the culture of ognition (overriding objective): recognition, acknowledgement of performance, giving feedback • Establishing a sound understanding and dealing with mistakes (recognition workshops). Deadline: 2015, of performance Status: new • Professional evaluation of perfor• Appointment of recognition coaches who help managers maintain mance and demonstrate respectful behaviour. Deadline: 2015, Status: new • Promoting the giving of feedback • Amendment of job descriptions (acknowledgement of perforand handling of mistakes mance). Deadline: 2015, Status: new • A greater degree of respectful • Preparation and signing of a recognition charter. Deadline: 2015, communication Status: new 17 For me, 17:09 Wiener Stadtwerke means the supply of energy, mobility and a secure job. Marija M. Office clerk, Wiener Stadtwerke head office 18 SOCIAL ENVIRONMENT DeadTargets and measures: Status Explanations line Group: Implement the ten principles of the UN Global Compact ongoing  Wiener Stadtwerke has long felt We are working to achieve this objective by applying our code of concommitted to the principles of the duct, as well as implementing a range of measures with regards to our United Nations in respect of human employees, as well as to gradually introduce certified management rights, working standards, environsystems in the organisation. mental protection and anti-corruption, which is why it joined the UN Global Compact in 2008. We are not entirely satisfied with the progress made in implementing the principles, even though much has been achieved since we joined, not least because there has been further delays to the Group-wide introduction of management systems for the environment, occupational safety and quality. Group: Supporting the voluntary activities of employees 2014  Five trainees from different Group • Launch of the YoungCaritas project. Deadline: 2014, Status:  companies participated in the YoungCaritas project in 2014, dealing increasingly with the issues of poverty and social exclusion (prejudices). Group: Preserve cultural heritage 2020  The new funeral museum was opened • Bestattung und Friedhöfe Wien: Opening of the museum at the (previon 13 October 2014. It is open on Vienna Central Cemetery. Deadline: 2014, Status:  ously: weekdays from 9:00 am to 4:30 pm. • Wiener Linien: Opening of the transport museum in the former 2014) The transport museum welcomed its Erdberg depot. Deadline: 2014, Status:  10,000th visitor on 21 January 2015. • Wiener Linien: Comprehensive historic preservation measures in During the renovation of the Otto the course of renovating the Stadtpark station designed by Otto Wagner stations, the original eleWagner. Deadline: 2015, Status: new ments will, for instance, be expertly • Wiener Linien: Comprehensive historic preservation measures in the restored rather than replaced, as far course of renovating the Alser Strasse (U6) station designed by Otto as is technically possible. Similarly, Wagner. Deadline: 2016, Status: new the platform tiling will be restored to • Wiener Linien: Comprehensive historic preservation measures in the its original appearance. course of renovating the Währinger Strasse and Nussdorfer Strasse stations designed by Otto Wagner. Deadline: 2020, Status: new Group: Supporting art and culture 2015 new • WIPARK: Erection of piece of artwork at the entrance to and exit of the Freyung underground car park. A rehearsal area for musicians will also be built in this car park. Deadline: 2015, Status: new 19 ORGANISATION DeadTargets and measures: Status Explanations line Group: Boosting organisational efficiency through process opti2017  misation and ensuring the optimum use of resources, particularly in the energy division • Wien Energie: Analysis of the company to identify potential synergies (e.g. maintenance). Deadline: 2015, Status:  • Wien Energie: Further strengthening of customer-focused sales. Deadline: 2015, Status:  • Wiener Netze: Ensuring the conservative use of resources through process optimisation. Deadline: 2017, Status:  Group: Prioritisation of non-financial performance indicators 2015 new from the viewpoint of stakeholders • Implementation of the ‘Measuring Shared Value’ project by means of three stakeholder workshops. Deadline: 2015, Status: new Group: Optimisation of the Group management process 2015 new The company’s targets are derived • Derivation of corporate targets in the Group management process, from the Group management proDeadline: 2015, Status: new cess. Group: Completion of the gradual introduction of certified 2016  environmental management systems at all relevant company (previfacilities ously: • Wien Energie: Certification of the entire Simmering site according 2015) Wien Energie’s environmental to EMAS as well. Deadline: 2014, Status:  management system was extended • Wien Energie: Certification of the environmental and occupational to include the departments for servicsafety management system according to EMAS, ISO 14001 and ing customer equipment and material OHSAS 18001 at the Donaustadt 3 power plant including ancillary management. The certification audit facilities. Deadline: 2015, Status:  took place in April 2015. • Wien Energie: Setting up an environmental management system in Energiecomfort has largely imthe administration including certification according to ISO 14001. plemented an integrated quality New deadline: 2015 (previously: 2014), Status:  and environmental management • Energiecomfort: Expansion of the quality management system to system. The project was put on become an integrated quality and environmental management hold in 2015 due to the restructursystem. New deadline: 2016 (previously: 2014), Status:  ing of Energiecomfort. An energy • Wiener Netze: Extending the certification according to ISO 14001 management system was impleto include the entire Wiener Netze GmbH. Deadline: 2015, Status: mented instead. Certification was new performed in December 2014. • Friedhöfe Wien: Setting up an environmental management system for the Südwest cemetery including certification according to EMAS. New deadline: 2018 (previously: 2016), Status:  • Vienna crematorium: Setting up of an environmental management The environmental management system for the crematorium including certification according to ISO system at the Vienna crematorium 14001. New deadline: 2015 (previously: 2014), Status:  was certified in April 2015. • Group: Integration of an environmental management system into the quality management system of Wiener Stadtwerke Holding AG including certification according to ISO 14001. Deadline: 2015, Status: new • Wiener Lokalbahnen: Setting up an environmental management system for Wiener Lokalbahnen AG, Wiener Lokalbahnen Cargo GmbH and Wiener Lokalbahnen Verkehrsdienste GmbH including certification according to ISO 14001. Deadline: 2015, Status: new • Wien Energie: Setting up an environmental management system for Wien Energie Bundesforste Biomasse Kraftwerk GmbH & Co KG including certification according to ISO 14001. Deadline: 2015, Status: new 20 Organisation DeadTargets and measures: Status Explanations line Group: Completion of the introduction of certified quality and 2017  The introduction of integrated quality safety management systems at all relevant company facilities (previand environmental management • Wien Energie: Introduction and certification of an integrated quality ously systems at Wien Energie has been and environmental management system at relevant sites. New 2015) postponed due to the fact that the deadline: 2017 (previously: 2015), Status:  post-merger integration of Fern• Wiener Netze, gas division: Expansion of the integrated wärme Wien has not yet been fully management system including an energy management system accompleted. cording to EN 50001, including certification. Deadline: 2014, Status: transferred to the widening of the certification according to ISO 14001 to including the entire Wiener Netze. • Friedhöfe Wien: Setting up of a quality management system for the customer service including certification according to ISO 9001. Deadline: 2016, Status:  • Holding: Setting up of a quality management system including certification according to ISO 9001. Deadline: 2016, Status: new 21 01:12 Tonight I will once again ensure that many revellers get home safely. Gerhard A. Night bus driver, Wiener Linien 22 UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2014 W iener Stadtwerke has been a member of the UN Global Compact since 2008. We are committed to its ten principles. With regard to the principles that affect You can find more information on our sustainability portal at nachhaltigkeit.wienerstadtwerke.at. our business activities, we integrate corresponding requireNo developments have been detailed for Principles 1 to 5 ments into our business processes and set ourselves tarin 2014. The reason for this is that supporting human rights gets in our sustainability programme. is a matter of course for both Wiener Stadtwerke and the country of Austria as a whole. There are no cases of forced Global Compact requires its members to submit an annual or child labour in our company or in our surroundings. This report on progress made. is why these topics have not been explicitly addressed in our sustainability guidelines or in the sustainability proThe following table provides a list of the associated guidegramme. lines and organisational systems, and details the progress made. The page numbers refer to the corresponding secYou can find further explanations in our commitment to tions in the 2013 sustainability report. protecting human rights and preventing forced and child labour (in German only), which is available for download from our sustainability portal. 23 Commitment and systems Developments in 2014 PRINCIPLE 1 Commitment Supporting human rights Commitment to protecting human PRINCIPLE 2 rights and preventing forced and child Ensuring non-complicity in human rights labour. abuses » Download from the sustainability portal (only in German) PRINCIPLE 3 Commitment Upholding the freedom of association Sustainability guidelines and of the right to collective bargaining » see the sustainability portal Systems Personnel representation for permanent employees, works council for contractual civil servants and employees under collective employment agreements. PRINCIPLE 4 Commitment Elimination of all forms of forced and Commitment to protecting human compulsory labour rights and preventing forced and child PRINCIPLE 5 labour. Abolition of child labour » Download from the sustainability portal PRINCIPLE 6 Commitment 2014 measures Elimination of discrimination Wiener Stadtwerke’s code of conduct Participation in the so-called Daughter’s Day » see the website of Wiener 2014. Stadtwerke » see the sustainability portal Sustainability guidelines Inclusion of the objective ‘Promoting women » see the sustainability portal and equality’ in the sustainability programme. Anti-discrimination manual » see page 17 » see the sustainability portal Switch to ultra-low-floor trams (ULF). Commitment to barrier-free public » see page 10 transport. » see the sustainability Barrier-free renovation of the Möllersdorf and portal Baden Josefsplatz stations; construction of a new, barrier-free station at Baden LandeskliSystems nikum. Equal opportunities officer and the » see page 12 woman’s development plan. Introduction of a multi-sensory infopoint by » see the sustainability portal Wiener Linien. The multi-sensory infopoint MUSIP provides videos in sign language, audio-amplifying equipment, read-out functions, tactile planning fields and buttons to enable barrier-free use. 2014 results The proportion of women in the workforce is gradually rising. It increased from 14.7 percent in 2007 to 17 percent in 2014. In 2014, 258 of 1,140 new appointments were women (23 percent). » see the sustainability portal Wiener Linien won the eAWARD plus a state award for the barrier-free infopoint MUSIP. 24 Commitment and systems Developments in 2014 PRINCIPLE 7 Commitment 2014 measures Precautionary approach to environmenSustainability guidelines Increasing the energy efficiency of Wiener tal challenges » see the sustainability portal Linien’s rail-bound units by purchasing vehiPRINCIPLE 8 cles capable of energy recovery. Initiatives to promote greater environSystems » see page 5. mental responsibility Environmental and integrated Optimisation of energy production at the management systems Spittelau waste incineration plant and con» see the sustainability portal struction of the Arsenal heating plant. Sustainability management e.g. with » see page 5. sustainability officers and sustainability Construction of three company buildings for working groups on climate protection, Wiener Linien in an energy-efficient way. environmentally-friendly procurement, » see page 6. management systems and sustainabiliReplacement of the old data processing centy communication tre on Pelikangasse with the new, energy-effi» see the sustainability portal cient data centre in Floridsdorf. » see page 6. Definition of measures to protect and promote biodiversity in Vienna’s cemeteries. » see page 6. Settling of ten bee colonies in the natural garden at the Vienna Central Cemetery. » Sustainability portal The projects in the area of renewable energies are listed under Principle 9. 2014 results Maintaining the share of local public transport in Vienna’s modal split at 39 percent. In 2014, around 913 million passengers used public transport in Vienna, 1.4 percent more than in the previous year. Figures regarding the development of CO2 emissions, air pollution emissions, waste production and water consumption can be found on the » Sustainability portal 25 Commitment and systems Developments in 2014 PRINCIPLE 9 Commitment 2014 measures Development and diffusion of Sustainability guidelines Enlargement of the Steinriegel wind farm to include 11 environmentally friendly technol» see the sustainability portal additional wind turbines. The entire wind farm now has ogies a capacity of 38.8 MW. Systems Construction of the citizen solar power plants ‘HTL ‘Solar Kraft’ offers by Wien Energie. Wien 10’ (255 kWp) and WIPARK Siebenhirten (132 » see the Wien Energie website kWp) Energy-saving advice » see the citizen solar power plants website » see the sustainability portal Launch of the ‘Solarkraft Einfach Nutzen’ product, FTI coordination and internal FTI which makes it easier for customers to use their roof budget. » see page 14 areas or land for photovoltaic energy production. Wien Energie plans, funds, builds and operates the photovoltaic installation. The customers can use the electricity produced themselves or feed it into the grid. Commissioning of the Simmering high-pressure heat storage tank Construction of a district cooling facility for the Vienna North Hospital (Krankenhaus Nord) (completion 2015) Introduction of LED technology for street lighting in Mödling. » see page 5. Development of energy-efficient thermal vehicle components. » see page 5. Continuation of the ‘Urban Mining’ project in which an infrastructure catalogue with resources in structures is being prepared. Start of the ‘Operational Mobility Management’ project in which a platform is being developed to enable company vehicles to be used in an easier, more efficient and more sustainable way. Conclusion of the SMILE research project, in which a prototype for a multi-modal mobility platform is being developed and piloted. Continuation of the research cooperation with the Vienna University of Technology. see » the Wiener Stadtwerke website for more information about upcoming and other research and innovation projects. 2014 results The amount of electricity produced from renewable energies (water, wind, solar and biomass) declined by 115 MW (-12 percent) in 2014 to 814 MW. This was due, among other things, to low water levels in the rivers Inn and Danube. PRINCIPLE 10 Commitment Measures Anti-corruption measures Wiener Stadtwerke’s code of conHolding of training courses on compliance and duct anti-corruption » see the website of Wiener Stadtwerke 2014 results From 2012 to July 2014, a total of 77 training courses Systems were held to cement the new anti-corruption guideGroup compliance officer and comlines in the Group, taking the form of classic largepliance officers in the divisions. group training courses as well as small, more personal group training courses and numerous online courses. see » 2013 sustainability report (in German, p. 72) 26 27 We sort everything out 03:17 at night for the 2.5 million passengers during the day. Safety is our top priority. Thomas W. & his team, Train maintenance employee, Wiener Linien 28 NOTES 29 WIENER LINIEN | WIPARK | WIENER LOKALBAHNEN | WIEN ENERGIE | WIENER NETZE | BESTATTUNG & FRIEDHÖFE WIEN THE STRONG BRANDS OF WIENER STADTWERKE
