Environment Principle Assessment Policy & Goals: CSS Corp is committed to lead on environment issues in the IT support industry and to advance best practices. This includes the prudent use of natural resources, managing operations to reduce footprint, health and safety, and sensitizing human capital to safeguard the environment. CSS Corp has identified its sphere of influence and impact as  Environment indicators – Energy, water, paper & waste (mainly e-waste generation) and GHG Emissions business travel  Environment, Health and Safety (EHS) and Physical Environment  Procurement & Supply Chain  Training and sensitization of staff on environment indicators and good practices We are in the process of baselining and target setting for all the key environment indicators to monitor, manage and reduce the environmental impact. Going forward, we will be developing a roadmap for the coming years in each of the indicator to have an effective Environment Management System (EMS) in place. The roadmap includes target setting, impact reduction projects and continuous improvement strategy. This helps us to achieve our corporate goals in the defined period. Implementation: Awareness creation with our employees has gained traction. Presently, we have undertaken several initiatives to manage and mitigate environment impacts associated to our operations. These initiatives have at their core both environmental protection and cost savings. Some of these initiatives are:  Energy conservation – Several energy reduction projects identified and implementation strategy put in place  Logistics optimisation (Scope III emission reduction) – Transport management system is based on an algorithm for the route engine, which optimises the routes (based on staff population density, journeys and shift logins) and creates a comprehensive boarding time and departure code, where monitoring of pick-up and drop, boarding and live cab movement and central issues of operations Outcomes: Carbon footprint reduction We have taken several initiatives to reduce our energy consumption thereby reducing organization’s carbon footprint. Initiatives includes efficient lighting, HVAC improvement projects and operation optimization. To mitigate the GHG emissions we have initiated logistics optimization in the transport management system, which has resulted in higher occupancy rate in the fleet. E-waste reduction E-waste is a key environmental and social consideration in the IT Industry. Being an environment conscious company, we have raised awareness in our neighbourhoods especially with the schools and communities and managed to collect 90 kgs of e-waste and the e-waste collected is sent back to the authorized recyclers. ‘Care for Paws’ initiative – The ‘Tiger’ is both a guardian and an indicator of a healthy forest. CSS Corp has donated 500 camera traps to tiger habitats as part of our ‘Care for Paws’ initiative. Camera traps helps the forest guard to track the movement of tigers and to avoid illegal poaching inside the tiger reserve. Human Rights Principle Assessment Policy & Goals: CSS Corp’s values are at the core of the organization’s business endeavours. The organisation derives the policies and procedures for all the workforce activities from these values. The organisation values support and respect the protection of human rights of every stakeholder associated. Implementation: CSS Corp has policies for key Human Rights principles and applies them uniformly across the organization which includes hours of work policy, leave, holiday and attendance policy etc. A code of business conduct policy is set in place to adhere to the global operating standards. CSS Corp operates from 15 global locations, where all the policies have been implemented as per global standards as well as complied with the law of the land. All employees have been trained on the Human Rights policies across our offices. Our commitment to staff welfare is absolute and our initiatives in this sphere reflect the same. CSS Corp invests resources in the holistic development of associates through training and other learning. This helps build people capacity and capability in line with the organization’s vision, mission and values. A strong employee grievance redressal mechanism has been put in place to enable employees to share concerns and get them redressed. An anti-harassment and anti-sexual harassment policy and program ensures employees are trained and aware of their rights and local laws. To sustain healthy growth of the organization, we ensure the health and safety of employees. All employees are requested to strictly adhere to the health and safety guidelines in a cooperative manner. At CSS Corp, we believe in conducting our affairs in a fair and transparent manner by adopting the highest standards of ethics, honesty, integrity and professionalism while developing a culture of high integrity and transparency. To encourage this, the Whistle Blower Policy has been formulated to provide an effective mechanism to enable employees to disclose alleged wrong doings within the context of the company in a responsible and effective manner without any fear of victimization or adverse action. The global employee handbook covers aspects of workplace bullying, violence at workplace, voting rights, compensation and benefits practice etc. Outcomes: We at CSS Corp treat employees equally and is committed to providing a safe, secure and harassment free environment to its employees. Employees are aware of such policies & programs and are coming forward to utilize the mechanisms set in place. Employee Assistance Program instituted for employee’s health & well-being has benefitted numerous people. To ensure safety of employees, and especially women, a 24/7 transport system that comprise of 120 cabs and covers approximately 23,500 Kms per day is operational. A transport safety management system named TABNAV and an effective tracking system has been implemented to act as a deterrent to any kind of untoward incident/accident. A zero incident /accident in the past few years has been achieved. Labour Principle Assessment Policy & Goals: CSS Corp is an equal opportunities employer and it is ensured that there will be no discrimination based on sex, caste, religion, residence etc. It is our constant endeavour to ensure the rights and dignity of individuals of every stakeholder is respected. Implementation: As an equal opportunities employer, there is no discrimination of employees’ right from our recruitment process to the entire employee life cycle. We follow fair business practice, in accordance with applicable law in our geography. The Supplier Code of Conduct ensures our suppliers, agents, service providers, channel partners, dealers, distributors and vendors are also in compliance with these values. CSS Corp strictly prohibits underage employment and complies with all local government regulations in the countries we operate. The global employee handbook, “Empower You” clearly defines CSS Corp as an equal opportunity employer, discrimination and harassment free employer, anti-bribery and anticorruption employer with effective redressal mechanism in place. CSS Corp provides equal employment opportunities to all applicants and employees regardless of age, colour, class disability, gender, gender identity, genetic information, marital status, national origin, race, religion, sexual orientation and status or amnesty as a covered veteran in accordance with applicable federal state and local laws. Outcomes: Employees are aware and have agreed to comply by the standards prescribed in “Empower You” – the global employee handbook through constant reinforcement of the same via internal mails and the company intranet WIRED. Anti-Corruption Principle Assessment Policy & Goals: CSS Corp is committed to maintaining the highest ethical standards and vigorously enforces the integrity of its business practices by not engaging in bribery or corruption wherever it operates throughout the world. CSS Corp’s policy on Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption forbids bribe in any form to secure business and protects the whistle blower from retaliation. Implementation: The Policy is laid out in simple terms to ensure that it is not open to interpretation and is easy to understand and implement. We have also established a CSS Corp Office on Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption with cross-functional team members. Outcomes: The Policy shall be regularly reviewed by the Company to ensure that it reflects any changes in laws and developments in acceptable standards for the conduct of business. Employees are required to identify and avoid situations which are at odds with the policy. Key stakeholders ensure that they are aware of the policy and any changes made to the same through internal communication. They can also view and update themselves through an internal portal.
