United Nations Global Compact ANNUAL COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS Issued: 21-AUGUST-2014 O P T I M I T Zagreb, 21 August 2014 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT ANNUAL COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS Company Name OptimIT Date 21 August 2014 Address Heinzelova 60b Membership date 23 May 2013 HR-10000 Zagreb Country CROATIA Number of 17 employees Responsible Denis Trupec Contact name for Mirela Bošnjak Dozan person Managing Director COP Executive assistant E-mail denis.trupec@optimit.hr E-mail mirela.bosnjak@optimit.hr Phone +385 1 7897301 Industry Software development O P T I M I T Page 2 of 8 Nature of business OptimIT is a Croatian IT company, specialized in custom software development on Open Source platforms. The main areas of expertise represent Document Management Systems, as well as Content Management Systems, eCommerce and Electronic Data Interchange (EDI). OptimIT analyses, develops, and maintains software solutions according to customer requests, adding value through expert knowledge, and offering integrated solutions on a turn-key basis. Furthermore, OptimIT offers consulting services in information system integration and project management, as well as custom system development. Solutions delivered by OptimIT are based on JEE technologies and integrate leading edge Open Source platforms and operating systems. OptimIT has a long history of successfully completed projects in the area of telecommunication, IT, media industry, governmental agencies and international organizations. Consequently, its experts possess extensive experience in international environment with clients based in Croatia, Austria, Luxembourg, Slovenia, Denmark, United Kingdom and Serbia. OptimIT adopted ISO 9001:2008 and ISO 14001:2004 norms for quality and environment management systems and is committed to secure its market position as the leading force in the region and be at your service. O P T I M I T Page 3 of 8 Statement of support Since we learned about the UN Global Compact initiative and joined the UN GC “family” in 2013, we perceived the initiative and the principles of the UN GC as in accordance with principles and goals of our company. It is my personal belief that business should promote sustainable development in everyday business activities as valuable investment in the future of Mankind and our Planet. I herewith confirm our long term commitment to the United Nations Global Compact goals. It is our intention to support and implement the UN GC principles continuously in the future whenever possible. Denis Trupec, Managing Director GENERAL INFORMATION Company name: OptimIT d.o.o. Head office: Heinzelova 60b, 10 000 Zagreb, Croatia Owners: Mr. Denis Trupec, Mr. Damir Kovačić, Mr. Goran Petanjek and Mr. Goran Jakovljević Business type: Software development Year established: 28 December 2001 Managing Director: Denis Trupec Contact Person for COP: Mirela Bošnjak Dozan O P T I M I T Page 4 of 8 Corporate Vision, Mission and Value OptimIT is a propulsive company committed to creating optimal information systems and solutions aimed at improving our clients’ business processes, enabling them to use information technology in a simple and effective way. The company was established in 2001 and is privately owned. It enjoyed steady organic growth and currently holds 17 employees. The headquarters and the main office are located in Zagreb, Croatia. The company is primarily oriented to provision of IT services and software development. Thus all of our staff are proficient in English language, hold university degree and are skilled IT professionals. In our work, we pay special attention to our clients' satisfaction, focusing on establishing long term relationships with our partners. We are committed to comply with professional and ethical norms of the industry and continuously enhance the quality of our services. With that purpose in mind we have adopted the worldwide accepted ISO9001:2008 standard for quality management systems in three disciplines: Software production, Computer systems design and IT services as well as ISO14001:2004 standard for environmental management systems. OptimIT is a part of UN Global Compact; we support and promote ten principles of human rights, labour rights, environmental protection, anti-corruption and social responsibility in our business activities. OptimIT considers its employees the greatest asset and believes that their exceptional performance and skills are fundamental to company’s success and quality of our services. It is our mission to provide our customers with the best IT solutions. We are aware that our employees' knowledge, experience and competence are an uncompromising precondition to do so. Therefore, our team consists of experts. All project leaders hold master or bachelor degrees in the field of computer science and have rich work experience in an international environment. It is our wish to secure our position on the market as a leading force in the region and be at your service. We offer designs, development, support and maintenance services primarily focused on the Open Source and JEE technology stacks. Whether we design and develop an entirely new solution or upgrade existing ones, OptimIT offers competent people; coherent and motivated project teams with long experience in working together as well as the state-of-the-art proven technology. We use the best practice methodologies and norms, plan and manage our projects carefully thus insuring the top quality of our products and services. We are completely client-centred in our work and create an ideal IT solution that will optimize business processes. O P T I M I T Page 5 of 8 UN Global Compact Principles The UN Global Compact asks companies to embrace, support and enact, within their sphere of influence, a set of core values in the areas of human rights, labour standards, the environment and anti-corruption: Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Human rights policies are already incorporated into our corporate culture, system of values, management style, and day-to-day business activities and communication. All our business processes and business relations are kept free from any human rights abuse. We are small company and as a small team we work close to each other in one big and comfortable office space. We care for the pleasant working atmosphere and we are colleagues who helping each other in all business situations. We adopted Rules of Procedure and we chose a Commissioner for the protection of the dignity of employees. Also in our Office we have suggestion box. Our management board is always available for any suggestion and any questions, whether they are business or private nature. Our company have no experience with human rights violations. We do business in accordance with the regulations related to human rights and labour rights. O P T I M I T Page 6 of 8 Labour Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Our employees are the core of our business and success. We strive to create a working environment based on positive approach to relationships with others, where individual differences are honored and valued. Respect for the individual is one of our company's core values, reminding us all to treat people as we would like to be treated ourselves. We adopted Rules of Procedure and we chose a Commissioner for the protection of the dignity of employees. All our workers are employed in accordance with the Labour Law of the Republic of Croatia. All of them have health and pension insurance. Our employees are well informed about labour rights. In this moment in our team we have 17 employees, 6 women and 11 men in age between 23 and 44. Our employees are Croatian nationality and coming from different regions of Croatia. Our company don't have experience with incidents of violations of the Global Compact Labour principles. Our clients are companies and organizations from different countries and our employees have experience of working in an international and multicultural environment. O P T I M I T Page 7 of 8 Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. We are constantly working on harmonizing the ethical, environmental and economic values of our business activities in a way necessary for a sustainable development. OptimIT has in place certified quality management system according to the ISO 9001:2008 standard. In this context, company established software development methodology and variety of procedures aimed at ensuring quality of deliverables, but also excellence in communication and organization of everyday working activities. We also hold ISO14001:2004 standard for environmental management. In our work, we pay special attention to using environmentally friendly technologies and recommend so to our clients. Software applications we create conserve paper, energy and work time in fully functioning office. The company regularly takes care of economical use of electricity and water. We also take care that paper, glass and plastic are placed in special containers for further recycling. Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. We are committed to conducting our business in accordance with local and international regulations and procedures concerning anti-corruption. We are particularly intolerant towards any form of extortion or bribery from any part. Transparency of our business is our imperative. Our company operates transparently in all areas of work and regularly submits financial reports. Ethical principles of the company are based on respect for the Constitution and laws of the Republic of Croatian, which shall comply with all employees. The Code of Ethics is incorporated into the Rules of Procedure. It regulates the behaviour of employees, performing work in accordance with the highest standards of the profession and the obligation to keep business secrets. Our Company don't have experience related to corruption and bribery. Most of our clients are international companies and organizations. O P T I M I T Page 8 of 8
