The network that connects us all Integrated Annual Report 2014 Our mission We believe in a society in which communication technology enriches life. It is our mission to provide safe, reliable and future-proof networks and services, enabling people, businesses and organizations to be connected anytime, anywhere, adding value to their lives. Our brands CONTENTS 13 Introduction 02 Introduction by the CEO Case studies Throughout our Integrated p. 04 Review of the year 2014 Annual Report 2014 you will 06 Our business find various case studies 08 The world around us highlighting how we make 10 Stakeholder engagement our customers feel free. Strategic Review 14 Our strategy 16 The value we create 29 33 Report by the Board of p. p. Management Group performance 20 Our main achievements in 2014 22 Financial results and outlook 26 Shareholder returns 27 Tax strategy and policy 37 28 Innovation and investments 30 Quality and reputation p. 53 34 Our people 38 40 Our suppliers Environment p. 44 Privacy & Security 48 KPN Group in 2014 Segment performance 52 Consumer Mobile 54 Consumer Residential 59 56 Business 60 64 NetCo Belgium p. 66 iBasis 55 68 76 Risk Management and Compliance Regulatory developments p. Governance 78 Corporate Governance 58 82 Composition of the Boards p. Report by the Supervisory Board 86 Supervisory Board Report 90 Remuneration Report Assurance Report on Sustainability Information 101 Independent Assurance Report Financial Statements 61 104 Consolidated Financial Statements 174 Corporate Financial Statements 180 Other Information p. Appendices in report 188 A  ppendix 1: Analysis of adjusted 63 results 2014 190 Appendix 2: Overview of main p. CSR targets and achievements 192 Appendix 3: Scope, reporting process and materiality determination 196 Appendix 4: Glossary of terms Digital appendices For an overview of our social and environmental figures, GRI index and all CSR KPIs, please see www.kpn.com/annualreport KPN — Integrated Annual Report 2014 01 INTRODUCTION Introduction by the CEO Eelco Blok, CEO People like to be online Basic necessity 4G network wherever they are. To We want to give millions of clients a feeling of freedom every day with our products Improving customer satisfaction is in no small part thanks to the success of 4G. emphasize the power of and services, because we realize the We completed the nationwide roll-out connection, we launched significance they have in people’s daily lives, their work and society. For many, of our 4G network in the spring of 2014, so our clients can enjoy the benefits the campaign ‘Feel free’ in it has become a basic necessity to be able of super-fast mobile internet everywhere. spring 2014. With this simple to be online all the time and everywhere. Appreciation for our performance is Whether it’s to access a video in a remote area, mail large files or quickly check the and powerful message we growing, as reflected in a continued soccer scores, it’s all possible with 4G. demonstrate how our positive trend of customer satisfaction scores. It shows without a doubt that we Having a best-in-class mobile network is absolutely essential for KPN. Our mobile services and products enrich are on track with our strategy, which is fully network in combination with our fixed lives, adding value to society. focused on providing an excellent service to our customers. It makes me realize network, is what differentiates us as the only integrated service provider. Our how important the contribution of our customers don’t even notice anymore employees is. I’m happy to see employee whether they are online via a mobile engagement in 2014 is 5% higher than or a fixed connection. in 2013. We see a growing culture of collaboration at KPN, and this is essential for us to become the best service provider. 02 KPN — Integrated Annual Report 2014 Financial stability KPN charity fund We keep on raising awareness among From a financial perspective we have made I certainly want to mention the latest customers on privacy and security issues good progress in 2014. Although revenue campaign in the Netherlands by the KPN and on how we support them in protecting and EBITDA still declined, we gradually Mooiste Contact Fonds, called ‘Hallo, is daar their privacy by providing secure products improved the trends in each successive iemand?’ (Hello, is anyone there?). We want and services. We also want to do more to quarter of 2014. to inspire people to connect with others, help our clients and our suppliers save especially people from vulnerable groups energy and make the results of these efforts The final approval on the sale of E-Plus for whom social contact isn’t a given. It also more measurable. We want to contribute by the European Commission at the end shows how our products and services make substantially to further developing a wide of August was a financial and strategic a substantial contribution to society. For range of ICT applications. Here we think benchmark for us. Besides an attractive example, KlasseContact, the fund’s biggest about sustainable living, working more 20.5% stake in Telefónica Deutschland, project, uses our technology to keep safely and simply via the cloud, remote the sale yielded us EUR 5 billion in chronically ill children connected to their surveillance, location-specific transport cash, improving our financial flexibility classrooms and to their school friends. In applications and, of course, affordable and substantially. The strengthened financial 2014, we helped 540 chronically ill children accessible healthcare. I’m convinced we can position provides us with a solid platform and we aim to connect 1,250 in 2015. have an increasingly positive influence on to execute our strategy, and also allowed the way people live and work in almost us to recommence dividend payments. Crucial services and external recognition every sector of society. KPN has a natural bond with Dutch society that stretches back many years. We are Room to innovate “Knowing that we can be closely linked to the Netherlands in every KPN wants to help the Netherlands advance connected with one another way and in almost every sector. As Dutch society grows ever more dependent on and be an example in Europe. The quality of the country’s infrastructure already ranks anytime, anywhere gives ICT and telecoms services, the services high on international lists. In fact, when us a feeling of freedom and we deliver become more valuable, helping the economy and society to advance and it comes to internet speed, the Netherlands is at the top of the league in Europe. While adds an extra dimension to become more sustainable. This includes we can take pride in this, it is far more our life and work” providing crucial services for the police, defense force and transport sector; important for us to realize the fundamental contribution that our high-quality ICT applications for healthcare; and infrastructure can make to the country’s Eelco Blok, contributing to more efficient energy use economic growth. If businesses, CEO – just a few examples of our efforts and organizations and the government take achievements in the social sphere. Inclusion full advantage of the opportunities and in renowned international indices confirms benefits offered by ICT and telecoms, and Our customers are our central focus in we are working on the right things. We are if innovation is a top priority for all, then everything we do. We still have a way to listed in the global Dow Jones Sustainability I’m certain the Netherlands will become go, particularly in the business market. Index for the third year in a row and the stronger and bolster its competitive BASE Company continued to be successful Carbon Disclosure Project has named us position in Europe. ICT and sustainable with its Challenger strategy in Belgium, as the world climate leader (together with economic growth go hand in hand. If the focusing on postpaid and data growth KT Corp) in the telecoms sector. We have Netherlands shows what it can do when supported by high network quality, price strengthened our ambition and aim to it comes to ICT, and if innovation gets the leadership and service leadership. become climate neutral in 2015. space it needs, then we’ll be an outstanding example and confirm our reputation as a Board of Management Looking forward country of knowledge and innovation. The sale of E-Plus has cleared the way for a Driven by the excellent operational further simplification of our organizational momentum we have seen a stabilizing structure. Creating a flatter organization financial performance through successive with short lines and more direct functional quarters of 2014. Supported by the benefits guidance from the Board of Management, from the simplification program, we expect together with a simplified portfolio of adjusted EBITDA to have stabilized by the products, will help us achieve a breakthrough end of the year and a growing free cash in customer satisfaction. The Board of flow in 2015. We want to further reduce Management has been strengthened by our costs. The downside of some of the the appointment of Jan Kees de Jager in 2014 necessary measures is that we have to let and Frank van der Post, who will take office go a number of our colleagues. I regret that in 2015. this is one of the inevitable consequences. We aim to enhance the sustainable employability of our people to make sure they are best sorted to find new jobs. Therefore, we offer them training programs and actively monitor the success rate of our redeployment programs. We continue our efforts to make our management more diverse. KPN — Integrated Annual Report 2014 03 INTRODUCTION Review of the year 2014 From the introduction of April our 'Feel free' campaign ýý Eelco Blok reappointed as Chairman to the completion of our 4G of KPN’s Board of Management roll-out in the Netherlands ýý Mr. Sickinghe and Mrs. Zuiderwijk and high 4G coverage in appointed as members of the Supervisory Board Belgium. The 12 months ýý KPN’s LTE broadcast tested successfully of KPN summarized on at Amsterdam ArenA two pages. January ýý Tweakers announced KPN as best mobile provider ýý CloudNL is introduced as the first completely Dutch cloud service ýý ACM fined KPN for putting competitors at a disadvantage in a government tender February May ýý 4G fast internet also available abroad ýý KPN reached an agreement on the new Collective Labor Agreement and ýý Fairphone introduced in KPN stores Collective Defined Contribution pension ýý KPN announced a simplification program plan in the Netherlands that will result in at least EUR 300 million ýý KPN and Hi doubled the amount of MBs of savings within three years; the in their EU internet bundles program includes an FTE reduction of 1,500 to 2,000 ýý BASE Company launched a new product portfolio for business customers, containing the new BASE business cloud March ýý KPN’s 4G network first to reach nationwide coverage in the Netherlands ýý ‘De Coolste Baan van Nederland’ welcomed more than 100,000 visitors ýý ‘Feel free’ campaign launched in the Netherlands 04 KPN — Integrated Annual Report 2014 June ýý Consumentenbond announced Simyo, KPN, Telfort and Hi to be the best mobile providers ýý KPN increased the capacity and speed of its 4G network and confirmed KPN’s leading 4G position with activation of LTE Advanced ýý KPN no longer placed under intensified supervision by the Netherlands Authority for Consumers & Markets (ACM) September November ýý Jan Kees de Jager appointed to KPN’s ýý KPN announced the appointment of Frank July Board of Management van der Post as Chief Commercial Officer as of March 1, 2015 ýý KPN again listed in the Dow Jones ýý KPN and Fon started roll-out of Sustainability World Index ýý KPN acquired remaining 40% stake in nationwide KPN Wi-Fi network Reggefiber and obtained full ownership ýý KPN sponsor of the year 2014 ýý KPN official partner ‘Eredivisie’ ýý Dutch Railways (‘NS’) and KPN announced ýý KPN won a large contract to build a ýý KPN introduced extended versions signing of a five-year contract for IT services CDMA network for Alliander Groep of KPN Compleet, providing our customers with new combinations of fixed and mobile services October December ýý New broadband portfolio launched; realizing ~85% reduction in the number ýý KPN global climate leader in the telecom ýý Following the 4G launch in 2013, BASE of propositions sector according to CDP Company reached coverage of > 80% of the Belgian outdoor population ýý KPN main partner of the Alert Online cyber security campaign ýý KPN announced an additional FTE reduction of up to 580 FTE at KPN’s ýý ACM analysis of the Dutch Business segment and 200 new FTE telecommunication markets concluded positions in the Consumer segment that KPN must continue to grant its competitors access to its network for ýý Dutch Telecompaper’s ‘Word of Mouth’ the next three years score showed customer satisfaction at KPN had improved most in the mobile ýý iBasis, KPN and China Mobile were the telecommunications sector in Q3, first globally to execute international compared with Q4 2013 VoLTE roaming successfully ýý Implementation of eco-rating for ýý Introduced goal alert for 4G customers mobile phones ýý KPN recommenced dividend payments August ýý KPN in top 25 of the best employers ýý F  inal approval for the sale of E-Plus by European Commission KPN — Integrated Annual Report 2014 05 INTRODUCTION Our business Anytime, anywhere: at home, at work and on the move. We connect people and businesses through our network, skilled employees and suppliers. As an integrated ICT service provider on the Dutch market and a challenger in the Belgian mobile market, we play a significant role in shaping the marketplace. Our reliable and secure services We offer our consumer customers data broadband services, IPTV services, mobile (voice, data and SMS) and fixed line telephony. For business, we offer broadband services, mobile, fixed line and data services. We also offer consultancy, data center storage and other network-related ICT data broadband IPTV services data center storage data network solutions (optionally cloud based). Security services services of both our networks and services is of key importance as well as always respecting the privacy of our customers. With our products and services, we connect people, companies and organizations. This requires a high-quality fixed and mobile infrastructure that is reliable, stable and mobile telephony fixed line telephony consulting other network energy efficient. That is why we invest related ICT and every year to renew, improve and maintain security solutions our fixed and mobile networks. 06 KPN — Integrated Annual Report 2014 Our network and services mobile fixed-line data data telephony telephony network center services storage Our secure network With our network IP TV we Mobile anddata fixed network other ýý Datacenters offer IT services, housing services broadband consulting network connect a crucial part Mobile and fixed networks connect the customerservices at his or her location with the and hosting to business customers for our own infrastructure and related ICT of all areas of society. closest part of the KPN network. Mobile and ýý Fixed telephony via PSTN/ISDN issolutions fixed networks consist of copper and fiber handled by many switches and its own cables, Wi-Fi Access points and antennas in network around the country. VoIP is towers in combination with the wireless handled by central platforms spectrum (for Mobile and Digitenne). Core network Service platforms Our nationwide core network connects our services The services of KPN are delivered via the access networks and service platforms platforms with dedicated software to serve our customers. for that specific service. ýý All mobile voice and SMS are handled Privacy & Security by one platform connected to several Security and privacy functionality is switches in various locations in the integrated in all parts of our network Netherlands and Belgium in order to keep information safe and ýý A central cloud-based IPTV platform protect the privacy of our customers. handles all streaming of TV channels and on-demand media 2G ýý Data platforms manage the data 3G connections for our business customers and the internet 4G mobile network fixed network households offices antenna street cabinet upgraded copper fiber to home to home and business and business IPTV Voice IT data storage service core network platforms KPN — Integrated Annual Report 2014 07 INTRODUCTION The world around us Communications technology is transforming the way people work, socialize and do business. The impact of our services is far-reaching and directly benefits the economy, the environment and society. At the same time, there are many factors influencing our business. Our relevant topics and sustainability focus We continuously look at the world Fulfill a leading role Take responsibility around us to analyze trends, stakeholder 1 Financial performance 11 Training expectations and relevant topics 2 Sustainable employment 12 Customer loyalty 3 Privacy & Security 13 S afe customer behavior considering our impact, influence and 4 Climate & energy 14 Sustainable suppliers the value we can create being an ICT 5 Impact of ICT applications on societal issues 15 Electromagnetic fields and radiation provider. Our analysis results in an 6 Diversity 16 Human rights and discrimination overview of relevant topics and is input 7 Innovation & investments 17 Digital participation for our sustainability focus, our strategy, 8 Indirect economic impacts 18 Health & vitality targets and activities. 9 Restructuring 19 Equal remuneration 10 Compliance 20 Ethical complaints procedures 21 Marketing communications We differentiate between three 22 Resource use categories of relevant topics. The first 23 Car fleet category consists of topics on which we want to fulfill a leading role, considering our possible influence and impact and Significance to stakeholders the expectations expressed by our Low material stakeholders. The second category 2 1 (See Appendix 3) includes topics where we want to Medium material High material show our responsibility. The last category shows topics we monitor, 4 but do not report on, as their relevance 6 5 3 is considered to be limited by our stakeholders and ourselves. For more 13 information on this process and an 14 overview of the topics with limited 9 10 7 15 relevance, please see Appendix 3 22 11 16 8 ‘Scope, reporting process and 12 materiality determination’. 21 18 17 20 19 23 Significance to KPN 08 KPN — Integrated Annual Report 2014 What are the main developments in the world around us? From the competitive landscape in the Netherlands to requirements on privacy and from the Internet of Things to changing customer behavior, we monitor trends and respond. On this page you will find an overview of the most important events that affect us. Customer behavior Telefónica Deutschland’s acquisition ýý New technology such as software of E-Plus in Germany, which was defined networks will improve cost ýý Business customers continue to migrate completed in October. In the Netherlands, efficiency in many sectors. to IP-based services. cable company Ziggo was acquired by ýý KPN’s infrastructure is vital to ýý There is growing demand for cloud Liberty Global, which also owns UPC accommodate these developments, computing and hosting, security, and Netherlands. Several further consolidation in terms of data speed, capacity and machine-to-machine (M2M) services. processes are ongoing in the European our products and services. ýý At the same time, revenues from these telecommunications landscape. new services are not fully offsetting the ýý The Dutch government is considering Healthcare decline in the Dutch business market, regulation that will allow it to influence caused by companies downsizing and foreign control over Dutch companies ýý ICT can make a real difference rationalizing their IT spend. that offer vital telecommunications to healthcare in the future. ýý On the consumer side, there is a infrastructure for the Netherlands – such ýý The Netherlands has an aging growing dependence on the internet. as KPN – in order to protect Dutch population with related healthcare This creates a responsibility for KPN to national security interests. needs. To control costs and increase continuously improve the quality of our the quality of life of elderly people, networks and services to facilitate this Privacy & Security the political focus is shifting towards important trend. care in the home and self-sufficiency. ýý More people and businesses are using ýý Patients are expected increasingly to Economy, regulations and cloud services to store their personal mobilize support from friends and family the competitive landscape and professional data. (participation society), rather than ýý Being one of the largest suppliers of depending on healthcare organizations. ýý The global economy is showing signs security services, we are responsible ýý Innovative wireless ICT applications are of slow recovery, although the overall for providing a secure network that vital to developing remote healthcare. picture remains fragile. Uncertainty keeps information safe and protects KPN’s network, services and applications about the economic climate continues, people’s privacy. can be significant in keeping healthcare partly because of growing global ýý Cyber attacks are a real threat, especially accessible and affordable. geopolitical turbulence during 2014. in a climate of increasing geopolitical ýý Regulation, both at European and tensions, underlining how crucial a Energy national level, continues to have a strong secure internet infrastructure is. impact on our industry. In addition to ýý Despite privacy concerns, many ýý KPN, together with KT Corp, is the regulation of KPN as a party with consumers still choose to install apps number one telecoms operator in significant market power in certain parts on their devices that access personal the global ranking of the CDP (former of the market in which it operates, further data as a condition of their use. Carbon Disclosure Project) in the regulation of international roaming rates reduction of CO2 emissions. This and the continued debate on netTechnological developments position stimulates us to do more neutrality may impact our business. to help our suppliers and customers ýý Regulatory authorities and other ýý The growth of the ‘Internet of also to save energy. supervisory bodies continue their close Everything’ – machine-to-machine ýý The use of more electronic devices and scrutiny of market players in all sectors. communications – combined with big data requires more energy; however, KPN maintains an open dialogue with data and applications is creating new the use of ICT can also help customers these authorities, most notably the services and products that will transform in reducing energy use and costs. Authority for Consumers & Markets, the way we work and live. It is applied in ýý The Dutch government is committed to the Dutch telecoms regulator, to align education (smart self-learning systems), a National Agreement to save energy and expectations and discuss observations smart meters, smart factories, smart transition to sustainable energy sources, about our sector. healthcare systems and smart homes, confirming our own ambition to operate ýý Consolidation in our sector is increasing. as well as in robotics, self-driving cars, an energy-efficient network on green The European Commission cleared local energy production and 3D printing. energy and become climate neutral. KPN — Integrated Annual Report 2014 09 INTRODUCTION Stakeholder engagement We are fully aware that KPN has an impact on different stakeholder groups in society, each with its own interests. We are in continuous dialogue with our stakeholders. We listen to their opinions and act upon their feedback and suggestions. We feel very connected to our Being accountable, we take our stakeholders’ stakeholders. Our customers and other interests seriously by delivering clear and stakeholders constantly communicate transparent reports on what we are doing. experiences and opinions on social media, The results of our businesses, our which gives us ample opportunities to contribution to society and organizational analyze what they want and need and to changes show our commitment to our respond. We also have to find ways to stakeholders – our customers, employees, investigate their needs when they are investors, government, NGOs and others offline and create an open dialogue with – while our products, services and activities our stakeholders about their observations should prove that we are working on the and suggestions. things they value most, and take into consideration all of their varying interests. We engage with our stakeholders via various channels, such as organized We defined seven stakeholders groups. stakeholder dialogue sessions, (in)formal Their expectations, the way we engage in contacts and social media in order to listen dialogue, their main topics addressed in to and map their expectations and their 2014 and our corresponding actions, are main topics. elaborated on in the following pages. 10 KPN — Integrated Annual Report 2014 Our stakeholder groups: Retail customers Business customers Employees What they expect What they expect What they expect Our retail customers expect high-quality Business customers expect effortless ICT Our people expect us to be clear when it service for the right price. This includes solutions that make a difference to the way comes to the strategic direction and focus failure-free networks, clear propositions they work. This means delivering solutions of our businesses and expect (executive) and processes, a quick and proper response that allow their employees to work and management to be inspiring. They want to questions and complaints and good collaborate at any time, from any place on straightforward business processes with communication. They want propositions any device with high user experience. It also effective cross-departmental collaboration. and advice that meet their needs. means business continuity, secure services They appreciate the way we work together and good quality of service. Our customers and feel supported by their managers and How we engage expect simplicity in managing their ICT colleagues. Employees also expect us to We talk with our retail customers in services, good online tools, professional take their interests into consideration when our stores, via our call centers and our service and advice from technical experts. we restructure processes. mechanics. We also interact through They expect us to guide them so they benefit customer panels, market research and from ICT developments. How we engage ‘superpromotors’ – loyal and enthusiastic We facilitate a continuous dialogue supporters of KPN. We monitor what is said How we engage with our employees through initiatives about KPN on social media, both positive We talk with our business customers via our such as management cafés, national and negative. We also use tools, such as account managers, in our XL stores and our strategy sessions, the annual employee the Net Promoter Score and Reptrak, to contact centers. We also engage through survey, regular contact between senior monitor our reputation. customer panels, market research, round management and the Works Council and table discussions, workshops connecting our interactive intranet TEAMKPN Online. Their main topics in 2014 customers’ strategies with KPN’s and social ýý Providing the best mobile network with media through our B2B platform KPN Their main topics in 2014 the lowest amount of disturbances Inspire. We organized the RijksmuseumTop ýý Being an attractive employer for ýý Making sure that products and services for about 350 business associates. our current and future employees are easy to use ýý KPN to become warmer and more ýý Freedom of choice regarding use of data Their main topics in 2014 customer focused ýý Providing a high-quality TV offer ýý ICT as a service ýý Development of employees and ýý Sincere and proactive advice about the ýý Privacy & Security managers: the right motivated person best possible subscriptions. ýý New ways of connectivity in the right place and collaboration. ýý Employee engagement as an enabler Our response of business success. ýý We completed the nationwide coverage Our response of our 4G network and further improved ýý We integrated Business segment and IT Our response our 2G and 3G networks. We enhanced Solutions to one combined department: ýý Active involvement of and support from the standard speed of our 4G services Business segment (Integrated ICT all employees, e.g. in culture sessions in ýý We improved our IPTV menu which made Solutions), fitting the customer need for which company values were recalibrated navigating through the options easier integrated telecom and ICT services and and desired behavior was defined ýý We enhanced the amount of ‘are bringing opportunities for efficiencies ýý Recruiting the right employees and you happy calls’ in which we ask our for KPN developing our current employees by customers whether their subscription ýý We are further optimizing our products offering training programs still meets their needs. We ask customers portfolio and have reduced the number ýý Focus on people and customer orientation; who contact us with a problem or of price plans good, fair and open communication question if they are still satisfied with ýý We have programs in place to improve ýý We facilitated discussions with employees the package of services they obtain from our customer service on labor conditions and we surveyed us. We started offering multibrand ýý We introduced Cloud NL (Dutch Cloud) their preferences through the PrefScan solutions if this fits customer’s needs and guarantee that all data stored there ýý NetCo developed ‘het Ontwikkelhuis’ ýý We continued our NPS improvement are in the Netherlands in order to help employees find their program to improve customer loyalty ýý We made progress on integrated ICT way in their craftsmanship development ýý We further enhanced our converged solutions with one customer interface ýý Employee engagement results and services, resulting in improved ýý We further developed vertical culture aspects have been integrated products such as an extended partnerships to create business solutions in strategic plans, year plans and version of KPN Compleet. for customers, for example with local performance management and in government, healthcare institutions day-to-day operations and culture. and educational organizations KPN — Integrated Annual Report 2014 11 INTRODUCTION Stakeholder engagement Community Investor community Suppliers What they expect What they expect What they expect People expect us to be socially and The investor community – financial markets, Our suppliers expect to agree on fair environmentally responsible and to our shareholders, debt investors and prices, conditions and to be paid on time. be a good corporate citizen. They want research analysts – expects us to be extensive products and services that help to solve and transparent. We should be clear in our How we engage social and environmental issues. strategy, objectives and outlook, and We have one central Corporate Procurement transparent about executive remuneration. Organization (CPO) within KPN that is How we engage Their main interest is our commitment to responsible for contracting deals with We are active in working groups initiated creating value. They want timely and suppliers. We work as much as possible by NGOs and participate in or liaise with accurate updates and ample opportunity with preferred suppliers that add value to organizations such as the European to seek clarification and ask questions. our supply chain by delivering against the Telecommunications Network Operators’ best terms and conditions. This allows us Association (ETNO), International Telecom How we engage to negotiate lower prices while maintaining Union (ITU), United Nations Global We organize key corporate events such as the quality of our products and services. Compact Foundation, Dutch Association the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders, In addition, we make sure the principles of of Investors for Sustainable Development capital markets days, and meetings with our suppliers’ CSR policies are in line with (VBDO) and the ICT Coalition. Furthermore, analysts, credit rating agencies and investors our own. The CSR targets related to suppliers we organize an annual dialogue with during roadshows and conferences. We also are part of the target sheet of the employees stakeholders to discuss our contribution provide relevant company information within the CPO organization. We are to society and the desired next steps. through timely press releases and regular constantly in touch with our suppliers We continually evaluate our CSR themes, publications such as our quarterly results and invite them to our annual Supplier Day. policies and current business with the and integrated annual report. Increasingly, we are partnering with them CSR Advisory Board. on environmental solutions. Their main topics in 2014 Their main topics in 2014 ýý Best-in-class fixed and mobile networks, Their main topics in 2014 ýý The CSR Advisory Board suggested we and continuing good operational trends ýý Finding ways we can work together to show leadership in recycling mobile leading to stabilizing financial performance reduce the cost level in a sustainable way phones and increase the number we ýý Completion of the sale of E-Plus leading ýý Reduction of payment terms. collect. They also advised us to focus even to increased financial flexibility. more on secure Dutch Cloud solutions Our response and on a thorough privacy policy Our response ýý In 2014, we initiated and started the ýý Our main CSR stakeholders advised us to ýý We realized nationwide 4G coverage Partner Board, a regular consultation keep a careful balance between striving and ~50% of the households have access opportunity with our preferred suppliers. for the maximum environmental result on to >100Mbps on our hybrid FttH / We aim to meet with these suppliers the one hand and the best desirable social upgraded copper access network every three months to discuss projects outcome on the other hand ýý Continuous gradual improvement of and new opportunities ýý The VBDO was critical about our our financial performance ýý KPN and several suppliers agreed supposed lack of a clear statement ýý We increased our financial flexibility to reduce payment terms. on our role as a tax payer. They also with EUR 5.0 billion in cash from the questioned us about calculating the proceeds of the sale of E-Plus and a impact of our activities. 20.5% stake in Telefónica Deutschland, offering attractive synergy potential Our response ýý We recommenced dividend payments ýý We took steps to measure the impact ýý We completed a EUR 2.0 billion bond of our CSR activities tender optimizing the efficiency of our ýý We reformulated our tax strategy & policy balance sheet. ýý We enable our customers to save energy by no longer storing recorded television programs on hard disk, but in our Cloud ýý We launched a campaign on the KPN Mooiste Contact Fonds ýý We now use 100% green electricity in the Netherlands and Belgium ýý We invited over 100 stakeholders for an event in a Gemeentemuseum and a dialogue in the Rijksmuseum. 12 KPN — Integrated Annual Report 2014 Government and regulators Dialogue and inspiration in the Rijksmuseum What they expect KPN and the Rijksmuseum have a special In October, we organized a major Government and regulators expect us to bond. As lead sponsor, KPN is allowed to stakeholder dialogue relating to our CSR comply with the rules and regulations and make exclusive use of the wonderful halls themes. Here too, the inspiring location meet the requirements for licensing. Their of the Rijksmuseum at various times of and fabulous works of the Rijksmuseum goal is, amongst others, to create a level the year. The halls form the backdrop contributed to a fruitful discussion. playing field and protect the interests of for business and client events and Besides that, Rembrandt’s ‘Night Watch’ end users. They expect us to run Dutch stakeholder meetings. For instance, took center stage in a workshop to show critical infrastructure. we organized the RijksmuseumTop for that what we think we see is not always our 350 top-level business associates what we actually see. After this plenary How we engage and their partners, with a view to session the guests entered into a dialogue We proactively engage with government strengthening our bond with the on themes such as ‘Energy Efficiency’, and regulators. As the incumbent in the Netherlands. Freedom, the theme that ‘Privacy & Security’, ‘Healthcare of the Netherlands, there are special obligations KPN introduced into its campaigns this Future’ and ‘The New Way of Living & imposed on us, in particular to enable year, was also featured in the program. Working’. Referring to the dialogue about competition. We engage in a continuous Together with representatives from the ‘KPN in Society’, in which he took part, dialogue to explain our compliance efforts world of business, the public sector, Giuseppe van der Helm, director of the and results. government, politics, the media and VBDO, commented: “In addition to public administration we took a look transparency about targets and progress, Their main topics in 2014 at freedom in the arts. The curators of a lively dialogue with a wide range of ýý Avoiding non-compliance the Rijksmuseum devised a tour specially stakeholders is essential in order to put ýý Integrity, for example in cases of for this occasion. It showed how artists sustainability into practice. Such a regulatory capture by the government perceived their freedom and painted dialogue can determine what themes ýý EC approves Telefónica take-over of about freedom, and whether or not they are material to KPN and what the level E-plus and the ACM decided to clear the were free in the techniques they used. of ambition ought to be.” full acquisition of Reggefiber by KPN. For the next three years, ACM wants KPN to continue to grant its competitors access to its network ýý Concerns about national (cyber) security. Our response ýý We continued our compliance efforts through programs such as optimizing our business control system, external reviews, benchmarking, enhanced compliance training and top management meetings focused on and stimulating company culture ýý We continuously work to meet compliance requirements through clear and practical legal advice, clear operational procedures, related control mechanisms, and clear and safe ways to report potential misconduct. We interact closely with the ACM in relation to compliance, incidents and potentially different views on the interpretation of the law ýý We are active on the EU level as an individual company and via trade associations ýý We have ongoing discussions with political and governmental stakeholders ýý We held the annual compliance survey for our employees ýý We have an annual e-learning program for our employees. KPN — Integrated Annual Report 2014 13 STRATEGIC REVIEW Our Strategy Our three strategic pillars Strengthen Invest in best-in-class networks Focus on Privacy & Security We have a focused strategy, based on three pillars: to strengthen, simplify and grow. In Reduce environmental impact 2014 we further integrated our CSR policy in our strategic principles. Our strategy is focused on optimizing our societal contribution, addressing customers’ current and future needs. By doing so, we Maintain a solid financial believe we maximize our value for all our stakeholders. During the profile year, we reassessed our strategic themes in an interactive dialogue with our stakeholders. This reconfirmed our chosen CSR themes, which fit perfectly in our strategy: strengthen, simplify and grow. Simplify Simplify our products CSR themes in our strategy and services portfolio Strengthen Simplify the organization Best-in-class networks: Our network is inextricably linked with and its operating model the Netherlands. We aim to provide best-in-class networks. Privacy & Security: We believe in secure products and services for everyone, and highly value the privacy of our customers. Our specialized teams keep vigilant watch over our networks, systems, Improve transparency and our customers' data – 24 hours a day, seven days a week. and reliability Energy efficient: We do everything possible to make the company increasingly energy efficient. Being close to climate neutrality ourselves, we now focus on the use of energy in the whole supply Grow chain and by our customers. We also provide creative ICT solutions to help other sectors save energy. Improve market position and customer satisfaction Simplify and loyalty Transparent, reliable service provider: We aim to be the best service provider. We simplify our business in order to ensure that our customers’ experience the highest-quality products and services, always, everywhere and from any device, with Develop multiplay 24/7 support. propositions further Grow The New Way of Living & Working: When it comes to work and Develop services that help life, time and place are increasingly irrelevant. We support people to solve societal issues in to work anytime, anywhere. This enables them to create a good sectors such as healthcare work-life balance, that also saves CO2. and transportation Healthcare of the Future: We believe that innovative ICT is necessary to keep top-quality healthcare available and affordable to everyone in the Netherlands. And we want all, both patients and healthcare providers, to benefit from that. 14 KPN — Integrated Annual Report 2014 What we did in 2014 What we will do in 2015 ýý The first to offer a 4G network with national coverage ýý Always be accessible for customers by a combination ýý Increased the speed on our copper networks with new of upgraded copper, fiber and 4G connections techniques (~50% of the households have access to >100Mb/s) ýý Move towards a single IP core ýý Continued the roll-out of our fiber network in the Netherlands ýý Continued the implementation of our security policy to improve ýý Keep pace with the security developments and try to remain our overall security posture and define activities that contribute one step ahead of those looking to abuse our services or trying to our customers’ digital security to steal confidential information ýý Participated in and contributed to important initiatives to strive ýý Help our customers in becoming more aware of issues to make the internet safer for children regarding privacy and social media ýý Helped customers who were unintentionally infected by malware ýý Supported customers in saving energy by providing ýý Become climate neutral for our own operations (scope 1 and 2) information and offering more energy-efficient services for KPN Group ýý Recycled 31% of sold mobile phones in the Netherlands ýý Increase recycling of fixed customer equipment ýý Reduced absolute energy consumption although data ýý Help our customers to reduce their environmental impact communication volumes keep growing ýý Expand our focus from climate impact to environmental impact ýý Introduced IPTV functionality in the cloud, reducing energy use ýý Carried out our sustainable strategy and maintained our ranking in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index (world), became CDP world climate leader and acquired a top three position in the Transparency Benchmark ýý Sold E-Plus, which has led to a solid financial profile, providing ýý Free cash flow growth expected in 2015 a strong platform to execute our strategy in the Netherlands, Belgium and for iBasis ýý Reduced the number of propositions for consumers ýý Continue to simplify our propositions from a customer perspective and businesses ýý Simplified the governance structure ýý Further simplify the governance structure ýý Simplify processes and systems (e.g. billing) ýý Transform to a more customer-centric organization with fewer management layers ýý Simplified our IT ýý Improve transparency of offers and bills ýý Improved customer feedback process ýý Further optimize the online customer experience ýý Offered customers opt-in choice for sharing personal data on traffic and roaming with KPN ýý Gained full ownership of Reggefiber ýý Maintain high quality of service ýý Continued focus on customer needs resulted in an increased ýý Further integrate services, telecommunications and ICT customer satisfaction (NPS) ýý Maintain front-runner position in leading benchmarks ýý Offered market-leading IPTV proposition supported by ýý Increase NPS continuous improvements in IPTV ýý Rewarded customers with incremental benefits ýý Serve our customers based on an integrated approach ýý Introduced bundled services with more freedom of choice: ýý Introduce new cloud services KPN Compleet and KPN ÉÉN ýý Focus on growth for Mobile ýý Achieved strong base growth in IPTV ýý Improved quality of life in several sectors, e.g. by connecting ýý Cooperate even more strongly with business customers 4,297 healthcare locations and providing 38,696 customers and partners in developing new services with personal comfort services ýý Increased use of services that make the New Way of Living & Working possible ýý Connected 540 chronically ill children with their classmates KPN — Integrated Annual Report 2014 15 STRATEGIC REVIEW The value we create We believe in a society where communications technology enriches life. It enhances day-today business and can make a real difference. ‘Feel free’ For our employees For our customers People want to be free to connect with the Our people are crucial when it comes to Our customers expect us to deliver on our world around them, on their own terms. providing excellent service to our millions of promises. That is why our service should They want the freedom to connect when customers. They are KPN. As an employer, we never stop until the customer is completely they want, with whom they want, from give them the resources and opportunities to satisfied. This applies in our phone shops, at anywhere, at any time. Having the freedom unlock their potential and employability. We home, at work, via a contact center or online. to choose how they interact with people, equip them to use their experience, expertise Our customers receive incremental benefits; information, entertainment, companies and and enthusiasm to deliver a flawless service they are rewarded for their confidence in KPN. organizations makes people’s lives easier and that allows individuals, families, businesses We use our knowledge and experience to more enjoyable. This is the value we create. and organizations to feel free and connected. develop new ways of communication that are accessible and available for all. We maintain This could mean, for example, the freedom For society and innovate our networks so that we can to stay at home with a medical device rather For more than 130 years, our fixed always deliver what our customers want. than being monitored in a hospital. Or and mobile networks have kept people giving an Alzheimer’s patient the freedom connected. Combined with our data centers, For our shareholders to move about independently because his this makes us unique in the Netherlands. Investing in customer service is investing or her movements can be traced, bringing Crucial sectors such as transport, health, in our shareholders. They too benefit from peace of mind to caregivers. It also gives education, the police and the defense force our long-term focus on the highest level of people the freedom to work at remote all rely on our infrastructure. We believe customer satisfaction. In combination with locations rather than commute to the office, contact with others should be self-evident, sound financial management, a strong market which is better for the environment and but for some people it is not that obvious. position and stable profits, we are convinced eases traffic congestion. That is why we also focus on keeping elderly this is the key to a sustainable dividend policy people and chronically ill children connected and satisfied shareholders. to the rest of society. 16 KPN — Integrated Annual Report 2014 Better future for Better future for Better (work)life for Sustainable and attractive our employees society our customers total shareholder returns ýý Sustainable employability ýý Confidence in vital services ýý Freedom to work anytime anywhere ýý Sustainable and growing dividends ýý Work-life balance and autonomy ýý Contribute to societal issues by with secure, trustworthy ýý Excess cash could be utilized for saving energy, time and money telecommunications services operational and financial flexibility, in several sectors ýý A connected life, anywhere, anytime (small) in-country M&A, and ýý Making efficient use of the shareholder remuneration planet’s resources outcomes engaged integrated secure critical long-term best-in-class profitable a solid employees products and services for customer ICT networks business reputation services the Netherlands relationships/ loyal customers business activities providing opportunities running the infrastructure provide a positive building an effective, to employees to invest and development of customer journey (energy) efficient and in their future products and services secure infrastructure inputs skilled key financial network and licenses and regulatory 100% green employees partnerships resources customer patents framework electricity and customer equipment from insights preferred suppliers KPN — Integrated Annual Report 2014 17 Report by the Board of Management “Further simplifying our organization, processes and products will make a substantial contribution to cost reduction” Jan Kees de Jager, Chief Financial Officer 18 KPN — Integrated Annual Report 2014 Group performance 20 Our main achievements in 2014 22 Financial results and outlook 26 Shareholder returns 27 Tax strategy and policy 28 Innovations and investments 30 Quality and reputation 34 Our people 38 Our suppliers 40 Environment 44 Privacy & Security 48 KPN Group in 2014 Segment performance 52 Consumer Mobile 54 Consumer Residential 56 Business 60 NetCo 64 Belgium 66 iBasis 68 Risk Management and Compliance 76 Regulatory developments Governance 78 Corporate Governance 82 Composition of the Boards Report by the Supervisory Board 86 Supervisory Board Report 90 Remuneration Report Assurance Report on Sustainability Information 101 Independent Assurance Report KPN — Integrated Annual Report 2014 19 REPORT BY THE BOARD OF MANAGEMENT — GROUP PERFORMANCE Our main achievements in 2014 Through our services, products and network we ensure that people and businesses are online anywhere and anytime, with whatever device they choose. That is where our strength lies. EBITDA Capital expediture Free cash flow EBITDA margin in billions of EUR in billions of EUR in billions of EUR 5 1.75 1.60 39.6% 4 1.40 1.20 37.3% 3 37.4% 1.05 0.80 2 35.4% 0.70 0.40 34.0% 1 0.35 0.0 1.5 1.6 0.6 0.5 -0.2 0 4.1 3.8 3.3 2.9 3.0 0 1.3 1.4 1.6 1.6 1.4 -0.4 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Strengthen % Households % Households Network accessibility Estimated reduced energy consumption >40 mb/s >100 mb/s k by KPN customers in 20142 norm >99% in petajoules 77% (2013: 70%) ~50% (2013: N/a) 100 80 5 4 3.798 0.770 60 3 % Recycled mobile phones 0.185 of total number sold mobile 40 2 0.200 phones in the Netherlands 31% 20 1 0 X.X X.X X.X 99.6% 99.7% 0 X.X n/a n/a n/a 2013 2014 Total energy consumption KPN Group (2013: 6%) Reduction by Teleworking Reduction by Conference Card Reduction by Colocation & Housing Energy consumption % of Dutch people who believe their data is safe with KPN1 in petajoules 5 75 4 60 3 45 2 30 1 15 0 4.518 4.336 4.119 3.977 3.798 0 X.X X.X 66% 69% 69% 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 n/a n/a 2012 2013 2014 1) Measured as ‘top 3 companies where my data 2) Energy savings resulting from the use of our are safest’ from a list of 12 key telecoms/ ICT solutions by customers compared with internet providers in the Netherlands. our own energy consumption. For more information, please see p. 40-41 of this report. 20 KPN — Integrated Annual Report 2014 Net debt/EBITDA Earnings per share Reputation in EUR Reptrak pulse score 3.0 1.25 75 2.4 1.00 60 1.8 0.75 45 1.2 0.50 30 0.6 0.25 15 0.07 0.04 0 2.2 2.3 2.7 2.4 2.8 0 1.15 1.06 0.14 0 X.X 61.6 63.5 62.6 69.7 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 n/a 2011 2012 2013 2014 Simplify Grow Reduction in # of propositions Customer loyalty Base growth IPTV ~65% for Consumer Mobile Net Promoter Score in the Netherlands 0 +17% (2013: 35%) -13 -14 -11 -10 -3 ~85%  -3 for Consumer Residential -6 Number of 4G subscribers -9 ~20% for Business market -12 -15 2,065K (2013: 543K) 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 FTEs Number of healthcare Year-on-year % growth in the locations connected Netherlands of services that make the as of December 31 New Way of Living & Working possible1 5,000 75 4,000 60 3,000 45 2,000 30 1,000 15 5% 26,234 26,251 21,495 18,949 18,471 0 X.X X.X 4,038 4,319 4,297 0 X.X 71% 17% 43% 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 n/a n/a 2012 2013 2014 n/a 2011 2012 2013 2014 1) Unweighted average of mature and growth products. KPN — Integrated Annual Report 2014 21 REPORT BY THE BOARD OF MANAGEMENT — GROUP PERFORMANCE Group financial results In 2014, we made good progress on our operational results. There was customer base growth in nearly all main consumer and business services in the Netherlands. At the same time, we also see a strong improvement in customer satisfaction. NPS for KPN brands in the Netherlands reached an all-time high in 2014. Group financial results reflect the strong competition across all segments and investments in our customer base growth and networks. See Segment performance for more details on our operational performance and the impact on financial results. In Belgium, we continued to focus on executing our Challenger strategy. Our high mobile network investments in the last two years strengthened our network quality and led to more than Financial results 80% 4G coverage at the end of 2014. and outlook In 2014, KPN made good progress with the Simplification program, realizing run-rate capex and opex savings ahead of plan at approximately EUR 140 million year-on-year and approximately 700 FTE reductions. Following the good progress in 2014, the run-rate capex and opex savings target has been increased from more than EUR 300 million (as announced in February 2014) to more than EUR 400 million by 2016 compared with 2013. The sale of E-Plus has allowed us to strengthen our financial position (see section on Disposal group held for sale – Sale of E-Plus below). All KPN Group figures presented are based on KPN’s continuing operations Net debt at the end of 2014 was EUR 2.5 billion lower compared with and do not include the financial results of E-Plus, unless stated otherwise. the end of 2013 and gross debt was EUR 3.8 billion lower. E-Plus was classified as held for sale and discontinued operations. Group financial results are discussed in more detail below. Overview highlights, KPIs & other targets Key figures Highlights Group financials (in millions of EUR, FY FY ∆ unless stated otherwise) 2014 2013 y-on-y ýý Adjusted Group revenues reflects customer base growth, price Revenues 8,083 8,472 -4.6% pressure in the mobile market and the declining business Adjusted revenues 8,024 8,442 -5.0% market size EBITDA 3,015 2,883 4.6% ýý Adjusted EBITDA reflects the impact of phasing out of handset Adjusted EBITDA** 2,573 3,022 -15% lease and investments in customer base growth EBITDA margin 37.3% 34.0% ýý Improved year-on-year financial performance through Adjusted EBITDA margin 32.1% 35.8% successive quarters of 2014 Operating profit (EBIT) 1,195 1,026 16% ýý Completed sale of E-Plus to Telefónica Deutschland Profit for the period from continuing ýý Strengthened financial position operations (net profit) 239 293 -18% ýý Recommenced dividend payments Capex 1,412 1,616 -13% Free cash flow -169 489 n.m. Revenue EBITDA € 8,083m € 3,015m (2013: € 8,472m) (2013: € 2,883m) 22 KPN — Integrated Annual Report 2014 Revenues and other income EBITDA Group revenues and other income from continuing operations Group EBITDA from continuing operations increased by 4.6% were 4.6% or EUR 389 million lower compared with last year. or EUR 132 million compared with 2013. Positive impact from customer base growth as discussed above was offset by the impact of the ongoing decline of the business Decline in Group revenues and other income, having direct EBITDA market size. impact, and the higher subscriber acquisitions costs due to the phasing out of the handset lease was mainly offset by the EUR 477 Revenues and other income (in millions of EUR) 2014 2013 ∆ million release of pension provisions discussed in more detail on KPN Group – continuing operations 8,083 8,472 -4.6% page 25 and lower personnel expenses. KPN Group – continuing operations adjusted1 8,024 8,442 -5.0% EBITDA was impacted by a restructuring cost of EUR 84 million (2013: EUR 122 million). Adjusted EBITDA from continuing Germany (including discontinued operations) 2,428 3,197 -24% operations was 15% lower year-on-year. The net positive impact Belgium 711 728 -2.3% of incidentals on EBITDA in 2014 amounted to EUR 526 million Other (including eliminations) 33 41 -20% (2013: net negative impact of EUR 17 million). Mobile International 3,172 3,966 -20% EBITDA (in millions of EUR) 2014 2013 ∆ Consumer Mobile 1,407 1,510 -6.8% KPN Group – continuing operations 3,015 2,883 4.6% Consumer Residential 1,916 1,962 -2.3% KPN Group – continuing operations Business 2,920 3,201 -8.8% adjusted1 2,573 3,022 -15% NetCo 2,262 2,343 -3.5% Other (including eliminations) -2,050 -2,214 -7.4% Germany (including discontinued operations) 729 963 -24% The Netherlands 6,455 6,802 -5.1% Belgium 149 192 -22% Other (including eliminations) -8 4 n.m. iBasis 948 969 -2.2% Mobile International 870 1,159 -25% Other (including eliminations) -140 -169 -17% Consumer Mobile 191 410 -53% Consumer Residential 404 375 7.7% KPN Group – including discontinued Business 590 706 -16% operations 10,435 11,568 -9.8% NetCo 1,241 1,297 -4.3% of which discontinued operations 2,352 3,096 -24% Other (including eliminations) 24 -33 n.m. The Netherlands 2,450 2,755 -11% Adjusted Group revenues and other income from continuing operations were 5.0% lower year-on-year. iBasis 23 29 -21% A settlement with the Dutch tax authorities, for excess taxes Other (including eliminations) 403 -101 n.m. paid by KPN in the period 2013-2014, led to a reimbursement of EUR 74 million in Q4 2014, of which EUR 30 million related to 2013 KPN Group – including discontinued (classified as an incidental) and EUR 44 million related to 2014. operations 3,746 3,842 -2.5% Other incidentals include a release of revenue-related provisions of which discontinued operations 731 959 -24% of EUR 17 million (against an accrual of EUR 13 million in 2013) and income from the sale of fixed assets of EUR 5 million. Other Incidentals in 2014 include the positive impact from the tax incidentals in 2013 included proceeds from the sale of a subsidiary settlement benefit and release of pension provisions discussed (EUR 23 million). above. Other incidentals in 2014 include adjustments of deferred revenue of EUR 5 million, EUR 3 million costs related to the phasing out of SNOW, the fixed offering in Belgium, and release of incidental provisions of EUR 17 million. The incidentals in 2013 included releases of asset retirement obligations related to mobile sites for EUR 11 million, adjustments of deferred revenue of EUR 20 million and the booking of incidental provisions of EUR 78 million. KPN — Integrated Annual Report 2014 23 REPORT BY THE BOARD OF MANAGEMENT — GROUP PERFORMANCE Financial results and outlook Operating profit Cash flow, free cash flow Group operating profit (EBIT) from continuing operations Free cash flow from operating activities from continuing increased by EUR 169 million compared with 2013 (16%) due operations for the year 2014 was EUR 658 million lower compared to EUR 132 million higher EBITDA and EUR 37 million lower net with 2013, mainly due to non-recurring items such as the impact depreciation, amortization and impairment charges. of pension agreements and reduced supplier payment terms. Operating profit (in millions of EUR) 2014 2013 ∆ Cash flow (in millions of EUR) 2014 2013 ∆ Operating profit from continuing operations 1,195 1,026 16% Operating profit from continuing operations 1,195 1,026 16% Net finance costs -903 -757 -19% Depreciation and amortization 1,820 1,857 -2.0% Share of the profit of associates and joint Interest paid/received -705 -654 7.8% ventures -6 -7 14% Tax paid/received 38 -253 n.m. Profit before income tax from continuing Change in provision -887 -191 >100% operations 286 262 9.2% Change in working capital -224 162 n.m. Income taxes -47 31 n.m. Other movements – -21 n.m. Profit for the period from continuing operations 239 293 -18% Cash flow from operating activities from continuing operations 1,242 1,926 -36% Profit/loss (-) for the period from discontinued operations -823 -508 -62% Capital expenditures from continuing operations -1,412 -1,616 -13% Profit/loss (-) for the period including discontinued operations -584 -215 >100% Proceeds from real estate 1 3 -67% Tax recapture E-plus – 176 -100% Free cash flow from continuing operations -169 489 n.m. Net finance costs Net finance costs increased by EUR 146 million compared with 2013, mainly driven by bond tender premiums. The lower free cash flow was mainly driven by less cash from working capital (EUR 386 million) including EUR 242 million Income taxes related to reduced supplier payment terms, EUR 345 million KPN qualifies as an innovative company and therefore benefits from lower EBITDA amended for the EUR 477 million pension provision an agreement with the Dutch tax authorities with regard to the releases, EUR 235 million payment related to pension agreements application of innovation box tax regime. The innovation tax and EUR 51 million higher interest payments (including accrued regime is a facility under Dutch corporate income tax law whereby interest of EUR 47 million related to the bond tender). These items profits attributable to innovation are taxed at an effective rate of were only partly offset by EUR 204 million lower Capex and 5%. Due to the application of the innovation tax facilities, KPN’s EUR 115 million lower taxes paid in 2014. effective tax rate in the Netherlands is reduced from the statutory tax rate of 25% to approximately 20%. In 2014, KPN recognized a Cash and cash equivalents tax expense of EUR 47 million, mainly related to our operations in At December 31, 2014, cash and cash equivalents amounted The Netherlands (EUR 38 million) and Belgium (EUR 3 million). The to EUR 1,976 million, compared with EUR 3,946 million at effective tax rate for KPN’s continuing operations for 2014 is 16.1% December 31, 2013. In addition, KPN Held EUR 300 million (2013: -11.5%), mainly due to several settlements with the Dutch tax held-to-maturity investments (under other current financial authorities mostly related to previous years. The effective tax rate assets)as part of its liquidity management. was significantly influenced by one-off effects, and a change of the mix of profits and losses in the various countries. Without one-off Capex effects the effective tax rate for KPN’s continuing operations would Capex decreased to EUR 1,412 million in 2014 compared with have been around 21% in 2014. The effective tax rate (continuing EUR 1,616 million for 2013, mainly due to lower customer driven operations) is expected to be approximately 20% in the 2015-2016 investments (including phasing out of handset lease) and savings period. For further information on the tax impact of the sale of driven by the Simplification program (approximately EUR 70 million). E-Plus, refer to paragraph ‘Disposal group held for sale’ below. Net profit Net profit from continuing operations decreased by EUR 54 million, 18% lower year-on-year, as the increase in EBIT was not sufficient to fully offset the impact of higher financial expenses as a result of the bond tender. 24 KPN — Integrated Annual Report 2014 Pension position Disposal group held for sale: Sale of E-Plus In 2014, the implementation of a Collective Defined Contribution The sale of E-Plus was completed in 2014. KPN sold and transferred pension plan (‘CDC pension plan’) was approved for both the main 100% of its interest in E-Plus to Telefónica Deutschland. KPN plan (‘KPN PF’) and the Senior Management plan (‘KPN OPF’) as of received EUR 5 billion on a cash and debt free basis and a 20.5% January 1, 2015. The approval of the new CDC pension plan was stake in Telefónica Deutschland. The transaction will unlock recorded as an amendment of the existing pension plans and estimated synergies, from which KPN will benefit through its reduced the pension provision by EUR 467 million (EUR 451 million 20.5% stake in Telefónica Deutschland. KPN PF and EUR 16 million KPN OPF). This release was recorded in KPN’s Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss as a reduction of the The 20.5% stake in Telefónica Deutschland is accounted for as an pension expenses. Under the new CDC pension plans, as of January available-for-sale financial asset in KPN’s Consolidated Statement 1, 2015, KPN will have no other obligation than to pay the annual of Financial Position (see Notes 13 and 19 of the Consolidated fixed premium (as a percentage of the pensionable base) and Financial Statements for further information). Any dividends therefore these plans will be accounted for as defined contribution received and/or capital gains (proceeds above tax book value) plans. At December 31, 2014, after the lump-sum cash payments of realized on the stake will be subject to Dutch corporate income EUR 230 million, the remaining pension provisions relating to the tax. KPN can utilize the deferred tax asset related to the sale of KPN PF and KPN OPF were fully released (plan settlement). E-Plus to offset income related to the stake as well. Also in 2014, amendments to the existing pension plans of SVG In 2014, KPN recorded an additional impairment related to the sale (the former Getronics pension fund) and the transfer of active of E-Plus of EUR 1,265 million. The tax book loss related to the sale participants as per January 1, 2015 to the KPN PF, were approved of E-Plus increased to EUR 5 billion, resulting in a total deferred tax which resulted in a reduction of the pension provision of EUR 10 asset of EUR 1,188 million at December 31, 2014, limiting KPN’s million (recorded in KPN’s Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss taxable income in the Netherlands in the coming years. as a reduction of the pension expenses) and a lump-sum cash payment of EUR 5 million. In 2013, KPN recorded a release of the Use of proceeds pension provision of EUR 28 million (related to KPN PF and KPN OFP) KPN is using the majority of the cash proceeds of the sale of E-Plus as a result of amendments to the plans due to new fiscal legislation. to increase its financial flexibility. This includes amongst other: ýý Bond tender The pension provision remaining at December 31, 2014 of ýý Regular bond redemptions EUR 316 million includes the (closed) pension plans of Getronics ýý Reggefiber consolidation UK and Getronics US as well as certain early retirement schemes ýý Reggefiber debt redemption in the Netherlands. For more information about KPN’s pension ýý Pension fund agreements plans, reference is made to Note 23 of the Consolidated ýý Reduced supplier payment terms Financial Statements. Financial outlook Borrowings, bond issues ýý Adjusted EBITDA stabilized by year-end 2015 Bond tender ýý Capex < EUR 1.4 billion In November 2014, KPN completed a bond tender offer to reduce ýý Growing free cash flow (excluding TEFD dividend) gross debt and realign its financial profile with the new company ýý Additional cash flow via potential dividend from 20.5% stake profile. KPN repurchased an aggregate principal amount of EUR in Telefónica Deutschland 1.8 billion of eight Eurobonds with maturities between 2016 and 2024. KPN settled certain interest rate swaps and cross-currency Following the sale of E-Plus, KPN recommenced dividend swaps related to the Eurobonds maturing in 2016, 2019, 2020 payments with an interim dividend in respect of 2014 of EUR 0.02 and 2024. The tender was financed with available cash. per share, or in total EUR 85 million, which was paid on October 13, 2014. KPN intends to pay a total dividend per share of EUR 0.07 in respect of 2014. The final dividend of EUR 0.05 per share is expected to be paid in April 2015. KPN intends to pay a total dividend per share of EUR 0.08 in respect of 2015. The dividend per share in respect of 2016 is expected to grow further. KPN remains committed to an investment grade credit profile and expects to utilize excess cash for operational and financial flexibility, (small) in-country M&A and/or shareholder remuneration. KPN — Integrated Annual Report 2014 25 REPORT BY THE BOARD OF MANAGEMENT — GROUP PERFORMANCE In 2014 KPN has undertaken a number of actions that reduced future liabilities and contributed positively to the credit profile by increasing KPN’s financial flexibility and visibility. The attractive 20.5% stake in Telefónica Deutschland provides additional flexibility and upside via potential dividends. KPN remains committed to an investment grade credit profile and expects to utilize excess cash for operational and financial flexibility, (small) in-country M&A and/ or shareholder remuneration. KPN Shareholding1 Estimated geographic breakdown (based on institutional holdings) United States 20 – 25% Mexico 20 – 25% United Kingdom 10 – 15% The Netherlands 0 – 5% Shareholder returns Canada Rest of Europe 0 – 5% 15 – 20% Rest of World 0 – 5% Other2 15 – 20% 1) Source: Nasdaq Shareholder ID Q4 2014. 2) Retail, broker/trading and other. Share ownership América Móvil published on February 10, 2015 that they owned 21.4% of KPN’s ordinary shares at December 31, 2014. Franklin Overview highlights Mutual Series and Discovery Capital Management have respectively indicated, by means of notifications the AFM, to have shareholdings Highlights which equal or exceed 3% of the issued capital. To KPN’s knowledge, ýý Recommenced dividend payments of EUR 0.07 in respect of no other shareholder owned 3% or more of KPN’s outstanding 2014, DPS of EUR 0.08 intended in respect of 2015, growing shares and there are no net short positions in KPN’s stock at further in respect of 2016 December 31, 2014. ýý Completed sale of E-Plus at attractive valuation; EUR 5 billion cash proceeds, and a 20.5% stake in Telefónica Deutschland Financial calendar 2015 ýý Taken number of important steps to reduce debt and other financial liabilities, significantly increasing financial flexibility January 9, 2015: Extraordinary General Meeting of Shareholders February 4, 2015: Publication of full year 2014 results April 15, 2015: Annual General Meeting of Shareholders Presentations for, and meetings with, investors and analysts are April 30, 2015: Publication of first quarter 2015 results held on a regular basis, including those in connection with the July 29, 2015: Publication of half year 2015 results publication of KPN’s quarterly results. On the same day as the October 27, 2015: Publication of third quarter 2015 results publication of the quarterly results, KPN organizes a presentation Note that these dates may be subject to change. that is broadcast live to ensure that all stakeholders receive the same information at the same time. In all these activities, KPN’s Share price 2014 Board of Management is supported by the Investor Relations department, which is at the investors’ and analysts’ disposal in EUR on a daily basis. 3.0 Shareholder remuneration 2.8 Following the sale of E-Plus, KPN recommenced dividend payments with an interim dividend in respect of 2014 of EUR 0.02 per share, 2.6 or in total EUR 85m, paid in October 2014. The proposed total dividend per share of EUR 0.07 in respect of 2014 will be presented 2.4 for approval to the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders to be held on April 15, 2015. The final dividend of EUR 0.05 per share is 2.2 expected to be paid in April 2015. KPN intends to pay a total dividend per share of EUR 0.08 in respect of 2015. The dividend 2.0 per share in respect of 2016 is expected to grow further. Dec Jan Feb Mar Apr Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2013 2014 2014 2014 2014 2014 2014 2014 2014 2014 2014 2014 KPN Dow Jones Telecom Index AEX Index Source: Bloomberg, prices rebased to KPN share price of EUR 6.71 on January 3, 2011 26 KPN — Integrated Annual Report 2014 Transparency We believe that transparency is a cornerstone of good tax governance. We regularly put forward understandable and timely communication about our approach to tax, our tax position and total tax payments on a country-by-country basis. We fulfill our disclosure obligations and are transparent to tax authorities. We support global initiatives of the OECD to promote tax transparency and responsible tax management. Relationship with tax authorities and other stakeholders We seek to maintain an open, honest and constructive dialogue with tax authorities based on transparency, respect and trust. Consequently, we disclose all relevant facts and circumstances. In the Netherlands, this is embedded in Enhanced Supervision (‘horizontal monitoring’) where we aim to enhance clarity and Tax strategy and policy upfront certainty around tax. To this end, we engage proactively with Dutch tax authorities. We meet on a regular basis to ensure that our business dealings are better understood and to exchange views and insights on various (tax) matters. This open, two-way communication enables us to minimize uncertain tax positions. Our other stakeholders such as NGOs and interest groups should note that our Corporate Tax Department is aligned with the business and is not a profit center by itself. We welcome constructive debate on taxation. We aim to show good corporate citizenship in the way we handle tax issues and communicate clearly about our strategy and policy on tax governance. Tax strategy Accountability and Governance KPN’s Corporate Tax Department is the focal point on all tax KPN’s Board of Management considers its Corporate Tax Department related matters and consists of experienced tax professionals who as a crucial partner within the business and expects the Corporate are in constant dialogue with KPN´s senior management and KPN´s Tax Department, while adhering to the tax policy, to provide clear, business. This ensures that KPN´s (senior) management is engaged timely, relevant and business focused advice across all aspects of and involved in all relevant tax matters. Within KPN we adhere to tax. Where alternative routes exist to achieve the same commercial our Code of Conduct ensuring our accountability and Governance. results, the Corporate Tax Department is challenged to recommend Our tax policy is in line with our Code of Conduct. On a quarterly the most tax efficient and responsible approach in the interest of all basis we report to the Board of Management on adherence to our stakeholders, while remaining compliant with all relevant laws, tax policy. regulations and international standards. Business rationale and transfer pricing Tax policy We do not enter into aggressive and contrived tax planning structures. We therefore do not use secrecy jurisdictions or KPN’s tax policy is embedded in five pillars: Compliance, so-called ‘tax havens’ solely for tax avoidance, nor artificial tax Transparency, Relationship with tax authorities and other structures that have no commercial or operational substance. As stakeholders, Accountability & Governance, Business rationale we ensure that transfer pricing policies comply with applicable and transfer pricing. internationally agreed and recognized principles as outlined in the OECD guidelines, we report income in the countries where Compliance the value is created, applying the arm’s length principle. We commit ourselves to behave responsibly at all times, which is integral to ensuring the long-term sustainability of our business. We act in accordance with applicable tax laws and regulations and are guided by relevant international standards (for example OECD (Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development) guidelines). At all times, we respect the spirit of the law. Where tax laws do not give clear guidance, prudence and transparency shall be the guiding principles. KPN — Integrated Annual Report 2014 27 REPORT BY THE BOARD OF MANAGEMENT — GROUP PERFORMANCE Fixed network Our vision is that the best way to facilitate the growing demand for high bandwidth services is by a balanced mix of Fiber to the Home (FttH) and copper upgrades. KPN already rolled out FttH to more than 2 million homes at the end of 2014, resulting in more than 25% homes passed in the Netherlands. This is the highest FttH coverage in Europe. Fiber is the superior technology for the longer term, but in the meantime we are upgrading our copper network with the newest technologies available to offer the highest possible broadband speeds. In 2014, we launched vectored VDSL and we already reach ~50% of Dutch households with download speeds of at least 100 Mbps. 77% of Dutch households can get download speeds higher than 40 Mbps, which is sufficient for simultaneously running high Innovations speed internet and two HD TVs. and investments Mobile network KPN executed a very fast roll-out of our 4G network in order to reach nationwide coverage as early as possible. We achieved this in March 2014, long before our competitors and only 16 months after acquiring the 4G spectrum license in December 2012. At the same time, we also renewed our 2G network, introduced UMTS900 to improve 3G quality, and added battery back-up to improve overall network availability. In November 2014, we entered a new phase in our 4G roll-out. We increased the mobile Overview highlights, KPIs & other targets network capacity by installing additional 4G equipment that also uses the 1800MHz frequencies, next to the 800MHz frequencies Highlights that are already in use. ýý Realized nationwide coverage 4G ýý Reduced number of propositions with ~65% in Consumer 4G facilitates innovation Mobile Segment and ~20% in Business Segment The nationwide LTE coverage opened up many new innovative possibilities, e.g. for the emergency services in the Netherlands. For example, fire brigade emergency rooms can now use live % of households 4G outdoor coverage high-quality video streams via 4G from cameras on firemen’s with >100 Mbps BASE Company helmets and fire trucks to better assess the situation. This increases the safety of the firemen and allows much faster ~50% 81% (2013: 36%) decision-making in the emergency room, e.g. calling for additional emergency forces when needed. Datacenters and cloud services We extended our ICT-portfolio in 2014 with an Infrastructure as a Service (IaaS) offer that is completely based on datacenters, Innovation networks and equipment in the Netherlands. This service is called IaaS CloudNL and allows business customers to flexibly rent storage, KPN continuously invests and innovates to provide the best fixed computing power and network capacity. The IaaS CloudNL service is and mobile networks, enabling our customers to communicate and very well suited for companies and large organizations that need to access services, information and content anywhere, anytime. As an store personal or confidential data on Dutch territory. The service is integrated access provider, we ensure a seamless user experience compliant with the Dutch privacy law and sector-specific rules e.g. with simple and transparent customer interfaces across networks for financial institutions and healthcare. and devices, for example with our IPTV service. Increasingly, we provide connectivity for machines, sensors, smart homes, Belgium buildings and smart cities (Internet of Things). We continued the roll-out of our 4G network and achieved 81% outdoor coverage at the end of 2014. For more details on Datacenters are becoming an increasingly crucial and integrated innovation in Belgium, please see p. 64-65 of this report. part of the ICT infrastructure to safely and efficiently handle fast growing amounts of data and usage of cloud based IT applications. Innovation and simplification Moving towards one converged IP core network Infrastructure and network innovation An important part of our network strategy is to ensure that the Our aim is to operate a best-in-class, reliable and secure ICT IP data transport and service systems in our core network are as infrastructure. We continuously invest and innovate to achieve standardized and generic as possible. This way it can serve as a this ambition. powerful, simple and secure backbone for all our services, whether it is fixed or mobile. In the past, we needed to build separate IP systems for different services, such as Fixed Broadband, IPTV, 28 KPN — Integrated Annual Report 2014 mobile and business networks. With the technology available We feel committed to support our customers in making safe and today, it is possible to simplify this architecture and we are now secure digital choices. We were one of the first global telecom executing the program to move from the mosaic of core networks operators to partner with the Blackphone initiative and the of the past to one state-of-the-art converged IP core network software of Silent Circle. See more on this initiative on page 45 which is optimized for huge data volumes. This simplification of this report. will improve network reliability and security and brings about significant cost advantages. Dilemma We need to invest continuously to maintain a best-in-class Simplification of portfolio, processes and IT network to attract and retain loyal customers. However, the It is our ambition to become the best service provider. In 2014, we cost-benefit analysis of innovations is strengthened when more started a simplification program focusing on simplification of our people use our network and use KPN products and services. The product portfolio, customer processes and supporting IT systems. fact that the costs of innovation investments always come before We are in the middle of a transformation to a customer-centric attracting customers and increasing use of our products and organization with a simple, low cost efficient operating model. services remains a dilemma. In 2014, we designed a simple converged product line-up with Ambition a strong focus on integrated bundles (KPN ÉÉN for business Our aim is to operate best-in-class, reliable and secure ICT customers and KPN Compleet for residential customers). In addition, infrastructure and services. We continuously invest and we have an active product life cycle management in place and are innovate to achieve this ambition and to contribute to continuously rationalizing our legacy product portfolio. In the fixed society and sustainable economic growth. Residential segment, we achieved about 85% reduction in the number of different products as of Q2 2014. Consumers can now choose between four KPN broadband propositions (FttH / copper combined). In the Consumer Mobile segment, we reduced the number of propositions under the KPN and Hi brands by about 65% as of Q3 2014. In the Business segment, we achieved about a 20% reduction during 2014. “We have the opportunity to innovate again” In the transition towards a customer-centric and efficient operating Barry de Bruin, model, we are also simplifying our processes. The introduction of the Director IT, Pathé Theatres bv new Business Support System (BSS) for our mobile services will result 10 years a customer in synergies related to customer processes and decommissioning of legacy IT systems in 2015 and 2016. Secondly, we focus on online “For a long while, we tried and migrations, as well as client processes. The digital journey of customers is the starting to maintain our central IT realizing an improvement in point for all processes and aims for a further shift to online sales environment ourselves, but that user satisfaction. We wanted to and service, which we believe will result in increased customer took up a lot of time and we find a partner for whom cloud satisfaction. We also further simplify and reduce our landscape still had dissatisfied users who computing was a core business. of networks, IT systems and applications to achieve a low cost complained about slowness and We found that partner in KPN operating model, leading to lower costs and shorter release instability. It cost us so much and its KPN Online Workstations cycles (time to market). time that our IT department cloud service. Admittedly, it was barely able to come up with took a while to get used to Products and services innovation new innovations. Keeping our working with a standardized We continuously improve our leading IPTV proposition to drive customers satisfied is one of our solution, but the results speak the growth of our bundled services. In February 2015, we were top priorities and switching to for themselves. No more one of the first providers to launch TV Everywhere that enables a cloud system turned out to be complaints from users and customers to record and watch TV programs on all devices, also the best solution. Our aim was our IT department is now free when not at home. TV Everywhere is enabled by our cloud-based to make no further investments to work on innovations.” PVR functionality and the high-quality KPN 4G network. in hardware, software, updates Healthcare of the future Care professionals, healthcare institutions, patients and ICTproviders need to be connected with each other. We launched ZorgCloud, a place where they can get access to all kinds of information systems and applications. So far, 4,297 healthcare institutions have sent each other hundreds of thousands messages through this closed infrastructure. Privacy & Security We are convinced that security is key to our business. We not only make sure our own networks are secure, but we also offer services to our customers that give them access to a secured digital highway where they are in control of the information they share. Over the past years, we have invested heavily in security in order to make sure that KPN can be even safer than it is today. KPN — Integrated Annual Report 2014 29 REPORT BY THE BOARD OF MANAGEMENT — GROUP PERFORMANCE strengthened by improving our networks, products and services but also by contributing to society. Also, by sponsoring initiatives connecting people, our key strength, we believe we can enhance the goodwill and reputation of our brand. Reputation We believe our reputation is not only the result of the products and services we offer and the degree to which our customers are satisfied, but is also influenced by the value we create for society. Our aim to improve our reputation focuses on all these items on a daily basis in order to improve the quality of our networks, the simplicity and clarity of our products and offerings, our stores, our service to customers and our CSR program. Reputation is first and foremost building on the things you do as a company. As the Quality and reputation largest Dutch telecom operator, we connect millions of people in the Netherlands and have an important role in enabling a digital society. Communications is there to support our activities and our aim to become the preferred ICT brand in the Netherlands. Our new brand campaign ‘Feel free’ shows that we want our customers to experience freedom in their digital life when they use our products and services. We also support our reputation management through our engagement in sponsorships, such as ice skating and the Rijksmuseum as well as our charity fund het KPN Mooiste Contact Fonds. For this, KPN was awarded Sponsor of the year at the yearly sponsoring conference in the Netherlands. Overview highlights, KPIs & other targets RepTrak results We use RepTrak to monitor our reputation. RepTrak, run by the Highlights Reputation Institute, monitors the reputation of the top 30 large ýý Improved NPS for all KPN NL segments (+2 for Consumer Dutch companies, including KPN, based on a survey among the Residential, +2 for Consumer Mobile and -13 for Business) Dutch public. Our reputation target is based on three attributes ýý Welcomed more than 100,000 visitors at the ‘Coolste Baan’ within RepTrak that influence our reputation most significantly. ýý Received recognition as ‘Sponsor of the year’ Two out of three attributes showed a positive trend during the year, ýý Launched national campaign for the KPN ‘Mooiste which indicates that we are on the right track and our improvement Contact Fonds’ activities are paying off. We have managed to outperform on two out of the three long-term targets for reputation and almost realized the third one as well. This is likely the result of all the Overall NPS KPN NL Value weighted media initiatives KPN undertook over the last years to improve customer exposure for our Olympic satisfaction, customer loyalty and our role in society. It is down to -3 campaign our focus on the quality, simplicity and clarity of all our products and services as well as investments in the networks, the stores 13.7m and service organization, in the reduction of energy use and other (2013: -10) aspects of corporate social responsibility as well as the KPN brand. Chronically ill children “Freedom through connection. provided with a KPN Classmate That is the core of the ‘Feel free’ campaign. New technology in our 540 (2013: 192) everyday lives is indispensable. That’s why we want to launch a friendly campaign that really appeals to the heart, a campaign demonstrating that KPN is there for In order to become the best service provider in the Netherlands all of us, now and in the future” we are strengthening our quality and reputation. We want satisfied customers and because of the important role of KPN in Yvette Belt Beekman, the Netherlands we need a solid reputation. Customers should feel Manager Marketing Communications KPN&Hi free, because they can rely on the highest-quality ICT products and services to connect them all the time, everywhere and from any device, and on a flawless service. Our reputation is not only 30 KPN — Integrated Annual Report 2014 Improvements reputation Dilemma Research performed by the Reputation Institute in 2012 showed We made a lot of progress in the development and application of three areas of improvement that would benefit our reputation: the our ICT device called KPN Classmate, which enables chronically ill quality of our products and service, the clarity of our communication children to stay in touch with their classmates. In 2014, the KPN and the way we do business with our customers. Classmate was runner-up in the Microsoft World Partner Conference Awards 2014. Although the device shows our technical capabilities Resulting from the research, we intensified our efforts to improve and is an excellent example of the way we connect people by using our customer loyalty and customer service. For more information, ICT, we have felt conflicted about communicating about vulnerable please see Customer Loyalty on this page. children and using our efforts and results commercially. We showed restraint for years and only this year, after many years of successful experience, are we telling what we do in our corporate campaign ‘Feel free’. “Freedom means going and being wherever you want, doing Ambition whatever you feel like. The Mooiste We aim to keep improving our reputation in the coming years. Contact Fonds enables me to give We will continue our involvement in products and services as well as events that create value for our customers, for example by someone a bit of that freedom” sponsoring the ‘Late Rembrandt’ exposition in the Rijksmuseum. We continue the implementation of our reputation and NPS Wilco van Schaik, improvement programs. Account manager and volunteer KPN Mooiste Contact Fonds For 2015, we have set our reputation targets on the average performance of the three attributes that influence our reputation most significantly. In 2014, we improved the transparency of our communication Customer loyalty towards customers. During the Winter Olympic year 2014, we strengthened our communication on our social themes and the Our efforts to become the best service provider in the Netherlands value we create for society. We were closely involved in organizing are focused on increasing customer loyalty by providing our the Dutch Ice Skating Championships on the ‘Coolste Baan’, the customers with excellent fixed and mobile networks, and products former Dutch Olympic Stadium in Amsterdam. We are proud that and services of high quality and user-friendliness. In 2014, we we successfully linked our reputation agenda with our business therefore fully focused on simplifying our product portfolio and agenda, resulting in value creation for our customers. We processes and we will continue doing so in 2015. We continuously welcomed more than 100,000 visitors, who came to skate with measure our performance in our customer base, using the Net their families or were present at other events such as the KPN Dutch Promoter Score (NPS) method. Championship All Round and Sprint. As part of our campaign during the Winter Olympic games in Sochi, we communicated nationwide Results 2014 how we support and contribute to Dutch skating. We are proud of Based on the positive developments of the NPS for several of the overwhelming results achieved by our national ice skate equipe our services, we believe we are doing the right things to achieve with a new gold medal record and gold medals on both team our goals on customer loyalty. We improved our overall NPS for pursuits. We have chosen to support the Team Pursuit discipline to Consumer Residential and Consumer Mobile as well as Business demonstrate the importance of cooperation in our company and we Market. Our average NPS for KPN brands in the Netherlands celebrated this and awarded KPN teams internally during our yearly increased to -3 (2013: -10). Within the Consumer Segment, an Strategy Update in May. increase in serviceand relation-perception is visible; more customers experience benefits and think of KPN as a provider that During the autumn, we launched a campaign to inform and engage offers the best service. The percentage of KPN Compleet customers, the Dutch public in the activities of the KPN Mooiste Contact Fonds. which has a higher NPS score, increased in 2014. 2014 was also a Social contact is not obvious for everyone. After seven years of successful year within the Business Segment; the NPS increased from facilitating socializing for elderly, physically disabled, chronically -18 to -13. The appreciation of the performance of our networks or severely ill children, we decided to tell the outside world about increased and so did the appreciation of several service aspects. our foundation. Part of the campaign is engaging everybody in the Netherlands to join and help to solve loneliness in their own vicinity. Propositions In 2014, we further simplified our portfolio in order to add We aimed to improve in ‘the way we do business with our benefits, make our services more attractive for our customers customers’ by simplifying our portfolio and our delivery and and to improve the efficiency of internal processes. For example, service processes. We will take further steps by changing the we offer combined fixed and mobile services to our customers organization structure in order to become more customer-centric. in the consumer as well as the medium and (since 2014) small business segments. Especially in the Consumer Segment, customers who obtain these fixed and mobile services reward us with a higher NPS than customers with separate contracts or subscriptions. We also phased out almost 600 old-style subscriptions, which led to a simplification for our customers. KPN — Integrated Annual Report 2014 31 REPORT BY THE BOARD OF MANAGEMENT — GROUP PERFORMANCE Quality and reputation Improvements in quality and service communicating transparently to our customers, providing them In 2014, we further organized our activities around continuous with our high-quality products and services that can simplify their improvement based on customer feedback. At almost every touch lives. Our target for the overall NPS is +3 for 2015. point (that is, where KPN and its customers interact), we started or enhanced the use of ‘closed loop feedback’ (CLF) as a daily way of Sponsoring: Connecting people working. With CLF, we survey our customers immediately after their contact with KPN. In this way, we receive direct feedback and are Our vision: our strength lies in connecting people able to act instantly when the customer is not yet satisfied. The guiding principles of our sponsorship policy are, as in our core activities, connecting people, reaching a wide audience and NPS results on touch points enhancing the goodwill towards the KPN brand. We focus on three main areas: offering smart ICT solutions enabling people to stay NPS NPS in contact (via the KPN Mooiste Contact Fonds), sport and culture 2014 2013 sponsorships. We also make a connection between employees Customer Contact Centers Consumer Residential* +5 +0 and society. KPN employees are able and encouraged to volunteer Customer Contact Centers Consumer Mobile* -7 -24 in projects run by the KPN Mooiste Contact Fonds. KPN XL stores* +34 +33 KPN regular shops* +25 +19 KPN Mooiste Contact Fonds KPN Field Force (engineers) Consumer Residential* +50 +44 The KPN Mooiste Contact Fonds provides projects with long-term Webcare Consumer Market +27 N/a support, as well as with support for starting initiatives. Our Contact Center Business Market SoHo* +3 -3 ambition is to combine our people and our technological Contact Center Business Market Small & Medium, Large and Corporate* +15 +8 resources to the best advantage. Recommendation score large accounts 7.1 N/a Recommendation score corporate accounts 7.2 7.1 In 2014, we started a corporate campaign to raise awareness of the KPN Mooiste Contact Fonds objective: our commitment to * For this touch point, Closed Loop Feedback has been started or enhanced vulnerable groups in Dutch society for whom social contact is not in 2014. obvious. We made progress on our project KlasseContact with partner EDventure. In 2014, we enabled 540 chronically ill children The activities to improve our service when in contact with our at home to communicate with their class via the ‘KPN Classmate’, customers led to higher customer satisfaction levels at several an ICT device which is placed in the classroom. This means we did customer interfaces (such as customer contact centers and stores). not reach our target of 550, because there were no more requests For example, the performance of an agent (friendliness, expertise for a ‘KPN Classmate’ and thus we fulfilled the demand. We try to and responsibility) has the highest impact on the NPS of contact involve as many (former) employees and partners as possible in the centers and scored best, but waiting time and products have less KPN Mooiste Contact Fonds. In 2014, 1,286 employees and partners impact and scored lower. However, our customers are not yet volunteered 1,955 times for several of the foundation’s projects. satisfied with all service experiences. For example, we made progress with the billing event in the corporate market. The recommendation Together with ‘s Heeren Loo Zorggroep, we developed an online score for billing increased from 5.4 in 2010 to 6.6 in 2014 (6.3 in 2013). portal for people with learning difficulties to learn basic steps Despite this increase, billing is still the lowest scoring event in the on how to use the internet. Users can access a carefully chosen corporate market. Therefore, we continue our efforts to improve our selection of information, games, radio and movies. They can also service in this area by amongst other things better communications share photos and video calls. This way, family contact is more fun, about price changes and deep dives into the problems of our least easier and safer for clients. The portal is used by 269 people. satisfied customers. We expect to see the first results in 2015. Sports sponsorship of ice skating, a typically Dutch sport that fits In 2014, we enhanced the use of ‘customer journey modeling’ well with our brand, is the second pillar of our sponsorship policy. to investigate exactly what our customers experience at KPN. Since 2010, KPN has been lead sponsor of the Royal Dutch Skating These journeys led to the identification of various improvement Association (KNSB). The goal of our sponsorship and the associated possibilities, such as our relocation service for consumers. activities is to strengthen our reputation and gain the loyalty, goodwill and preference of the Dutch skating public for our brand. For information about specific quality improvements, please refer to the Business, Consumer Mobile and Consumer Residential sections of this report. “Thanks to KPN Teletolk, deaf and Ambition hearing impaired people can make In order to achieve our best service provider ambition, full attention an appointment by telephone with on improving the NPS remains crucial. We will continue our efforts their doctor or a reservation at their to deliver the customer promise and surprise our customers. Among favorite restaurant. The ability to other things, this means more focus on improving customer processes. We will implement a way of working in which customer make a call on an equal basis gives journeys will be the basis for business process redesign. We expect them a lot of freedom” this will lead to higher customer appreciation in NPS events and at our touch points. We will continue on our path of improving our Rob IJzerman, level of service and customer processes on the basis of daily General Manager KPN Hotspots customer feedback. Also, we aim to further optimize the online customer experience. At the KPN brand level, we will continue 32 KPN — Integrated Annual Report 2014 In the Winter Olympic season, we wanted to make KPN visible as a sponsor and fan of Dutch speed skating. We expressed this aim “I was able to focus fully on the Olympic season” in an integrated KPN campaign during the Winter Olympic games. The campaign focused on the KPN brand, our sponsorship and our Ireen Wüst, customers in both the consumer and business market and was Multiple Olympic speed-skating champion aligned with all KPN marketing and sales channels. We want to Played the leading role in the Winter Olympic campaign create additional value for customers and therefore provide them with extra services to experience Dutch (professional) skating. Our “2014 was the most successful combined Allround/Sprint principal activity was our main sponsorship of the ‘Coolste Baan’, sporting year of my entire National Championships. an official 400 meter ice track in the Olympic Stadium in our career. I won two gold medals Thanks to sponsors like capital Amsterdam. The Olympic campaign generated the and three silver medals at the KPN and TVM, skaters were following results: Winter Olympics in Sochi and able to focus fully on their ýý EUR 13.7 million in value weighted media exposure was voted Sportswoman of the performances during the ýý KPN as the most recognizable Dutch Olympic sponsor Year and even Sportswoman Olympic season. It is more ýý Traffic and sales boost during the campaign period of 9% with of the World! I was impressed than deserved that an EUR 9 million additional turnover by the way in which KPN’s independent jury chose ýý An increase of all KPN brand values (personal, helpful, genuine winter campaign kept the KPN as the ‘Sport Sponsor’, and sympathetic) whole country fascinated ‘Entertainment & Event ýý An increase of 6% on average in preference and support for with skating last year. In just Sponsor’ and overall ‘Sponsor the KPN brand four weeks’ time, more than of the Year for 2014’ in the ýý 80,000 loyal customers invited to visit the ‘Coolste Baan’ 100,000 people skated on Netherlands and ‘Best of ýý 10,000 loyal customers who visited the KPN National the ‘Coolste Baan van Europe’ at the ESA Excellence Championship Allround and Sprint at the ‘Coolste Baan Nederland’, in the Olympic Awards. Together, we have van Nederland’. Stadium, and 45,000 fans won many gold medals and cheered us on during the I’m incredibly proud of that!” Speed skating enthusiasts can find information about their sport at the portal www.schaatsen.nl or www.kpn.com/schaatsen Cultural sponsorship – Rijksmuseum In 2013, we became lead sponsor of the Rijksmuseum in Amsterdam. We are proud to be able to make a contribution to this national treasure. The museum offers us relationship marketing potential for our business partners, customers and employees. In 2014, we celebrated the first anniversary of the renovated Rijksmuseum with a digital interactive billboard campaign featuring several world renowned paintings such as “The Night Watch”. Furthermore, we offered the Dutch people a virtual tour through the museum hosted by the director Wim Pijbes. We organized a number of events in the Rijksmuseum for our top business partners and our SME clients. Belgium In 2014, we celebrated our 10-year partnership with Standard de Liège football club and renewed our partnership with Zulte-Waregem. We became proud sponsor of the newly created Limburg United basketball team in addition to Okapi Aalstar and we sponsored Belgium’s basketball cup ‘The BASE Cup’. We continued our ASO/PSO partnership and supported their three major cycling races. With our BASE brand and its Spotify offer, we partnered with several music festivals. We supported the aid campaign for families affected by the Soma disaster in Turkey and also supported ALS Liga Belgium and Télévie in different ways. Ambition Our target is to provide 1,250 chronically ill children with a ‘KPN Classmate’ in 2015. We are the main sponsor of the ‘once in a lifetime’ exhibition ‘Rembrandt: the late works’ in the Rijksmuseum in February 2015. Together with the Rijksmuseum, we want to give a stage to one of the greatest painters of our Golden Age for all Dutch people. We prolonged our skating sponsorship until the end of the skating season 2015-2016. KPN — Integrated Annual Report 2014 33 REPORT BY THE BOARD OF MANAGEMENT — GROUP PERFORMANCE Our people strategy Our employees are valuable to our organization and crucial in the continuous change of our business. Employees should constantly invest in their competencies to become the change agents we need. We want them to become more empowered and we are also investing in a culture of collaboration. Engaged and skilled employees are a prerequisite for the value we create for our customers and society. We are transforming and simplifying our organization to empower our people to serve our customers better. Their knowledge, skills and commitments are our most important assets and add value for our customers. We are therefore committed to helping them develop their skills and enabling them to realize the value they add. Our people Four focus areas We believe the success of our organization relies on the commitment of our people. To better align our people strategy with our corporate strategy ‘strengthen, simplify and grow’, we have developed four HR focus areas with corresponding slogans. 1) ÉÉN KPN: a connected organization 2) Feel free! Being an attractive employer 3) Simplified organization: one way of working 4) Simplified HR Overview highlights, KPIs & other targets ÉÉN KPN: a connected organization To bring about a connected organization, we developed and Highlights implemented a top leadership program to align our senior ýý Increased employee engagement scores management. We worked closely with leading business schools ýý Achieved an 80% success rate in outplacement programs such as the International Institute for Management Development ýý Decreased absenteeism rate to 3.8% (IMD) and Ashridge. Secondly, we are in the process of restructuring our business into % women in top% women at KPN NL a more functional organization. Following the sale of E-Plus, we management reassessed our governance and business model. Human Resources 18 % 24% (2013: 24%) is instrumental in bringing about organizational change, for example by developing the design principles, supporting Works Council-related interventions and introducing new behaviors as a starting point for a new culture. (2013: 19%) Feel free! Being an attractive employer The Dutch labor market is becoming increasingly flexible. We want % employees participating % employees who feel our people to feel free to come, stay and leave KPN and we help in i change capable of working them to grow as professionals by increasing their knowledge and according to TNWL&W skills. This focus on stimulating craftsmanship is what gives us a 32% (2013: 29%) 78% competitive edge in the labor market and helps us to attract and retain talented people. We believe craftsmanship will lead to better performance, more satisfied customers and ultimately a better business result. (2013: 74%) Our performance management system looks at the value that our people create. We are convinced that teams perform better and Result Result deliver more value when people are aware of their responsibilities Other CSR KPIs 2014 2013 and the value they bring and they combine their individual Percentage of internal increase 34% 5% of the use of the New Way of compared compared strengths. This means our people determine their own added Working ICT products with 2013 with 2012 value as part of their performance management. Managers set Percentage of women in middle 17% 16.5% the strategic direction for their teams, but each person defines management KPN NL his or her own added value in realizing the strategy. Together with the corporate Works Council, we have developed activities to explain the ‘why’ of performance management to our employees and to support employees and management with implementing this strategic instrument. 34 KPN — Integrated Annual Report 2014 Our employee engagement survey shows we are on the right processes for people across KPN, for example they can access the track to being an attractive employer. In 2014, we improved system anytime and anywhere for the most important and most our overall engagement score and scored higher on how people frequent tasks. perceive corporate strategy, their pride in working for KPN, our corporate social responsibility role, and most items related to Redeployment development and performance management such as insight into We run a successful outplacement program that helps people how performance contributes to KPN’s strategy and sufficient move to new jobs when theirs become redundant. The program discussion of the results. We can still improve our performance in is run with two external partners. Our support varies according connecting senior management with the rest of the organization to how employable the person is and his or her position in the and in simplifying our processes and the organization. labor market. Some people are more disadvantaged than others, for example older people or those with a physical restriction. Compared with our peers, our outplacement programs have a high success rate of around 80%. In 2014, 419 employees participated in “Having grown up with ICT, an outplacement program, of whom 282 found new jobs externally, talented graduates want to 17 were redeployed within KPN and 39 started their own companies. choose their work-life balance. The ability to be connected Diversity We want our workforce to accurately reflect society for everyone anytime with customers and to feel welcome in our organization. Our approach to diversity not colleagues is one of the attractive only covers gender, but also includes age, ethnicity and people features of KPN as an employer” with a disadvantage in the labor market. All talent is welcome to work at KPN. We believe diverse teams achieve better results than Ibtissam Azghiri, homogeneous teams. Graduate Recruiter We did not achieve our targets on gender diversity; however, we remain committed to our target of having 30% women overall and also 30% in our top and middle management in 2015. In 2014, Simplified organization: one way of working women comprised 17% of middle management and 18% of top One of our strategic goals is to build a simple and efficient management. Overall, 24% of our employees are female. In general, organization that is focused on our core business activities and we believe the inflow of talented women is satisfactory. Our customer service. We continued to roll out our Way of Working challenge lies in their promotion to top and middle management (WoW) improvement program, which uses so called ‘navigators’ positions. Our efforts focus on analyzing bottlenecks and to assist managers to sharpen their customer focus and employees intervening on them. Although we are not yet fully satisfied develop their expertise and craftsmanship. In 2014, there were with our performance, the “Talent naar de Top” organization about 45 navigators active. recognized KPN as a good performer on diversity for the technology and telecom sector. According to Intermediair, we Market conditions continued to change in 2014, and we need to are the best performing ICT and IT company on gender diversity adapt our organization in response to those changing conditions. in the Netherlands. Furthermore, KPN offers women the best career We focused on simplifying our organization to face changing development opportunities in this category. Over the years, we demands from society and our customers and made great progress have provided women with activities such as coaching, education in this area. In our business, simplifying mostly means delayering, and executive training to help them succeed in their career at KPN. integration or stopping activities. A simplified organization also results in employees becoming redundant. Our workforce in the Because we believe in full inclusion, we also further developed our Netherlands was reduced with 434 FTEs in 2014, despite the activities and policies for age diversity, ethnicity and people with acquisition of Reggefiber, as part of our simplification program a disadvantage in the labor market. We want our people to feel that will result in quality improvements and in 1,500 to 2,000 free to be themselves at work. As such we signed the Declaration fewer FTEs by 2016. During the year, HR was involved in all main of Amsterdam which promotes an inclusive workplace for lesbian, reduction programs that are part of this simplification program. gay, bisexual and transgender (LGBT) people. In December 2014, we announced we are restructuring our Business In 2014, we made a commitment to adhere to several new segment to achieve even stronger customer focus and increase initiatives, including the Dutch regulation on participation standardization. Unfortunately, this will result in an additional (Participatiewet) and an initiative on youth unemployment reduction of up to 580 FTEs in this segment. At the same time, we (Jeugdwerkloosheid). We are already committed to employing will hire an additional 200 FTEs in the Consumer segment to connect people with a disadvantage in the labor market, such as those new customers and extend our service to existing customers. aged over 55, people from non-Dutch backgrounds and those with a permanent or chronic medical condition. In 2014, we employed Simplified HR nine people with weak positions in the labor market. We are The role of the HR department has evolved from being committed to demonstrating social return, which is a tender administrative to supporting change in the organizational requirement for participating government tenders. We have restructuring. We aim to simplify the department and separate grown into one of the larger private companies in the Netherlands our role as a business partner from that as an advisor. In 2014, that fulfills Social Return on Investment (SROI) obligations required we developed a new HR organizational model and redefined our by government organizations. In 2014, the number of social return roles and responsibilities based on qualitative interviews with requests from our customers, also in the private sector, continued stakeholders. We also aligned the Collective Labor Agreements to increase. (CLA) for KPN and KPN Contact. A new MyHR portal simplifies HR KPN — Integrated Annual Report 2014 35 REPORT BY THE BOARD OF MANAGEMENT — GROUP PERFORMANCE Our people We also discussed alternative ways to fulfill social return criteria 20% growth in internal use of the New Way of Working ICT with government stakeholders. We initiated several think-tank products and services, such as conference calling, videoconferencing, sessions with the Dutch government about SROI criteria in tenders. webcasting and Lync. We achieved an average growth in internal use In some cases, we were able to meet these SROI requirements, of 34% and thus achieved our target. This result is based on a survey through new ways of public-private cooperation. We also used our and represents the perception of our employees. To help us achieve sponsorship of the Rijksmuseum, the KPN Mooiste Contact Fonds our target, we promoted the internal use of Lync, for example by and Klassecontact as a basis for partnering with local governments introducing an e-learning course. Our social network TEAMKPN and we are recognized by Dutch authorities and non-profit Online enables employees to discuss topics and find colleagues. organizations as a discussion partner in the field of SROI. We extended its functionality by adding a talent finder, which allows employees to post specific work-related challenges and find people We filled 88% of our vacancies internally and 12% externally in with the right skills and expertise to solve them. Working in this order to build on our current strengths and capacities, but also digital environment removes physical barriers, such as office enable new ideas to infuse our organization. locations or departments. Another new functionality of TEAMKPN Online is the integration of Lync (for further information, see page Health and vitality 59). We introduced follow-me printing that allows employees to use Absenteeism declined for the fourth consecutive year, falling to any KPN printer at any location with their employee card. Bring Your 3.8%1, thereby meeting our target of 3.9%. In 2014, we continued Own Device (BYOD) was implemented for Apple devices. to focus on specific employee groups or departments with high absence rates or health-related problems. In 2014, we ran a voluntary Weightwatchers program in Houten to help employees “We do not always fully appreciate adjust to a healthier lifestyle and lose weight. Participants paid for the program themselves, and we facilitated price agreements and how valuable the social platform provided meeting rooms. Stress-related absence is increasing, not TEAMKPN is to KPN. It’s least because a 24/7 society puts more pressure on maintaining an tremendous that everyone acceptable work-life balance. We organized stress management can share their information workshops to prevent stress-related absences. In 2014, people could use their employability budget to manage their own health and respond to colleagues’ proactively, for example by following courses on mindfulness, messages and blogs” stress prevention, mental resilience, self-awareness and emotional intelligence. We also introduced a new work union (ArboUnie) Teun Verheij, protocol. It offers a wider partnership ideology and focuses on Online Media Manager three profiles: problem areas, average illness rates and low rates Corporate Communications of sickness. 32% of our people in the Netherlands participated in our interactive vitality coaching program ‘i change’ which means we Our third ambition is that in the long term all KPN employees can have outperformed our target of 30%. We actively communicated work according to the New Way of Living & Working. We carried about the program in our health and vitality initiatives. We also out new research among employees to gauge how many felt able launched a new version of ‘i change’, which we developed with to work this way. Employees who, by the nature of their job, our supplier. The new ‘i change’ is based on personal profiles cannot work in this way were excluded from the results. 78% of and includes an app that makes monitoring easier and more our employees felt capable. This means that we did not achieve user-friendly. our target of 90% because, for some of our employees, the working conditions are not fit for it, or the culture within that part The New Way of Living & Working of the company is not yet ready to work accordingly. One of the conclusions of the study is that people already perceive the New Moving forward on ambitions Way of Living & Working to be the standard at KPN. New We set three ambitions in 2013 to develop the New Way of Living employees are automatically given permission in our HR system & Working at KPN. Our first ambition was to adapt services to to work this way. We added an opt-in function for the New Way accommodate flexible working. We identified six target locations of Living & Working to our Collective Labor Agreement, which in 2014. These are equipped with Wi-Fi networks, flexible work facilitates the gradual implementation of this model. Department places and sufficient videoconferencing and teleconferencing managers are responsible for deciding whether this way of rooms to facilitate the New Way of Living & Working. People can working is suitable in their department, and for implementing choose where they work as their employee cards now give them agreements with their teams. access to all KPN’s office buildings. Flexible employee mobility is another focus area for the New Way of Living & Working. We Employee involvement adjusted our strict parking policies to facilitate flexible working We organized several events for our employees, such as a conditions and we installed charging points for electric cars and masterclass on how to use Twitter for business purposes and e-bikes at other office locations. We are currently developing an discussed this theme in several blog posts on our internal social application that shows how many parking places are available in media platform TEAMKPN Online, reaching a large audience. We different locations. use feedback from events and input from employees to help us improve and better align our facilities with their needs, increase Our second ambition is to use more of KPN’s New Way of Living their use of our products and services and make more employees & Working products and services ourselves. We set a target to realize feel able to switch to the New Way of Living & Working. 1) This % excludes the employees of former IT Solutions, now part of the Business Segment. 36 KPN — Integrated Annual Report 2014 responsibilities, empowering employees and making each aware “This means a great deal to ill children” of how he or she contributes to our overall business success. To support this process, we are strengthening our leadership and Annemarie Kaptein, Director EDventure coaching capabilities. “Children who are unable to consultants, works together We conducted a study into what new ways of working mean attend school for long periods with KPN’s Mooiste Contact for BASE Company. Our aim is to translate the company’s mobiledue to illness tend to lose Fonds to achieve this. It means centric vision into a flexible approach to working. Our vision is contact with their friends and a lot to children that they to have a modern work environment that emphasizes paperless, classmates. The KlasseContact can feel ‘normal’ in this way. clean desk and activity-based working. We will start to roll out project ensures that these I am proud of what we have this new work environment in 2015. Our goal is to create a ‘Mobile children can continue to take achieved together and Minds’ workforce, who act as ambassadors for what we stand for. their lessons and remain in particularly of the hundreds touch with their peers. A of KPN volunteers who made Ambition laptop is made available to themselves available on-site to them at home and a KPN explain how the system works The Netherlands Klasgenoot (Classmate) is set to pupils, parents and teachers. In 2015, we will continue to connect people in a simplified up for them in the classroom. KPN engineers took care of the organization. We will focus on our connection with our customers This piece of equipment connection. Their dedication and the connection between our employees. This requires people enables children to participate is fantastic and essential to with strong capacities to connect to others. We will also develop our in lessons live from their own helping many more children internal ‘Feel free’ slogan further and communicate it to employees. homes. EDventure, the branch over the coming years.” association for educational We continue to strive towards having 30% women in our organization in 2015. We also want to increase our employee engagement scores on ‘Overall Engagement’ to more than 70% and at least stabilize our scores for ‘Working Environment’ (61%) and ‘Strategy & Leadership’ (41%). In 2015, we want at least 80% of our redundant employees to find new jobs after completing an outplacement program. Furthermore, we aim for an absenteeism rate of 3.9% for 2015. For 2015, we want more people to adopt the New Way of Living & Working. We want 90% of our employees to feel able to work in this way. Also, in 2015 we will investigate the development of a dashboard to measure labor productivity related to the use of ICT products of The New Way of Working. The New Way of Living & Working is already perceived as the standard within KPN; we will now focus on linking its targets and merits directly to employee expertise, autonomy and strategic company targets, such as customer satisfaction, reputation and performance. The New Way of Living & Working provides our people with the freedom to choose when and where they work, ultimately enhancing performance. Belgium We will continue to roll out our new work environment and our talent development program. We will also continue our efforts to The New Way of Living & Working is closely linked to saving maintain and increase the vitality of our people with a new Vitality energy, fuel and CO2. To raise awareness of the ways our program that emphasizes building energy and work-life balance. employees can save energy, we organized a fuel-saving competition for people with a lease contract, to find the most fuel-efficient employees. 1,877 people participated in the competition. Belgium In Belgium, enthusiastic and motivated people who understand and support our strategy for the Belgian mobile market are key to our success. Our main focus is on attracting talented people with the right skills and enabling all our employees to grow personally so each makes a unique contribution to executing the strategy. We want people to feel good and engaged within the organization. To develop talent, we invest in coaching and development tracks for all our employees. We set targets based on roles and KPN — Integrated Annual Report 2014 37 REPORT BY THE BOARD OF MANAGEMENT — GROUP PERFORMANCE Partnering in a sustainable supply chain We believe that the way in which we engage and cooperate with partners and suppliers and create a sustainable supply chain can enhance our business and bring about the necessary technological and sustainable innovations and new products. In our procurement activities, we focus on saving costs, enhancing quality and flexibility and stimulating sustainability simultaneously. We believe that a sustainable supply chain enhances our business opportunities and those of our suppliers. Dialogue and sustainable partnerships with individual suppliers can empower an outside-in perspective and new ideas that are beneficial for both partners involved. Living up to stakeholders’ expectations and demands of society fosters business continuity. As we do not produce mobile Our suppliers phones and other telecommunication devices or network equipment ourselves, we focus on engaging in partnerships with our suppliers to develop sustainable solutions. We want our suppliers not only to deliver sustainable products for our customers but also to comply with local laws related to production and working conditions. Results on KPIs We met all of our targets in 2014. We implemented five initiatives at our suppliers that resulted in a more sustainable supply chain and cost saving as well. In total, 41% of our high-risk suppliers were audited in 2014. The Joint Auditing Committee (JAC) audited Overview highlights, KPIs & other targets 11 of our suppliers on-site. Additionally, we took the initiative for another ten on-site audits at our suppliers. In total, 86% of our Highlights high-risk suppliers participated in E-Tasc, a self-auditing system, ýý Initiated and implemented five sustainable solutions together or were audited on-site. Our Supplier Code of Conduct, or an with our suppliers alternative code of conduct of the supplier which is in the spirit ýý Challenged suppliers in a competition to present innovative of the Code of Conduct of KPN, is signed by 96.2% of our high-risk ideas on enhancing new business and received 53 ideas from and medium-risk suppliers. 27 suppliers Sustainable solutions The implementation of (sustainable) solutions together with our % high-risk suppliers audited % high-risk & medium-risk suppliers helps us to strengthen partnerships and accomplish our on-site suppliers that signed the strategic goals. In 2014, we initiated and implemented five of such Supplier Code of Conduct projects. One project led to a reduction in the weight of our SIM card 41% packages by reducing the amount of materials needed. This results 96% in a 60% reduction of CO2 emissions during the production phase and can reduce transportation emissions. Another solution replaces (2013: 39%) heavy batteries for power outages with lighter weight battery (2013: 96%) packages, which comprise smaller amounts of environmentally hazardous substances and are easily recyclable. Other initiatives % high-risk suppliers include more energy-efficient rectifiers in our networks, a tender participating in a selffor sustainable office supplies and a more efficient delivery model assessment for ICT equipment that reduces traffic movements. 86 % In 2014, we optimized the supply of handsets from the central warehouse to our shops by reassessing the logistical planning. This resulted in less traffic to the shops while maintaining a (2013: 83%) satisfying stock level. Besides improving our planning, we also switched to using smaller vehicles with a higher maneuverability in urban areas. Both changes resulted in an 85% CO2 emission reduction. Additionally, the lower traffic frequency and the use of smaller vehicles resulted in a cost reduction. 38 KPN — Integrated Annual Report 2014 Compliance with standards As in previous years, we monitor developments and initiatives Our Supplier Code of Conduct is part of our standard supplier to ban the use of conflict minerals in mobile phones and other contracts. All our suppliers need to sign the code or have their electronic telecommunication devices. Currently, this discussion own equivalent code based on the United Nations Universal is restricted to the large manufacturers of electronic devices. Our Declaration of Human Rights and the core treaties of the influence on this process is limited. International Labor Organization. If suppliers refuse to comply, we do not renew contracts. In 2014, there were no such cases. Dilemma 86% of our high-risk suppliers participated in a self-assessment KPN is a relatively small operator in the global telecom sector, (E-tasc) on how they deal with social and environmental factors. compared with the large producers of electronic equipment. Our If a supplier is audited on-site, the self-assessment is not necessary. experience shows that our purchasing position, even united as the We perform on-site audits at our high-risk suppliers, which Joint Audit Committee, is sometimes not as strong as we would reflects one third of our high-risk supplier base in 2014. Partly, like it to be. A few large producers of electronic devices and these audits are performed by the Joint Auditing Committee mobile phones are not willing to sign our Supplier Code of (JAC), a collective of ten telecom operators who jointly monitor Conduct or cooperate in E-Tasc or on-site audit processes. This sustainability performance in their supply chains according to does not mean that suppliers do not comply with standards. international standards (ISO 14001, SA8000 and OHSAS 18001). Facing the large popularity of their products and comparable market shares in both the consumer and business market, it is The on-site audits help to raise sustainability standards and working difficult for us to terminate relationships with these suppliers. conditions in the supply chain. Where non-compliances or other We do however ask those parties to commit to all articles in issues are detected, a corrective action plan is drafted and followed our Supplier Code of Conduct. up by the responsible JAC member. In 2014, issues regarding child labor at a production site of a supplier came to the attention of JAC. Ambition JAC started a dialogue with this supplier to prevent such conduct in the future and to make sure that necessary improvements are made. We strive for further enhancing our relationships with suppliers In December 2014, an on-site audit at a manufacturing location of and for mutually exchanged experiences. In 2015, we will start a this supplier showed that serious improvements have been made. project that aims to improve productivity at our suppliers. In this project and in other dialogues, we will engage directly with our In 2014, two of our main suppliers appeared not to take responsibility suppliers. We are convinced that a direct dialogue on individual for the human rights and environmental situation in the tin mines in supplier level reduces administrative pressure and facilitates a lean Bangka Belitung (Indonesia). At our request they promised to take and flexible process. action to improve their tin mining activities. So far, one of them joined the tin working group of the Sustainable Trade Initiative. Together with JAC, we continue our efforts to build a sustainable We request other suppliers to follow their example. supply chain and verify the sustainable performance of our medium-risk and high-risk suppliers. However, it is our ambition Other initiatives to go beyond auditing suppliers and raising issues. We are looking Following the well appreciated Supplier Day in 2013, we organized for a more qualitative approach based on problem-solving and a new supplier event in 2014. We took into account last year’s helping suppliers to meet social and environmental requirements. suggestions for a more interactive program and organized a As a logical consequence, we move from focusing on audits and competition to challenge our suppliers to present their innovative self assessments to a KPI on measuring the realized improvements ideas on enhancing new business, customer satisfaction, cost on corrective actions, that follow from these audits and selfefficiency and productivity. We asked suppliers to take into assessments. For 2015, we aim for 30% realized improvements account sustainability impact as well. We received 53 ideas from on identified corrective action plans. 27 suppliers and invited nine suppliers to pitch their idea. The winner, CEVA, received an award. We also initiated the Partner Board, a regular consultation opportunity with our preferred suppliers. We aim to meet with these suppliers every three months to discuss projects and new opportunities. The Partner Board is initiated to ensure that supplier activities are aligned with our strategy (strengthen, simplify and grow). Our first evaluation of the Partner Board shows positive results. In 2014, we took notice of supplier and societal expectations regarding our terms of payment. We offered a number of suppliers the possibility of shorter payment terms in exchange for discounts on supplier products and services. For us, this results in more flexibility regarding supplier choice, but also in a more flexible and lower cost base. KPN — Integrated Annual Report 2014 39 REPORT BY THE BOARD OF MANAGEMENT — GROUP PERFORMANCE Environmental strategy Our business activities have an impact on the living environment. This impact stretches all the way from using raw materials and resources to energy use during the user phase and to the end-oflife treatment of products and services. As (fossil) materials are becoming more and more scarce and the capacity of the earth to recover is diminishing, the need for an overall environmental approach becomes more urgent. Over the past years, our environmental strategy has mainly been guided by our ambition to become climate neutral before 2020. In 2014, we extended our environmental strategy to integrate other urgent environmental impacts within our sphere of influence, such as resource use, recyclability of products, waste streams and Environment end-of-life treatment of products. We also started to investigate how our products and services can contribute to ensure that the society can stay within the one planet boundary, since globally more (fossil) materials are used than the planet can recover within one year. Our strategy not only focuses on reducing our risks in this field but mainly on benefiting from arising opportunities. The ICT sector has ample potential to contribute to a reduction of the global carbon footprint and of our current global environmental impact. According to the SMARTer 2020 report published by GeSI in 2012, the ICT sector is responsible for 2% of global greenhouse gas emissions but can contribute to a 16.5% GHG reduction in Overview highlights, KPIs & other targets other sectors by 2020. Our environmental strategy aims to enable this potential based on a threefold approach: Highlights ýý Aim to become climate neutral for own operations in 2015 1. Enabling the energy-saving potential of ICT ýý Saved energy resulting from the use of ICT solutions by our 2. R  educing the environmental impact in our value chain customers is approximately 30% of our own energy consumption (upstream and downstream) ýý Joined the Green Deal Circulair Buildings, aiming to minimize 3. Reducing our own environmental impact the use and maximize the reuse of natural resources, products and goods By reducing our impact in the value chain and enabling the ýý Implemented Information on sustainability of mobile phones environmental saving potential of ICT, we are acting upon the (ECO-rating) demands and wishes of our stakeholders. In this external approach, we focus on realizing innovation together with our suppliers and on developing new innovative services, for example based on Reduction energy CO2 emission reduction machine-to-machine communication (M2M). We are convinced consumption compared compared with 2005 that our environmental strategy and performance contribute to with 2010 our competitive advantage, as increasing efficiency and lower costs contribute to our business and enable our customers to 16% 98% reduce both environmental impact and costs. Our activities in reducing our own environmental impact are (2013: 12%) (2013: 94%) highly relevant as we are responsible for about 0.8% of the total Dutch electricity consumption. Furthermore, our internal approach strengthens the credibility of our external approach % recycled mobile phones Energy saved in networks NL and facilitates the use by our customers of green networks and datacenters in their own activities. 31% (2013: 6%) 41 GWh (2013: 47 GWh) Enabling the energy-saving potential of ICT In 2020, we aim to save as much energy with our products and services for our customers as we consume ourselves. To realize this ambition, we started measuring the impact of several Result Result products and services in 2013. In 2014, we improved and extended Other CSR KPIs 2014 2013 these calculations. The three services presented in the graph have CO 2 reduction in the value chain Calculation First (scope 3 in GHG protocol) available in calculation the highest energy saving impact and resulted in an estimated kton CO 2 based on all energy consumption reduction of 1.15PJ. This is 30% of the total categories of energy consumption of KPN. The calculation is based on installed GHG protocol in NL base volumes, own measured data, publicly available data and statistics, internationally recognized studies and expert judgments 40 KPN — Integrated Annual Report 2014 and is further described in Appendix 3. We will continue to The scope 3 emissions are compared with our net scope 1 and 2 improve the quality of the critical reference values to make the emissions (own operations in chart). The majority (82%) of our calculation results more robust. scope 3 emissions relate to upstream activities (like the production of equipment and hardware). We used the Environmental Extended Estimated reduced energy consumption by KPN customers in 2014 Input/Output (EEIO) method with figures published by DEFRA to calculate these emissions. Although the calculation is based on in petajoules several assumptions, we believe these estimates provide a good overview of upstream impacts. The main impact relates to the 5 Total energy consumption KPN Group production of ICT equipment that is used in our network. To Reduction by Teleworking reduce this impact, we focus on sustainable specifications on 4 Reduction by Conference Card the production, transportation, packaging and performance 3.798 0.770 Reduction by Colocation & Housing of equipment in our procurement process. See appendix 3 for 3 more information on the scope 3 calculations. 0.185 2 0.200 18% of our scope 3 emissions relate to downstream activities 1 (downstream transport, products use and discarding/recycling phase). Actions we define to reduce the impact of these activities 0 include improving the energy efficiency during product use, recycling of the products and informing our customers. We also see energy-saving potential in other services, e.g. M2M, RFID and healthcare services. In 2014, we introduced a new M2M As part of our IPTV and broadband propositions, customers can fleet management solution that helps customers to improve record information, such as TV programs and movies. To reduce efficiency by optimizing route planning and supporting drivers the energy use of customer equipment, we store the recordings to improve their driving behavior. One of our customers reported in the green KPN cloud. Therefore, customer equipment no longer 9% fuel savings after three months. New innovations using RFID needs a hard disk. This solution not only reduces the energy (radio-frequency identification) have great impact on tracking consumption of our customers, but also requires less energy and tracing of individual products during transport and storage. and materials during the production and disposal phase. Our By using RFID, not only locations but also temperatures of individual equipment sourcing policy requires all new ICT equipment to be products can be measured. This can improve energy efficiency more energy efficient than its predecessor. In 2014, we realized during transport of vulnerable fresh or cooled products, resulting a 13 GWh annual saving by replacing set-top boxes for IPTV in reducing fuel consumption, less food waste and adjusted cooling. customers with a newer and more energy-efficient model. Our healthcare solutions enable check-ups and analysis from Other environmental impact reduction a distance. These solutions are developed to increase efficiency Our environmental impact and strategy involves more than just and lower costs for healthcare providers and to increase the our climate impact. We also aim to reduce the use of scarce independence and freedom of patients, but they also reduce minerals by improving the recycling rate and the recyclability travel and therefore contribute to lower environmental impact. of the equipment used by KPN and our customers. Reducing the environmental impact in our value We ask suppliers to improve the recyclability of their products chain as part of our sustainable sourcing program and were the first operator to sell the ‘Fairphone’. This phone uses replaceable parts Calculating and reducing scope 3 emissions such as camera and battery, which reduces the impact on raw Our ICT value chain is complex and most environmental impact is materials and extends product lifetime. In 2014, we also started related to suppliers operating deep into our value chain. However, informing our customers about the sustainability of mobile phones we do feel responsible for the total CO2 impact of our products using ECO-rating. This ECO-rating is used by several operators to and services, including their production, use and end-of-life phase. assure that rankings used by different operators are comparable In 2014, we improved the scope 3 emission calculation for our and include CO2, use of materials and working conditions during operations in the Netherlands and we defined actions to reduce the production. (https://www.kpn.com/prive/ecorating.htm) impact of our upstream and downstream emissions. In 2015, we will investigate whether we can report all upstream and downstream In 2014, we set targets to collect 10% of sold mobile phones in emissions for BASE Company. 2014. In Belgium we collected 6%, which equals our 2013 results. In the Netherlands, we collected about 31%, a large part due to Upstream, downstream and own emissions KPN NL the return of leased mobile phones. Another way of improving reuse of mobile phones is the selling of previously owned mobile in kton phones. In 2014, we added 25,000 pre-owned iPhones 4 to our portfolio and sold about 13,000. Besides the collection of mobile Upstream (scope 3) phones, we also changed the way we collect broadband modems Own (scope 1 and 2) 154 from our customers. In 2014, we recycled 735 tons of customer Downstream (scope 3) equipment, mainly caused by swaps of modems and set-top boxes 12 for TV-services. 46% could be re-used (second life) and 54% was recycled (processed as e-waste). In appendix 6, more details are provided on the waste and recycling figures. 705 KPN — Integrated Annual Report 2014 41 REPORT BY THE BOARD OF MANAGEMENT — GROUP PERFORMANCE Environment Reducing our own environmental impact Networks in the Netherlands Climate neutral in 2015 2.5 549% We are well on track to realize our ambition to become climate 2.368 2.0 2.294 2.216 neutral by reducing our absolute energy consumption, increasing 2.146 2.090 2.138 2.051 the energy efficiency of our activities, sourcing renewable energy and compensating for remaining emissions. In 2014, our energy 1.5 263% 380% efficiency program and renewable energy program resulted in a reduction of our CO2 footprint (scope 1 and 2) by 98% compared with 1.0 159% 2005. This is better than our 2014 target (96%) and primarily realized by purchasing green electricity. The remaining CO2 emissions are 0.5 79% compensated with carbon certificates. In 2015, we intend to become 27% climate neutral for our own operations (scope 1 and 2). 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 KPN Group own net CO2 emissions (in kton) Electricity consumption in petajoules (PJ) Growth data volume (Gb/s) compared with 2010 (Scope 1+2) 650 In our network in Belgium, we realized our target of a 19% energy efficiency improvement. This resulted in an improvement of the 520 energy efficiency ratio (GWh per Tb) of 38% compared with 2013. 390 Network in Belgium 260 0.275 1532% 0.266 130 0.220 0.240 0.241 0.248 0.256 0.235 0.218 0 617 609 540 415 282 180 77 46 38 14 0 0 0.165 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 base 0.110 year 807% 0.055 195% 394% Reducing absolute energy consumption and increasing energy 80% 26% efficiency 0 We aimed to decrease the absolute energy consumption for KPN 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Group by 11% in 2014 compared with 2010. Again, we realized an absolute reduction, resulting in a total reduction of 16%. This is Electricity consumption in petajoules (PJ) mainly caused by our energy efficiency programs in our networks, Growth data volume (Gbit) compared with 2010 datacenters, offices and car fleet. Decreasing absolute energy consumption is partly a result of increasing energy efficiency, In our datacenters, our efficiency measures also resulted in meaning that we need less energy for the same activity. improvement of our efficiency ratio. The energy efficiency ratio of datacenters is expressed by comparing total energy consumption In our networks in the Netherlands, our energy-saving measures with energy consumption of equipment used for customer services. resulted in 41 GWh of savings, which strongly exceeds our target The international standard for this calculation is PUE (power usage of 35 GWh. These savings not only compensated for growth by effectiveness). In 2014, our PUE improvement compared with 2005 extending our networks and the roll-out of 4G, but contributed is 32.3% which is according to our goal for 2014 (32.3%). to an absolute electricity consumption reduction of 3% compared with 2013. This resulted in an improvement of the energy Data centers in the Netherlands efficiency ratio of our Dutch networks (GWh per Gb/s) of 31% compared with 2013. The energy reducing effects in our networks 0.6 are caused by two programs. Firstly, the continuous improvement 26% and innovation of our network and, secondly, the concentration 0.5 0.529 0.533 0.510 0.516 0.521 0.516 and reduction of the installed base for the traditional services. 0.486 24% 19% Year-on-year, we realized savings between 30 and 50 GWh, 0.4 17% 20% resulting in total savings of 198 GWh (annual consumption of around 60,000 households) as from 2010. 0.3 11% 0.2 0.1 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Electricity consumption in petajoules (PJ) Growth electricity consumption ICT equipment customers compared with 2010 42 KPN — Integrated Annual Report 2014 In 2015, we plan to open a new datacenter that will be the first External recognition Dutch datacenter with the highest quality specifications ‘Tier IV’. It will be located on the High Tech campus in Eindhoven. The heat CDP generated in the datacenter will be reused in our own offices and Also in 2014, we were benchmarked on our climate and energy the climate system of the campus. strategy, disclosure and performance by CDP (formerly Carbon Disclosure Project). CDP annually rates nearly 2,000 companies In our car fleet, we realized a reduction of 5.6 million liters of car on behalf of 767 investors with total assets of US$92 trillion. We fuel compared with 2010. We outperformed our target of 25% improved our disclosure score from 95 to 99 points (out of 100) (realization 34%) due to a combination of the implementation and for the third year we received an A ranking for performance. of The New Way of Living & Working, more energy-efficient cars Our score means that we are global climate leader in the telecom and a reduction in the size of our car fleet. In 2014, we started a sector together with KT Corp. pilot with electric cars. To facilitate electric mobility, we installed charging points for cars and bicycles in all major offices. We joined the RE100 program where front-runners in CO2 reduction promote the generation of renewable power. Car fleet in the Netherlands WWF Climate Saver 0.6 KPN was the first telecom operator with a WWF Climate Saver 0.592 partnership. Our partnership, during which we outperformed all 0.572 0.5 0.538 annual climate targets, ended in 2014. WWF the Netherlands and 0.474 KPN are investigating new projects to continue our cooperation. 0.4 For example, we discussed how KPN is creating opportunities to 0.396 expand and open new markets for products and services that 0.362 0.3 0.344 significantly avoid emissions for its customers. 0.2 Challenge 0.1 We want to make our customers more aware of the energy use 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 associated with using ICT equipment. The use of mobile phones and ICT equipment and especially the associated data use, for Energy consumption car ﬂeet in petajoules (PJ) example by video on demand, involves energy use. In contrast to the use of cars for example, where the amount of fuel used is In our offices, we also improved our environmental performance by directly visible, the energy use of data storage, data communication installing more LED lights, improving the separation of waste and and local ICT equipment is relatively invisible for consumers. replacing the coffee machines with equipment that is 30% more There is no energy label for networks or data use showing the energy efficient. In order to identify ways to further reduce the most efficient product or the most efficient way to perform a environmental impact of office buildings, we joined the Green certain activity. For example, most consumers are unaware that Deal on Circular Buildings. The aim of this Green Deal is to reuse all using a mobile phone or a tablet for a Google search is far more materials used in buildings in order to migrate to a circular economy. energy efficient than using a desktop. We are struggling to find a right way of expressing energy use to our customers and making Sourcing renewable energy and compensation them more aware of their influence and their opportunities to Since 2011, 100% of our electricity consumption in the Netherlands reduce environmental impact. and Belgium originates from renewable sources and since 2013, all electricity of KPN Group comes from renewable sources. All the Ambition electricity used in the Netherlands is locally generated from wind (e.g. 35% of Princes Amalia Windpark) or biomass (e.g. new biomass We continue our ambition to reduce our energy consumption plant “Golden Raand” that is using only used wood). In 2014, all and sharpened our target to become climate neutral for our own of our natural gas consumption and about 50% of our diesel and operations (scope 1 and 2) in 2015 instead of 2020. We will continue petrol consumption is compensated by forest compensation and our internal energy efficiency program and to stay on track we Gold Standard projects. Together with our energy-saving program, redefined our goals for 2015 for our networks, datacenters and car this has resulted in a 98% reduction of CO2 emissions since 2005. fleet. We disclosed these targets on corporate.kpn.com/csrtargets. In 2015, our goal is to have zero net scope 1 and 2 CO2 emissions. We continuously strengthen our ambition to reduce our Further information on the calculation and determination of our environmental impact in the value chain and to help our customers reported scope 1 and 2 emissions can be found in Appendix 3. to reduce their environmental impact. We aim to increase the percentage of returned modems from 40% to 60% in 2015 and Energy consumption and Petajoules kton CO2 kton CO2 80% in 2016. In 2015, we will continue our mobile equipment net CO 2 emissions 2014 (PJ) Scope 1 Scope 2 recycling ambition. As in 2014, we expect also to collect phones KPN the Netherlands 3.5 11.8 0.0 from the lease concept. Although we continuously try to find ways Belgium and iBasis 0.3 2.5 0.0 to collect mobile phones, we expect a decrease in the collection KPN Group 3.8 14.4 0.0 of mobile phones to 20% in 2015 and 10% in 2016, as a result of the phasing out of the lease-concept. In Belgium, we intend to collect 8% and in 2016 we intend to improve this to 10%. KPN — Integrated Annual Report 2014 43 REPORT BY THE BOARD OF MANAGEMENT — GROUP PERFORMANCE Enhancing a safe digital environment Digital solutions are an inextricable part of people’s daily lives, offering a steady stream of opportunities. The digital environment enables connections all the time and everywhere and generates economic growth. Yet, it has downsides such as the dangers of internet abuse, cyber attacks and hacking. A secure network is an absolute prerequisite for our customers to safeguard their privacy and prevent misuse of their digital identity. We feel it is our responsibility in this digital world to improve online security and to empower our customers in coping with and responding proactively to online security and privacy issues. It is only then that they can truly feel free in the digital world and experience the freedom and opportunities it has to offer. This is why we continuously improve our systems, products and services Privacy & Security portfolio with regards to privacy and security. Culture and organization Privacy and security are an integral part of our business and are among the top priorities within KPN. We continued our monthly Guest Hacker Program for employees and gave attention to a different area of security each month. We invited guests with specific security expertise, from a safe-cracking expert from the military to experienced malware hunters. We were the main partner of the third edition of the Dutch cyber Overview highlights, KPIs & other targets security week ‘Alert Online’ in 2014, organized together with the Dutch government and over 100 Dutch organizations such as Highlights Rabobank and Gasunie. The campaign aims to enhance the ýý Introduced six new security specific products and services awareness of the Dutch public on cyber security issues. The ýý Awarded the ‘Privacy Waarborg’ certificate midweek highlight of the program was a national cyber crisis ýý Partnered with the Blackphone initiative and the Silent Circle exercise ‘Cyberdawn’ hosted by KPN and conducted with help software as one of the first global operators from Nederland ICT. Security % Dutch people feeling their % customers who where data is safe with KPN1 unintentionally infected Given recent global developments on cyber espionage, conflicts by malware helped within and terrorism, data protection and information security have 69% eight hours never been more on top of the agenda. As the digital world is highly interdependent, we actively cooperate on cyber security (2013: 69%) 96% and business continuity with various partners such as other telcos, businesses, governments and knowledge institutions, both in the Netherlands and internationally. Our security approach Result Result KPN’s Chief Information Security Office (CISO) governs information Other CSR KPIs 2014 2013 security and business continuity for KPN. We follow the security life Number of customers who choose 156,677 N/a opt-in for sharing personal data on cycle of prevention, detection, response and verification. Rather traffic and roaming with KPN than solely relying on prevention through a strong security policy, Amount of cases that we have worked 26 17 we focus on detecting vulnerabilities in our systems, products and on with our network of customers services and on rapid response and problem-solving in case and partners to solve responsible disclosure cases from our global incidents occur. The CISO consists of four teams: Strategy & Policy CERT community team (prevent), CISO REDteam (proactive detection), KPN-CERT KPN participates and contributes in Report Plan and (Computer Emergency Response Team) (response) and Senior important initiatives to strive to make submitted implementation Security Officers (verify). KPN-CERT has tight operational integration the internet safer for kids. KPN has report put published its transparency report with online with KPN’s Security Operating Center (SOC) (reactive detention). respect to its contribution, including the reflection by stakeholders In 2014, the Strategy & Policy team focused on continuing the implementation of the KPN security policy that was introduced at the end of 2013 to improve our overall security posture and define security implementation activities. In 2014, our ethical hackers, the CISO REDteam, joined the Global Cyberlympics competition for the second time and once again demonstrated their competence 1) Measured as ‘top 3 companies where my data are safest ’from a list and leadership in the security domain. They came back in third of 12 key telecom/internet providers in the Netherlands. place in a hard-fought security contest. 44 KPN — Integrated Annual Report 2014 Besides the efforts of our own ethical hackers, we are willing to Major incidents cooperate with anybody who identifies a potential security leak, We continued our focus on detection and rapid response to provided they use their expertise responsibly and respect our possible security incidents. In April 2014, the heartbleed incident Responsible Disclosure code. In case we encounter security caused worldwide attention. The name ‘heartbleed bug’ is used incidents, from external or internal sources, the KPN-CERT’s to describe a severe vulnerability in the open source software technical experts follow an industry standard incident response OpenSSL that allows the theft of passwords, private keys and methodology. The team closely cooperates with other global CERT users’ session cookies. It posed a serious threat to digital teams and shares knowledge and best practices on attacks and information security, and was followed in quick succession by incidents. In 2014, together with Dutch knowledge and security three more issues, namely, shellshock, poodle (SSL) and kerberos. institutes TNO, the Team High Tech Crime Unit of the Dutch KPN CERT and SOC reacted quickly to assess and mitigate the police force and NCSC-NL (Dutch National Cyber Security Center), issues from these vulnerabilities across the KPN landscape. KPN-CERT published a 2013 report on net neutrality, data security and cyber espionage. Blackphone and Silent Circle We were one of the first international telecom operators to The KPN SOC monitors the security of our services, networks partner with Silent Circle to deliver the Silent Circle Apps and the and systems 24/7. It locates vulnerabilities in the systems and Blackphone. The Blackphone is an Android smartphone featuring coordinates their resolution. One of our main focus areas in 2014 PrivatOS and was developed to protect the privacy of its user. We was ‘Project KPN Schoon’ in which all systems were proactively aim to include the Blackphone in our portfolio once it becomes scanned for weaknesses. In 2015, KPN Schoon will finalize available and actively promote the phone among our customers and implementation of continuous scanning in which all KPN NL the Dutch public. The Blackphone uses Silent Circle software and departments and relevant subsidiaries automatically receive adopts the highest known mobile privacy and security standards. information on the results of the scanning and monthly statistics It is one way of responding to the government’s challenge to make are available for all KPN entities. Dutch boardrooms more secure. We also adopted the Silent Circle encryption app, available in our KPN Cloudstore for iOS and Android. Results on KPIs One of the security measures uses Perfect Forward Secrecy, which During 2014, we worked on 26 cases with our network of customers means that communication keys are automatically destroyed after and partners in order to solve responsible disclosure cases, which a communication session, making it impossible to decrypt the means that we achieved our target (16 cases). KPN works together contents of the conversation or the data at a later point in time. with those who report a security weakness in our network, systems or products so that we can assess and resolve the issue. We believe The amount of potential data breaches reported in 2014 decreased this is vital for our overall security effectiveness and encourage such compared with 2013. The majority of the reported incidents cooperation with the wider security community. appeared not to have led to an actual data leakage. Potential data breaches are assessed instantly to determine whether they represent We aim to introduce security specific products and services in an actual data leakage. If so, we take measures and inform order to enable our society to keep living and working in a secure authorities and other people involved. way. In 2014, we introduced six products and services, and thus achieved our target. Privacy For us, customer privacy is of the highest priority. We believe a secure network, secure products and secure services are a COO prerequisite to live up to our customers’ privacy expectations. We aim to improve customers’ trust through clear communication, reliability and customers choice. Our Privacy Statement is a solid agreement for our customers. Security Operating CISO Increasing awareness Center Research performed by our Customer Intelligence & Market Analysis department shows that consumers tend to see KPN as reliable with regard to dealing with data and privacy, whereas their perception on reliability of social media companies remains at a relatively low level. Team Strategy REDteam CERT Also, they are more aware of the data they leave behind at companies & Policy and increasingly prefer opt-ins allowing companies to use personal data for personalized advertisements. Whereas consumers do not specifically request privacy measures, this privacy attitude is different Prevent: Detect: Respond: from that of business customers, whose privacy demands are already Ensure the KPN Proactively Adequately a standard. Companies increasingly demand certificates that organization has search for respond to guarantee the implementation of privacy and security systems and implemented the vulnerabilities exploited related policies and checks. Since 2006, our Business Segment has security and in KPN products, vulnerabilities had an ISO 27001 certificate, which has been extended in 2014 and continuity policy services and in systems or now includes our most important services. With this certificate, we as established by networks, availability meet customer requirements and we can show our dedication to CISO. through the attacks. continually improving our services and processes. various stages of their life cycle. KPN — Integrated Annual Report 2014 45 REPORT BY THE BOARD OF MANAGEMENT — GROUP PERFORMANCE Privacy & Security Results on KPIs Our stakeholders stress the importance of freedom of choice We want our customers to feel that their data is safe in the hands for customers on what happens with their data. They see the of KPN. External research showed that 69%1 of the respondents tension between privacy and security and state that it is of felt their data is safe with KPN. This result equals our 2013 score utmost importance that KPN keeps the trust of the company even and means that we almost reached our target of 70%. when exploring the possibilities of big data at the same time. We did not reach our target on the number of customers who Internet safety choose opt-in for sharing personal data traffic and roaming with KPN. Opt-out is set as default. For 2014, we aimed for 250,000 We want all our customers to enjoy the benefits of the internet customers to choose opt-in. Instead we achieved 156,677 and contribute to our digital society in a safe and well-informed customers. The main reason why we did not reach this target is way. To support this, we focus on raising awareness among that fewer than expected Hi customers gave permission to use customers, helping them to tackle issues and protecting children their personal data and opt-in became available later than we in safely exploring the internet. expected. This group appears to be critical about the benefits of providing their data and adjusting their settings. To increase Results on KPIs the number of opt-ins, we will include the opt-in option within In raising internet safety for our customers and helping them new apps and propositions in 2015. to solve problems, we invested in products, our Abuse Desk and awareness campaigns. In cooperation with other operators, Privacy Waarborg we started the association Abuse Information Exchange. The In 2014, we were awarded the Dutch ‘Privacy Waarborg’ label. association represents providers with a collective market share of This label holds stringent standards and criteria for organizations more than 90% of Dutch internet access capacity. The association with regard to privacy and checks on whether these organizations operates the Abuse Hub, a central information service that are accurate in dealing with customer data. We are proud to have automatically collects and sorts internet abuse reports, indicating been awarded this label without having to take additional malware infections (risk of being part of a botnet), and distributes measures to comply with the standards. them to the relevant operator. Within KPN, our Abuse Desk receives infection reports and contacts the customers involved to help them Other initiatives solve the issue. The time it takes to solve the infection is one of In 2014, we started working on one central permission register for the most important aspects. Our target was to help 98% of the all customer data for our brands KPN, Hi and Telfort. This permission customers infected by malware within eight hours. We achieved register will be included in our assurance framework. That means only 96%. This is mainly the result of our performance in Q1, in its information security will be checked periodically, and that all which we introduced a new registration system for automatic measures taken and implemented can be tested. measurement and registration that needed additional attention during the starting period. During the year and as the functioning Law enforcement disclosure report of the system improved, we increased the percentage of customers We respect our customers’ privacy rights and abide by national helped within eight hours to almost 98%. Besides sharing abuse regulations and international human rights regarding this issue. reports, the cooperation between the National Cyber Security At the same time, we do have to comply with national laws Center and the Abuse Information Exchange led to new initiatives, and regulations requiring information disclosure to national for instance in the aftermath of large cyber security incidents. investigation agencies. Abiding by these regulations is part of our license to operate, meaning that we are obliged to facilitate Besides the support given to customers who find their system this in our infrastructure and cooperate with lawful interception infected with malware, we support customers in defending their orders as specified in the Telecommunication Act. systems against malware entering in the first place. We provide tooling via products such as PCveilig and Toestelveilig for We treat law enforcement warrants with the utmost care and computers and mobile devices. This tooling does not only protect responsibility. We facilitate interaction with law enforcement for against malware infections, but also provides support for retrieving all KPN brands via our liaison office that is available 24/7. We assess a device when stolen and the deletion of personal information. incoming law enforcement warrants and check on different aspects to filter out any uncertainty. If we note a deviation, we reject the warrant, inform the agency involved and follow relevant procedures. “You can only feel truly free In 2014, a mismatch was found in 1.6% of the warrants received. when the communications In 2014, 99.4% of the interception orders concerned telephone that you would have had in numbers, 0% regarded email addresses and in 0.6% of the cases private can be held publicly, we were ordered to intercept IP addresses. without concerns for security Dialogue and privacy. KPN launched We aim to be a thought leader on privacy in the Netherlands the Silent Circle apps in 2014 and therefore we participate actively in public debates on to assist individuals and privacy issues. During 2014, we organized both masterclasses boardrooms with their private and presentations for peers and law firms, and we organized a dialogue with partners and regulators. We participated in various voice and text communications” seminars and shared our experiences and positions. Jaya Baloo, Chief Information Security Officer 1) Measured as ‘top 3 companies where my data are safest ’from a list of 12 key telecom/internet providers in the Netherlands. 46 KPN — Integrated Annual Report 2014 We aim to contribute to a better world and to the protection of Over the last years, our Security Operating Center (SOC), REDteam children by participating in and contributing to important initiatives and KPN-CERT team have gained highly valuable knowledge to make the internet safer for kids. We continued our support to the regarding security solutions and security management methods. ‘Meldpunt Kinderporno’, which aims to prevent and stop child sexual We are convinced that our approach to security can help other abuse. A report published by Inhope in 2014 shows that the time companies and organizations to improve their security practices. necessary to follow up on reports and remove (duplicated) content This will raise the general security level within the Netherlands has been shortened. The report also shows an increase in the amount and that will also benefit KPN. By sharing our knowledge and of CSAM material that is reported to law enforcement in one day. We experience, open sourcing our developed tools, we strengthen also continued to develop our own initiatives and offer products and our hyperconnected ecosystem. services in 2014, such as our free downloadable and child-friendly web browser MyBee. At the end of 2013, we also submitted our In 2016, eID (Electronic Identity) will be introduced in the Dutch transparency report on our contribution to a safe internet for children, society. Because of the importance of eID in Dutch (e-)society and including input from stakeholders. Based on the transparency reports the significant commercial opportunities, we aim to become the of all ICT Coalition members, a report on the implementation of the leading player in eID and have a target for 8,000 Dutch citizens ICT principles was presented to stakeholders for reflection and to use a KPN eID by year end 2015. subsequently published on the website of the ICT Coalition. Privacy Dilemmas At the end of 2015, we want to improve our services to customers based on their use of data and roaming. This will be possible if We think product security should, at least partly, be a shared more customers choose opt-in for data sharing with KPN. For responsibility of hardware and software producers. While the 2015, we aim for 300,000 customers choosing this option. European Commission has emphasized the responsibility of all owners of critical infrastructure, it has not underlined the We want to support our customers in becoming more aware of responsibility for hardware and software vendors. As a result, issues regarding privacy and social media. For customers, it is not security by design is not yet the standard in the sector. As a always clear how their data is used by exploiters of social media. service provider, we connect different stakeholders and are Privacy regulation in non-European countries is often far less committed to ensuring them maximum security, but we face stringent and protective than they expect. We want to point these challenges in coping with the weaknesses in product design threats out to our customers and show them the possible dangers that provide threats to our customers. of social media, such as data-mining. By being a partner in the organization of the alert online week, we aim to increase awareness Big data provides ample opportunities for our business and teach our customers how to behave on social media. We believe development. At the same time, our customers want us to respect that this will increase the perception of KPN as a thought leader on their privacy. We only process customer data when our customers privacy and security and will further strengthen our image as a explicitly ask us to do so. There is much difference in privacy reliable telecom provider. For 2015, we want 70% of our customers regulation globally. This makes it hard for us to compete with to feel their data is safe in the hands of KPN. foreign companies that have business models using data as a currency without explicit permission. We will have to find a way Furthermore, we want to simplify our privacy statement by further to deal with this dilemma in a manner that respects customer improving clarity and transparency. Our simplified statement will wishes and privacy demands. be clear on the data used, the ways we use it, the aspects we want our customers to be aware of, and the areas where customers can The telecom sector often receives requests to remove unwanted sign off. Customer privacy benefits from simple and integrated content from the internet, for example if it shows violence. Although processes, because they allow for better control and easier we agree that harmful content should not be accessible on the overview. In this way, privacy also benefits from the results internet, it is not up to us to assess the amount of potential damage of the company-wide simplification program. and making content-related judgments ourselves. We think the responsibility of providing organizations with a framework Internet safety for deciding whether certain content is a violation of law lies Together with the Abuse Information Exchange, we aim to include primarily with the government. This also holds for the supervision customers and strengthen their opportunities to take control of of uploading and downloading content from illegal sources. their internet safety. In 2015, we will introduce more tools and We refer requests like this to the law enforcement agencies. products for end users to enable them to improve their internet safety and prevent incidents from occurring. Ambition In 2015, we will introduce a new version of our free downloadable Security and child-friendly web browser ‘MyBee’. In this initiative, we Providing our customers with a secure network and secure cooperate with external partners such as the Dutch foundation products and services is a never-ending challenge. A proactive ‘Mijn Kind Online’. We will update the look and feel of the browser attitude remains vital in being able to detect and defend against and improve the user experience and navigation. The use of the rapid nature of evolving and persistent threats. We continue to recommended apps will be a central part of the new tool. invest in our security team and employee knowledge to keep pace with the security developments and try to remain one step ahead of people looking to abuse our services or trying to steal confidential information. This is an information security arms race, and we need to be vigilant and prepared. KPN — Integrated Annual Report 2014 47 REPORT BY THE BOARD OF MANAGEMENT — GROUP PERFORMANCE KPN Group in 20141 KPN is the leading telecommunications and information and communications technology (ICT) provider in the Netherlands. % Revenue by geography 80% 9% Netherlands Belgium 11% Global The Netherlands Consumer Mobile Consumer Residential Business We offer customized mobile services and We provide a broad portfolio of services in We offer our small, medium-sized, large products, ensuring that people can be and around the house, such as internet, and corporate business customers a wide contacted anytime, anywhere. (interactive) TV and fixed telephony. range of both standard services and customized business solutions. Services range from fixed and mobile telephony and internet to a variety of data network and IT services such as workspace management and hosting, optionally in the cloud. Our brands Our brands Our brands Further information p. 52-53 Further information p. 54-55 Further information p. 56-59 1) The remaining activities of KPN’s Germany segment are a part of Mobile International Other Segment as of January 1, 2014. See Note 35 of the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on Mobile International Other Segment. 48 KPN — Integrated Annual Report 2014 Belgium Global Netco BASE Company iBasis The beating heart of KPN where BASE Company is the successful challenger iBasis provides wholesale network services infrastructure and ICT coincide. This as the third largest mobile provider in to third parties and operates an IP-based division, which is responsible for the fixed Belgium. Its flagship is BASE. We also infrastructure for international wholesale and mobile networks and wholesale operate there with Simyo and Ortel mobile customers. customers, makes it technically possible for KPN to run its services and deliver its We are active in mobile telephony with products. Furthermore, NetCo includes our brands BASE and BASE business. our fixed wholesale services. Our brands Our brand Further information p. 60-63 Further information p. 64-65 Further information p. 66-67 1) The remaining activities of KPN’s Germany segment are a part of Mobile International Other Segment as of January 1, 2014. See Note 35 of the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on Mobile International Other Segment. KPN — Integrated Annual Report 2014 49 REPORT BY THE BOARD OF MANAGEMENT — SEGMENT PERFORMANCE “Customer satisfaction continues to rise, proving that we are doing things right” Joost Farwerck, Chief Operations Officer 50 KPN — Integrated Annual Report 2014 KPN — Integrated Annual Report 2014 51 REPORT BY THE BOARD OF MANAGEMENT — SEGMENT PERFORMANCE Our strategy in action We believe that having the best products available for our customers will be a major driver for growth in the Dutch mobile market. Within Consumer Mobile, we want to achieve this by focusing on 4G and multiplay (combining fixed and mobile services), optimizing our portfolio and reducing costs and complexity. 4G KPN was the first Dutch provider to offer KPN and Hi customers nationwide 4G coverage. During the year our no frills brands Telfort and Simyo introduced new 4G propositions, which made 4G available for all our mobile customers. Optimized portfolio Consumer Mobile We have introduced extended versions of KPN Compleet in 2014, providing our customers with new combinations of fixed and mobile services. Backed by our reliable nationwide networks, we increased both size and speed of our data bundles during the year. We introduced new 4G propositions with larger MB bundles up to 5GB for KPN and 8GB for Hi. Bundles for existing customers were enlarged in 2014, free of charge. For Telfort and Simyo, 4G is available as an extra option. As part of our multiplay proposition, we extended our family package with ‘MB sharing’, an option to transfer bundle credit from one family member to another. High-quality customer service Overview highlights, KPIs & other targets Last year’s efforts to improve our customers’ service experience by improving our ability to deliver ‘first time right’ customer care has Highlights led to higher customer satisfaction ratings, demonstrated by higher ýý Reached nationwide 4G coverage in March 2014 Net Promoter Scores. For example, we enhanced service levels in ýý Realized strong base growth our contact shops by linking our regular shops and XL stores. When ýý Realized ~65% reduction in number of propositions confronted with a non-standard service issue, every shop employee ýý Financial performance reflects investment in base growth can contact a service expert at the XL store nearby to help resolve ýý Increased overall NPS mobile brands to +2 the problem instantly. In 2014, we increased the number of XL stores to 17 and maintained our three business centers. The NPS of our regular shops increased to +25 (2013: +19). The NPS of our Revenue EBITDA XL stores remained relatively stable at +34 (2013: +33). € 1,407m € 191m (2013: € 1,510m) (2013: € 410m) “At Consumer Mobile, we have given over 350,000 customers a better price plan and reduced the number of 43% 1,332k price plans by 64%. Simplicity contributes directly towards Total Dutch mobile 4G subscribers customer satisfaction” market share (2013: 323k) Bastiaan Germs, (2013: 44%) Commercial Product Manager We also optimized our online services, for example by simplified access to Mijn KPN (the personalized online portal for customers) and the introduction of a Social Service & Command center which enables us to answer customer questions in their own social media channels such as Twitter. Further simplifying our client processes, for example our online self-care, will be a focus for 2015. Another subject that we found important to improve for our customers was 52 KPN — Integrated Annual Report 2014 proactive communication on scheduled network maintenance Key financials (in millions of EUR, unless indicated otherwise) 2014 2013 % and notifications, in case of a network failure. For example, we Service revenue 1,269 1,405 -9.7% started pilots to use SMS and Online to communicate any network Revenue and other income 1,407 1,510 -6.8% problems as soon as these occur. On kpn.com our customers help Adjusted revenue and other income 1,407 1,503 -6.4% other customers with questions and answers on the KPN forum. In EBITDA 191 410 -53% 2014, the amount of visitors increased significantly, and so did the Adjusted EBITDA 192 410 -53% number of problems solved. We also improved our mobile service Adjusted EBITDA margin 13.6% 27.3% apps by among other things adding a user guide video, information about network disturbances and invoices on MyKPN mobile. We Operational performance indicators also added a Windows version to the iOs and Android apps. (in thousands unless indicated otherwise) 2014 2013 % Total Dutch mobile market share1 (in %) 43 44 n.m. Please refer to the Consumer Residential section of this report Wireless customers 7,540 7,351 3% for more information about customer service developments. Net adds postpaid 176 14 >100% Net adds prepaid 13 -242 n.m. Products and services ARPU retail postpaid (in EUR) 27 31 -13% Committed ARPU (in %) ~77% ~72% n.m. We offer mobile telephone and data services. As market leader Number of 4G customers 1,332 323 >100% in the dynamic mobile arena, we continued to optimize our multi-brand approach. The increasing dominance of smartphones 1) Based on service revenues. and tablets leads to an explosive growth in mobile data traffic. High-quality brand KPN and youth brand Hi offer large 4G data bundles combined with value added services such as Spotify and multiplay (combining fixed and mobile services). In the no frills segment, Telfort offers a modular portfolio, including mid-range smartphones and the ability to combine them with Telfort Fixed in a multiplay portfolio. Online brand Simyo is successful with its SIM-only propositions. Our Mobile Wholesale activities offer flexible customized “Like my sister was standing right next to me” platforms enabling partners to successfully introduce their own mobile propositions in the market. Adelinde Bennaars Two years a customer Financial and operational review “My sister Amely moved to Aruba last time we spoke, while Adjusted revenues and other income went down by 6.4% in 2014, three years ago. We only meet I was on a ski slope in Austria. mainly driven by lower service revenues due to lower ARPU levels up once a year but, fortunately, Without having to connect year-on-year. ARPU decreased to EUR 27 (2013: EUR 31) due to I can see and speak with her all sorts of cables in advance, lower above bundle usage and a continued competitive market. whenever I like via Skype. It’s we made direct contact and Strong base growth during 2014 has contributed to an improving so nice to actually ‘see’ her. It’s could see and hear each other trend in underlying service revenue growth in the second half of almost like living part of her life perfectly. It was almost like the year but for the full year service revenue decreased by 9.7%. with her on Aruba. I not only standing next to each other; Committed postpaid retail ARPU improved to ~77%, up five see Amely getting more blond me in my snowboard boots percentage points year-on-year. and more tanned but I also and her in her flip-flops. Having get to see her home and her the freedom to be there for her, Adjusted EBITDA decreased by EUR 218 million in 2014 driven friends. Recently, we also began wherever and whenever I want, by the decline in service revenue, having direct EBITDA impact, to Skype via mobile, thanks to is invaluable to me.” phasing out of handset lease and higher retention and subscriber KPN. She was feeling homesick acquisition costs as a result of a large number of new handset subscriptions. Retail postpaid net adds were +176,000 in 2014 (2013: +14,000), mainly driven by 4G and the uptake of fixedmobile bundles. Consumer Mobile saw lower churn across all brands due to the strong focus on retention, fixed-mobile bundles and increased customer satisfaction. Consumer 4G subscriptions increased to 1,332,000 in 2014, up from 323,000 at the end of 2013, representing a 40% penetration of the retail postpaid customer base. 21% of retail postpaid customers were in fixed-mobile bundles at the end of the year (2013: 8%). Both 4G and fixed-mobile bundles are driving a significant reduction in churn. The churn for KPN’s mobile brands is approximately 50% lower for subscribers that are part of a quad-play subscription compared with a mobile only subscriber. KPN — Integrated Annual Report 2014 53 REPORT BY THE BOARD OF MANAGEMENT — SEGMENT PERFORMANCE Our strategy in action In 2014, the market further developed into an integrated market for multiplay services. At Consumer Residential, we focus on our IPTV proposition and increasing the number of triple-play customers within our base. Combined with Consumer Mobile 4G mobile subscriptions, we offer our customers the full range of services in our multiplay proposition KPN Compleet and Telfort CombiVoordeel. Since IPTV is an important driver for triple-play growth, we continued to improve our IPTV proposition. Optimized portfolio In 2014, we simplified our portfolio for residential consumers. We introduced the new integrated fiber/copper line-up consisting of only four broadband propositions for KPN brand compared Consumer Residential with over 20 propositions before. We also extended the range of combined propositions for fixed and mobile services. With KPN Compleet, customers who combine fixed internet, voice and IPTV with a mobile KPN or Hi subscription benefit from free services, such as 40 extra IPTV channels or twice as much data, SMS and minutes within their mobile subscription. We introduced a similar proposition for our Telfort and business customers in 2014. High-quality customer service In 2014, we optimized our omni-channel service approach. It is our ambition that customers have a positive experience with our brands, whether they contact us in one of our shops, online, via Overview highlights, KPIs & other targets customer contact centers or when an engineer visits them at home. Therefore, we continued to optimize the cooperation Highlights between our customer interaction channels. For example, in ýý Broadband customer base returned to growth 2014 we introduced ‘click & collect’ at Telfort which provides ýý Realized ~85% reduction in number of propositions our customers with the choice to pick up online purchases at ýý Introduced IPTV Online with functionalities on laptop, their Telfort shop of choice. We also increasingly integrate our smartphone and tablet sales and services activities. ýý Increased overall NPS residential brands to +2 “Watching TV programs is as Revenue EBITDA popular as ever. Nowadays, € 1,916m € 404m everyone leads a hectic everyday life, so it can be a lot more (2013: € 1,962m) (2013: € 375m) convenient if you can watch a program wherever and whenever it suits YOU. With KPN’s iTV, around 50% 2.26 one and a half million households have that freedom every day” Triple-play penetration of Number of products per Diederik Rosenbaum, broadband customers customer (RGU) Manager TV & Propositions (2013: 44%) (2013: 2.19) 54 KPN — Integrated Annual Report 2014 smartphone and tablet. We serve our customers in the residential “We can watch our favorite TV shows whenever area with three brands. KPN is our quality brand, providing our we want” customers with value-added services such as Spotify as part of the subscription. XS4ALL is the high-end brand for the top of Naomi van Schaik, the market. With Telfort, we are successful in serving the no frills One year a customer segment. These three brands allow us to service all segments in the market. “Four months ago, I switched program from the beginning to Interactive TV from KPN. when I’ve switched on too late. Financial and operational review My 12-year-old son, in particular, My 19-year-old daughter has finds it extremely convenient to just left home and has also Adjusted revenue and other income decreased with EUR 33 million watch TV where, how and when immediately subscribed to compared with 2013 driven by the ongoing decline of traditional he pleases. To be honest, I don’t Interactive TV from KPN. She voice services and promotional activities to support broadband watch a lot of TV myself but he is just as enthusiastic as my son and IPTV base growth. Market share TV increased to 27%, up two is very pleased with Interactive about the freedom Interactive percentage points year-on-year. ARPU per customer increased to TV and can easily explain to me TV offers.” EUR 44 by the end of 2014 (2013: EUR 42) partly driven by how I can rewind or watch a increased RGUs per customer. Commercial initiatives, including the integrated FttH/copper proposition, combined with the copper network upgrades, resulted in high broadband and IPTV base growth in 2014. KPN’s total broadband customer base returned to growth (+33,000) in 2014. KPN showed continued good IPTV net adds (+237,000) in 2014, reaching 1.6 million IPTV customers at the end of 2014. FttH activations increased by 88,000 in 2014 leading to 572,000 homes activated at the end of 2014. Supported by this strong growth, KPN’s triple-play penetration continued to increase and reached 50% of the broadband base, six percentage points higher compared with 2013. The number of triple-play packages went up by +162,000. Adjusted EBITDA increased by EUR 33 million or 8.7%. Decrease in adjusted revenue and other income is fully compensated by a decrease in costs. The First Contact Resolution increased in 2014, which indicates that The good uptake of fixed-mobile bundles (including quad-play) more customers do not have to call us several times for the same led to a fixed-mobile base of 485,000 at the end of the year problem. In 2014, we have continued efforts to change the way (2013: 173,000), representing 17% of the broadband customer our customer contact centers work. An increasing number of our base. The strong growth of fixed-mobile bundles combined with helpdesk agents are multi-skilled in providing fixed (IPTV, internet, network upgrades and quality improvements supported customer voice) and mobile solutions in order to answer different questions in base growth and churn reduction. the same call. By improving the quality of our services, we reduced the number of calls to our customer contact centers. Our overall NPS Key financials (in millions of EUR, unless indicated otherwise) 2014 2013 flux % for helpdesk contacts increased from +0 in 2013 to +5 in 2014 for Revenue and other income 1,916 1,962 -2.3% residential services. Adjusted revenue and other income 1,916 1,949 -1.7% EBITDA 404 375 7.7% Appreciation of engineers’ visits by our customers was in 2014 Adjusted EBITDA 412 379 8.7% at a stable high level with an average NPS of +50 (2013: + 44). Adjusted EBITDA margin 21.5% 20.2% 10% For information on improved service in our shops and online, Operational performance indicators see Consumer Mobile section. (in thousands unless indicated otherwise) 2014 2013 flux % Market share broadband (in %) 40 41 n.m. Products and services Market share TV (in %) 27 25 n.m. ARPU blended (in EUR) 44 42 4.8% We offer TV, broadband internet and fixed-line telephony RGU (in EUR) 2.26 2.19 3.0% on a stand-alone basis, as dual or triple-play packages and as Number of triple-play packages 1,378 1,216 13% fixed-mobile combined packages (possible with 1, 2 and 3 fixed Number of FttH activated 572 484 18% subscriptions). In 2014, we focused on adding more value for our customers by upgrading internet speeds, providing new IPTV services and improving MijnKPN environment. Since July, KPN brand has introduced new extended versions of the fixed-mobile packages (Compleet), where customers can combine, besides triple play, now also singleand dual-play fixed subscriptions with mobile. New IPTV functionalities include IPTV Online with functionalities on laptop, KPN — Integrated Annual Report 2014 55 REPORT BY THE BOARD OF MANAGEMENT — SEGMENT PERFORMANCE Our strategy in action The business of our customers is constantly changing, resulting in shifting telecom and ICT demands. Companies are looking for integrated communication solutions and services that can be securely accessed anytime and everywhere, while maintaining visibility on costs. As of January 2014, we have successfully integrated ICT Solutions in our Business Segment, meeting the customer need for integrated telecom and ICT services. Our business clients are also increasingly focused on their core services, leading to higher outsourcing levels and demand for standardized ICT services. Against this background of continued rationalization and optimization by its customers, KPN announced a restructuring plan in December 2014 (see Financial and operational review below). With this restructuring, KPN intends to achieve stronger Business customer focus and increased standardization. Optimized portfolio In 2014, we took KPN ÉÉN to the next level by launching our partner program ‘Excellence’ for the small and medium-sized enterprises (SME) segment. With this step, we are advancing from connectivity to collaboration, while reaching for the highest service level for our clients. For the Small offices/Home offices (SoHo) segment, we introduced a new services line-up in the fourth quarter of 2014, including KPN Compleet, which removes the boundaries between private and professional use of our integrated services. This line-up comes with Service Plus, a 24/7 Overview highlights, KPIs & other targets B2B helpdesk. Highlights Cloud is an important topic on the agenda of the ICT and Business ýý Ongoing decline in market size impacting financial performance decision-maker, but many are questioning data security, before ýý Realized ~20% reduction in number of propositions migrating their ICT infrastructure and applications to the cloud. ýý Transforming organization to address market dynamics As we are offering secure and compliant cloud solutions, we ýý Growing demand for new services such as cloud and M2M launched a campaign in the second quarter of 2014, addressing ýý Increased overall NPS to -13 this perceived barrier: “Do you know who can get access to your data? Store your business securely in the Netherlands.” Going forward, the amount of data created by people and things, the Revenue EBITDA internet of things, will increase enormously, which can bring value to our clients. We assist our clients by providing a big data € 2,920m € 590m platform and analytical tools as a service and providing insights, while safeguarding the privacy of all our customers. (2013: € 3,201m) (2013: € 706m) High-quality customer service We aim to offer the best services to our customers, whether it is our 4G, our integrated services, or our market-leading cloud, Access lines 4G customers datacenter services and security services. As in the consumer market, we continued efforts to change the way our customer € 864k € 733k contact centers work. This led to an improved NPS of -13 (2013: -18). We will continue our efforts in 2015 to further improve NPS. (2013: € 994k) (2013: € 220k) We continued our successful NPS program for the corporate market segment. The recommendation score given by our corporate clients increased to 7.2 at the end of 2014 (2013: 7.1). Result Result The success of the program lies in the customer improvement Other CSR targets 2014 2013 plans made by the account manager and the customer together, Number of healthcare locations 4,297 4,319 connected with Healthcloud based on customer feedback. Because of the success of this Number of healthcare customers 38,696 ~40,000 approach, we started to implement a similar approach for provided with personal comfort the customers in the large enterprise segment, resulting services (Tréés and CareFree at Home) in a recommendation score of 7.1 at the end of 2014. Percentage of growth in the 43% 5% Netherlands of the use of services compared compared that make The New Way of Living with 2013 with 2012 In 2014, we received the award for the ‘Best Infrastructure & Working possible Provider’ in the Netherlands from Computable Magazine. 56 KPN — Integrated Annual Report 2014 Products and services Financial and operational review We have a tailored approach focused on customer needs in three The challenging market environment impacted the financial segments: corporate, large enterprises and SME (including SoHo) performance of the Business segment in 2014. The total size segment. Our main brand, KPN, is used in all three segments and of the business market continued to decline as a result of has a market-leading position, while the challenger brands focus on ongoing customer rationalization and optimization. Traditional the SME segment (Telfort, Yes Telecom) and SoHo segment (Telfort). high-margin services continued to decline, while demand for Towards certain specific sectors such as healthcare, critical new services such as cloud and M2M is growing. KPN is therefore communications, education and local government, we have actively transforming the Business organization to address these adopted a so-called vertical approach. changing market dynamics, and has taken further steps to de-layer and simplify the organization, including the additional reduction We offer our customers solutions for seamless, continued of up to 580 FTEs announced in December 2014. communication, along with flat-fee price plans to provide cost assurance. IP technology provides a future-proof Adjusted revenue and other income decreased by EUR 268 million foundation for new services, such as mobile banking, electronic driven by the declining total market, resulting in lower revenues payments, videoconferencing, telecommuting and e-learning. from traditional services. Traditional voice services remained To multinational corporations and other large enterprises we under pressure due to rationalization and the ongoing migration offer end-to-end solutions centered on workspace management, towards VoIP, which saw access lines fall to 864 thousand at the connectivity solutions, information security and datacenters. end of 2014 (2013: 994,000). Traditional voice ARPU was somewhat lower year-on-year at EUR 51 (2013: EUR 52). Also, wireless KPN ÉÉN single-play ARPU remained under pressure and was lower With KPN ÉÉN, we offer our customers a simplified and bundled year-on-year at EUR 41 (2013: EUR 45). solution by combining fixed voice, fixed internet and mobile services as well as hosted/virtual PBX and cloud services. The Adjusted EBITDA decreased by EUR 134 million, with the decrease price of KPN ÉÉN is based on a flat-fee per employee and takes in traditional revenues having direct EBITDA impact, partly offset into account different employee profiles. by lower personnel expenses. Main strategic initiatives as discussed above are showing positive results. The investments in wireless customer base growth led to “The Dutch National Railway net adds of 52,000. The 4G Business customer base increased to company NS is going to use KPN’s 733,000 in 2014 (2013: 220,000), and 42% of the wireless Business workplace solution, KPN Werkplek, customer base was on 4G at the end of 2014. Multiplay seats which allows employees to work increased by 146,000 in 2014 to 301,000, equivalent to 14% of the wireless customer base. together more easily. The solution dovetails with NS Next, the New Key financials (in millions of EUR, unless indicated otherwise) 2014 2013 flux % Way of Living & Working program Revenue and other income 2,920 3,201 -8.8% of NS, which gives employees the Underlying revenue and other income 2,910 3,178 -8.4% freedom to arrange their working EBITDA 590 706 -16% hours more flexibly” Adjusted EBITDA 606 740 -18% Adjusted EBITDA margin 20.8% 23.3% 10% Rob Heemskerk, Account Director Sales Operational performance indicators (in thousands unless indicated otherwise) 2014 2013 flux % Access lines 864 994 -13% Business DSL 189 193 -2.1% Network services, workspace management and cloud-based Connections VPN 76 77 -1.3% solutions Wireless customers (excluding M2M) 1,726 1,674 3.1% KPN offers network services ranging from traditional data Number of 4G customers 733 220 >100% services to Virtual Private Network Services (IP-VPN and E-VPN), ARPU wireless blended (EUR) 43 47 -8.5% both nationally and internationally. We also host datacenter resources and we offer our clients a full range of services in the Our strategy in action: healthcare of the future fields of workspace management, unified communications, secure managed devices, cloud-based solutions and service aggregation, Our healthcare portfolio consists of several services and products to all segments ranging from the mid-market to the corporate with which people can feel free and that contribute to higher enterprise market. Our cloud service Software Online includes efficiency and lower costs for the sector. We facilitate the Office 365, Back-up Online and Storage Online. possibility to live at home longer through the use of a cardiac rhythm service and CareFree at Home (ZorgVrijThuis). With these Consulting services services, people can experience more freedom of movement and With our brands Call2 and KPN Consulting, our consulting greater independence. For healthcare practitioners, we facilitate services include (private) cloud, workspace innovation, business HealthCloud and HealthWorkplace, with which they can work in communications, applications, project and program management, a secure environment, independent of place and time. facilitating organizational development and change, and security and compliance. KPN — Integrated Annual Report 2014 57 REPORT BY THE BOARD OF MANAGEMENT — SEGMENT PERFORMANCE Business Solutions for healthcare consumers In 2014, we integrated Tréés, a mobile alarm device with GPS, in the “New system, single supplier, greater scope M2M delivery portal, which means provisioning and changes can for growth” be done online and on the go. For CareFree at Home and Tréés, we developed a smartphone application for informal and professional Jaap van der Welle, caretakers. With this app, caretakers can change their availability Manager Corporate ICT, Mourik instantly and accept or decline calls triggered by an alarm. 20 years a customer We increased the number of CareFree at Home customers and connected 275 in 2014. In total, we provided 38,696 customers with “Mourik is active worldwide benefits of this, whereas in personal comfort services and thus did not reach our target, because in the field of construction, the past we needed to enter the sale of CareFree at Home went more slowly than expected and project development and into agreements with four the renewal of our cardiac rhythm service was delayed. We further industrial services. Mutual different suppliers. To increase developed our cardiac rhythm service to make healthcare available cooperation and international engagement within our and affordable in the future (for further information, see the section growth are spearheads for our organization, we asked our on innovation on page 28-29). organization, and a suitable employees their opinions on telephony environment is an the implementation of the important part of this. For our new communication platform complex organization – with during workshops organized “Elderly people want to be able numerous operating companies by KPN. What do you need? to live at home longer, and in various locations, comprising What is missing? This produced KPN Zorg offers services that many different cultures – very useful feedback. Virtually give them that freedom. We a cloud solution from KPN the entire organization is seemed the most logical choice. enthusiastic about the connect the elderly and caregivers, KPN offers data and voice new system. The path to so together we can care for one services, its own datacenters international growth is now another better” and all the surrounding IT. As free from obstructions.” clients, we are able to reap the Chantal Brouwers, Commercial Product Manager ZorgVrijWonen ZorgVrijThuis and Tréés Solutions for healthcare professionals For healthcare locations, we further developed the HealthCloud, integrating our former services eHealth, HealthConnect, and generic services of KPN and partners. This means we can deliver more simplified and inclusive services over our secured networks. Security and privacy are key priorities and prerequisites of our professional healthcare customers regarding the exchange of personal information and data. Our portfolio, with products and services such as KPN Secure Mail and HealthCloud, is developed with these sector demands in mind. We connected HealthCloud with CloudNL, which is a safe data storage system that guarantees local data storage in the Netherlands, and with the security Dialogue portfolio of Trusted Service and external partners. We connected We have frequent contact with our stakeholders about developments 4,297 healthcare locations with the HealthCloud. We did not reach in the healthcare sector, our products and services and their our target, because we had some technical issues with onboarding expectations on our role and responsibility. In 2014, we organized new customers in the first half of 2014. These problems have been several events. We participated at the Mhealth congress, where we resolved, so in 2015 we will continue connecting new locations in discussed the opportunities and risks related to information exchange. different healthcare segments. During the Zorg&ICT congress, we organized a special session where we elaborated on HealthCloud, which led to multiple invitations from To be able to make it possible for healthcare practitioners to work customers and partners to investigate possible ways of cooperation. anywhere, anytime, we developed the KPN Health Workplace. This service enables first-line health practitioners, such as pharmacists Dilemma and general practitioners, to work safely in a large variety of We are continuously looking for ICT innovations for the healthcare applications by using our cloud services. With these developments, sector, for patients as well as healthcare practitioners. Caregivers we are able to provide healthcare locations with high-quality secure can spend more time on actual healthcare, our ICT innovations systems that improve vital exchange of knowledge between health contribute to higher efficiency and it lowers costs for the sector. practitioners, also with their patients, in a safe and reliable way. Privacy and security are key priorities when it comes to patient data and to new healthcare solutions. The dilemma within this field is that safety in the provision of information can slow down the innovation speed. To minimize negative effects and delays at the end of the innovation process, we take security criteria into account directly at the design phase. 58 KPN — Integrated Annual Report 2014 Ambition To support the sales of typical The New Way of Living & Working Our ambition for 2015 is to achieve growth in our healthcare products, we promoted our KPN Bespaarmeter. We think this tool, portfolio. We will do this by enriching our portfolio with vertical which can be used to calculate possible time, cost and energy knowledge and ICT solutions for specific healthcare knowledge savings resulting from the implementation of The New Way of and for the challenges within the field, such as HealthCloud. Living & Working products and services, is not used often enough We do this by reducing the number of network solutions in by (potential) customers. Based on feedback from specialists, we our healthcare portfolio to two, and increasing the availability concluded that it was too technical. We are currently investigating of related services on our network for health practitioners. We how we can improve and refine the tool, for example by adding aim to increase the number of connected healthcare locations to new products and services. 4,700. In 2015, our target for the number of healthcare consumers provided with personal comfort services is 31,000, which is lower For 2015, we aim for a 40% growth in the use of products and than last year because of the rationalization of our portfolio. services that make the New Way of Working & Living possible. Our strategy in action: the New Way of Living & Working The New Way of Living & Working allows our customers to save time, costs and energy and contributes to the work-life balance of their employees. We aim for a growth in the use of products and services that make the New Way of Working & Living possible. We identify three typical product groups that provide the basis for our target: the conference card, videoconferencing online and workplace online. But we extended the number of products and services included in our growth calculation method. These products and services include “We now have the freedom to invest” CloudNL, Office365, Lync and HCS bundles, KPN ÉÉN, the MSE workplace, Storage Online and Mobile working. In 2014, we Bernard Frerichs, achieved a growth on the use of products and services in this Advisor and project lead, Waterschap Hollandse Delta portfolio. For mature products, it was 3% (conference cards, Nine years a customer videoconference, werkplek online and mobile); for growth products, it was ~120% (Cloud, Lync and HCS). This means “Our pumping stations, waste works in close cooperation with a blended, unweighted growth of 43%. water purification facilities, the Rivierenland water board, sluices and locks are operated so we wanted a package that In 2014, we developed the Collaboration Card, which integrates remotely from a central included complete compatibility videoconference, teleconference, Lync, conference card and monitoring station. Information between mobile and fixed SharePoint. The Collaboration Card enables meetings in which on how these waterworks are telephony for both water part of the attendants join via video, while others can join via functioning is transmitted to boards. The solution was KPN their (mobile) phone or Lync. In 2015, this service will be evaluated a central computer by our FixedMobile in one and an as part of an overall review of unified communications and employees, via the fixed and entirely in-house GSM network collaboration tooling. The way forward is to ‘practice what mobile networks. To keep our at both locations. Our two you preach’ by deploying standard KPN communication tooling service areas safe and dry, we water boards now save more (part of KPN ÉÉN). must have complete faith in our than 25% on fixed and mobile data and telecommunications telephony costs. This provides We are a thought leader on The New Way of Living & Working in the infrastructure. But we also had us with elbow room to invest Netherlands and aim to support and stimulate its implementation other requirements to meet in in other business goals, and development for our customers on technical, managerial and our search for a new telephony such as the procurement of social aspects. To support our customers and the sales of typical provider: simplicity, quality geo-measuring equipment New Way of Living & Working products and services, we organized and good value, for example. for in the field and and hosted several events during the year and were active in the Waterschap Hollandse Delta portable communications.” public debate. We hosted a congress for our supplier Sodexo, which was attended by around 60 Sodexo suppliers. We gave a presentation on the impact of the New Way of Living & Working on facility management. Together with the Dutch WWF, we developed a white paper in which we discussed how the New Way of Living & Working can create opportunities to expand and open new markets for products and services that significantly avoid emissions for our customers. We cooperated with the Mirro Foundation. Mirro developed an online self-help and training module on the New Way of Living & Working. We provided a number of videos that are included in the module and informed customers and the public of its existence via KPN Actueel and our account managers. We also participated actively in the public debate on flexible working, for example by giving interviews for a number of national newspapers and publishing articles and blog posts on our corporate website. KPN — Integrated Annual Report 2014 59 REPORT BY THE BOARD OF MANAGEMENT — SEGMENT PERFORMANCE Our strategy in action Our strategy is based on our main ambition to be the connectivity provider of choice in all our markets and for all our customers. Key in executing our strategy are our best-in-class networks and operational excellence. We have strengthened both our fixed and mobile networks and focus on implementing the best, most energy-efficient and information-secure technologies. We can only realize operational excellence if we have simple products and services, delivered with simple processes and standardized IT. Simplification In 2014, we have made significant progress with our simplification program, reducing complexity in both IT and TI and reducing, among others, the number of incidents while at the same time NetCo improving efficiency. Invest in best-in-class networks In 2014, we have again invested heavily in our network infrastructure. We are continuously working to maintain and improve the reliability and speed of our fixed and mobile networks resulting in significant improvements in quality, capacity and simplification. We were the first to reach nationwide 4G indoor coverage in the Netherlands in March 2014. By accelerating the 4G mobile network roll-out, we have confirmed our role as the leading provider in the Netherlands. As part of our 4G strategy, we use a combination of Overview highlights, KPIs & other targets 800MHz, 1800MHz and 2600MHz spectrum to ensure high-quality 4G services to consumers and business customers throughout the Highlights Netherlands. Like our existing 2G and 3G mobile networks, our ýý Continued FttH roll-out and reached almost 2 million homes passed 4G network now has 99% indoor coverage in the Netherlands. ýý Reached 50% coverage of Dutch households with access to Another illustration of network improvement is the roll-out of download speeds of at least 100Mbps LTE-1800, an additional 4G frequency, in order to increase data ýý Strengthened our best-in-class networks including improving speed and capacity. Combining LTE-1800 with the 800 MHz security and business continuity frequency is called 4G+ or LTE-advanced. ýý Technological developments driving higher future bandwidth We started a trial in July 2014 to explore the possibilities of VoLTE technology including Video over LTE. Key customer benefits are Revenue EBITDA making and receiving calls all on the 4G network while watching videos or streaming data, switching from voice to video and back, € 2,262m € 1,241m faster call set-up time and HD quality in both voice and video. In our fixed network, we continued upgrading our copper (2013: € 2,343m) (2013: € 1,297m) network. We rolled out the VDSL outerrings, implemented pair bonding and vectoring. A combination of the technologies pair bonding and vectoring enables significantly increased broadband 1,952k 99% internet bandwidth on our copper network. Through vectoring, ~50% of Dutch households reached download speeds of 100Mbps at the end of 2014. At the end of 2014, we reached 26% of the Fiber-to-the-Home – 4G indoor coverage households in the Netherlands with our FttH network. Homes passed (2013: 76%) To support our best-in-class access services, we continue to move (2013: 1,635k) towards an all-IP network. Moving towards a single IP core is needed to ensure best-in-class integrated access. A singe IP core Result Result will allow for optimization for very high data volumes, reduced Other CSR targets 2014 2013 complexity and faster time to market. Percentage of the Netherlands Consumers: 47% Consumers: 46% that agree that KPN has the best fixed network, best fixed best ICT Infra 46% best mobile network, 52% best network mobile network Business: 74% best Business: 64% best fixed network, 68% fixed network, best mobile 58% best network mobile network Percentage of households with 77% 70% more than 40Mb connection Dropped-call rate nation wide: 0.37% 0.6% Network statistics: combined voice drop-rate 2G and 3G 60 KPN — Integrated Annual Report 2014 Conduct business in a sustainable way Investing in best-in-class networks also implies an energy-efficient “A respected telecom partner lends us status” network. It is our aim to reduce our absolute energy consumption by improving the energy efficiency of our networks. Our Dutch Wim van der Worp, networks operate climate neutral, as all electricity used is 100% Chairman – Netherlands Heartbeat Foundation green, generated locally from wind turbines and biomass, and remaining emissions are compensated for. Best-in-class networks “Stichting Hartslag voor messages reach their also imply investing in improving security and business continuity Nederland (Netherlands destination on time. This is in order to minimize the risk of disruptions by building resilience Heartbeat Foundation) is a why we chose KPN’s reliable into structures and processes. partnership between regional network but there was also ambulance services. Two years another reason. In the future, Customer experience ago, we introduced the SMS we would also like to use GPS To become the best service provider, we focus on being the best ICT alert system HartslagNu to reach those volunteers who operator as experienced by our customers. The customer experience (HeartbeatNow). It works in are closest to the patient. is influenced by several factors. We focus on strengthening our the following way: if someone Since this involves issues relationship with customers through operational excellence suffers a cardiac arrest, an of privacy, it needs to be and by rewarding loyalty. Another important driver for customer ambulance is immediately approved by the government. experience is the strengthening of our fixed and mobile networks dispatched to them. But With a company like KPN and ICT platforms by implementing the best, most energy-efficient that’s not all. An SMS is also behind us, we are more likely and information-secure technologies. For example, 4G improves the immediately sent to 30 CPR to be seen as a serious partner customer experience by providing significantly higher speeds, up to volunteers who live or work by the government. This will ten times faster than the 3G network. close to the patient and can give us the scope to further reach them quickly. It is expand our service and save Also, a proactive and timely communication about disruptions therefore literally a matter of even more lives.” and scheduled maintenance is very important. life and death that these SMS We regularly receive feedback from customers on our services (Closed Loop Feedback process). The feedback from our customers is continuously used for the improvement of our services. This results in an increase in perception on being the best ICT operator. Among our business customers, this is 74% in the fixed segment. In the Mobile Segment, this is 68%. Within our Consumer Segment, this is 47% for fixed and 46% for mobile. For this data, we used a different panel set (still representative for the Dutch population), and a different set of sub-questions (more simple) compared with 2013, which makes a comparison between 2013 and 2014 not reliable. Besides that, we now summarize KPN brands for the Business Segment as well, because they use the same ICT infrastructure. Products and services Network and IT services NetCo is responsible for the planning, roll-out and operations and We offer a full range of fixed and mobile services and we aim to maintenance of fixed and mobile networks in the Netherlands. deliver the best connectivity to our customers, independent of Furthermore, NetCo includes our fixed wholesale services. location and device. Given the growth of data traffic and online services, the internet and its infrastructure can increasingly be considered as the backbone of “Behind the scenes, we ensure society. A similar development can be observed with respect to that all mobile data services mobile devices such as tablets and smartphones. People tend to work optimally. We avert have a blind trust in connectivity. As a result, both the well-being breakdowns or solve them of people and the functioning of society strongly depend on the quality of our ICT infrastructure, which puts a heavy responsibility as quickly as we can, so that on KPN. This is why we strive to operate best-in-class networks. our customers get the best possible service” To monitor our ambition to run the best ICT infrastructure, we measure both our technical performance and customers’ Boyke Ghoerai, perception. Technical performance can be expressed in the Technical Manager Mobile Value dropped-call rate, the coverage of mobile networks, the average Added Services data speed of our network and the downtime of our services. We measure perception by the percentage of Dutch customers who rate our network as the best in the Netherlands. KPN — Integrated Annual Report 2014 61 REPORT BY THE BOARD OF MANAGEMENT — SEGMENT PERFORMANCE Netco In order to fulfill our promise, we undertook several initiatives this Challenges year including nationwide coverage with 4G, continued roll-out of Despite all efforts to increase network quality, we face a couple VDSL and upgrading street cabinets. By increasing redundancy in of challenges. A discussion has emerged about the coverage and the network, we reduced the vulnerability of connections and availability of the national emergency number 112 in some remote improved the quality and reliability for customers. areas. The issue was broadcast on national television and the Dutch parliament discussed the subject. At locations near the We succeeded in improving our dropped-call rate. Dropped calls Dutch border, full frequency power is not always possible as it are a serious source of annoyance for customers. Realizing a rate might cause interferences with foreign mobile broadcast systems. of 0.67% last year, 2014 showed a further improvement to 0.37%, However, mobile coverage is only one aspect in realizing a 112 easily meeting our 0.6% target. This performance belongs to the emergency call. The success is also influenced by issues such as top ten worldwide. It seems that our efforts to focus on customers the quality of a mobile phone, weather circumstances and other with a 4% or higher dropped-call rate paid off. Additionally, we external factors. Also, the realization of a call depends on a started working with suppliers of mobile phones to remove the complex routing via the fixed network, the national emergency reasons for dropped calls, which are sometimes caused by control center and the rights regional control centers. Errors can hardware or software on the device. occur at all interfaces in the process of this call realization. We continuously invest in our networks to improve our mobile Wholesale services services for customers and increase resilience regarding external We provide wholesale services that include access to our copper risks such as power disruptions and disturbances at locations. and fiber networks such as wholesale line rental, wholesale Furthermore, we consult with provinces and municipalities to find broadband access and wholesale fiber and value-added services. additional ways of improving local network coverage. Another Wholesale customers can purchase access to passive network obstacle concerns the licensing procedures for installing or infrastructure alone or together with our active operator services, adjusting street cabinets in order to improve the quality of our allowing telecom operators and service providers to offer their services for customers, sometimes causing temporary local own services to end customers. We also provide wholesale nuisance. It is a challenge to minimize these unwanted social customers with cloud computing and other services. See impacts, while guaranteeing maximum product experience for Consumer Mobile for our wholesale mobile services. customers. Finally, consumers have sometimes encountered poor display quality using our TV service Digitenne. Infrastructure Copper network Ambition 2015 In 2014, we have invested heavily in technologies such as pair We will continue our efforts in 2015 to improve network quality, bonding and vectoring in combination with the roll-out of our for instance by the availability of 100 Mbps bandwidth, by further VDSL outerrings, significantly increasing the available broadband building network redundancy, integrating core networks and pair internet bandwidth. bonding. For mobile, improving handovers will improve the network (see innovation). Moreover, technologies such as selfFiber network optimizing networks are promising and will be launched in the Through our fiber network, we offer unlimited data transport to coming year. customers with high bandwidth requirements and options for expansion such as data networks, and multi-room IPTV as well as In 2015, we aim to have at least 60% of Dutch customers perceive IPTV Online with functionalities on laptop, smartphone and tablet. our networks and ICT as the best. We realize this by committing The roll-out of the Fiber-to-the-Home (FttH) network is carried out ourselves to three technical targets. We are committed to a 30% through our subsidiary Reggefiber, which operates on the basis of reduction in the downtime of our services. We will change our an open-access model. target of % of households with >40 Mbps to % of households with >100 Mbps, because this gives a better representation of the current Mobile network market situation we are in. In 2015, 70% of our customers should In the Netherlands, we operate a 4G LTE, 3G UMTS/HSPA and a 2G be provided with >100 Mbps. With regards to the dropped-call rate, GSM network system. In 2014, continued improvements enabled we will focus on reducing the scatter of dropped calls per user. us to maintain the best-in-class networks in terms of quality and By improving the experience of the customers with a high number coverage. Mobile data continued to grow, up to 93% over 2014. of dropped calls, we most effectively improve our nationwide performance and customer experience. We set a target of a ~25% In 2014, overall down-time improved compared to 2014. reduction of customers with underperformance on dropped calls (from 77 thousand to <60 thousand). 62 KPN — Integrated Annual Report 2014 Financial and operational review “Having a reliable network has improved our services” Adjusted revenue and other income decreased by EUR 111 million Marcel Weerts, year-on-year in 2014, mainly driven by the ongoing decline of IT-manager PostNL Pakketten, PostNL traditional services and lower revenues across segments. 10 years a customer Adjusted EBITDA decreased by EUR 70 million, with the decrease “PostNL sorts around 650,000 as possible to people’s front in traditional high margin revenues having direct EBITDA impact, packages a day. Our aim is doors in a single journey. partly offset by cost savings from the Simplification program and clear: we want our customers But we also need it for our the consolidation of Reggefiber. to receive their packages as customers, so they can see quickly as possible. That’s what what is happening with their In October 2014, KPN received regulatory approval for full our clients expect and rely on. packages. All this information ownership of Reggefiber. Reggefiber’s way of building and But we also need reliable is communicated via fixed operating a passive infrastructure, its regional approach and suppliers and KPN is one such lines, KPN datacenters, hand the FttH knowledge center will be valuable to KPN’s operations. supplier. Solid, dependable terminals and drivers’ mobile Reggefiber has been fully consolidated from November 1, 2014. and with a reliable network. phones. And it is passed on to For more information on the acquisition of Reggefiber, refer to We need to record and share our clients via SMS, email and Note 31 of the Consolidated Financial Statements. a great deal of information app notifications. It happens on the location of PostNL very quickly, because we try Key financials (in millions of EUR, unless indicated otherwise) 2014 2013 flux % packages in the distribution to keep the information as up Revenue and other income 2,262 2,343 -3.5% chain. We need our own to date as possible. KPN has Adjusted revenue and other income 2,245 2,356 -4.1% system for this, so we can made it possible to improve EBITDA 1,241 1,297 -4.3% deliver as many packages our services in this area.” Adjusted EBITDA 1,228 1,298 -5.4% Adjusted EBITDA margin 54.7% 55.4% Operational performance indicators (in thousands unless indicated otherwise) 2014 2013 flux % % households > 40Mb 77% ~70% n.m. Number of FttH homes passed 1,952 1,635 19% Indoor population coverage 3G (in %) 99 95 n.m. Indoor population coverage 4G (in %) 99 76 n.m. KPN — Integrated Annual Report 2014 63 REPORT BY THE BOARD OF MANAGEMENT — SEGMENT PERFORMANCE Our strategy in action Optimized portfolio In Belgium, KPN pursues a challenger strategy and offers mobile telephony products and services through BASE Company. BASE Company kept its position as price leader in the mobile market by launching a more simplified portfolio focusing on three questions: do you like to make calls, do you like to surf and do you prefer everything unlimited? As first operator in Belgium, BASE Company launched a European postpaid offer to call and surf at the same price throughout Europe as in Belgium. In 2015, we will strengthen our position by focusing on simplification and innovation and excellent customer experience. For our Business clients, a simplified portfolio and a bundle with Belgium unlimited roaming was launched. To improve our business customers’ experience, we introduced cloud services. Our price leadership was extended from tariff plans to devices. Our hardware sales are growing and this in a declining market. As first operator, we could offer the ICE phones to our customers. We also became official Apple dealer, which gave the iPhone sales an extra boost. Our multi-brand strategy offers a full portfolio of mobile services (voice, SMS, data) and content services, such as Spotify. BASE is our mainstream retail brand offering both prepaid and postpaid Overview highlights, KPIs & other targets products. BASE business delivers products for the SoHo and SME market. Next to Mobile, we challenged the fixed market in Belgium Highlights with the introduction of SNOW in 2013. On December 17, 2014, ýý Realized >80% 4G coverage BASE Company announced that its fixed offering SNOW will be ýý Simplified portfolio discontinued at the end of Q2 2015, as it is no longer considered ýý First operator in Belgium to launch a European postpaid to be economically viable to continue the offering. offer to call and surf at the same price throughout Europe as in Belgium Leading in customer experience Customer experience remains the main focus throughout our company. We have an internal program that is engaging all Revenue EBITDA employees to focus on how they can add that extra to our customers. There is no significant difference between the € 711m (2013: € 728m) € 149m (2013: € 192m) NPS of BASE (the smallest operator in Belgium) and the largest operator, however their scores are significantly higher than all other operators. At BASE Company, we focus on making the life of customers easier. We launched the My BASE app where customers can view their 65k ~21% credit/data usage, top up call credit, pay and view invoices. We expanded our Online Customer Zone to make sure our customers’ questions via Facebook and Twitter are answered as soon as Postpaid net adds Market share possible. Our email backlogs have disappeared by implementing an email handling tool and web integrated Social Media and chat (2013: 127k) (2013: ~20%) as extra support channels within our service organization. 64 KPN — Integrated Annual Report 2014 In 2014, we have organized call center visits for all departments and Financial and operational review different initiatives to improve the customer experience have been launched. We convinced even more customers to use e-invoice. Adjusted revenues and other income decreased by EUR 19 million A new campaign management tool has been implemented in 2014 in 2014. Underlying mobile service revenues decreased by EUR 29 which allows us to detect customer needs. Our CX score for 2014 million. Postpaid ARPU (EUR 31) was lower compared with last year was 73.8 (2013: 75.8). In order to increase our CX score in 2015, (2013: EUR 34), as continued tariff optimization by customers was we changed the structure of the organization to allow for more only partly offset by strong data revenue growth. end-to-end customer focus by joining our commercial & customer experts and our CX experts. In 2014, BASE Company showed postpaid net adds of 65 thousand (2013: 127 thousand). Prepaid net adds were -193 thousand in We will measure NPS scores and satisfaction levels per customer 2014 (2013: -162 thousand). Market share of BASE Company touch point as from 2015 to give us better insights into the slightly increased. performance and satisfaction levels per touch point, and to enable us to continue to improve where needed. Adjusted EBITDA decreased by EUR 30 million, due to lower adjusted revenues and higher traffic costs as a result of flat-fee propositions. Leading in network We were the second operator in Belgium to offer 4G for all Key financials (in millions of EUR, unless indicated otherwise) 2014 2013 flux % customers as of February 2014. BASE Company reached coverage Service revenue 610 639 -4.6% of >80% of the Belgian outdoor population at the end of 2014. Revenue and other income 711 728 -2.3% We also increased the bandwidth from 10 to 15MHz allowing Adjusted revenue and other income 709 728 -2.6% maximum theoretical speeds of 129Mbps for downlink and EBITDA 149 192 -22% 43Mbps for uplink in most areas. Maximum speeds may not Adjusted EBITDA 156 186 -16% be available in certain big cities. Adjusted EBITDA margin 22.0% 25.5% Our leading position in voice quality. We are at par with the market Operational performance indicators (in leader for data quality for 3G technology. However, we are behind thousands unless indicated otherwise) 2014 2013 flux % the competition in terms of 3G/4G deep indoor coverage (mainly Market share (in%)1 ~21% ~20% n.m. in the big and medium cities) and 4G data speed. The independent Wireless customers 3,261 3,389 -3.8% bureau NetCheck measured the quality of the Belgian mobile Net adds postpaid 65 127 -49% networks in the second half of 2014. They carried out 7.5 thousand Net adds prepaid -193 -162 -19% test calls on 12 thousand km of national roads, highways and in Blended ARPU (in EUR) 15 16 -6.3% urban areas. This revealed that BASE has the best Call Success Rate (98.05%). This measures whether the customer has coverage, can 1) Based on service revenues. set up the call, had good speech quality and the call did not drop. NetCheck also conducted similar research measuring the Session Success Rate for data. They measured whether how a device can open a webpage without any cut-off. In free-mode, we were again at par with number one (99.50%). Low-cost organization We are able to achieve this combination of a high-quality network and attractive offerings by running an efficient and low-cost operating model. We keep focusing on continuous improvements and simplification efforts to reduce costs. As an example, as of January 2015, BASE Company integrated the ALLO telecom shops and placed them under the BASE flag. With this integration, BASE Company is better equipped than ever to address the changing market circumstances and customer needs. For the customer, this means greater clarity: one brand, one shop story, one unique customer experience. KPN — Integrated Annual Report 2014 65 REPORT BY THE BOARD OF MANAGEMENT — SEGMENT PERFORMANCE Our strategy in action KPN provides wholesale network services to third parties and operates an IP-based infrastructure for international wholesale customers through iBasis. Our strategy is to enable carrier and mobile operator customers to deliver high-quality international voice and data services to their end users and introduce innovative products faster, with global reach and reliability. We leverage our global IP infrastructure and expertise, sophisticated back-office systems, and substantial scale to achieve sustainable leadership in international wholesale voice services and to be a successful challenger in the Mobile Value Added Services market. In 2014, we continued to establish iBasis as a significant provider iBasis of LTE roaming and signaling solutions and to develop our innovative value-added services offerings for mobile network operators. For 2015 and beyond, we will remain focused on innovating and developing new services to establish new, profitable revenue streams. As mobile operators expand beyond their domestic deployments to offer international VoLTE calling, they face significant challenges as they strive to provide a seamless, high-quality experience for their subscribers and to fully realize the economic value of the new technology. The iBasis solution supports both local breakout and home routing and helps operators overcome challenges such as Overview highlights, KPIs & other targets global reach for VoLTE calls, signaling and media interworking between VoLTE and non-VoLTE networks, supporting VoLTE Highlights global roaming and exploiting HD voice capabilities. ýý Increased average revenue per minute to 4.1 (EUR cents) ýý Established global footprint in LTE services With a single connection to the iBasis multiservice IPX, operators ýý First worldwide to successfully execute International gain access to hundreds of destination countries around the VoLTE roaming world and to the full portfolio of iBasis voice and data capabilities. ýý Simplified organization in line with market developments iBasis also provides a robust VoLTE test environment with interconnection and test locations around the world to help operators ensure that they are ready for commercial launch. Revenue EBITDA Products and services € 948m (2013: € 969m) € 23m (2013: € 29m) We offer a voice product portfolio consisting of Certified Voice, Premium Voice and HD Voice. These products offer a progression of code coverage, pricing and features formulated to meet the varied requirements of fixed carriers, mobile operators and consumer voice over broadband carriers. 4.1ct Average revenue per minute 23.3bn Number of minutes In addition to our voice services, we offer a comprehensive portfolio of value-added mobile data services and solutions, including our LTE Signaling eXchange, global signaling, mobile messaging and roaming. Our services aim to enhance mobile (2013: 3.9ct) (2013: 24.9bn) operators’ average revenue per user and customer loyalty. 66 KPN — Integrated Annual Report 2014 Financial and operational review Adjusted revenue and other income decreased by EUR 21 million. Total minutes international decreased by 6.4% in 2014, reaching 23,3 billion minutes by the end of 2014 at a slightly increased revenue per minute. Adjusted EBITDA decreased by EUR 6 million, with the decrease in revenues and other income partly compensated by lower cost levels. iBasis continued to expand the global reach of its LTE roaming service via peering partners and direct interconnections with mobile operators. Key financials (in millions of EUR, unless indicated otherwise) 2014 2013 flux % Revenue and other income 948 969 -2.2% Adjusted revenue and other income 948 969 -2.2% EBITDA 23 29 -21% Adjusted EBITDA 23 29 -21% EBITDA margin 2.4% 3.0% Adjusted EBITDA margin 2.4% 3.0% Operational performance indicators 2014 2013 flux % Minutes international (in billions) 23.3 24.9 -6.5% Average revenue per minute (EUR cents) 4.1 3.9 4.4% KPN — Integrated Annual Report 2014 67 REPORT BY THE BOARD OF MANAGEMENT — RISK MANAGEMENT AND COMPLIANCE Risk appetite KPN has set itself clear strategic objectives as explained in the strategy section of this report. Pursuing any business objective inevitably leads to taking risks. Risks can jeopardize those objectives in various ways. Each type of risk encountered is being dealt with in a manner and with the intensity that matches the nature and size of the risk in relation to the risk appetite of the KPN Board of Management. The risk appetite is the total residual impact of risks that KPN is willing to accept in the pursuit of its (strategic) objectives. The risk appetite per strategic objective or risk area is determined annually by the Board of Management. These risk areas comprise themes such as financial, strategic, compliance and (information) security themes. Risk Management Effective risk management is a key success factor for realizing the strategic objectives. Risk areas with a low risk appetite and thus a and Compliance low acceptable residual risk require strong risk management. Risk areas with a high-risk appetite need less risk management effort. Principal risks We face a variety of risks as a result of our business activities, the most significant of which are: ýý Intensified competition, including competition from new disruptive technologies or new business models of competitors ýý Reputation risks due to operational and quality related incidents ýý Threats to the confidentiality, integrity, or availability of KPN’s networks, systems, or data caused by cyberattacks or lack of appropriate security controls and infrastructure measures Risk Management and Control System at KPN These risks and mitigating measures are described on pages 72-75. Risk Management and Control System Board of Management oversight Risks are managed via a framework of principles, organizational structures and measurement and monitoring processes that are closely aligned with our activities. The framework satisfies the Strategic risk Assessment relevant criteria as set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring • Market developments Organizations of the Treadway Commission (based on the • Intensified competition Integrated Internal Control Framework). Key components are • Mergers and Acquisitions discussed in more detail below. KPN’s Risk Management and • Macro-economic conditions Control System is designed to avoid or mitigate rather than • Reputation risks to eliminate the risks associated with the realization of KPN’s • Investments in licenses strategic objectives. It provides reasonable but not absolute • Disruptive technologies assurance against material misstatement or loss. The Risk • Other strategic risks Management and Control System is managed by the General Counsel Office; the Group Compliance and Risk Officer reports directly to the CEO of KPN. Operational and Financial risk Management • Reliable financial reporting • Compliance risks • Security and Continuity risks • Operational risks • Financial risks • Other risks Integrity, culture and awareness 68 KPN — Integrated Annual Report 2014 Integrity, culture and awareness Strategic Risk assessments KPN has several actions ongoing to support integrity and In order to fulfill KPN’s strategy, the Board of Management and the awareness within the organization. This is done via coaching management of the various segments discuss and define ambitions sessions and dilemma workshops during team meetings, and and objectives. These ambitions and objectives are detailed in a other specific trainings. KPN strives for a business culture in strategic business plan that covers a five-year period. This is the which compliance and integrity is self-evident for all employees. basis for operational plans per segment. During monthly reviews, Four major initiatives are ‘tone at the top’, code of conduct, management of each segment discusses segment performance with whistleblower procedure and the Business Control Framework. the Board of Management. Progress over time and performance compared with the business plan are also discussed. The business Tone at the top risk management approach of KPN is integrated in the Planning The attitude and behavior of KPN’s top management serves as an and Control cycle. This implies that, every quarter, segments example for all KPN employees. Our Board members and senior perform a ‘most likely’ forecast four to six quarters ahead on management frequently communicate the importance of a strong their main financials and key performance indicators (the Rolling risk culture to support a consistent tone from the top. To further Forecast). Combined with the Rolling Forecast, segments identify strengthen this message, training sessions were held about our the main risks and opportunities, so a bandwidth around expected desired company culture and behavior. performance can be determined. These risks, and when necessary mitigating measures, and opportunities are discussed during Our employees in the Sales and Marketing, Customer Contact the business reviews with the Board of Management. Centers and Retail departments were trained in classroom workshops to improve their awareness on competition law, Operational and Financial Risk Management integrity and our business principles. Operational and Financial Risk management addresses a wide range of risks, such as compliance risks, reliable financial Code of Conduct reporting risks, security and continuity risks, corporate social KPN is conscious of its social and ethical responsibilities and responsibility risks, financial risks, tax risks and other risks. wishes to ensure that work practices across the company are compliant with the law and regulations and consistent with Reliable Financial Reporting and Compliance (GRIP) social and ethical norms. For this reason, KPN has a Code of KPN has an integrated risk management approach and control Conduct, which sets out the key values: personal, trust and framework called ‘GRIP’ (Governance and compliance, Risk simplicity. KPN can be held accountable for its performance management, Internal control and Processes) that includes: by all of its stakeholders (customers, shareholders, employees, ýý Internal control over financial reporting business associates, competitors, environmental organizations, ýý Compliance Risk Assessment Framework international business relations and the community in the broadest sense). The Code of Conduct is available on the KPN ‘Internal control over financial reporting’ ensures with a reasonable website (www.kpn.com). KPN continuously updates its Code of level of assurance that material misstatements in KPN’s annual Conduct and the underlying compliance policies, based on new accounts are prevented or detected in a timely manner. Each and changed laws and regulation and communicates these via quarter, Risk Management and Internal Audit assess the overall classroom training and e-learning. Using an e-learning module effectiveness of the GRIP framework before publication of the named ‘Get the Code’, over 16,500 employees were trained quarterly figures. The internal evaluation conclusions were in line and they successfully passed the ‘Get the Code’ exam. This is with the observations discussed in the Board Report of the external an annual requirement for all employees in the Netherlands. auditors as part of their audit of the 2014 Financial Statements. Whistleblower ‘Compliance Risk Assessment framework’ (CRA) comprises an The Speak-Up line empowers all employees and external integrated framework which oversees risks related to compliance parties to (anonymously) report misconduct of KPN employees. with the Dutch Telecommunications Act, competition laws and The Speak-Up line is personally promoted by the CEO of KPN. privacy regulations. For these risks, relevant processes and controls People are encouraged to speak up if they observe (suspected) have been implemented and are continuously monitored. For risks misconduct. The number of reported issues increased in 2014 related to significant market power (Aanmerkelijke Markt Macht), compared with previous years to 45 (2013: 28 and 2012: 5). the compliance controls are tested and assessed for effectiveness by dedicated staff all year round. Also each quarter, a compliance Business Control Framework report with a broader scope is drafted, monitoring the timeliness The Business Control Framework (BCF) contains all corporate of implementation of new laws and regulations as well as the policies and guidelines that are mandatory for KPN segments and quality of incident reporting and compliance training. These entities. The BCF policies support the control and governance of reports are reviewed by Internal Audit and discussed with the the KPN Group, not only for reliable financial reporting, but also Board of Management, segment management and the ACM for compliance with laws and regulations and the realization of (Autoriteit Consument & Markt). KPN’s objectives. KPN — Integrated Annual Report 2014 69 REPORT BY THE BOARD OF MANAGEMENT — RISK MANAGEMENT AND COMPLIANCE The controls within GRIP are tested and assessed for effectiveness Penalties by dedicated staff year-round. The CFO of KPN reviews compliance In 2014, KPN was subject to ten penalty cases. These penalties of the segments with the requirements of the GRIP framework and amounted to approximately EUR 39 million and include both discusses emerging issues and their timely resolution. KPN is revocable and irrevocable penalty-cases and fines that are paid continuously improving the effectiveness and efficiency of the or pending. Fines for which we successfully appealed are excluded internal control frameworks. In 2014, KPN further enhanced the from the total. Out of this EUR 39 million, EUR 33 million relates GRIP approach with more focus on ‘understanding the business’ to a fine by ACM relating to the breach of the non-discrimination and more focus on key risks and effective monitoring controls. obligation and the obligation for transparency in the Business market where KPN was fined for informing its own business Each quarter, management of the segments provides the customers about promotions before informing wholesale customers. Board of Management with an assurance letter (Document of The penalty is irrevocable and was paid in 2014. All penalties were Representation) regarding amongst other the reliability of their for breaches of the law relating to telecommunication. Furthermore, financial reporting and compliance with telecommunication laws KPN was involved in 22 court cases in connection either with its and internal policies. designation as a party with significant market power in a particular market, or with the obligations imposed as a consequence and Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) compliance therewith. Our focus on coping with major societal challenges is not free of obligations. If we were to fail to address these concerns, KPN could In 2014, the Dutch Advertising Code Committee gave a ruling face serious risks. We consider energy scarcity, attracting and (partially on appeal) on eight advertising statements by KPN. retention of talented employees and protecting privacy and In five cases, the Committee ruled that the statement in question security to be the most important CSR-related risks for KPN today. was wholly or partially in breach of the Dutch Advertising Code. By implementing our energy strategy, we contribute to a better environment and reduce our dependency on fossil fuel and reduce Internal Audit function our vulnerability to increasing energy prices as a result of scarcity. Internal Audit (KPN Audit) provides assurance to both the Board With our ongoing efforts in employee engagement, KPN is of Management and the Audit Committee concerning the ‘In trying to reduce the risk of loss of commitment of employees. Control’ status of KPN’s segments and processes. The Chief Auditor Finally, while society rapidly becomes dependent on a vital ICT reports to the CEO and has unrestricted access to the Board of infrastructure, security threats increase simultaneously. We Management and the Audit Committee. KPN Audit conducts its mitigate this risk by an extensive privacy and security program activities in a risk-based manner and in close cooperation with the in order to safeguard customers’ confidential information. external auditor, based on a continuous evaluation of perceived business risks. Auditors have unrestricted access to all documents Financial Risk Management and records, properties and staff. KPN Audit plays an important KPN’s Corporate Treasury department manages several important role in assessing the quality and effectiveness of KPN’s Internal financial risks. The main identified financial risks are related to Risk Management and Control System. The Internal Audit function KPN’s (large) cash positions, finance agreements, currency and conducts systematic and ad hoc financial, IT and operational interest exposures, and non-life insurance. These financial risks audits and special investigations. Furthermore, KPN Audit are managed by KPN’s Treasury department under policies conducts periodic reviews on the quality of GRIP. Audit findings approved by the Board of Management, which include clear are discussed with responsible management, including directly boundaries for currency risks, interest rate risks, counterparty responsible Board members, and every quarter the main findings risks and liquidity risks. Compliance with these policies is are reported and discussed with the Board of Management and monitored frequently, including compliance in past periods the Audit Committee. and expected compliance in future periods. Disclosure Committee For more information regarding Financial Risk Management at The Disclosure Committee (DC) examines all reports intended for KPN, refer to Note 30 of the Consolidated Financial Statements. external publication (disclosure) containing financial information to ensure that they are accurate, complete, timely and fairly Tax risks present KPN’s financial position and results in all material aspects. Tax risks are monitored by the Corporate Fiscal Affairs department. The DC reviews the disclosure controls and procedures. Based on Dutch tax risks are managed and governed based on a covenant its findings, the DC advises the Board of Management and the ‘Horizontaal Toezicht’ between KPN and the Dutch tax authorities Audit Committee. As in 2013, in 2014 the DC consisted of (at least) with mutual responsibilities. KPN is committed to address tax the directors of Corporate Control (Chair), Corporate Treasury, issues at an early stage and comply with relevant tax laws. The tax Corporate Fiscal Affairs, Corporate Legal, Internal Audit, Investor authorities are committed to give rapid clarification on tax issues Relations, Corporate Communication, the finance directors of the identified by KPN. externally reported segments and the Secretary to the Board of Management. The DC met periodically in 2014. 70 KPN — Integrated Annual Report 2014 In Control Statement and Responsibility Statement The Board of Management is responsible for KPN’s Internal Risk Management and Control System. This system is designed to manage the risks that may prevent KPN from achieving its objectives. However, this system cannot provide absolute assurance that material misstatements, fraud and violations of laws and regulations can be avoided. The Board of Management reviewed and analyzed: ýý The strategic, operational, financial, financial reporting and regulatory and compliance risks, as discussed in the paragraph ‘Principal risks’; and ýý The design and operating effectiveness of the Internal Risk Management and Control system, as discussed in the paragraph ‘Internal Risk Management and Control System’ of this Annual Report. The outcome of this review and analysis was shared with the Audit Committee and Supervisory Board and discussed with KPN’s external auditors. With reference to best practice provision II.1.5 of the Dutch Corporate Governance Code, the Board of Management, to the best of its knowledge, believes that the Internal Risk Management and Control System, with regard to financial reporting, worked properly in 2014 and that the Internal Risk Management and Control System provides a reasonable assurance that the financial reporting does not contain any errors of material importance. With reference to section 5.25c paragraph 2c of the Financial Markets Supervision Act, the Board of Management states that, to the best of its knowledge: ýý The Annual Financial Statements of 2014 give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of KPN and its consolidated companies; and ýý The Annual Report gives a true and fair view of the position as at December 31, 2014, the development during 2014 of KPN and its Group companies included in the annual financial statements, together with a description of the principal risks KPN faces. The Hague, February 25, 2015 E. Blok Chairman of the Board of Management and Chief Executive Officer J.C. de Jager Member of the Board of Management and Chief Financial Officer J.F.E. Farwerck Member of the Board of Management and Chief Operations Officer KPN — Integrated Annual Report 2014 71 REPORT BY THE BOARD OF MANAGEMENT — RISK MANAGEMENT AND COMPLIANCE Risks and countermeasures KPN Group Category Risk Countermeasure 1. Intensified competition, including competition from new disruptive technologies or new business models of competitors Intensified KPN could face increased competition from current ýý Maintain balance between profitability and incentives competition as well as new market entrants and OTT players in to customers markets or by market consolidation. Competition ýý Innovative products and services to meet changing can occur based on price, increase of investment in customer needs customer acquisition and retention costs by ýý Roll-out of LTE and continuous identification of competitors, subscription options, coverage and enhancements on the network to ensure KPN service quality. These factors could lead to lower remains competitive profitability as well as lower market shares. ýý Improving NPS ýý Offer bundled services (triple-play, quad-play) and competitive price/portfolio combinations ýý Invest in quality of service and execution power ýý Multi-brand strategy ýý Further improve marketing and sales effectiveness ýý Strengthen distribution power with business partners, online channels and shops ýý Strategic partnerships and cooperation with OTT players ýý Intensified investments in business market portfolio (e.g. cloud services, M2M, hosting and security) ýý Further focus on unique selling propositions such as high quality infrastructure and services, national network coverage and reliable security ýý Increased focus on SME / SoHo propositions. Disruptive KPN’s business model and financial performance ýý Develop new business models and new pricing models technologies or could be affected by (disruptive) technologies and ýý Closely monitor market developments and trends in business models new players. KPN’s response to new technologies customer demands and failure to and market developments and its ability to ýý Build lean and mean and flexible business organization introduce new introduce new competitive products or services ýý Develop strategic partnerships with OTT players products and in the market are essential to KPN’s performance ýý Maintain multi-brand strategy with differentiated services and profitability in the long run. propositions and develop fallback scenarios. The introduction of new products and services such as new propositions may not be successful and/or timely. This could result in loss of market share and reduced profitability. 2. Reputation risks due to operational and quality related incidents Reputation risk due KPN’s technical infrastructure and IT may be ýý Monitor performance of technical infrastructure (e.g. to operational and vulnerable to damage or service interruptions, performance, traffic growth and utilization rate) and IT quality related operational issues and quality related incidents. ýý Benchmark quality of the technical infrastructure and incidents These incidents may include failures in the technical maintain investment levels Strengthen the IT and infrastructure or IT (e.g. theft/loss of customer data, continue implementation of new KPN Security Policy failure of power supply, low coverage or insufficient ýý Strengthen strategic programs to simplify and rationalize customer service). Such incidents would have a of IT/TI management negative impact on KPN’s reputation, customer ýý Back-up and recovery plans in case of emergencies satisfaction and KPN’s results. ýý For business continuity in the Netherlands: internal continuity and disaster recovery programs including governance and training ýý For the Netherlands: Regional roaming in which a part of mobile voice traffic can be transferred to other operators in the event of calamities. Simplification and quality: KPN may make ýý Execution of quality improvement programs such as ‘First insufficient progress in realizing necessary Time Right’ and ‘Quality Circle’ quality improvements (NPS, First Time Right) ýý Focus on drivers to improve Net Promoter Score (NPS) and time-to-market of new products and services ýý Centralization of innovation and govern innovations and may be too long, which could lead to lower simplification at executive level. customer satisfaction/NPS and lower motivation of employees. 72 KPN — Integrated Annual Report 2014 Category Risk Countermeasure KPN may fail to meet stakeholder expectations ýý Define and communicate to investors clear objectives relating to energy, emissions and sustainability. This for energy, emissions and sustainability could lead to loss of customers, loss of profitability ýý Continued dialogue with KPN’s main stakeholders in the future and reputational damage. regarding their expectations for energy, emissions and sustainability ýý Carry out KPN’s plan to become climate neutral in 2015. 3. Threats to the confidentiality, integrity, or availability of KPN’s networks, systems, or data Information Threats to the confidentiality, integrity, or ýý Continue implementation of the KPN Security Policy security threats availability of KPN’s networks, systems, or data ýý Continue and strengthen Joint Security Operations caused by cyberattacks or lack of appropriate Center implementation to improve security visibility security controls and infrastructure measures. and risk intelligence ýý Consolidate and maintain quality asset registration and configuration management database which enables rapid response to attacks ýý Continue HR strategy focused on attracting and retaining leading security experts. 4. Other risks Risks relating to Non-compliance with regulation and impact of new ýý Improving and maintaining a robust control regulatory and regulatory decisions: framework dedicated to complying with Telco legislative matters regulation (CRA framework) KPN may face issues in relation to non-compliance ýý Proactive stakeholder and reputation management with regulation. These incidents could have a including dialogue with regulators on predictable negative impact on KPN’s reputation and and pro-competitive (wholesale-based) regulation relationship with regulators and/or supervisors. to minimize interventions in retail markets consistently over time New regulatory decisions in the EU and the ýý Strengthening the effectiveness of the compliance Netherlands could affect KPN’s future operations organization: and profitability. –– Centralized organization for compliance and risk management and maintenance of internal control framework –– Compliance training sessions for staff and management –– E-learning about the Company codes for all staff members of KPN in the Netherlands –– Internal compliance investigations –– Surveys and culture improvement programs ýý Ringfencing wholesale within operations. Tax: Adverse decisions of tax authorities or changes ýý Company-wide tax strategy and tax policy in tax treaties, laws, rules or interpretations could ýý Maintain good working relationships with tax authorities have a material adverse effect on KPN’s results of ýý Maintenance of internal control framework for key tax operations and cash flow. risk areas. Lack of return High investments in fiber, copper or mobile ýý Balance the investments in copper upgrades and on investments infrastructure, including licenses, may not be fiber-to-the-home roll-out recovered. The mobile market is characterized by ýý Continuous monitoring of performance, e.g. utilization increasing competition, accelerating changes in and return on investment per area customer behavior, increasing price pressure and ýý Maintain balance between profitability and growth shrinking markets; also, large-scale investments in ýý Decision-making based on business cases (including infrastructure are required to meet capacity continuous monitoring) demands. For the fixed market, fiber roll-out may ýý Develop strategic partnerships and investigate options not meet expectations and activations may fall for network sharing behind, not reaching the required coverage ratio. ýý Centralization of the management of capital expenditures This could lead to impairments of assets, licenses ýý Less focus on roll out of high capital intensive fiber-toand goodwill. the-home and increased focus on higher penetration. KPN — Integrated Annual Report 2014 73 REPORT BY THE BOARD OF MANAGEMENT — RISK MANAGEMENT AND COMPLIANCE Category Risk Countermeasure Impairment Changes in assumptions such as profitability, ýý Focus on valuation principles and long term profitability, of assets network penetration, long-term growth and especially while conducting M&A related activities discount rate could negatively affect the value of ýý Implement a solid investment policy cash generating units and trigger an impairment. ýý Monitor profitability of the cash generating units and network penetration. The sale of E-Plus resulted in a substantial amount ýý Monitor the final liquidation along with profitability of tax loss carry forwards (see Note 7 to the and long term growth in the Netherlands. Consolidated Financial Statements) and deductible temporary differences for which a deferred tax asset of EUR 1.2 billion in total for the Dutch fiscal unity was recognized. Changes in assumptions such as profitability and long term growth could lead to an impairment of this asset. KPN obtained a 20.5% stake in Telefónica Deutschland ýý Monitor share price of Telefónica Deutschland. as a result of the sale of E-Plus. This stake is reported as an ‘available for sale financial asset’ and measured at fair value which is based on the share price of Telefónica Deutschland on the stock market. The share price is volatile which could lead to an impairment of the 20.5% stake in Telefónica Deutschland which consequently could lead to volatility in KPN’s Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss. Inability to KPN is pursuing a challenger strategy in the ýý Development of KPIs to monitor the progress and success compete effectively Belgian mobile telecommunications market. KPN’s of an enhanced challenger strategy in Belgium competitors are larger established (quad play) ýý Continued network roll-out operators that benefit from considerable financing, ýý Continued focus on the quality of IT marketing and personnel advantages, wide brandýý Mobile broadband network minimally on par with name recognition, perceived network quality and a competition deeply entrenched customer base. BASE Company as ýý Customer differentiators such as price/value leadership a mobile only player may prove unable to compete and enhanced customer experience effectively with these established players, resulting ýý Business model differentiators such as improvement of in a material adverse effect on its business, financial brand positioning and segmentation, regionalization condition and results of its operations. and simplicity, cost leadership initiatives and innovative wholesale and operational partnerships ýý New Mobile Virtual Network Operator (MVNO) contracts ýý Develop strategic partnerships. Adverse macroContinued adverse macro-economic conditions: ýý Innovation: develop new propositions economic this could lead to lower revenue growth and lower ýý Swift response to new market developments and trends conditions profitability, affecting our businesses both in the ýý Cost-cutting initiatives Netherlands and abroad, and may lead to an ýý Simplification program. This will lead to improved impairment of assets. time-to-market, better quality of service and a simplified and agile organization. Additionally, it will lead to a structural lower level of operational costs. Financing KPN and The pressure on KPN’s self-imposed financial ýý Maintaining a strong liquidity position and prefunding volatile financial framework may increase in the event of higher net maturing bond redemptions markets debt levels and/or lower profitability. In that case, ýý Commitment to investment grade credit profile KPN might not be able to maintain its current credit ýý Monitoring and forecasting of metrics used by rating ratings, which could negatively affect pricing and agencies availability of financing resources. ýý Anticipating future changes in methodologies used by rating agencies ýý Maintaining discipline in allocating capital to investment opportunities. Uncertainty in financial markets, which could ýý Maintaining a strong liquidity position negatively affect pricing and availability of KPN’s ýý Smooth redemption profile and upcoming bond funding sources. redemptions financed well ahead ýý Diversification in funding sources ýý Active monitoring of counterparties, including measures to reduce counterparty risk. KPN holds substantial cash balances causing high ýý Manage counterparty risks by spreading excess cash counterparty risks. among a sufficient number of strong counterparties. 74 KPN — Integrated Annual Report 2014 Category Risk Countermeasure Pensions In 2014, the KPN PF, KPN OPF and IT Solutions (NL) ýý Closely monitor the development of the pension funds, SVG plans were all transferred into (collective) including coverage ratios defined contribution plans. However, several ýý Continuously investigate risk mitigation options such defined benefit plans remained for which a liability as transfer of remaining pension obligations to is recognized in KPN’s Consolidated Balance Sheet. insurance companies. This liability is impacted by movements in interest rates, equity values (or ‘value of the plan assets’), inflation rates and mortality. For further information about KPN’s pension schemes, including the funding requirements and a sensitivity analysis, see Note 23 of the Integrated Annual Report 2014. Third party risks Dependence on suppliers and outsourcing/ ýý Establish a strong demand organization that defines, offshoring partners: KPN could depend too heavily enforces and monitors compliance with terms of on its ability to obtain adequate supplies of contracts with suppliers and outsourcing parties telecommunications equipment, related software and prepare re-transition plans as fallback scenario and IT services, and on contractors’ ability to build ýý Implement a well defined outsourcing process (toll gates, and roll out telecommunications networks on risk analyses etc) schedule as well as suppliers’ ability to deliver ýý Reduce number of suppliers and improve supplier dependable technical support. This could lead to an selection criteria inability to deliver the required services at the right ýý Include a right to audit clause in supplier contracts price and quality level. and conduct regular audits ýý Require that suppliers comply with the KPN Security Policy Furthermore, contractual obligations as included ýý Create supplier default scenarios and include in agreements with KPN customers may not be contractual ability to terminate the contracts properly translated into the relevant third party based on non-performance supplier contracts. ýý Align customer contract requirements with supplier contract requirements (this alignment is part of the governance rules for outsourcing). Suppliers of KPN could – in hindsight – breach ýý Communicate KPN’s supplier code of conduct to all suppliers relevant legislation including human rights and/or ýý Request all suppliers to confirm compliance with KPN’s environmental laws, which could have an impact supplier code of conduct on KPN’s reputation. ýý For high-risk suppliers, performance of audit procedures to evaluate suppliers’ compliance with international standards for human rights and environmental laws. Employment KPN may not be able to attract, deploy and ýý Improve talent management and remuneration programs and diversity retain qualified staff members, which could to attract and maintain qualified staff lead to insufficient competency and diversity ýý Communicate with (key) staff about reasons for in KPN’s workforce. restructuring and value their opinions and views ýý Promote technical education initiatives at high schools Restructurings could lead to less motivated and universities to attract new workforce. personnel and/or key personnel leaving the Company (or even joining competitors) and thus loss of knowledge. KPN — Integrated Annual Report 2014 75 REPORT BY THE BOARD OF MANAGEMENT — REGULATORY DEVELOPMENTS On May 15, 2014, a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council entered into force on measures to reduce the cost of deploying high-speed electronic communications networks. The measures should be implemented into national law by July 1, 2016. On October 9, 2014, the European Commission published the Recommendation Relevant Markets 2014, replacing the version of 2007, in which the markets that are in general deemed susceptible for ex ante regulation are limited to four markets (on wholesale fixed and mobile call termination and on fixed wholesale broadband access). The recommendation has no direct deregulatory effect, but it is up to national regulatory authorities to base their three-yearly market analysis decisions on it. Retail and wholesale fixed telephony services are no longer included, but could still be regulated nationally if specific national circumstances would justify ex Regulatory ante regulatory intervention at wholesale level for a subsequent review period, but only if certain criteria are met. developments International roaming on mobile networks The Roaming Regulation 2012 extended the price regulation of the previous regulation and introduced ‘structural measures’ aimed at creating more competitive retail roaming markets as of July 2014. Since the first Roaming Regulation of 2007, the regulated price caps for wholesale as well as retail tariffs have been decreased annually, with a last reduction in July 2014. Since July 2012, MVNOs also can benefit from the regulated wholesale rates. As of July Introduction 2014, retail roaming services must be offered separately from national services and can be obtained from (if active) alternative KPN is subject to monitoring and regulation by regulatory bodies in roaming providers. Furthermore, operators need to facilitate that the jurisdictions in which it operates. Key regulatory developments data roaming services can directly be offered by foreign operators that could potentially impact KPN are: regulation of international in their territories. So far, hardly any alternative roaming offers are roaming, obligations relating to significant market power and the available in the market, potentially also caused by the political licensing regimes for the use of frequencies. The European discussions on amending the roaming regulation. In the Roaming regulation is directly applicable in all member states. discussions on the proposed ‘Connected Continent’ regulation Regulation of operators with significant market power is applied (see above), the European Parliament accepted an amendment that nationally, after a national market analysis, but under coordination would mandate roaming tariffs in the EU to be equal to national by the European Commission. In the Netherlands, this affects KPN tariffs, with a possibility to have restrictions based on ‘fair use’. in some fixed markets; in both the Netherlands and Belgium, KPN Currently, debates on amending the roaming regulation are is regulated on mobile call termination services. Licensing regimes ongoing, and no clarity exists for as yet what fair use restrictions are also of a national nature. would be allowed and what the relevant level of wholesale rates would be to allow a ‘roam-like-at-home’ pricing structure. European developments; towards a telecoms single market? Market analysis decisions (the Netherlands) In the European Union, the debate on the proposal for a Regulation KPN has been designated by the national regulatory authority to stimulate the internal market for electronic communications ACM to have significant market power in some of the national to achieve a Connected Continent, as presented by former EU fixed telecommunications markets. The last implemented decisions Commissioner Kroes on September 11, 2013, has been ongoing. thereto came into force on January 1, 2012 (unbundled access to The European Parliament finalized its first reading on the proposal copper networks and – for at that time still joint venture Reggefiber on April 3, 2014 (including many amendments), but no Council – FttH), May 1, 2012 (wholesale telephony markets) and January 1, position has been agreed in 2014. The ‘trialogue’ negotiations 2013 (high-quality wholesale broadband access and wholesale between the (new) Commission, (new) European Parliament and leased lines). On these markets access obligations, tariff regulation Council, to reach a common position, will only start afterwards. (partly by safety caps based on the 2011 tariff levels) and margin The current discussions mainly focus on the regulation of squeeze tests were imposed. Furthermore, KPN has been designated international roaming and net neutrality and potentially on as having significant market power in the retail telephony markets some changes in the existing spectrum coordination and end user for two and more simultaneous calls, for which markets a margin protection. The other subjects of the initial proposal are unlikely to squeeze test is imposed. All of these decisions have been under be accepted, but may be part of a general review of the European appeal. The Trade and Industry Appeals Court (‘CBb’) has annulled Regulatory Framework that is announced to be undertaken by or amended some of the decisions. The decision by which KPN the new Commission. was designated to have significant market power in the market of unbundled access to KPN FttO networks was annulled, by which this market is unregulated unless ACM published another decision with that effect. The Dutch television markets are not regulated. 76 KPN — Integrated Annual Report 2014 The ACM is conducting its fourth round of market analysis. Spectrum licenses (the Netherlands) In October 31, 2014, ACM published the first draft decision concerning ‘the market for unbundled access’. ACM concludes In the Netherlands, KPN holds licenses in the 800, 900, 1800, 2100 that, after the Ziggo/UPC merger, a risk of joint dominance in and 2600 MHz bands for mobile communications, a license for the fixed broadband/triple-play retail markets exists. To remedy DVB-T (Broadcast) and a number of licenses of minor significance. the risk, KPN is to offer (virtual) unbundled access to its copper The majority of the mobile licenses were granted after an auction and fiber network at wholesale level. The draft decision has in October-December 2012, and have a duration until 2030. The been consulted on a national level and will, after inclusion of 2100 MHz licenses have a duration until January 1, 2017. However, amendments from the national consultation, be notified to the in October 2014, the Minister of Economic Affairs published a draft European Commission. The ACM intends to finalize its decision decision for consultation on the duration of the 2100 MHz licenses, before May 1, 2015. KPN considers the proposed remedies according to which the licenses will be extended upon request of inappropriate given the voluntary offer for wholesale access the licensee for a period of four years. Thereby, the new allocation it presented in May 2014. Furthermore, the proposed remedies do (auction) will be postponed by four years, potentially allowing not allow sufficient flexibility for upgrading KPN’s copper network. simultaneous allocation with the 700 MHz band by that time. The The ACM is expected to prepare draft decisions concerning the extended licenses will be made technology-neutral, allowing use (wholesale) telephony market and the wholesale business for 3G and 4G mobile technology. For the extension, a fee will be networks market later in 2015. applicable, for the calculation of which the results of the 2012 auction are announced to be an input. ACM decided to regulate the fixed and mobile termination rates by September 2013 based on a ‘pure BULRIC’ cost methodology, in Spectrum licenses (Belgium) line with the EU Commission’s Recommendation on the regulatory treatment of fixed and mobile termination rates of May 7, 2009. In Belgium, BASE Company holds licenses for GSM, UMTS and LTE In a pure BULRIC approach, joint and common costs are excluded in the 800, 900, 1800, 2100 and 2600 MHz bands. A renewal of its from partial recovery by termination tariffs. ACM imposed maximum 2G license from July 2013 until July 2018 was decided upon finally tariff levels of 0.108 EURct/min for fixed and of 1.019 EURct/min for in 2013 for a fee of approximately EUR 62 million. The 2x10MHz mobile termination rates. In an injunctive procedure, the CBb judged 800MHz license, acquired in 2013, for a total consideration of on August 27, 2013 that ACM’s decision materially seems no different EUR 120 million, has a duration of 20 years. from the earlier decision of 2010 (also applying the pure BULRIC methodology), which the CBb had annulled in August 2011. As an interim measure, the CBb decided that the tariffs should be set at the ‘plus BULRIC’ level of 0.302 EURct/min (fixed) and 1.861 EURct/min (mobile) during the appeal procedure. On October 15, 2014, the CBb rendered an interim decision in the appeal, in which it announced it would send prejudicial questions to the European Court of Justice on the legal status of the Recommendation. A final decision thereby is postponed until the answers of the European Court of Justice have been received and included in a national judgment. Market analysis decision mobile call termination (Belgium) In Belgium, the national regulatory authority BIPT decided on June 29, 2010 to regulate the mobile termination rates for all operators based on the ‘pure BULRIC’ cost methodology, in line with the EU Commission’s Recommendation of May 2009 (see above), leading to a glide path for tariff reduction, with the last step as of September 1, 2013, at 1.08 EURct/min for all mobile operators. With its judgment of September 24, 2014, the Court of Appeal of Brussels has annulled the BIPT Decision for procedural reasons. The retroactive effects of the annulment are however mitigated for considerations of legal certainty and the Court of Appeal decided that the effects of the BIPT Decision of 2010 will be maintained until June 30, 2015. In February 2013, BIPT started a qualitative and quantitative consultation on the elaboration of a new cost model to be used as a basis for the regulation of MTR during the period 2013-2016. A first draft cost model has been consulted by BIPT in November 2013, but no final decision is available. In its draft work plan for 2015, BIPT has indicated that it would not be ready by June 20, 2015 with a new MTR decision, but rather by the end of 2015, therefore BIPT intends to adopt a refection decision in Q1 2015 in order to extend the applicability of the existing MTR decision beyond June 30, 2015. KPN — Integrated Annual Report 2014 77 REPORT BY THE BOARD OF MANAGEMENT — GOVERNANCE Shareholders Share capital Following the resolution of the Extraordinary General Meeting of Shareholders on January 10, 2014, the KPN authorized capital stock totals EUR 720 million, divided into 9 billion ordinary shares of EUR 0.04 each and 9 billion preference shares B of EUR 0.04 each. As of December 31, 2014, a total of 4,270,254,664 ordinary shares were outstanding. Dutch law prohibits KPN from casting a vote on shares it holds. The ordinary shares and the preference shares B carry the right to cast one vote each. For a description of the preference shares, please see ‘The Foundation Preference Shares B KPN’. The ordinary shares are registered or payable to bearer. Shareholders may Corporate request the Company to convert their registered shares to bearer shares but not vice versa. Governance Listings and indices Since June 13, 1994, KPN’s ordinary shares have been listed on Euronext Amsterdam (ticker: KPN). KPN has a Level I ADR program which allows investors to trade KPN ADRs in the United States on the Over-The-Counter market (ticker symbol: KKPNY). KPN shares are included among others in the following leading indices: AEX, EURO STOXX Telecommunications Index, and STOXX Europe 600 Telecommunications Index. T  he corporate governance framework of KPN is based on the requirements of the Dutch Civil Code, the Dutch Corporate The General Meeting of Shareholders Governance Code as well as applicable securities laws. The General Meeting of Shareholders has the authority to appoint Furthermore, the company is governed by its Articles of members of the Supervisory Board upon binding nomination by Association and internal procedures, such as the by-laws the Supervisory Board and to dismiss the Supervisory Board. The of the Board of Management and the Supervisory Board. General Meeting of Shareholders is also entitled to approve the remuneration policy and share (option) plans for the Board of Legal structure of the Company Management. Furthermore, a number of decisions are subject to the approval of the General Meeting of Shareholders, including Royal KPN N.V. is a public limited liability company established decisions on company-transforming transactions, adoption of under the laws of the Netherlands, with ordinary shares listed annual accounts and dividend proposals and various corporate on NYSE Euronext Amsterdam. The Articles of Association of matters such as proposals to amend the Articles of Association KPN were last amended on March 21, 2014. of the company, to (de)merge or to dissolve the company or to issue shares or reduce the issued capital of the company. KPN has a two-tier management structure with a Board of Management and a Supervisory Board. KPN qualifies as a ‘large Within six months of the end of a fiscal year, an Annual General company’ (structuurvennootschap) within the meaning of the Dutch Meeting of Shareholders is held, where the discussion of the Civil Code and applies the relevant rules of Dutch corporate law. Annual Report and approval of the Financial Statements are put The corporate governance system of KPN includes the General on the agenda. Other General Meetings of Shareholders are held Meeting of Shareholders, the Board of Management and the as often as the Supervisory Board or Board of Management deem Supervisory Board. The Board of Management is entrusted necessary. The Board of Management and the Supervisory Board with the management of the Company. The Supervisory Board determine the agenda of the Annual General Meeting of oversees strategic and commercial policymaking by the Board of Shareholders. Shareholders who individually or collectively Management and the way in which it manages and directs KPN’s represent at least 1% of the issued capital or who, according to operations and affiliated/associated companies. In the performance the Official Price List of NYSE Euronext Amsterdam, represent at of their duties, the members of the Board of Management and the least a value of EUR 50 million have the right to propose items for Supervisory Board are guided by the interest of the Company and the agenda. Every shareholder has the right to attend a General the enterprise connected therewith. The Board of Management is Meeting of Shareholders in person or through written proxy, accountable to the General Meeting of Shareholders in accordance to address the meeting and to exercise voting rights. with Dutch legislation. Please see the section ‘Composition of the Boards’ starting on page 82, for information on the composition of the Board of Management and the Supervisory Board. 78 KPN — Integrated Annual Report 2014 Adoption of Financial Statements and discharge At the proposal of the Board of Management, with approval of the of responsibility Supervisory Board, the General Meeting of Shareholders resolved Within four months from the end of every fiscal year, the Board to reduce the issued capital through cancellation of own shares of Management prepares Financial Statements accompanied by held by the company in accordance with the Articles of Association, an Annual Report. The Financial Statements are submitted to the with the aim to further optimize the equity structure of the Supervisory Board for approval. The Supervisory Board submits company. The number of shares to be canceled following this the approved Financial Statements to the Annual General Meeting resolution will be determined by the Board of Management and of Shareholders for adoption together with the Annual Report for shall be limited by the maximum of 10% of issued capital as per discussion. At the same time, the Board of Management submits April 9, 2014. The General Meeting of Shareholders has designated the approved Financial Statements to the Central Works Council the Board of Management as the body authorized to issue ordinary for information purposes. Adoption of the Financial Statements shares and to grant rights to subscribe for ordinary shares and to does not automatically discharge the Board of Management or restrict and to exclude statutory pre-emptive rights of existing the Supervisory Board from liability. This requires a separate shareholders upon the issuance of ordinary shares or the granting resolution by the General Meeting of Shareholders. of rights to subscribe for ordinary shares (for a period of 18 months, until 9 October 2015), with the aim to ensure continuing Obligations to disclose holdings financial flexibility of the company. This authority shall be limited Pursuant to the Dutch Financial Supervision Act (‘Wet op het to a maximum of 10% of the issued capital as per April 9, 2014, plus financieel toezicht’ or ‘Wft’), legal entities as well as natural 10% of the capital if the issuance or the granting of rights occurs persons must immediately notify the Dutch Authority for Financial within the context of a merger or an acquisition. Resolutions by the Markets (‘AFM’) when a shareholding equals or exceeds 3% of the Board of Management to issue ordinary shares, to grant rights to issued capital. The AFM must be notified again when this subscribe for ordinary shares or to restrict or exclude pre-emptive shareholding subsequently reaches, exceeds or falls below a rights are subject to the approval of the Supervisory Board. threshold. This can be caused by the acquisition or disposal of shares by the shareholder or because the issued capital of the Change in nominal value issuing institution is increased or decreased. Thresholds are: 3%, On January 10, 2014, KPN’s Extraordinary General Meeting of 5%, 10%, 15%, 20%, 25%, 30%, 40%, 50%, 60%, 75% and 95%. A Shareholders granted the requested approvals to amend the natural or legal person holding a net short position in the issued Articles of Association to decrease the nominal value of all shares capital of a company is to notify the AFM on each occasion that from EUR 0.24 to EUR 0.04. The amount of the capital reduction the position reaches the threshold of 0.5% of the issued capital of was added to the share premium reserve of KPN. With the decrease the company concerned and on each occasion that it reaches 0.1% of the nominal value, the authorized capital was amended as well, above this level. The AFM incorporates these notifications in the so as to keep the ratio between issued capital and authorized public register, which is available on its website. Failure to disclose capital within the statutory requirements. the shareholding or short position qualifies as an offense, and may result in civil penalties, including suspension of voting rights and Supervisory Board administrative penalties. See page 26 for the KPN shareholding as at December 31, 2014. The Supervisory Board oversees strategic and commercial policymaking by the Board of Management and the way in which Purchase of shares in the Company’s own capital and issue it manages and directs KPN’s operations and affiliated/associated of new shares companies. Members of the Supervisory Board are appointed The General Meeting of Shareholders authorized the Board of by the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders upon binding Management (for a period of 18 months until October 9, 2015) nomination by the Supervisory Board. The Central Works Council to purchase shares in the company’s own capital with the aim has an enhanced right to recommend persons for nomination up to support KPN’s management and employee incentive plans and, to one-third of the Supervisory Board. The Supervisory Board must in accordance with the Articles of Association of the company, nominate the recommended persons unless it is of the opinion at a price per share of at least EUR 0.01 and at most the highest of that any such person would be unsuitable to fulfill the duties of (i) the Quoted Share Price plus 10% and (ii), if purchases are made a Supervisory Board member, or such appointment would cause on the basis of a program entered into with a single counterparty the Supervisory Board to be improperly constituted. or using a financial intermediary, the average of the Volume Weighted Average Share Price during the effective course of According to the Articles of Association, the Supervisory Board the program. The Quoted Share Price is defined as the average must consist of at least five and not more than nine members. of the closing prices of KPN shares as reported in the official price Members of the Supervisory Board resign according to a schedule list of Euronext Amsterdam over the five trading days prior to set by the Supervisory Board. A member steps down at the first the acquisition date. The Volume Weighted Average Share Price Annual General Meeting of Shareholders following his four-year is defined as the volume weighted average price of trades in KPN term in office. In line with the Dutch Corporate Governance Code, shares on Euronext Amsterdam between 9am (CET) and 5.30pm members can be reappointed twice, leading to a maximum term (CET) adjusted for block, cross and auction trades. in office of 12 years. KPN — Integrated Annual Report 2014 79 REPORT BY THE BOARD OF MANAGEMENT — GOVERNANCE Corporate Governance The Supervisory Board has determined its ‘profile’, defining the In order to obtain sufficient outside reflection, since 2011 an basic principles for the composition of the Supervisory Board. Advisory Board consisting of external experts discusses twice a All nominees for election to the Supervisory Board must fit within year CSR issues and communications with the Steering Committee this profile. According to this profile, the Supervisory Board must ‘KPN in Society’. be composed in such a way that members of the Supervisory Board are able to operate independently of each other and of the Auditor Board of Management. The profile was last amended on April 22, 2013 to comply with diversity principles of Dutch law. The profile The external auditor is responsible for the audit of the financial is available on KPN’s website. statements. The external auditor reports to the Board of Management, the Audit Committee and the Supervisory Board to The by-laws of the Supervisory Board contain, among other things, discuss findings pertaining to their review or audit of the quarterly rules regarding the members’ duties, powers, working methods and annual financial results. The external auditor attends the and decision-making, what decisions by the Board of Management Annual General Meeting of Shareholders to answer questions it must approve, training and conflict handling. The by-laws are pertaining to the auditor’s report as included in the Annual Report. available on KPN’s website. The Audit Committee approves every engagement of the external auditor, after pre-approval by the internal auditor in order to avoid Committees of the Supervisory Board potential breaches of the external auditor’s independence. Both the Four committees assist the Supervisory Board: the Audit Committee, external and internal auditor attend (parts of) the Audit Committee the Remuneration Committee, the Nominating and Corporate meetings. The Annual General Meeting of Shareholders appoints Governance Committee and the Strategy and Organization the external auditor on a yearly basis, upon recommendation by Committee. These committees assist the Supervisory Board in its the Board of Management and the Supervisory Board. decision-taking and report their findings to the Supervisory Board. The tasks of these committees are laid down in charters, which are Compliance with the Dutch Corporate available on KPN’s website. Further information on the activities Governance Code of the committees in 2014 can be found in the section ‘Composition of the Boards’ starting on page 82. As a Dutch listed company, KPN applies the Dutch Corporate Governance Code. Management The current Dutch Corporate Governance Code entered into force The Board of Management, supervised and advised by the on January 1, 2009. KPN fully endorses the underlying principles Supervisory Board, manages KPN’s strategic, commercial, financial of the Dutch Corporate Governance Code which is reflected in a and organizational matters and appoints senior managers. The policy that complies with all best practice provisions thereof, Supervisory Board appoints and discharges members of the Board with the exception of only the following provision: of Management and establishes their individual remuneration within the boundaries of the remuneration policies approved by Best practice III.2.1: “All supervisory board members, with the the General Meeting of Shareholders and the recommendations exception of not more than one person, shall be independent by the Remuneration Committee. within the meaning of best practice provision III.2.2.” On April 10, 2013, Mr. García Moreno Elizondo and Mr. Von Hauske Solis were Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) governance appointed as members of the Supervisory Board. Both are officers CSR is embedded in accordance with the hierarchical structure of KPN’s major shareholder, América Móvil, and are therefore within KPN. Our CEO carries final responsibility. Every CSR theme is not independent within the meaning of the Dutch Corporate assigned to a member of the senior management who is responsible Governance Code. Mr. García Moreno Elizondo and Mr. Von Hauske for stakeholder dialogue, targets, progress and results. Operational Solis were appointed pursuant to the relationship agreement activities are delegated to a theme-owner, who reports back to the entered into by KPN and América Móvil on February 20, 2013 in responsible member of the senior management. Every six weeks, relation to the support of KPN’s capital raise by América Móvil. these theme-owners come together in the Steering Committee ‘KPN in Society’ in order to align initiatives and review progress against Since October 1, 2014 KPN has complied with the best practice II.2.8: targets. This Steering Committee is chaired by KPN’s CSR Manager, “The remuneration in the event of a dismissal may not exceed one who is responsible for the overall reporting, approach and year’s salary (the ‘fixed’ remuneration component). If the maximum coherency. Four times a year, CSR data is collected and compared of one year’s salary would be manifestly unreasonable for a with targets. The CSR Manager reports to the Director Corporate management board member who is dismissed during his first term Communication & CSR, who is responsible for the communication of office, such board member shall be eligible for severance pay not to the Board of Management. exceeding twice the annual salary.” Mr. Dirks has been member of the Board of Management of KPN from November 8, 2011 until To ensure business commitment, managers of all departments October 1, 2014. Mr. Dirks’ employment contract contained a involved in one of the themes, take part in the steering committee non-competition clause for which he would, as required by German for that CSR theme. Those departments, headed by the themelaw, receive compensation equal to 50% of his German base salary owner, coordinate activities and report the CSR data to the CSR and short-term incentive during a maximum period of 12 months. Manager and the responsible member of the senior management. Mr. Dirks resigned as of October 1, 2014 at his own request so there was no reason to apply this compensation clause. 80 KPN — Integrated Annual Report 2014 Since April 9, 2014 KPN has complied with the best practice II.3.5: “A person may be appointed to the supervisory board for a maximum of three four-year terms.” On April 10, 2013, Ms. Van Lier-Lels was reappointed as a member of the Supervisory Board for the term of one year, whereas she had already served three four-year terms. The appointment of Ms. Van Lier-Lels was based on the enhanced right of recommendation of the Works Council and was important for the Company to ensure continuity within the Supervisory Board. Ms. Van Lier-Lels resigned as a member of the Supervisory Board as of April 9, 2014. Deviations from the Dutch Corporate Governance Code are explained in accordance with the “apply or explain” principle. The text of the code as well as KPN’s application thereof is available on KPN’s website. The Foundation Preference Shares B KPN (‘Stichting Preferente Aandelen B KPN’) On August 29, 2013, the Foundation Preference Shares B KPN (the ‘Foundation’) announced that it exercised the option granted by KPN to acquire preference shares B in KPN in order to safeguard the interests of KPN and its stakeholders as América Móvil announced its intention to make a public offer for all KPN shares on August 9, 2013, without prior consultation of KPN. As a consequence thereof, 4,258,098,272 preference shares B were outstanding with the Foundation Preference Shares B KPN. The Foundation emphasized that it would be holding the preference shares B only temporarily and from time to time it would be considering its position. On November 10, 2013, the Board of the Foundation Preference Shares B KPN requested the Board of Management to convene an Extraordinary General Meeting of Shareholders to redeem the 4,258,098,272 preference shares B. The Board of the Foundation was of the opinion that there was, subsequent to the withdrawal of the intended unsolicited offer by América Móvil, no reason to defer a decision to effect the redemption of the preference shares B. KPN’s Extraordinary General Meeting of Shareholders granted the requested approvals to cancel all outstanding preference shares B on January 10, 2014, which cancellation became effective on March 21, 2014. The cancellation resulted in a repayment to the Foundation of the payment made, amounting to 25% of the nominal value of the preference shares B, increased by an amount similar to a dividend in proportion to the time the shares were outstanding. The right granted to the Foundation to acquire preference shares B is unconditional and continuous, and the Foundation is therefore entitled to acquire preference shares B in the future. KPN — Integrated Annual Report 2014 81 REPORT BY THE BOARD OF MANAGEMENT — GOVERNANCE J.B.M. Streppel Mr. Streppel was appointed as a member of the Supervisory Board on May 12, 2003 and has been the Chairman of the Supervisory Composition Board since April 13, 2010. His current (third and final) term expires in 2015. Mr. Streppel of the Boards chairs the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee and is a member of the Remuneration Committee and Strategy & Organization Committee. Mr. Streppel is the former Chief Financial Officer of AEGON N.V. and is a member of the Supervisory Board of Van Lanschot N.V., Chairman of the Board of Duisenberg School of Finance, non-executive director of RSA Group Plc. and member of the supervisory council of Arq Psycho Trauma Group. Mr. Streppel is a Dutch citizen. Supervisory Board KPN’s Supervisory Board currently consists of eight members. The composition of the Supervisory Board changed in 2014. At the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders of April 9, 2014, Mr. D.W. Sickinghe and Mrs. C.J.G. Zuiderwijk were appointed as members of the Supervisory Board. At the same time, Mr. R.J. Routs and Ms. M.E. van Lier-Lels stepped down as members of the Supervisory Board since they had reached the end of their one-year reappointment term. Mr. Spanbroek, General Counsel and company secretary, acts as secretary to the Supervisory Board. D.J. Haank All members of the Supervisory Board comply with clause 2:142a Mr. Haank was appointed as a member of the Dutch Civil Code, which limits the number of positions in of the Supervisory Board on April 7, 2009 a supervisory or management board that a director may hold. and his (second) term expires in 2017. He is the Chairman of the Audit Committee Two vacancies will arise at the closure of the Annual General and of the Remuneration Committee. Meeting of Shareholders in 2015. Mr. J.B.M. Streppel and Ms. C.M. He is also a member of the Strategy & Hooymans will step down since they will have reached the end of Organization Committee. their four-year term of office. Mr. J.B.M. Streppel will not be available for reappointment as the current four-year term of office is his third Mr. Haank is currently CEO of Springer and last term. The vacancy that will arise when Ms. C.M. Hooymans Science+Business Media (Springer). Mr. steps down in 2015 will be filled based on the enhanced right of Haank holds several supervisory and advisory recommendation of the Works Council. positions, including those of member of the Supervisory Board of NUON and MSD Netherlands B.V. and the Supervisory Council of the Dutch broadcast association TROS. Before his appointment at Springer, Mr. Haank was the CEO of Elsevier Science and Executive Board Member of Reed Elsevier PLC. Mr. Haank is a Dutch citizen. 82 KPN — Integrated Annual Report 2014 P.A.M. van Bommel C.J. García Moreno Elizondo O. Von Hauske Solis Mr. Van Bommel was appointed as a member Mr. García Moreno Elizondo was appointed Mr. Von Hauske Solis was appointed as a of the Supervisory Board on April 12, 2012 as a member of the Supervisory Board on member of the Supervisory Board on April 10, and his current (first) term expires in 2016. April 10, 2013 and his current (first) term 2013 and his current (first) term expires in He is a member of the Audit Committee. expires in 2017. He is a member of the 2017. He is a member of the Remuneration Audit Committee. Committee, the Nominating and Corporate Mr. Van Bommel is currently a member of the Governance Committee and the Strategy & board of management and CFO of ASM Mr. García Moreno Elizondo is currently Chief Organization Committee. International N.V. Mr. Van Bommel is also Financial Officer of América Móvil. He holds non-executive director of ASM PT (Hong several supervisory and advisory positions, Mr. Von Hauske Solis is currently Chief Kong). Before his appointment as CFO at including those of Banco Inbursa and Operating Officer and board member of ASMI, Mr. Van Bommel was CFO at Odersun, Nacional Financiera. Prior to joining América América Móvil. He holds several supervisory CFO at NXP and CFO at various divisions of Móvil and being a member of the Supervisory and advisory positions, including those of Phillips. Mr. Van Bommel is a Dutch citizen. Board of Telekom Austria Group, Mr. García supervisory board member of Telekom Austria, Moreno Elizondo held amongst other Telmex, NET Servicios, Embratel Participações, positions at the Mexican Ministry of Finance Telmex Brasil, Telmex Argentina, Telmex as the Director General of Public Credit and Colombia, Telmex Péru, Telmex Ecuador, at the Swiss bank Corporation Warburg as Telmex USA and Hildebrando Software. executive director and managing director. Mr. Mr. Von Hauske Solis is a Mexican citizen. García Moreno Elizondo is a Mexican citizen. C.M. Hooymans D.W. Sickinghe C.J.G. Zuiderwijk Ms. Hooymans was appointed as a member of Mr. Sickinghe was appointed as a member of Mrs. Zuiderwijk was appointed as a member the Supervisory Board on April 17, 2007 and the Supervisory Board on April 9, 2014 and of the Supervisory Board on April 9, 2014 her current (second) term expires in 2015. She his current (first) term expires in 2018. He is and her current (first) term expires in 2018. is a member of the Remuneration Committee, chairman of the Strategy & Organization She is member of the Audit Committee. as well as the Nominating and Corporate Committee and member of the Nominating Governance Committee. & Corporate Governance Committee. Mrs. Zuiderwijk is chairman of the Board of Management of the Chamber of Commerce. Ms. Hooymans is a former member of the Mr. Sickinghe is Managing Director of She is currently a member of the Supervisory Management Board of TNO and a member of Fortino (Belgium). Mr. Sickinghe was CEO Board of Indaver and member of the Board the Supervisory Board of Rabobank Vallei en of Telenet (Belgium) in the period 2001-2013. of PubliQ. In the years 1993 to 2003, Mrs. Rijn. Furthermore, she is a member of the Prior to that, he held executive positions at Zuiderwijk worked for PinkRoccade in various Board of the Radboud Foundation (Radboud Wolters Kluwer (The Netherlands) and served management functions. Thereafter, Mrs. University and Radboud University Medical in several management positions at Software Zuiderwijk was the chairman of the board of Center) and member of the advisory council Direct (France), NeXT Computer (France) and the Hilversum hospital and, following the of CBS. Ms. Hooymans is a Dutch citizen. Hewlett-Packard (Switzerland and Germany). merger with the Gooi Noord hospital, the Mr. Sickinghe is currently Chairman of the chairman of the Board of the Tergooi hospitals. Board of Van Eeghen Group (The Mrs. Zuiderwijk also was a member of the Netherlands) and a board member of Innovation Platform of the Dutch government European Asset Trust (The Netherlands) (from April 2007 to May 2010) and a member Central Media Enterprises (Czech Republic) of the Care Innovation Platform of the Dutch and UniBreda (Belgium). Mr. Sickinghe is Ministry of Health (from April 2008 to May a Dutch citizen. 2010). Mrs. Zuiderwijk is a Dutch citizen. KPN — Integrated Annual Report 2014 83 REPORT BY THE BOARD OF MANAGEMENT — GOVERNANCE Composition of the Boards Composition of the Supervisory Board Name Year of birth Start of term End of current term Committees J.B.M. Streppel (Chairman) 1949 May 12, 2003 2015 Chairman Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee; April 17, 2007* Member Remuneration Committee; Member Strategy April 6, 2011* & Organization Committee P.A.M. van Bommel 1957 April 12, 2012 2016 Member Audit Committee C.J. García Moreno Elizondo 1957 April 10, 2013 2017 Member Audit Committee D.J. Haank 1953 April 7, 2009 2017 Chairman Audit Committee; Chairman Remuneration April 10, 2013* Committee; Member Strategy & Organization Committee O. Von Hauske Solis 1957 April 10, 2013 2017 Member Remuneration Committee; Member Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee; Member Strategy & Organization Committee C.M. Hooymans 1951 April 17, 2007 2015 Member Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee; April 6, 2011* Member Remuneration Committee D.W. Sickinghe 1958 April 9, 2014 2018 Chairman Strategy & Organization Committee; Member Nominating & Corporate Governance Committee C.J.G. Zuiderwijk 1962 April 9, 2014 2018 Member Audit Committee * Reappointment. Board of Management Composition of the Board of Management Currently, the Board of Management consists of three members. In September 2014, Mr. De Jager was appointed as a member of the Board of Management and took over the roll as Chief Financial Officer on November 1, 2014. In October 2014, Mr. Dirks left the Board of Management. Mr. Van Schilfgaarde was interim CFO until November 1, 2014 and attended meetings of the Board of Management. All members of the Board of Management comply with clause E. Blok 2:132a of the Dutch Civil Code, which limits the number of As of the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders in April 2011, positions in a supervisory or management board that a director Mr. Blok is the Chairman of the Board of Management and Chief may hold. Executive Officer. End of Mr. Blok was appointed as a member of the Board of Management Year of current Name Position birth Start of term term on June 1, 2006 and was responsible for KPN’s Fixed division until E. Blok Chief Executive Officer 1957 June 2006 2018 January 1, 2007. Until February 1, 2010, he was Managing Director /2010/2014* of the Business, Getronics and Wholesale & Operations Segments J.C. de Jager Board member and 1969 September 2018 (including iBasis). As of February 1, 2010, Mr. Blok assumed Chief Financial Officer 2014 ** responsibility for KPN’s international operations, comprising J.F.E Farwerck Board member and 1965 April 2013 2017 Mobile International and iBasis, KPN’s wholesale international Chief Operating Officer voice traffic carrier. He assumed the additional role of Chief Operating Officer in October 2010. * Reappointment. ** Chief Financial Officer as of November 1, 2014. Mr. Blok joined KPN in 1983 and has had various management positions, including as director of KPN’s Carrier Services, On January 9, 2015, the Supervisory Board appointed Mr. Frank Corporate Networks and Fixed Net Operator, and he was van der Post to the Board of Management of KPN as Chief responsible for Corporate Strategy & Innovation. More recently, Commercial Officer as of March 1, 2015, after having informed the he was Chief Operating Officer of KPN’s former Fixed division. Extraordinary General Meeting of Shareholders of the intention He was previously, from April until December 2004, a member of to appoint Mr. Frank van der Post. KPN’s Board of Management. Until October 1, 2014, Mr. Blok was chairman of the Supervisory Board of E-Plus. He is a member of the Supervisory Board of Reggefiber Groep B.V. and co-chairman of the Cyber Security Council. 84 KPN — Integrated Annual Report 2014 Insider transactions KPN employees that have access to inside information through the exercise of their employment, profession or duties, including all members of the Board of Management and Supervisory Board, are subject to the Subcode ‘Inside Information’. This Subcode, which is connected to the Company Code, contains rules for possession of and transactions in KPN securities by such employees. Members of the Board of Management and Supervisory Board are furthermore subject to reporting obligations to the Authority for the Financial Markets (‘AFM’). J.C. de Jager Mr. De Jager was appointed to the Board of Management of KPN The table below provides an overview of transactions in 2014 on September 26, 2014. As from November 1, 2014 he became by (former) members of KPN’s Board of Management and Chief Financial Officer. Supervisory Board. In the period from 2007 to 2012, Mr. De Jager was a member of Price per Date Name Transaction share the Dutch Cabinet, first as State Secretary for Finance (from 2007 February 4 E. Blok Bought 50,000 ordinary EUR 2.56 to 2010), thereafter as Minister of Finance (from 2010 to 2012). KPN shares As Minister of Finance, Mr. De Jager was responsible for, among April 6 E. Blok Cancellation of 156,693 EUR – others, the budget, general financial and economic policy, conditional KPN shares supervision of financial markets and cooperation with international due to non-fulfilment financial institutions. As State Secretary for Finance, Mr. De Jager was of performance criteria responsible for many change processes, among others within the April 10 E. Blok Award of 459,975 EUR – conditional KPN shares Dutch Tax Administration. In these functions, Mr. De Jager gained a April 10 T. Dirks Award of 234,497 EUR – lot of experience with financial markets and financial management conditional KPN shares of a large organization. In the period 1992-2007, Mr. De Jager April 10 J.F.E. Farwerck Award of 207,440 EUR – founded and was Managing Partner at ISM eCompany, an eBusiness conditional KPN shares solutions company, for which he has acted as special advisor since his August 5 E. Blok Bought 50,000 ordinary EUR 2.38 resignation from the Dutch Cabinet until his employment on the KPN shares board of KPN. Mr. De Jager is member of the Board of BASE Company. September 26 J.C. de Jager Award of 225,478 EUR – conditional KPN shares October 28 J.C. de Jager Bought 30,000 ordinary KPN shares EUR 2.47 October 29 C.J. García Sold 27,500 EUR 2.55 Moreno Elizondo ordinary KPN shares October 30 C.J. García Sold 27,100 EUR 2.58 Moreno Elizondo ordinary KPN shares October 30 C.J. García Sold 25,500 EUR 2.56 Moreno Elizondo ordinary KPN shares October 31 C.J. García Sold 26,780 EUR 2.62 Moreno Elizondo ordinary KPN shares The following transactions, performed in earlier years by members of the Board of Management or Supervisory Board who were appointed in 2014, have been notified to the AFM in 2014 upon their appointment: J.F.E. Farwerck Mr. Farwerck is a member of the Board of Management and Upon appointment as member of the Supervisory Board on April Chief Operating Officer. 9, 2014: D.W. Sickinghe held 130,000 ordinary KPN shares Mr. Farwerck was appointed to the Board of Management of Upon appointment as member of the Board of Management KPN on April 10, 2013. He started work at KPN in 1994 and held on September 26, 2014: senior management positions in various divisions. He had been J.C. de Jager held 32,000 ordinary KPN shares responsible for all KPN’s activities in the Netherlands as Managing Director Netherlands since February 2012 and in September 2014 he became responsible for the operating activities of KPN as Chief Operating Officer. Mr. Farwerck is a member of the executive committee of VNO-NCW and a member of the Board of Nederland-ICT and chairman of the Board of iBasis. KPN — Integrated Annual Report 2014 85 REPORT BY THE SUPERVISORY BOARD Another important landmark in the year 2014 was the sale of E-Plus. The completion thereof – together with the balance sheet repair through a successful capital raise in 2013 – has given KPN a solid financial profile, which provides a strong platform to continue to execute the “strengthen-simplify-grow” strategy in the Netherlands and Belgium. Moreover, the improved financial performance and profile allowed KPN to resume dividend payments. KPN also owns an attractive 20.5% stake in Telefónica Deutschland. Following the sale of E-Plus, it was decided to change the organizational structure, enabling a functional and more direct control of KPN’s operating activities, leading to an even stronger customer focus and cost control (and creating two new positions of Chief Commercial Officer and Chief Operating Officer within Supervisory Board the Board of Management). The Supervisory Board supported the implementation of this new management structure. Report The Supervisory Board strengthened the Board of Management with the appointment of Mr. De Jager as Chief Financial 0fficer (CFO) and the appointment (as of March 1, 2015) of Mr. Van der Post as Chief Commercial Officer (CCO). The Supervisory Board welcomed Mrs. Zuiderwijk and Mr. Sickhinge in its midst, and gratefully bid farewell to Ms. Van Lier-Lels and Mr. Routs (who reached the end of their terms). Concluding, following turbulent recent years KPN positioned itself well in 2014 – operationally and financially – to remain the strong fixed-mobile integrated service provider with excellent customer service and products in the years to come. Strategic developments Further activities of the Supervisory Board Execution of strategy During its meetings and contacts with the Board of Management, Looking back at the year 2014, the Supervisory Board is pleased the Supervisory Board discussed the results achieved and plans with the good strategic progress made: for the next financial periods, further strategic matters that required the approval of the Supervisory Board (such as the In the consumer market, KPN realized customer base growth for exercise of the Reggefiber options) and all other relevant all the main services. KPN also significantly improved customer matters brought to its attention. satisfaction to well above market averages in the Netherlands, supported by a simplified product portfolio and client processes. The Company’s financial performance was extensively discussed Against a background of continued rationalization and migration at the Supervisory Board meetings preceding the publication to IP based services by business market customers – and at the of the quarterly and annual results and meetings at which the same time increased customer demand for a variety of new business plan was discussed. During the business plan review, services – KPN announced restructuring and efficiency measures the Supervisory Board paid special attention to the assessment in the business market aimed at achieving stronger customer of KPN’s risk profile relating to its operations and financial focus, increased standardization and lower cost levels. performance and the desired capital structure. In the discussions regarding the financial performance of KPN, the Audit Committee In a competitive Belgian market, BASE Company continued to be advised the full Supervisory Board on the most relevant matters. successful with its challenger strategy, focusing on postpaid and data growth supported by high network quality, price leadership Each quarter, the external auditor reported to the Supervisory and service leadership. Board on its Board Report, discussing, e.g., accounting consequences of the sale of E-Plus, the deferred tax asset regarding Through the year, KPN continued to invest in its networks and the tax loss on the sale of E-Plus, the accounting treatment of the IT infrastructure, with a strong focus on quality improvements Reggefiber acquisition, pension matters, the rationalization of KPN’s and process redesign. KPN completed the 4G roll-out in the internal controls, quality of financial reporting and IT security. The Netherlands and – as part of its hybrid access network strategy – Supervisory Board was again pleased with the progress made on IT continued the upgrade of the copper network and the FttH matters. Also, the Supervisory Board discussed certain acquisition roll-out with the aim to provide high-quality broadband and divestment opportunities and approved various matters services to its customers. In 2014, KPN also obtained full relating to the financing of KPN and the payment of dividends. ownership of Reggefiber, which will contribute great value to KPN’s operations with its efficient way of building and operating a passive infrastructure. 86 KPN — Integrated Annual Report 2014 As part of the strategic discussions, the Supervisory Board was Meeting information also kept informed on progress made on the Corporate Social Responsibility (“CSR”) themes of transparent, reliable service Meetings of the Supervisory Board provider, best ICT infrastructure, healthcare of the future, new way The Supervisory Board met with the Board of Management on of living and working, energy efficiency and privacy and security. nine occasions in 2014, all of which were regularly scheduled The Supervisory Board was pleased that KPN strengthened its meetings. Mr. Streppel acted as Chairman of the Supervisory front-runner position in CSR amongst international telecom Board, Mr. Haank was Vice-Chairman. The company’s Chief Legal companies and other Dutch corporates. This was recognized Officer and Company Secretary, Mr. Spanbroek, acted as secretary externally, as KPN was again listed in the Dow Jones Sustainability to the Supervisory Board. The meetings commenced and/or ended World Index, earned a top three position in the Dutch Transparency with closed meetings where only Supervisory Board members (and Benchmark (and was thus nominated for the Kristal award from the at times the CEO) were present. Ministry of Economic Affairs) and became the joint global climate leader in the telecom sector (according to the Carbon Disclosure The attendance at the Supervisory Board meetings was 86%. No Project). KPN also continued to support the “Mooiste Contact members were frequently absent and all members had adequate Fonds”, aimed at stimulating social contacts for vulnerable time available to prepare themselves and give the required groups within Dutch society. attention to the matters at hand. In the event members could not join a meeting, the Chairman discussed the matters at hand before On important technical, societal and regulatory developments, the and after the meeting, in order to obtain the input and views of Supervisory Board received regular updates. Also, the Supervisory all Supervisory Board members. The Chairman is grateful to the Board kept itself abreast of the views of (major) shareholders and Supervisory Board members for all the time they made available changes in KPN’s investor base. The Chairman of the Board was during this year with meetings and bilateral contacts between also engaged in meetings with shareholder representatives. the Chairman and individual members of the Supervisory Board. Throughout the year, the Chairman of the Supervisory Board was Independence in close contact with the Chief Executive Officer (CEO), and the Throughout the year, six members of the Supervisory Board Chairman of the Audit Committee was in close contact with the were independent from the Company within the meaning CFO (or interim CFO). Also, members of the Supervisory Board of the Dutch Corporate Governance Code. Two members – attended certain meetings of the Central Works Council. Outside Mr. García Moreno Elizondo and Mr. Von Hauske Solis – were these meetings, the Chairman of the Supervisory Board also met not considered independent within the meaning of the Dutch with the Chairman of the Central Works Council. Corporate Governance Code. The composition of the Supervisory Board was such, however, that the members were able to act The Supervisory Board also decided on proposals by the critically and independently of one another and of the Board Remuneration Committee and the Nominating and Corporate of Management. See Note 33 of the Consolidated Financial Governance Committee, regarding e.g. the composition of the Statements for related party transactions disclosure. Board of Management and the remuneration policy (as described further below). For a description of the organization and structure of KPN’s Supervisory Board, see ‘Corporate Governance’ starting on page 78. Finally, the Supervisory Board conducted a self-assessment regarding its performance in 2014, including its interaction with Committees of the Supervisory Board the Board of Management. In its assessment, the Supervisory Board used external support to perform individual interviews As set out in section ‘Corporate Governance’ starting on page 78, with its the members, as well as with the members of the Board the Supervisory Board has the following Committees: the Audit of Management and the Company Secretary. The observations Committee, the Remuneration Committee, the Nominating and of these interviews were subsequently discussed in a plenary Corporate Governance Committee and the Strategy and meeting. Overall, the Supervisory Board was positive on its own Organization Committee (as recently established). Their main performance, noting in particular an open culture and atmosphere, considerations and conclusions were shared with the full an improved focus on strategy and business, and as a consequence Supervisory Board. providing a better challenge to management – also following changes in its composition in the last years. At the same time, Audit Committee it noted topics on which it could further improve, including the The Audit Committee currently consists of four Supervisory Board information provided to it, better cooperation as a full team, members: Mr. Haank (Chairman), Mr. Van Bommel, Mr. García earlier involvement in key decisions for the company and more Moreno Elizondo and Mrs. Zuiderwijk (as of April 2014). Mr. Van focus on talent development and succession planning, also Bommel and Mr. García Moreno Elizondo are considered to be amongst senior management. Furthermore, more attention financial experts within the meaning of the Dutch Corporate should be paid to permanent education of its members. Governance Code. The Audit Committee had six regularly Actions were agreed to achieve such improvements. scheduled meetings, all of which were also attended by the CFO (or interim CFO). The attendance rate at the Audit Committee meetings was 85%. The Committee also met separately with the external auditor (as did the Chairman of the Supervisory Board). The Corporate Secretary of the Board of Management, Mrs. Van Dam-Debruyne, acted as the Audit Committee’s secretary. KPN — Integrated Annual Report 2014 87 REPORT BY THE SUPERVISORY BOARD Supervisory Board Report The Audit Committee reviewed and discussed in particular all In performing its duties, the Committee was assisted by an external financially relevant matters that were presented to the Supervisory remuneration consultancy firm (separate from the consultant used by Board. These items included the Annual Report, the quarterly the company). The Committee is fully independent in the execution results, reports by the internal auditor as well as the Disclosure of its assigned responsibilities and ensures that the external Committee and the company’s strategic plan. The Audit remuneration consultancy firm acts on the instructions of the Committee also kept a close oversight on KPN’s financing policy committee and on a basis in which conflicts of interest are avoided. and profile, as well as on the business plan risks and followed carefully the deployment of the use of proceeds of the sale of The Committee met five times in 2014, with an attendance rate of E-Plus. Furthermore, the Audit Committee paid specific attention 90%. Consistent with its charter, the Committee was involved in to the effectiveness and the outcome of the internal control several aspects, including but not limited to: framework and the risk management systems of the company. ýý Defining the level of pay-out for individual members of the Board of Management as part of the STI plan 2013 and LTI grant Each quarter, the Audit Committee also discussed in detail the 2011 and setting the financial/non-financial targets and matters included in the Board Report of the external auditor. The performance criteria for the STI plan 2014 and LTI grant 2014; general meeting of shareholders appointed PricewaterhouseCoopers ýý Introducing an adjusted LTI plan, as approved by the AGM in Accountants N.V. (“PwC”) as KPN’s independent external auditor April 2014; and for the year 2014. The Audit Committee reviewed the performance ýý Determining the new pension plan for Members of the Board of evaluation of PwC (which was conducted by senior management) Management due to new legislation that will come into effect and was satisfied with the results. The Audit Committee also closely on January 1, 2015. monitored PwC’s independence for performing non-audit-related services (e.g., when approving the related engagements). As EY was The Committee also discussed and recommended the terms and already appointed as the independent external auditor for the year conditions with regard to (intended) changes in the composition 2015 (by the general meeting of shareholders), the Audit Committee of the Board of Management, as well as granting a discretionary monitored the smooth handover from PwC to EY during the year incentive to Mr. Blok and Mr. Dirks to acknowledge their in preparation of the 2015 audit. extraordinary management achievement in the very complex and time-consuming process of closing the sale of E-Plus to The Committee also discussed other topics that were within its Telefónica Deutschland. The Supervisory Board considered that scope of attention, most notably compliance, fraud management, this achievement outperformed the regular business plan and tax matters, pension plan matters and application of IT in (financial) created substantial additional value for the Company and its processes. Finally, the Audit Committee carried out its selfshareholders, which warranted such discretionary reward. assessment by means of an extensive questionnaire, the results Further details on the activities of the Remuneration Committee of which were discussed during the last meeting of the Audit are provided in the ‘Remuneration Report’ starting on page 90. Committee in 2014. Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee Strategy and Organization Committee The Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee has The Strategy and Organization Committee (acting as of September currently four members: Mr. Streppel (Chairman), Mr. Sickinghe, 2014) currently consists of four Supervisory Board members: Mr. Mr. Von Hauske Solis, and Ms. Hooymans. Sickhinge (Chairman), Mr. Streppel, Mr. Haank and Mr. Von Hauske Solis. The Strategy and Organization Committee had two regularly The purpose of the Nominating and Corporate Governance scheduled meetings, which were also attended by the CEO, CFO Committee is to recommend individuals to the Supervisory Board and Director Strategy. The attendance rate at the Strategy and for nomination as members of the Board of Management and Organization Committee meetings was 75%. Supervisory Board, to support the Supervisory Board in adopting high standards and practices for the corporate governance The Strategy and Organization Committee worked with the Board structure, to lead the Board of Management in its periodic of Management in preparing and reviewing topics concerning the review of its performance and to oversee the Company’s activities strategy of the company (such as the fiber roll-out, content and in the areas of environmental and corporate responsibility. The cloud services) in advance of the meetings of the Supervisory attendance at Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee Board, aimed at facilitating good discussions on the strategic meetings was 80% (the Committee met seven times in 2014). options going forward. The Strategy and Organization Committee also facilitated in-depth industry debates in the Supervisory Board Consistent with its charter, the Committee discussed and based on analyses and scenario development of the customers, reviewed the size and composition of the Supervisory Board technologies and competition. and was responsible for the selection process regarding new appointments to the Supervisory Board and Board of Management. Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee currently consists of Mr. Haank The appointment of Mr. De Jager as a member of the Board of (Chairman), Mr. Von Hauske Solis, Mr. Streppel and Ms. Hooymans. Management came into effect as of KPN’s AGM on September 26, 2014. Mr. Van Schilfgaarde continued in his role as interim CFO The Committee assisted the Supervisory Board in establishing and until November 1, 2014. After this date, Mr. De Jager assumed reviewing KPN’s pay policy to ensure that members of the Board responsibility as CFO within the Board of Management of KPN. of Management are compensated consistently with that policy. 88 KPN — Integrated Annual Report 2014 Following the completion of the sale of E-Plus, Mr. Dirks (CEO Final remarks of E-Plus and member of the Board of Management of KPN at that time) stepped down as member of the Board of Management of On February 6, 2015, Mr. Ton Risseeuw, former member and KPN to become CEO of Telefónica Deutschland. Mr. Dirks left chairman of the Supervisory Board, passed away. Mr. Risseeuw the Company on October 1, 2014. played a leading role in the turn-around of our company at the start of this century, and in the many developments since then. The Supervisory Board appointed Mr. Van der Post as the We are grateful to Mr. Risseeuw for all his support and dedication company’s CCO. Shareholders were informed of the intended to the company and its employees. appointment during an Extraordinary General Meeting of Shareholders (and approved a special remuneration item). Finally, the Supervisory Board would like to thank all shareholders Mr. Van der Post will assume responsibilities as a member for their trust in the company, its customers for their trust and all of the Board of Management and CCO as of March 1, 2015. employees, the Central Works Council and management for their dedication and effort. During 2014, the composition of the Supervisory Board changed as well. Ms. Van Lier-Lels and Mr. Routs were not available for Welcomed by my colleagues, your Chairman takes this opportunity reappointment and stepped down after the AGM in April 2014. The to say farewell to you with a couple of reflections. Looking back, appointment of Mrs. Zuiderwijk and Mr. Sickinghe as members of the my terms with the company are really split into three. In the first Supervisory Board came into effect as of KPN’s AGM on April 9, 2014. part, we successfully turned around a state-owned company into a public company. The second period has been characterized by The Committee continued to be committed to ensure (when quick growth, good performance in capital markets and at the end possible) that the Supervisory Board and Board of Management over-valuation. In the third period, say the last four years, we have consist of at least 30% female and at least 30% male members, seen many technological developments and significant changes in thereby incorporating the Dutch law requirement and serving the customer behavior. It led first to a situation for KPN where we had interest of a balanced composition of the Boards. When searching to repair the balance sheet, change the business model and set the for candidates for available Board seats, special attention strategy for a successful and prosperous future of KPN. I sincerely was given to identify female candidates to achieve a more believe that these tasks have been achieved now that the Board even distribution between male and female members. However, of Management is both capable and complete. Your outgoing KPN aims to select the best person for the job and – as suitable Chairman is extremely grateful to shareholders and employees female candidates were not deemed available – the 30% female and above all to our customers to lead the company to where representatives on Board of Management level was not yet it is now. I trust that the Chairmanship of the Supervisory Board achieved. For the upcoming Supervisory Board vacancies, is in highly capable hands with my successor Mr. Sickinghe. KPN aims to make further progress to implement the policy and achieve the 30% female representation. In this context, the Committee also asked the Board of Management The Hague, February 25, 2015 to pay special attention to the recruitment and retention of female leadership talent at the senior leadership level in order to create a more diverse internal talent pipeline. Moreover, the diversity goals were expanded to include young people, women, migrant men and J.B.M. Streppel women, people with disabilities and seniors and thus achieve truly diverse teams which reflect society. For further information on P.A.M. van Bommel KPN’s diversity policy, see ‘Our people’ starting on page 34. D.J. Haank For an overview of all members of the Board of Management and Supervisory Board, see ‘Composition of the Boards’ starting C.M. Hooymans on page 82. C.J. García Moreno Elizondo Financial Statements O. Von Hauske Solis The Financial Statements for the year ended December 31, 2014, were prepared by the Board of Management and approved by D.W. Sickinghe the Supervisory Board. The Report of the Independent Auditor, PricewaterhouseCoopers Accountants N.V., is included in the C.J.G. Zuiderwijk ‘Other Information’ on pages 180-185. The Supervisory Board recommends that the AGM adopts these Financial Statements. KPN — Integrated Annual Report 2014 89 REPORT BY THE SUPERVISORY BOARD — REMUNERATION REPORT Introduction We are pleased to present to you the report of the Remuneration Committee (the Committee) and we are committed to preserving your confidence and trust by presenting an accountable and transparent implementation of our pay policy. The Committee’s tasks are laid down in the terms of reference of the Committee. The Committee assists the Supervisory Board with establishing and reviewing the Company’s pay policy to ensure that members of the Board of Management are compensated consistently with that policy. Remuneration Report The Chairman and members of the Remuneration Committee are appointed by the Supervisory Board. The Committee currently consists of Mr. Haank (Chairman), Mr. Von Hauske Solis, Ms. Hooymans and Mr. Streppel. We aim to fostering an action-oriented culture aimed at delivering results, and our pay programs therefore emphasize variable pay and long-term value creation. The target pay aims at 30–40% of pay in base salary, and 60–70% in variable pay in order to maintain a strong alignment with the Company’s annual financial performance goals and long-term value creation strategy. In our judgment, this relationship and ratio between base salary and performance-related pay adequately reflects the balance between the Company’s objectives and its entrepreneurial spirit. Moreover, we are confident that the level and structure of Board of Management pay is in line with management development goals and pay differentials within the Company. This enables the Company to attract, motivate and retain senior management of the necessary caliber and leadership background. Overview Executive pay Duties and activities Executive pay policy Details of actual Supervisory at a glance of the Committee – detailed overview remuneration Board pay A B C D E Highlights of KPN’s Insight into the topics In-depth insight into Insight into actual Insight into KPN’s pay policy (through discussed by the KPN’s pay policy cost levels for the pay policy for the questions and Committee for the Board Board of Management Supervisory Board answers) of Management 90 KPN — Integrated Annual Report 2014 A. Executive pay at a glance What are the objectives and principles of KPN’s pay policy? Objectives: Principles: Attracting, motivating and retaining the necessary leadership talent Paying competitively Driving performance that generates long-term profitable growth Paying for performance Promoting behavior that reinforces the business strategy and desired culture Differentiating by experience and responsibility Encouraging customer satisfaction and teamwork across KPN Linking rewards to shareholder value creation Complying with best practice in corporate governance General acceptance by all stakeholders How are executives rewarded? The pay mix for executives consists of the following four elements: Component Form Fixed/variable Drivers Base salary Cash Experience and responsibility Fixed Benefits (primarily pensions) Funded by cash contributions Market-competitive standards Short-Term Incentive (STI) Cash Performance – assessed through annual financial and non-financial targets Long-Term Incentive (LTI) Conditional shares Variable Performance – assessed through relative TSR (peer group), Free Cash Flow, Earnings per Share and non-financial parameters What is the ratio between fixed and variable pay? How is the level of compensation established? The ratio between fixed and variable pay is influenced by the KPN’s pay levels are benchmarked with other companies in order extent to which targets are met. The pie charts represent the pay to ensure that KPN’s total level of compensation based on the pay mix for both the CEO and the other Board members in case of an mix is in line with KPN’s pay policy and objectives, as described on-target performance. above. In order to benchmark pay levels, KPN uses an employment peer group of companies against which KPN competes for talent. The peer employment group consists of the largest Dutch Compensation policy AEX-listed and European sector-specific companies. CEO The advice of an independent external consultant, separate from the consultant used by the Company, is used by the Committee to Base ensure an objective benchmark for KPN’s levels of pay. STI LTI 30% 42% 28% Other Executives Base STI LTI 36% 40% 24% KPN — Integrated Annual Report 2014 91 REPORT BY THE SUPERVISORY BOARD — REMUNERATION REPORT Remuneration Report Are incentives aligned with strategy? The focus of the strategy is on customer loyalty, networks and Strategic Goals of ‘Strengthen – Simplify – Grow’ services, simplification of the operation model, cost reduction, integration of services and sustainability. The goals and objectives of the new strategy are reflected in the shortto medium-term targets and long-term targets, which are used to compensate KPN has set a number of key objectives: senior management for their performance. � Improve market position and customer satisfaction and loyalty � Invest in best-in-class networks Is the level of variable compensation aligned with the Company’s � Simplify the organization and its operating model risk profile? � Simplify our products and services portfolio KPN aligns incentives with its long-term strategy, but it also needs � Conduct business in a sustainable way to focus on short-term success in order to achieve further growth. � Further develop multiplay propositions The Company’s risk profile is embedded in the short-term and � Solid ﬁnancial proﬁle long-term incentive structure which is assured by KPN’s standards of internal control over financial reporting. Short-term targets Long-term targets Financial: typically based on, Financial: peer group position but not limited to, EBITDA, (relative total shareholder revenue and Free Cash Flow return), EPS and FCF Non-ﬁnancial: typically based Non-ﬁnancial: based on on various measures of energy reduction and customer satisfaction and reputation loyalty and market shares Reward Reward Cash Conditional shares What was rewarded in 2014? The bar chart below shows the actual remuneration related to the year. This includes the annual base pay, STI, LTI vested in the year, pension cost and any additional remuneration. Board of Management (in thousands of EUR) 2014 858 548 425 254 (Total 2,085) Eelco Blok 2013 857 251 271 (Total 1,379) 2014 583 167 119 (Total 869) Joost Farwerck1 2013 422 65 96 (Total 583) Jan Kees de Jager1 2014 167 55 33 (Total 255) Base STI Discretionary reward Actual vested LTI Pension Cost 1) Remuneration of Mr. de Jager since appointment as Board member in September 2014 and remuneration of Mr. Farwerck since appointment as Board member in April 2013. 92 KPN — Integrated Annual Report 2014 B. Duties and activities of the Committee ýý Driving performance that generates long-term profitable growth; ýý Promoting behavior that reinforces the business strategy and Duties of the Committee desired culture; The Committee assists the Supervisory Board with: ýý Encouraging teamwork across business units and ýý Establishing and reviewing the Company’s pay policy functional areas; (based amongst other things on national and international ýý Linking rewards to value creation for shareholders benchmark standards); and other stakeholders; ýý Ensuring that members of the Board of Management are ýý Complying with best practice in Corporate Governance; and compensated consistently with that policy; and ýý General acceptance by all stakeholders. ýý Reviewing and, if appropriate, recommending changes to the pay of the Supervisory Board. Principles of KPN’s pay policy KPN’s pay policy is guided by three broad principles: Members of the Supervisory Board regularly liaise with senior management below Board level. 1) Paying competitively: this is achieved through benchmarking against an employment market peer group consisting of In performing its duties, the Committee is assisted by an external companies with which KPN generally competes for talent; remuneration consultancy firm (separate from the consultant 2) Pay-for-performance: target pay aims at 30-40% of pay in base used by the Company). The Committee is fully independent in salary, and 60–70% in variable pay in order to maintain a strong the execution of its assigned responsibilities and ensures that the alignment with the Company’s annual financial performance external remuneration consultancy firm acts on the instructions goals and long-term value creation strategy; and of the Committee and on a basis by which conflicts of interest 3) Differentiating by experience and responsibility: this is achieved are avoided. through alignment of the pay with the responsibilities, relevant experience, required competence and performance of individual Activities during 2014 jobholders. Consequently, there can be substantial differentials The Committee met five times in 2014, with an attendance rate of in pay levels, despite employees having similar job titles. 90%. Consistent with its charter, the Committee has been involved in several aspects, such as: These principles apply to all levels of senior management. ýý Defining the level of pay-out for individual members of the The Company’s pay policy is compliant with the relevant legal Board of Management as part of the STI plan 2013 and LTI requirements and the principles of the Dutch Corporate grant 2011 and setting the financial/non-financial targets and Governance Code. performance criteria for the STI plan 2014 and LTI grant 2014; ýý Recommending the terms and conditions agreed upon Composition of employment market peer group and market with regard to changes in the composition of the Board assessment of Management; To ensure the overall competitiveness of KPN’s pay levels, these ýý Introducing an adjusted LTI plan, as approved by the AGM in levels are benchmarked against an employment market peer group. April 2014, taking into account KPN’s risk profile, the Company’s The Committee uses one peer group consisting of AEX-listed pay policy, pay trends in the Netherlands and abroad as well as companies and European sector-specific companies. The table below trends in Corporate Governance; shows the current composition of KPN’s employment peer group: ýý Reviewing the need for adjustments in pay levels (where applicable, and in order to ensure a consistent pay structure Employment peer group for the individual members of the Board of Management); AkzoNobel NV Randstad Holding NV ýý Adjusting the terms of reference of the Committee; DSM NV Royal Philips Electronics NV ýý Granting a discretionary reward to Mr. Blok and Mr. Dirks to Heineken NV Unilever NV/Plc acknowledge their extraordinary management achievement Reed Elsevier NV/Plc Portugal Telecom SA in the very complex and time consuming process of closing Royal Ahold NV Swisscom AG the sale of E-Plus to Telefónica Deutschland; Belgacom SA Vodafone Group Plc ýý Discussing and determining the details of the remuneration BT Group Plc Cap Gemini NV packages for Mr. De Jager and Mr. Van der Post; ýý Determining the new pension plan for Members of the Board The Committee regularly reviews the peer group to ensure that the of Management due to new legislation that came into effect composition is still appropriate. The composition of the peer group on January 1, 2015; and might be adjusted as a result of mergers or other corporate activities. ýý Preparing the Remuneration Report 2014 to be included in KPN’s Integrated Annual Report. The relative size of KPN is taken into account when determining whether KPN ‘pays competitively’. C. Executive pay policy – detailed overview Base salary Objectives of KPN’s pay policy The Committee determines appropriate base salary levels based KPN is dedicated to fostering a strongly action-oriented culture on KPN’s relative positioning in the peer group. In line with KPN’s aimed at delivering results. KPN’s pay programs therefore emphasize pay-for-performance principle, base salary is targeted at the lower variable pay and long-term value creation. KPN’s plans are designed end of the market-competitive range. Each year, the Supervisory to achieve the following objectives: Board considers whether circumstances justify an adjustment in ýý Attracting, motivating and retaining the necessary leadership base salary within the market-competitive target range for talent in order to sustain and expand KPN’s unique individual members of the Board of Management. competencies and capabilities; KPN — Integrated Annual Report 2014 93 REPORT BY THE SUPERVISORY BOARD — REMUNERATION REPORT Remuneration Report Short-Term Incentives (STI) increasing the cash incentive by 30%). With this discretionary factor, General the Supervisory Board is able to express the assessment of the At the beginning of each year, the Supervisory Board sets financial overall individual performance of each member of the Board of and non-financial target ranges for the Board of Management. Management. The ability to apply a discretionary factor does not These ranges are based on the Company’s business plan. At the increase average achievement levels. It does, however, allow the end of the year, the Supervisory Board reviews the Company’s Supervisory Board some discretion in differentiating on the basis performance against the target ranges. Members of the Board of individual contributions to Company performance. of Management are eligible for an annual cash incentive only if Company performance is at or above the predetermined ranges. The Supervisory Board has the discretionary authority to reward extraordinary management achievement that outperforms the Objectives regular business plan and has created substantial additional value The objective of this STI scheme is to ensure that the Board of for the Company and its shareholders. Other than that, discretion Management is well incentivized to achieve Company performance both upwards and downwards can be applied by the Supervisory targets in the shorter term. Specific details on targets cannot be Board if the outcome of the STI scheme would produce an unfair disclosed for all performance measures, as this would require result or if the outcome would not be considered to reflect the providing commercially sensitive information. basic objectives and principles of pay as outlined in this section. Performance incentive zone Actual pay-out levels The target ranges for financial and operational performance comprise: For 2014, taking into consideration that it was a transformational ýý A ‘threshold’ below which no incentive is paid; year for KPN with good strategic progress, amongst other targets, ýý An ‘on-target’ performance level at which an ‘on-target’ EBITDA was slightly above threshold, EBITDA minus Capex was incentive is paid; and below threshold, market shares were, on average, around target ýý A ‘maximum’ at which the maximum incentive is paid. performance, Free Cash Flow was around on-target and customer base was below threshold. Next to that a discretionary reward of The STI is designed to strike a balance between the Company’s risk 50% of their annual base salary was granted to Mr. Blok and Mr. profile and the incentive to achieve ambitious targets. The pay-out Dirks in October, to acknowledge their extraordinary management methodology is based on a separate pay-out approach for each of achievement in the very complex and time-consuming process of the financial and non-financial targets. closing the sale of E-Plus to Telefónica Deutschland. The Supervisory Board considered that this achievement outperformed the regular The Supervisory Board’s ability to apply a discretionary factor ranges business plan and created substantial additional value for the between 0.7 (i.e. cutting the cash incentive by 30%) and 1.3 (i.e. Company and its shareholders, which warranted such a discretionary reward. Form of Pay-out at or above maximum Component compensation Value determination Targets Pay-out at threshold performance performance1 STI Cash ‘On-target’ incentive Targets typically are 25% of the ‘on-target’ incentive 150% of the ‘on-target’ equals 90% of base EBITDA, Free Cash Flow (i.e. 22.5% of base salary for the incentive (i.e. 135% of base salary for the CEO and various measures CEO and 15% of base salary for salary for the CEO and 90% and 60% of base customer satisfaction and the other members of the Board of base salary for the other salary for the other loyalty and market shares. of Management). members of the Board members of the Board of Management). of Management. Pay-out below threshold performance: 0% of the ‘on-target’ incentive. 1) Maximum including the effect of the discretionary factor. Long-Term incentives (LTI) General In addition to the base salary and the short-term annual cash of its long-term (or prospective) shareholders and to provide an incentive described above, a long-term incentive based on incentive for members of the Board of Management to continue performance shares is used to ensure that the interests of the their employment relationship with the Company. members of the Board of Management are aligned with those Scenario maximum (position 1 in TSR peer group and maximum Form of performance on financial and Component compensation Value determination1 Drivers2 On-target non-financial targets) Long-term Shares CEO: based on 135% of For 25% based on relative TSR 100% of the granted 200% of the granted share-based base pay with deferred versus peer group, for 25% on Free shares vest. shares vest. compensation dividend. Other Cash Flow, for 25% on Earnings members of the Board Per Share, for 12.5% on of Management: based sustainability/environmental on 90% of base pay targets and for 12.5% on with deferred dividend. stakeholder/customer targets. 1) Based on the average share price of the first trading day after the AGM. 2) Vesting of non-financial targets will be subject to achieving a cumulative net profit during the vesting period of three years (i.e. qualifier for vesting). 94 KPN — Integrated Annual Report 2014 The number of shares granted under this plan is based on a Position Vesting schedule Vesting schedule Ranking companies percentage of base pay as shown in the table. The number 2012-2013 grant 2014 grant 2012 grant of shares that actually vest, for the LTI plans 2014 onwards, is Position 1 200% 200% Hellenic Telecom (OTE) performance related and for 25% based on relative TSR versus Position 2 200% 175% BT Group PLC peer group, for 25% on Free Cash Flow, for 25% on Earnings Per Position 3 200% 150% Telenor ASA Share, for 12.5% on sustainability and environmental targets Position 4 175% 125% Deutsche Telekom AG and for 12.5% on stakeholder and customer targets. The vesting Position 5 150% 100% Swisscom AG methodology is based on a separate vesting approach for each Position 6 125% 75% Belgacom SA of the financial and non-financial targets. Position 7 100% No vesting Orange SA Position 8 No vesting No vesting KPN NV (13th position) and below It is considered that comparing KPN’s TSR with a wider group of companies (either geographically or with other industries) is not meaningful. Variations in returns would most likely be attributed The table above provides the vesting schedules of the TSR part largely to macro-economic events and/or sector shifts rather than in the LTI plans and an overview of the final ranking of the 2012 to variations in management actions. Therefore, benchmarking share plan that vests in 2015. Vesting schedule for financial and TSR achievements relative to other, similar companies emphasizes non-financial targets other than TSR: threshold performance 25%, rewarding for specific KPN performance. on-target performance 100% and maximum performance 200%. The non-financial parameters set for 2014 are based on energy Please note that the peer group used for relative TSR reflects the reduction and a reputation dashboard. Please refer to the relevant competitive market in which KPN competes for investor Environmental Performance chapter of this report for detailed preference. As such, it is different from the employment market information about the energy reduction parameters. Vesting is peer group, which is used to determine pay levels for the CEO and in principle also subject to the condition that the member of members of the Board of Management. The peer group may be the Board of Management has not resigned within three years adjusted if an individual company no longer qualifies as a relevant of the date of the initial grant. peer company. The performance period of the LTI plan is set at three years. Performance incentive zone The Committee uses scenario analysis to estimate the possible In line with the design of KPN’s LTI plan the target performance outcomes of the value of the shares vesting in coming years and ranges for vesting of the LTI plan comprise a threshold below decides whether a correct risk incentive is set for the Management which no shares vest, an on-target performance level at which Board members with respect to the overall level of pay and pay shares vest an on-target and a maximum at which the shares vest differentials within the Company. at the maximum level. In addition to the information provided in the Remuneration Once vested, the shares will have to be held for a minimum period Report, please refer to Note 3 of the Consolidated Financial of two years. An exception to this rule is made for shares that are Statements for a further description and valuation of the option sold to cover income tax obligations in relation to the vested and share plans. shares (typically the value taxed as income equals the amount of shares vested multiplied by the share price at the time of vesting). Performance-measuring and peer group performance The table below provides an overview of KPN’s performance peer The external remuneration consultant calculates the end-of-year group to determine KPN’s relative shareholder return for LTI plans TSR peer group position and the number of shares vested based as of 2014. on this target and makes certain that calculations are performed objectively and independently. Companies included in the peer group Belgacom SA Tele2 AB The Supervisory Board has the discretionary authority to reward BT Group Plc Telekom Austria AG extraordinary management achievement that outperforms the Deutsche Telekom AG TeliaSonera AB regular business plan(s) and has created substantial additional Mobistar SA Vodafone Group Plc value for the Company and its shareholders. Other than that, Orange SA Swisscom AG discretion both upwards and downwards can be applied by the TDC A/S KPN NV Supervisory Board if the outcome of the LTI incentive scheme would produce an unfair result or if the outcome would not be considered to reflect the basic objectives and principles of pay as outlined in this section. The change of control clause contains immediate vesting at 100% (irrespective of the actual performance at that moment, whether higher or lower) and lifting of the blocked period normally applicable, to enable the member of the Board of Management to dispose of his shares in the situation of a change of control. The immediate vesting at 100% will be pro rata for the time passed in the plan during the vesting period of three years (i.e. 1/3 in year one, 2/3 in year two, full in year three). KPN — Integrated Annual Report 2014 95 REPORT BY THE SUPERVISORY BOARD — REMUNERATION REPORT Remuneration Report Further details of the LTI plan are disclosed in a so-called factsheet Change in composition and responsibilities of the Board as approved by the AGM in April 2014. of Management The appointment of Mr. De Jager as a member of the Board of Actual pay-out levels Management came into effect as of KPN’s EGM on September 26, Final TSR measurement for the 2012 share grant was conducted 2014. The remuneration package of Mr. De Jager fits within KPN’s as per February 15, 2015. KPN’s performance resulted in the 13th remuneration policy as approved by the General Meeting of position in the TSR performance peer group with respect to the Shareholders. His employment contract provides for a base salary 2012 share award. This position does not lead to vesting in April of EUR 625,000 per year. Mr. De Jager is eligible for shortand 2015 of the granted shares. long-term variable incentives, which are dependent on the performance of KPN versus the Company’s financial and/or Claw-back clause non-financial targets. The contractual severance pay is equal to The Supervisory Board has the discretionary authority to recover one year’s base compensation. A defined contribution pension variable pay awarded on the basis of incorrect financial or other data. plan is part of the arrangements. Mr. Van Schilfgaarde continued in his role as interim CFO until November 1, 2014. After this date, Benefits Mr. de Jager assumed responsibility as CFO within the Board of Pensions Management of KPN. Members of the Board of Management are eligible for a defined contribution pension plan with a contribution based on the fiscal The Supervisory Board announced its intention to appoint defined contribution table that corresponds to a retirement age of Mr. Van der Post as the Company’s Chief Commercial Officer (CCO). 67 and an annual accrual rate of 2.15%. The pension plan for 2015 Shareholders were informed of the intended appointment during onwards will be adjusted in line with new pension legislation, i.e. an EGM on January 9, 2015 and consequently the Supervisory accrual rate of 1.875% and pension accrual capped at EUR 100,000 Board appointed Mr. Van der Post as member of the Board of base pay. Consequently, the Dutch Board members will receive a Management. Mr. Van der Post will assume responsibilities as a fixed gross allowance as of January 2015 equal to the associated member of the Board of Management and CCO as from March 1, pension contribution paid by the Company in 2014 for the base pay 2015. The main terms and conditions of Mr. Van der Post’s part above EUR 100,000. This gross allowance is calculated based agreement fit within KPN’s remuneration policy, as approved on the applicable 2014 defined contribution plan, i.e. determined by the General Meeting of Shareholders. Mr. Van der Post will based on the age and annual base salary of the individual Board earn a base salary of EUR 700,000 per year. He is also eligible members. The gross annual allowance can be used to build up for a short-term variable cash incentive and a long-term variable additional pension benefits based on a so-called net-saving incentive (based on conditional shares). In addition, as a partial pension plan as facilitated by Dutch (fiscal) pension legislation. compensation for rights that Mr. Van der Post will forfeit at his previous employer, he will receive EUR 1.2 million compensation Additional arrangements in cash and shares (spread out over time). Because compensation The additional arrangements, such as life insurance coverage, of this type was not foreseen in KPN’s remuneration policy, expense allowances, use of cell phones and company car provisions shareholders were requested to grant their approval thereto needed for the execution of their roles, are broadly in line with at the EGM on January 9, 2015. This approval was granted other companies of similar size and complexity, as well as with by the shareholders. market practice. Following completion of the sale of E-Plus, Mr. Dirks, CEO Loans of E-Plus and member of the Board of Management of KPN, has Company policy does not allow loans or guarantees to be granted stepped down as member of the Board of Management of KPN to to members of the Board of Management. become CEO of Telefónica Deutschland. Mr. Dirks left the Company on October 1, 2014. Terms of employment Members of the Board of Management have a service agreement Outlook for 2015 for a definite period of time with the exception of Mr. Blok, who No adjustments in the Company’s remuneration policy that require has an employment contract for an indefinite period of time. AGM approval are foreseen in 2015. Members of the Board are appointed for a period of four years, which is in line with the requirements of the Dutch Corporate Governance Code. Severance arrangements Severance payments for the CEO and members of the Board of Management are aligned with the Dutch Corporate Governance Code (one year base salary, and – exceptionally during the initial term of four years – up to two years’ base salary). 96 KPN — Integrated Annual Report 2014 D. Details of actual remuneration The remuneration of the current members of the Board of Management is set out below. All sections under D and E are part of the Financial Statements and subject to audit. Salary & Social Discretionary Security STI3 award6 LTI: Share awards1 Pension costs2 Total Name Year (EUR) (EUR) (EUR) (EUR) (EUR) (EUR) E. Blok 2014 857,506 547,995 425,000 503,860 254,100 2,588,461 2013 857,171 250,835 – 556,466 271,000 1,935,472 J.F.E. Farwerck4 2014 582,506 167,038 – 217,210 118,700 1,085,454 2013 422,074 64,866 – 86,152 95,600 668,692 J.C. de Jager4 2014 166,911 54,526 – 55,341 33,357 310,135 Total current members5 2014 1,606,923 769,559 425,000 776,411 406,157 3,984,050 2013 1,279,245 315,701 – 642,618 366,600 2,604,164 1) The amounts in the table, in deviation from previous years, represent the cost recognized for shares in 2014 and 2013 based on their fair values and no longer the total cost of the granted shares in these years. The fair value per share of the 2014 grant was EUR 2.37 (excluding deferred dividend). Please refer to the ‘Long-term incentives’ section of this report for a further explanation. Under IFRS, the fair value of the share-based award is recorded as cost over the vesting period. The total cost relating to the 2014 grant of share awards amounted to EUR 1,090,141 for Mr. Blok (EUR 166,095 in 2013), EUR 491,633 for Mr. Farwerck (EUR 115,392 in 2013) and EUR 534,383 for Mr. De Jager. 2) The pension costs relate to the premiums paid or service cost. Interest charges and investment yields are not allocated on an individual basis. In the pension costs, in deviation from previous years, the costs for survivor’s pension, disability coverage and administration cost are included. 3) Actual STI that relates to performance in the current year but paid out in the following financial year. Please refer to the ‘Short-term incentives’ section of this report for the actual pay-out levels per target in 2014. Final market shares in 2013 were determined in March 2014 which slightly altered the STI amounts for 2013 that were disclosed in the 2013 Annual Report. 4) Remuneration of Mr. Farwerck since appointment as a Board member in April 2013 and remuneration of Mr. De Jager since appointment as a Board member in September 2014. 5) In 2013, the temporary employer tax charge of 16% on 2013 salaries exceeding EUR 150,000 was recorded. This tax charge amounted to EUR 328,138 for the Board members in 2013 and is not included in the figures above. 6) A discretionary reward of 50% of his annual base salary was granted to Mr. Blok to acknowledge his extraordinary management achievement in the very complex and time-consuming process of closing the sale of E-Plus to Telefónica Deutschland. The pay of the former members of the Board of Management is provided below. Discretionary Salary & Social award/Notice Security STI period LTI: Share Awards1 Pension costs Total Name Year (EUR) (EUR) (EUR) (EUR) (EUR) (EUR) T. Dirks2 2014 487,500 253,744 325,000 247,517 45,950 1,359,711 2013 650,000 142,090 – 89,153 67,232 948,475 W.T.J. Hageman 20133 619,671 – 236,161 -50,817 88,200 893,215 Total former members4 2014 487,500 253,744 325,000 247,517 45,950 1,359,711 2013 1,269,671 142,090 236,161 38,336 155,432 1,841,690 1) The amounts in the table, in deviation from previous years, represent the cost recognized for shares in 2014 and 2013 based on their fair values and no longer the total cost of the granted shares in these years. The fair value per share of the 2014 grant was EUR 2.37 (excluding deferred dividend). Under IFRS the fair value of the share-based awards is charged to the P&L over the vesting period. The total cost relating to the 2014 grant of share awards amounted to EUR 555,758 for Mr. Dirks (EUR 115,392 in 2013). 2) Remuneration of Mr. Dirks until October 2014. Final market shares in 2013 were determined in March 2014 which slightly altered the STI amounts for 2013 that were disclosed in the 2013 Annual Report. A discretionary reward of 50% of his annual base salary was granted to Mr. Dirks, to acknowledge his extraordinary management achievement in the very complex and time consuming process of closing the sale of E-Plus to Telefónica Deutschland. 3) Remuneration of Mr. Hageman until December 31, 2013. In the light of the six months’ notice period for cancellation of the employment contract, it was agreed with Mr. Hageman to pay his remuneration to the end of the year and pay the remainder in December 2013. 4) The temporary employer tax charge of 16% on 2013 salaries exceeding EUR 150,000 amounts to EUR 159,154 for the former Board members in 2013 and is not included in the figures above.  KPN — Integrated Annual Report 2014 97 REPORT BY THE SUPERVISORY BOARD — REMUNERATION REPORT Remuneration Report The following table summarizes the shares/share-based awards granted to current members of the Board of Management Pre-tax market Number of shares/ Number of shares/ Total pre-tax value of shares Number of share-based awards share-based fair value of on vesting shares granted granted, vested, awards as of shares on date or end of End of as of January 1, forfeited or December 31, grant date lock-up in 2014 lock-up Grant date Current status8 2014 sold in 20141-2 2014 (EUR)3 (EUR) period E. Blok 4/10/2014 Conditional – 459,975 459,975 1,090,141 – 4/10/2019 4/12/2013 Conditional 156,693 – 156,693 166,095 – 4/12/2018 4/23/2012 Conditional 156,693 – 156,693 269,800 – 4/23/2017 4/6/20116 Conditional 156,693 -156,693 – 1,085,850 – n/a J.F.E. Farwerck 4/10/2014 Conditional – 207,440 207,440 491,633 – 4/10/2019 4/12/2013 Conditional 108,860 – 108,860 115,392 – 4/12/2018 4/23/20125 Conditional 53,606 – 53,606 92,300 – 4/23/2017 5/1/20125-7 Conditional 24,741 – 24,741 76,800 – n/a 4/6/20115-6 Conditional 39,008 -39,008 – 270,317 – n/a J.C. de Jager 9/26/20145-6 Conditional – 225,478 225,478 534,383 – 4/10/2019 The following table summarizes the shares/share-based awards granted to former members of the Board of Management Pre-tax market Number of shares/ Number of shares/ Total pre-tax value of shares Number of share-based awards share-based fair value of on vesting shares granted granted, vested, awards as of shares on date or end of End of as of January 1, forfeited or sold in December 31, grant date lock-up in 2014 lock-up Grant date Current status7 2014 20141-2 2014 (EUR)3 (EUR) period T. Dirks 4/10/20144 Conditional – 32,569 32,569 555,758 – 4/10/2019 4/12/2013 Conditional 108,860 -57,454 51,406 115,392 – 4/12/2018 4/23/2012 Conditional 108,860 -21,167 87,693 187,440 – 4/23/2017 4/6/20115-6 Conditional 45,523 -45,523 – 315,468 – n/a 1) The shares granted to the members of the Board of Management represent 18% of the total number of shares and share-based awards granted in 2014 to all employees. On the grant date (April 10, 2014) the KPN share price quoted EUR 2.49 (closing price) while the fair value of each granted share was EUR 2.37 for members of the Board of Management. For Mr. Hageman all grants were forfeited in 2013. 2) The 2014 grant numbers do not include any deferred dividend during the vesting period. The deferred dividend during the vesting period will be additional granted in shares. 3) Value is calculated by multiplying the number of share awards by the fair value at grant date. 4) For Mr. Dirks the 2014 grant of 234,497 shares was reduced to 32,569 shares based on his last day in service of September 30, 2014. 5) Not granted in capacity as member of the Board of Management. 6) Final TSR measurement for the 2011 share grant was conducted as of February 15, 2014. 7) Shares in the vesting period or lock-up period are disclosed as conditional. See Note 3 of the Consolidated Financial Statements for a description of the share plan. 98 KPN — Integrated Annual Report 2014 Stock ownership Board of Management E. Supervisory Board pay The table below shows the shares held by current members of the Board of Management (including vested shares in lock-up period). The Committee is responsible for reviewing and, if appropriate, recommending changes to the pay of the Supervisory Board. Number of shares December 31, 2014 December 31, 2013 Any recommended changes to Supervisory Board pay must be E. Blok 600,109 500,109 submitted to the General Meeting of Shareholders for approval. J.F.E. Farwerck 27,195 27,195 In view of the competitive remuneration developments in the J.C. de Jager 62,000 n/a market combined with an increased workload and responsibility for Supervisory Board members, the remuneration policy of the The table below shows the shares held by former members of the Supervisory Board was reassessed during 2010, resulting in a Board of Management proposal to adjust the remuneration levels of the Supervisory Board. This proposal was approved by the General Meeting of Number of shares December 31, 2014 December 31, 2013 Shareholders on April 6, 2011. Please refer to the table for further W.T.J. Hageman1 n/a 50,000 details. Members receive an additional fee if a meeting is held in T. Dirks1 n/a n/a a country other than the member’s country of residence. 1) Number of shares at the date of stepping down from the Board of Management. Shareholdings in the Company held by Supervisory Board members serve as a long-term investment in the Company and Share ownership relates to ordinary shares. help to align their interest with those of KPN’s other shareholders. No Supervisory Board member is granted stock options or shares In 2011 a share ownership recommendation was introduced as a form of pay. As a policy, the Company does not provide loans whereby the members of the Board of Management are or guarantees to its Supervisory Board members. encouraged to acquire Company shares equal to one times the annual fixed compensation for members of the Board of Ms. Van Lier-Lels and Mr. Routs were not available for reappointment Management (excluding CEO) and two times the annual fixed and stepped down after the AGM in April 2014. The appointment of compensation for the CEO. Retained vested shares as part of the Mrs. Zuiderwijk and Mr. Sickinghe as members of the Supervisory LTI will be included in the share ownership recommendation. Board came into effect as of KPN’s AGM on April 9, 2014. The table below shows the pay-out to Supervisory Board Members in 2014 and fixed Committee fees on an annual basis. Amounts in EUR Fees 2014 Chairman Supervisory Board 100,000 Vice Chairman of the Supervisory Board 70,000 Member Supervisory Board 60,000 Chairman Audit Committee 20,000 Member Audit Committee 10,000 Chairman Strategy & Organization Committee 10,000 Member Strategy & Organization Committee 5,000 Chairman Remuneration Committee 10,000 Member Remuneration Committee 5,000 Chairman Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee 10,000 Member Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee 5,000 KPN — Integrated Annual Report 2014 99 REPORT BY THE SUPERVISORY BOARD — REMUNERATION REPORT Remuneration Report The table below shows the actual fee received by each member of the Supervisory Board. Membership fees Committee fees Amounts in EUR 2014 2014 2014 Total 2013 Total J.B.M. Streppel 100,000 18,639 118,639 115,000 D.J. Haank 67,278 30,917 98,195 80,000 C.M. Hooymans 60,000 10,000 70,000 70,000 P.A.M. van Bommel 60,000 10,000 70,000 70,000 C.J. García Moreno Elizondo 60,000 10,000 70,000 52,500 O. Von Hauske Solis 60,000 13,639 73,639 52,500 C.J.G. Zuiderwijk 43,667 7,278 50,945 – D.W. Sickinghe 43,667 10,917 54,584 – R.J. Routs1 19,056 4,083 23,139 85,000 M.E. van Lier-Lels1 16,484 2,747 19,231 70,000 A.H.J. Risseeuw1 – – – 17,500 M. Bischoff1 – – – 17,500 Total 530,152 118,220 648,372 630,000 1) Former member of the Supervisory Board. Stock ownership of the Supervisory Board The table below shows the shares held by members of the Supervisory Board. Number of shares December 31, 2014 December 31, 2013 J.B.M. Streppel – – D.J. Haank 24,351 24,351 C.M. Hooymans – – P.A.M. van Bommel 114,000 114,000 C.J. García Moreno Elizondo 198,520 305,400 O. Von Hauske Solis – – C.J.G. Zuiderwijk – – D.W. Sickinghe 130,000 – R.J. Routs1 n/a – M.E. van Lier-Lels1 n/a – A.H.J. Risseeuw1 n/a 50,000 M. Bischoff1 n/a 9,000 Total 466,871 502,751 1) Former member of the Supervisory Board. Number of shares at the date of step down from the Supervisory Board. The Hague, February 25, 2015 D.J. Haank C.M. Hooymans J.B.M. Streppel O. Von Hauske Solis 100 KPN — Integrated Annual Report 2014 Independent Assurance Report To: the Board of Management of Koninklijke KPN N.V. In addition to our review procedures, we have performed reasonable assurance procedures on the energy consumption and The Board of Management of Koninklijke KPN N.V. (‘KPN’) engaged net CO2 emissions data 2014 of own operations in the Netherlands us to provide assurance on certain information (‘the Sustainability (scope 1 and 2) as presented in the table on page 43. Information’) in the Integrated Annual Report 2014. Our engagement consisted of providing a combination of: A review leads to limited assurance. Limited assurance procedures are substantially less in scope than reasonable assurance procedures ýý limited assurance over the Sustainability Information in the in relation to both the risk assessment procedures, including an Chapters ‘Introduction’, ‘Strategic Review’ and ‘Report by the understanding of internal control, and the procedures performed Board of Management’ on pages 2 – 85 and the Appendices 2 in response to the assessed risks. and 3 on pages 190 – 195 (leading to a ‘conclusion’); and ýý reasonable assurance on the energy consumption and net CO2 Limitations in our scope emissions data 2014 of own operations in the Netherlands The Report contains prospective information, such as ambitions, (scope 1 and 2) on page 43 (leading to an ‘opinion’). strategy, targets, expectations and projections. Inherent to this information is that actual future results may be different from the We believe these procedures fulfill the rational objective as prospective information and therefore it may be uncertain. We do disclosed by KPN on page 192. not provide any assurance on the assumptions and feasibility of this prospective information. Our conclusion Furthermore, the following Chapters have been excluded from our Based on the procedures we have performed and the evidence we assurance scope: have obtained, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the Sustainability Information for the year ended ýý Risk management and compliance (page 68-75); and December 31, 2014, does not provide a reliable and appropriate ýý Regulatory developments (page 76-77). presentation of KPN’s policy for sustainable development, or of KPN’s activities, events and performance relating to sustainable The auditor is not expected to, and cannot, reduce audit risk development during the reporting year, in accordance with KPN to zero and cannot therefore obtain absolute assurance that the reporting criteria. sustainability information is free from material misstatement due to fraud or error. This is because there are inherent limitations of Our opinion an assurance engagement, which result in most of the assurance evidence on which the auditor bases the auditor’s opinion being Based on the procedures we have performed and the evidence we persuasive rather than conclusive. have obtained, in our opinion the energy consumption and net CO2 emissions data 2014 of own operations in the Netherlands (scope 1 KPN reporting criteria and 2) as presented in the table on page 43 of the Integrated KPN developed its sustainability reporting criteria on the basis Annual Report are, in all material respects, presented reliably of the G4 Guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), which and adequately, in accordance with KPN reporting criteria. are disclosed together with detailed information on the reporting scope and reporting process and methods (Appendix 3 – Scope, This conclusion and opinion are to be read in the context of what reporting process and materiality determination) on pages 192 – we say in the remainder of our report. 195. We consider the sustainability reporting criteria to be relevant and appropriate for our examination. The basis for our conclusion and opinion Understanding reporting and measurement methodologies What we are assuring The information in the scope of this engagement needs to be read We have reviewed the Sustainability Information in the Chapters and understood together with the reporting criteria, for which ‘Introduction’, ‘Strategic Review’ and ‘Report by the Board of KPN is solely responsible for selecting and applying. The absence Management ‘on pages 2 to 85 and the Appendices 2 and 3 on of a significant body of established practice on which to draw, pages 190 – 195 of the Integrated Annual Report 2014 for the year to evaluate and measure non-financial information allows for 2014 (hereafter: ‘the Report’) of Koninklijke KPN N.V., Den Haag. different, but acceptable, measurement techniques and can This Sustainability Information comprises a representation of affect comparability between entities and over time. KPN’s policy, activities, and performance relating to sustainable development during the reporting year 2014. The disclosures made by management with respect of the scope of the Report are included on pages 192 – 195 (Appendix 3 – Scope, reporting process and materiality determination). KPN — Integrated Annual Report 2014 101 ASSURANCE REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY INFORMATION Independent Assurance Report Our assurance approach outcomes of the stakeholder dialogue and the process for determining the material subjects, the reasonableness of Materiality estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the We set thresholds for materiality at the planning stage and overall presentation of the sustainability information; reassessed them during the engagement. These helped us to ýý evaluating the design and implementation and testing of determine the nature, timing and extent of our procedures and to the operating effectiveness of the systems and processes for evaluate the effect of identified misstatements on the information data gathering and processing of information as presented presented, both individually and in aggregate. Based on our in the Report; professional judgment, we determined specific materiality ýý interviews with management and relevant staff at corporate levels for each element of the Sustainability Information. (and business/division/local) level responsible for the sustainability strategy and policies; Areas of particular focus ýý interviews with relevant staff responsible for providing The areas of particular focus that, in our professional judgment, the information in the Report, carrying out internal control were of most significance in the assurance engagement of the procedures on the data and the consolidation of the data sustainability information, including the allocation of our in the Report; resources and effort, are identified below together with an ýý investigating internal and external documentation, in addition explanation of how we tailored our procedures to address to interviews, to determine whether the information in the these specific matters. This is not a complete list of all risks Report is adequately substantiated; and/or matters identified by our work. ýý performing analytical review of the data and trend explanations submitted for consolidation at group level; We have communicated the areas of particular focus with the ýý assessing the consistency of the sustainability information Supervisory Board. These areas were addressed in the context and the information in the Report not in scope for this of our assurance engagement of the sustainability information Assurance Report; and as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon. We do not ýý assessing whether the sustainability information has been provide a separate opinion on these areas of particular focus. prepared ‘in accordance’ with the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines version G4 of GRI. Scope 3 In 2014, KPN increased the level of disclosure emissions of its scope 3 CO2 emissions. Inherent to the In addition to the procedures mentioned above, for the energy nature of scope 3 emissions, KPN had to use consumption and net CO2 emissions data 2014 of own operations estimates and underlying assumptions to in the Netherlands (scope 1 and 2) we performed the following: determine the indirect emissions in its value chain. Our review procedures focused on ýý assessing the systems and processes for data gathering, understanding the model used by management, including testing the design, existence and the effectiveness assessing the mathematical accuracy of the of the relevant internal controls during the reporting year; calculations applied and assessing the ýý conducting analytical procedures and substantive testing underlying assumptions. procedures on the relevant data; ýý assessing the processing of other information, such as the Estimated As of 2014, KPN started reporting on the aggregation process of data into the information as presented reduced energy estimated reduced energy consumption by KPN’s in the sustainability information; and consumption by customers through the use of its products and ýý corroborating internal and external documentation to KPN customers services. KPN created an innovative model to determine whether the sustainability information is in 2014 estimate the positive impact of its products and substantiated adequately. services, while taking potential negative impacts into account. Our review procedures focused on We believe that the evidence we have obtained is sufficient and understanding the model used by management, appropriate to provide a basis for our conclusion and opinion. assessing the mathematical accuracy of the calculations applied and assessing the Professional and ethical standards applied underlying assumptions. We conducted our assurance engagement in accordance with Dutch law, including Standard 3810N ‘Assurance engagements Work done relating to sustainability reports’ (hereafter: ‘Standard 3810N’). We are required to plan and perform our work in order Our responsibilities under this standard are further described to consider the risk of material misstatement of the in the “Our responsibilities” section of this report. Sustainability Information. We are independent of KPN in accordance with the “Verordening Our main procedures included the following: inzake de onafhankelijkheid van accountants bij assuranceopdrachten” (ViO) and other relevant independence regulations ýý performing an external environment analysis and obtaining in the Netherlands. Furthermore, we have complied with the an understanding of the relevant social issues, relevant laws “Verordening gedragsen beroepsregels accountants” (VGBA) and regulations and the characteristics of the organization; and other relevant regulations. ýý evaluating the acceptability of the reporting policies and consistent application of these, such as assessment of the 102 KPN — Integrated Annual Report 2014 Responsibilities The Board of Management’s responsibilities The Board of Management of KPN is responsible for the preparation of the Report in accordance with KPN reporting criteria, including the identification of the stakeholders and the determination of material subjects. Furthermore, the Board of Management is responsible for such internal control as the Board of Management determines is necessary to enable the preparation of the Report that is free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. Our responsibilities Based on our assurance engagement in accordance with Standard 3810N, our responsibility is to: ýý express a conclusion on the Sustainability Information in the Report; and ýý express an opinion on the energy consumption and net CO2 emissions data 2014 of own operations in the Netherlands (scope 1 and 2). This requires that we comply with ethical requirements and that we plan and perform our work to obtain limited assurance about whether the report is free from material misstatement. The procedures selected depend on the auditor’s judgment, including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the Report, whether due to fraud or error. In making those risk assessments, the auditor considers internal control relevant for the preparation of the Report in order to design procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of KPN’s internal control. An assurance engagement aimed on providing limited and reasonable assurance also includes evaluating the appropriateness of the reporting framework used and the reasonableness of estimates made by management as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the Report. The Hague, February 25, 2015 PricewaterhouseCoopers Accountants N.V. Original has been signed by M. de Ridder RA KPN — Integrated Annual Report 2014 103 Financial Statements 104 KPN — Integrated Annual Report 2014 Consolidated Financial Statements 106 Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss 107 Consolidated Statement of Other Comprehensive Income 108 Consolidated Statement of Financial Position 110 Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows 111 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Group Equity 112 G eneral Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 122 N otes to the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss (1-9) 133 N otes to the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position (10-27) 155 O ther Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (28-35) Corporate Financial Statements 174 Corporate Statement of Profit or Loss 175 Corporate Statement of Financial Position 176 General Notes to the Corporate Financial Statements 177 Notes to the Corporate Statement of Financial Position Other Information 180 Independent Auditor’s Report 186 Proposed appropriation of result 186 Subsequent events 187 Legal structure KPN — Integrated Annual Report 2014 105 Key Consolidated Corporate Financial Notes to Notes to Financial Other Statements General Notes Profit or Loss Financial Position Other Notes Statements Information FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss For the year ended December 31 Amounts in millions of EUR, unless otherwise stated 2014 2013 Revenues [1] 7,999 8,443 Other income [2] 84 29 Total 8,083 8,472 Own work capitalized -86 -78 Cost of materials 728 574 Work contracted out and other expenses 3,186 3,187 Employee benefits [3] 797 1,297 Depreciation, amortization and impairments [4] 1,820 1,857 Other operating expenses [5] 443 609 Total operating expenses 6,888 7,446 Operating profit 1,195 1,026 Finance income 34 29 Finance costs -871 -754 Other financial results -66 -32 Financial income and expenses [6] -903 -757 Share of the profit/loss (-) of associates and joint ventures [12] -6 -7 Profit/Loss (-) before income tax from continuing operations 286 262 Income taxes [7] -47 31 Profit/Loss (-) for the year from continuing operations 239 293 Profit/Loss (-) for the year from discontinued operations [19] -823 -508 Profit/Loss (-) for the year -584 -215 Profit/Loss (-) attributable to non-controlling interests [21] 14 7 Profit/Loss (-) attributable to equity holders [20] -598 -222 Earnings per share after taxes attributable to equity holders for the year in EUR [8] –Basic (continuing operations) 0.04 0.07 –Fully-diluted (continuing operations) 0.04 0.07 –Basic (discontinued operations) -0.19 -0.14 –Fully-diluted (discontinued operations) -0.19 -0.14 –Basic (total, including discontinued operations) -0.15 -0.07 –Fully-diluted (total, including discontinued operations) -0.15 -0.07 [..] Bracketed numbers refer to the related Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements, which form an integral part of these Consolidated Financial Statements. 106 KPN — Integrated Annual Report 2014 Key Consolidated Corporate Financial Notes to Notes to Financial Other Statements General Notes Profit or Loss Financial Position Other Notes Statements Information Consolidated Statement of Other Comprehensive Income For the year ended December 31 Amounts in millions of EUR, unless otherwise stated 2014 2013 Profit/Loss (-) for the year -584 -215 Other comprehensive income: Items of other comprehensive income that may not be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss: Remeasurement pensions and other post-employment plans: Gains or losses (-) arising during the period [20] -41 383 Income tax [20] -9 -62 Net other comprehensive income not to be reclassified to profit or loss in subsequent periods -50 321 Items of other comprehensive income that will be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss when specific conditions are met: Cash flow hedges: Gains or losses (-) arising during the period [20] -1 -208 Income tax [20] 2 53 1 -155 Currency translation adjustments: Gains or losses (-) arising during the period [20] 2 -1 Realized loss through profit or loss 4 – 6 -1 Fair value adjustment available-for-sale financial assets: Unrealized gains or losses (-) arising during the period [13, 20] 163 8 Income tax [20] -41 – Impairment charge through profit or loss – -8 122 – Net other comprehensive income to be reclassified to profit or loss in subsequent periods 129 -156 Other comprehensive income for the year, net of income tax 79 165 Total comprehensive income for the year, net of income tax -505 -50 Total comprehensive income attributable to: Equity holders -519 -57 Non-controlling interests 14 7 Total comprehensive income for the year, net of income tax -505 -50 Total comprehensive income attributable to equity holders arises from: Continuing operations 304 445 Discontinued operations -823 -502 [..] Bracketed numbers refer to the related Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements, which form an integral part of these Consolidated Financial Statements. KPN — Integrated Annual Report 2014 107 Key Consolidated Corporate Financial Notes to Notes to Financial Other Statements General Notes Profit or Loss Financial Position Other Notes Statements Information FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Consolidated Statement of Financial Position Assets Amounts in millions of EUR December 31, 2014 December 31, 2013 NON-CURRENT ASSETS Goodwill 1,454 1,169 Licenses 1,564 1,729 Software 675 610 Other intangibles 299 135 Total intangible assets [10] 3,992 3,643 Land and buildings 569 596 Plant and equipment 5,704 4,274 Other tangible non-current assets 58 80 Assets under construction 275 390 Total property, plant and equipment [11] 6,606 5,340 Investments in associates and joint ventures [12] 42 320 Loans to associates and joint ventures [12] 19 453 Available-for-sale financial assets [13] 2,713 20 Derivative financial instruments [27] 328 117 Deferred income tax assets [7] 1,323 1,167 Trade and other receivables [14] 140 122 Total non-current assets 15,163 11,182 CURRENT ASSETS Inventories [15] 61 60 Trade and other receivables [16] 999 1,214 Income tax receivables [7] 49 1 Other current financial assets [17] 300 – Cash and cash equivalents [18] 1,976 3,946 Total current assets 3,385 5,221 Non-current assets and disposal groups classified as held for sale [19] 8 9,469 TOTAL ASSETS 18,556 25,872 [..] Bracketed numbers refer to the related Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements which form an integral part of these Consolidated Financial Statements. 108 KPN — Integrated Annual Report 2014 Key Consolidated Corporate Financial Notes to Notes to Financial Other Statements General Notes Profit or Loss Financial Position Other Notes Statements Information Group Equity and Liabilities Amounts in millions of EUR December 31, 2014 December 31, 2013 GROUP EQUITY Share capital 171 1,025 Share premium 9,847 8,993 Perpetual capital securities 1,089 1,089 Other reserves -388 -517 Retained earnings -6,146 -5,340 Equity attributable to equity holders [20] 4,573 5,250 Non-controlling interests [21] 57 53 Total Group equity 4,630 5,303 NON-CURRENT LIABILITIES Borrowings [22] 9,397 11,656 Derivative financial instruments [27] 191 753 Deferred income tax liabilities [7] 52 9 Provisions for retirement benefit obligations [23] 316 1,019 Provisions for other liabilities and charges [24] 136 163 Other payables and deferred income [25] 64 77 Total non-current liabilities 10,156 13,677 CURRENT LIABILITIES Trade and other payables [26] 2,559 2,927 Borrowings [22] 1,044 2,008 Derivative financial instruments [27] 7 10 Income tax payables [7] 79 289 Provisions for other liabilities and charges [24] 68 120 Total current liabilities 3,757 5,354 Liabilities directly associated with non-current assets and disposal groups classified as held for sale [19] 13 1,538 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 18,556 25,872 [..] Bracketed numbers refer to the related Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements which form an integral part of these Consolidated Financial Statements. KPN — Integrated Annual Report 2014 109 Key Consolidated Corporate Financial Notes to Notes to Financial Other Statements General Notes Profit or Loss Financial Position Other Notes Statements Information FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows For the year ended December 31 Amounts in millions of EUR 2014 2013 Profit before income tax from continuing operations 286 262 Adjustments for: – Net finance cost [6] 903 757 – Share-based compensation [3] 6 4 – Share of the loss of associates and joint ventures [12] 6 7 – Depreciation, amortization and impairments [4] 1,820 1,857 – Other income -2 -26 – Changes in provisions (excluding deferred taxes) -887 -191 Changes in working capital relating to: – Inventories -2 13 – Trade receivables 216 150 – Prepayments and accrued income -102 95 – Other current assets 16 21 – Trade payables -347 128 – Accruals and deferred income -33 -189 – Current liabilities (excluding short-term financing) 28 -56 Dividends received [12] 1 1 Income taxes received/paid 38 -253 Interest received/paid -705 -654 Net cash flow provided by operating activities from continuing operations 1,242 1,926 Net cash flow provided by operating activities from discontinued operations 312 927 Net cash flow provided by operating activities 1,554 2,853 Acquisition of subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures (net of acquired cash) -745 -5 Disposal of subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures -1 49 Disposal of intangibles 2 – Investments in intangible assets (excluding software) -61 -1,500 Investments in software -379 -304 Investments in property, plant and equipment -1,033 -1,312 Disposals of property, plant and equipment 4 16 Loans to associates and joint ventures -177 -287 Other current financial assets [17] -300 – Other – 15 Net cash flow used in investing activities from continuing operations -2,690 -3,328 Net cash flow provided by/used in investing activities from discontinued operations 4,163 -660 Net cash flow provided by/used in investing activities [28] 1,473 -3,988 Rights issue – 2,939 Repayment/Issuance Preference Shares B [20] -255 256 Dividends paid -94 -6 Paid coupon perpetual hybrid bonds -67 -34 Issuance perpetual hybrid bonds -1 1,085 Proceeds from borrowings [22] – 915 Repayments of borrowings and settlement of derivatives [22] -4,002 -1,142 Other -34 -33 Net cash flow used in/provided by financing activities from continuing operations -4,453 3,980 Net cash flow used in financing activities from discontinued operations -251 -172 Net cash flow used in/provided by financing activities [29] -4,704 3,808 Total net cash flow from continuing operations -5,901 2,578 Total net cash flow from discontinued operations 4,224 95 Changes in cash and cash equivalents -1,677 2,673 Net cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year [18] 3,620 947 Exchange rate differences 2 – Changes in cash and cash equivalents -1,677 2,673 Net cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year [18] 1,945 3,620 Bank overdrafts 31 326 Cash and cash equivalents [18] 1,976 3,946 [..] Bracketed numbers refer to the related Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements which form an integral part of these Consolidated Financial Statements. 110 KPN — Integrated Annual Report 2014 Key Consolidated Corporate Financial Notes to Notes to Financial Other Statements General Notes Profit or Loss Financial Position Other Notes Statements Information Consolidated Statement of Changes in Group Equity Equity Amounts in millions of Number of Perpetual attributable NonEUR, except number of subscribed Share Share capital Other Retained to equity controlling Total Group shares shares1 capital premium securities reserves earnings holders interests equity Balance as of December 31, 2012 1,431,522,482 344 6,717 – -361 -5,417 1,283 51 1,334 Profit for the year – – – – – -222 -222 7 -215 Other comprehensive income for the year – – – – -156 321 165 – 165 Total comprehensive income for the year – – – – -156 99 -57 7 -50 Rights issue 2,838,732,182 681 2,276 – – – 2,957 – 2,957 Issuance of perpetual hybrid bond – – – 1,089 – – 1,089 – 1,089 Share-based compensation [3] – – – – – 3 3 – 3 Dividend perpetual hybrid bond (net of tax) – – – – – -25 -25 – -25 Dividends paid – – – – – – – -5 -5 Total transactions with owners, recognized directly in equity 2,838,732,182 681 2,276 1,089 – -22 4,024 -5 4,019 Balance as of December 31, 2013 4,270,254,664 1,025 8,993 1,089 -517 -5,340 5,250 53 5,303 Profit for the year – – – – – -598 -598 14 -584 Other comprehensive income for the year – – – – 129 -50 79 – 79 Total comprehensive income for the year – – – – 129 -648 -519 14 -505 Share-based compensation [3] – – – – – 3 3 – 3 Reduction nominal value – -854 854 – – – – – – Dividend perpetual hybrid bond (net of tax) – – – – – -76 -76 – -76 Dividends paid – – – – – -85 -85 -9 -94 Acquisition – – – – – – – -1 -1 Total transactions with owners, recognized directly in equity – -854 854 – – -158 -158 -10 -168 Balance as of December 31, 2014 4,270,254,664 171 9,847 1,089 -388 -6,146 4,573 57 4,630 1) Subscribed ordinary shares (including treasury shares). Preference shares B were not included and classified as current liabilities (refer to Note 20). [..] Bracketed numbers refer to the related Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements which form an integral part of these Consolidated Financial Statements. The aggregate amount of deferred tax recorded directly in equity in 2014 was EUR 33 million negative (2013: EUR 41 million negative). The aggregate amount of current tax recorded in equity in 2014 was EUR 25 million positive (2013: EUR 4 million). KPN — Integrated Annual Report 2014 111 Key Consolidated Corporate Financial Notes to Notes to Financial Other Statements General Notes Profit or Loss Financial Position Other Notes Statements Information FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS General Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements General information Implications of new and amended standards and interpretations KPN is the leading telecommunications and information and The following standards have been applied in the 2014 communications technology (ICT) provider in the Netherlands, Consolidated Financial Statements: offering fixed and mobile telephony, fixed and mobile broadband ýý IAS 36 ‘Impairment of Assets’ has been amended regarding internet and TV to retail consumers. KPN is also a market leader disclosure requirements for the recoverable amount of in the Netherlands in ICT services, infrastructure and networknon-financial assets. Certain disclosure requirements of the related ICT solutions to business customers, including other recoverable amount of the cash-generating units have been telecommunications operators. In Belgium, KPN pursues a removed from IAS 36 since these are now covered by IFRS 13. challenger strategy and offers mobile telephony products The impact was limited and isolated to disclosures only. and services through BASE Company. KPN also provides ýý IAS 39 ‘Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement’ wholesale network services to third parties and operates has been amended to ensure that novation of derivatives, an IP-based infrastructure for international wholesale designated as hedge instruments, from one counterparty to customers through iBasis. a central counterparty as a consequence of law or regulation would not result in discontinuance of the hedge relationship. Koninklijke KPN N.V. (KPN or the Company) was incorporated This amendment had no impact on KPN. in 1989 and is domiciled in the Netherlands. The address of its ýý IFRS 10 ‘Consolidated Financial Statements’ establishes a single registered office is Maanplein 55, 2516 CK, The Hague. KPN’s control model that applies to all entities including special shares are listed on NYSE Euronext Amsterdam. Following the purpose entities. This new standard had no impact on KPN. delisting of KPN’s shares on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) ýý IFRS 11 ‘Joint Arrangements’ classifies joint arrangements either in 2008, KPN’s shares can be traded in the United States, only as as joint operation or joint venture by focusing on the rights and American Depository Receipts on the over-the-counter market. obligations of the parties to the arrangement rather than its legal form. This new standard had no impact on KPN. The Financial Statements as of and for the year ended December ýý IFRS 12 ‘Disclosures of Interests in Other Entities’ includes 31, 2014 of Koninklijke KPN N.V. were approved for issuance by the disclosure requirements for all forms of interests in other both the Supervisory Board and the Board of Management on entities, including joint arrangements, associates, special February 25, 2015. purpose vehicles and other off balance sheet vehicles. It is the complement of IFRS 10 and IFRS 11. The impact was limited The Financial Statements are subject to adoption by the Annual and isolated to disclosures only. General Meeting of Shareholders on April 15, 2015. The following standards have an effective date of July 1, 2014 Significant accounting policies and will be implemented as of January 1, 2015 due to the timing of their endorsement by the European Union: The significant accounting policies applied in the preparation of ýý IFRIC 21 ‘Levies’ provides guidance in addition to IAS 37 these Consolidated Financial Statements are set out below. These ‘Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets’ on policies have been consistently applied to all the years presented, how to account for levies posed by governments other than unless stated otherwise. income taxes, specifically on when to account for the liability. No material impact is expected. Basis of preparation ýý IAS 19 ‘Employee Benefits’ has been amended regarding KPN applies International Financial Reporting Standards as treatment of employee contributions in defined benefit plans. adopted by the European Union (‘IFRS’). The amendment aims to simplify the calculation of employee contributions and is not expected to affect KPN. As the corporate financial information of KPN is included in the ýý The Annual Improvements 2010-2012 and the Annual Consolidated Financial Statements, the Corporate Statement of Improvements 2011-2013 cover amendments to several Profit or Loss is presented in abbreviated format in accordance standards, none of which are expected to have a material with Article 402, Part 9, Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code. impact on KPN. The Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared under Future implications of new and amended standards the historical cost convention, except for available-for-sale financial and interpretations assets and financial assets and financial liabilities (including The following new standards and interpretations and amendments derivative instruments) at fair value through profit or loss. The to existing standards will become effective on or after January 1, Consolidated and Corporate Financial Statements are prepared 2015. Only new and amended standards with a potential impact on a going concern basis. on KPN are discussed. These standards have not been applied in preparing these 2014 Consolidated Financial Statements: Consolidated financial information, including subsidiaries, ýý IFRS 9 ‘Financial Instruments’ as issued in July 2014 is the final associates and joint ventures, has been prepared using uniform version of this new standard which will replace IAS 39 ‘Financial accounting policies for similar transactions and other events in Instruments: Recognition and Measurement’ and all previous similar circumstances. versions of IFRS 9. The standard introduces new requirements for classification and measurement, impairment and hedge Changes in accounting policies and disclosures accounting of financial instruments. IFRS 9 is effective as of January The International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) continues 1, 2018 and must be applied retrospectively although comparative to issue new standards and interpretations, and amendments information is not mandatory. However, as the standard has not to existing standards. KPN applies these new standards when yet been endorsed by the European Commission, it is uncertain effective and endorsed by the European Union. KPN has not when it needs to be applied by KPN. IFRS 9 is expected to have an opted for early adoption for any of these standards. impact on the classification and measurement of KPN’s financial assets and liabilities. KPN is currently reviewing the extent of the impact of this new standard. 112 KPN — Integrated Annual Report 2014 Key Consolidated Corporate Financial Notes to Notes to Financial Other Statements General Notes Profit or Loss Financial Position Other Notes Statements Information ýý IFRS 15 ‘Revenue from Contracts with Customers’. This standard and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over was issued in May 2014 and is effective as of January 1, 2017. the entity (‘control’). Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the Endorsement is expected in 2015. The standard introduces new date on which control is obtained by KPN and are deconsolidated guidance on the recognition and measurement requirements of from the date on which KPN’s control ceases. All intercompany revenues. The standard applies to revenue from contracts with transactions, balances and unrealized results on transactions customers and also provides a model for the sale of some with subsidiaries are eliminated. non-financial assets that are not an output of a company’s ordinary business activities (such as the sale of property, plant Intercompany transactions, balances and unrealized gains and and equipment or intangibles). IFRS 15 provides more detailed losses on transactions between group companies are eliminated. requirements than the current standards. KPN is currently reviewing the extent of the impact of this new standard in Changes in ownership interests in subsidiaries without change anticipation of endorsement. KPN mainly expects an impact on of control the timing of revenue recognition due to the removal of the cash Transactions with non-controlling interests that do not result restriction rule currently applied in revenue arrangements with in loss of control are accounted for as equity transactions. The multiple deliverables and on the accounting treatment of dealer difference between fair value of any consideration paid and commissions. Due to potential mismatches between timing of the relevant share acquired of the carrying value of net assets revenue recognition required by the new standard and receipt of the subsidiary is recorded in equity. Gains or losses on disposals of corresponding cash flows, KPN also expects an impact on its to non-controlling interests are also recorded in equity. balance sheet (recognition of contract assets and contract liabilities). Upon implementation of IFRS 15, the disclosures in Disposal of subsidiaries KPN’s Integrated Annual Report will be expanded to include When control ceases, any retained interest in the entity is remeasured required information such as movement schedules for recognized to its fair value at the date when control is lost, with the change in contract assets and contract liabilities, information about carrying amount recognized in the Consolidated Statement of Profit performance obligations and information on key judgments and or Loss. The fair value is the initial carrying amount for the purposes estimates applied in recognition and measurement of revenues. of subsequently accounting for the retained interest as an associate, KPN does not intend to early adopt this standard and expects to joint venture or financial asset. In addition, any amounts previously apply IFRS 15 in its Integrated Annual Report 2017 provided timely recognized in Other Comprehensive Income in respect of that entity endorsement of the standard by the European Commission. are accounted for as if KPN had directly disposed of the related assets ýý The Annual Improvements 2012-2014 cover amendments to or liabilities. This may mean that amounts previously recognized in several standards, none of which are expected to have a Other Comprehensive Income are reclassified to profit or loss. material impact on KPN’s financial information. The Annual Improvements were issued in September 2014 and are effective Associates as of January 1, 2016; endorsement is pending. Associates are investments in entities in which KPN can exert ýý IFRS 10 ‘Consolidated Financial Statement’ and IAS 28 significant influence but which KPN does not control, generally ‘Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures’ have been by KPN having between 20% and 50% of the voting rights. These amended to remove inconsistencies between the standards entities are accounted for using the equity method and are on how to account for the loss of control of a subsidiary that is initially recognized at cost. Their carrying value includes goodwill contributed to an associate or a joint venture. The amendments identified upon acquisition, net of any accumulated impairment. were issued in September 2014 and are effective as of January 1, 2016; endorsement is pending. KPN does not expect a KPN’s share of post-acquisition profits or losses is recognized material impact on its financial performance. in the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss, and its share of ýý IAS 16 ‘Property, Plant and Equipment’ and IAS 38 ‘Intangible post-acquisition movements in Other Comprehensive Income is Assets’ have been amended to clarify the acceptable methods recognized in the Consolidated Statement of Other Comprehensive of depreciation and amortization. The principle for the basis Income with a corresponding adjustment to the carrying amount of depreciation and amortization is the expected pattern of of the investment. When KPN’s share of losses in an associate consumption of the future economic benefits of an asset. equals or exceeds its interest in the associate, including any other These amendments were issued in May 2014 and are effective receivables for which settlement is neither planned nor likely to as of January 1, 2016; endorsement is pending. KPN does not occur in the foreseeable future, KPN does not recognize further expect an impact on its financial performance. losses, unless KPN has obligations to or made payments on behalf ýý IFRS 11 ‘Joint Arrangements’ has been amended to include new of the associate. Unrealized results on transactions with associates guidance on how to account for the acquisition of an interest are eliminated to the extent of KPN’s share in associates. in a joint operation that constitutes a business. The amendment was issued in May 2014 and is effective as of January 1, 2016; At each reporting date, KPN determines if there is any objective endorsement is pending. Based on current practice, KPN does evidence that the associate is impaired. An impairment, being the not expect a material impact. difference between the recoverable amount of the associate and its carrying value, is recognized adjacent to ‘Share of the profit Basis of consolidation (loss) of associates and joint ventures’ in the Consolidated KPN’s Consolidated Financial Statements include the financial Statement of Profit or Loss. results of its subsidiaries and incorporate KPN’s share of the results from associates and joint ventures. Profits and losses resulting from upstream and downstream transactions between KPN and its associate are recognized in Subsidiaries the KPN’s Financial Statements only to the extent of unrelated Subsidiaries are all entities for which KPN is exposed to, or has investors’ interests in the associates. Unrealized losses are rights to, variable returns from its involvement with the entity eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence of an KPN — Integrated Annual Report 2014 113 Key Consolidated Corporate Financial Notes to Notes to Financial Other Statements General Notes Profit or Loss Financial Position Other Notes Statements Information FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS General Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements impairment of the asset transferred. Accounting policies of Segment reporting associates have been changed where necessary to ensure Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the consistency with KPN’s policies. internal reporting provided to the Chief Executive Officer (CEO), who is the Chief Operating Decision Maker according to IFRS 8 Joint arrangements ‘Operating Segments’. Changes to KPN’s segment reporting are Joint arrangements are classified either as joint operations or joint disclosed in Note 35. ventures depending on the contractual rights and obligations of each investor. KPN has assessed the nature of its joint Foreign currency translation arrangements and determined them to be joint ventures. Joint Functional and presentation currency ventures are accounted for using the equity method and are These Financial Statements are presented in Euro (EUR), which is initially recognized at cost. The carrying value is subsequently KPN’s presentation currency and functional currency. Each entity adjusted to recognized KPN’s share of the post-acquisition profits within the KPN Group has its own functional currency which is or losses and movements in Other Comprehensive Income. determined based on the primary economic environment in which the entity operates. All values are rounded to millions unless The carrying value of joint ventures includes goodwill identified stated otherwise. upon acquisition, net of any accumulated impairment. Transactions and balances When KPN’s share of losses in a joint venture equals or exceeds Transactions in foreign currencies are translated into the its interest in the joint venture, KPN does not recognize further functional currency of the recording entity using the exchange losses, unless KPN has obligations to or made payments on rates applicable at the dates of the transactions. Monetary assets behalf of the joint venture. Unrealized results on transactions and liabilities resulting from such transactions are translated at with joint ventures are eliminated to the extent of KPN’s share the applicable rates at the reporting date. These exchange rate in joint ventures. Accounting policies have been changed where differences are recognized in the Consolidated Statement of Profit necessary to ensure consistency with KPN’s policies. or Loss except when deferred in the Consolidated Statement of Other Comprehensive Income as qualifying cash flow hedges and Business combinations qualifying net investment hedges. Exchange rate differences on KPN uses the acquisition method of accounting to account for non-monetary assets and liabilities are reported as part of the business combinations. The consideration paid is measured at fair value gain or loss from that asset or liability. Exchange rate the fair value of the assets transferred, equity instruments issued differences arising from the translation of the net investment in and liabilities incurred or assumed at the date of exchange. The foreign entities, of borrowings and other currency instruments consideration paid includes the fair value of any contingent assets designated as hedges of such investments are recognized in the or liabilities resulting from the arrangement. Identifiable assets Consolidated Statement of Other Comprehensive Income. acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed are measured at their fair values at the acquisition date. When a Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a business combination is achieved in stages, any previously held foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity equity interest is remeasured at its acquisition date fair value and translated at the closing rate at the Statement of Financial and any resulting gain or loss is recognized in the Consolidated Position date. Statement of Profit or Loss and the equity interest is then considered in the determination of goodwill. Subsidiaries The results and financial position of subsidiaries that have a Contingent considerations are recognized at fair value at functional currency other than KPN’s presentation currency (Euro) acquisition date. Subsequent changes to the fair value of are translated as follows: contingent considerations deemed to be an asset or liability ýý assets and liabilities for each financial position presented are are recognized in accordance with IAS 39 ‘Financial Instruments: translated at the closing rate at the date of that financial position; Recognition and Measurement’ either in the Consolidated ýý income and expenses for each statement of profit or loss are Statement of Profit or Loss or as a charge to the Consolidated translated at average exchange rates; and Statement of Other Comprehensive Income. Contingent ýý all resulting exchange differences are recognized in the considerations classified as equity are not remeasured and Consolidated Statement of Other Comprehensive Income (in the subsequent settlement is accounted for within equity. currency translation reserve, a separate component within equity). For each business combination, KPN elects to recognize any Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition non-controlling interest in the acquiree either at fair value or at of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the the proportionate share in the acquiree’s net assets. Acquisitionforeign entity and translated at the closing rate at the financial related costs are expensed as incurred. position date. The excess of the consideration paid, non-controlling interests Significant accounting estimates, judgments and assumptions recognized and the acquisition date fair value of any previous The preparation of these financial statements requires management equity interests in the acquiree over the fair value of KPN’s share to make estimates, judgments and assumptions that affect the of the net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill. If negative reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the reported amounts of goodwill occurs in case of a bargain purchase, the difference is revenue and expenses during the period as well as the information recognized directly in the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss. disclosed and the contingent liabilities. For KPN’s significant accounting estimates, judgments and assumptions, reference is made to the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 114 KPN — Integrated Annual Report 2014 Key Consolidated Corporate Financial Notes to Notes to Financial Other Statements General Notes Profit or Loss Financial Position Other Notes Statements Information The accounting estimates, judgments and assumptions deemed Sales of peripheral and other equipment are recognized when significant to KPN’s financial statements relate to: all significant risks and rewards of ownership of the goods are ýý the determination of deferred tax assets for losses carry transferred to the buyer, which is normally at the date the equipment forward and provisions for tax contingencies (see Note 7); is delivered to and accepted by the customer. Services regarding ýý the determination of fair value less costs to sell and value in designing, building, deploying and managing ICT solutions are use of cash-generating units for goodwill impairment testing provided on a time and material basis or as a fixed-price contract (see Note 10); with contract terms generally ranging from less than one year to three ýý the determination of fair values of net assets acquired in years. Revenue from time and material contracts is recognized at the business combinations (see Note 31); contractual rates as labor hours are delivered and direct expenses are ýý the depreciation rates for the copper and fiber network incurred. Revenue from contracts involving design, build and deploy included within property, plant and equipment (see Note 11); services is recognized under the percentage-of-completion (POC) ýý the assumptions used to determine the fair value of the call/put method unless the outcome of the contract cannot be estimated arrangements of Reggefiber Group BV (see Notes 12, 27 and 30); reliably. Under the POC method, revenue is recognized based on ýý the assumptions used to determine the provision for retirement the costs incurred to date as a percentage of the total estimated costs benefit obligations and periodic pension costs, such as discount to fulfill the contract. Revenue from fixed-price contracts involving rate, mortality rates and benefit increases (see Note 23); managed services is recognized in the period the services are ýý the more likely than not assessment and the reliable provided using a straight-line basis over the term of the contract. determination of the financial impact required to recognize a When the outcome of the contract cannot be estimated reliably, provision for idle cables, which are part of a public electronic revenue is recognized only to the extent of contract costs incurred. communications network (see Notes 24 and 32); ýý the assumptions used to determine the fair value less costs KPN presents revenue gross of costs when the Group acts as the to sell of assets and liabilities held for sale, including disposal principal in the arrangement and net of costs when the Group groups (see Note 19); acts as agent. ýý the assessments of exposure to credit risk and financial market risks (see Note 30); and Revenue arrangements with multiple deliverables ýý the determination of the expected deal proceeds for the sale Arrangements with multiple deliverables are divided into separate of E-Plus, including the Net Debt/Working Capital settlement units of accounting if the deliverables in the arrangement meet (see Note 19). recognition criteria of IFRS. Revenues from multiple deliverables arrangements are allocated to the identified separate units of During 2014, the pension plans have been amended, resulting in accounting based on their relative fair values. If the fair value of (amongst others) a lower effect from accounting estimates, judgments the delivered item exceeds the cash received at the time of delivery, and assumptions. Refer to Note 23 for more information. revenue is recognized up to the non-contingent cash received. Actual results in the future may differ from the estimates applied. Any connection fee proceeds not allocated to the delivered Estimates and judgments are being evaluated continuously and are equipment are deferred upon connection and recognized as based on historic experience and other factors, including expectations service revenue over the customer contract period unless KPN has of future events thought to be reasonable under the circumstances. the obligation to continue providing services beyond that period, in which case the expected customer service period is used. Statement of Profit or Loss For wireless services, any consideration allocated to the sale Revenue recognition of peripheral and other equipment, up to the amount of nonRevenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration contingent cash received, is recognized as revenue when all received or receivable for the sale of goods and services. Revenue significant risks and rewards of ownership of the equipment is recognized when it is probable that the economic benefits are transferred to the buyer. associated with a transaction will flow to KPN and the amount of revenue and the associated costs can be measured reliably. For multiple deliverable arrangements that comprise only one unit Revenues are presented net of value-added tax, rebates and of accounting and include an upfront connection fee, amounts discounts and after eliminating sales within the Group. representing connection fees are deferred and recognized pro rata. Deferred connection fees are amortized over the customer Traffic fees are charged at an agreed tariff for a fixed duration of contract period. Costs associated with these arrangements time or capacity and are recognized as revenue based upon usage are expensed as incurred. of KPN’s network and facilities. Other income Recognition of deferred revenue related to airtime is based on Other income includes gains on the sale of property, plant and the expected usage of airtime per proposition. equipment and gains on the disposal of subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures as well as other gains not related to KPN’s Subscription fees and fees received for handset leases generally operating activities. consist of periodic charges and are recognized as revenue over the associated subscription period. One-off connection fees and other initial fees are not a separate unit of accounting and their accounting treatment is therefore dependent on the other deliverables in the sales arrangements (see revenue arrangements with multiple deliverables). KPN — Integrated Annual Report 2014 115 Key Consolidated Corporate Financial Notes to Notes to Financial Other Statements General Notes Profit or Loss Financial Position Other Notes Statements Information FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS General Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Leases a component of a multiple deliverable arrangement containing Leases where KPN as lessor retains a significant portion of the for example the sale of a handset combined with a subscription. risks and rewards of ownership of the leased asset are classified as In both cases, the handset is expensed when the costs are operating leases. The assets remain on the Consolidated Statement incurred. When a handset is leased out, it depends on the type of Financial Position and are depreciated over the asset’s useful of lease (operating or finance) whether the costs are expensed as life. The lease payments received from the lessee are recognized incurred or capitalized and depreciated over the expected lifetime as revenue on a straight-line basis over the lease period. (see ‘leases’ above). Payments made by KPN as lessee under operating leases are Borrowing costs charged to the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss on Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction a straight-line basis over the period of the lease (net of any or production of qualifying assets are added to the cost of those incentives received from the lessor). If a sale-and-leaseback assets, until such time as the assets are substantially ready for transaction results in an operating lease, the profit or loss is intended use or sale. Qualifying assets are assets that necessarily calculated using the fair value of the assets sold and recognized take a substantial period of time to get ready for their intended use in the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss immediately. or sale. KPN’s qualifying assets mainly are its network (included in property, plant and equipment) as well as operating licenses Leases where KPN as lessee has assumed substantially all risks (included under intangible fixed assets) which are dependent on a and rewards of ownership are classified as finance leases. KPN related network. Borrowing costs related to licenses are capitalized then recognizes the leased assets on the Consolidated Statement during the construction phase of the related network up to the time of Financial Position at the lower of the fair value and the present that services can be first rendered on a commercial basis. value of the minimum lease payments. The corresponding rental obligations, net of finance charges, are included in other longAll other borrowing costs are recognized in profit or loss in the term payables in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position. period in which they are incurred. Property, plant and equipment acquired under finance leases are depreciated over the shorter of the asset’s useful life and the lease Taxation term. If a sale-and-leaseback transaction results in a finance lease, Current income tax any excess of sale proceeds over the carrying amount is deferred The current corporate income tax charge recognized in the and recognized in the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss is calculated in accordance over the lease term. with the prevailing tax regulations and rates, taking into account non-taxable income and non-deductible expenses. The current In case KPN acts as lessor in a finance lease, the transaction is income tax expense reflects the amount for the current reporting accounted for as a normal sale and the present value of the lease period that KPN expects to recover from or pay to the tax authorities. payments is recognized as a receivable. The difference between Current income tax related to items recognized directly in equity is the gross receivable and the present value of the receivable is recorded in equity and not in the Consolidated Statement of Profit or deferred and recognized as interest over the lease term. Loss. KPN’s management periodically evaluates positions taken in the tax returns regarding situations in which applicable tax regulations Share-based compensation are subject to interpretation and establishes provisions when KPN operates a number of share-based compensation plans, both deemed appropriate. equityand cash-settled. For equity-settled plans, the fair value of options or shares granted to employees is measured at grant date. Deferred income taxes For cash-settled plans, the fair value of the liability for the awards Deferred income tax positions are recognized for temporary granted is remeasured at each reporting date and at settlement. differences between the tax basis of assets and liabilities and The costs of share-based compensation plans are determined their carrying values in KPN’s Consolidated Statement of based on the fair value of the options and shares and the number Financial Position. of options or shares expected to vest. On each Statement of Financial Position date, KPN determines whether it is necessary Deferred tax assets are recognized for all deductible temporary to revise the expectation of the number of options or shares that differences, the carry forward of unused tax credits and any will vest. The fair value is recognized as costs in the Consolidated unused tax losses. Deferred tax assets are recognized only to Statement of Profit or Loss over the vesting period of the options the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be or shares against an increase in equity in case of equity-settled available against which the temporary differences can be utilized. share-based compensation plans and against recognition of a Both the recognized and unrecognized deferred tax assets are liability in case of cash-settled share-based compensation plans. reassessed at each reporting date. No deferred tax assets are For details on KPN’s share-based compensation plans, see Note 3. recognized for deductible temporary differences that arise from initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not Operating expenses a business combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects Operating expenses are measured and recognized based on the neither the profit or loss reported in the Consolidated Statement accounting principles that are applied to related assets or of Profit or Loss nor the taxable profit or loss. Deferred tax assets liabilities and are allocated to the year in which they are incurred. are recorded for deductible temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, associates and interests in joint Subscriber acquisition and retention costs are expensed as ventures and are recorded only to the extent that it is probable incurred. The most common subscriber acquisition costs are cost that the temporary differences will reverse in the foreseeable for handsets and dealer fees. The cost of a handset is expensed future and taxable profit will be available against which the when the handset is sold. The sale can be an individual sale or temporary differences can be utilized. 116 KPN — Integrated Annual Report 2014 Key Consolidated Corporate Financial Notes to Notes to Financial Other Statements General Notes Profit or Loss Financial Position Other Notes Statements Information Deferred tax liabilities are recognized for all taxable temporary can be offered (available for use). The amortization period for differences except when they arise from the initial recognition licenses equals the useful life, but is limited to the expiration date of goodwill or an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a of the licenses. Licenses are reviewed for impairment whenever business combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects events or changes in circumstances indicate that the book value of neither the profit or loss reported in the Consolidated Statement the asset concerned may not be recoverable. An impairment loss is of Profit or Loss nor the taxable profit or loss. Also, no deferred recognized for the amount by which the book value of the licenses tax liabilities are recorded for taxable temporary differences exceeds its recoverable amount. The recoverable amount is defined associated with investments in subsidiaries, associates and as the higher of an asset’s fair value less cost to sell and its value in interests in joint ventures when the timing of the reversal of the use. Impairments are reversed if and to the extent that the temporary differences can be controlled and it is probable that the impairment no longer exists. temporary differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future. Licenses not yet available for use are tested annually for Deferred tax positions are stated at nominal value and are impairment or whenever KPN has an indication that the licenses measured at the corporate income tax rates KPN expects to may be impaired. Licenses are tested as part of a cash-generating be applicable in the year when the asset is realized or liability unit as licenses do not generate independent cash flows. is settled based on enacted or substantially enacted tax laws. Software Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are netted if there is Internally developed and acquired software, not being an integral a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against part of property, plant and equipment, is capitalized on the basis current tax liabilities, deferred income tax assets and deferred of the costs incurred, which include direct costs and directly income tax liabilities relate to income taxes levied by the same attributable overhead costs incurred. During the development phase, taxation authority on the same taxable entity and there is an interest expenses incurred are capitalized as part of qualifying assets intention to settle on a net basis. if material. Software is amortized over the estimated useful life. Amortization commences when software is available for use. Statement of Financial Position Software is reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes Intangible assets in circumstances indicate that the book value may no longer be Goodwill recoverable. An impairment loss is recognized for the amount The excess of the consideration transferred over the fair value of by which the asset’s book value exceeds its recoverable amount. the identifiable net assets acquired in a business combination is Impairments are reversed if and to the extent that the impairment recorded as goodwill. Goodwill on acquisitions of subsidiaries is no longer exists. The recoverable amount is defined as the higher included in intangible assets. Goodwill on acquisition of associates of an asset’s fair value less cost to sell and its value in use. and joint ventures is included in investments in associates and joint ventures. Other intangibles Other intangible fixed assets such as customer relationships and Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units for the purpose of trade names acquired in business combinations are capitalized at impairment testing. The allocation is made to those cash-generating their fair values at acquisition date and are amortized using the units or groups of cash-generating units that are expected to straight-line method. benefit from the synergies of the business combination in which the goodwill arose, irrespective of whether other assets or liabilities Other intangible fixed assets are reviewed for impairment whenever of the acquiree are assigned to those cash-generating units. events or changes in circumstances indicate that the book value may no longer be recoverable. An impairment loss is recognized for the Goodwill is carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses and amount by which the asset’s book value exceeds its recoverable tested for impairment annually or whenever KPN has an indication amount. Impairments are reversed if and to the extent that the that the goodwill may be impaired. Goodwill is impaired if the impairment no longer exists. The recoverable amount is defined as recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit or groups of the higher of an asset’s fair value less cost to sell and its value in use. cash-generating units to which it is allocated is lower than the book value of the cash-generating unit or groups of cash-generating The amortization period of the intangible assets are as follows: units concerned. The recoverable amount is defined as the higher of the fair value less cost to sell and the value in use of the cashCategory Amortization period generating units concerned. Following the restrictions of IFRS, Goodwill No amortization impairment losses on goodwill are not reversed. Licenses 5 to 20 years Software 3 to 5 years In case of disposal of a business which was part of a cash-generating Other intangible assets 4 to 20 years unit, goodwill is allocated to that business on a relative fair value basis and included in the carrying amount of the business when Tangible assets determining the result on the sale. Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment are valued at cost less depreciation Licenses and impairment. The cost includes direct costs (materials, direct Licenses are valued at cost less amortization and impairment. The labor and work contracted out), directly attributable overhead costs cost value of a qualifying asset may include capitalized borrowing and may include borrowing costs capitalized as part of qualifying costs related to qualifying assets incurred during the construction asset, recorded during the construction phase of property, plant phase of the related asset. Amortization is calculated using the and equipment components. straight-line method and is commenced at the date that services KPN — Integrated Annual Report 2014 117 Key Consolidated Corporate Financial Notes to Notes to Financial Other Statements General Notes Profit or Loss Financial Position Other Notes Statements Information FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS General Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Asset retirement obligations are capitalized as part of the cost instruments under IAS 39 ‘Financial Instruments: Recognition and of tangible fixed assets and expensed as either depreciation Measurement’. Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss over the asset’s estimated useful life or as impairment charges. are recognized in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position The estimated useful lives of the principal property, plant at their fair value with net changes in the fair value presented as and equipment categories are as follows: finance costs (in case of negative net changes to the fair value) or finance income (in case of positive net changes to the fair value) Category Depreciation period in the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss. Land No depreciation Buildings 14 to 33 years Loans and receivables Network equipment 3 to 7 years Loans and receivables are financial assets with fixed or Network infrastructure 10 to 30 years determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market Vehicles 10 years and created by KPN by providing money, goods or services directly Office equipment 4 to 10 years to a debtor, other than: ýý those KPN intends to sell immediately or in the short term, Property, plant and equipment is depreciated using the straightwhich are classified as held for trading; and line method, based on estimated useful life, taking into account ýý those for which KPN may not recover substantially all of its residual value. Land is not depreciated. Property, plant and initial investment, other than because of credit deterioration, equipment is reviewed for impairment whenever events or which are classified as available-for-sale. changes in circumstances indicate that the book value of the assets concerned may not be recoverable. An impairment loss After initial measurement, loans and receivables are carried at is recognized for the amount by which the asset’s book value amortized cost using the effective interest rate, which may equal exceeds its recoverable amount. Impairments are reversed if cost if there is no maturity, less an allowance for uncollectibility. and to the extent that the impairment no longer exists. The The amortized cost is calculated by taking into account any recoverable amount is defined as the higher of an asset’s fair discounts or premiums on acquisition and transactions costs. value less cost to sell and its value in use. The effective interest rate amortization is recognized in the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss under finance income Subsequent costs such as costs for replacement of network or finance costs. components are included in the asset’s carrying amount or recognized as a separate asset, as appropriate, only when it is Loans and receivables are included in current assets, except for probable that KPN will receive future economic benefits associated maturities greater than 12 months after the Statement of Financial with the item and the cost can be measured reliably. The carrying Position date. Loans and receivables are included in Loans to amounts of replaced assets are derecognized. All other repairs and associates and joint ventures and in Trade and other receivables maintenance costs are recognized in profit or loss when incurred. in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position. See also Notes 12, 14, 16 and 30. The assets’ residual values and useful lives are reviewed at least annually and adjusted if appropriate. Held-to-maturity investments Non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable Financial assets payments and fixed maturities are classified as held-to-maturity KPN’s financial assets include investments in companies other when KPN has the intention and ability to hold them to maturity. than subsidiaries and associates, financial receivables held for After initial measurement, held to maturity investments are investment purposes and other securities. At initial recognition, measured at amortized cost using the effective interest rate, less KPN classifies its financial assets in one of the following categories: impairment. Amortized cost is calculated by taking into account ýý Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss; any discount or premium on acquisition and fees or costs that ýý Loans and receivables; are an integral part of the effective interest rate. The effective ýý Held-to-maturity investments; and interest rate amortization is included as finance income in the ýý Available-for-sale financial assets. Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss. Losses arising from impairment are recognized in the Consolidated Statement of The classification depends on the purpose for which the financial Profit or Loss as finance costs. assets were acquired. Management determines the classification of the financial assets at initial recognition and assesses the Available-for-sale financial assets designation at every reporting date. All financial assets are initially KPN’s available-for-sale financial assets include equity investments. recognized at fair value plus transaction costs attributable to the KPN intends to hold these assets for an indefinite (undefined) acquisition of the asset if a financial asset is not recorded at fair period of time and has therefore not classified the assets as held value through profit or loss. Subsequent measurement depends for trading nor has it designated the assets at fair value through on the classification of the financial asset. profit or loss. Available-for-sale financial assets are carried at fair value with unrealized gains and losses (except for impairment Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss losses) recognized in the Consolidated Statement of Other This category has two subcategories: financial assets held for Comprehensive Income until the financial asset is derecognized, trading and those designated at fair value through profit or loss at which time the cumulative gain or loss previously recognized at inception. Financial assets held for trading are classified in this in the Consolidated Statement of Other Comprehensive Income category when acquired principally for the purpose of selling in is taken to the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss for the the short term or if so designated by management. Derivatives, period. Impairment losses incurred are recognized directly in including separated embedded derivatives, are classified as held the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss for the period. for trading except when they are designated as effective hedge 118 KPN — Integrated Annual Report 2014 Key Consolidated Corporate Financial Notes to Notes to Financial Other Statements General Notes Profit or Loss Financial Position Other Notes Statements Information For information on fair values of quoted and unquoted Inventories investments, refer to Note 30. Inventories of resources, parts, tools and measuring instruments, and finished goods are valued at the lower of cost or net realizable Derivative financial instruments and hedging activities value. The cost of inventories is determined using the weighted Derivative financial instruments are initially recognized at average cost. Net realizable value is the estimated selling price fair value. Subsequently, KPN measures all derivative financial in the ordinary course of business less applicable variable instruments based on fair values derived from market prices of selling expenses. the instruments or valuation techniques such as discounted cash flows. Gains and losses arising from changes in the fair value of the Losses on the sale of handsets which are sold for less than instruments are recognized in the Consolidated Statement of Profit cost is only recorded when the sale occurs if the normal resale or Loss as finance cost (in case of negative net changes to the fair value is higher than the cost of the handset. If the normal resale value) or finance income (in case of positive net changes to the fair value is lower than costs, the difference is recognized as value) during the period in which they arise to the extent that the impairment immediately. derivatives have no hedging designation or they are ineffective. Transition costs relating to fixed-price contracts involving managed In general, KPN designates derivatives related to loans as ICT services are capitalized and subsequently recognized in the either cash flow hedges or fair value hedges. KPN applies hedge Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss on a straight-line basis accounting as this recognizes the offsetting effects on profit or during the period the services are provided, taking into account loss of changes in the fair values of the hedging instrument and the number of office seats included in the service contract during the hedged item (borrowings) and/or forecasted transactions. the term of the contract. Transition costs consist primarily of the labor and other cost of personnel directly engaged in performing At the inception of transactions, KPN documents the relationship the transition, third party services, products and other cost which between the derivative and hedged item (such as the underlying will be charged to the customer. Transition costs are capitalized loan), as well as the objective of the risk management and the if it is probable that they will be recovered and are classified strategy for undertaking transactions. In the documentation, under inventories. it is also stated whether the hedge relationship is expected to be effective – at inception and on an ongoing basis – and how Trade and other receivables the effectiveness is tested. Receivables are initially recognized at fair value, and subsequently measured at amortized cost using the effective interest rate Changes in the fair value of an effective derivative, which is method less provision for impairment. A provision for impairment designated as a fair value hedge and qualifies as such, along of trade receivables is established when there is objective evidence with the gain or loss on the hedged item that is attributable to the that KPN will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the hedged risk, are recorded in the Consolidated Statement of Profit original terms of the receivables. The amount of the provision is the or Loss as finance cost (in case of negative changes to the fair value) difference between the carrying amount and the present value of or finance income (in case of positive net changes to the fair value). the estimated future cash flows, discounted at the original effective interest rate. The provision is set up through the Consolidated Changes in the fair value of an effective derivative, which is Statement of Profit or Loss (as other operating expenses). When designated as a cash flow hedge and qualifies as such, are a trade receivable is uncollectible, it is written off against the recorded in the Consolidated Statement of Other Comprehensive allowance account for trade receivables. Subsequent recoveries Income for the effective part, until the profit or loss are affected of amounts previously written off are credited against other by the variability in cash flows of the designated hedged item. operating expenses in the Consolidated Statement of Profit The ineffective part of the cash flow hedge is recognized in the or Loss. See Notes 14 and 16 for further information on KPN’s Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss as finance cost (in case trade and other receivables. of negative changes to the fair value) or finance income (in case of positive net changes to the fair value). Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand, deposits held If an underlying transaction has ceased to be an effective hedge or in at call with banks, and other short-term highly liquid investments case of early redemption of the hedged item, KPN discontinues hedge with original maturities of three months or less. Bank overdrafts accounting prospectively which means that subsequent changes in are included within borrowings in current liabilities on the the fair value are recognized in the Consolidated Statement of Profit Consolidated Statement of Financial Position and are not or Loss, under ‘finance income’ or ‘finance costs’. The cumulative deducted from cash and cash equivalents. amount recorded in the Consolidated Statement of Other Comprehensive Income is released in profit or loss. Non-current assets and disposal groups held for sale Non-current assets and disposal groups classified as held for The full fair value of the derivatives is classified as a non-current sale as well as liabilities directly associated herewith are stated asset or liability if the remaining maturity of the hedged item is at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell more than 12 months and as a current asset or liability if the if their carrying amount is recovered principally through a sale remaining maturity is less than 12 months. transaction rather than through continuing use. If fixed assets are transferred to held for sale, depreciation and amortization ceases. Refer to Note 27 on KPN’s derivative financial instruments and A disposal group classifies as a ‘discontinued operation’ based on Note 30 on KPN’s financial risks. its significance to the KPN Group. See Note 19 for further information on KPN’s non-current assets and disposal groups held for sale. KPN — Integrated Annual Report 2014 119 Key Consolidated Corporate Financial Notes to Notes to Financial Other Statements General Notes Profit or Loss Financial Position Other Notes Statements Information FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS General Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Equity recognized in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position KPN’s authorized share capital consists of ordinary shares at their fair value with net changes in the fair value presented as which are classified as equity and preference shares B which are finance costs or income in the Consolidated Statement of Profit classified as short-term liabilities (Note 20). The surplus paid by or Loss. KPN has not designated financial liabilities at fair value shareholders above the nominal value of shares is recognized as through profit or loss. share premium. Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares or options are shown in the Consolidated Statement Loans and borrowings of Other Comprehensive Income as a deduction, net of tax, from After initial recognition, loans and borrowings are subsequently the proceeds. carried at amortized cost; any difference between the proceeds (net of transaction costs) and the redemption value is recognized in Equity instruments and other financial instruments with a the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss over the period of the long-term nature are classified based on their specific nature, borrowings using the effective interest method. The amortized terms and characteristics. Refer to Note 22 for disclosures on cost is calculated by taking into account any discounts or premiums KPN’s accounting of the perpetual hybrid bonds issued. The on acquisition or issuance and transaction costs. The effective consideration paid by KPN for the acquisition of its own equity interest rate amortization is recognized in the Consolidated instruments (treasury shares) is deducted from other reserves at Statement of Profit or Loss under finance costs. trade date until those shares are canceled, reissued or disposed of. Upon subsequent sale or reissue of such shares, any consideration Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless KPN has an received is included in other reserves. unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least 12 months after the Statement of Financial Position date. KPN’s Group equity is divided into two categories: equity attributable to equity holders and to non-controlling interests. When bonds are repurchased with the issue of new bonds, the The first category refers to KPN’s owners, whereas non-controlling expenses related to the old bonds, including tender premiums, interests represent shares issued by a subsidiary of KPN to the are expensed as incurred unless the new bonds are placed with shareholders outside the Group. the same holders and the change in the net present value of the cash flows is less than 10%. In the latter case, these expenses are Transactions with non-controlling interests are treated as transactions capitalized and amortized over the term of the new bonds. with equity holders of KPN. For purchases of equity instruments from non-controlling interests, the difference between any consideration This category applies to KPN’s borrowings (Note 22), other paid and the carrying amount of the non-controlling interest of the payables (Note 25) and trade and other payables (Note 26). subsidiary acquired is recorded in equity. Since KPN already controls the acquired entity, no additional purchase price allocation is Offsetting financial assets and liabilities performed. Gains or losses on disposal of a non-controlling Financial assets and liabilities are offset and reported on a net interest in a subsidiary are also recorded in equity. basis on KPN’s Consolidated Statement of Financial Position only when there is a legally enforceable right to offset the recognized Dividends to be distributed to the equity holders are recognized amounts and there is an intention either to settle on a net basis as a liability in the period in which the dividends are approved or to realize the asset and settle the liability simultaneously. by the shareholders. Provisions for retirement benefit obligations Financial liabilities Pension obligations KPN’s financial liabilities include loans and borrowings, derivative The liability recognized in the Consolidated Statement of Financial financial instruments, other payables and deferred income and Position in respect of all pension and early retirement plans that trade and other payables. At initial recognition, KPN classifies qualify as defined benefit obligation is the present value of the its financial liabilities in one of the following categories: defined benefit obligation at the Consolidated Statement of ýý Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss; Financial Position date less the fair value of plan assets. KPN uses ýý Loans and borrowings; and actuarial calculations (projected unit credit method) to measure the ýý Derivatives. obligations and the costs. For the calculation, actuarial assumptions are made about demographic variables (such as employee turnover All financial liabilities are initially recognized at fair value net and mortality) and financial variables (such as future indexation of directly attributable transaction costs in case of loans and and the discount rate). The discount rate is determined by reference borrowings. Subsequent measurement depends on the to market rates. These are interest rates of high-quality corporate classification of the financial liability. Management determines bonds that are denominated in the currency in which the benefit the classification of the financial liabilities at initial recognition will be paid and that have terms to maturity, approximating the and assesses the designation at every reporting date. terms of the related liability. Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss A net defined benefit asset may arise where a defined benefit This category has two subcategories: financial liabilities held for plan has been overfunded. KPN recognizes a net defined benefit trading and those designated at fair value through profit or loss asset in such a case only when future economic benefits are at inception. Financial liabilities held for trading are classified in available to KPN in the form of a reduction in future this category when incurred for the purpose of repurchasing in contributions or a cash refund. the near future. This includes derivatives, including separated embedded derivatives, that are not designated as hedging Actuarial gains and losses are recognized immediately in the instruments in a hedging relationship as defined by IAS 39. Consolidated Statement of Other Comprehensive Income. Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss are 120 KPN — Integrated Annual Report 2014 Key Consolidated Corporate Financial Notes to Notes to Financial Other Statements General Notes Profit or Loss Financial Position Other Notes Statements Information Past service costs, curtailments and settlements are recognized immediately in the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss. The amount of pension costs included in operating expenses with respect to defined benefit plans consist of service cost, past service costs, curtailments and settlements and administration costs. Net interest on the net defined benefit liability is presented as part of finance costs. For pension plans that qualify as a defined contribution plan, KPN recognizes contributions as an expense when an employee has rendered service in exchange for those contributions. Termination benefits Termination benefits are payable when employment is terminated before the normal retirement date, or whenever an employee accepts voluntary redundancy in exchange for these benefits. KPN recognizes termination benefits when KPN is demonstrably committed either to terminating the employment of current employees according to a detailed formal plan without possibility of withdrawal or to providing termination benefits as a result of an offer made to encourage voluntary redundancy. Benefits falling due more than 12 months after December 31 are discounted to present value. Other long-term employee obligations These employee benefits include jubilee or other long-service benefits, long-term disability benefits and, if they are not fully payable within 12 months after the end of the period, bonuses and deferred compensation. The expected costs of these benefits are accrued over the period of employment using an accounting method similar to that for defined benefit pension plans, except that actuarial gains and losses and past-service costs are recognized immediately in the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss. Provisions for other liabilities and charges Provisions for items such as asset retirement obligations, restructuring costs and legal claims are recognized when KPN has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events, and it is more likely than not that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation and the amount can be reliably estimated. Provisions are measured at the present value of management’s best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the present obligation at the Statement of Financial Position date. The discount rate used to determine the present value reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the liability. See Notes 23 and 24 on KPN’s provisions. Statement of Cash Flows The Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows is prepared using the indirect method. Cash flows denominated in currencies other than the euro are translated at average exchange rates. Cash flows relating to interest and taxes on profits are included in the cash flow from operating activities. The consideration paid in cash for newly acquired KPN Group companies and associated companies is included in the cash flow from investing activities net of cash acquired. Cash flows resulting from the acquisition or disposal of KPN Group companies are disclosed separately. Investments in property, plant and equipment, which are financed by financial leases, are not included in the cash flow used in investing activities. KPN — Integrated Annual Report 2014 121 Key Consolidated Corporate Financial Notes to Notes to Financial Other Statements General Notes Profit or Loss Financial Position Other Notes Statements Information FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss [1] Revenues Amounts in millions of EUR 2014 2013 Rendering of services 7,026 7,829 Sale of goods 940 575 Other revenues 33 39 Total revenues 7,999 8,443 Rendering of services includes traffic and subscription fees for the usage of KPN’s networks, handset leasing fees, one-off connection and other initial fees and revenues from designing, building, deploying and managing ICT solutions which are provided on a time and material basis or as a fixed-price contract. The sale of goods included peripheral and other equipment. Reference is made to Note 35 for more information on KPN’s revenues per segment. [2] Other income Amounts in millions of EUR 2014 2013 Gains on the sale of property, plant and equipment 6 5 Other gains 78 24 Total other income 84 29 Gains on the sale of property, plant and equipment in 2014 is mainly related to the transfer of the test system and spare parts of the C2000 network (EUR 5 million). In 2014, other gains mainly included a tax settlement benefit of EUR 74 million and gains from the disposal of sales contracts of Callfactory (EUR 2 million). In 2013, other gains mainly included a positive result of the sale of Infrastructure Services & Partners B.V. (EUR 23 million), the sale of Utility Connect B.V. (EUR 5 million) and a negative result of the sale of Compucom (EUR -3 million). [3] Employee benefits Amounts in millions of EUR 2014 2013 Salaries and wages 1,020 1,064 Pension charges [23] -3691 101 Social security contributions 146 132 Total employee benefits 797 1,297 1) Includes release of provision of EUR 477 million; for details, please refer to Note 23.  [..] Bracketed number refers to the related Note. Reference is made to Note 35 ‘Segment Reporting’ for further information on the number of employees and to Note 24 ‘Provisions for other liabilities and charges’ for further information on employee redundancy costs. In the other operating expenses, an amount of EUR 72 million is recorded related to personnel restructuring (2013: EUR 100 million). Board of Management and Supervisory Board The Remuneration Report included in this Annual Report contains required information comprising ‘D: Details of actual pay-out for 2014’ and ‘E: Supervisory Board Pay 2014’, which are deemed part of these Financial Statements. 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 Notes to Financial Position > 122 KPN — Integrated Annual Report 2014 Key Consolidated Corporate Financial Notes to Notes to Financial Other Statements General Notes Profit or Loss Financial Position Other Notes Statements Information Share option plans KPN has granted stock options on its shares to members of the Board of Management, senior management and employees in the Netherlands with a collective labor agreement. As all remaining share option plans vested in 2010, no cost is recorded in 2014 and 2013. All options are granted with an exercise price equal to market share price at grant date, are equity-settled and are forfeited when employees leave KPN for reasons other than retirement, disability or death (except for some personnel plans). The other main features of the option plans are: Profits in Exercisable escrow if Exercise price (years after exercised Performance (in EUR) Maximum term grant date) Vesting period within 3 years1 related2 2005 Management 6.73-7.18 8 years 3 years 3 years – yes Management 6.73 8 years 3 years 3 years – no Management Belgium 6.73 8 years 3.7 years 3 years – no 1) If options are exercisable immediately, the profits from any exercise prior to the third anniversary of the date of issue will be held in escrow until the third anniversary of the issue, at which time such profits will be released to the relevant option holder, provided that the option holder remains employed by KPN. 2) The number of options that vested after the three-year vesting period and were performance-related depended on KPN’s Total Shareholder Return (stock appreciation plus dividend pay-out; TSR) relative to a peer group of European telecommunication companies. In 2013, the remaining outstanding 405,282 options expired with a weighted average exercise price per option of EUR 6.75. The average KPN stock price in 2014 was EUR 2.56 (2013: EUR 2.02). 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 Notes to Financial Position > KPN — Integrated Annual Report 2014 123 Key Consolidated Corporate Financial Notes to Notes to Financial Other Statements General Notes Profit or Loss Financial Position Other Notes Statements Information FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss Share plans Since 2006, KPN has granted shares (equity-settled) and share-based awards (cash-settled) on its shares to members of the Board of Management and senior management: the Performance Share Plan (PSP). The conditionally granted PSP award will vest after three years if the employee is still employed with KPN. The number of share-based awards which vest partly depends on KPN’s Total Shareholder Return (TSR) position ranking relative to its peer group of European telecommunications companies. Since 2011, vesting is based for 75% on relative TSR and for 25% on non-financial performance measures i.e. energy reduction targets and a reputation dashboard. Since 2014, vesting is based on individual vesting for 25% on relative TSR versus peer group, for 25% on Free Cash Flow, for 25% on Earnings Per Share, for 12.5% on sustainability/environmental targets and for 12.5% on stakeholder/customer targets. Vesting of non-financial targets will be subject to achieving a cumulative net profit during the vesting period of three years (i.e. a qualifier for vesting). The list of companies included in the peer group and the vesting schedule can be found under ‘Long-term incentives’ in the ‘Remuneration Report’ section. In May 2012 and May 2013, an additional equity settled plan was granted to senior management: the KPN Restricted Share Plan. Shares under this plan will vest on January 1, 2015 (2012 grant) and on January 1, 2016 (2013 grant) if the employee is still employed with KPN. For this plan, no other performance measures are applicable. The share plan rules provide the possibility to adjust granted rights under the incentive plans to maintain its economic value if, subsequent to the date of grant, an issue of shares occurs. This approach is exclusively aimed at reflecting the increased number of shares following the rights issue and is in line with market practice. In 2013, therefore, the granted shares were adjusted based on a mathematically calculated adjustment factor, i.e. the cum-rights price divided by the TERP (Theoretical Ex-Rights Price) which, in case of the KPN rights issue, set the adjustment factor at 1.6494. This adjustment factor was be applicable for the existing (not yet vested) LTI plans, i.e. 2011, 2012 and 2013. The main features of the awards granted under the PSP and Restricted Share Plan to KPN management are summarized below: Holding period after Maximum term Settlement type1 Vesting period vesting of/until 2008 Board of Management 5 years Equity 3 years 2 years Senior Management 3 years Cash 3 years – 2009 Board of Management 5 years Equity2 3 years 2 years Senior Management 3 years Cash 3 years – 2010 Board of Management 5 years Equity 3 years 2 years Senior Management 3 years Cash 3 years – 2011 Board of Management 5 years Equity2 3 years 2 years Senior Management 3 years Cash 3 years – 2012 Board of Management and Senior Management 5 years Equity2 3 years 2 years Senior Management 3 years Cash 3 years – Senior Management Restricted Share Plan 2.7 years Equity 2.7 years – 2013 Board of Management and Senior Management 5 years Equity2 3 years 2 years Senior Management 3 years Cash 3 years – Senior Management Restricted Share Plan 2.7 years Equity 2.7 years – 2014 Board of Management and Senior Management 5 years Equity2 3 years 2 years Senior Management 3 years Cash 3 years – 1) The cash-settled share awards will be settled in cash and no holding restrictions apply. An exception to the holding period for equity-settled plans is made with respect to shares that were sold upon vesting to cover the tax obligation on the vested shares. After vesting, the holder is able to sell a number of unconditional granted shares only up to the amount necessary to settle the wage taxes liability relating to the profit made on the stock compensation plan. 2) Including deferred dividend. The total compensation expense associated with the share plans was EUR 6 million in 2014 (2013: EUR 4 million) and the related liability (for cash-settled shares) at December 31, 2014 was EUR 3 million (2013: EUR 1 million). This liability is included under Other payables and deferred income. During 2014, KPN granted 4,932,318 shares and share-based awards (2013: 6,511,905) to members of the Board of Management and senior management. Since no vesting conditions were met in the years 2013 and 2014, the intrinsic value at vesting was zero. 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 Notes to Financial Position > 124 KPN — Integrated Annual Report 2014 Key Consolidated Corporate Financial Notes to Notes to Financial Other Statements General Notes Profit or Loss Financial Position Other Notes Statements Information The following table presents the number of shares and share-based awards under the share plans for the year ended December 31, 2014. Number of shares Total at Granted/ Total at Granted/ Total at and share-based December additional Exercised/ December additional Exercised/ December – of which: awards 31, 2012 vesting2-5 Vested Forfeited 31, 20133-5 vesting2 Vested Forfeited 31, 20143-5 Non-vested 2008 Shares Board of Management 87,576 – -87,576 – – – – – – 2011 Sharebased awards Senior Management 1,395,215 810,747 – -137,266 4 2,068,696 – – -2,068,696 – – 2011 Shares Board of Management 135,334 87,885 – –4 223,219 – – -223.219 – – 2012 Sharebased awards Senior Management 1,116,558 704,672 – -132,449 1,688,781 – – -135,817 1,552,964 1,552,964 2012 Shares Board of Management/ Senior Management 438,667 188,317 – -25,311 601,673 – – -95,814 505,859 505,859 2012 Restricted Shares Senior Management 607,500 375,200 – -42,359 940,341 – – -371,000 569,341 569,341 2013 Sharebased awards Senior Management – 1,776,2931 – – 1,776,293 – – -154,534 1,621,759 1,621,759 2013 Shares Board of Management/ Senior Management – 634,1131 – – 634,113 – – -101,446 532,667 532,667 2013 Restricted Shares Senior Management – 1,934,678 – -20,600 1,914,078 – – -494,400 1,419,678 1,419,678 2014 Sharebased awards Senior Management – – – – – 3,274,202 – -21,824 3,252,378 3,252,378 2014 Shares Board of Management/ Senior Management – – – – – 1,658,116 – -55,952 1,602,164 1,602,164 1) On the basis of a 100% grant. The equity-settled share numbers do not include any deferred dividend during the vesting period. The deferred dividend during the vesting period will be granted in additional shares. 2) At grant date, the fair value is calculated using a Monte Carlo Simulation model except for the restricted shares. At April 10, 2014, the fair value was EUR 2.37 (2013 grant: EUR 1.06) for the 2014 share-based award (cash-settled) and EUR 2.37 (2013 grant: EUR 1.06) for the 2014 equity-settled share grant for members of the Board of Management and Senior Management (excluding deferred dividend). The fair value was EUR 1.58 for the 2013 Restricted share award for Senior Management. 3) At December 31, 2014, the fair value of each cash-settled share-based award was measured, using recent strategic plans, forecasts and a Monte Carlo Simulation model, based on the most recent available share price of KPN and its performance compared with peer companies at the moment of valuation (i.e. closing share prices as at December 31, 2014). At December 31, 2014 the fair value was EUR 0 (2013: EUR 0) for the 2012 share-based award, EUR 0.85 (2013: EUR 1.96) for the 2013 share-based award and EUR 2.42 for the 2014 share-based award. 4) At the end of 2014, KPN held the 13th position with respect to the 2012 share grant and at the end of 2013 KPN held the 14th position with respect to the 2011 share grant. Final TSR measurement for the 2012 share grant was conducted as of February 15, 2015. 5) Granted shares were adjusted based on a mathematically calculated adjustment factor, i.e. the cum-rights price divided by the TERP (Theoretical Ex-Rights Price) which, in case of the KPN rights issue, is set at 1.6494. The fair value of each award at the grant date is determined using the following assumptions: 2014 PSP 2013 PSP 2013 Restricted Shares Risk-free interest rate based on euro government bonds for remaining time to maturity of 2.7 years 0.6% 0.6% 0.6% Expected dividend for KPN (based on one year’s historical daily data preceding the date of award) 2.0% 0.0% – Expected volatility (PSP grant based on 2.7 years historical daily data) 38.4% 32.9% – Share price at date of award (closing at grant date) EUR 2.49 EUR 1.06 EUR 1.58 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 Notes to Financial Position > KPN — Integrated Annual Report 2014 125 Key Consolidated Corporate Financial Notes to Notes to Financial Other Statements General Notes Profit or Loss Financial Position Other Notes Statements Information FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss [4] Depreciation, amortization and impairments Amounts in millions of EUR 2014 2013 Amortization of other intangible assets 570 585 Impairment of other intangible assets 7 14 Total amortization and impairments of other intangible assets 577 599 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 1,199 1,232 Impairments and retirements of property, plant and equipment 44 26 Total depreciation and impairment of property, plant and equipment 1,243 1,258 Total 1,820 1,857 Depreciation and impairments on property, plant and equipment are detailed as follows: Amounts in millions of EUR 2014 2013 By classification: Land and buildings 76 79 Plant and equipment 1,116 1,127 Other tangible fixed assets 35 41 Assets under construction 16 11 Total 1,243 1,258 [5] Other operating expenses In 2014, Other operating expenses comprised, among others, an addition to the restructuring provision of EUR 84 million (2013: EUR 122 million). For more details reference is made to Note 24. Auditor’s fees The fees listed below relate to the services provided to KPN and its consolidated group entities by PwC Accountants N.V., the Netherlands, KPN’s external auditor as referred to in Section 1(1) of the Dutch Accounting Firms Oversight Act (‘Wet toezicht accountantsorganisaties’ or ‘Wta’), as well as by other Dutch and foreign-based PwC individual partnerships and legal entities, including their tax services and advisory groups: Amounts in millions of EUR 2014 2013 Financial statements audit fees 8.6 6.8 Other assurance fees 1.1 4.5 Tax fees 4.4 3.2 All other fees 0.2 0.3 Total 14.3 14.8 The total fees of PwC Accountants N.V., the Netherlands, charged to KPN and its consolidated group entities amounted to EUR 6.7 million in 2014 (2013: EUR 10.7 million). The financial statements audit fees include the aggregate fees billed in each of 2014 and 2013 for professional services rendered for the audit of KPN’s annual financial statements and annual statutory financial statements of subsidiaries or services that are normally provided by the auditor in connection with the audits. In 2014 additional audit fees were incurred in Germany in relation to the sale of E-Plus. The other assurance fees include the aggregate fees billed for assurance and related services that are reasonably related to the performance of the audit or review of KPN’s Financial Statements and are not reported under audit services. This includes revenue and IT-related assurance services and regulatory-related assurance services. In 2013 this also included EUR 2 million fees related to the rights issue. The other assurance fees billed in 2014 are still regarded as permitted services under the Audit firms supervision act (‘Wet toezicht accountantsorganisaties’). Tax fees in 2014 primarily related to tax services billed in the Netherlands and Germany in relation to the sale of E-Plus. All tax fees billed in 2014, as well as all other fees billed in 2014 related to services based on contracts that were in existence prior to January 1, 2013 or were billed by foreign PwC firms. 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 Notes to Financial Position > 126 KPN — Integrated Annual Report 2014 Key Consolidated Corporate Financial Notes to Notes to Financial Other Statements General Notes Profit or Loss Financial Position Other Notes Statements Information [6] Financial income and expenses Amounts in millions of EUR 2014 2013 Finance income 34 29 Interest on borrowings -589 -688 Interest on provisions for retirement benefit obligations -23 -41 Interest on other provisions -2 -1 Other -257 -24 Finance costs -871 -754 Amortizable part of hedge reserve [20] -13 -6 Financial instruments not qualified for hedge accounting 1 17 Exchange rate differences -4 3 Reggefiber call/put arrangements [12, 30, 31] -159 -56 Other 109 10 Other financial results -66 -32 Total -903 -757 [..] Bracketed numbers refer to the related Notes. In 2014, interest on borrowings included a non-cash amount of EUR 22 million (2013: EUR 19 million) relating to debt issue costs and similar costs, which are amortized over the remaining life of the respective bonds. The decrease in interest on borrowings was related to a lower gross debt position. In 2014, line item ‘Other’ in Finance costs included premiums and fees of EUR 236 million and additional amortization costs of EUR 7 million related to the tender on outstanding Eurobonds executed in November 2014. Interest on provisions for retirement benefit obligations is the net amount of interest cost on the defined benefit obligation and expected return on plan assets (see Note 23). Changes in the carrying value of Reggefiber call/put arrangements to acquire the remaining shares have been recorded in Other financial results, resulting in a loss of EUR 159 million in 2014 (2013: EUR 56 million loss). Refer to Note 31 for further information on Reggefiber. In 2014, line item ‘Other’ in Other financial results mainly includes a gain of EUR 42 million for the remeasurement of KPN’s 51% stake in Reggefiber, which was partly offset by the release of the related hedge reserve from equity of EUR 7 million, a settlement gain of EUR 25 million because KPN reached an agreement with Reggeborgh on the option to acquire the remaining 40% stake in Reggefiber (refer to Note 31) and a gain of EUR 32 million on the unwinding of swaps related to the bond tender. In 2013, this included the net result of the sale of available-for-sale financial assets (11% stake in Compucom) for the amount of EUR 21 million. 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 Notes to Financial Position > KPN — Integrated Annual Report 2014 127 Key Consolidated Corporate Financial Notes to Notes to Financial Other Statements General Notes Profit or Loss Financial Position Other Notes Statements Information FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss [7] Taxation The Netherlands In 2006, KPN signed a covenant with the Dutch tax authorities to self-assess and transparently discuss KPN’s current and potential future tax issues (enhanced supervision, “horizontal monitoring”). In the course of 2014, KPN and the Dutch tax authorities reached several agreements. One of these agreements related to the agreement reached in December 2013 on the Dutch tax consequences of the tax book loss which is recognized as a result of the sale of E-Plus to Telefónica Deutschland. With the closing of the sale in 2014 this tax book loss amounts to approximately EUR 5 billion. To the extent this loss cannot be carried back to earlier years, it is expected to offset KPN’s taxable income in the Netherlands in the current and coming years. Dividends received and/or capital gains (up to the amount of the loss deducted) realized on KPN’s 20.5% shareholding in Telefónica Deutschland are subject to Dutch corporate income tax. Following this agreement, KPN increased the deferred tax asset of the Dutch fiscal unity with regard to the book loss on the sale of E-Plus in 2014 with EUR 297 million (EUR 932 million in 2013) to EUR 1,229 million. The revaluation of the stake in Telefónica Deutschland following changes in the share price during the period from October 1, 2014 to December 31, 2014 was recorded through Other Comprehensive Income and reduced the deferred tax asset by EUR 41 million to EUR 1,188 million at December 31, 2014. The deferred tax asset was not included in the disposal group held for sale. KPN qualifies as an innovative company and concluded an agreement in 2011 with the Dutch tax authorities with respect to the application of the Dutch innovation box tax regime. The innovation box tax regime is a facility under Dutch corporate income tax law whereby profits attributable to innovation are taxed at an effective rate of 5%. The application of the innovation box resulted in a benefit of EUR 17 million over 2014 (2013: EUR 37 million) and furthermore reduced KPN’s effective tax rate in the Netherlands from the statutory tax rate of 25% to approximately 20%. Reggefiber has been consolidated (in full) in the financial statements of KPN as of November 1, 2014. The Reggefiber Group consists of seven fiscal unities of which several unities have tax losses carry forward. At December 31, 2014, a deferred tax asset of EUR 85 million was recorded of which EUR 47 million relates to recognized tax losses carry forward. Germany/E-Plus discontinued operations After the sale of E-Plus to Telefónica Deutschland, KPN remains liable for current tax positions of E-Plus until December 31, 2013. The total outstanding amount was EUR 60 million at December 31, 2014. In Germany, income tax consists of trade tax (‘Gewerbesteuer’) and corporate tax (‘Körperschaftssteuer’). In 2013, E-Plus was classified as ‘disposal group held for sale’ and upon that classification an impairment of the deferred tax assets for tax losses carry forward of EUR 747 million was recorded (as loss for the period from discontinued operations) resulting from changes in expectations of future taxable income in the German legal entities remaining within KPN Group. On August 29, 2013, The Foundation Preference Shares B KPN exercised its call option and obtained an interest in KPN’s issued share capital equal to 50% minus one share. This event resulted in a change of control from a German tax perspective and expiration of 50% of the available losses carry forward in Germany. This triggered a permanent partial release of recognized deferred tax assets for tax losses carry forward of EUR 99 million as loss for the year from discontinued operations. At the closing date of the sale of E-Plus to Telefónica Deutschland, the remaining deferred tax assets for tax losses carry forward were no longer recognized. The German activities (E-Plus) of KPN formed a German partnership transparent for German tax purposes and a permanent establishment for Dutch tax purposes. An agreement in 2004 with the Dutch tax authorities allowed KPN to offset in 2002 a EUR 11.5 billion tax loss related to E-Plus against its Dutch taxable result. This loss had to be recaptured in later years by adding EBITDA of E-Plus to the taxable income of KPN. For the tax payments on this recapture, a deferred tax liability had been recognized. As of December 31, 2013 this recapture was fully realized. Other entities There are several other entities in the Netherlands which are separately liable for income taxes. In most other countries in which KPN operates, tax loss carry forward is available and therefore no income tax is payable except when minimum taxation rules are applicable. In 2013, iBasis recognized a deferred tax asset to an amount of EUR 23 million based on tax loss carry forward to offset positive taxable income in the coming years. 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 Notes to Financial Position > 128 KPN — Integrated Annual Report 2014 Key Consolidated Corporate Financial Notes to Notes to Financial Other Statements General Notes Profit or Loss Financial Position Other Notes Statements Information Income tax expense Amounts in millions of EUR 2014 2013 Current tax -37 -53 Changes in deferred taxes -10 84 Income tax (charge)/benefit from continuing operations -47 31 The reconciliation from the Dutch statutory tax to the effective tax rate is explained in the table below. Amounts in millions of EUR 2014 2013 Profit before income tax from continuing operations1 292 269 Taxes at Dutch statutory tax rates2 -73 -67 Tax rate differences of foreign operations3 – -4 Non-taxable income and non-deductible expenses4 -35 -16 Notional interest deduction Belgium – 13 Innovation tax facilities current year 17 37 Innovation tax facilities prior years5 -18 16 (De)recognition of deferred tax positions6: – related to prior years 37 45 – related to the current year 5 4 Other 20 3 Income tax benefit/(charge) from continuing operations -47 31 Effective tax rate continuing operations 16.1% -11.5% 1) Excluding the share in profits or losses of associates and joint ventures. 2) Taxes at Dutch statutory tax rates are calculated on the basis of profit before income tax from continuing operations (excluding the share of profits of associates and joint ventures) and the applicable Dutch corporate income tax rate of 25% in 2014 and 2013. 3) Tax rate differences of foreign operations reflect the impact of different tax rates in the fiscal jurisdictions in which KPN operates. In 2014 and 2013, the corporate tax rates amounted to 34% in Belgium and 40% in the United States. 4) Non-taxable income and non-deductible expenses represent adjustments for income not subject to taxation and mainly relates to a non-deductible loss regarding Reggefiber of EUR 99 million (please refer to Note 31 for further information). 5) In 2011, KPN reached an agreement with the Dutch tax authorities with regard to the application of the so-called innovation tax facilities which was reassessed in 2013 and 2014. 6) (De)recognition of deferred tax positions reflects the effects of valuation or non-valuation of tax loss carry forward and deductible temporary differences mainly due to blended tax rate adjustments. In 2013, iBasis US recognized a deferred tax asset to an amount of EUR 23 million based on tax loss carry forward to offset positive taxable income in the coming years. Deferred tax assets and liabilities Amounts in millions of EUR December 31, 2014 December 31, 2013 Deferred tax assets 1,323 1,167 – of which: to be recovered after 12 months 1,182 1,103 – of which: to be recovered within 12 months 141 64 Deferred tax liabilities 52 9 – of which: to be realized after 12 months 49 9 – of which: to be realized within 12 months 3 – Deferred tax assets and liabilities 1,271 1,158 Depending on future taxable results, a part of deferred tax assets relating to tax loss carry forward now considered to be recoverable after 12 months may be recoverable in the short term, whereas tax loss carry forward now considered to be recoverable within 12 months may be recoverable in the long term. 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 Notes to Financial Position > KPN — Integrated Annual Report 2014 129 Key Consolidated Corporate Financial Notes to Notes to Financial Other Statements General Notes Profit or Loss Financial Position Other Notes Statements Information FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss Deferred tax assets Deductible temporary differences Offset against Tax loss carry Other Pension deferred tax forward3 Goodwill intangibles2 provisions7 Other 1 liabilities Total Balance as of December 31, 2012 1,109 198 438 309 507 -714 1,847 Exchange differences – – – -2 2 – – Income statement benefit/(charge) -628 -29 – -27 838 – 154 Tax charged to equity – – – -62 53 – -9 Reclassification 5 – – -40 36 156 157 Transferred to held for sale -388 -83 -438 – -73 – -982 Balance as of December 31, 2013 98 86 – 178 1,363 -558 1,167 Exchange differences 3 – – 4 -4 – 3 Income statement benefit/(charge) -15 -30 – -155 378 – 178 Changes in consolidation 44 – – – 42 – 86 Transfer to current tax4 -76 – – -50 5 – -121 Tax charged to equity5 -41 – – -9 – – -50 Reclassification6 747 – – 43 -808 78 60 Balance as of December 31, 20141 760 56 – 11 976 -480 1,323 1) Other deductible temporary differences at December 31, 2014 include property, plant and equipment of EUR 82 million (2013: EUR 231 million), cash flow hedge reserves of EUR 131 million (charged to equity, 2013: EUR 130 million) and revenue recognition of EUR 16 million (2013: EUR 19 million). Furthermore, it includes the remaining part of the deferred tax asset of EUR 1.2 billion in the Netherlands that relates to the sale of E-Plus. The tax benefit relating to this DTA is partially reported as ‘profit from discontinued operations’ and partially recorded through Other Comprehensive Income. 2) Mainly related to UMTS licenses in Germany. 3) The impairment of EUR 747 million of deferred tax assets for tax losses carry forward in Germany in 2013 is reported as ‘loss for the period from discontinued operations’. 4) Includes the usage of the deferred tax asset of EUR 1.2 billion in the Netherlands that relates to the sale of E-Plus. 5) Deferred tax charged to equity relates mainly to movements in the revaluation of the stake in TEFD, the hedge reserve and pensions. 6) Due to the actual sale of E-Plus in 2014, the deferred tax asset in the Netherlands in relationship with this sale is partially reclassified from other temporary differences to tax loss carry forward. 7) The decrease in the DTA for pension provisions relates to implementation of the CDC pension plans and the related releases in the pension provisions. Deferred tax liabilities Taxable temporary differences Deferred liability due to losses in German Offset against permanent Software Accelerated deferred tax establishment development depreciation1 Other2-3 assets Total Balance as of December 31, 2012 205 228 305 187 -714 211 Income statement (benefit)/charge – -45 -61 -113 – -219 Tax payable due to E-Plus loss recapture -205 – – – – -205 Changes in consolidation – – – 5 – 5 Reclassification – – – -9 156 147 Transfer to current tax – – – 88 – 88 Tax charged to equity – – – -15 – -15 Transferred to held for sale – – – -3 – -3 Balance as of December 31, 2013 – 183 244 140 -558 9 Income statement (benefit)/charge – 20 -72 -105 – -157 Changes in consolidation – – – 51 – 51 Reclassification – – – -1 78 77 Transfer to current tax – – – 89 – 89 Tax charged to equity – – – -17 – -17 Balance as of December 31, 2014 – 203 172 157 -480 52 1) Relates to property, plant and equipment in the Netherlands. 2) Other taxable temporary differences at December 31, 2014 include intangible fixed assets of EUR 77 million (2013: EUR 65 million), property plant and equipment of EUR 32 million (2013: EUR 40 million) and provisions for early retirement of EUR 13 million (2013: EUR 19 million). 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 Notes to Financial Position > 130 KPN — Integrated Annual Report 2014 Key Consolidated Corporate Financial Notes to Notes to Financial Other Statements General Notes Profit or Loss Financial Position Other Notes Statements Information Tax loss carry forward December 31, 2014 December 31, 2013 Tax loss Recognized deferred Tax loss Recognized deferred carry forward tax assets carry forward tax assets Koninklijke KPN – corporate tax1 2,842 624 84 9 BASE Company – corporate tax 175 63 173 63 Other 446 73 275 26 Total continuing operations 3,463 760 532 98 Remaining E-Plus – trade tax2 2 – 794 82 Remaining E-Plus – corporate tax2 7,459 – 6,883 45 Total KPN Group 10,924 760 8,209 225 1) Part of the tax loss carry forward are pre-consolidation losses (‘voorvoegingsverliezen’) limited in their use as such losses may only be compensated by taxable income generated by the specific company itself. Part of the tax book loss which is recognized as a result of the sale of E-Plus to Telefónica Deutschland is included in this amount. This total tax book loss amounts to EUR 5 billion and, to the extent this loss cannot be carried back to earlier years, it is expected to offset KPN’s taxable income in the Netherlands in the current and coming years 2) The tax loss carry forward relate to the remaining German entities within the KPN Group after the sale of E-Plus. At the closing date of the sale of E-Plus the remaining deferred tax assets for losses carry forward were no longer recognized. E-Plus has been classified as ‘disposal group held for sale’ as of July 23, 2013 and upon that classification an impairment of deferred tax assets for tax losses carry forward of EUR 747 million was recorded (as ‘loss for the period from discontinued operations’) resulting from changes in expectations of future taxable income in the German legal entities remaining within the KPN Group. On August 29, 2013, the Foundation Preference Shares B KPN obtained an interest in KPN’s issued share capital equal to 50% minus one share which resulted in a change of control from a German tax perspective and expiration of 50% of the available losses carry forward in Germany. This triggered a permanent partial release of recognized deferred tax assets for tax loss carry forward of EUR 99 million as loss for the period from discontinued operations. Recognized deferred tax assets reflect management’s estimate of realizable amounts. The amounts of tax loss carry forward are subject to assessment by local tax authorities. The expiration of the available tax loss carry forward and recognized tax assets at December 31, 2014 is as follows: Tax loss Maximum deferred Recognized deferred carry forward tax asset tax asset1 2015 7 2 1 2016 10 2 2 2017 26 6 6 2018 7 2 1 2019 28 7 5 Later 3,032 767 680 Unlimited 7,814 1,293 65 Total Group 10,924 2,079 760 1) Deferred tax assets are recognized to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the tax loss carry forward can be utilized. The expiration of the available tax loss carry forward and recognized tax assets at December 31, 2013 was as follows: Tax loss Maximum deferred Recognized deferred carry forward tax asset tax asset1 2014 4 1 – 2015 10 2 1 2016 11 2 2 2017 20 5 4 2018 29 7 1 Later 117 38 25 Unlimited 341 105 65 Total continuing operations 532 160 98 Discontinued operations unlimited2 7,677 1,212 127 Total Group 8,209 1,372 225 1) Deferred tax assets are recognized to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the tax loss carry forward can be utilized. 2) The amount of tax loss carry forward contains EUR 6,657 million, which relates to the above-mentioned impairment of deferred tax assets of EUR 747 million. 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 Notes to Financial Position > KPN — Integrated Annual Report 2014 131 Key Consolidated Corporate Financial Notes to Notes to Financial Other Statements General Notes Profit or Loss Financial Position Other Notes Statements Information FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss [8] Earnings per share The following table shows the calculation of the basic and fully-diluted earnings per share attributable to equity holders based on the profit attributable to equity holders, the average number of subscribed ordinary shares and the calculated weighted average number of subscribed ordinary shares/weighted average number of subscribed ordinary shares taking into account the dilution effects: 2014 2013 Profit for the year from continuing operations in millions of EUR 239 293 Profit (loss) for the year from discontinued operations in millions of EUR -823 -508 Profit (loss) for the year in millions of EUR -584 -215 Profit attributable to non-controlling interests [21] 14 7 Profit (loss) attributable to equity holders [20] -598 -222 Weighted average number of subscribed ordinary shares outstanding 4,258,098,273 3,536,302,579 Dilution effects: – options and non-vested shares 4,123,850 4,090,205 Weighted average number of subscribed ordinary shares outstanding including dilution effects 4,262,222,123 3,540,392,784 Earnings per share after taxes attributable to equity holders for the year in EUR – basic continuing operations1 0.04 0.07 – fully-diluted continuing operations1 0.04 0.07 – basic discontinued operations1 -0.19 -0.14 – fully-diluted discontinued operations1 -0.19 -0.14 – basic total, including discontinued1 -0.15 -0.07 – fully-diluted total, including discontinued1 -0.15 -0.07 1) Historic EPS and number of weighted average number of shares (non-diluted and fully-diluted) restated following the rights issue based on the adjustment of the historical share price (adjustment factor of 0.60628). [..] Bracketed numbers refer to the related Notes. Diluted earnings per share is calculated by adjusting the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding to assume conversion of all dilutive potential ordinary shares. Share options and non-vested shares are regarded to have potential dilutive effects on the ordinary shares. For the share options and share plans, a calculation is made in order to determine the number of shares that could have been acquired at fair value based on the monetary value of the subscription rights attached to outstanding share options. The profit attributable to equity holders used for calculations on a diluted basis is equal to the profit attributable to equity holders used for calculations on a non-diluted basis. Dividend on the perpetual hybrid bonds is deducted from the profit attributable to equity holders since the perpetual hybrid bonds represent equity but do not constitute profit attributable to equity holders. [9] Dividend per share During 2014, KPN paid an interim dividend of EUR 0.02 per share, in total EUR 85 million. KPN intends to pay a total dividend per share of EUR 0.07 in respect of 2014. 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 Notes to Financial Position > 132 KPN — Integrated Annual Report 2014 Key Consolidated Corporate Financial Notes to Notes to Financial Other Statements General Notes Profit or Loss Financial Position Other Notes Statements Information Notes to the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position [10] Intangible fixed assets Amounts in millions of EUR December 31, 2014 December 31, 2013 Goodwill 1,454 1,169 Licenses 1,564 1,729 Software 675 610 Other intangibles 299 135 Total intangible assets 3,992 3,643 Other intangibles mainly relate to customer relationships and trade names. In 2014, this includes the customer base of Reggefiber for an amount of EUR 195 million (refer also to Note 31). Statement of changes in goodwill Amounts in millions of EUR 2014 2013 Cost 1,921 5,914 Accumulated impairments -752 -757 Balance as of January 1 1,169 5,157 Investments1 281 – Disposals – -5 Exchange rate differences 4 -2 Subsequent purchase price adjustments – 5 Transferred to held for sale – -3,986 Closing net book value 1,454 1,169 Cost 2,217 1,921 Accumulated impairments -763 -752 Balance as of December 31 1,454 1,169 1) Increase mainly due to purchase price allocation of Reggefiber (EUR 269 million). For goodwill impairment testing, KPN’s cash-generating units are deemed equal to KPN’s operating segments. Allocation of goodwill is made to those cash-generating units or groups of cash-generating units that are expected to benefit from the business combination in which the goodwill arose. The allocation of goodwill to cash-generating units is made in accordance with KPN’s internal structure, and is shown below (refer also to Note 35): Amounts in millions of EUR December 31, 2014 December 31, 2013 Consumer Mobile 270 270 Consumer Residential 167 167 NetCo1 481 211 Business2 354 343 Belgium 96 96 iBasis3 86 82 Total 1,454 1,169 1) Increase mainly due to purchase price allocation of Reggefiber (EUR 269 million). 2) Increase due to purchase price allocation of MSBN BV, Telenetix BV and Argeweb BV. 3) Change in goodwill relates to exchange rate differences. KPN obtained full control and Reggefiber has been consolidated (in full) in the Financial Statements of KPN as of November 1, 2014. The purchase price and the allocated fair value have been determined on a provisional basis. For the purpose of impairment testing, the acquired goodwill (EUR 269 million) has provisionally been allocated to KPN’s cash-generating unit NetCo (refer also to Note 31). As of December 19, 2014, Yes Telecom acquired a 100% share in mobile virtual network operator MSBN B.V. and in Telenetix B.V., which delivers IT Services to MSBN B.V. resulting in goodwill of EUR 6 million. As of August 12, 2014, KPN acquired a 100% share in hosting company Argeweb B.V. resulting in goodwill of EUR 5 million. In 2013, a purchase price adjustment of EUR 5 million was recognized related to the acquisitions of Edutel, XMS, KickXL and Concepts ICT from Reggeborgh in 2012. In 2013, no acquisitions were made. The disposal of EUR 5 million in 2013 relates to the sale of Multiconnect. The transfer to held for sale of EUR 3,986 million relates to E-Plus. Refer to Note 31 for further information on business combinations. < Notes to Profit or Loss 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 Other Notes > KPN — Integrated Annual Report 2014 133 Key Consolidated Corporate Financial Notes to Notes to Financial Other Statements General Notes Profit or Loss Financial Position Other Notes Statements Information FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position Goodwill impairment test Goodwill is impaired if the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to which it is allocated is lower than the book value of the cash-generating unit concerned including goodwill. A detailed review has been performed of the recoverable amount of each cashgenerating unit. For all cash-generating units, the recoverable amount is based on their value-in-use, which was determined by using the discounted cash flow method. Key assumptions used in the cash flow projections are estimated EBITDA, estimated capital expenditures, the estimated change in working capital and the pre-tax weighted average cost of capital (WACC) used for discounting the cash flow projections. The cash flow projections for the first five years are management’s best estimate based on the most recent business plans, historical growth rates and EBITDA margins. KPN believes the period used in the projections to be a suitable timescale for reviewing and considering the annual performance before applying a fixed terminal value multiple to the final year cash flows of the detailed projection. For all cash-generating units, the impairment test in 2014 resulted in positive headroom as per December 31, 2014. Significant cash-generating units The key long-term assumptions used in the impairment test are summarized in the table below: Sales growth Capex intensity EBITDA margin Discount rate Consumer Mobile 2014 0% 0%-1% 16%-21% 8.0%-8.5% Consumer Mobile 2013 0% 3%-5% 13%-16% 8.5%-9.0% Consumer Residential 2014 0% 8%-10% 21%-31% 8.0%-8.5% Consumer Residential 2013 0% 10%-13% 19%-22% 8.5%-9.0% NetCo 2014 0% 30%-36% 58%-68% 8.0%-8.5% NetCo 2013 0% 28%-35% 52%-62% 8.5%-9.0% Business 2014 0% 2%-4% 15%-20% 8.0%-8.5% Business 2013 0% 4%-5% 20%-23% 8.5%-9.0% Other cash-generating units The key long-term assumptions used in the impairment test are summarized in the table below: Sales growth Capex intensity EBITDA margin Discount rate Belgium 2014 0% 10%-20% 24%-29% 9.0%-9.5% Belgium 2013 0% 15%-25% 25%-27% 9.5%-10% iBasis 2014 0% 0%-1% 1%-3% 14%-16% iBasis 2013 0% 0%-1% 1%-3% 16%-17% Sensitivity to changes in key assumptions The expected future cash flows used in the impairment analysis are based on management’s estimates. Events amongst others in technology and telecommunications markets as well as the financial markets and the overall economy may have an impact on the estimated future cash flows of KPN’s businesses. Since the headroom of the Dutch cash-generating units is more than sufficient, no sensitivity analysis is disclosed for these significant cash-generating units. The following table gives an indication of value change of the other cash-generating units as per year end 2014: Amounts in millions of EUR Sales growth Capex intensity EBITDA margin Discount rate Increase / (decrease) -0.5pps +0.5pps -0.5pps +0.5pps -0.5pps +0.5pps -0.5pps +0.5pps Value change Belgium (40) – (45) 50 – 55 15 – 20 (15) – (20) (15) – (20) 15 – 20 55 – 60 (50) – (55) Value change iBasis 0 – (3) 0–3 10 – 13 (10) – (13) (10) – (13) 10 – 13 2–5 (2) – (5) Considering the margin between the recoverable and carrying amount of Belgium (more than EUR 100 million) and iBasis (approximately EUR 10 million), negative sensitivities will decrease the available headroom and may eventually result in an impairment. < Notes to Profit or Loss 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 Other Notes > 134 KPN — Integrated Annual Report 2014 Key Consolidated Corporate Financial Notes to Notes to Financial Other Statements General Notes Profit or Loss Financial Position Other Notes Statements Information Statement of changes in intangible fixed assets with finite lives Computer Software in Customer Amounts in millions of EUR Licenses software development relationships Trade names Other Total Balance as of January 1, 2013 2,191 679 159 148 55 69 3,301 Investments 1,558 373 -20 – – 3 1,914 Disposals – -4 – – – – -4 Change in consolidation – – – 2 -4 – -2 Reclassification 44 6 – 1 1 -44 8 Amortization -295 -396 – -49 -8 -6 -754 Impairment – -2 -56 – – – -58 Transferred to held for sale (net) -1,769 -122 -7 -4 -18 -11 -1,931 Closing net book value 1,729 534 76 98 26 11 2,474 Cost 2,595 1,359 76 377 81 72 4,560 Accumulated amortization/ impairments -866 -825 – -279 -55 -61 -2,086 Balance as of December 31, 2013 1,729 534 76 98 26 11 2,474 Investments – 364 15 – – 10 389 Change in consolidation1 – 10 – 204 – – 214 Reclassification – 27 9 – – – 36 Amortization -165 -353 – -42 -3 -6 -569 Impairment – -3 -4 – – – -7 Exchange rate differences – – – – 1 – 1 Closing net book value 1,564 579 96 260 24 15 2,538 Cost 2,588 1,429 96 407 62 81 4,663 Accumulated amortization/ impairments -1,024 -850 – -147 -38 -66 -2,125 Balance as of December 31, 2014 1,564 579 96 260 24 15 2,538 1) The change in consolidation mainly relates to the customer base of Reggefiber (EUR 195 million), which is amortized over a period of 14 years starting on November 1, 2014. Licenses Amounts in millions of EUR December 31, 2014 December 31, 2013 NetCo 1,322 1,465 Belgium 242 264 Total 1,564 1,729 Both the decreases at NetCo and Belgium relate to regular amortizations, mainly amortizations of 4G licenses. At the end of 2014, the book value of Computer software and Software in development included internally generated software in the Netherlands for EUR 203 million (2013: EUR 167 million). < Notes to Profit or Loss 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 Other Notes > KPN — Integrated Annual Report 2014 135 Key Consolidated Corporate Financial Notes to Notes to Financial Other Statements General Notes Profit or Loss Financial Position Other Notes Statements Information FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position [11] Property, plant and equipment Statement of changes in property, plant and equipment Other tangible Land and Plant and non-current Assets under Amounts in millions of EUR buildings equipment assets construction Total Balance as of January 1, 2013 671 6,573 94 557 7,895 Investments 48 1,621 38 17 1,724 Disposals -2 -5 – – -7 Depreciation -83 -1,426 -42 -7 -1,558 Impairments and retirements -1 -24 -1 -9 -35 Reclassifications – -14 -3 9 -8 Change in consolidation – -3 – – -3 Transferred to held for sale (net) -37 -2,448 -6 -177 -2,668 Closing net book value 596 4,274 80 390 5,340 Cost 1,914 9,553 241 397 12,105 Accumulated depreciation/impairments -1,318 -5,279 -161 -7 -6,765 Balance as of December 31, 2013 596 4,274 80 390 5,340 Investments 46 1,055 11 -69 1,043 Disposals -1 – – – -1 Depreciation -73 -1,093 -32 – -1,198 Impairments and retirements -2 -23 -3 -16 -44 Exchange rate differences – 2 – – 2 Reclassifications – -26 -1 -30 -57 Change in consolidation1 3 1,515 3 – 1,521 Closing net book value 569 5,704 58 275 6,606 Cost 1,910 11,289 239 285 13,723 Accumulated depreciation/impairments -1,341 -5,585 -181 -10 -7,117 Balance as of December 31, 2014 569 5,704 58 275 6,606 1) The change in consolidation mainly relates to the consolidated fiber network of Reggefiber as of November 1, 2014. Property, plant and equipment primarily concerns assets located in the Netherlands (2014: approximately 92%; 2013: approximately 90%) and Belgium (2014: approximately 8%; 2013: approximately 10%). Assets under construction mainly relate to the construction of mobile networks. The book value of property, plant and equipment of which KPN as the lessee is the beneficial owner under financial lease programs amounted to EUR 90 million (2013: EUR 102 million). The book value of property, plant and equipment of which KPN is the lessor under operating lease programs amounted to EUR 213 million (2013: EUR 319 million). The decrease in the book value of property, plant and equipment of which KPN is the lessor under operating lease programs is caused by depreciation charges of plant and equipment. The future minimum lease payments receivable related to these operating leases are EUR 26 million (2013: EUR 117 million) in total, of which EUR 25 million (2013: EUR 97 million) matures within one year and the remaining EUR 1 million (2013: EUR 20 million) matures within one to five years. Sensitivity analysis At the end of 2014, the book value for copper and fiber cables is EUR 1,959 million, which is included in plant and equipment. The current depreciation rates for these investments are based on estimates and judgment about the useful lives of these assets. For copper cables, KPN estimates that the current useful life is 10 years. If the useful life was set at 20 years, the depreciation charge for 2014 would be EUR 84 million lower. For fiber cables, KPN estimates that the current useful life is 30 years. If the useful life was set at 40 years, the depreciation charge for 2015 would be EUR 16 million lower. < Notes to profit or loss 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 Other Notes > 136 KPN — Integrated Annual Report 2014 Key Consolidated Corporate Financial Notes to Notes to Financial Other Statements General Notes Profit or Loss Financial Position Other Notes Statements Information [12] Investments in associates and joint ventures Amounts in millions of EUR 2014 2013 Balance as of January 1 320 326 Additions – 7 Addition through business combination [31] 17 – Disposal through business combination [31] -288 – Income from associates and joint ventures -6 -7 Dividend received -1 -1 Transferred to held for sale – -3 Other changes – -2 Total changes -278 -6 Balance as of December 31 42 320 KPN holds interests in several legal entities. At December 31, 2014, investments in associates and joint ventures include NTT Data Getronics (30%) for an amount of EUR 17 million (2013: EUR 17 million) and Glasvezel Netwerk Amsterdam BV (70%) for an amount of EUR 17 million (part of the acquired net assets of Reggefiber, refer to Note 31). At December 31, 2013, investments in associates and joint ventures included Reggefiber (EUR 293 million) in which KPN had a 51% interest. On October 31, 2014, KPN obtained control and Reggefiber has been consolidated (in full) in the Consolidated Financial Statements of KPN as of November 1, 2014. This acquisition has been accounted for as a step acquisition under which an existing investment is treated as if it had been sold. KPN’s 51% stake in Reggefiber had a carrying value (based on equity method) of EUR 288 million at November 1, 2014 and was awarded a fair value of EUR 330 million in the purchase price allocation at that date. The fair value step-up of EUR 42 million has been recorded as a gain in other financial results (refer to Note 6). For information on the purchase price allocation of Reggefiber and the impact on the consolidated financial results of KPN, refer to Note 31. Loans to associates and joint ventures as of December 31, 2014, mainly concerned loans for an amount of EUR 18 million provided to Glasvezel Netwerk Amsterdam BV. At December 31, 2013, this included shareholder loans to Reggefiber for EUR 453 million. In the table below, the amounts of certain financial data with respect to joint ventures and associates are summarized, based on KPN’s share. Amounts in millions of EUR December 31, 20142 December 31, 2013 Current assets 11 91 Non-current assets1 25 894 Current liabilities 7 65 Non-current liabilities 4 687 Total revenues 38 204 Total operating expenses -38 -164 Profit or loss after taxes – -6 1) Including EUR 47 million goodwill at Reggefiber at December 31, 2013. 2) Amounts exclude Reggefiber. The difference in value between the assets and liabilities of the table above and the investment value is the goodwill paid by KPN which is included in the book value of the associates and joint ventures. [13] Available-for-sale financial assets Amounts in millions of EUR 2014 2013 Balance as of January 1 20 35 Decrease due to sale – -23 Increase due to purchase 2,530 – Fair value adjustment recorded in other comprehensive income 163 8 Balance as of December 31 2,713 20 Following the sale of E-Plus to Telefónica Deutschland at October 1, 2014, KPN obtained a stake of 20.5% in Telefónica Deutschland initially valued at EUR 2,528 million. The stake is accounted for as an ‘available-for-sale financial asset’ because KPN has no significant influence in Telefónica Deutschland. The fair value of the stake is based on Telefónica Deutschland’s share price and adjusted quarterly. At December 31, 2014, the fair value of the stake amounted EUR 2,692 million. Furthermore, KPN holds a 4% equity share in Jasper Wireless amounting to EUR 8 million (2013: EUR 10 million), a privately held company that provides a global machine-to-machine platform. In addition, KPN holds an equity stake of approximately 11% in Tecnocom, a listed Spanish ICT services company, amounting to EUR 11 million (2013: EUR 10 million). In the second quarter of 2013, the equity stake in Compucom, a privately held IT outsourcing company in North America, was sold, which caused a decline of EUR 23 million. < Notes to profit or loss 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 Other Notes > KPN — Integrated Annual Report 2014 137 Key Consolidated Corporate Financial Notes to Notes to Financial Other Statements General Notes Profit or Loss Financial Position Other Notes Statements information FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position [14] Trade and other receivables (non-current) Amounts in millions of EUR 2014 2013 Balance as of January 1 122 154 Current portion of non-current receivables 88 84 Gross 210 238 Additions 139 46 Redemptions -16 -31 Change in consolidation -162 – Transferred to held for sale -1 -43 Other changes 1 – Total gross at December 31 171 210 Current portion of non-current receivables 31 88 Balance as of December 31 140 122 During 2014, KPN posted collateral of EUR 94 million (2013: EUR 6 million), according to pre-agreed settlement schedules of KPN’s derivatives portfolio. For more information, refer to Note 30. Change in consolidation relates to prepayments to Reggefiber. For more information, refer to Note 31. The balance as of December 31 included the following: Amounts in millions of EUR 2014 2013 Accrued income and prepayments 37 112 Receivables from financial leases 2 3 Cash collateral on derivatives 100 6 Other loans 1 1 Total 140 122 Accrued income and prepayments mainly consist of prepaid rent recognized at nominal value. The gross amount with respect to receivables from financial leases amounts to EUR 3 million (2013: EUR 4 million), which fully matures within five years. The short-term portion of the financial leases amounting to EUR 1 million (2013: EUR 1 million) is classified as current trade and other receivables. [15] Inventories Amounts in millions of EUR December 31, 2014 December 31, 2013 Resources, parts, tools and measuring instruments 53 50 Finished goods 18 21 Total inventories, gross 71 71 Provision for obsolescence -10 -11 Total inventories, net 61 60 During 2014, a net amount of EUR 7 million (2013: EUR 8 million) was recorded as an expense for inventories carried at net realizable value. The expense is included in the line ‘cost of materials’ in the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss. The transition expenses relating to fixed-price contracts involving managed ICT services are included under finished goods and amount to EUR 4 million at the end of 2014 (2013: EUR 4 million). [16] Trade and other receivables (current) Amounts in millions of EUR December 31, 2014 December 31, 2013 Trade receivables 515 690 Social security and other taxes 6 3 Other receivables 36 181 Accrued income 295 244 Prepayments 147 96 Total 999 1,214 December 31, 2014 December 31, 2013 Trade receivables – gross 610 802 Provision for doubtful trade receivables -95 -112 Total 515 690 < Notes to Profit or Loss 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 Other Notes > 138 KPN — Integrated Annual Report 2014 Key Consolidated Corporate Financial Notes to Notes to Financial Other Statements General Notes Profit or Loss Financial Position Other Notes Statements Information The carrying amounts of trade and other receivables approximate to their fair value. Trade and other receivables are non-interest-bearing. The movements in the provision for doubtful trade receivables are as follows: Amounts in millions of EUR 2014 2013 Balance as of January 1 112 150 Addition through statement of profit or loss 9 36 Usage -26 -6 Other movements – 4 Transferred to held for sale – -72 Balance as of December 31 95 112 The maximum exposure to credit risk on trade receivables is limited to their gross amount. The concentration of KPN’s trade receivables over the different segments as at December 31 can be summarized as follows: December 31, 2014 December 31, 2013 Amounts in millions of EUR Gross Provision Gross Provision Consumer Mobile 50 13 56 14 Consumer Residential 33 8 50 12 Business Segment 273 14 332 19 NetCo Segment 101 31 118 44 iBasis Segment 45 6 133 5 Belgium Segment 97 14 96 12 Other 11 9 17 6 Total 610 95 802 112 For a discussion of KPN’s policies to reduce credit risk on trade receivables as well as concentration of the credit risk, reference is made to Note 30 ‘Capital and Financial Risk Management’. Postpaid mobile services are considered to have the highest credit risks within the business of KPN (Belgium, part of Business and Consumer Mobile Segments). Overall, concentrations of credit risk with respect to trade receivables are limited due to the Group’s large and unrelated customer base. The provision for doubtful trade receivables is predominantly collectively determined based on aging and is reviewed periodically. The aging of the gross trade receivables at the reporting date was as follows: December 31, 2014 December 31, 2013 Amounts in millions of EUR Gross Provision Gross Provision Amounts undue 308 2 332 10 Past due 0-30 days 113 2 152 6 Past due 31-60 days 30 3 52 8 Past due 61-90 days 17 3 33 6 Past due 91-180 days 48 15 108 17 Past due 181-270 days 13 6 17 11 Past due 271-360 days 13 6 16 6 More than one year 68 58 92 48 Total 610 95 802 112 [17] Other current financial assets At December 31, 2014, other current financial assets consist of held-to-maturity investments including bank deposits with initial maturities longer than three months, amounting to EUR 300 million (December 31, 2013: nil). These are classified as short-term investments in KPN’s Net Debt definition. Refer to Note 30 for further information. < Notes to Profit or Loss 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 Other Notes > KPN — Integrated Annual Report 2014 139 Key Consolidated Corporate Financial Notes to Notes to Financial Other Statements General Notes Profit or Loss Financial Position Other Notes Statements Information FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position [18] Cash and cash equivalents At December 31, 2014, cash and cash equivalents amounted to EUR 1,976 million (EUR 3,946 million at December 31, 2013). The decrease in KPN’s cash and cash equivalents mainly related to bond redemptions and redemption of Preference Shares B in the first half year of 2014 (EUR 1.7 billion), the bond tender executed in Q4 2014 (EUR 2.0 billion) and the consolidation of Reggefiber and related refinancing in Q4 2014 (EUR 1.3 billion). This was partly offset by the cash proceeds from the sale of E-Plus. KPN’s cash and cash equivalents as of December 31, 2014 consisted of highly liquid instruments, mainly deposits, repurchase agreements, interest-bearing bank accounts and money market funds. KPN’s cash balances have been invested with a wide range of strong counterparties. As of December 31, 2014, cash and cash equivalents included EUR 100 million in repurchase agreements which are fully collateralized. The fair value of the collateral amounted to EUR 103 million. The collateral consists of sovereign, supranational and agency debt with a minimum credit rating of A and corporate debt with a minimum rating of BBB, denominated in major currencies such as EUR, GBP and USD. In case of counterparty default, the collateral ownership would transfer to KPN and can be converted to cash. Cash and cash equivalents as at December 31, 2014 were for more than 99% (2013: 99%) denominated in the functional currency of the related entities. The effective interest rate on the outstanding bank deposits and money market funds as at December 31, 2014 was approximately 0.01%. On December 31, 2014, KPN’s total outstanding bank guarantees amounted to EUR 20 million (2013: EUR 52 million), which were issued in the ordinary course of business. Amounts in millions of EUR December 31, 2014 December 31, 2013 Cash 426 821 Short-term bank deposits, repurchase agreements and money market funds 1,550 3,125 Total cash and cash equivalents 1,976 3,946 Net cash and cash equivalents As of December 31, 2014 KPN’s net cash and cash equivalents position amounted to EUR 1,945 million as presented in the Cash Flow Statement: Amounts in millions of EUR December 31, 2014 December 31, 2013 Cash and cash equivalents 1,976 3,946 Bank overdraft -31 -326 Net cash and cash equivalents 1,945 3,620 [19] Non-current assets, liabilities and disposal groups held for sale Amounts in millions of EUR December 31, 2014 December 31, 2013 Intangible assets (including goodwill) – 5,976 Property, plant and equipment – 3,132 Other non-current assets 1 515 Current assets 7 401 Fair value adjustment of disposal group – -555 Total assets held for sale 8 9,469 Non-current liabilities 2 318 Current liabilities 11 1,220 Total liabilities directly associated with the non-current assets and disposal groups classified as held for sale 13 1,538 KPN has classified SNT Deutschland as ‘asset held for sale’ as of December 31, 2014. The classification as held for sale resulted in a total impairment of the book value of EUR 13 million of which EUR 5 million is recorded under the other operating expenses, EUR 6 million is recorded in depreciation, amortization and impairments, and EUR 2 million is part of the tax expense. At December 31, 2013, noncurrent assets, liabilities and disposal groups held for sale consisted of E-Plus. E-Plus On July 23, 2013, KPN announced it had entered into a transaction to sell and transfer 100% of its interest in E-Plus to Telefónica Deutschland. Since that date, E-Plus has been presented as disposal group held for sale and measured at fair value less costs to sell. Given the significance of E-Plus to KPN, E-Plus was considered a ‘discontinued operation’. All assets and liabilities of E-Plus have been presented separately on KPN’s Statement of Financial Position as of July 23, 2013 as ‘non-current assets of disposal groups classified as held for sale’ and ‘liabilities directly associated with non-current assets and disposal group held for sale’ until completion of the sale (October 1, 2014). The assets and liabilities of E-Plus continued to be accounted for in accordance with the relevant IFRS standards as before July 23, 2013 except that non-current assets held by E-Plus were no longer amortized or depreciated as of July 23, 2013. Results from E-Plus are reported as ‘profit/loss (-) for the period from discontinued operations’, separate from the results from KPN’s continuing operations as if E-Plus was classified as a discontinued operation as of January 1, 2013. Cash flows from E-Plus are reported as ‘cash flows from discontinued operations’ separate from cash flows from KPN’s continuing operations as if E-Plus was classified as a discontinued operation as of January 1, 2013. < Notes to Profit or Loss 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 Other Notes > 140 KPN — Integrated Annual Report 2014 Key Consolidated Corporate Financial Notes to Notes to Financial Other Statements General Notes Profit or Loss Financial Position Other Notes Statements Information The sale of E-Plus was completed on October 1, 2014 and on that date KPN sold and transferred 100% of its interest in E-Plus to Telefónica Deutschland. KPN received EUR 5 billion on a cash and debt free basis and a 20.5% stake in Telefónica Deutschland, initially valued at EUR 2,528 million on October 1, 2014, based on the share price of Telefónica Deutschland at completion of the sale. The 20.5% stake in Telefónica Deutschland is accounted for as a non-current available-for-sale financial asset. Refer to Note 13 for more information. KPN provided a call option to Telefónica to acquire a 2.9% stake in Telefónica Deutschland from KPN, one year after the sale of E-Plus (September 30, 2015), either partially or in full. The exercise price for the 2.9% stake amounts to EUR 510 million, plus interest at 2.27% from October 1, 2014 and reduced by any dividend payments on the 2.9% stake. Based on its fair value, for this call option KPN recognized a liability of EUR 5 million on October 1, 2014 (refer to Note 27). At year end 2014, KPN made a best estimate of the expected deal proceeds for the sale of E-Plus, including the Net Debt/Working Capital settlement that will be finalized in 2015. The upside and downside risk amounts to approximately 10% of the ‘Total loss for the period from discontinued operations’ for the year 2014. The following table presents the assets and liabilities of E-Plus at divestment date: Amounts in millions of EUR October 1, 2014 Intangible assets 6,047 Property, plant and equipment 3,709 Other non-current assets 46 Current assets 469 Non-current liabilities -373 Current liabilities -1,152 Fair value adjustment of disposal group -1,756 Net assets and liabilities 6,990 The following table summarizes the results of E-Plus included in the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss as ‘profit for the period from discontinued operations’. Amounts in millions of EUR 2014 2013 Revenues and other income 2,352 3,096 Operating expenses -1,621 -2,686 Finance income and expenses -23 -28 Share of the loss of associates and joint ventures -4 -10 Income taxes -515 -411 Result for the period from discontinued operations before impairment and tax effects resulting from the transaction 189 -39 Impairment disposal group -1,265 -555 Transaction costs -46 – Call option 2 – Impairment German deferred tax assets – -747 Income tax benefit Dutch fiscal unity 297 932 Tax effect resulting from the change of control – -99 Total profit (loss) for the period from discontinued operations -823 -508 The net cash flows of the disposal group ‘E-Plus’ are as follows: Amounts in millions of EUR 2014 2013 Cash flow from operating activities 312 927 Cash flow from investing activities 4,163 -660 Cash flow from financing activities -251 -172 Total net cash (outflow)/inflow from discontinued operations 4,224 95 [20] Equity attributable to equity holders For a breakdown of equity attributable to equity holders, reference is made to the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Group Equity. The total distributable reserves at December 31, 2014 amounted to EUR 4,004 million (2013: EUR 3,970 million). For further details of the non-distributable reserves, reference is made to the Corporate Financial Statements. Share capital After an amendment to the Articles of Association on March 21, 2014, KPN’s authorized capital stock totals EUR 720 million divided into 9 billion ordinary shares of EUR 0.04 each and 9 billion preference shares B of EUR 0.04 each. As of December 31, 2014, a total of 4,270,254,664 ordinary shares were outstanding and fully paid-in. Dutch laws prohibit KPN from casting a vote on shares KPN holds (treasury shares). The ordinary shares and preference shares B carry the right to cast one vote each. For a description of the preference shares B, please see ‘Foundation Preference Shares B KPN’ hereafter. The ordinary shares are registered or payable to bearer. Shareholders may request the Company to convert their registered shares to bearer shares but not vice versa. < Notes to Profit or Loss 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 Other Notes > KPN — Integrated Annual Report 2014 141 Key Consolidated Corporate Financial Notes to Notes to Financial Other Statements General Notes Profit or Loss Financial Position Other Notes Statements Information FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position On April 25, 2013, KPN set the terms of its EUR 3 billion rights issue, which was announced on February 20, 2013 and approved by the Annual General Meeting on April 10, 2013. KPN announced a 2 for 1 rights issue of 2,838,732,182 new ordinary shares with a nominal value of EUR 0.24 at an issue price of EUR 1.06 through the granting of transferable subscription entitlements to holders of ordinary shares in KPN’s issued and outstanding share capital pro rata to their shareholdings. The issue price represented a discount of 35.1% to the theoretical ex-rights price (TERP), based on the closing price of EUR 2.78 per ordinary share on April 24, 2013. At the end of the subscription period, the take-up amounted to 97.4% of the offer shares. The remaining offer shares were placed with institutional investors through a rump placement. Payment, delivery and start of trading of the offer shares occurred on May 17, 2013. The net proceeds from the rights issue amounted to EUR 2,957 million. Share premium The additional paid-in capital is exempt from Dutch tax up to an amount of EUR 10,598 million (2013: EUR 9,744 million). Other reserves Below is a detailed overview of the movements in the number of treasury shares and other reserves: Fair value reserve available-forCurrency Amounts in millions of EUR, Number of Treasury shares sale financial translation Total other unless indicated otherwise treasury shares reserve Hedge reserve assets reserve reserves Balance as of January 1, 2013 12,156,391 -138 -239 3 13 -361 Addition (net) – -155 – – -155 Exchange differences – – – – -1 -1 Balance as of December 31, 2013 12,156,391 -138 -394 3 12 -517 Addition (net) – – 1 122 – 123 Exchange differences – – – – 6 6 Balance as of December 31, 2014 12,156,391 -138 -393 125 18 -388 Hedge reserve Amounts in millions of EUR December 31, 2014 December 31, 2013 Effective portion cash flow hedges -438 -437 Amortizable part [6] -86 -87 Hedge reserve -524 -524 Tax effect 131 130 Hedge reserve, net of tax -393 -394 [..] Bracketed number refers to the related Note. Treasury shares and treasury shares reserve Until 2011, KPN purchased shares in its own capital for delivery upon exercise of share options by management and personnel under the share option and performance share plans (see Note 3). Votes on purchased shares may not be cast and they do not count towards determining the number of votes required at a General Meeting of Shareholders. In 2014 and 2013, no shares were purchased. Treasury shares are accounted for at cost, representing the market price on the acquisition date. The proceeds at delivery of the treasury shares are recognized directly in the other reserves. In the event that more options are exercised than available as treasury shares for option plans, KPN anticipates providing shares for equity-settled plans through the purchase of shares in the market. All rights with respect to repurchased treasury shares are suspended until those shares are delivered. Foundation Preference Shares B KPN KPN has granted a call option, which is not limited in time, to the Foundation Preference Shares B KPN (the Foundation), to acquire a number of preference shares B in KPN, which have the same voting rights as ordinary shares, not exceeding the total issued amount of ordinary shares, minus one share and minus any shares already issued to the Foundation. Upon exercise of the call option, 25% of the nominal value of the preference shares B needs to be paid by the Foundation. KPN’s Board of Management can decide to request the Foundation to pay the remainder. Such decision is subject to the approval of the Supervisory Board. It is noted that contractually, KPN also has a put option to sell to the Foundation a number of its preference shares B, not exceeding the total issued share capital before such issue or, subject to prior approval by the General Meeting of Shareholders, such larger number as the parties may agree. However, since October 12, 2006, the authority of the Board of Management to issue preference shares B under this put option has expired. This expiration does not affect the obligation to issue preference shares B upon exercise of the call option by the Foundation. On August 29, 2013, the Foundation exercised its call option and obtained 4,258,098,272 newly issued preference shares B in KPN, in order to safeguard the interests of KPN and its stakeholders as América Móvil announced its intention to make a public offer for all KPN shares on August 9, 2013, without prior consultation of KPN. Following a subsequent request by the Foundation, KPN’s Extraordinary General Meeting of Shareholders granted the requested approvals to cancel all outstanding preference shares B on January 10, 2014, < Notes to Profit or Loss 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 Other Notes > 142 KPN — Integrated Annual Report 2014 Key Consolidated Corporate Financial Notes to Notes to Financial Other Statements General Notes Profit or Loss Financial Position Other Notes Statements Information which cancellation became effective on March 21, 2014. The cancellation resulted in a repayment to the Foundation of the payment made, amounting to 25% of the nominal value of the preference shares B, increased by an amount similar to a dividend in proportion to the time the shares were outstanding. The right granted to the Foundation to acquire preference shares is unconditional and continuous, and the Foundation is therefore entitled to acquire Preference Shares B in the future. Under IFRS, the Preference Shares B do not meet the definition of equity and therefore the paid up amount was presented as a current liability (EUR 255 million) at December 31, 2013. Dividends due are recorded as financial expenses. KPN is of the opinion that neither the put option nor the call option represent a significant fair value as mentioned in IAS 1, paragraph 31 due to the fact that the put option can no longer be exercised by KPN and the fact that the Preference Shares B, issued after exercise of the call option, bear interest linked to EURIBOR. The options are therefore not accounted for in the annual accounts nor is any additional information disclosed as meant in IFRS 7. [21] Non-controlling interests In 2012, KPN acquired a stake in GroupIT B.V. of 12.5% at fair value with a right to acquire the remaining stake and thus obtained the control over GroupIT B.V. The amount of non-controlling interests at December 31, 2014 includes the 87.5% stake of other shareholders in GroupIT B.V. for an amount of EUR 58 million (2013: EUR 53 million). [22] Borrowings The carrying amounts and fair value of the borrowings at December 31 are as follows: December 31, 2014 December 31, 2013 Amounts in millions of EUR Carrying amount Fair value Carrying amount Fair value Eurobonds EUR 6,175 6,856 8,835 9,481 Eurobonds GBP 1,883 2,199 2,107 2,263 Global Bonds USD 1,117 1,170 1,037 937 Hybrid Bonds (GBP and USD) 1,000 1,052 905 947 Financial lease obligations 95 88 105 99 Bank overdraft 31 31 326 326 Preference Shares B – – 255 255 Other loans 140 160 93 96 Total borrowings 10,441 11,556 13,663 14,404 – of which: current 1,044 1,061 2,008 2,022 – of which: non-current 9,397 10,495 11,655 12,382 The fair value for Eurobonds and Global Bonds is based on the listed price of the bonds. KPN’s weighted average interest rate on the borrowings outstanding before swaps at December 31, 2014 was 5.8% (2013: 5.6%). The EUR perpetual hybrid bonds, classified as equity, have been included in this calculation. The weighted average interest rate after swaps was 5.3% (2013: 5.2%). Excluding all hybrid bonds, the average interest rate on the senior bond portfolio after swaps at December 31, 2014 was 5.0% (2013: 5.0%). For further details on borrowings, including a redemption schedule, reference is made to Note 30 ‘Financing Risk Management – Liquidity Risk’. Bonds On November, 7 2014, KPN completed a tender offer, in which KPN repurchased an aggregate principal amount of EUR 1.8 billion of eight of its Eurobonds with maturities between 2016 and 2024. The total cash-out for the tender amounted to EUR 2.0 billion, which was financed with available cash. The following table shows the original principal amount, the repurchased principal amount and the principal amount outstanding after the tender: Principal amount Carrying value after Amounts in millions in EUR, Original principal Repurchased principal outstanding after tender tender offer unless stated otherwise amount amount offer December 31, 2014 Eurobond 2008-2016 925 280 645 646 Eurobond 2006-2016 GBP 275 GBP 140 GBP 135 GBP 135 Eurobond 2006-2017 1,000 250 750 749 Eurobond 2007-2019 GBP 250 GBP 154 GBP 96 GBP 95 Eurobond 2010-2020 1,000 277 723 795 Eurobond 2012-2021 750 389 361 359 Eurobond 2012-2022 750 134 616 613 Eurobond 2009-2024 700 93 607 705 < Notes to Profit or Loss 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 Other Notes > KPN — Integrated Annual Report 2014 143 Key Consolidated Corporate Financial Notes to Notes to Financial Other Statements General Notes Profit or Loss Financial Position Other Notes Statements Information FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position Refer to Note 6 and Note 27 for information on the related finance costs and derivatives. On May 30, 2014, KPN redeemed EUR 650 million of the Eurobond 2007-2014, in accordance with the regular redemption schedule. On February 4, 2014, KPN redeemed EUR 750 million of the Eurobond 2009-2014, in accordance with the regular redemption schedule. On September 16, 2013, KPN redeemed EUR 545 million of the Eurobond 2008-2013, in accordance with the regular redemption schedule. On March 18, 2013, KPN redeemed EUR 540 million of the Eurobond 2006-2013, in accordance with the regular redemption schedule. Hybrid bonds On March 14, 2013, KPN issued a EUR 1.1 billion hybrid bond with a 6.125% coupon and a GBP 400 million hybrid bond with a 6.875% coupon (swapped to EUR 460 million and a 6.78% coupon for a period of seven years). On March 28, 2013, KPN issued a USD 600 million hybrid bond with a 7% coupon (swapped to EUR 465 million and a 6.34% coupon for a period of 10 years). The EUR 1.1 billion hybrid bond is a subordinated bond with a perpetual maturity, while the GBP 400 million and USD 600 million hybrid bonds are subordinated bonds with 60-year maturities. The EUR, GBP and USD hybrid bonds can, at KPN’s discretion, first be redeemed in September 2018, March 2020 and March 2023 respectively. KPN may, at its discretion and subject to certain conditions, elect to defer payments of interest on these hybrid bonds. The ratings for the hybrid bonds are BB by Standard & Poor’s, Ba2 by Moody’s and BB by Fitch Ratings. The rating agencies recognize 50% of the hybrid bonds as equity. The hybrid bonds are for 50% treated as equity and 50% as debt in KPN’s gross and net debt definitions. The EUR hybrid bond is classified as equity in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position (classified as perpetual hybrid bonds), while the GBP and USD hybrid bonds are classified as liabilities in the consolidated statement of financial position (classified as Borrowings). The hybrid bonds have been listed on Euronext Amsterdam. Preference Shares B On August 29, 2013, the Foundation Preference Shares B exercised its call option to subscribe for preference shares B in KPN for a total consideration of EUR 255 million. According to IFRS, the paid-up value is classified as current liability on KPN’s balance sheet. On March 21, 2014, KPN canceled the Preference Shares B against repayment to the Foundation Preference Shares B of the paid-up amount of EUR 255 million. The cancellation was approved by the Extraordinary General Meeting of Shareholders on January 10, 2014. Financial lease obligations As of December 31, 2014, the financial lease obligations amounted to EUR 95 million. Refer to Note 30 for more information. Credit rating KPN maintains credit ratings from Standard & Poor’s, Moody’s and Fitch. As of December 31, 2014, KPN had a credit rating of Baa3 with a stable outlook by Moody’s, BBBwith a stable outlook by Standard & Poor’s and BBBwith a stable outlook by Fitch. The table below shows the adjustments to the credit ratings during 2014 and 2013. Rating as at Credit rating agency December 31, 2014 Current outlook Adjustments 2014 Adjustments 2013 Standard & Poor’s BBBStable � None � February 8: rating changed to BBBwith stable outlook from BBB with credit watch negative � July 26: outlook changed to positive from stable � August 15: rating on credit watch positive � November 6: rating changed to BBBwith stable outlook from BBBwith credit watch positive Moody’s Baa3 Stable � March 28: rating changed to Baa3 � February 6: Baa2 rating confirmed with negative with stable outlook from Baa2 outlook following review for downgrade with negative outlook Fitch BBBStable � None � None < Notes to Profit or Loss 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 Other Notes > 144 KPN — Integrated Annual Report 2014 Key Consolidated Corporate Financial Notes to Notes to Financial Other Statements General Notes Profit or Loss Financial Position Other Notes Statements Information [23] Provisions for retirement benefit obligations The provisions for retirement benefit obligations consist of the net defined benefit liability regarding pension plans and early retirement plans which are accounted for as defined benefit plans. These plans are described below. KPN PF and KPN OPF KPN’s main pension plan in the Netherlands covers most employees who are subject to KPN’s collective labor agreement and is externally funded through ‘Stichting Pensioenfonds KPN’ (‘KPN PF’). The pension plan for senior management with an individual labor agreement in the Netherlands is externally funded through ‘Stichting Ondernemingspensioenfonds KPN’ (‘KPN OPF’). The benefits provided under these plans are based on the employee’s years of service and compensation level and consist of a defined benefit average pay plan for the salary up to EUR 45,378 per annum and a defined contribution part for the salary exceeding EUR 45,378 per annum. Furthermore, employees can opt to participate in an individual pension saving scheme. For accruals as of January 1, 2014, the retirement age has been increased from 65 to 67. Indexation of the pension benefits is conditional and depends on the fund’s financial position. These plans were accounted for as a defined benefit plan. The premiums KPN had to pay were based on the cost of accrual of pension benefits and a long-term horizon regarding the desired coverage ratio. Furthermore, KPN was required to make recovery payments when the coverage ratio of these plans was below approximately 105%. In 2014, the implementation of a Collective Defined Contribution pension plan (‘CDC pension plan’) was approved for both the KPN PF plan and the KPN OPF plan as of January 1, 2015. The new plans became effective as of January 1, 2015. The agreement entails the following: ýý KPN’s only obligation is to pay a contribution level that is an annual fixed percentage of the pensionable base to the KPN PF and KPN OPF. ýý the contribution level is fixed for a period of 5 years, commencing January 1, 2015. ýý KPN is released from its obligation to make recovery payments. ýý KPN made a one-off lump-sum cash payment of EUR 200 million to the KPN PF and EUR 30 million to the KPN OPF at the end of 2014. At the date of approval of the introduction of the new CDC pension plans, an amendment was recorded of the then existing pension plans and reduced the net defined benefit liability, in KPN’s Consolidated Statement of Financial Position, with EUR 467 million (EUR 451 million for KPN PF and EUR 16 million for KPN OPF). This release was recorded as a reduction of the pension expenses. Under the new CDC pension plans, as of January 1, 2015, KPN will have no other obligation than to pay the annual contribution and therefore these plans will be accounted for as defined contribution plans. The annual contribution, which is a fixed percentage of the pensionable base, will be reassessed after 5 years and will only be based on the cost of future benefit accrual. The risks related to past benefit accrual and the financial position of the pension funds are borne by the (former) employees. At December 31, 2014, after the lump-sum cash payments of EUR 230 million, the remaining pension provision relating to the KPN PF and KPN OPF were fully released (plan settlement). The plan settlement did not have a net impact on KPN’s profit or loss. SVG ‘Stichting Voorzieningsfonds Getronics’ (SVG) is the administrator of a number of pension plans of (former) employees of KPN Corporate Market BV (formerly Getronics) and related companies in the Netherlands. Retirement benefits are accrued by means of an individual savings account. For accruals as of January 1, 2013, the retirement age has been increased from 65 to 67. The annual accrual of the individual savings accounts is based on a defined contribution plan. At retirement age the accrued capital is converted into defined pension benefits. Indexation of the pension benefits is conditional and depends on the fund’s financial position. KPN accounted for these plans as defined benefit as KPN was exposed to certain (limited) risks due to a guaranteed return on investments of the individual savings accounts. In 2014, the board of the SVG and KPN reached an agreement to abolish the guaranteed return on investments and to transfer the active members to the KPN pension funds as of January 1, 2015. The active members will accrue benefits under the new CDC pension plan. As part of the agreement, KPN made a lump-sum payment of EUR 5 million. These amendments removed KPN’s exposure to risks and benefits of the SVG plans, except for the obligation to pay to the SVG administration expenses for participants who are employed by KPN or certain of its previously divested entities. The amount of administration expenses is linked to the value of the individual savings accounts and therefore the SVG plans will continue to be accounted for as a defined benefit plan. The release of the pension provision due to these amendments was EUR 10 million which was recorded as a reduction of the pension expenses. The pension provision remaining for the SVG plans at December 31, 2014 was EUR 18 million and is only for KPN’s obligation to reimburse administration expenses. KPN has no other obligation or risks related to these plans. < Notes to Profit or Loss 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 Other Notes > KPN — Integrated Annual Report 2014 145 Key Consolidated Corporate Financial Notes to Notes to Financial Other Statements General Notes Profit or Loss Financial Position Other Notes Statements Information FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position Getronics UK The Getronics UK operations were divested in 2012. The closed and frozen pension plan of the UK operations remained with KPN and is accounted for as a defined benefit plan. The assets of the plan are held separately from those of KPN in an independently administered fund. The plan operates under the regulations of the UK Pensions Regulator. The plan’s trustees are responsible for the stewardship of the plan. This includes the investment strategy, the investment of assets, the appointment of professional advisors, the consultation with the Pensions Regulator and KPN management, the collection of contributions, the payment of the plan expenses and the payment of benefits. The deficit in the plan’s funding must be recovered by the investment returns in the plans assets and the monthly contributions by KPN, agreed upon between the pension fund and KPN based on a triennial valuation performed by an independent qualified actuary. The UK pension plan exposes KPN to a number of risks which can have an impact on the future contributions by KPN and the liability recorded in its balance sheet. The most significant risks are summarized below: ýý Asset volatility: the pension plan‘s assets are invested in equity securities and therefore the plan’s funding level is exposed to equity market risks. ýý Interest rate risk: a decrease in interest rates will increase the plan’s liabilities and increases the plan’s deficit. ýý Inflation risk: indexation of the accrued benefits is unconditional and is based on a combination of consumer and retail price indices and therefore the plan is exposed to inflation risk. ýý Life expectancy: the plan provides benefits for the life of the members, so increases in life expectancy will result in an increase in the plan’s liabilities. Getronics US The Getronics US operations were divested in 2008. The closed and frozen pension plan of the US operations remained with KPN and is accounted for as a defined benefit plan. The assets of the plan are held separately from those of KPN in an independently administered fund. The plan operates under the provisions of Employee Retirement Income Security Act (ERISA). The plan’s Administrative and Benefits Committee is responsible for the proper running of the plan. This includes the collection of contributions, the investment of assets and payment of benefits. Until the plan is fully funded to 100% of liabilities, US funding rules require minimum quarterly contributions by KPN to recover to a fully funded position. No indexation of accrued benefits applies to this plan. The US pension plan exposes KPN to a number of risks which can have an impact on the future contributions by KPN and the liability recorded in its balance sheet. The most significant risks are summarized below: ýý Asset volatility: the pension plan’s assets are predominantly invested in equity securities and therefore the plan’s funding level is exposed to equity market risks. ýý Interest rate risk: a decrease in interest rates will increase the plan’s liabilities, although this will be partially offset by an increase in the value of the plan’s bond holdings. ýý Life expectancy: the plan provides benefits for the life of the members, so increases in life expectancy will result in an increase in the plan’s liabilities. KPN uses the funding relief provided by US law which reduces the magnitude and volatility of minimum required contributions by valuing the plan’s liabilities, for funding purposes, with a discount rate that is based on a corridor around a 25-year average corporate bond yield. The contributions are determined by an independent qualified actuary on the basis of an annual valuation. Other KPN has a number of other funded plans in the Netherlands, which are closed to new entrants, and in Belgium. The risks related to these plans are limited because the obligations are insured at external parties. The pension plans of E-Plus have been transferred to Telefónica Deutschland with the sale of E-Plus on October 1, 2014. KPN also has a number of early retirement plans, all in the Netherlands, which are unfunded. The risks related to these plans are also limited because of their short duration. < Notes to Profit or Loss 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 Other Notes > 146 KPN — Integrated Annual Report 2014 Key Consolidated Corporate Financial Notes to Notes to Financial Other Statements General Notes Profit or Loss Financial Position Other Notes Statements Information Net defined benefit liability (asset) The balance sheet position can be broken down as follows: Defined benefit obligation Fair value of plan assets Net defined benefit liability (asset) Amounts in millions of EUR 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 Balance as of January 1 9,453 9,771 -8,435 -8,216 1,018 1,555 Included in profit or loss: – Operating expense: current service costs 97 117 – – 97 117 past service cost (gain)2 -477 23 – -49 -477 -26 settlements -8,524 – 8,524 – – – administration cost – – 10 9 10 9 – Interest costs (income) 269 276 -246 -235 23 41 Total -8,635 416 8,288 -275 -347 141 Included in OCI Remeasurements loss (gain): – Actuarial loss (gain) arising from: demographic assumptions -3 -64 – – -3 -64 financial assumptions 1,609 -294 – – 1,609 -294 experience adjustment -107 -91 – – -107 -91 – Return on plan assets excluding interest income – – -1,458 72 -1,458 72 – Effect of movements in exchange rates 55 -16 -40 10 15 -6 Total 1,554 -465 -1,498 82 56 -383 Other Employer’s contribution – – -411 -244 -411 -244 Employees’ contribution 29 32 -29 -32 – – Benefits paid -269 -241 269 241 – – Transferred to held for sale – -60 – 9 – -51 Balance as of December 31 2,132 9,453 -1,816 -8,435 316 1,018 Of which: KPN PF – 6,690 – -6,045 – 645 KPN OPF – 772 – -733 – 39 SVG 1,288 1,147 -1,270 -1,125 18 22 Getronics UK 385 296 -252 -226 133 70 Getronics US 279 218 -195 -159 84 59 Other 180 330 -99 -147 81 183 Total 2,132 9,453 -1,816 -8,435 316 1,018 1) Includes E-Plus until ‘held for sale’ classification as of July 23, 2013. 2) In 2014, amendment gains were recorded for KPN PF (EUR 451 million), KPN OPF (EUR 16 million) and SVG (EUR 10 million). For an explanation, see the description of the pension plans above. In 2013, KPN and the trade unions agreed to amend the pension arrangements of KPN PF and KPN OPF to reflect new fiscal legislation. The retirement age for new benefit accruals as of January 1, 2014, has been increased to 67 and the annual accrual rate has been decreased from 2.25% to 2.15%. As a result of these amendments, KPN’s net defined benefit liability decreased by EUR 28 million. A corresponding gain has been recognized in the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss in 2013. Past service cost (gain) also includes the effects of the merger in 2013 of the SNT pension fund with KPN PF. As a result of the merger, the SNT plan is accounted for as a defined benefit plan leading to a past service cost of EUR 2 million. The measurement date for all defined benefit plans is December 31. Defined benefit obligations Actuarial assumptions The key actuarial assumptions used in the calculation of the defined benefit obligations are as follows: December 31, 2014 December 31, 2013 Getronics Getronics KPN PF/ Getronics Getronics SVG UK US Other OPF SVG UK US Other Discount rate (%) 1.4 3.3 3.2 1.4 3.2 3.1 4.7 4.0 1.8 Expected salary increases (%) n/a n/a n/a 1.9 2.0 2.0 n/a n/a 2.0 Expected benefit increases/indexation (%) 0.5 3.0-2.0 n/a 0.2 1.6 0.6 3.2-2.5 n/a 1.0 Life expectancy for pensioners at the age of 65 (years): – Male 22.0 23.0 21.2 22.2 21.9 22.3 23.0 20.3 22.7 – Female 23.2 25.0 23.3 23.4 23.6 23.2 25.0 22.6 23.8 < Notes to Profit or Loss 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 Other Notes > KPN — Integrated Annual Report 2014 147 Key Consolidated Corporate Financial Notes to Notes to Financial Other Statements General Notes Profit or Loss Financial Position Other Notes Statements Information FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position For the amendment calculation of KPN PF in 2014, a discount rate of 2.2% and expected benefit increases/indexation of 1.0% were used (all other assumptions unchanged compared to December 31, 2013). The discount rate is based on yield curves of AA corporate bonds with maturities equal to the duration of the benefit obligations and in the applicable currency. At December 31, 2014, the (weighted) average duration of the defined benefit obligation was 18 years. Assumptions regarding life expectancy are based on published statistics and mortality tables that include allowances for future improvement in mortality. The mortality table used in the Netherlands is the projected table AG 2014 which includes projected improvement rates varying by year of birth, corrected for fund specific circumstances. For example, the life expectancy at the age of 65 is expected to increase in the next 20 years with approximately 2 years. The mortality table used in the UK is the S1PXA 90% loading/ CMI 2013 projection with a 1.0% long term improvement and in the US the RP-2014 Generational Scale MP table. Sensitivity analysis The table below shows the approximate impact on the defined benefit obligation as at December 31, 2014 of a change in the key actuarial assumptions of 0.5% and in the case of life expectancy of a change of 1 year. Amounts in millions of EUR Increase Decrease Discount rate -62 70 Expected salary increases 2 -2 Expected benefit increases 38 -35 Life expectancy 20 -20 The sensitivities in the table above were estimated by actuaries based on the defined benefit obligations per December 31, 2014 and exclude plans in SVG because there is no (net) impact on the net defined benefit liability in KPN’s Consolidated Statement of Financial Position and no associated risk for KPN. If more than one of the assumptions change, the impact would not necessarily be equal to the total impact of changes in those assumptions in isolation. Plan assets The assets of all defined benefit pension plans at December 31, 2014 and 2013 consisted of the following (in millions of EUR): December 31, 2014 December 31, 2013 Quoted Unquoted Total Quoted Unquoted Total Equity securities – Europe 217 – 217 1,301 – 1,301 – North America 385 – 385 1,556 – 1,556 – Asia 18 – 18 669 – 669 – South America 101 – 101 88 – 88 – Other 67 – 67 165 – 165 – Total 788 – 788 44% 3,779 – 3,779 45% Fixed Income securities including inflation linked bonds (per Standard & Poor’s rating) – AAA 124 – 124 772 – 772 – AA 195 – 195 292 – 292 –A 156 – 156 549 – 549 – BBB 89 – 89 742 – 742 – < BBB 127 – 127 314 – 314 – no rating 97 – 97 136 217 353 – Total 788 – 788 44% 2,805 217 3,022 36% Real estate1 – 25 25 1% 127 397 524 6% Commodities2 7 – 7 – 299 – 299 3% Derivatives3 – 43 43 2% – 476 476 6% Other (including insurance contracts) 54 111 165 9% 193 142 335 4% Total 1,637 179 1,816 100% 7,203 1,232 8,435 100% 1) At December 31, 2014, all investments in real estate are located in Europe (2013: 90%). 2) Includes investment funds which invest in financial instruments related to commodities such as energy, agricultural products and precious metals. 3) Includes interest rate swaps, interest rate swaptions and put options on equity securities. Reference is made to the description of the strategic investment policies for an explanation of the use of these financial derivatives. < Notes to Profit or Loss 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 Other Notes > 148 KPN — Integrated Annual Report 2014 Key Consolidated Corporate Financial Notes to Notes to Financial Other Statements General Notes Profit or Loss Financial Position Other Notes Statements Information Strategic investment policies The strategic investment portfolios at the end of 2014 of the defined benefit plans (before hedging) were as follows: Other plans (weighted SVG Getronics UK Getronics US average) Equity securities 37% 100% 65% – Fixed income securities (including inflation linked bonds) 59% – 35% – Real estate 4% – – – Other – – – 100% Total 100% 100% 100% 100% The SVG’s investment strategy is determined based on an asset-liability management (ALM) study in consultation with investment advisers and within the boundaries given by the regulatory body for pension funds (in the Netherlands, the regulatory body is ‘De Nederlandsche Bank’). The SVG uses interest rate swaps to mitigate the interest rate risk on the obligations (on local funding basis). Around 60% of the interest rate risk is effectively hedged. Currency risks on the main foreign currencies are fully hedged for the total portfolio. The risks of a decline in equity prices are not hedged. A decline in the value of the SVG’s assets has no risk for KPN as KPN has no other obligation than to reimburse administration expenses related to the SVG plans. In the UK, a roadmap is in place to shift from investments in equity securities to fixed income securities, when the coverage ratio reaches certain thresholds. In the US, KPN seeks to grow the funded status of the main pension plan to a level of 95% to 100% of the economic value of the plan’s liability value within a five-to-seven year time period. The Getronics UK and US pension funds do not hedge interest rate risks, currency risks and equity risks. As the pension funds mainly invest in the global investment funds, a minor part of these investments could be related to KPN equities. Expected contributions and benefits In 2014, the total employer’s contributions and benefit payments for all defined benefit plans (including for the whole year KPN PF and KPN OPF whose plans were transferred into (collective) defined contribution plans) amounted to EUR 411 million, consisting of EUR 235 million settlement payments for KPN PF, KPN OPF and SVG, EUR 84 million for employer’s defined benefit premiums (an amount of EUR 17 million was prepaid in 2013), EUR 55 million benefit payments for unfunded plans and a EUR 37 million guarantee payment at SVG. The contributions for defined contribution plans amounted to EUR 3 million (excluding discontinued operations). The amount of employer’s contributions in 2015 for the remaining defined benefit pension plans is estimated to be EUR 44 million for both funded and unfunded plans. The total amount of employer’s premiums to be paid in 2015 for the defined contribution plans is estimated to be EUR 91 million. Due to the transfer to collective defined contribution arrangements, KPN is no longer obliged to make recovery payments as of January 1, 2015 for KPN PF and KPN OPF. [24] Provisions for other liabilities and charges Amounts in millions of EUR December 31, 2014 December 31, 2013 Restructuring provision 76 95 Asset retirement obligations 67 66 Other provisions 61 122 Balance 204 283 – of which: non-current 136 163 – of which: current 68 120 Restructuring provision The restructuring provision consists of the following components: Amounts in millions of EUR 2014 2013 Personnel (redundancy obligations) 35 50 Contractual obligations 41 45 Restructuring provision 76 95 Of the restructuring provision, an amount of EUR 45 million has a term of less than one year (2013: EUR 60 million), EUR 18 million of provisions has a term of between one and five years (2013: EUR 35 million) and EUR 13 million has a term of more than five years. < Notes to Profit or Loss 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 Other Notes > KPN — Integrated Annual Report 2014 149 Key Consolidated Corporate Financial Notes to Notes to Financial Other Statements General Notes Profit or Loss Financial Position Other Notes Statements Information FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position The movements in the restructuring provision are as follows: Personnel Contractual Total Balance as of January 1, 2013 111 51 162 – of which: current portion 111 20 131 Additions 109 18 127 Releases -11 – -11 Usage -151 -17 -168 Transferred to held for sale -8 -7 -15 Balance as of December 31, 2013 50 45 95 – of which: current portion 50 10 60 Additions 84 15 99 Releases -12 -3 -15 Usage -83 -15 -98 Transferred to held for sale -4 -1 -5 Balance as of December 31, 2014 35 41 76 – of which: current portion 35 10 45 Personnel (redundancy obligations) During 2014 and 2013, KPN continued to substantially reduce its staff. The restructuring provision relating to FTE reduction amounted to EUR 35 million as at December 31, 2014. A total amount of EUR 84 million is added to the restructuring provision. Asset retirement obligations Amounts in millions of EUR 2014 2013 Balance as of January 1 66 303 Additions 1 – Usage -1 -2 Changes in assumptions 5 -29 Release -4 -54 Unwinding of discount and changes in discount rate through profit or loss 1 4 Transferred to held for sale -1 -156 Balance as of December 31 67 66 – of which: current 1 2 The asset retirement obligations at December 31, 2014 amounted to EUR 67 million (2013: EUR 66 million), of which EUR 17 million (2013: EUR 31 million) has a term of less than five years. The main assumptions of calculation for the asset retirement obligations relate to the estimated costs of removal, discount rate and estimated period of removal, which vary per type of asset. The discount rate for 2014 is 1.5% (2013: 2.5%). As defined in the Telecommunications Act, the obligation for landlords to tolerate cables which are part of a public electronic communications network terminates as soon as those cables have been idle for a continuous period of 10 years. In that situation, a public electronic communications network supplier is required to remove cables on request by a landlord. Due to the fact that the date when the cables will become idle is uncertain and KPN is not able to predict whether and when a landlord will place a request for removal, KPN is not able to make a reliable estimate of the impact and no provision was recognized at December 31, 2014. < Notes to Profit or Loss 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 Other Notes > 150 KPN — Integrated Annual Report 2014 Key Consolidated Corporate Financial Notes to Notes to Financial Other Statements General Notes Profit or Loss Financial Position Other Notes Statements Information Other provisions The movements in other provisions are as follows: Amounts in millions of EUR 2014 2013 Balance as of January 1 122 108 Additions 32 87 Usage -97 -53 Transferred to held for sale – -20 Other movements 4 – Balance as of December 31 61 122 – of which: current 22 57 Other provisions relate to various risks and commitments, claims and litigations (refer to Note 32) and onerous contracts. Of the Other provisions, approximately EUR 22 million had a term of less than one year (2013: EUR 57 million), EUR 3 million had a term of between one and five years (2013: EUR 34 million) and EUR 36 million had a term of more than five years (2013: EUR 31 million). [25] Other payables and deferred income (non-current) Amounts in millions of EUR December 31, 2014 December 31, 2013 Non-interest-bearing accruals 21 26 Deferred income 27 31 Cash-settled share plans 3 1 Other payables 13 19 Total 64 77 Deferred income concerns amounts received in advance for deferred connections fees and other revenues that will be recognized in the future. [26] Trade and other payables (current) Amounts in millions of EUR December 31, 2014 December 31, 2013 Trade payables 819 1,091 Deferred income 309 351 Accrued interest 268 395 Accrued expenses 879 748 Social security and other taxes payable 223 230 Other payables 61 112 Total 2,559 2,927 Deferred income (current) mainly concerns amounts billed in advance for fixed fees and subscriptions that will be recognized within 12 months. < Notes to Profit or Loss 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 Other Notes > KPN — Integrated Annual Report 2014 151 Key Consolidated Corporate Financial Notes to Notes to Financial Other Statements General Notes Profit or Loss Financial Position Other Notes Statements Information FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss [27] Derivative financial instruments Derivative financial instruments (valued at fair value) can be broken down as follows: Amounts in millions of EUR December 31, 2014 December 31, 2013 Assets 328 117 Non-current 328 117 Current – – Liabilities -198 -763 Non-current -191 -753 Current -7 -10 Total derivative financial instruments 130 -646 – of which: call/put arrangements Reggefiber Group B.V. (net) – -334 – of which: designated in a hedge relationship 131 -310 – of which: call option Telefónica Deutschland -3 – – of which: forward exchange contracts 1 -1 – of which: other derivative financial instruments not designated in a hedge relationship 1 -1 The ineffective portion of the fair value hedges and cash flow hedges during 2014 recognized in the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss resulted in a loss of EUR 7 million (2013: EUR 3 million gain). In 2014, the call/put arrangements regarding Reggefiber Group B.V. were exercised (2013: EUR 334 million net liability). Refer to Notes 30 and 31 for more information. KPN reports its derivatives positions on the balance sheet on a gross basis. Part of the derivatives portfolio is subject to master netting agreements that allow netting under certain circumstances. If netting had been applied, the total derivatives asset position would be EUR 161 million and the total derivatives liability position would be EUR 31 million at December 31, 2014 (asset position of EUR 20 million and liability position of EUR 666 million at December 31, 2013). The call option KPN provided to Telefónica to acquire a 2.9% stake in Telefónica Deutschland from KPN, exercisable for EUR 510 million one year after the sale of E-Plus, either partially or in full, is recognized as a non-current liability of EUR 3 million as of December 31, 2014 (refer to Note 19). Bonds denominated in foreign currency All bonds denominated in foreign currencies are hedged with cross-currency swaps. The swaps are used to mitigate the exposure on currency risk and interest rate risk. KPN hedged the currency exposure by effectively fixing the counter value in foreign currency to Euro and by hedging the interest rate exposure by swapping the fixed interest rates in foreign currency to fixed rates in Euro. The hedges are until maturity of the underlying senior bonds, or until the first call date in case of the hybrid bonds. For these hedges, KPN meets the criteria of, and also applies, cash flow hedge accounting. KPN determines the effectiveness of the hedges at inception and on a quarterly basis. KPN uses the dollar offset method for its cash flow hedges related to cross-currency swaps. < Notes to Profit or Loss 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 Other Notes > 152 KPN — Integrated Annual Report 2014 Key Consolidated Corporate Financial Notes to Notes to Financial Other Statements General Notes Profit or Loss Financial Position Other Notes Statements Information An overview of the cross-currency swaps at December 31, 2014 and December 31, 2013 is presented below (in millions): Nominal (receive) Coupon (receive) Nominal (pay) Coupon (pay) Maturity date Fair value in EUR1 2014 GBP 135 5.75%, annual EUR 158 4.89%, annual March 18, 2016 16 GBP 96 6.0%, annual EUR 123 4.58%, annual May 29, 2019 1 GBP 400 6.875%, annual EUR 460 6.78%, annual March 14, 2020 35 USD 600 7.0%, semi-annual EUR 465 6.34%, semi-annual March 28, 2023 -15 GBP 400 5.0%, annual EUR 467 5.02%, annual November 11, 2026 -5 GBP 850 5.75%, annual EUR 971 5.73%, annual September 17, 2029 14 USD 1,000 8.375%, semi-annual EUR 756 8.56%, semi-annual October 1, 2030 -154 Total -108 2013 GBP 275 5.75%, annual EUR 328 4.89%, annual March 18, 2016 3 GBP 250 6.0%, annual EUR 290 5.12%, annual May 29, 2019 8 GBP 400 6.875%, annual EUR 460 6.78%, annual March 14, 2020 -5 USD 600 7.0%, semi-annual EUR 465 6.34%, semi-annual March 28, 2023 -65 GBP 400 5.0%, annual EUR 467 5.02%, annual November 11, 2026 -36 GBP 850 5.75%, annual EUR 971 5.80%, annual September 17, 2029 -63 USD 1,000 8.375%, semi-annual EUR 756 8.56%, semi-annual October 1, 2030 -244 Total -402 1) Negative amounts are liabilities. Following the bond tender in November 2014, KPN settled a cross-currency swap with a notional of GBP 140 million related to the GBP 2016 bond and a cross-currency swap with a notional of GBP 250 million related to the GBP 2019 bond. KPN terminated hedge accounting for these two swaps. The remaining outstanding notional of the GBP 2019 bond of GBP 96 million has been fixed with a new swap to a counter value of EUR 123 million with a fixed EUR coupon of approximately 4.58% per annum. KPN applies hedge accounting for this new swap. Part of KPN’s derivatives portfolio contains reset clauses or collateral postings at pre-agreed dates (reference is made to Note 30). Bonds denominated in EURO Since 2011, the Eurobonds with maturities on September 21, 2020 (notional EUR 1.0 billion before the tender offer), October 4, 2021 (notional EUR 500 million) and September 30, 2024 (notional EUR 700 million before the tender offer) have been swapped to a floating rate based on three-month Euribor using fixed-to-floating interest swaps. At inception, the first two years have been fixed with a floating-to-fixed interest rate swap. In subsequent quarters, KPN entered into additional forward starting swaps to maintain a horizon of fixed interest rates of at least one year. For the fixed-to-floating interest rate swaps, KPN meets the criteria of, and also applies, hedge accounting. KPN determines the effectiveness of these fair value hedges at inception and on a quarterly basis, based on a regression method. KPN is not allowed to apply hedge accounting for the above-mentioned floating-to-fixed swaps, which are held at fair value through profit and loss. During 2014, KPN booked a loss in the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss of EUR 1 million (2013: EUR 17 million gain). < Notes to Profit or Loss 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 Other Notes > KPN — Integrated Annual Report 2014 153 Key Consolidated Corporate Financial Notes to Notes to Financial Other Statements General Notes Profit or Loss Financial Position Other Notes Statements Information FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss An overview of the interest rate swaps at December 31, 2014 and December 31, 2013 is presented below (in millions). Nominal Currency Maturity date Pay Receive Hedge accounting Fair value in EUR 2014 710 EUR September 21, 2020 Floating Fixed Fair value 75 500 EUR October 4, 2021 Floating Fixed Fair value 66 595 EUR September 30, 2024 Floating Fixed Fair value 97 Total 238 Nominal Currency Maturity date Pay Receive Hedge accounting Fair value in EUR 2013 1,000 EUR September 21, 2020 Floating Fixed Fair value 43 500 EUR October 4, 2021 Floating Fixed Fair value 26 700 EUR September 30, 2024 Floating Fixed Fair value 23 Total 92 Nominal Currency Maturity date Pay Receive Hedge accounting Fair value in EUR 2014 710 EUR September 21, 2016 Fixed Floating None -4 600 EUR September 30, 2015 Fixed Floating None -3 500 EUR October 4, 2016 Fixed Floating None -3 Total -10 Nominal Currency Maturity date Pay Receive Hedge accounting Fair value in EUR 2013 1,000 EUR September 21, 2016 Fixed Floating None -5 700 EUR September 30, 2015 Fixed Floating None -4 500 EUR October 4, 2016 Fixed Floating None -3 Total -12 Reggefiber As of December 31, 2014, Reggefiber has floating-to-fixed interest rate swaps with a notional of EUR 26 million. These swaps are related to an amortizing floating-rate loan and are held at fair value through profit and loss in KPN’s Consolidated Financial Statements. Foreign exchange contracts The fair value of foreign exchange exposure hedge contracts is determined using market forward exchange rates at the balance sheet date. Amounts in millions of EUR Contract volume 2014 Fair value 2014 Contract volume 2013 Fair value 2013 Term shorter than 1 year 114 1 104 -1 Term longer than 1 year – – – – Total 114 1 104 -1 For further details on derivative financial instruments, reference is made to Note 30. < Notes to Profit or Loss 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 Other Notes > 154 KPN — Integrated Annual Report 2014 Key Consolidated Corporate Financial Notes to Notes to Financial Other Statements General Notes Profit or Loss Financial Position Other Notes Statements Information Other Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements [28] Net cash flow used in investing activities In 2014, the amount of acquisitions of subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows mainly consisted of the acquisition of an additional 49% of the shares in Reggefiber for a total amount of EUR 771 million less cash acquired of EUR 40 million (refer also to Note 31). Disposals of subsidiaries, associates and available-for-sale financial assets in 2013 related to the sale of Infrastructure Services & Partners B.V. (EUR 26 million) and Compucom (EUR 27 million). The proceeds from the sale of E-Plus in 2014 of EUR 4,516 million (net of cash transferred) are included in net cash flow from investing activities from discontinued operations (refer also to Note 19). Investments in intangible assets (excluding software) in 2013 includes a payment of EUR 1,352 million relating to obtained frequency licenses in the Dutch spectrum auction, which took place at the end of 2012. Loans to associates and joint ventures in 2014 and 2013 mainly concerned shareholder loans provided to Reggefiber until consolidation as of November 1, 2014. Held-to-maturity investments in 2014 are bank deposits with initial maturities of longer than three months (refer also to Note 17). [29] Net cash flow used in financing activities On December 1, 2014, KPN early redeemed EUR 499 million of loans outstanding at Reggefiber. On November 7, 2014, KPN completed a tender offer, in which KPN repurchased an aggregate principal amount of EUR 1,799 million of eight of its Eurobonds with maturities between 2016 and 2024. Including tender premiums and fees, the bonds were repurchased for a total amount of EUR 2,034 million (excluding accrued interest of EUR 52 million). KPN also settled certain interest rate swaps and cross-currency swaps related to the Eurobonds maturing in 2016, 2019, 2020 and 2024, which resulted in a cash inflow of EUR 76 million (including accrued interest of EUR 4 million). The tender was financed with available cash. Scheduled bond redemptions and the issuance of hybrid bonds resulted in net financing cash flows during 2013 and 2014. Reference is made to Note 22 for further details. < Notes to Financial Position 28 29 30 31 32 33 34 35 Corporate Financial Statements > KPN — Integrated Annual Report 2014 155 Key Consolidated Corporate Financial Notes to Notes to Financial Other Statements General Notes Profit or Loss Financial Position Other Notes Statements Information FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Other Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements [30] Capital and Financial Risk Management Capital management Financing policy KPN is committed to strive for the right balance between a prudent financing policy, investments in the business and shareholder remuneration. KPN is committed to an investment grade credit profile. It is KPN’s policy to utilize its excess cash for operational and financial flexibility, (small) in-country mergers and acquisitions and/or shareholder remuneration. The table below shows the calculation of KPN’s Net Debt/EBITDA ratio, which is based on numbers including E-Plus until its sale on October 1, 2014. Therefore, a number of corrections were made to the borrowings in Note 22 (which excludes E-Plus) in order to arrive at the Net Debt for the Net Debt/EBITDA calculation. Amounts in millions of EUR 2014 2013 Total borrowings (carrying values, excluding derivatives, excluding E-Plus) [22] 10,441 13,663 Financial leases E-Plus – 352 Bank overdraft (included in net cash and cash equivalents) [18] -31 -326 Perpetual hybrid bonds (issued in EUR) 1,100 1,100 50% equity credit for hybrid bonds -1,013 -1,013 Cash collateral on derivatives -100 -6 Difference between carrying value and nominal value -821 -367 Adjusted gross debt 9,576 13,403 Cash and cash equivalents (including held for sale) 1,976 3,946 Bank overdraft -31 -326 Net cash and cash equivalents 1,945 3,620 Short-term investments 300 – Net Debt 7,331 9,783 Normalized EBITDA 2,662 3,994 Net Debt/EBITDA 2.8x 2.4x [..] Bracketed numbers refer to the related Notes. KPN defines EBITDA as operating result before depreciation and impairments of property, plant and equipment and amortization and impairments of intangible assets. Note that KPN’s definition of EBITDA deviates from the literal definition of earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for analyses of the results as reported under IFRS. In the Net Debt/EBITDA ratio, KPN defines Net Debt as the nominal value of interest-bearing financial liabilities excluding derivatives and related collateral, representing the net repayment obligations in EUR, taking into account 50% of the nominal value of the hybrid capital instruments, less net cash and short-term investments, and defines normalized EBITDA as a 12-month rolling total excluding restructuring costs, incidentals and major changes in the composition of the Group (acquisitions and disposals). Shareholder remuneration policy KPN is committed to strive for the right balance between a prudent financing policy, investments in the business and shareholder remuneration. KPN did not pay dividends over 2013, nor did it return excess cash to shareholders in another way. KPN recommenced dividend payments subsequent to the sale of E-Plus. KPN declared an interim dividend in respect of 2014 of EUR 0.02 per share, or in total EUR 85 million, which was paid on October 13, 2014. KPN intends to pay a total dividend per share of EUR 0.07 in respect of 2014. The final dividend of EUR 0.05 per share is expected to be paid in April 2015. KPN announced it would pay a total dividend per share of EUR 0.08 in respect of 2015. This policy may change and is based on a number of assumptions concerning future events and is subject to uncertainties and risks that are outside KPN’s control. < Notes to Financial Position 28 29 30 31 32 33 34 35 Corporate Financial Statements > 156 KPN — Integrated Annual Report 2014 Key Consolidated Corporate Financial Notes to Notes to Financial Other Statements General Notes Profit or Loss Financial Position Other Notes Statements Information Financial risk management KPN is exposed to a variety of financial risks. The overall risk management program focuses on the unpredictability of financial markets and seeks to minimize potential adverse effects on KPN’s financial position and performance. KPN uses derivative financial instruments to hedge certain risk exposures. The financial risks are managed by KPN’s Treasury department under policies approved by the Board of Management. These policies are established to identify and analyze financial risks faced by KPN, to set appropriate risk limits and controls, and to monitor adherence to those limits. Treasury manages these risks in close cooperation with the Group companies, business operations and other corporate departments. During 2013 and 2014, several Treasury policies were reviewed and approved by the Board of Management. KPN’s key treasury risks are the following: ýý Credit risk and counterparty risk; ýý Liquidity risk; and ýý Market risk (currency risk and interest rate risk). In addition, KPN’s Treasury department provides cash management and funding services to the Group companies and business operations. This Note presents information about the Group’s exposure to each of the above-mentioned risks, the Group’s objectives, policies and processes for measuring and managing risks. Further quantitative disclosures are included throughout these Consolidated Financial Statements. The table below summarizes the Group’s financial assets and liabilities: December 31, 2014 December 31, 2013 Amounts in millions of EUR Carrying amount Fair value Carrying amount Fair value Financial assets Fair value through profit and loss: Derivatives – non-current [27] 328 328 117 117 Derivatives – current [27] – – – – Loans and receivables: Non-current receivables from financial leases [14] 2 2 3 3 Loans to associates and joint ventures [12] 19 19 453 453 Trade receivable [16] 514 514 690 690 Other receivables [16] 36 36 181 181 Other current financial assets [17] 300 300 – – Cash and cash equivalents [18] 1,976 1,976 3,946 3,946 Subtotal 3,175 3,175 5,390 5,390 Available-for-sale financial assets [13] 2,713 2,713 20 20 Total 5,888 5,888 5,410 5,410 Financial liabilities Fair value through profit and loss: Derivatives – non-current [27] 191 191 753 753 Derivatives – current [27] 7 7 10 10 Subtotal 198 198 763 763 Loans and borrowings: Borrowings [22] 10,441 11,556 13,663 14,404 Trade payables [26] 819 819 1,091 1,091 Other payables and accrued expenses and interest [26] 1,208 1,208 1,255 1,255 Subtotal 12,468 13,583 16,009 16,750 Total 12,666 13,781 16,772 17,513 [..] Bracketed numbers refer to the related Notes. < Notes to Financial Position 28 29 30 31 32 33 34 35 Corporate Financial Statements > KPN — Integrated Annual Report 2014 157 Key Consolidated Corporate Financial Notes to Notes to Financial Other Statements General Notes Profit or Loss Financial Position Other Notes Statements Information FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Other Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements The following table presents the Group’s financial assets and liabilities that were measured at fair value at December 31, 2014. Total Amounts in million of EUR Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Balance Assets Financial assets at fair value through profit and loss: Derivatives (cross-currency interest rate swap) – 74 – 74 Derivatives (interest rate swap) – 238 – 238 Other derivatives – 1 15 16 Available-for-sale financial assets: Listed securities 2,703 – – 2,703 Unlisted securities – – 10 10 Total assets 2,703 313 25 3,041 Liabilities Financial liabilities at fair value through profit and loss: Derivatives (cross-currency interest rate swap) – 182 – 182 Derivatives (interest rate swap) – 13 – 13 Other derivatives – 3 – 3 Total liabilities – 198 – 198 The following table presents the Group’s financial assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value at December 31, 2013. Total Amounts in million of EUR Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Balance Assets Financial assets at fair value through profit and loss: Derivatives (cross-currency interest rate swap) – 13 – 13 Derivatives (interest rate swap) – 93 – 93 Other derivatives – – 11 11 Available-for-sale financial assets: Listed securities 10 – – 10 Unlisted securities – – 10 10 Total assets 10 106 21 137 Liabilities Financial liabilities at fair value through profit and loss: Derivatives (cross-currency interest rate swap) – 415 – 415 Derivatives (interest rate swap) – 13 – 13 Other derivatives – 1 334 335 Total liabilities – 429 334 763 Fair value estimation The fair value of financial instruments traded in active markets is based on quoted market prices. If applicable, these instruments are included in Level 1. An instrument is included in Level 2 if the financial instrument is not traded in an active market and if the fair value is determined by using valuation techniques based on maximum use of observable market data for all significant inputs. For the derivatives used for hedging purposes, KPN uses the estimated fair value of financial instruments determined by using available market information and appropriate valuation methods, including relevant credit risks. The estimated fair value approximates to the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. KPN has its derivative instruments outstanding with financial institutions that had a credit rating equivalent to A3 or higher with Moody’s at December 31, 2014. If one or more of the significant inputs is not based on observable market data, the instrument is included in Level 3 and the fair value is estimated using models and other valuation methods. To the extent possible, the assumptions and inputs used take into account market pricing information and expectations. However, such information is by its nature subject to uncertainty. Changes arising as new information becomes available could impact income or other comprehensive income. The valuation of available-for-sale unlisted securities is based upon a discounted cash flow model. < Notes to Financial Position 28 29 30 31 32 33 34 35 Corporate Financial Statements > 158 KPN — Integrated Annual Report 2014 Key Consolidated Corporate Financial Notes to Notes to Financial Other Statements General Notes Profit or Loss Financial Position Other Notes Statements Information Other derivatives under financial liabilities at fair value through profit and loss in 2013 are the call/put arrangements of Reggefiber Group B.V. consisting of a call/put option to acquire an additional 9% stake in Reggefiber and a put option held by Reggeborgh to sell the remaining 40% of its shares in Reggefiber to KPN. These options are valued using a binominal tree approach and depend on the business performance of Reggefiber under various scenarios with different probabilities (combination of penetration rates, Capex per home passed), the probability of approval by Dutch competition authority ACM, discount rates and the conditions of the call/put arrangement itself. Based on realized business performance and management’s best estimate of the likelihood of possible scenarios and expected business performance, the value of the call/put arrangements at October 31, 2014 (the date control of Reggefiber was obtained after regulatory approval to acquire an additional 9% stake in Reggefiber through exercise of the call option) was EUR 493 million, at December 31, 2013, EUR 334 million and at January 1, 2013 EUR 278 million (liability). During 2014, the change in the value of the call/put arrangements resulted in a loss of EUR 159 million in the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss (2013: EUR 56 million). These options have been exercised in 2014 (refer to Note 31). The following table presents the net changes in ‘other derivatives’ in Level 3: Amounts in million of EUR 2014 2013 Balance as of January 1 334 278 Losses recognized in profit or loss [6, 31] 159 56 Exercise [31] -493 – Balance as of December 31 – 334 [..] Bracketed numbers refer to the related Notes. For other financial assets and liabilities, the following methods and assumptions were used to determine fair value: ýý Borrowings: based on the listed price of the bonds. ýý Cash, cash equivalents, other current financial assets, accounts receivable and payable, Preference Shares B: as the maturity of these financial instruments is short, the carrying value approximates to fair value. Listed securities in 2014 includes KPN’s 20.5% share in Telefónica Deutschland (refer to Note 13). Credit and counterparty risk KPN’s financial assets are subject to credit risk and counterparty risk. Credit risk arises from the possibility of asset impairment occurring when counterparties are unable to meet their obligations in transactions involving financial instruments. KPN sets limits for the maximum exposure per counterparty and investment periods, which are primarily based on minimum credit ratings. These policies have been reviewed and updated in 2014. It is KPN’s policy to invest cash balances with counterparties with a minimum credit rating equivalent to A3 at Moody’s. Cash balances used for working capital purposes can also reside at (local) banks with lower credit ratings. Following the policy update in 2014, KPN is allowed to invest excess cash with tenors up to 12 months, subject to certain conditions. Capital preservation is the main priority when investing excess cash. KPN spreads its cash and cash equivalents balances and derivatives over several counterparties. Separate limits are set for counterparties with limited credit risk such as the Dutch State. As of December 31, 2014, KPN only invested in deposits with maturities up to four months, AAA-rated money market funds and repurchase agreements with maturities up to three months. The majority of the cash balances at year end 2014 was invested in institutions with a credit rating equivalent to A3 at Moody’s or stronger. It is KPN’s policy only to engage into new derivative transactions with counterparties with a minimum credit rating equivalent to A2 at Moody’s. During 2014 and 2013, KPN monitored counterparty risk on a regular basis, based on the counterparty’s credit ratings and other metrics. These other metrics include Credit Default Swap (CDS) levels of the counterparties, levels of government ownership and the level of systemic importance to the banking system. In addition, KPN monitors concentration risk on investments in money market funds through the percentage of the total fund size owned. Credit risk on trade receivables is controlled using restrictive policies for customer acceptance. Credit management is focused on mobile services as the credit risk is considered to be the highest within this part of KPN’s business. Before accepting certain new customers in this segment, KPN requests credit watchers to provide credit management reports. In addition, KPN keeps track of the payment performance of customers. In case customers fail to meet set criteria, payment issues have to be solved before a new transaction with these customers will be entered into. Concentrations of credit risk with respect to trade receivables are limited due to the Group’s large and unrelated customer base. The Board of Management believes there is no additional credit risk provision required in excess of the allowance for doubtful receivables (see Note 16). Receivables relating to integrated, outsourced and managed ICT solutions are monitored on an individual basis. Reference < Notes to Financial Position 28 29 30 31 32 33 34 35 Corporate Financial Statements > KPN — Integrated Annual Report 2014 159 Key Consolidated Corporate Financial Notes to Notes to Financial Other Statements General Notes Profit or Loss Financial Position Other Notes Statements Information FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Other Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements is made to ‘Significant Accounting Policies – trade and other receivables’. KPN takes into account credit risk for the valuations of its derivatives portfolio, based on IFRS 13. As at December 31, 2014, KPN recorded a loss of EUR 7 million in the Comprehensive Statement of Income, related to interest rate swaps recorded as fair value hedges (2013: gain of EUR 3 million). As at December 31, 2014, and December 31, 2013, KPN recorded no gain or loss in Other Comprehensive Income, related to cross-currency swaps recorded as cash flow hedges. Guarantees The Group’s policy is to provide financial guarantees only to wholly-owned subsidiaries. As at December 31, 2014, KPN has parent guarantees (based on Article 403, Part 9, Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code) and bank guarantees outstanding to third parties for various Dutch wholly-owned subsidiaries. Maximum exposure to credit risk As KPN does not provide financial guarantees other than to wholly-owned subsidiaries, the carrying amount of financial assets represents the maximum credit exposure. The maximum exposure to credit risk at reporting date amounts to the total of the financial assets including cash (EUR 5,888 million at December 31, 2014 and EUR 5,410 million at December 31, 2013). Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will not be able to meet its financial obligations associated with financial instruments as they become due. The Group’s approach to managing liquidity is to ensure sufficient liquidity to meet its liabilities when due, under both normal and stressed conditions, without incurring unacceptable losses or risking damage to the Group. This means that KPN secures its bond redemptions well ahead. KPN has a EUR 2 billion syndicated credit facility maturing in 2018, with 14 banks, all of which have a rating of Baa2 or higher with Moody’s as at December 31, 2014. As of December 31, 2014, and December 31, 2013, KPN had no drawings on its credit facility. The table below provides a maturity analysis of the financial liabilities based on the remaining contractual maturities as of December 31, 2014. Borrowings Derivatives Trade and other Derivatives Derivatives payables Interest on Financial inflow outflow and Bonds and bonds and lease Other (including (including accrued Amounts in millions of EUR loans1 loans2 obligations debt interest) interest) expenses Total 2015 1,004 476 12 32 -288 231 1,759 3,226 2016 823 435 10 5 -461 382 – 1,194 2017 755 383 8 – -276 212 – 1,082 2018 5 348 7 – -276 212 – 296 2019 879 347 7 – -400 335 – 1,168 2020 and subsequent years 6,352 1,944 51 – -5,270 4,692 – 7,769 Contractual cash flows 9,818 3,933 95 37 -6,971 6,064 1,759 14,735 1) The GBP and USD hybrid bonds are included with final maturities in 2073 (redemption of EUR 1,008 million). The EUR perpetual hybrid bond is not included as it has no stated maturity date. Please see Note 22 for more information on the hybrid bonds. 2) Interest payments on the GBP and USD hybrid bonds (EUR 70 million per year until the first call date in 2018) are not included. KPN may, at its discretion and subject to certain conditions, elect to defer payments of interest on these hybrid bonds. Any arrears of interest must be paid at redemption at the latest, the amount of which cannot be reliably measured because of the duration of the hybrid bonds. The undiscounted value of the financial lease obligations amounts to EUR 95 million at December 31, 2014 (2013: EUR 105 million). The financial lease obligations primarily include lease obligations for buildings leased by KPN (see also Note 11) and handsets. In some of these lease arrangements for buildings, an option is included to extend the lease term. < Notes to Financial Position 28 29 30 31 32 33 34 35 Corporate Financial Statements > 160 KPN — Integrated Annual Report 2014 Key Consolidated Corporate Financial Notes to Notes to Financial Other Statements General Notes Profit or Loss Financial Position Other Notes Statements Information The table below provides a maturity analysis of the financial liabilities based on the remaining contractual maturities as of December 31, 2013. Borrowings Derivatives Trade and other Derivatives Derivatives payables Interest on Financial inflow outflow and Bonds and bonds and lease Other (including (including accrued Amounts in millions of EUR loans1 loans2 obligations debt3 interest) interest) expenses Total 2014 1,400 619 14 595 -300 261 1,951 4,540 2015 1,000 542 12 13 -299 256 – 1,524 2016 1,255 502 9 13 -625 574 – 1,728 2017 1,000 423 8 6 -275 226 – 1,388 2018 – 375 7 647 -275 226 – 980 2019 and subsequent years 7,939 2,246 55 – -5,406 5,224 – 10,058 Contractual cash flows 12,594 4,707 105 1,274 -7,180 6,767 1,951 20,218 1) The GBP and USD hybrid bonds are included with final maturities in 2073 (redemption of EUR 915 million). The EUR perpetual hybrid bond is not included as it has no stated maturity date. Please see Note 21 for more information on the hybrid bonds. 2) Interest payments on the GBP and USD hybrid bonds (EUR 63 million per year until the first call date in 2018) are not included. KPN may, at its discretion and subject to certain conditions, elect to defer payments of interest on these hybrid bonds. Any arrears of interest must be paid at redemption at the latest, the amount of which cannot be reliably measured because of the duration of the hybrid bonds. 3) Including redemptions on bank overdraft facilities, Preference Shares B, spectrum payments and the Reggefiber call/put arrangements. The Reggefiber call/put arrangements assume exercise of option 2 for EUR 161 million in 2014 and the put arrangement in 2018 for a fixed cash out of EUR 647 million. The timing of the cash out regarding the Reggefiber call/put options as shown above is indicative as the timing of the exercise of these options is uncertain. See Note 12 for an explanation of the Reggefiber option triggers and the related cash flows. At December 31, 2013, the Reggefiber call/put arrangements were valued at a negative amount of EUR 334 million and included in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position under derivative financial instruments (see Note 27). Part of KPN’s derivatives portfolio contains reset clauses or collateral postings at pre-agreed dates, in order to mitigate counterparty exposure during the life of the swap. These reset clauses will result in early Euro settlement obligations in cash with the swap counterparty, which could lead to additional cash inflows or outflows before maturity. During 2014, KPN posted collateral of EUR 94 million (2013: EUR 6 million), according to pre-agreed settlement schedules. In order to reduce liquidity risks, the reset clauses or collateral postings of these derivatives are spread over different points in time and are not more frequent than every two years per swap, except for one counterparty. With regard to other purchase and capital commitments, reference is made to Note 32. Available financing sources 2014 As of December 31, 2014, KPN held a net cash and cash equivalents position amounting to EUR 1,945 million and short-term investments of EUR 300 million. In principle, net cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments are at disposal to KPN on a group level, except for limited amounts of cash held at local subsidiaries. In addition to the available cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments, cash flows from operations and cash flows from any further sales of non-core assets, KPN has the following financing resources available: EUR 2.0 billion multi-currency revolving credit facility KPN has a EUR 2.0 billion Revolving Credit Facility with 14 relationship banks and a final maturity in July 2018. The credit facility does not contain any financial covenants. As of December 31, 2014 and December 31, 2013, KPN had no drawings on its credit facility. Overdraft facilities During 2014, KPN had four uncommitted overdraft facilities with four banks of EUR 50 million each. The overdraft facilities may be canceled at any time and do not have a specified maturity date. In 2013, KPN drew on these facilities from time to time. As of December 31, 2014 and 2013, there were no amounts drawn under any of the overdraft facilities, except for bank overdrafts under cash pool agreements. < Notes to Financial Position 28 29 30 31 32 33 34 35 Corporate Financial Statements > KPN — Integrated Annual Report 2014 161 Key Consolidated Corporate Financial Notes to Notes to Financial Other Statements General Notes Profit or Loss Financial Position Other Notes Statements Information FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Other Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Global Medium Term Note Program KPN updated its GMTN program in April 2014. The program does not contain any commitment from investors to provide funding to KPN. Funding will be available subject to market conditions and other factors at the relevant time. Capital Resources Covenants KPN’s existing capital resources contain the following covenants as at December 31, 2014, which could trigger additional financial obligations or early redemption of the outstanding indebtedness. All of KPN’s senior bonds issued after January 1, 2006 (EUR 6.7 billion at December 31, 2014) and the EUR 50 million private placement issued in 2012 contain a change of control clause by means of which KPN may be required to redeem such outstanding bonds early, in the event that (i) certain changes of control occur and (ii) within the change of control period a rating downgrade to sub-investment grade occurs in respect of that change of control. The change of control period ends 90 days after the change of control event occurs. KPN’s hybrid bonds contain a change of control clause by means of which KPN has the option to repurchase the hybrid bonds at par. A 5% interest step-up applies if a rating downgrade occurs during the change of control period. In addition, many of KPN’s capital resources contain a covenant prohibiting KPN from entering into any amalgamation, demerger, merger, corporate restructuring or reorganization, unless prior written consent has been given by a majority of the lenders or bondholders or the resulting company assumes all of the rights and obligations with respect to the loans or bonds. As of December 31, 2014, one of the subsidiaries at Reggefiber had notes outstanding issued in 2013 with final maturity in 2023, which are subject to financial covenants customary in project financing. There have been no covenant breaches since the notes were issued in 2013. Market risk KPN is exposed to various kinds of market risks in the ordinary course of business. These risks include: ýý Foreign currency exchange rate risks; ýý Interest rate risks; and ýý Other market price risk. KPN has established policies that deal with the use of derivative financial instruments in order to reduce foreign currency exposure and to manage the interest rate profile. KPN’s centralized Treasury department matches and manages intercompany and external foreign currency exposures reported by the various business operations and Group companies. Hedges are applied on a full coverage basis, if economically feasible. In line with these policies, derivative financial instruments are used solely for the purpose of hedging underlying exposures to foreign currency exchange rate risk and interest rate risk. Contracts related to derivative financial instruments are entered into for periods consistent with the underlying exposures (if economically feasible) and do not constitute positions independent of these exposures. None of these financial instruments are used for trading purposes or taken as speculative positions. KPN’s policy in principle is to apply hedge accounting for derivative financial instruments related to interest-bearing debt and foreign exchange risk for bonds that are not denominated in Euro. Management has set up a policy to apply hedge accounting only when certain criteria are met regarding formal designation and documentation of the hedge relationship, the risk management objective, the strategy for undertaking the hedge and the effectiveness of the hedge. As a consequence, KPN tests effectiveness of the hedge relationship at inception and every quarter. Reference is made to Note 27. Foreign currency exchange rate risks The Group’s primary activities are denominated in Euro. Accordingly, the Euro is the Company’s functional currency, which is also the Group’s presentation currency. Items included in the financial information of individual entities in the Group are measured using the individual entity’s functional currency, which is the currency of the primary economic environment in which the entity operates. Currency exchange risk is the risk that the future cash flows will fluctuate because of changes in foreign exchange rates. The risk mainly results from settlement of international telecommunications traffic and purchase of goods and equipment and primarily consists of pound sterling and US dollar exposure. Foreign currency exchange rate risks related to bonds that are not denominated in Euro are hedged into Euro in line with KPN’s hedging policies. As a result of currency fluctuations, the value of subsidiaries operating outside the Eurozone markets could fluctuate and affect KPN’s financial position and equity positions from year to year. These translation exposures are not hedged. Group companies and business operations are obliged to hedge their firm commitments and highly predictable anticipated transactions in non-functional currencies by forward contracts transacted with KPN’s Treasury department. Accordingly, Treasury matches and manages the intercompany and external exposures using forward exchange contracts. KPN does not apply hedge accounting for these hedge instruments. < Notes to Financial Position 28 29 30 31 32 33 34 35 Corporate Financial Statements > 162 KPN — Integrated Annual Report 2014 Key Consolidated Corporate Financial Notes to Notes to Financial Other Statements General Notes Profit or Loss Financial Position Other Notes Statements Information Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional currency using the exchange rates prevailing on the dates of the transactions. At each balance sheet date, monetary items denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rates prevailing at the balance sheet date. Non-monetary items carried at fair value that are denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rates prevailing at the date when the fair value was determined. Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are not retranslated. Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions and from the translation at year-end exchange rates of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are recognized in the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss. As of December 31, 2014 more than 99% of cash and cash equivalents was denominated in the functional currency of the related entities. At December 31, 2014 more than 97% of the net amount of trade receivables and more than 95% of the amount of trade payables was outstanding in the functional currency of the related entities. Reference is made to Note 6 for the recognized exchange rate differences in the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss. Foreign exchange As of December 31, 2014, KPN carried out a sensitivity analysis with regard to changes in foreign exchange rates for entities with a functional currency different from Euro. All changes in foreign exchange rates and resulting sensitivities have an impact on the profit or loss statement and equity, but do not have an impact on the cash flow statement. The results of the analyses are shown in the table below, indicating the hypothetical impact on equity and profit or loss: Total Amounts in millions of EUR Change 2014 2013 Change in FX rate +20%-point 1 8 +10%-point 0 5 -10%-point -2 -3 -20%-point -3 -8 Interest rate risk and interest rate profile Interest rate risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate as a result of changes in market interest rates. Borrowings, derivatives, cash and cash equivalents are subject to interest rate risk. As KPN has a mix of financial instruments bearing a floating or a fixed interest rate, KPN is subject to risk from movements in interest rates. An unfavorable interest rate movement would result in additional financial expenses. Since 2011, the Eurobonds with maturities on September 21, 2020 (notional EUR 1.0 billion before tender offer), October 4, 2021 (notional EUR 500 million) and September 30, 2024 (notional EUR 700 million before tender offer) have been swapped to a floating rate based on three-month Euribor using fixed-to-floating interest swaps. KPN swapped part of the floating rate exposure back to fixed rates, by entering into forward starting swaps to maintain a horizon of fixed interest rates of at least one year. Following the bond tender in November 2014, part of these swaps have been settled. Please refer to Note 27 for further information. With regard to interest rate risk exposure, KPN periodically evaluates the desired mix of fixed and floating interest rate liabilities. Any interest exposure longer than one year is considered to be fixed. As of December 31, 2014, all of KPN’s interest-bearing gross debt excluding bank overdraft was at fixed interest rates (2013: 100%). With a view to the existing and forecasted debt structure, KPN’s Treasury department could enter into additional future derivative instruments to adjust the mix of fixed and floating interest rate liabilities. Other market price risk KPN does not enter into commodity contracts other than for its own use to meet the Group’s expected usage. KPN has entered into energy contracts for own use with a nominal amount of approximately EUR 30 million at December 31, 2014 (2013: EUR 30 million). Reference is made to Note 31. Sensitivity analysis As of December 31, 2014, KPN carried out a sensitivity analysis with regard to interest rate risk on interest-bearing assets and liabilities. With all other variables held constant, each adverse change of 100 basis points in six month Euribor would hypothetically on balance not result in higher interest costs per annum (2013: none) because all interest-bearing liabilities carried a fixed interest rate. < Notes to Financial Position 28 29 30 31 32 33 34 35 Corporate Financial Statements > KPN — Integrated Annual Report 2014 163 Key Consolidated Corporate Financial Notes to Notes to Financial Other Statements General Notes Profit or Loss Financial Position Other Notes Statements Information FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Other Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Cash flow hedges As of December 31, 2014, KPN carried out a sensitivity analysis with regard to interest rate risk and currency on the cash flow hedges. KPN applies cash flow hedges on all bonds not denominated in Euro. With all other variables held constant, KPN calculated the hypothetical impact of changes in interest rates based on various scenarios. This would hypothetically result in a higher or lower value on the balance of the hedge reserve, which is included in equity attributable to equity holders. In a similar way, KPN calculated the hypothetical impact of changes in the EUR/USD rate and the EUR/GBP rate, holding all other variables constant. The results of the analyses are shown in the table below, indicating the hypothetical impact on the balance of the hedge reserve as at December 31, 2014 and December 31, 2013: GBP USD Total Amounts in millions of EUR Change 2014 2013 Restated1 2014 2013 Restated1 2014 2013 Restated1 Change in interest rate +2%-point 18 -2 -44 -61 -26 -63 +1%-point 9 -2 -24 -33 -16 -35 -1%-point -8 4 29 39 21 43 GBP USD Total Amounts in millions of EUR Change 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 Change in FX rate +20%-point 152 108 137 98 289 206 +10%-point 83 59 74 54 157 112 -10%-point -101 -72 -91 -65 -192 -137 -20%-point -228 -162 -205 -147 -433 -309 1) Amounts do not correspond to the 2013 Financial Statements and reflect updated methodology. Prospective effectiveness testing indicates that all cash flow hedges are expected to be highly effective. As a consequence, the expected impact on the Statement of Profit or Loss is immaterial. Fair value hedges As of December 31, 2014, KPN carried out a sensitivity analysis with regard to interest rate risk on the fair value hedges. KPN applies fair value hedge accounting on Euro-denominated bonds that are swapped from a fixed rate to a floating rate. With all other variables held constant, KPN calculated the hypothetical impact of changes in interest rates based on various scenarios. The expected impact on the Cash Flow Statement and the Statement of Profit or Loss is immaterial, since the hedges are expected to be highly effective. This would result in minimal hedge ineffectiveness and volatility of KPN’s financial result. Derivatives held at fair value As of December 31, 2014, KPN carried out a sensitivity analysis with regard to the interest rate swaps for which no hedge accounting is applied. All changes in interest rates and resulting sensitivities have only profit or loss impact and no cash flow impact. Impact profit or loss amounts in millions of EUR Change 2014 2013 Interest rate swaps (floating-fixed) Changes in EUR interest rates +2%-point 28 78 +1%-point 14 39 -1%-point -15 -42 For a sensitivity analysis on interest rate risk with regard to pensions, reference is made to Note 23. < Notes to Financial Position 28 29 30 31 32 33 34 35 Corporate Financial Statements > 164 KPN — Integrated Annual Report 2014 Key Consolidated Corporate Financial Notes to Notes to Financial Other Statements General Notes Profit or Loss Financial Position Other Notes Statements Information Offsetting financial assets and financial liabilities (a) Financial assets The following financial assets are subject to offsetting, enforceable master netting arrangements and similar agreements: Related amounts not set off in the balance sheet Gross amounts of recognized financial Net amounts of Gross amount liabilities set off financial assets As at December 31, 2014 of recognized in the balance presented in the Financial Cash collateral Amounts in millions of EUR financial assets sheet balance sheet instruments received Net amount Cash & cash equivalents 1,976 – 1,976 -31 – 1,945 Derivative financial instruments 328 – 328 -167 – 161 Trade receivables 593 -79 514 -13 – 501 Total 2,897 -79 2,818 -211 – 2,607 Related amounts not set off in the balance sheet Gross amounts of recognized financial Net amounts of Gross amount liabilities set off financial assets As at December 31, 2013 of recognized in the balance presented in the Financial Cash collateral Amounts in millions of EUR financial assets sheet balance sheet instruments received Net amount Cash & cash equivalents 3,946 – 3,946 -23 – 3,923 Derivative financial instruments 117 – 117 -97 – 20 Trade receivables 753 -63 690 -14 – 676 Total 4,816 -63 4,753 -134 – 4,619 (b) Financial liabilities The following financial liabilities are subject to offsetting, enforceable master netting arrangements and similar agreements: Related amounts not set off in the balance sheet Gross amounts Net amounts of Gross amount of recognized financial of recognized financial assets liabilities As at December 31, 2014 financial set off in the presented in the Financial Cash collateral Amounts in millions of EUR liabilities balance sheet balance sheet instruments paid Net amount Derivative financial instruments 198 – 198 -168 -100 -70 Trade payables 864 -45 819 -13 – 806 Accrued expenses 913 -34 879 – – 879 Total 1,975 -79 1,896 -181 -100 1,615 Related amounts not set off in the balance sheet Gross amounts Net amounts of Gross amount of recognized financial of recognized financial assets liabilities As at December 31, 2013 financial set off in the presented in the Financial Cash collateral Amounts in millions of EUR liabilities balance sheet balance sheet instruments paid Net amount Derivative financial instruments 763 – 763 -97 -6 660 Trade payables 1,131 -40 1,091 -14 – 1,077 Accrued expenses 770 -22 748 – – 748 Total 2,664 -62 2,602 -111 -6 2,485 For the financial assets and liabilities summarized above, each agreement between KPN and the counterparty allows for net settlement of the relevant financial assets and liabilities when both parties elect to settle on a net basis. If parties choose not to settle on a net basis, the financial assets and liabilities will be settled on a gross basis. < Notes to Financial Position 28 29 30 31 32 33 34 35 Corporate Financial Statements > KPN — Integrated Annual Report 2014 165 Key Consolidated Corporate Financial Notes to Notes to Financial Other Statements General Notes Profit or Loss Financial Position Other Notes Statements Information FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Other Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements [31] Business combinations and other changes in consolidation Reggefiber On January 2, 2014, the option to acquire an additional 9% of the shares in Reggefiber Group B.V. (Reggefiber) from joint venture partner Reggeborgh was exercised. On October 31, 2014, after obtaining regulatory approval, KPN acquired the additional 9% stake, bringing its total ownership to 60%, and obtained control. Therefore, Reggefiber has been consolidated (in full) in the financial statements of KPN as of November 1, 2014. The exercise price of this option was EUR 161 million, which was paid at the end of 2014. This acquisition of Reggefiber has been accounted for as a step acquisition in accordance with the requirements of IFRS 3. In measuring the goodwill, KPN’s 51% stake in Reggefiber was remeasured to fair value as of November 1, 2014 and the corresponding gain of EUR 42 million was recognized in the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss as Other financial results (refer to Note 6) which was partly offset by the release of the related hedge reserve from equity (via Other Comprehensive Income) of EUR 7 million. Immediately before the acquisition, the options 2 and 3 were valued at their fair value based on a 100% probability. The step-up for options 2 and 3 compared with their value at January 1, 2014 was EUR 159 million and has been recognized in the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss as Other financial results (refer to Note 6). Reggeborgh held an option to sell the remaining 40% of its shares in Reggefiber to KPN. On November 18, 2014, KPN reached an agreement with Reggeborgh to acquire the remaining 40% stake in Reggefiber and obtain 100% ownership. The acquisition price of the 40% stake in Reggefiber was agreed at EUR 610 million, which was paid at the end of 2014. This resulted in a book gain of EUR 25 million recorded under Other financial results (refer to Note 6). On December 1, 2014, KPN became the 100% shareholder of Reggefiber. No non-controlling interest in Reggefiber’s equity or profit or loss was recognized for the period between November 1, 2014 (date of obtaining control) and December 1, 2014 (date of obtaining full ownership). The following table summarizes the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed, the total consideration and the goodwill at the date control over Reggefiber was obtained (November 1, 2014): All amounts in EUR millions. Recognized amounts of identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed Intangible assets [10]1 203 Property, plant and equipment [11]2 1,523 Deferred tax assets 86 Other non-current assets 35 Net cash and cash equivalents acquired 40 Trade and other receivables 37 Non-controlling interest 1 Deferred tax liabilities [7] -49 Non-current borrowings (including loans from Group companies) -857 Current borrowings -522 Derivative financial instruments -17 Trade and other payables and deferred income -116 Total identifiable net assets 364 Consideration Fair value of KPN’s 51% stake 330 Price paid for the acquisition of the 9% share (option 2) 161 Discounted value of the exercise price of Reggeborgh’s option to sell the remaining 40% share (option 3) 635 Fair value of option 2 and 3 [30] -493 Total consideration 633 Goodwill 269 [..] Bracketed numbers refer to the related Notes. 1) Includes customer base for EUR 195 million 2) Includes fiber network for EUR 1,518 million The consolidation of Reggefiber fits perfectly in KPN’s hybrid upgraded copper/Fiber-to-the-Home (FttH) strategy and marks another important step to strengthen KPN’s commitment to FttH in the Netherlands. This, together with the operational synergies, will provide further support for the execution of KPN’s strategy in the Netherlands. Reggefiber will be integrated into KPN’s cash-generating unit NetCo. The goodwill arising from this business combination is non-deductible for tax purposes. It is expected to contribute to the net increase of KPN’s customer base and has provisionally been allocated to KPN’s cash-generating unit NetCo. The purchase price allocation remains provisional until November 1, 2015 and may be subject to alterations based on additional information about facts and circumstances that existed at November 1, 2014. < Notes to Financial Position 28 29 30 31 32 33 34 35 Corporate Financial Statements > 166 KPN — Integrated Annual Report 2014 Key Consolidated Corporate Financial Notes to Notes to Financial Other Statements General Notes Profit or Loss Financial Position Other Notes Statements Information Following its consolidation as of November 1, 2014, Reggefiber has contributed EUR 1 million to KPN’s consolidated revenues and other income and a profit of EUR 1 million to KPN’s (net) loss attributable to equity holders. Had KPN obtained 100% ownership of Reggefiber before January 1, 2014, the KPN Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss in 2014 would have shown pro-forma total revenues and other income of EUR 8,088 million and a pro-forma loss attributable to equity holders of EUR 521 million. Other changes in consolidation On December 19, 2014, KPN acquired a 100% share in mobile virtual network operator MSBN B.V. and Telenetix B.V., which delivers IT services to MSBN B.V. Furthermore, on August 13, 2014, KPN acquired a 100% stake in hosting provider Argeweb B.V. These acquisitions are on an aggregate level considered not material for KPN, therefore disclosures are limited. In 2013, no new businesses were acquired. As of July 23, 2013, E-Plus had been presented as disposal group held for sale and discontinued operation and was sold in 2014 (see Note 19). In March 2013, Infrastructure Services & Partners was sold and deconsolidated from that date, with no significant impact. [32] Commitments, contingencies and legal proceedings Commitments Amounts due by period More than Total Total Amounts in millions of EUR Less than 1 year 1-5 years 5 years December 31, 2014 December 31, 2013 Capital and purchase commitments 1,451 425 19 1,895 1,706 Rental and operational lease contracts 171 397 263 831 937 Guarantees 19 31 144 194 318 Other 1 – – 1 13 Total commitments 1,642 853 426 2,921 2,974 Capital and purchase commitments The capital and purchase commitments mainly relate to contractual obligations with regard to network operations and mobile handsets. Rental and operational lease contracts For buildings, the majority of contracts included rental fees that are subject to a yearly indexation. Some contracts give KPN an option to buy the property when the landlord wants to sell that property. For site rentals and mobile towers, the majority of agreements included an option for renewal of the contract and rental fees that are subject to a yearly indexation percentage. In addition, the majority of contracts can be canceled by KPN only, with a notice period of 12 months. The minimum non-cancelable sublease amounts expected to be received amount to EUR 4 million (2013: EUR 8 million). These amounts mainly relate to subleases of buildings, site sharing arrangements and lease handsets. The total net costs of operating leases and rental contracts amounted to EUR 235 million in 2014 (2013: EUR 354 million) and is included in ‘cost of work contracted out and other expenses’ and ‘other operating expenses’ in the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss. The operating lease and rental commitments mainly relate to property, plant and equipment. Guarantees These commitments consist of financial obligations of Group companies under certain contracts guaranteed by KPN. A total amount of EUR 179 million relates to parent guarantees (2013: EUR 254 million). Contingent assets In 2003, BASE Company launched a damages claim against Belgacom Mobile (Proximus), claiming that the latter had abused its dominant position by applying very low on-net-rates. In 2004, Mobistar launched a similar claim. In 2007, the Commercial Court determined Belgacom Mobile’s dominant position in the retail market until the end of 2004, and ordered an expertise. In a preliminary report of October 2, 2009, the court experts concluded that Proximus had indeed abused its dominance and that, for the period 1999-2004, this abuse had resulted in damages of EUR 824 million for BASE Company and of EUR 357 million for Mobistar. In a second preliminary report of December 9, 2010, the damages for BASE Company were increased to EUR 1,329 million and for Mobistar to EUR 510 million. These amounts were exclusive of interest. Following the publication of the second preliminary report, Proximus requested the court to remove the experts from the case arguing that the experts are biased and/or incompetent. In first instance, the court denied said request, but in appeal it decided to remove the experts from the case. As a result hereof, a new expertise was started in 2014. On January 2, 2012, Proximus also appealed the original decision of the Commercial Court of 2007. The oral hearings at the Court of Appeal of Brussels took place in November and December 2014. A judgment by the Court of Appeal is expected during the first quarter of 2015. Contingent liabilities In KPN’s Articles of Association and in a further decision by the Board of Management, which was approved by the Supervisory Board, KPN has indemnified the members and former members of KPN’s Board of Management and Supervisory Board, as well as a number of KPN’s officers and directors and former officers and directors, against liabilities, claims, judgments, fines and penalties incurred by such < Notes to Financial Position 28 29 30 31 32 33 34 35 Corporate Financial Statements > KPN — Integrated Annual Report 2014 167 Key Consolidated Corporate Financial Notes to Notes to Financial Other Statements General Notes Profit or Loss Financial Position Other Notes Statements Information FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Other Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements officer or director as a result of any threatened, pending or completed action, investigation or proceeding (whether civil, criminal or administrative) brought by a third party in relation to acts or omissions in or related to her capacity as officer or director. The indemnification does not apply to claims and expenses reimbursed by insurers, nor to an officer or a director adjudged to be liable for willful misconduct (‘opzet’) or intentional recklessness (‘bewuste roekeloosheid’). As defined in the Telecommunications Act, the obligation for landlords to tolerate cables which are part of a public electronic communications network terminates as soon as those cables have been idle for a continuous period of 10 years. In that situation, a public electronic communications network supplier is required to remove cables at the request of a landlord. Although KPN currently records a provision for its future obligations to dismantle and remove certain other elements of its network, such as technical buildings, towers, and rooftop equipment, KPN has determined no such provision is appropriate for installed fiber cables, given that the date when such cables may be deemed idle is uncertain. In KPN’s judgment, it has not been able to make a reliable estimate of the impact of such obligations, and no provisions have been made. Legal proceedings KPN is involved in a number of legal proceedings that have arisen in the ordinary course of its business. The outcome of legal proceedings can be extremely difficult to predict with certainty, and KPN can offer no assurances in this regard. Below is a description of legal proceedings that KPN considers material. KPNQwest KPN is involved in several legal proceedings related to the bankruptcy of KPNQwest. On September 13, 2006, KPN was served with a writ of summons by Citibank N.A. and Cargill Financial Markets Plc. claiming EUR 183 million (following adjustments), from various former officers and former shareholders, including KPN, of KPNQwest. Citibank and Cargill claim compensation for damages on a EUR 525 million syndicated loan provided to KPNQwest in 2002 on the basis of misrepresentation and concealment by former management and former shareholders when the loan was provided to KPNQwest. Citibank acted as agent of the syndicate and as a 14.7% principal lender of the syndicated loan. Cargill claims that it acquired 85.3% of the claim by assignments of its part in the syndicated loan by other original lenders. The District Court of Amsterdam dismissed all the claims of Citibank and Cargill on April 25, 2012. Citibank and Cargill have appealed the decision. Reggefiber In 2009, cable operators Ziggo and UPC, as well as other telecommunications providers in the Netherlands, filed a suit in the administrative District Court of Rotterdam, seeking to challenge the ACM’s 2008 approval of KPN’s entry into the Reggefiber joint venture. Plaintiffs claimed that, by allowing the joint venture, competition in various fixed-line services, including fiber, cable and copper, would be restricted. In an interim court ruling by the administrative District Court of Rotterdam on November 18, 2010, the court held that the ACM had provided insufficient evidence for a part of its competition analyses. In particular, the ACM had not adequately demonstrated the potential effects on competition regarding non-price effects (such as the quality and roll-out of fiber) in its assessment or remedies. The District Court then allowed the ACM to submit additional evidence and, after further consideration, it held on May 10, 2012 that the Reggefiber joint venture could continue despite its annulment of the ACM decision. Ziggo appealed the District Court’s decision on June 15, 2012 to the Trade and Industry Appeals Tribunal (College van Beroep voor het bedrijfsleven (CBb)), claiming, among other things, that the Reggefiber joint venture should have been assessed in a second phase inquiry by the ACM to take into account the effects on the market as well as the effectiveness of the remedies. A decision in response to Ziggo’s appeal is expected sometime in 2015. As the joint venture has been terminated on December 1, 2014 and KPN obtained a license from the ACM to acquire sole control over Reggefiber, the outcome of this proceeding may no longer affect KPN. On October 31, 2014, the ACM approved the acquisition of sole control by KPN. Vodafone appealed the ACM decision at the administrative District Court of Rotterdam. This could result in the confirmation, amendment or annulment of the license from the ACM for the acquisition of sole control by ACM over Reggefiber. There are no precedents where a license has been annulled, but this could eventually result in an obligation on KPN to release control over Reggefiber. [33] Related-party transactions KPN enters into agreements and transactions with shareholders, joint ventures and associated undertakings for various business purposes, including providing services or financing of operating activities. KPN also enters into such transactions in the ordinary course of business with certain companies or organizations over which KPN, members of the Supervisory Board or Board of Management may have a significant influence. These related-party transactions are described below. KPN considers none of these transactions to be material on an individual basis, except for the transactions with shareholders. Transactions between Group companies are not included in the description as these are eliminated in the Consolidated Financial Statements. < Notes to Financial Position 28 29 30 31 32 33 34 35 Corporate Financial Statements > 168 KPN — Integrated Annual Report 2014 Key Consolidated Corporate Financial Notes to Notes to Financial Other Statements General Notes Profit or Loss Financial Position Other Notes Statements Information Transactions with shareholders In 2013, a 2 for 1 rights issue of 2,838,732,182 new ordinary shares with a nominal value of EUR 0.24 took place at an issue price of EUR 1.06 through the granting of transferable subscription entitlements to holders of ordinary shares in KPN’s issued and outstanding share capital pro rata to their shareholdings. For further information about the rights issue, see Note 20. On August 29, 2013, the Foundation Preference Shares B KPN exercised its call option and obtained 4,258,098,272 newly issued preference shares B. These shares reflected an interest in KPN’s outstanding shares of 50% minus one share. In compliance with the statutory arrangement, 25% of the nominal value of these shares (EUR 255 million) was paid to KPN in cash. On March 21, 2014, the preference shares B were canceled against repayment of the paid-up amount. For more information about the issue of the preference shares B, see Note 20. América Móvil, S.A.B. de C.V. (‘AMX’) published on February 10, 2015, in its fourth quarter 2014 report, that it owned 21.4% of KPN’s ordinary share capital at December 31, 2014. The total value of sales transactions by the continuing operations of KPN in 2014 with AMX, its subsidiaries, joint ventures and associated companies amounted to approximately EUR 12 million (2013: EUR 6 million) and the total value of purchase transactions amounted to approximately EUR 35 million (2013: EUR 21 million). The total trade receivables and payables as of December 31, 2014 amounted to approximately EUR 3 million and EUR 6 million respectively (December 31, 2013: EUR 3 million and EUR 6 million respectively). Pursuant to the Dutch Financial Supervision Act (‘Wet op het financieeltoezicht’ or ‘Wft’), legal entities as well as natural persons must immediately notify the Dutch Authority for the Financial Markets (AFM) when a shareholding equals or exceeds 3% of the issued capital. On March 21, 2014, Discovery Capital Management, LLC notified that it held 3.77% of the shares and voting rights related to KPN’s ordinary share capital. On October 1, 2014, Franklin Mutual Series Fund, Inc. notified that it held 3.63% of the shares and voting rights related to KPN’s ordinary share capital. To KPN’s knowledge, no other shareholder owned 3% or more of KPN’s issued share capital as at December 31, 2014. KPN did not enter into agreements with AMX or other shareholders which could have a material impact on KPN’s Financial Statements. On February 20, 2013, KPN and AMX entered into a relationship agreement, governing the long-term relationship between both parties. In accordance with best practice provision III 6.4 of the Dutch Corporate Governance Code, the relationship agreement was approved by KPN’s Supervisory Board. On July 29, 2013, the relationship agreement was terminated by AMX. Transactions with joint ventures and associated companies Associated, non-consolidated companies and joint ventures of KPN sell goods and provide services to consolidated KPN companies. In addition, consolidated KPN companies sell goods or provide services to these associated companies and joint ventures (see Notes 12 and 13). The total value of sales transactions by the continuing operations of KPN in 2014 with joint ventures and associated companies, including Reggefiber until November 1, 2014, amounted to approximately EUR 58 million (2013: EUR 63 million) and the total value of purchase transactions amounted to approximately EUR 153 million (2013: EUR 138 million). The total trade receivables and payables as of December 31, 2014 amounted to approximately EUR 13 million and EUR 1 million respectively (December 31, 2013: EUR 17 million and EUR 36 million respectively). During 2014 KPN acquired the remaining shares in Reggefiber Group B.V. and obtained 100% ownership (refer to Note 31). Transactions with directors and related parties For details of the relation between directors and the Company, reference is made to the ‘Remuneration Report’ on pages 90 to 100 of this Integrated Annual Report. Directors in this respect are defined as key management and relate to those having authority and responsibility for planning, directing, and controlling the activities of an entity, either directly or indirectly. At KPN, key management consists of the members of the Board of Management. The Company has not been, and is not now, a party to any material transactions, or proposed transactions, in which members of the Supervisory Board or Board of Management or close members of their families had a direct or indirect material interest in 2014. The total value of sales transactions by the continuing operations of KPN in 2014 with parties in which members of the Supervisory Board or Board of Management or close members of their families had a direct or indirect material interest amounted to approximately EUR 14 million (2013: EUR 24 million) and the total value of purchase transactions amounted to approximately EUR 17 million (2013: EUR 9 million), all in the ordinary course of business. The total trade receivables and payables as of December 31, 2014 amounted to approximately EUR 3 million and less than EUR 1 million respectively (December 31, 2013: EUR 5 million and EUR 5 million respectively). < Notes to Financial Position 28 29 30 31 32 33 34 35 Corporate Financial Statements > KPN — Integrated Annual Report 2014 169 Key Consolidated Corporate Financial Notes to Notes to Financial Other Statements General Notes Profit or Loss Financial Position Other Notes Statements Information FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Other Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements [34] Subsequent events On January 9, 2015, the Supervisory Board appointed Mr. Frank van der Post to the Board of Management of KPN as Chief Commercial Officer as from March 1, 2015, after having informed the Extraordinary General Meeting of Shareholders of the intention to appoint Mr. Frank van der Post. On February 3, 2015, KPN announced that it reached an agreement to sell its German subsidiary SNT Deutschland AG (“SNT”) to LIVIA Group, for an undisclosed consideration. The transaction is in line with KPN’s strategy to focus on its core footprint. SNT provides contact center outsourcing solutions to business clients. In 2014, SNT generated revenues of approximately EUR 90 million with approximately 2,900 FTEs. KPN expects to close the transaction in the first quarter of 2015, subject to customary closing conditions. [35] Segment reporting KPN’s segment reporting is driven by the internal structure and reporting to KPN’s Chief Executive Officer (CEO), who is KPN’s chief operating decision-maker according to IFRS 8. KPN’s operating segments are summarized below. In 2014, KPN made the following organizational changes: ýý IT Solutions, the segment with focus on datacenters, consulting services and workspace solutions, has been integrated into the Business Segment as of January 1, 2014. The internal reporting structure was changed and comparative segment information has been restated accordingly. ýý Germany Segment included E-Plus, Blau Mobilfunk and Magnum – a challenger network operator with its own brands and partners in Germany. E-Plus classified as ‘disposal group held for sale’ as of July 23, 2013. The sale was completed at October 1, 2014. E-Plus has been eliminated from the segment disclosures in this Note. The remaining activities of KPN’s Germany segment do not qualify for separate disclosure and have therefore been merged into Mobile International Other Segment as of January 1, 2014. Comparable information has been restated. Refer to Note 19 for more information on E-Plus. The Netherlands The Netherlands consists of the following: ýý Consumer Mobile Segment – providing mobile telephony and mobile data. KPN offers retail customers a broad package of services in the areas of communication, information, entertainment and commercial services; ýý Consumer Residential Segment – providing internet and TV and fixed telephony. KPN offers retail customers a broad range of services in the areas of communication, information, entertainment and commercial services; ýý Business Segment – KPN offers its business customers (small, medium-sized, large and corporate) a complete portfolio of service from fixed and mobile telephony and internet to a range of end-to-end solutions in infrastructure, workspace management and data network and datacenter services; ýý NetCo Segment is responsible for KPN’s operational activities for the Dutch networks (both fixed and mobile), IT services and for KPN’s wholesale customers; and ýý The Netherlands’ Other Segment. Mobile International Mobile International comprises: ýý Belgium Segment, consists of BASE Company, a challenger network operator with own brands and partners in Belgium; and ýý Mobile International Other Segment, including continuing operations from KPN’s Germany activities. iBasis Group Through iBasis, KPN is a leading player in the international wholesale voice market. iBasis carries international phone calls worldwide. Other activities Segment Other activities comprise the results of KPN’s Corporate Center (support) and the call center activities of SNT Germany. Due to the fact that KPN neither allocates interest expenses to all segments nor accounts for taxes in the segments, the disclosure is limited to operating profit for the year. < Notes to Financial Position 28 29 30 31 32 33 34 35 Corporate Financial Statements > 170 KPN — Integrated Annual Report 2014 Key Consolidated Corporate Financial Notes to Notes to Financial Other Statements General Notes Profit or Loss Financial Position Other Notes Statements Information The basis for inter-segment pricing for wireless services is as follows: 1. KPN’s mobile terminating services are regulated in some aspects. The price level of the mobile terminating services to external wholesale operators has been set in consultation with and approved by the Dutch competition and telecommunications regulators. The mobile terminating tariffs are applied on a non-discriminatory basis within the segment Consumer, Business and NetCo and to other (external) operators; and 2. Roaming tariffs between KPN’s Mobile operators are based on bilateral agreements and contain generally similar terms as bilateral agreements with third parties. 3. The basis for inter-segment pricing within the Netherlands, other than mentioned in categories 1) and 2) above can be described as follows: ýý For identical products which are also sold to external parties, KPN uses wholesale prices; ýý For non-regulated retail products which do not fall within the scope of category 3, KPN uses cost-based prices; and ýý For regulated retail products which do not fall within the scope of category 3, KPN uses external purchase costs and an additional charge which is equal to a predetermined percentage of the difference between the gross external retail revenues and external purchase costs; this method is also referred to as ‘retail-minus’. The Netherlands Other (including Amounts in millions of EUR, Consumer Mobile Residential Business NetCo eliminations) Total the Netherlands unless otherwise 2013 2013 stated 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 (restated) 2014 2013 2014 (restated) 2014 2013 Statement of Profit or Loss External revenues1 1,346 1,440 1,800 1,839 2,695 2,972 494 482 2 3 6,337 6,736 Other income 2 – – – 5 25 – 4 76 1 83 30 Inter-division revenues 59 70 116 123 220 204 1,768 1,857 -2,128 -2,218 35 36 Total revenues 1,407 1,510 1,916 1,962 2,920 3,201 2,262 2,343 -2,050 -2,214 6,455 6,802 Total operating expenses excluding depreciation, amortization and impairments -1,216 -1,100 -1,512 -1,587 -2,330 -2,495 -1,021 -1,046 2,074 2,181 -4,005 -4,047 EBITDA2 191 410 404 375 590 706 1,241 1,297 24 -33 2,450 2,755 Depreciation, amortization and impairments -166 -242 -299 -297 -206 -221 -938 -907 -21 -12 -1,630 -1,679 Operating profit 25 168 105 78 384 485 303 390 3 -45 820 1,076 Total assets 1,261 1,805 1,940 2,003 3,478 3,492 11,498 10,081 -447 -286 17,730 17,095 Total liabilities 1,179 1,492 1,824 1,929 3,054 3,171 11,457 10,083 -447 -287 17,067 16,388 Other Investments in intangible assets 1 60 6 54 37 84 319 1,439 270 – 633 1,637 Investments in property, plant and equipment 17 170 179 221 53 81 623 672 19 – 891 1,144 Investments in associates and joint ventures – – – – – – 17 294 – – 17 294 Results associates and joint ventures – – – – – 1 -4 -3 – – -4 -2 Employees end of period (FTEs) 1,194 1,296 3,054 3,167 6,516 7,259 2,168 2,113 1,180 612 14,112 14,447 Employees average (FTEs) 1,245 1,320 3,111 3,342 6,887 8,020 2,141 2,562 896 512 14,280 15,756 1) External revenues mainly consist of rendering of services. 2) Earnings before interest, tax and depreciation, amortization and impairments. < Notes to Financial Position 28 29 30 31 32 33 34 35 Corporate Financial Statements > KPN — Integrated Annual Report 2014 171 Key Consolidated Corporate Financial Notes to Notes to Financial Other Statements General Notes Profit or Loss Financial Position Other Notes Statements Information FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Other Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Mobile International Other (including Total Mobile Amounts in millions of EUR, Belgium eliminations) International iBasis unless otherwise stated 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 Statement of Profit or Loss External revenues1 701 720 104 131 805 851 773 777 Other income 2 – – -1 2 -1 – – Inter-division revenues 8 8 5 12 13 20 175 192 Total revenues 711 728 109 142 820 870 948 969 Total operating expenses excluding depreciation, amortization and impairments -562 -536 -119 -134 -681 -670 -925 -940 EBITDA2 149 192 -10 8 139 200 23 29 Depreciation, amortization and impairments -166 -151 -6 -10 -172 -161 -9 -12 Operating profit -17 41 -16 -2 -33 39 14 17 Total assets 1,406 2,047 1,359 10,937 2,765 12,984 386 389 Total liabilities 370 410 276 26,369 646 26,779 232 253 Other Investments in intangible assets 36 226 1 50 37 276 – – Investments in property, plant and equipment 141 160 2 409 143 569 8 7 Investments in associates and joint ventures 2 2 – – 2 2 – – Results associates and joint ventures – -2 -5 -11 -5 -13 – – Employees end of period (FTEs) 808 889 56 65 864 954 311 332 Employees average (FTEs) 849 892 59 119 908 1,011 322 331 1) External revenues mainly consist of rendering of services. 2) Earnings before interest, tax and depreciation, amortization and impairments. KPN Total Amounts in millions of EUR, Other activities Segment Total segments Eliminations Consolidated unless otherwise stated 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 Statement of Profit or Loss External revenues1 84 79 7,999 8,443 – – 7,999 8,443 Other income -1 – 84 29 – – 84 29 Inter-division revenues -2 -1 221 247 -221 -247 – – Total revenues 81 78 8,304 8,719 -221 -247 8,083 8,472 Total operating expenses excluding depreciation, amortization and impairments 322 -179 -5,289 -5,836 221 247 -5,068 -5,589 EBITDA2 403 -101 3,015 2,883 – – 3,015 2,883 Depreciation, amortization and impairments -9 -5 -1,820 -1,857 – – -1,820 -1,857 Operating profit 394 -106 1,195 1,026 – – 1,195 1,026 Balance sheet Total assets -2,325 -4,596 18,556 25,872 – – 18,556 25,872 Total liabilities -4,019 -22,851 13,926 20,569 – – 13,926 20,569 Other Investments in intangible assets 1 1 671 1,914 – – 671 1,914 Investments in property, plant and equipment 2 3 1,044 1,723 – – 1,044 1,723 Investments in associates and joint ventures 23 24 42 320 – – 42 320 Result associates and joint ventures 3 8 -6 -7 – – -6 -7 Employees end of period (FTEs) 3,184 3,216 18,471 18,949 – – 18,471 18,949 Employees average (FTEs) 3,200 3,124 18,710 20,222 – – 18,710 20,222 1) External revenues mainly consist of rendering of services. 2) Earnings before interest, tax and depreciation, amortization and impairments. < Notes to Financial Position 28 29 30 31 32 33 34 35 Corporate Financial Statements > 172 KPN — Integrated Annual Report 2014 Key Consolidated Corporate Financial Notes to Notes to Financial Other Statements General Notes Profit or Loss Financial Position Other Notes Statements Information Geographical information Amounts in millions of Total property, plant and Revenues and other EUR Financial year Total non-current assets1 Total intangible assets equipment income Regions The Netherlands 2014 13,013 3,393 6,072 6,417 2013 9,146 3,055 4,809 6,765 Belgium 2014 887 417 508 706 2013 876 403 511 726 The Americas 2014 66 98 20 773 2013 60 94 17 777 Other 2014 -612 84 6 187 2013 -758 91 3 204 Consolidated 2014 13,354 3,992 6,606 8,083 2013 9,324 3,643 5,340 8,472 1) Excluding deferred tax assets, pensions and financial instruments. < Notes to Financial Position 28 29 30 31 32 33 34 35 Corporate Financial Statements > KPN — Integrated Annual Report 2014 173 Key Consolidated Corporate Financial Notes to Notes to Financial Other Statements General Notes Profit or Loss Financial Position Other Notes Statements Information FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — CORPORATE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Corporate Statement of Profit or Loss For the year ended December 31 Amounts in millions of EUR 2014 2013 Income from subsidiaries after taxes -14,402 403 Other income and expense after taxes 13,804 -625 Profit (loss) attributable to equity holders -598 -222 In 2014, Income from subsidiaries after taxes includes a loss of EUR 14.3 billion, and Other income and expense after taxes a gain of this same amount, due to debt restructurings within KPN Group mainly relating to the sale of E-Plus. 174 KPN — Integrated Annual Report 2014 Key Consolidated Corporate Financial Notes to Notes to Financial Other Statements General Notes Profit or Loss Financial Position Other Notes Statements Information Corporate Statement of Financial Position Before appropriation of results Assets Amounts in millions of EUR December 31, 2014 December 31, 2013 NON-CURRENT ASSETS Financial fixed assets Investments in subsidiaries 30,170 25,968 Loans to subsidiaries – 5,748 Other financial fixed assets 4,355 426 Total non-current assets [A] 34,525 32,142 CURRENT ASSETS Accounts receivable from subsidiaries 462 623 Other receivables and accrued income [B] 54 13 Other current financial assets 300 – Cash and cash equivalents 1,693 3,175 Total current assets 2,509 3,811 TOTAL 37,034 35,953 [..] Bracketed letters refer to the Notes to the Corporate Statement of Financial Position. Equity and Liabilities Amounts in millions of EUR December 31, 2014 December 31, 2013 Subscribed capital stock 171 1,025 Additional paid-in capital 9,847 8,993 Treasury shares reserve -138 -138 Perpetual hybrid bonds 1,089 1,089 Hedge reserve -393 -394 Legal reserves 398 255 Retained earnings -5,803 -5,358 Profit (loss) current year -598 -222 Total equity attributable to equity holders [C] 4,573 5,250 PROVISIONS Provisions for retirement benefit obligations 66 847 Other provisions 35 109 Total provisions [D] 101 956 NON-CURRENT LIABILITIES Loans [E] 17,171 12,348 Derivative financial instruments 186 419 Other long-term liabilities 52 50 Total non-current liabilities 17,409 12,817 CURRENT LIABILITIES Accounts payable to subsidiaries 13,421 14,339 Other current liabilities [F] 1,134 2,176 Accruals and deferred income 396 415 Total current liabilities 14,951 16,930 TOTAL 37,034 35,953 [..] Bracketed letters refer to the Notes to the Corporate Statement of Financial Position. KPN — Integrated Annual Report 2014 175 Key Consolidated Corporate Financial Notes to Notes to Financial Other Statements General Notes Profit or Loss Financial Position Other Notes Statements Information FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — CORPORATE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS General Notes to the Corporate Financial Statements With reference to the Corporate Statement of Profit or Loss of Koninklijke KPN N.V., use has been made of the exemption pursuant to Article 402, Part 9, Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code. For the principles for the recognition and measurement of assets and liabilities and determination of the result for its Corporate Financial Statements, Koninklijke KPN N.V. applies the option provided in Article 362 sub 8, Part 9, Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code. This means that the principles for the recognition and measurement of assets and liabilities and determination of the result (hereinafter referred to as ‘Accounting policies’) of the Corporate Financial Statements of Koninklijke KPN N.V. are the same as those applied for the Consolidated Financial Statements under IFRS. The Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with the International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union (IFRS). Reference is made to the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Investments in consolidated subsidiaries are measured at net asset value. Net asset value is based on the measurement of assets, provisions and liabilities and determination of profit based on the principles applied in the Consolidated Financial Statements. Investments in which the Company has significant influence on the financial and operational policies, but not control (associates), are accounted for using the equity method. Under the equity method, the investment is initially recognized at cost and the carrying amount is increased or decreased to recognize the Company’s share of profit or loss of the investment after the date of acquisition. The Company’s investments in associates include goodwill identified on acquisition. 176 KPN — Integrated Annual Report 2014 Key Consolidated Corporate Financial Notes to Notes to Financial Other Statements General Notes Profit or Loss Financial Position Other Notes Statements Information Notes to the Corporate Statement of Financial Position [A] Financial fixed assets Group Loans to Group Other financial Amounts in millions of EUR companies companies fixed assets Total Balance as of January 1, 2013 25,433 5,622 569 31,624 Exchange rate differences -1 – – -1 Income from Group companies after taxes 384 – – 384 Capital contributions 1 – – 1 Received/paid dividends -4 – – -4 New loans – 126 – 126 Withdrawals/redemptions – – -2 -2 Change in derivative financial instruments – – -122 -122 Other 155 – -19 136 Total changes 535 126 -143 518 Balance as of December 31, 2013 25,968 5,748 426 32,142 Exchange rate differences 6 – – 6 Income from Group companies after taxes -14,402 – – -14,402 Capital contributions 17,430 – – 17,430 Received/paid dividends -4 – – -4 New loans – – 95 95 Acquisition1 – – 2,528 2,528 Fair value adjustment1 – – 163 163 Withdrawals/redemptions – -5,748 -1 -5,749 Change in derivative financial instruments – – 207 207 Other2 1,172 – 937 2,109 Total changes 4,202 -5,748 3,929 2,383 Balance as of December 31, 2014 30,170 – 4,355 34,525 1) The acquisition and fair value adjustment relates to the 20.5% stake in Telefónica Deutschland. 2) The amount in line item Other of Financial fixed assets mainly relates to an increase in deferred tax assets of EUR 1.1 billion relating to the sale of E-Plus. [B] Other receivables December 31, December 31, Amounts in millions of EUR 2014 2013 Accrued income 11 11 Current income tax receivables 39 – Other receivables 4 2 Total 54 13 [C] Equity attributable to equity holders For a breakdown of equity attributable to equity holders, reference is made to the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Group Equity and the Notes thereto. Legal reserves Legal reserves (net of tax) are presented below: Fair value Revaluation Capitalized reserve Other reserve Cumulative software available-fornonproperty, plant translation development sale financial distributable Amounts in millions of EUR and equipment adjustments costs assets reserves Total Balance as of January 1, 2013 69 13 171 3 48 304 Exchange rate differences – -1 – – – -1 Addition/(release) retained earnings -16 – -37 – 5 -48 Balance as of December 31, 2013 53 12 134 3 53 255 Exchange rate differences – 6 – – – 6 Addition/(release) retained earnings -13 – 28 – – 15 Other – – – 122 – 122 Balance as of December 31, 2014 40 18 162 125 53 398 KPN — Integrated Annual Report 2014 177 Key Consolidated Corporate Financial Notes to Notes to Financial Other Statements General Notes Profit or Loss Financial Position Other Notes Statements Information FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — CORPORATE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the Corporate Statement of Financial Position Pursuant to Dutch law, limitations exist relating to the distribution of equity attributable to equity holders. Such limitations relate to the subscribed capital stock of EUR 171 million (2013: EUR 1,025 million) as well as to legal reserves required by Dutch law as presented above. The total distributable reserves at December 31, 2014 amounted to EUR 4,004 million (2013: EUR 3,970 million). Dutch law also requires that in determining the amount of distribution, the Company’s ability to continue to pay its debt must be taken into account, including the EUR perpetual hybrid bonds which are classified as equity under IFRS. Retained earnings Movements in retained earnings were as follows: Amounts in millions of EUR Balance as of January 1, 2013 -6,468 Profit for the year 2012 763 Dividend perpetual hybrid bond (net of tax) -25 Actuarial gain/loss pensions and other post-employment plans 321 Release/addition legal reserves 48 Other 3 Balance as of December 31, 2013 -5,358 Loss for the year 2013 -222 Dividend perpetual hybrid bond (net of tax) -76 Dividend ordinary shares -85 Actuarial gain/loss pensions and other post-employment plans -50 Release/addition legal reserves -15 Other 3 Balance as of December 31, 2014 -5,803 Retained earnings can be reconciled with the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position as follows: Amounts in millions of EUR December 31, 2014 December 31, 2013 Retained earnings as per Consolidated Statement of Financial Position -6,146 -5,340 Revaluation reserve -40 -53 Capitalized software development costs -162 -134 Other non-distributable reserves -53 -53 Loss for the year 598 222 Retained earnings as per Corporate Statement of Financial Position -5,803 -5,358 [D] Provisions Movements in provisions were as follows: Retirement benefit obligations Other provisions Total Balance as of January 1, 2013 1,181 27 1,208 Additions/Releases to income 110 84 194 Additions/Releases directly to equity -227 – -227 Usage -217 -2 -219 Balance as of December 31, 2013 847 109 956 Additions/Releases to income -362 7 -355 Additions/Releases directly to equity -67 – -67 Usage -352 -81 -433 Balance as of December 31, 2014 66 35 101 The provisions for retirement benefit obligations at December 31, 2014, relates to early retirement plans. The KPN PF and KPN OPF pension plans were transferred into collective defined contribution plans as of January 1, 2015. The provision for these plans were released in 2014. For details, reference is made to Note 23 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The decrease in other provisions mainly relates to usage regarding the KPNQwest legal proceedings and the OT2010 penalty. 178 KPN — Integrated Annual Report 2014 Key Consolidated Corporate Financial Notes to Notes to Financial Other Statements General Notes Profit or Loss Financial Position Other Notes Statements Information Non-current liabilities [E] Loans Loans include bonds outstanding for EUR 8,175 million (2013: EUR 10,579 million), hybrid bonds outstanding for EUR 1,000 million (2013: EUR 905 million), and loans from subsidiaries for EUR 7,996 million (2013: EUR 863 million). Loans from subsidiaries have maturity dates in 2014 and bear fixed interest rates. For more information on the bonds outstanding, refer to Note 22 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. [F] Other current liabilities Amounts in millions of EUR December 31, 2014 December 31, 2013 Current portion of loans 999 1,399 Income tax payable – 81 Social security and other taxes payable 111 124 Bank overdrafts 14 306 Other debt – 256 Derivative financial instruments 10 10 Total 1,134 2,176 [G] Commitments and contingencies Amounts in millions of EUR December 31, 2014 December 31, 2013 Commitments by virtue of guarantees 179 254 KPN has issued several declarations of joint and several liabilities for various Group companies in compliance with Section 403, Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code. These declarations of joint and several liabilities for Group companies are included in a complete list of subsidiaries and participating interests, which is available at the offices of the Chamber of Commerce in The Hague. Directors’ remuneration Reference is made to Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements on employee benefits. The Hague, February 25, 2015 Supervisory Board Board of Management J.B.M. Streppel E. Blok P.A.M. van Bommel J.C. de Jager C.J. García Moreno Elizondo J.F.E. Farwerck D.J. Haank O. Von Hauske Solis C.M. Hooymans D.W. Sickinghe C.J.G. Zuiderwijk KPN — Integrated Annual Report 2014 179 Key Consolidated Corporate Financial Notes to Notes to Financial Other Statements General Notes Profit or Loss Financial Position Other Notes Statements Information OTHER INFORMATION Independent Auditor’s Report To: the General Meeting and Supervisory Board of Koninklijke KPN N.V. Report on the financial statements 2014 Our opinion In our opinion ýý the consolidated financial statements give a true and fair view of the financial position of Koninklijke KPN N.V. as at December 31, 2014 and of its result and cash flows for the year then ended in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union (EU-IFRS) and with Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code; ýý the corporate financial statements give a true and fair view of the financial position of Koninklijke KPN N.V. as at December 31, 2014 and of its result for the year then ended in accordance with Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code. What we have audited We have audited the financial statements 2014 of Koninklijke KPN N.V., The Hague (‘the company’). The financial statements include the consolidated financial statements and the corporate financial statements. The consolidated financial statements comprise: ýý the consolidated statement of financial position as at December 31, 2014; ýý the following statements for 2014: the consolidated statement of profit or loss and the consolidated statements of other comprehensive income, changes in group equity and cash flows; and ýý the notes, comprising a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information. The corporate financial statements comprise: ýý the corporate statement of financial position as at December 31, 2014; ýý the corporate statement of profit or loss for the year then ended; and ýý the notes, comprising a summary of the accounting policies and other explanatory information. The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the financial statements is EU-IFRS and the relevant provisions of Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code for the consolidated financial statements and Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code for the corporate financial statements. The basis for our opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with Dutch law, including the Dutch Standards on Auditing. Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in ‘Our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements’ of our report. We are independent of Koninklijke KPN N.V. in accordance with the ‘Verordening inzake de onafhankelijkheid van accountants bij assurance-opdrachten’ (ViO) and other relevant independence requirements in the Netherlands. Furthermore, we have complied with the ‘Verordening gedragsen beroepsregels accountants’ (VGBA). We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. Our audit approach Overview We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements. In particular, we looked at where the directors made subjective judgments, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain. Apart from the key audit matters, which are explained in the table below, other points of focus in our audit included, amongst others, the assumptions and methodologies used by management in its goodwill impairment testing, derivatives and hedge accounting, revenue recognition and valuation of the telecom network. As in all of our audits, we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the directors that may represent a risk of material misstatement due to fraud. 180 KPN — Integrated Annual Report 2014 Key Consolidated Corporate Financial Notes to Notes to Financial Other Statements General Notes Profit or Loss Financial Position Other Notes Statements Information Materiality ýý Overall materiality: EUR 40 million which represents 0.5% of total revenues. Materiality Audit Scope ýý We conducted audit work in the Netherlands, Belgium, Germany and the United States of America. ýý A site visit was conducted to iBasis in the United States of America. Audit Scope Key audit matters ýý Best estimate sales proceeds concerning E-Plus includes uncertainty regarding net debt / working Key audit capital settlement; matters ýý Appropriateness of valuation of deferred tax assets regarding tax loss on sale of E-Plus; ýý Business combination related to Reggefiber including option valuation; ýý Pension plan amendments appropriately accounted for; ýý Rationalization of internal controls framework in transition during 2014. Materiality The scope of our audit is influenced by the application of materiality. Our audit opinion aims to provide reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free from material misstatement. Misstatements may arise due to fraud or error. They are considered to be material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of the financial statements. We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality. These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures and to evaluate the effect of identified misstatements on our opinion. Based on our professional judgment, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Overall group materiality EUR 40 million (2013: EUR 50 million). How we determined it 0.5% of total revenues. Rationale for benchmark applied We have applied this benchmark, a generally accepted auditing practice, based on our analysis of stakeholders and in the absence of indicators that an alternative benchmark would be appropriate. In previous years we have based materiality on an average of 5% of profit before tax and 0.5% of total revenues. However, given the large fluctuation in profit before tax (adjusted for one-off items), we did not consider profit before tax an appropriate benchmark for 2014 and thus applied the materiality percentage 0.5% of total revenues (a generally accepted practice). We also take misstatements and/or possible misstatements into account that, in our judgment, are material for qualitative reasons. We agreed with the Supervisory Board that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above EUR 2 million (2013: EUR 2.5 million) as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons. The scope of our group audit Koninklijke KPN N.V. is head of a group of entities. The financial information of this group is included in the consolidated financial statements of Koninklijke KPN N.V. Considering our ultimate responsibility for the opinion on the company’s consolidated financial statements we are responsible for the direction, supervision and performance of the group audit. In this context, we have determined the nature and extent of the audit procedures for components of the group to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole. Determining factors are the geographic structure of the group, the significance and/or risk profile of group entities or activities, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which the group operates. On this basis, we selected group entities for which an audit or review of financial information or specific balances, transactions or disclosures was considered necessary. The group audit focused on the Dutch segments ‘Consumer Mobile’, ‘Consumer Residential’, ‘Business Market’ and ‘NetCo’ as well as the segments Belgium (BASE Company) and ‘iBasis’ (United States of America). The group’s accounting process is structured around a local finance function for each of these segments. These functions maintain their own accounting records and controls and report to the Corporate Control team in the Netherlands through an integrated consolidation system. Due to their significance and / or risk characteristics we performed full scope audit procedures on the financial information of the finance functions of all above mentioned segments in the Netherlands. For the segments in Belgium and the United States of America we used component auditors from other PwC network firms who are familiar with local laws and regulation to perform detailed audit procedures to obtain sufficient coverage for financial statement line items from a consolidated financial statement perspective. In view of the deconsolidation of E-Plus, we instructed the German PwC network firm to perform procedures of a review type nature on the Q1 and Q2 2014 E-Plus reporting set. KPN — Integrated Annual Report 2014 181 Key Consolidated Corporate Financial Notes to Notes to Financial Other Statements General Notes Profit or Loss Financial Position Other Notes Statements Information OTHER INFORMATION Independent Auditor’s Report (continued) Where the work was performed by component auditors, we determined the level of involvement we needed to have in the audit work at those locations to be able to conclude whether sufficient appropriate audit evidence had been obtained as a basis for our opinion on the group financial statements as a whole. The group engagement team visits the component teams on a rotational basis. In the current year the group engagement team also visited the United States of America finance function and the US PwC network firm who undertook the audit of iBasis Inc. The group consolidation, financial statement disclosures and a number of complex items were audited by the group engagement team at the company’s head office. These included purchase price allocation, taxation, goodwill impairment, pensions, derivative financial instruments, hedge accounting and share-based payments. By performing the above-mentioned procedures at components, combined with additional procedures at group level, we have obtained sufficient and appropriate audit evidence regarding the financial information of the group as a whole to provide a basis for our opinion on the consolidated financial statements. Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in the audit of the financial statements. We have communicated the key audit matters to the Supervisory Board, but they are not a comprehensive reflection of all matters that were identified by our audit and that we discussed. We described the key audit matters and included a summary of the audit procedures we performed on those matters. The key audit matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon. We do not provide a separate opinion on these matters. Key audit matter How our audit addressed the matter Best estimate sales proceeds concerning E-Plus includes uncertainty regarding net debt / working capital settlement The sale of E-Plus was completed on October 1, 2014 and related The impact of the E-Plus transaction is primarily reflected in the disclosures are included in the significant accounting policies and result from discontinued operations and financial asset classified as in the notes to the consolidated statement of financial position in available for sale (20.5% stake in Telefónica Deutschland). Our audit Note 19. procedures included, amongst others, checking the cash receipt and ownership of the 20.5% stake and agreeing the value to the The result from discontinued operations is based on the expected quoted share price of Telefónica Deutschland at completion date. sales proceeds, including the settlement of the net debt/working The expected deal proceeds are impacted by the outcome of the capital, which has not been finalized as at December 31, 2014. net debt/working capital settlement, for which management Based on an internal analysis of the net debt /working capital items, has recorded an adjustment to the sales proceeds based on its management determined a best estimate to establish an adjustment best estimate. Therefore we have also assessed the supporting to the sales proceeds to account for the outcome of the settlement documentation relating to this adjustment and challenged the process. This was important to our audit as the remaining uncertainty interpretations and judgments used by management in determining amounts to approximately 10% (positive or negative) of the 2014 its best estimate. We assessed the adequacy of the disclosures and total loss for the period from discontinued operations. appropriateness of the accounting position taken in the financial statements by management. Appropriateness of valuation of deferred tax assets regarding tax loss on sale of E-Plus At December 31, 2014, the deferred tax assets are valued at EUR Our audit procedures included, amongst others, using internal tax 1.3 billion and related disclosures are included in the summary of specialists to assist us in verifying and interpreting the agreement significant accounting policies and in the notes to the consolidated (“vaststellingsovereenkomst”) reached with the Dutch tax Authorities statement of financial position in Note 7. This was significant to our and evaluating the assumptions, such as expected future taxable audit because the assessment process is complex and judgmental and income and methodologies used by the company. This entailed is based on assumptions that are affected by expected future market reviewing the company’s latest tax planning strategy and ascertaining or economic conditions. The main element in the deferred tax assets that it was derived from the latest approved strategic business plan, is related to the discontinuance of the German activities based on which is subject to an internal management review process. We an agreement with the Dutch tax authorities, as the sale of E-Plus discussed and challenged the business plan to determine the resulted in a tax loss (‘stakingsverlies’ and future liquidation loss) appropriateness that the deferred tax assets may be recoverable which can be off-set against future taxable profits in the Netherlands. within the statutory limited timeframe of 9 years and assessed the adequacy of disclosures on the plan’s assumptions and sensitivities. 182 KPN — Integrated Annual Report 2014 Key Consolidated Corporate Financial Notes to Notes to Financial Other Statements General Notes Profit or Loss Financial Position Other Notes Statements Information Key audit matter How our audit addressed the matter Business combination related to Reggefiber including option valuation The company acquired control over, and therefore consolidated Our audit included assessing the re-measurement of the options and Reggefiber as of November 1, 2014. The related disclosures are the company’s 51% stake (both prior to conversion) as a result of the included in the summary of significant accounting policies and in the step acquisition as well as the purchase price allocation, as prepared notes to the consolidated statement of financial position in Notes 6, by the company and its external valuator. We challenged the roll out 12, 27, 30 and 31. The acquisition is material, complex and contains assumptions and the 60% penetration rate used by management by significant judgment in relation to the purchase price allocation. The reviewing roll out plans, performing look back procedures on the company, assisted by its external valuation specialists, determined company’s relative success in meeting expected penetration rates the fair value of Reggefiber and its identifiable assets and liabilities in the past, and tested the reasonableness of ODF tariff and WACC by based on a management cash flow forecast for the strategic plan making use of our internal valuation specialists. We also assessed the period, which included a number of assumptions such as the adequacy of disclosures concerning the assumptions and sensitivities, expected roll-out, penetration rate, ODF tariff and WACC. The and the appropriateness of the accounting position taken in the purchase price allocation resulted in goodwill of EUR 269 million. financial statements by management. Pension plan amendments appropriately accounted for The company reached agreement with the relevant representatives We have involved our internal pension specialists in assessing the to convert the company’s main pension plans from a defined appropriateness of the accounting for the plan amendments and benefit plan to a collective defined contribution plan as from settlements. In particular the re-measurement of the pension January 1, 2015. The disclosures are included in the summary of obligation just prior to the plan changes in accordance with IAS significant accounting policies and in the notes to the consolidated 19R – Employee Benefits involved significant judgment in relation statement of financial position in Note 23. The plan amendments to the discount rate, salary increase and indexation rate used, resulted in a total gain of EUR 477 million, a settlement lump sum which our internal pension specialists considered to assess payment of EUR 235 million to the pension fund and removal of whether these factors were within reasonably acceptable ranges. the pension provision for these plans as at December 31, 2014. We also read the plan amendments to determine that they meet This was important to our audit as accounting for these plan the criteria to qualify as defined contribution plans going forward amendments and timing of the settlements is complex. under IFRS and verified the appropriateness of the accounting, including the impact on OCI, for the plan amendments in 2014. Rationalization of internal controls framework in transition during 2014 In 2014 the company undertook a rationalization of its internal As part of our audit of the financial statements we obtained an controls framework. Management used a top down risk based understanding of internal controls relevant to the audit in order to approach resulting in more focus on review controls (i.e. analytical design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, monitoring controls) which are primarily detective type controls but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness while at the same time abandoning a number of process controls in of the company’s internal control. As a result of certain new key the new internal controls framework. This was important to our audit controls in the revenue cycle yet to be implemented and other as the company concluded that a number of (new) key controls, in deficiencies noted, we performed additional controls testing on particular for several revenue processes, had not been implemented compensating controls, not formally included in the new internal or were deficient as at December 31, 2014. Additional testing of controls framework, that still worked effectively, or alternatively, compensating controls that are no longer formally included in the performed required additional substantive tests of details to obtain new internal controls framework, but are still in operation, and sufficient appropriate audit evidence on the relevant financial additional substantive test of details have been performed by the statement line item for revenues. Management agreed that the company to sufficiently mitigate the risk of material error in the control deficiencies should be addressed as soon as possible and financial statements. The company has made disclosures in its Risk has an action plan in place. Management and Compliance section regarding the implementation of its new internal controls framework. KPN — Integrated Annual Report 2014 183 Key Consolidated Corporate Financial Notes to Notes to Financial Other Statements General Notes Profit or Loss Financial Position Other Notes Statements Information OTHER INFORMATION Independent Auditor’s Report (continued) Responsibilities of the Board of Management and the Supervisory Board The Board of Management is responsible for: ýý the preparation and fair presentation of the financial statements in accordance with EU-IFRS and with Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code, and for the preparation of the Report by the Board of Management in accordance with Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code; and for ýý such internal control as the Board of Management determines is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. As part of the preparation of the financial statements, the Board of Management is responsible for assessing the company’s ability to continue as a going concern. Based on the financial reporting frameworks mentioned, the Board of Management should prepare the financial statements using the going concern basis of accounting unless the Board of Management either intends to liquidate the company or to cease operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so. The Board of Management should disclose events and circumstances that may cast significant doubt on the company’s ability to continue as a going concern in the financial statements. The Supervisory Board is responsible for overseeing the company’s financial reporting process. Our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements Our responsibility is to plan and perform an audit engagement to obtain sufficient and appropriate audit evidence to provide a basis for our opinion. Our audit has been performed with a high but not absolute level of assurance which makes it possible that we did not detect all errors and frauds. A more detailed description of our responsibilities is set out in the appendix to our report. Report on other legal and regulatory requirements Our report on the Report by the Board of Management and the other information Pursuant to the legal requirements of Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code (concerning our obligation to report about the Report by the Board of Management and other information): ýý we have no deficiencies to report as a result of our examination whether the Report by the Board of Management, to the extent we can assess, has been prepared in accordance with Part 9 of Book 2 of this Code, and whether the information as required by Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code has been annexed; and ýý we report that the Report by the Board of Management, to the extent we can assess, is consistent with the financial statements. Our appointment We have been appointed as the auditors of Koninklijke KPN N.V. since its incorporation in 1989 and our engagement has been renewed annually by the shareholders representing a total period of uninterrupted engagement appointment of 26 years. Due to the mandatory firm rotation we will rotate off after this year. The Hague, February 25, 2015 PricewaterhouseCoopers Accountants N.V. Original has been signed by M. de Ridder RA 184 KPN — Integrated Annual Report 2014 Key Consolidated Corporate Financial Notes to Notes to Financial Other Statements General Notes Profit or Loss Financial Position Other Notes Statements Information Appendix to our auditor’s report on the financial statements 2014 of Koninklijke KPN N.V. In addition to what is included in our auditor’s report we have further set out in this appendix our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements and explained what an audit involves. The auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements We have exercised professional judgment and have maintained professional scepticism throughout the audit in accordance with Dutch Standards on Auditing, ethical requirements and independence requirements. Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. Our audit consisted, among others of: ýý Identifying and assessing the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to fraud or error, designing and performing audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtaining audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal control; ýý Obtaining an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the company’s internal control; ýý Evaluating the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and related disclosures made by the Board of Management; ýý Concluding on the appropriateness of the Board of Management’s use of the going concern basis of accounting, and based on the audit evidence obtained, concluding whether a material uncertainty exists related to events and or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the company’s ability to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in our auditor’s report to the related disclosures in the financial statements or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditor’s report and are made in the context of our opinion on the financial statements as a whole. However, future events or conditions may cause the company ceasing to continue as a going concern; ýý Evaluating the overall presentation, structure and content of the financial statements, including the disclosures, and evaluating whether the financial statements represent the underlying transactions and events in a manner that achieves fair presentation. We communicate with the supervisory board regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit and significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify during our audit. We provide the supervisory board with a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements regarding independence, and to communicate with them all relationships and other matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, and where applicable, related safeguards. From the matters communicated with the supervisory board, we determine those matters that were of most significance in the audit of the financial statements of the current period and are therefore the key audit matters. We describe these matters in our auditor’s report unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure about the matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances, not communicating the matter is in the public interest. KPN — Integrated Annual Report 2014 185 Key Consolidated Corporate Financial Notes to Notes to Financial Other Statements General Notes Profit or Loss Financial Position Other Notes Statements Information OTHER INFORMATION Proposed appropriation of result On outstanding Class B preferred shares, a dividend is paid out equal to the average of the 12-month Euribor increased by 1%. If the 12-month Euribor is no longer determined, the dividend on preference shares will be calculated based on the yield on State loans (article 35 sub 1, Articles of Association). Subsequently, subject to the approval of the Supervisory Board, the Board of Management will determine what proportion of net income remaining after payment of the dividend on any Class B preferred shares will be appropriated to the reserves (article 35 sub 2, Articles of Association). The part of the profit remaining after the appropriation to the reserves shall be at the disposal of the general meeting (article 35 sub 3, Articles of Association). The Board of Management, with the approval of the Supervisory Board, may also appropriate the complete profit to the reserves. On February 25, 2015, the Board of Management, with approval of the Supervisory Board, has allocated the loss of EUR 598 million to the Other reserves. In October, 2014, an interim dividend of EUR 0.02 was paid to all holders of ordinary shares, amounting to a total of EUR 85 million (including dividend tax). In 2013, no dividend was paid to holders of ordinary shares. The Board of Management, with the approval of the Supervisory Board, will propose to the AGM to determine the total dividend over 2014 at EUR 0.07 per ordinary share, of which EUR 0.02 has already been paid as an interim dividend. Subsequent events Reference is made to Note 34 Subsequent events in the Consolidated Financial Statements. 186 KPN — Integrated Annual Report 2014 Key Consolidated Corporate Financial Notes to Notes to Financial Other Statements General Notes Profit or Loss Financial Position Other Notes Statements Information Legal structure The following table sets out the name and jurisdiction of incorporation of, and our direct ownership and voting interest (if different) in, our principal operating subsidiaries and other principal interests as of December 31, 2014. Percentage ownership/ Name of subsidiaries and other principal interests Country of incorporation voting interest KPN B.V.: The Netherlands 100.0 – KPN EuroRings B.V. The Netherlands 100.0 – XS4ALL Internet B.V. The Netherlands 100.0 – iBasis Inc. USA 100.0 – Telfort Zakelijk B.V. The Netherlands 100.0 – Reggefiber Group B.V. The Netherlands 100.0 KPN Telecommerce B.V.: The Netherlands 100.0 – SNT Deutschland AG Germany 100.0 KPN Mobile N.V.: The Netherlands 100.0 – KPN Mobile International B.V. The Netherlands 100.0 – BASE Company N.V. Belgium 100.0 Getronics N.V.: The Netherlands 100.0 – KPN Corporate Market B.V. The Netherlands 100.0 – Getronics Finance Holdings B.V. The Netherlands 100.0 Telefónica Deutschland Holding AG Germany 20.5 KPN — Integrated Annual Report 2014 187 APPENDICES Appendix 1. Analysis of adjusted results 2014 The following table shows the key items between reported and adjusted revenues (including other income). E-Plus continued to be included in KPN’s segment reporting until the third quarter of 20141. Adjusted revenues and other income is derived from revenues (including other income) and is adjusted for the impact of incidentals. Incidentals are non-recurring transactions which are not directly related to day to day operational activities over EUR 5 million unless significant for the specific reportable segment. FY 2014 FY 2014 FY 2013 FY 2013 Δ y-on-y Δ y-on-y Revenues and other income (in EUR m) reported Incidentals adjusted reported Incidentals adjusted reported adjusted Germany (incl. discontinued operations) 2,428 – 2,428 3,197 29 3,168 -24% -23% Belgium 711 2 709 728 – 728 -2.3% -2.6% Other 33 – 33 41 – 41 -20% -20% Mobile International 3,172 2 3,170 3,966 29 3,937 -20% -19% Consumer Mobile 1,407 – 1,407 1,510 7 1,503 -6.8% -6.4% Consumer Residential 1,916 – 1,916 1,962 13 1,949 -2.3% -1.7% Business 2,920 10 2,910 3,201 23 3,178 -8.8% -8.4% NetCo 2,262 17 2,245 2,343 -13 2,356 -3.5% -4.7% Other -2,050 30 -2,080 -2,214 – -2,214 -7.4% -6.1% The Netherlands 6,455 57 6,398 6,802 30 6,772 -5.1% -5.5% iBasis 948 – 948 969 – 969 -2.2% -2.2% Other activities 81 – 81 78 – 78 3.8% 3.8% Intercompany revenues -221 – -221 -247 – -247 -11% -11% KPN Group 10,435 59 10,376 11,568 59 11,509 -9.8% -9.8% Of which discontinued operations 2,352 – 2,352 3,096 29 3,067 -24% -23% KPN Group continuing operations 8,083 59 8,024 8,472 30 8,442 -4.6% -5.0% The following table specifies the revenue incidentals in more detail. Revenue incidentals (in EUR m) Segment FY 2014 FY 2013 Phase out SNOW Belgium 2 – Sale of fixed assets (hardware) Business 5 – Tax settlement related to 2013 Other (the Netherlands) 30 – Change in provision NetCo 17 -13 Impact disposal of subsidiaries Business – 23 Adjustment deferred revenues Germany, Consumer Residential, Mobile, Business 5 49 KPN Group 59 59 Of which discontinued operations – 29 KPN Group continuing operations 59 30 1) Reference is made to Note 19 of the financial statements for further information on the sale of E-Plus and the impact on KPN’s financial information. 188 KPN — Integrated Annual Report 2014 The following table shows the key items between reported and adjusted EBITDA. E-Plus continued to be included in KPN’s segment reporting until the third quarter of 20142. Adjusted EBITDA is derived from EBITDA and is adjusted for the impact of restructuring costs and incidentals. Incidentals are nonrecurring transactions which are not directly related to day to day operational activities over EUR 5 million unless significant for the specific reportable segment. FY 2014 FY 2014 FY 2013 FY 2013 Δ y-on-y Δ y-on-y EBITDA (in EUR m) reported Incidentals Restructuring adjusted reported Incidentals Restructuring adjusted reported adjusted Germany (incl. discontinued operations) 729 8 -12 733 963 66 – 897 -24% -18% Belgium 149 -3 -4 156 192 6 – 186 -22% -16% Other -8 – -3 -5 4 12 – -8 n.m. -38% Mobile International 870 5 -19 884 1,159 84 – 1,075 -25% -18% Consumer Mobile 191 – -1 192 410 7 -7 410 -53% -53% Consumer Residential 404 – -8 412 375 13 -17 379 7.7% 8.7% Business 590 10 -26 606 706 13 -47 740 -16% -18% NetCo 1,241 17 -4 1,228 1,297 9 -10 1,298 -4.3% -5.4% Other 24 30 -15 9 -33 – -32 -1 n.m. n.m. The Netherlands 2,450 57 -54 2,447 2,755 42 -113 2,826 -11% -13% iBasis 23 – – 23 29 – – 29 -21% -21% Other activities 403 472 -23 -46 -101 -77 -9 -15 n.m. >100% KPN Group 3,746 534 -96 3,308 3,842 49 -122 3,915 -2.5% -16% Of which discontinued operations 731 8 -12 735 959 66 – 893 -24% -18% KPN Group continuing operations 3,015 526 -84 2,573 2,883 -17 -122 3,022 4.6% -15% The following table specifies the EBITDA incidentals in more detail. EBITDA incidentals (in EUR m) Segment FY 2014 FY 2013 Tax settlement related to 2013 Other (The Netherlands) 30 – Phase out SNOW Belgium -3 – Volume discount hardware Germany 8 – Change in provisions NetCo, Business, Other 17 -78 Sale of fixed assets (hardware) Business 5 – Release of pension provision Other activities 477 – Adjustment deferred revenues Germany, Consumer Residential, Mobile, Business 5 49 Impact disposal of subsidiaries Business – 23 Release of asset retirement obligation NetCo, Belgium, Germany – 48 Release accruals NetCo – 7 Book loss related to asset held for sale classification SNT Deutschland Other activities -5 – KPN Group 534 49 Of which discontinued operations 8 66 KPN Group continuing operations 526 -17 2) Reference is made to Note 19 of the financial statements for further information on the sale of E-Plus and the impact on KPN’s financial information. KPN — Integrated Annual Report 2014 189 APPENDICES Appendix 2. Overview of main CSR targets and achievements6 Theme/KPI Target 2014 Result 2014 Result 2013 Transparent and reliable service provider Net Promotor Score (NPS) -51 -3 -10 Consumer Mobile: -3 Consumer Mobile: 2 Consumer Mobile: -6 Consumer Residential: -1 Consumer Residential: 2 Consumer Residential: -5 Business Market: -12 Business Market: -13 Business Market: -18 Weighted downtime reduction N/a N/a N/a Best-in-class networks % of the Netherlands that agree 50% Consumers: 47% best fixed network, Consumers: 46% best fixed network, that KPN has the best ICT Infrastructure 46% best mobile network2 52% best mobile network2 Business: 74% fixed network Business: 64% best fixed network, and 68% mobile network2 58% best mobile network2 # of households with more than N/a 4 million N/a 100 Mb connection Dropped-call rate nationwide: decrease N/a > 77,000 customers with N/a spread of dropped-call rate (DCR per week) underperformance3 Healthcare of the Future # of healthcare locations connected 4,500 4,297 4,319 # of healthcare customers provided with 42,000 38,696 ~40,000 personal comfort services # of chronically ill children provided with a 550 540 192 KPN Classmate The New Way of Living & Working % of KPN employees in the Netherlands who 90% 78%5 74% feel they can work in line with The New Way of Living & Working Growth in the Netherlands of the use 20% compared with 2013 43% compared with 20137 5% compared with 2012 of services that make The New Way of Living & Working possible Energy efficient % reduction of CO2 emissions 96% 98% 94% KPN Group compared with 2005 Energy savings by customers as % of KPN Improve calculations current 30% CO2 saving calculated for Group’s own energy use products / services in scope 8 services in NL Extend savings calculation to more products / services CO2 -emission in the value chain Extend calculations to KPN Group Calculations of KPN NL improved First calculation based on GHG (scope 3 in GHG protocol) protocol NL Define targets for 2015 Preparation to extend calculations on upand downstream to KPN Group in 2015 reduction emissions % reduction of energy consumption of 11% 16% 12% KPN Group compared with 2010 Privacy & Security % of Dutch people who believe their data is 70% 69% 69% safe with KPN # of customers that choose opt-in for sharing 250,000 156,677 N/a personal data on traffic and roaming with KPN # of KPN E-ID users N/a N/a N/a Our people Overall % of women at KPN in the 25% or higher 24%9 24%9 Netherlands9 Employee survey score on Engagement and Engagement: > 63% Engagement: 70% Engagement: 63%10 Sustainable employability10 Sustainable employability: >56% Sustainable employability: 56% Vitality: 56%10 Sustainable employability: % of employees N/a ~80% N/a with a new job < 1 year after leaving KPN Suppliers % realized improvements on corrective N/a N/a N/a action plans # of sustainable solutions with impact > 5 5 5 1 year including a cost saving for KPN. 1) The 2014 target was defined during 2014, based on the average of the defined targets for Consumer Mobile, Consumer Residential and Business Market. 2) A substantial number of people has no opinion about who has the best network. We excluded this group of respondents from the scores. 3) Underperformance is internally defined by an exact percentage of dropped-calls per user that is acceptable (supported by own research). Due to competitive advantage, we do not share this percentage. 4) This target is lower than 2014, due to the sale of part of the healthcare portfolio (including HealthcareMedia) to SPIE Nederland. 5) As of 2014, employees who, by the nature of their work, cannot work in line with the New Way of Living & Working are excluded from the measurement. 6) For a full overview of all CSR targets and achievements, see Appendix 8 in the online version. 190 KPN — Integrated Annual Report 2014 Result 2012 Target 2015 Target 2016 and beyond Sections -11 3 Quality and reputation, Customer loyalty, Consumer Mobile: -6 Consumer Mobile: 7 p. 31-32. Consumer Residential: -10 Consumer Residential: 7 Business Market: -17 Business Market: -6 N/a -30% Netco, p. 60-63. Consumers: 51% best fixed network, 60% Netco, p. 60-63. 51% best mobile network2 N/a > 5.6 million Netco, p. 60-63. N/a ~25% reduction of customers with Netco, p. 60-63. underperformance3 compared to 2014 4,038 4,700 Business, Healthcare of the future, p. 57-59. ~21,000 31,000 4 Business, Healthcare of the future, p. 57-59. 216 1,250 Quality and reputation, Sponsoring, p. 32-33. 76% 90% Our people, p. 34-37. 17% compared with 2011 40% compared with 2014 Business, The New Way of Living & Working, p. 59. 93% 100% Remain climate neutral for own Environment, p. 40-43. operations KPN Bespaarmeter implemented, no More products calculated to realize Save as much energy with our Environment, p. 40-43. results measured 10% more savings compared with products as our own energy 2014 consumption (PJ) in 2020 N/a Define targets both on upstream and Environment, p. 40-43. downstream emission reduction where possible Environment, p. 40-43. 9%7 17% 19% in 2016 Environment, p. 40-43. 66% 70% Privacy & Security, p. 44-47. N/a 300,000 Privacy & Security, p. 44-47. N/a 8,000 Privacy & Security, p. 44-47. 23.4%9 30% 30% Our people, p. 34-37. N/a 1) Overall engagement: > 70% Our people, p. 34-37. 2) Working environment: > 61% 3) Strategy & Leadership: > 41% N/a 80% Our people, p. 34-37. N/a 30% >30% Our suppliers, p. 38-39. N/a 5 Our suppliers, p. 38-39. 7) Unweighted average of mature and growth services categories. 8) Energy saving accounted for a part of the reduction in comparison with 2010. The remaining reduction was the result of the sale of Getronics International in 2012. 9) Results are based on the employee population of KPN in the Netherlands in line with the population for the public commitment ‘Talent to the Top’. 10) In 2014, sustainable employment is measured and included in the target instead of vitality. The target for 2015 is based on three main attributes of our employee engagement study. The results of previous years are adjusted based on the results of the employee population still working for KPN in order to improve comparability (employees who left KPN are retrospectively excluded from the results of previous years) KPN — Integrated Annual Report 2014 191 APPENDICES Appendix 3. Scope, reporting process and materiality determination Scope sustainability information data per KPN business unit: KPN the Netherlands, BASE Company, and other subsidiaries of the KPN Group. Where available and The purpose of the sustainability information in our Integrated relevant, the report includes data for previous years. Quantitative Report (including the GRI index and social and environmental figures data concerning the workforce and financial results set out in this appendices as published on our website), covering the calendar year report has been collected using our financial data management 2014, is to inform our stakeholders about our role in society, in system. The remaining data set out in this report has been collected connection with our main strategic objectives and targets. We using a standardized questionnaire that was completed by the regard as stakeholders all people and organizations affected by responsible KPN business units. The Internal Audit and Corporate our operations or with whom we maintain a relationship, such Control departments used consistency and availability of supporting as customers, employees, shareholders, banks, suppliers, evidence as the basis for their assessment of the data reported at journalists, partners and social organizations. group level. Validation criteria set out in advance were also used to assess the data. The scope of the sustainability information in this report, GRI index and social and environmental figures (appendices) covers In order to provide our stakeholders comfort over the reliability of the KPN Group including subsidiaries in which KPN has a majority our reporting, we engaged PricewaterhouseCoopers Accountants shareholding. Unless stated otherwise, references to KPN should N.V. (PwC) to provide reasonable assurance on KPN’s Dutch net CO2 be read as referring to the KPN Group. In this report (including the emissions (excluding scope 3 emissions) and the underlying energy GRI index and social and environmental appendices published consumption (see table p. 43). Limited assurance is provided on all on our website), KPN the Netherlands refers to all the activities other metrics in the scope of PwC, including the information in the of the KPN Group in the Netherlands. Outside the Netherlands, appendix Environmental figures to the Integrated Annual Report on our principal divisions are BASE Company, iBasis, Ortel Mobile www.kpn.com/annualreport (see also page 101-103). Reasonable and SNT. For our non-financial information, we include new assurance is obtained through audit work, while other elements acquisitions in our report as of the first full year of ownership. of the report have been reviewed. Review work provides only Non-financial information for divestments that occurred during limited assurance because exhaustive gathering of evidence is not the reporting year is excluded for the full year. The data in this required. The assurance work is performed in accordance with the report refers to KPN’s performance and not to that of our Assurance Standard 3810N ‘Assurance Engagements Relating to subcontractors, unless stated otherwise. The full scope of the Sustainability Reports’ as drawn up by the professional body of financial information is reported in the Consolidated Financial Dutch Accountants (NBA). Statements (p. 104-173). The key social and environmental figures, which are available This report specifically reviews developments and performance in the appendices (appendix 5 and 6) on www.kpn.com/ in 2014 and is based on topics identified as highly material for annualreport, are also part of this report. Partly, they provide KPN. Aspects of a more static nature (such as our management more detailed numbers on key figures that reflect on highly approaches to our CSR themes and our stakeholders) or with less material topics within the report (such as CO2 emissions and reporting priority (such as our impact on biodiversity and the list electricity consumption). Partly, they provide quantitative of external memberships) are included in the GRI index (www.kpn. information (multiple years) on medium material topics which com/annualreport)or reported on http://corporate.kpn.com/ are represented qualitatively within the report or information dutch-society.htm. requested by some external benchmarks. All information in the sustainability appendices is covered by the external assurance. Reporting process sustainability information Calculation methodology energy saving by ICT The Integrated Report is published on February 26, 2015. For this services report, we have applied the guidelines from the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). Furthermore, we use the International Integrated We used calculations to estimate the energy saving impact of several Reporting Council (IIRC) Integrated Reporting (IR) framework as a of our products and services. The results are presented in the chapter guideline for our Integrated Report. The sustainability information Environment of this Integrated Report. Three services were identified in this report is presented in accordance with the comprehensive with the highest savings impact: Teleworking (enabled by KPN option of GRI G4. This means that KPN reports on all general connectivity services, Conferencing (using KPN’s Conference Card) standard disclosures and all specific standard disclosures related and KPN’s Colocation and Hosting services. For Teleworking and to identified material topics. The process for defining the material Conferencing, the reduction in energy consumption is primarily topics and report content, as well as the list of material topics, caused by avoided travel (by car or by public transport). For is described in the materiality determination (see ‘materiality colocation and hosting, the reduction is caused by the better cooling determination’ in this appendix). The results of this assessment energy efficiency (PUE) of the KPN datacenters compared with the (list of material topics for KPN, including their reporting priority) (average) cooling energy efficiency of ICT rooms at the customers’ determine which GRI indicators are set out in the Integrated Report premises. In all calculations, the rebound effects are also taken into and which indicators are featured only on our website or in our GRI account. For instance, when working at home in the case of index. The overview can be found in the GRI index. In addition to Teleworking, extra electricity and gas for heating are used. The these GRI G4 guidelines, KPN has taken as its point of orientation savings calculation model has been developed by Ecofys during a the pilot version of the Telecommunications Sector Supplement, project with KPN end 2013 to make the first calculation (for 2013). as published by GRI in 2003, in determining material topics. This calculation model is further refined, improved and extended (calculating energy, cost and carbon savings) in 2014. For each The GRI Index specifies the aspect boundaries and omitted indicators service, the input variables are defined (the so-called reference where relevant (including clarifications). In the Integrated Report, values) and with this data the savings are calculated. For each there are no departures of any significance from the GRI standard service in scope, the installed base volumes of delivered products disclosures. This report shows the performance indicators applicable and services is the key variable in the reference values. These are to the KPN Group. Where relevant, the appendices contain specified reported by the KPN organization (Product management and/or 192 KPN — Integrated Annual Report 2014 Operations). All other variables in the reference values needed Scope 3 – Other indirect emissions due to: inputs for the savings calculation, such as average home-work ýý Emissions in our upstream value chain (during the production distance (km), average car fuel consumption (km/liter), transport phase of our products, services and equipment at our suppliers) mode (% by car, % by public transport, % walking) and so on. ýý Emissions in our downstream value chain (during the use phase including recycling and disposal of the products, These reference values are based on several sources: services and equipment). ýý Actual measurements (by KPN, by customers or other sources) ýý Publicly available data and statistics from governments1, In 2013, we performed an impact assessment on all 15 GHG scope 3 research institutes, and sector organizations (e.g. GeSI2, ITU3) categories for our operations in the Netherlands. The result was that ýý External expertise from consultancy firms 4 five categories were not applicable; for the remaining ten categories ýý Scenario analyses based on KPN’s savings calculation tool 5 the emissions have been calculated. We were supported by the ýý Expert judgments (KPN product management and other sources) consultancy and expertise of Ecofys6 in this process. The calculations are based on the Greenhouse Gas Protocol scope 3 standard7. The Some reference values need further measurement and research. results and next steps are presented in the chapter Environment. For example, we want to ask our Conferencing customers to respond to some questions after a meeting: with how many 82% of our scope 3 emissions are upstream emissions. The persons they were attending the meeting, how many travel majority of the upstream emissions are calculated based on kilometers were avoided and by which travel mode. We will procurement data (supplier spend) combined with emission continue to improve the quality of the critical reference values to factors obtained from the Environmentally Extended Input Output make the calculation results more robust. This savings calculation data (EEIO) approach. We use the emission factors (g CO2 per GBP model can also be used by our sales employees to calculate the spend) published by DEFRA8. We convert the GBP values to Euros expected energy, cost and carbon savings of our products and and take inflation into account. We used the ISIC guidance services, together with our customers. (International Standard Industrial Classification of All Economic Activities)9 for the correct mapping of specific suppliers or supplier Calculation and determination of reported categories to a category in the supply chain emission factors list of emissions DEFRA, when applicable. In the Integrated Report, KPN reports the CO2 emissions in accordance The downstream emissions account for 18% of the total scope 3 with the method of the Greenhouse Gas Protocol and the ISO 14064-1 emissions. The downstream category with the largest impact is standard. KPN uses the operational control approach when reporting Downstream Leased assets. This calculation is based on the total CO2 emissions. Two of the six greenhouses gases are most relevant to annual electricity consumption of our installed equipment at the KPN, carbon dioxide (CO2) and hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs). Where customer premises (such as modems for internet access and set-top available, we have taken CH4 and N2O into consideration in our boxes). This equipment remains the property of KPN and is returned at greenhouse gas emissions information. We use the term ‘CO2 its end of life. Emissions of transportation of this equipment (forward emissions’ to refer to the greenhouse gas emissions reported to customer and backward to KPN) are accounted in the category on. These are stated in CO2 equivalents. Downstream transportation and distribution. In this category, all our activities of our Logistic Service Partners (LSPs) are accounted for. The The KPN emissions report is subdivided as follows: emission calculation is based on EEIO using the supplier spend and the corresponding emission factor. The second downstream impact Scope 1 – Direct emissions due to: category is Use of sold product (accounts for 2% of scope 3 emissions). ýý Fuel consumption of the lease vehicle fleet (employees’ passenger vehicles and commercial vehicles) The three highest impact categories are Purchased goods and ýý Heating of buildings (gas) services (43%), Capital goods (26%) and Downstream Leased assets ýý Consumption of hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs) for air conditioning (15%). So 84% of the emissions are based on spend data (EEIO) and and/or cooling installed base data. These calculations are based on actual available ýý Fuel consumption of emergency power generators data within KPN and include almost no assumptions. The remaining 16% of the scope 3 emissions are calculations with several estimates Scope 2 – Indirect emissions due to: and assumptions, which are made based on publicly available or ýý Electricity consumption of the fixed and mobile networks, own measured data and expert judgment. We will try to further datacenters, offices and shops improve the quality of these assumptions and estimations to ýý District heating improve the robustness of the calculations. ýý District cooling For details of the individual scopes, we refer you to the environmental indicators (EN3 to EN7, E16 and E17) in the 2014 GRI index on www.kpn.com/annualreport. 1) For example, Mobiliteitsbalans 2013, Ministry of Infrastructure & 6) http://www.ecofys.com/en/publication/ict-footprint Environment, http://www.kimnet.nl/publicatie/mobiliteitsbalans-2013 7) http://www.ghgprotocol.org/standards/scope-3-standard 2) GeSI SMARTer2020: The Role of ICT in Driving a Sustainable Future 8) Indirect emissions from the supply chain (Table 13), version March 2014 http://gesi.org/SMARTer2020 Statistics UK Carbon Footprint DEFRA (Department for Environment, Food and 3) Methodology for Environmental Life Cycle Assessment of ICT goods, Rural Affairs) https://www.gov.uk/government/statistics/uks-carbon-footprint networks and services http://www.itu.int/ITU-T/recommendations/rec. 9) ISIC Rev4 http://unstats.un.org/unsd/cr/registry/regcst.asp?Cl=27 aspx?rec=12207 4) Huge emissions saving potential from flexible working, Ecofys report, http://www.ecofys.com/en/news/179/ 5) Savings calculations tool for 8 services developed in 2012 together with Ecofys, www.kpnbespaarmeter.nl KPN — Integrated Annual Report 2014 193 APPENDICES Appendix 3. Scope, reporting process and materiality determination Methodology The energy targets for KPN are related to different base years. The base year 2005 (for targets on improving energy efficiency and reducing absolute electricity consumption) were determined Comprehensive at the start of the energy efficiency program in 2008. Most of the list of subjects targets that were introduced after 2010 have 2010 as a reference (incl. GRI, topics year (due to data availability), with the exception of the Belgium identified otherwise) targets (base year 2009). 1. Activities Emissions (CO2 and HFCs) are calculated based on all the activities Step 1: of the KPN Group. Most of the emissions relate to activities that Determine impact use energy, such as the electricity consumption of the networks, Relevant topics transport, and heating and/or cooling buildings. As virtually all the emissions are of CO2, details of this are given below. KPN reports on a number of ratios, which are included in the figures Step 2: in the chapter Environment and in appendix 6 on Environmental Material topics Determine priority figures. The footnotes show the denominator used. 2. Emission factors The CO2 emissions are calculated by multiplying the consumption Telecommunication Sector Supplement, as published by GRI data for each activity by the CO2 emission factors for each unit of in 2003. Where relevant, missing topics are added, including consumption. These emission factors are updated annually. KPN topics identified during media scans and stakeholder dialogues. uses a monitoring protocol for the carbon footprint reporting. In Following the update of the list, KPN assesses the relevance of this protocol, all sources for used emission factors are specified. each of the topics. Relevant topics are those on which KPN has The emissions factors are checked and updated annually when or can have an impact (inside the organization and in the value necessary. The most important sources for our emissions factors chain or society). This is determined based on stakeholder input are IEA (International Energy Agency) and DEFRA. and KPN’s own experience. The outcome is an overview of all relevant topics. 3. Accuracy The accuracy of the consumption data is a key factor in the Step 2: Determining reporting priority reliability of the CO2 emissions calculations. In the data collection The second step aims to assess the reporting priority of all process, a number of factors affect the accuracy of the collected relevant topics, which is presented graphically and used not only data. In general, the data originating from direct measurements to determine the contents of the Integrated Report but also as and recordings, such as summaries from energy and other input to determine our (CSR) strategy, policies and approach. suppliers and direct invoices, are the most accurate. Data may also be estimated or calculated, using assumptions and expert KPN determines the reporting priority by reviewing all relevant opinions. The materiality of all KPN units and subsidiaries is topics on: (1) significance of the topic for KPN and (2) significance determined every year on the basis of sales and number of of the topic for key stakeholders. This review is performed using FTEs (>=1% of the total). nine criteria, which are relevant to KPN and based on GRI G4. The priority determination is performed twice a year: a preliminary As electricity providers estimate our electricity consumption review and a final review including all inputs from stakeholder for a part of our network operations (approximately 20% of dialogues and stakeholder surveys performed throughout the year total consumption), and not in all cases perform a meter in order to validate the outcomes. The result of this second step is reading annually, some uncertainty exists about the accuracy an overview of all material topics for KPN, which is supported by and completeness of our energy consumption. As this uncertainty current stakeholder expectations. The materiality chart combines cancels out over the years as actual meter readings are processed the two aspects schematically. The combination of the horizontal by our energy suppliers, we use energy consumption data from axis (significance to KPN) and the vertical axis (significance to invoices as a basis to report our energy consumption and stakeholders) determines the degree of influence that the topic greenhouse gas emissions. has on our reputation and therefore the reporting priority. KPN divides the results into three categories: For the data collection and auditing, KPN employees use several ýý Highly material topics: we aim to fulfill a leading role on internal audit measures to minimize the risk of incomplete and these topics and translate them into our six CSR themes incorrect reporting of consumption data. and two additional themes. We report on these topics in our Integrated Report. Materiality determination ýý Medium material topics: we want to demonstrate our social responsibility regarding these topics. We report on them in our The annual materiality assessment is the basis for determining the GRI index, additional policy document and/or on our website. report content and is performed before the Integrated Report is ýý Low material topics: these are topics we monitor, but do not compiled. The assessment is approved by the Board of report on. Management. The process consists of three steps: Our materiality determination is based on the complete list of Step 1: Identification of relevant aspects and other topics general and sector-specific aspects provided by GRI G4. The highly The goal of the first step is to create a gross overview of relevant material and medium material aspects were translated into topics CSR topics. In this process, KPN annually updates a comprehensive relevant for KPN. In order to see which GRI aspects are translated list of topics based on GRI guidelines and the pilot version of the into KPN topics, please see the cross-reference on the next page. 194 KPN — Integrated Annual Report 2014 Materiality assessment Highly material topics Low material topics 2 1. Financial performance 24. Environmental compliance 1 2. Sustainable employment 25. Grievance mechanisms for 3. Privacy & Security environment and impacts 4. Climate & energy on society 4 5. Impact of ICT applications 26. Environmental investment on societal issues 27. Public policy 6 5 3 6. Diversity 28. Procurement practices 7. Innovation & investments 29. Efﬂuents and waste 8. Indirect Economic Impacts 30. Community engagement 9. Restructuring 31. Market presence 13 10. Compliance 32. Human rights assessment Significance to stakeholders 14 33. Water 9 10 7 34. Biodiversity 15 Medium material topics 35. Indigenous rights 11. Training 22 8 36. Human rights for 11 12. Customer loyalty 16 security personnel 12 13. Safe customer behavior 21 18 17 14. Sustainable suppliers 20 19 15. Electromagnetic ﬁelds and radiation 16. Human rights and discrimination 25 24 17. Digital participation 18. Health & vitality 23 19. Equal remuneration 20. Ethical complaints procedures 29 27 21. Marketing communications 22. Resource use 34 31 30 23. Car ﬂeet 26 33 32 28 35 36 Low material topics Medium material topics Highly material topics Significance to KPN For more information on material topics and KPN’s performance, Medium material topic KPN Corresponding GRI G4 aspects please refer to our GRI Index. Training Training and education Customer loyalty Product and services labeling Highly material topic KPN Corresponding GRI G4 aspects Safe customer behavior Secure use of products and services, Financial performance Economic performance Customer health & safety Sustainable employment Employment Sustainable suppliers Supplier environmental assessment, Supplier human rights assessment and Supplier labor Privacy & Security Security ICT infrastructure, Customer privacy practices assessment Climate & energy Energy, Emissions Electromagnetic fields Electromagnetic fields and radiation Impact of ICT applications Impact of ICT applications, Products and and radiation on societal issues services Human rights and Investment, Non-discrimination, Freedom of Diversity Diversity and equal opportunity discrimination association and collective bargaining, Child Innovation & investments ICT infrastructure investments, Investment labor, Forced or compulsory labor Indirect economic impacts Indirect economic impacts Digital participation Digital divide Reorganization Labor/management relations Health & vitality Occupational health & safety Compliance Anti-competitive behavior, Compliance, Equal remuneration Equal remuneration for women and men Anti-corruption, products and services Ethical complaints Labor practices grievance mechanisms, compliance & procedures Human rights grievances mechanisms Marketing communications Marketing communications Resource use Materials Car fleet Transport The KPN labeling of low material topics corresponds with GRI G4 aspects one-to-one. Step 3: Implementation Based on the priority outcomes of the materiality determination (approved by the BoM), we determine the topics to be addressed in the report, including the scope and aspect boundaries of all material topics. Business units are informed on new and altered topics to be acted and reported on, to prepare reporting systems, enhance internal mechanisms, develop reporting definitions and, where relevant, targets. Timelines are developed and new/altered topics are included in the relevant reporting process mechanisms (financial/HR data management systems or CSR questionnaires). KPN — Integrated Annual Report 2014 195 APPENDICES Appendix 4. Glossary of terms 2G Cloud services Second Generation Mobile System, which B Cloud services are standardized IT capability is based on the GSM universal standard. (services, software or infrastructure) delivered via internet technologies in a pay-per-use, 3G BCF (Business Control Framework) self-service way. Third Generation Mobile System, which The Business Control Framework contains is based on the UMTS universal standard. all corporate policies and guidelines that CO2 are mandatory for KPN segments and Carbon dioxide is a gas that is created when 4G entities. It forms the cornerstone of the fossil fuels such as oil and coal are burned. Fourth Generation Mobile System, a governance of the KPN Group. Carbon dioxide is a greenhouse gas. standard for wireless communication delivering high-speed data for mobile BiPT (Belgisch instituut voor Postdiensten Committed ARPU phones and data terminals. en Telecommunicatie) Committed ARPU is the monthly fixed fees The Belgian Institute for Postal Services KPN receives per user, which are included and Telecommunications operates as the in the customer’s bundle. telecommunications regulator in Belgium. A Conflict minerals Broadband Conflict minerals are minerals mined under Broadband refers to telecommunication conditions of armed conflicts and human Access lines that provides multiple channels of data rights issues. These minerals are used in a Access lines are the total number over a single communications medium, variety of products, including consumer of traditional voice and VoIP typically using some form of frequency electronic devices such as mobile phones. connections provided to customers or wave division multiplexing. of KPN’s Business segment as of the CSAM end of the specified period. BYOD (Bring Your Own Device) Child Sexual Abusive Material The technology of Bring Your Own Device ACM (BYOD) enables employees to use their own CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility) The Dutch Competition Authority devices (laptops, tablets and smartphones) Corporate Social Responsibility, to KPN, is the (Autoriteit Consument en Markt or ‘ACM’) at the office. integrated vision of entrepreneurship, in acts as a regulator in the Netherlands and which the company takes responsibility and is responsible for monitoring compliance creates value in economic (Profit), ecological with anti-trust rules. (Planet) and social (People) terms. We C incorporate CSR into our business and by ADR doing so, take our social responsibility and American Depository Receipt. contribute to societal challenges. CBb (College van Beroep voor het Adjusted revenues and adjusted EBITDA bedrijfsleven) Customer base Adjusted revenues and adjusted EBITDA are The Trade and Industry Appeals Tribunal Customer base is the total number derived from revenues (including other in the Netherlands. of subscribers. income) and EBITDA, respectively, and are adjusted for the impact of restructuring CDMA costs and incidentals. Incidentals are Code Division Multiple Access. non-recurring transactions which are not D directly related to day-to-day operational CDP activities over 5 million unless significant The CDP (formerly Carbon Disclosure for the specific reportable segment. Project) is a joint initiative of investors DEFRA worldwide that questions and benchmarks UK Department for Environment Food & ADSL (Asymmetric Digital Subscriber Line) listed companies on their approach to Rural Affairs. DEFRA published conversion With ADSL, transmissions from provider to climate change. factors to calculate greenhouse gas user take place at a higher speed than from emissions. user to provider. ADSL allows high-speed Churn digital communication, including video The number of mobile customers no longer DJSI (Dow Jones Sustainability Index) signals, across an ordinary twisted-pair copper connected to a mobile operator’s network The Dow Jones Sustainability Index phone line. An ADSL modem is required. divided by the operator’s customer base. is a collection of indices that track the performance of companies that are ARPU (Average Revenue Per User) CISO (Chief Information Security Office) frontrunners in terms of CSR. The DJSI ARPU is the sum of connection fees, monthly CISO is responsible within KPN for the is based on an analysis of corporate fixed subscription revenues, traffic revenues security of the IT and TI architecture. economic, environmental and social and gross service provider revenues less Part of this office are the CISO REDteam, performance. There are several sub-indices related discounts during a one-month period, KPN’s ethical hacking team and the CERT based on geographical parameters. divided by the average number of customers (Computer Emergency Response Team) that during that month. Gross service provider acts in case of a (potential) cyber attack. Drop call rate revenues represent revenues generated by The drop call rate is the fraction of telephone third-party providers. KPN accounts for the Climate neutral calls which are cut off unexpectedly as a net part as gross service provider revenues. For KPN, climate neutral means operating result of technical issues, measured as a with zero net CO2 emissions. percentage of all calls. 196 KPN — Integrated Annual Report 2014 DSL (Digital Subscriber Line) FttH (Fiber-to-the-Home) DSL is a technology for bringing high FttH is defined as an access network H bandwidth information to homes and small architecture in which the final part of businesses over ordinary copper PSTN the connection to the home consists lines. The widely used term xDSL refers to of optical fiber. Hertz different variations of DSL, such as ADSL, Hertz is a unit of frequency of one cycle per HDSL, VDSL and SDSL. FttO (Fiber-to-the-Office) second. FttO is fiber connection for business DTA (Telecommunicatiewet) customers to the customers’ offices. HSDPA (High-Speed Downlink Packet The Dutch Telecommunications Act. Access)/HSPA+ (Evolved High-Speed FttHA (Fiber-to-the-Home activated) Packet Access) Homes activated is the number of homes HSDPA and HSPA+ are mobile telephony that are connected to fiber and have a protocols that, as an evolution of UMTS, E subscriber with a service provider. are designed to increase the available data rate by a factor 5 or more. FttHP (Fiber-to-the-Home passed) EBITDA Homes passed is the number of homes that Operating result before depreciation and a service provider has capability to connect impairments of PP&E and amortization and through fiber in a service area. I impairments of intangible assets. EEIO (Environmentally-extended input i change output data) G The interactive coaching program for EEIO models estimate energy use companies and their employees, that and/or GHG emissions resulting from supports people in changing their the production and upstream supply GHG (Greenhouse Gas) Protocol behavior in health-related areas. chain activities of different sectors and The Greenhouse Gas Protocol Initiative is a products. The resulting EEIO emissions multi-stakeholder partnership of business, ICT factors can be used to estimate cradle-tonon-governmental organizations (NGOs), Information and Communication Technology. gate GHG emissions for a given industry or governments, and others that develop product category. EEIO models are derived internationally accepted GHG accounting IPTV by allocating national GHG emissions to and reporting standards for organizations. IPTV is a system through which television groups of finished products based on services are delivered using the internet economic flows between industry sectors. GHz protocol suite over a packet-switched network GHz is one billion hertz (a unit of frequency). such as the internet. iTV (‘Interactieve TV’) is E-TASC KPN’s IPTV offering in the Netherlands. E-TASC is a worldwide self-audit system for Green electricity suppliers in the ICT-sector. Green electricity is electricity from IP-VPN (Internet Protocol – Virtual Private renewable sources. KPN only uses wind Network) E-VPN (Ethernet Virtual Private Network) energy and electricity from biomass that Offers a secured and private network using E-VPN is a VPN that connects two or more does not compete with food production. IP-based infrastructure. offices using IP-VPN and extends the benefits of ethernet technology that has GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) ISDN (Integrated Services Digital traditionally been confined to the LAN. The Global Reporting Initiative is an Network) organization that publishes international A worldwide digital communications guidelines for CSR reporting. network evolving from existing telephone services. A standard ISDN connection F GRIP consists of three channels, i.e. two B GRIP is the integrated risk management channels to carry data and voice at a speed system of KPN. It is an acronym for of 64 Kbps and one D channel to carry Fiber-optic cable Governance & Compliance, Risk control information at a speed of 16 Kbps. Fiber-optic cable is a transmission medium management, Internal control and Processes. composed of extremely pure and uniform ISO (International Organization for glass. Digital signals are transmitted across GPRS Standardization) fiber-optic cable as pulses of light. While GPRS is an application that enables data This organization is responsible for signals transmitted over fiber-optic cable packet switching via GSM networks as well international management standards such travel at the same speed as those transmitted as via existing voice communication. GPRS as ISO 14001, ISO 140064-1, ISO 27001 and over traditional copper cable, fiber-optic cable is based on and complements GSM. ISO 22301 (mentioned in this report). benefits from greater transmission capacity and lower distortion of signals transmitted. ISP (Internet Service Provider) A company that provides individuals FTE (full-time equivalent) and companies access to the internet. The equivalent of the number of employees with a full-time contract. KPN — Integrated Annual Report 2014 197 APPENDICES Appendix 4. Glossary of terms J Mbps (Megabits per second) Mbps is a unit of data transfer rate equal to O 1 million bits per second. The bandwidths of broadband networks are often indicated Open access JAC (Joint Audit Cooperation) in Mbps. Open access is a model where an operator The JAC is a cooperation of nine European is required by regulation to provide access Telecommunication Operators (including MDF (Main Distribution Frame) access to its network to wholesale customers at KPN) focusing on the social, ethical, and Allows other telecommunication companies capped prices. environmental conditions across their to access the local network, enabling them supply chains. to connect with their customers through our main distribution frame. MHz (Megahertz) P K MHz is one million hertz (a unit of frequency). PUE (power usage effectiveness) MTA/MTR tariff (Mobile Terminating An international standard for the calculation KPN Classmate Access tariff) of energy efficiency of data centers, which Through the KlasseContact project of the The tariff charged by mobile operators compares the total data center electricity KPN Mooiste Contact Fonds, chronically-ill for the termination of incoming telephone consumption with the electricity consumption children can use an ICT-set (a KPN Classmate) traffic (originating from either a fixed of equipment used for customer purposes. to take a ‘virtual seat’ in the classroom. or a mobile network) on their network. PSTN (Public Switched Telephone Network) KPN Mooiste Contact Fonds Multi-play Traditional telephone system that runs This KPN foundation supports societal Propositions combining more than one through copper cables (voice up to 64 initiatives aimed a stimulating social contact, product and / or type of service is considered Kbps, data up to 56 Kbps). by combining people and technological a mutli-play proposition. Triple-play and resources to the best advantage. quad-play propositions are types of multi-play propositions. MVNO (Mobile Virtual Network Operator) R L A mobile operator that does not have its own spectrum or its own network infrastructure. RepTrak Instead, MVNOs have business arrangements RepTrak, developed by the Reputation LTE (Long-Term Evolution) with ‘traditional’ mobile operators to buy Institute, is a method to calculate a LTE, commonly marketed as 4G LTE, is a minutes of use to sell to their own customers. reputation score of companies. standard for wireless communication of high-speed data for mobile phones and RGU (Revenue Generating Unit) data terminals. N RGU is the total of all subscribers receiving standard cable, broadband internet or KPN Mooiste Contact Fonds telephony services over KPN’s network at a This KPN foundation supports societal given date. Thus, one subscriber who receives initiatives aimed a stimulating social contact, Net line gain/loss a bundle of KPN’s services (telephony, internet by combining people and technological Net line gain/loss figures are defined as the and TV) would be counted as three RGUs. resources to the best advantage. difference from one period to the other period in PSTN/ISDN lines plus consumer Roaming VoIP plus ADSL only and plus Fiber. Transfer of mobile traffic from one network M Net adds to another, referring to the exchange of international mobile traffic. Net adds is defined as the difference between the total number of contracts for Machine to Machine (M2M) a specific type of service from one period M2M refers to technologies that allow both wireless and wired systems to communicate compare to the previous period. S between devices of the same ability. NPS (Net Promoter Score) NPS is a tool for measuring customer SAC/SRC Market share satisfaction. The key question asked is Subscriber acquisition/retention costs is Market share is the percentage or proportion whether customers would recommend the amount that is spent to acquire or of the total available market that is being KPN to friends or family. retain subscribers. serviced by KPN. These figures are based on externally available market data, which may NWLW (New Way of Living & Working) Scope 1 not be completely accurate. These figures are The New Way of Living & Working Direct greenhouse gas emissions occurring based on externally available market data, means being able to work without from sources that are owned or controlled which may not be completely accurate, and the constraints of time and place with by an organization. may partially be based on estimates. the use of modern technology. 198 KPN — Integrated Annual Report 2014 Scope 2 Subscriber VoIP (Voice over IP) Indirect greenhouse gas emissions A subscriber is defined as an end-user Voice traffic is transported over an IP-based from the generation of purchased with a connection to the mobile or fixed data network. It enables new ways of electricity, heating or cooling consumed networks and/or service platforms of KPN. communicating, such as combinations of by an organization. The subscriber is included in the subscriber telephony, messaging and videoconferencing. base if there is a direct or indirect (business, Scope 3 wholesale) billing relation, either prepaid VoLTE (Voice over LTE) Other direct greenhouse gas emissions as a or postpaid, with the following exceptions: VoLTE allows the voice service to be delivered consequence of the activities of the company, ýý if the connection is owned through as data flows within the LTE data bearer. but occurring from sources not owned or wholesale by full MVNOs or fixed line controlled by an organization. access parties or VPN (Virtual Private Network) ýý if the connection has been inactive for a A virtual network constructed from Service revenues specific time period (prepaid or postpaid logic connections that are separated Service revenues are defined as the aggregate without contract). from other users. of connection fees, monthly subscription fees and traffic fees. The term service revenues refers to wireless service revenues. T W SIM card (Subscriber Identity Module card) A chip card inserted into a mobile phone, which contains information such as telephone Triple-play WhatsApp numbers and memory for storing a directory. Term used to describe the provision of WhatsApp Messenger is a cross-platform telephony, internet and television services instant messaging application for Smartphone to a household by a single provider. smartphones with internet access. A smartphone is a mobile phone built on a mobile computing platform and features Wholesale broadband access high-resolution (touch) screens, web Wholesale broadband access is the rental by browsers that can access and properly display U broadband internet service providers of standard web pages and that has high-speed access to KPN’s networks to supply broadband data access via Wi-Fi and mobile broadband. internet access to their end customers. The UMTS (Universal Mobile broadband internet service provider charges SOC (Security Operations Center) Telecommunications System) its end customer for the combined wholesale The SOC monitors the high-risk systems of Third generation mobile communications broadband access it purchases from KPN KPN in order to quickly act in case of security systems. UMTS is suited to deliver voice, along with its service fees. risks or incidents. text, music and animated images. Data can be sent via UMTS at approximately six Wi-Fi SoHo/SME times the speed of ISDN. Wi-Fi is a technology that allows an SoHo refers to Small Office/Home Office electronic device to exchange data companies. SME refers to Small and wirelessly over a computer network, Medium Enterprises. including broadband internet connections. V Wi-Fi is a trademark of the Wi-Fi Alliance. Spectrum Auction A spectrum auction is a process whereby WWF Climate Saver a government uses an auction system VBDO (Vereniging van Beleggers voor The Climate Savers program is WWF’s to sell rights (licenses) to transmit Duurzame Ontwikkeling) global platform to engage business and signals over specific brands of the The Dutch Association of Investors for industry in climate and energy. Member electromagnetic spectrum and to Sustainable Development (VBDO) works to companies commit to becoming best in assign scarce spectrum resources. create a sustainable capital market, a market class in reducing GHG emissions and to that considers not only financial criteria but influencing market or policy developments SROI (Social Return on Investment) also non-financial, social and environmental by promoting their vision and solutions. Social Return on Investment is a method criteria. VBDO’s vision is to increase for measuring non-financial value (e.g. sustainability awareness among companies environmental and social value not currently and investors. reflected in conventional financial accounts) relative to resources invested. In the VDSL (Very-high-bitrate Digital Netherlands, governments include Social Subscriber Line) Return requirements in tenders. These A new DSL technology providing faster data requirements aim to employ people with transmission over a single flat untwisted or a distance to the labor market. twisted pair of copper wires. These fast speeds mean that VDSL is capable of Stakeholder supporting high bandwidth applications Stakeholders are the people or organizations such as HDTV, as well as telephony services with an interest in the company, such as (Voice over IP) and general internet access, employees, shareholders, suppliers, over a single connection. VDSL-CO refers to customers, governments and media. VDSL from the Central Office. KPN — Integrated Annual Report 2014 199 COLOPHON For additional Information please contact Forward-looking statements and management estimates KPN Investor Relations Certain of the statements we have made in this Integrated Annual Tel: +31 (0) 704460986 Report are ‘forward-looking statements’. These statements are Fax: +31 (0) 704460593 based on our beliefs and assumptions and on information www.kpn.com/ir currently available to us. They include information concerning our ir@kpn.com possible or assumed future results of operations, business strategies, financing plans, competitive position, potential growth Published by opportunities, potential operating performance or expense Koninklijke KPN N.V. improvements and the effects of future legislation or regulation. P.O. Box 30000 2500 GA The Hague Forward-looking statements include all statements that are not The Netherlands historical facts and can be identified by the use of forward-looking terminology such as the words ‘believe’, ‘expect’, ‘plan’, ‘intend’, Chamber of Commerce The Hague, ‘anticipate’, ‘estimate’, ‘predict’, ‘potential’, ‘continue’, ‘may’, ‘will’, registration number 02045200 ‘should’, ‘could’, ‘shall’, or the negative of these terms or similar expressions. Content and organization Koninklijke KPN N.V. Forward-looking statements involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions. Actual results may differ materially from those Helder! tekstwerk expressed in these forward-looking statements. No undue reliance www.helder-tekstwerk.nl should be put on any forward-looking statements. Unless required by applicable law or applicable rules of the stock exchange on MediaPartners Group which our securities are listed, we have neither the intention nor www.mediapartners.nl an obligation to update forward-looking statements after distribution of this Annual Report. Royal HaskoningDHV www.royalhaskoningdhv.com All market share information in this financial report is based on management estimates based on externally available information, RRED Communications unless indicated otherwise. www.rred.nl The terms ‘we’, ‘our’ and ‘us’ are used to describe the company; Stampa Communications where they are used in the chapter ‘Segment performance’, they www.stampacommunications.com refer to the business concerned. Design and Production Addison Group www.addison-group.net We always aim to further improve our CSR activities and reporting. Therefore, we highly appreciate your feedback, Print questions and comments on our Integrated Report and CSR Veenman+ activities. Please contact mvo@kpn.com. Print Coordination PostNL Photography ANP/ Evert-Jan Daniels Lukkien Michel Porro Sjaak Ramakers Paper Maxi offset Maxi offset is produced by an ISO 14001 accredited manufacturer as an FSC mixed sources product. It is produced with fiber sourced from controlled wood. Koninklijke KPN N.V. Maanplein 55 2516 CK Den Haag Nederland Postbus 30000 2500 GA Den Haag Nederland T: +31 (0)70 343 43 43 www.kpn.com
