PIONEER LOGISTICS CORPORATION 鹏 远 新 和 国 际 物 流 有 限 公 司 在新的一年里，鹏远新和将以行动继续支持联合国全球契约关于人权、劳工、环境及反腐败方面的十项原则 Pioneer Logistics continues to support the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption 鹏远新和国际物流有限公司 进展情况通报 Pioneer Logistics Communication on Progress 1 Communication on Progress 报告内容说明 Report Content 报告说明 REPORT INSTRUCTION 报告了鹏远新和国际物流有限公司在人权、劳工、环境、反腐败 等方面的可持续发展责任。 报告范围 Report Range This report covers topics concerning the sustainable responsibility of 本报告以鹏远新和国际物流有限公司为主体部分，涵盖总 Pioneer Logistics on human rights, labor, environment and anticorruption. 公司及子公司。 报告时间范围：2014 年 1 月 1 日至 2014 年 12 月 31 日。 报告指代说明 Report Reference This report covers the practice of sustainable development of 文中出现的“鹏远新和”、“鹏远物流”、“公司 ”以及“我们” Pioneer Logistics (including the headquarters and all branches) from January 1, 2014 to December 31, 2014. 均代表鹏远新和国际物流有限公司。 “PL”, “the company“, “us” or “we” all refer to Pioneer Logistics. 报告编制原则 Report Formation 报告发布形式 Report Issuance 本报告参照全球报告倡议组织《可持续发展报告指南 4.0》、 联合国全球契约十项原则及联合国全球契约年度进展报告 报告语言为中文和英文两种，在对两种文本理解上发生歧义时， 实践指南等标准要求编写。 请以中文文本为准。 This report is formed in accordance with GRI 4.0, The UN Global This report is issued in two versions, Chinese and English. In the event Compact's ten principles, and COP formation guidance. of any dispute or misunderstanding as to the interpretation of the language or terms, the Chinese version shall take control. 我们将提高客户服务质量当作企业发展的目的与动力，并为了给客 户提供更优质的物流服务而不断改进。 Service quality improvement is our development goal and power, and we will consistently improve to provide better logistics service. 2 Communication on Progress We aspire to create a harmonious and cohesive business culture for all 总经理致词 employees. As a company we advocate and value credibility, honesty and integrity among all of our staff and abide by modern business ethics and GM’S STATEMENT codes of conduct. As a corporate company we aim to create a harmonized, mutually advantageous, safe and stable environment for quality business 2014 年是国家改革思路取得重大突破 development. We are concerned with: building a good corporate culture, 的关键一年，也是鹏远新和“二次跨 focusing on talent strategy, executing international talent projects, and building an equal and harmonized labor relationship. Our focuses allow us 越”的开局之年。一年来，我们积极 to provide multiple paths for career promotion and form a mutual interest 履行经济、环境和社会责任，在响应 policy between the company and its employees. 国家发展要求的同时，公司的可持续 发展能力不断增强。 确保安全生产 Ensure Safety in Production 2014 has been a crucial year for China, as 2014 年，我们以不断提高本质安全水平为目标，着力推进安全生产信 the government has set new goals intended to assist in the sustainable 息化建设，加强隐患排查治理和设备设施完整性管理，有效避免了重 development of the country’s economy. In response to the National Development reform Pioneer Logistics have actively worked to fulfill the 大安全生产事故，安全生产形势总体平稳。 requirements of our economic, environmental and social responsibilities. This year we have improved upon the essential safety levels throughout the Owing to our initiative and innovation, we as a corporate company have met entire company owing to efforts to promote the construction of production all of our goals, just one year preceding the implementation of the safety in our business, allowing us to effectively avoid serious incidents the guidelines thus strengthening our ability to conduct business efficiently, and workplace. We have increased security and carry out regular maintenance the continuation of sustainable development practice. for production investigation and management of facilities as well as equipment and integrity management. 切实关爱员工 Respect for Staff 2014 年，我们认真履行对员工的责任，继续为员工发展创造良好环 推进环境保护 Environmental Protection 境；进一步完善用工制度，切实改善员工生产生活条件，认真做到 2014 年，我们持续推进生态文明建设，努力构建“资源节约型、环境 “以人为本”；加大员工培训力度，努力构建分层次、分类别、多渠 友好型”企业；加大节能减排基础管理和技术改造力度，切实把节能 道、大规模、全覆盖的培训工作格局，不断提升员工素质和能力；加 减排工作落到实处，主要污染物排放量呈下降趋势；积极推动清洁能 强和谐库区建设，大力帮扶困难员工，丰富员工业余文化生活，为员 源的利用，加大新能源运输设备的引进和推广力度。 公司内部提倡绿 工营造健康、舒适的生活环境。 色出行，继续严格执行购买公务用车排量不得超过 2.4 升（含）的规 3 Communication on Progress 定，并实施出差审批制度，提倡公司、部门之间用网络沟通，尽可能 召开电视、电话会议，减少交通工具废气排放和能源消耗。 ” In 2014 we have been advocates for the construction of an environmentally friendly society, building a ‘resource saving, environmentally friendly” enterprise. We have reduced both general energy consumption and carbon emissions; actively promoting the use of clean energy by introducing new energy transport equipment and implementing strict guidelines for official road vehicles, and conducting examinations on business practices in order to reduce emissions throughout the entire company. 可持续发展没有止境，履行社会责任没有终点。在新的一年里，鹏远 新和将继续支持联合国全球契约关于人权、劳工、环境及反腐败方面 的十项原则，并履行好自身肩负的责任和义务，实现经济、社会、环 境的协调发展，成为更负责任的优秀“企业公民”。 Pioneer Logistics pledges to fulfill their social responsibility in the coming year and continues to support the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labor, Environment and Anti-Corruption. We constantly developing new practices in order to promote sustainable development, whilst meeting the requirements of our economic environmental and social responsibilities, 4 Communication on Progress 公司网络 Company Network ................................................................... 8 目录 TABLE OF CONTENT 服务客户 Customers ................................................................................ 9 报告说明 REPORT INSTRUCTION ..............................................................1 战略与管理 STRATEGIES AND ADMINISTRATION..................................... 9 报告范围 Report Range ........................................................................... 1 企业愿景 Vision ...................................................................................... 9 报告编制原则 Report Formation ............................................................ 1 可持续发展责任 Sustainable Development Responsibility................... 10 报告内容说明 Report Content ................................................................ 1 责任管理 Responsibility Management .............................................. 10 报告指代说明 Report Reference............................................................. 1 经济责任 Economic Responsibility .................................................... 10 报告发布形式 Report Issuance ............................................................... 1 环境责任 Environmental Responsibility ............................................ 10 总经理致词 GM’S STATEMENT .................................................................2 社会责任 Social Responsibility .......................................................... 10 切实关爱员工 Respect for Staff .............................................................. 2 管理团队 Management Team ............................................................... 11 确保安全生产 Ensure Safety in Production ............................................ 2 利益相关方 Parties of Interest .............................................................. 12 推进环境保护 Environmental Protection ............................................... 2 社会参与 Community Involvement ....................................................... 14 目录 TABLE OF CONTENT ..........................................................................4 人权篇 HUMAN RIGHTS ......................................................................... 14 公司概况 COMPANY PROFILE ...................................................................6 人性化管理 Humanitarian Management .............................................. 14 资质 Qualification .................................................................................... 6 发展权 Company Development ............................................................. 15 业务领域 Business Profile ....................................................................... 7 平等、安全、健康 Equality, Safety and Health .................................... 15 国内综合物流业务 Integrated Logistics Business .............................. 7 平衡工作和生活 Work-Life Balance ...................................................... 16 国际货运代理业务 International Freight Forwarding Business ......... 7 劳工篇 LABOR ........................................................................................ 16 包机租船业务 Air and Ocean Charters ............................................... 7 职业健康与安全 Labor and EHS ............................................................ 16 航空售票业务 Flight Ticket Business .................................................. 8 5 Communication on Progress 多元化与机会平等 Diversification and Opportunity Equality .............. 17 供应商资质评估 Supplier Quality Assessment ..................................... 18 环境篇 ENVIRONMENT ........................................................................... 19 内部环境 Internal Environment ............................................................ 19 ——健康环保 Environmental Friendly .................................................. 19 饮水系统 Drinking-Water System ..................................................... 19 摆放绿植 Green Plants ...................................................................... 19 外部环境 External Environment ............................................................ 20 ——低碳经济 Low-Carbon Economy .................................................... 20 提高能效 Enhance Energy efficiency ................................................ 20 技术推广 Technology Promotion ...................................................... 21 反腐败篇 ANTI-CORRUPTION ................................................................. 23 与所有供应商签订反商业贿赂条款 External Mechanism .................. 23 内部廉洁自律制度设立 Internal Self-Discipline ................................... 23 展望 OUTLOOK ....................................................................................... 24 6 Communication on Progress 鹏远新和有以下主要会员资质： 公司概况 COMPANY PROFILE  联合国全球契约成员 鹏远新和国际物流有限公司（以下简称鹏远新和）成立于 1993 年。结  中国国际运输代理协会 合各领域对物流需求的研究和实际操作经验，鹏远新和摸索出了一套  中国报关协会 完备有效的物流操作体系， 为不同需求客户量身定做的物流操作体系，  国际航空运输协会 并且在实际运作中快速调整，最大限度地满足客户高质低耗的物流需  中国航空运输协会 求。人才专业化、管理系统化、服务规范化、物流网络化，使鹏远新  中国货代联盟 和倍受国内外客户的信赖，并且多次获得各合作航空公司及物流业界  中国物流与采购联合会汽车物流分会 的奖项和好评，在中国物流行业享有较高声誉。 Pioneer Logistics is an international forwarding company approved by the Pioneer Logistics (PL) was founded in 1993 and is the state-owned Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Cooperation (MFTEC), and an air enterprise under the management of Civil Aviation Administration of China transportation sales agent, one of the first agents with Class-A passenger (CAAC). Based on its rich experiences with a large variety of industries, CPL and cargo sales certificate by CAAC. PL has grown into a leading provider in could tailor-make viable and effective logistics management for every kind the domestic logistics industry. Its truck fleet equipped with GPS, of customers and may most closely meet their logistic needs. Specialized warehouses, distribution centers and state-of –the –art IT system, that employees, systemized management, standardized service and wellenhance productivity and ensure we continue to be a leading company. networked logistics enable CPL to be a reliable partner and have helped CPL Furthermore, we keep close partnership with railway operations, which are receive a good reputation from customers in and outside China! advantageous additions to our business category. 资质 Qualification Pioneer Logistics obtained membership in the following organizations:  United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) 鹏远新和是由商务部批准的国际货物运输代理企业，也是首批经中国  CIFA China International Freight Forwarders Association (CIFA)  Beijing Customs Brokers Association (BCB) 民用航空总局和民航华北管理局批准的兼有航空运输一类客、货和二  International Air Transport Association (IATA) 类客、货销售代理业务资质的航空运输销售代理人。国内综合物流方  China Air Transport Association (CATA) 面，鹏远新和具备道路运输资质，公司拥有自己的运输车队，长期与  China Automobile Logistics Association of CFLP (CALA) 铁路运输部门保持了紧密的合作关系。公司拥有完善的第三方物流和 仓储管理信息系统、GPS 定位跟踪系统，并针对中国物流企业的实际 运作特点不断开发、更新。 7 Communication on Progress 域性及城市配送业务、仓储管理及供应商库存管理业务、展览运输业 业务领域 Business Profile 务、供应链综合管理和咨询业务等。 公司主营业务有国内综合物流、国际货运代理及其它航空咨询、国际 Pioneer Logistics has a strong capacity in the land transportation market in 包机与旅游服务等。 China. We can provide door-to-door time-efficient transportation, regional and urban distribution, warehousing management and vendor managed The business profile of Pioneer Logistics covers comprehensive logistics, inventory. Our extensive operation services include transportation business, international freight forwarding and other related services. supply chain management and consulting based on our well-developed transportation networks. 国内综合物流业务 Integrated Logistics Business 鹏远新和在全国的陆运市场拥有强大的实力，凭借完善的运输网络和 国 际 货 运 代 理 业 务 International Freight Forwarding 多年的操作经验可为客户提供全国范围内的门到门限时运输服务、区 Business 鹏远新和凭借强大的国际网络支持和对中国航空货运市场的精通以及 国内专业的操作能力，在国际进出口运输行业、报关清关领域以及海 陆空多种方式联运领域赢得了良好的口碑和美誉，并维持了较高的客 户满意度和广阔的客户群。 Depending on the support of powerful international networks, the profound understanding of airfreight market in China and the its professional operation capacity, PL has earned an excellent reputation and customer loyalty in the industry of international and domestic import & export transportation as well as in the fields of custom clearance and multimodal transportation. As a professional logistics company subordinate to CAAC, PL posses’ unique advantages in developing chartered business in the international and domestic market. 包机租船业务 Air and Ocean Charters 鹏远新和多次承接国家重要的政治性客包机项目的运输服务，目的地 远至非洲和中东，并且具有丰富的商业性包机运作经验，与多家国内 外航空公司建立了良好的关系，可在最短的时间内根据客户需求拟定 最安全经济的包机航班计划，并可提供点对点客包机业务。作为中国 8 Communication on Progress 民航下属的专业物流公司，鹏远新和在国际、国内市场上发展包机租 公司网络 Company Network 船业务具有得天独厚的优势。 Pioneer Logistics has taken several tasks of important governmental 鹏远新和总部设在北京。目前国内在天津、广州、上海、沈阳、长春、 passenger charters, with the destination ranging to Africa and the Middle 秦皇岛、大连、深圳、武汉、合肥、厦门、珠海、成都等地设立了 25 East; we have sufficient commercial charters operation experience. We 个分公司、 36 个操作中心和 198 个操作点，服务网络遍布全国 60 多 maintain a good relationship with many airlines, which we could design an economical and provide safe air charter solutions for the customers, 个城市，依靠专业、健全的操作网络为客户提供安全、快捷、高效的 including door to door air charter. 物流服务。在海外已形成了以欧洲、中东、北美、南美、澳洲、日本 航空售票业务 Flight Ticket Business 及东南亚为重点的国际业务网络。 鹏远新和是经民航总局和民航华北地区管理局批准的一类航空客票代 Pioneer Logistics is based in Beijing, owning 25 branches, 36 operation centers and 198 operation stations around China, our services networks 理，是民航总局（CAAC）指定的航空票务代理机构，是国际航空运输 spread all over 60 cities throughout the country. Relying on sophisticated 协会（IATA）和航空运输销售代理人协会注册会员，是专门从事国际、 operation network, PL provides safe, rapid and high effective logistics service for customers. And in terms of its global network, PL is leading the 国内机票代理销售业务及旅行、酒店预订及相关经济信息咨询服务的 way in lines to Europe, The Middle-East, North America, South America, 专业服务公司，在北京拥有正式销售代理机构。 Oceania, Japan and South East of Asia. Pioneer Logistics is the class-A ticket agency approved by CAAC, the appointed air ticket agency by CAAC and the member of IATA and Aviation Transportation Sales Agency Association. We specialized in international and domestic tickets sales agencies business, hotel reservation and economy information consulting services. We also own our formal sales agencies institution in Beijing. 除了公司的主营业务，我司还可提供包装服务、电气工程与安装服务， 以及供应链综合管理咨询、展览策划与运输、酒店票务服务等。 In addition to the company’s primary logistics services, we provide services such as transportation and accommodation bookings, packaging services as well as electrical engineering and installation services. 9 Communication on Progress 战略与管理 STRATEGIES AND ADMINISTRATION 鹏远新和在为中国物流业贡献力量的同时，将履行社会责任、坚持可 持续发展等问题纳入到企业的新型发展战略之中。在鹏远新和现阶段 的发展中，坚持既要追求经济效益，又要追求社会效益，注重环境保 护的战略方针。 Pioneer Logistics contributes his strengths to China’s logistics industry, and will add social responsibility and sustainable development to the new improved development strategy of the enterprise. In the current stage of development, it is not only necessary to insist on the pursuit of economic interest, but also the pursuit of social benefits, focusing on the strategy of 服务客户 Customers environmental protection. 我们致力于与全球各大企业间的交流和合作，主要客户分布在电力、 企业愿景 Vision 汽配、化工、电子、药品、食品、会展等领域，包括 Schneider、ABB、 鹏远新和传承企业文化，助力国内经济发展方式的转型和升级，改善 Siemens、同仁堂、 SK、 Hyundai、 Toyota、 KFC 等。正是结合了 人们的运输、运营和生活方式。通过提升物流服务的专业性，帮助人 对各行各业物流需求的研究和实际操作经验，鹏远新和摸索出了完备 们享受更高更快更强的新时代节奏；通过实现本地物流技术创新，激 有效的为不同需求客户量身定做的物流操作体系，并且在实际运作中 发本土物流产业的持续活力，并为公司带来新的增长机遇。 快速调整，最大化地满足客户高质低耗的物流需求。 We hope to pass on the enterprise culture and promote the transition and We are dedicated to the communication and cooperation with global improvement of the development ways of the domestic economy and to companies. We provide service to companies in the fields of electronics, improve the transportation, operation and lifestyle of people. We also hope electrics, power, petroleum, automobile, chemistry, food, exhibitions etc. to provide people with many advantages in the new century by promoting The VIPs are Schneider, ABB, Siemens, Tongrentang, SK, Hyundai, Toyota, the professionalism of logistics services; the innovation of logistics and KFC etc. We have received great customer feedback and have a strong technology and to stimulate the continuous vitality of the local logistics reputation in the industry owing to our years of standardized and customerindustry to result in new opportunities for the enterprise. tailored service. 10 Communication on Progress 可持续发展责任 Sustainable Development 经济责任 Economic Responsibility 实现营业额的稳步增长，将净利润、纳税额作为企业经济责任的重要 Responsibility 测量维度，通过知识创新和人才优势，发展核心业务，助力行业发展， 推动经济，实现固有资产保值增值。 To achieve turnover robust growth and make the total net profit and tax a 经济责任 Economic Responsibility priority when calculating dimensions of enterprise economic responsibility. It is to recognize the value of fixed assets, innovation, HR advantages, 责任管理 developing core business, to make sense of industry development and promote the growth of the national economy. Responsibility Management 环境责任 Environmental Responsibility 环境责任 社会责任 Environmemntal Social 关注用水量、用电量、耗油量等关键指标，规范节能减排的标准和管 Responsibility Responsibility 理，加大监督力度，做好废旧包装、产品、污水、饮食垃圾等废弃物 分类管理及处理与再利用工作。 In relation to water consumption, electricity use, fuel consumption per 责任管理 Responsibility Management kilometer etc., as key targets of our environmental responsibility goals. To standardize the energy conservation and emissions reduction, strengthen 积极参与联合国全球契约活动，自觉履行“十项原则”，定期发布可 the supervision, manage well of the packaging of the waste, such as sewage 持续发展报告，主动接受利益相关方监督；加强普法宣传，组织反腐 waste classification management and processing and recycling work. 培 训 ， 深 化 能 源 监 察 ， 培 育 守 法 合 规 的 经 营 理 念 。 社会责任 Social Responsibility We actively participate in the activities of the UN Global Compact, consciously fulfilling “the ten principles”, publish Sustainable Development 促进就业，保障人权、关注女员工、残疾人以及农民工的权利，提供 Report on a regular basis, forwardly accept the 平等沟通的工作环境，实现利益相关者间的相互协作，共建和谐；遵 supervision from the parties of interest; enhance the law and legal publicity, organization of anti-corruption training, deepen energy monitor, nurture 守商业伦理，反对商业贿赂，创造公平竞争的市场环境。 the business philosophy of the law-abiding compliance. We promote stable employment, protect human rights, and are aware of the rights of female employees, disabled persons and migrant workers. We provide equal communication environment to promote collaboration, harmony and learning among community and parties of interest. We comply 11 Communication on Progress with business ethics, fight against commercial bribery in order to create a 组织架构图 Organization Structure fair competitive market environment. 管理团队 Management Team 鹏远新和建立跨职能团队，依靠高水平的责任治理，对整个公司的企 业社会责任事务进行高效管理。企业社会责任管理委员会组成人员为 总经理及各下属部门的最高领导层，负责监管公司整体的企业社会责 任和可持续发展工作，将企业社会责任的理念渗透到各部门相关战略、 执行、管理等工作中，传达至每个员工，鼓励员工积极参与社会责任 事项，促进责任理念与每个员工的日常工作相结合，将社会责任管理 工作真正落到实处。 Pioneer Logistics establishes the cross-functional team, relying on a high level of responsibility management, to manage the company's corporate social responsibility affairs efficiently. The members of corporate social responsibility management committee are general manager and the subordinate departments for the highest leadership, they are responsible for the supervision of the company as a whole enterprise social responsibility and sustainable development, and to penetrate the concept of corporate social responsibility to the departments related strategy, implementation and management. Communicating to each employee and encouraging staff to actively participate in social responsibility issues and promote the understanding of responsibilities of each employee's daily work, combined with the social responsibility management exemptions. 12 Communication on Progress 行业  行业发展 推进行业自律 利益相关方 Parties of Interest   与合作伙伴共赢  培养行业人才 我们根据利益相关方对企业可持续发展的影响程度和风险大小进行识  积极参与国内外同业交 流 别和选择，并且注意与多元化的利益相关方建立常态的沟通机制，倾 客户  保持诚信  加强客户关系管理 听他们的需求，学习他们的长处，认真对待他们的反馈，以责任未双  优质的产品和服务  及时更新产品信息 方带来巨大的价值。  高效的响应速度  提高客户满意度 We identify and select the parties of interest according to the enterprise  秉承共赢的合作态度 sustainable development and the influence degree of the magnitude of risk, and pay attention to the interests of the diversification and establish related 商业伙伴  优势互补  业务交流 normal communication mechanism, and listen to their needs, learn their  信息共享  定期走访 strengths, treat their feedback, and bring great value for both parties by the  实现互利互赢  建立长期合作关系 responsibility. 公众  提高物流服务  参加公益活动 利益相关方列表 List of Parties of Interest  为公众谋求利益  搭建公众平台  支持社会公益事业  增添多样化公众沟通渠 利益相关 期望与要求 沟通形式及表现 道 方  定期组织“公众参观 政府  诚信守法  响应国家政策 日”活动  商业道德  依法合规 非政府组  支持机构发展  积极参加有关会议及活  依法纳税  诚信经营 织  履行组织章程 动 员工  保障员工合法权益  员工关怀与改善薪酬激  支持机构能力建设  公平合理的薪酬福利 励  开展志愿服务  完善的职业发展渠道  增强员工参与管理度 环境  节约能源  节能经营  安全健康的工作环境  建立全方位培训体系  提倡绿色出行、办公  广泛使用电子流程，深  打造良好企业文化  支持环保公益事业 化无纸办公  建立通畅、透明的内部  关注生态保护 沟通渠道  实现环境友好 13 Communication on Progress Parties of Interest Expectations and Communication and Publics  Improve logistic  Involve in public Requirements Performance services welfare undertakings Government  Integrity and  Responsive to  Develop public  Establish public abidance by law government policies interest and benefits platforms  Business ethics  Regulatory  Support public  Multiple public  Appropriate tax compliance welfare undertakings communication payment  Integrity channels management  Organize ‘public visit Employees  Protect the rights  Staff care and welfare day’ on regular basis and interests of improvement NGO  Institutional  Active participation in employees  Establish a full range development meetings and  Better employment of training programs  Fulfil the obligations activities opportunity and fair  Develop better  Support for salary and welfare corporate culture institutional system  Enhance employee development  Career development participation in the  Carry out volunteer channels degree of service  Safe and healthy management Environment  Promote green travel  Energy saving working  Establishment of and low-carbon life operation environment transparent internal  Support  Extended use of communication environmental electronic process, channel welfare work towards Customer  Trust-worthy  Strengthen customer  Ecological protection paperless office  High quality product relation management and service  Up to date product  Quick response time information  Improve customer satisfaction Business Partner  Complementary  Business advantages communication  Shared information  Regular visits  Achieve mutual  Build long term benefit cooperation relationship 14 Communication on Progress We Pioneer Logistics pledge to support and uphold the values of “UN Global 社会参与 Community Involvement Compact-Principles of Human Rights”. As a corporate company we are committed to ensuring that all employees at Pioneer Logistics, both 组织名称 Organization 协会任职 Position understand and agree to comply with this bill of rights when conducting business internally and externally. We, as an organization, continually 联合国全球契约 成员单位 endeavor to improve our contributions to our Corporate Social The United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) Member Responsibility and strive to reach above and beyond our expected 中国国际运输代理协会 会员单位 responsibilities, enabling us to protect and defend every employee’s human The China International Freight Forwarders Member rights and guarantee a safe, respectful working environment for all. Association (CIFA) 中国报关协会 会员单位 人性化管理 Humanitarian Management The China Customs Brokers Association (CCBA) Member 国际航空运输协会 会员单位 鹏远新和自发展之初就提倡“以人为本”和 “人性化管理”，人权意 (The International Air Transport Association Member 识在鹏远新和有较为有深厚的思想文化基础。鹏远新和管理层和基层 (IATA) 从不松懈对人权问题的关注，让自身的利益相关方参与到企业的人权 中国航空运输协会 会员单位 管理当中，及时发现潜在的人权风险，积极应对初露端倪的人权问题， The China Air Transport Association (CATA) Member 通过广泛监督和广开言路的互动，推动公司管理更加人性化。 中国货代联盟 会员单位 China Cargo Alliance (CCA) Member 为改善员工的工作环境和住宿环境，鹏远新和在 2014 年分别对办公区 中国物流与采购联合会汽车物流分会 会员单位 以及宿舍进行了改造和调整。为给员工提供更加舒适的办公场所和提 China Automobile Logistics Association of CFLP Member 供更为便利的办公条件，新增办公设施、电子设备 N 套；为方便员工 生活和减少上班路上所用时间，鹏远新和将员工宿舍安排在距离办公 地点路程较近、交通便捷的小区，并根据员工需求及时配置新的床铺 和洗衣机。 人权篇 HUMAN RIGHTS Since our companies’ inception, Pioneer Logistics have recurrently been a 鹏远新和支持与尊重《联合国工商企业 strong advocate of ‘people-orientated’ and ‘humanistic’ styles of 与人权原则》，遵从相关的人权条例，并了解国际企业社会责任和框 management. By incorporating the stakeholders themselves into the human rights of enterprise management, we were able to clearly identify potential 架的人权部分，深知作为一个组织对尊重和保护人权所应该承担的责 issues and risks to employees and form appropriate procedures and 任和为此应做的努力。 strategies to avoid discrimination or complications within the workplace. 15 Communication on Progress We encourage employees to voice their opinions and present any issues or each individual employee. Our management team places emphases on queries they may have in relation to how the business adheres to human improving cooperation within the team to sustain a participative rights and company policy. management style. Our company’s primary goal is to provide a Win-Win situation for both the business and each individual employee. These honorable ideologies (people-orientated and humanistic) are built To adequately equip individuals, PL provides extensive pre-employment into the foundations and culture of our company. We have laid strong focus training as well as on-the-job training to staff to assist occupational on respect and fairness in the workplace as well as upholding human rights, development, thinking and planning of individuals, promoting mature when developing our business and management style. growth and providing employees with the tools to improve their own At Pioneer Logistics we aim to empower and motivate employees in every professionalism whilst working for Pioneer Logistics. way possible. In 2014 renovations and adjustments were conducted in our office spaces and staff living quarters so as to improve their daily working environment and quality of living. This includes providing appropriate living 平等、安全、健康 Equality, Safety and arrangements that are positioned conveniently close to the office; reducing Health travel time to and from work, as well as providing cleaning services and holding responsibility for the upkeep or necessary replacement of any 鹏远新和着力营造一个平等、公正的企业氛围，通过充分保障言论自 broken facilities. Investment in new facilities, furniture and equipment has 由和广开言路，鼓励员工为企业发展献计献策，积极组织各岗位员工 provided comfortable modern office spaces and suitable residential living in order to motivate employees and improve productivity whilst working for 共同探讨和解决企业发展和实际运作中面临的问题，形成了上下一致、 Pioneer Logistics. 团结奋进的局面。 发展权 Company Development 鹏远新和十分注重员工的安全和健康，除基本医疗保险外，还做出了 以下安排： 鹏远新和管理层一直以来注重听取团队成员的意见和建议，并在发展 中不断完善我们的公司制度，为每位员工提供各种成长与发展机会。  为员工办理了补充医疗保险； 达到企业与个人的双赢是我们一直以来追求的目标。公司注重对员工  为每位在职员工提供年度体检福利，保障员工身体健康状态； 的岗前和在岗培训，为员工的职业发展着想和做规划，使每位员工都  为员工办理健身卡，鼓励员工积极参加体育锻炼，强健体魄； 能在鹏远新和平台上获得自身的发展，成长为更专业、更全面、更成  企业办公场所选在高植被覆盖率行政区域，办公环境良好； 熟的职场人。在孜孜不倦改进我们的产品与服务的同时，让员工与企  组织员工进行 EHS 培训，强化员工防患于未然的意识。 业共同发展和进步，分享企业发展的成果。 As our style of management is largely people-oriented, we at Pioneer By promoting freedom of speech and encouraging all employees to air their Logistics endeavor to provide growth and development opportunities for views, provide suggestions and be involved in the development of the enterprise, we at PL are able to create an equity driven atmosphere within 16 Communication on Progress the business. In keeping with our participative management style, every and team-building sports such as basketball or football are beneficial for employee is actively encouraged to cooperatively discuss and solve any enhancing vital communication and cooperation skills. problems the enterprise may face. We believe that the health and safety of our staff is of utmost importance. Because of this PL not only provides basic medical insurance, but also organize and provide the following:  Supplementary medical insurance for our employees;  Annual medical examination to ensure the health status of each employee;  Apply gym membership for employees to encouraged participation in physical exercise after work, adding to their general well-being;  Company premises located among high plantation coverage areas to enhance good working environment;  Provide Environment Health and Safety (EHS) training to enhance each staff member awareness of health and safety practices; 平衡工作和生活 Work-Life Balance 鹏远新和鼓励和引导员工找到工作和生活的平衡点，消除一切形式的 强迫劳动，为每一位员工提供参与团队建设的机会，使大家在与同事 出游的过程中充分感受生活的美好；定期到体育馆健身和组织各项体 Photograph: Day Trip to Ocean Park – FFW Department 2014 育活动，不仅拉近了同事之间的感情，而且为减轻工作压力，放松心 情提供了良好的解决方案。 Every employee requires a balance between work and home life. To 劳工篇 LABOR alleviate the pressures of work and help individuals to relax, we motivate employees to participate in a range of activities such as team sports and exercise classes in order to promote a healthy balanced lifestyle; as an 职业健康与安全 Labor and EHS additional incentive to be active, gym cards may be supplied to staff and encouraged to organize and participate in team sports. We believe that 鹏远新和在 2014 年通过职业健康安全、质量、环境管理体系认证，并 keeping staff healthy and active leads to a better workplace environment 持续进行这一管理体系的内部审核、自我保证和监督。我们深知建立 17 Communication on Progress 推行 EHS 管理体系的目的就是保护环境，改进我们工作场所的健康性 多元化与机会平等 Diversification and 和安全性，改善劳动条件，维护员工的合法利益。这一举措增强了我 们的企业凝聚力，完善了企业的内部管理，为创造更好的经济效益和 Opportunity Equality 社会效益起到保驾护航的作用。鹏远新和管理层依据自己预定的时间 鹏远新和作为一家大型综合物流企业，员工来自五湖四海，不同民族 间隔对体系进行评审，以确保体系的持续适宜性、充分性和有效性。 和肤色的员工享有平等的工作机会和职业发展机会。鹏远新和尊重各 鹏远新和对于叉车驾驶员和厨师等岗位人员，要求持证上岗，积极制 个民族的生活和文化习惯，并为不同文化背景的员工快速融入公司以 定服务提供流程图，对员工加以消防演习等培训，提高对潜在安全风 及当地文化提供帮助。 险的敏感度，制定设备器材维修计划，对各种办公和运营设备定期检 在为员工成长创造条件方面进行多元化组合，除了必要的培训外，还 查保养，保存记录。 针对具体员工自身特点制定不同的培养方案，通过组织技能大赛等手 Pioneer Logistics adheres to the most recent and up to date Environment 段促进员工职业技能的提升。 Health and Safety guidelines and procedures. All staff members are made Pioneer Logistics is a large-scale logistics enterprise, comprised of business aware of the health and safety guidelines upon induction to the company. professionals from all over China and every corner of the globe. PL All employees responsible for operating heavy machinery, delivering celebrates our diverse and multi-cultural environment, and ensures all shipments etc. are required to provide applicable certificates and employees are able to enjoy equal occupation development opportunities qualifications to the appropriate management team member before regardless of color, nationality, gender or socio-economic status. We commencing work, as well as receive induction trainings includes (although respect the culture and lifestyle of others from different backgrounds and is not limited to) Fire drill training; correct record keeping procedures and create appropriate accommodations for them so as to assist them to quickly equipment maintenance strategy for all of the appropriate office and adapt to life in China and immediately become integrated into our company. operating equipment. We have established and implemented a strict EHS Management System in order to preserve and protect the Environment, Health and Safety of employees and the business. The EHS Management System, aiming to improve the internal management, cohesion and 培训与教育 Training and Education coordination within the enterprise, as well as overall effectiveness and 鹏远新和致力于打造学习型企业，提倡员工结合自身兴趣，不断提高 efficiency has resulted in superior economic and social benefits for the company. 专业水准，发掘自身潜力。通过对员工的岗前培训，让员工迅速适应 并了解岗位职责和公司文化；通过不定期组织在岗员工参与行业培训 以及参加合作伙伴的各种培训会，切实提高员工的专业能力，为员工 积累行业人脉以及资源，助力员工职业梦想的达成。 18 Communication on Progress Pioneer Logistics is committed to creating a learning oriented environment development. If a supplier is involved in unethical activity such as forced for employees to openly discuss and combine their interests, explore their labor, child labor or the authenticity of products supplied is questionable, individual skills and discover their true potential to improve on a we as a company, pledge to cease trading with that supplier and source professional level. Through on-the-job training staff are able to quickly alternate suppliers in order to continue conducting our business in an ethical adapt to the working environment and understand the full responsibilities manner. of the job and corporate culture. Industry training provides the resources to enhance work related skills, effectively improves staff’s professional abilities and stimulate the widening of their business network. Photograph: PL MHE Skills Competition 2014 供应商资质评估 Supplier Quality Assessment 鹏远新和定期对供应商进行回访和资质评估，除了对于服务过程中出 现的各种问题与供应商积极有效沟通外，一旦发现供应商有用童工、 强制劳动或者行动不符合可持续发展理念，鹏远新和即停止与此供应 商合作。 Pioneer Logistics regularly complete quality assessment of suppliers to ensure all partner companies adhere to the concepts of sustainable 19 Communication on Progress 环境篇 ENVIRONMENT 内部环境 Internal Environment ——健康环保 Environmental Friendly 饮水系统 Drinking-Water System 鹏远新和自 2014 年 9 月起，出于对员工健康的关心与保护，已逐步把 以往使用的桶装水饮水机替换为节能型直饮水机，并由行政部门采购 滤芯定期更换。研究表明，经过净化的直饮水不但保持天然水的活性， 而且有效去除了自来水中含有的威胁人体健康的有害物质。 Owing to our care and respect for employees’ health and protection, we have implemented the use of improved energy-saving water-machines that meet industry standards. Research shows that the purifying methods maintain activity of natural water, and remove harmful substances that may be contaminating the water. 摆放绿植 Green Plants 在办公室环境下大量摆放绿植（如绿萝等），提升办公区环境品质：  有效清除室内有毒气体（如一氧化碳和甲醛等）  净化空气  植物具有隔音、除尘、降低室内干燥度等功能  绿化环境使眼睛得到休息，消除眼部疲劳。潜意识中改善员工 心情、排除压力 20 Communication on Progress  调和办公室环境使其更加人性化 外部环境 External Environment ——低碳经济 Low-Carbon Economy 鹏远新和一直以来注重自身活动对环境的影响，不断思考如何改进作 业流程以最大限度减少污染、降低能耗，为建设资源节约型、环境友 好型社会、发展低碳经济贡献一份力量。在过去的一年中，我们主要 针对以下两点进行了优化改进。 Pioneer Logistics has increased awareness of our impact of our actions on the environment. We have improved operations in order to minimize pollution, reduce energy consumption and contribute to busing a resource conserving and environmentally friendly society. Office spaces are filled with indoor-plants to improve the quality of working environment and overall atmosphere. Plants can assist to 提高能效 Enhance Energy efficiency  Effectively remove indoor toxic gasses (carbon monoxide and 鹏远新和创建了能效优化体系，形成一系列低碳设施设备选用标准， formaldehyde) 采购人员在实际工作中本着低耗高效的标准，在源头上完成基础设施  Air purification  Eliminate noise and dust particles whilst regulating humidity 低能耗模式配置，并有专门的设备设施维护人员定期对公司各办公区  Improve employee work efficiency and reduce fatigue 设施设备进行维护保养，及时淘汰不符合标准的设备。  Create a harmonious office environment 作为一家物流企业，鹏远新和深知合理配载对于提高能效具有不可替 代的作用。为此，公司在局部线路上积极向第四方物流角色转变，以 便提高车辆满载率。 除此之外，鹏远新和还通过科学规划、平衡配载需求及货物流转总里 程，借以在不损害运输服务时限的前提下，降低单公斤产品能源需求 量，间接提高能源利用率。 21 Communication on Progress By optimizing the balance amongst load factor, cost and total cargo transportation distance in condition of not sacrificing transportation service level, PL successfully reduced the energy consumption of the total transportation. 技术推广 Technology Promotion 绿色能源技术应用 Application of Green Energy Technology 设施 Facilities 2014年，为优化资源配置，鹏远新和对仓库进行了升级改造。 重新规划后，建筑物更充分利用了自然采光、合理气动、自 然通风等技术，将整体电力需求降低了10%。 鹏远新和致力于降低对传统能源的依赖，积极使用替代 能源，比如通过利用光伏技术进行道路照明、利用光能 技术进行加热，进一步降低碳排放。 In order to improve the effectiveness of our business, we Pioneer Logistics have developed and implemented the “Efficiency Optimization System”. 鹏远新和致力于降低对传统能源的依赖，积极使用替代能源， This System focuses on forming low carbon standards for selection of 比如通过利用光伏技术进行道路照明、利用光能技术进行加 facilities and equipment, procurement of laborers and warehouse staff whilst maintaining high efficiency and low consumption levels. We have 热，进一步降低碳排放。 implemented the regular maintenance on special equipment and facilities, whilst quickly eliminating anything that does not comply with Industry standards. Via creating a series of Energy Efficiency optimize standard on Facility &  By renovating and refurbishing our warehouses with a natural Equipment, we laid a solid foundation on low energy consumption on our lighting system and implementing the use of natural ventilation daily operation. technology, we've lowered the total electrical power demand by more than 10% during 2014. By introducing 4PL management mode, PL improved the vehicle load factor of remote lines without any loss of service level. 22 Communication on Progress  Using alternative energy such as roadway lighting with PV-tech and 搭 建 标 准 化 管 理 体 系 Establish Standardized Management SWH, we've reduced the related energy consumption to ZERO in System 2014.  Office and dining spaced utilize waste gas purification units to 包装物料节约 Package Material Saving reduce the pollution in offices. 2014 年鹏远新和推进实施标准化包装，从而减少因货物包装不规范导 设备 Equipment 致的物料浪费及运力浪费。我们推广使用可循环包装，降低对一次性 在建设绿色环保企业方面，鹏远新和从不吝啬对设备的投入，我们使 包装的依存度，进而降低对环境的直接影响。 用符合国家排气标准的车辆及能源进行运营，大面积推广使用电力驱 In 2014, we have reduced our waste production by introducing new 动室内搬运设备，使用新能源交通工具完成最后一公里运输。 standards of packaging that effectively reduced the waste of both material and capacity. We aim to use recyclable packaging in an effort to reduce All vehicles and gasoline used by Pioneer Logistics is regularly examined to dependence on disposable packaging and lessen the impact on the ensure continual adherence to the national standard. Electric powered environment. equipment and facilities are widely used in our warehouse; the use of equipment that emits harmful pollutants is discouraged and reduced 设施设备 Facilities and Equipment wherever possible. 鹏远新和综合考虑设施设备在污水处理、废气处理和防尘降噪方面的 作用，通过选用标准化设施降低环境污染风险；分阶段推广标准化设 备，借以在降低重复操作需求，提高运营效率的同时降低能耗。 We have introduced a comprehensive evaluation of the mechanisms of wastewater treatment, waste gas treatment and dust control, reducing the risk of environmental pollution. We promote the standardization of equipment in order to reduce demand in repeated operations, improve operational efficiency and reduce energy consumption. 2014 年底，我们开始推广 EHS 标准化体系，旨在通过相关工作的展开， 进一步加速实现降低碳排放的目标。 By the end of 2014, we have begun to promote a standard system of EHS to further accelerate the realization of targets for reducing carbon emissions and energy consumption. 23 Communication on Progress 反腐败篇 ANTI-CORRUPTION 内部廉洁自律制度设立 Internal SelfDiscipline 与所有供应商签订反商业贿赂条款 一个组织能否健康稳步发展，终归要从内部着手，解决阻碍发展的问 External Mechanism 题。鹏远新和了解一个高效廉洁组织的有效运转，离不开内部廉洁自 律制度的设立，我们加强了内审工作，成立了内审小组，针对个别岗 反腐是 2014 年中国热词，作为一家国企，鹏远新和也积极开展了一系 位员工收受贿赂等易发现象，从源头上予以杜绝，对员工进行廉洁自 列的反腐行动，在 2014 年重新制定反腐计划并与所有供应商签订反商 律教育。通过廉洁自律制度的建立，公司树立了良好的企业形象，提 业贿赂条款，对供应商公布举报电话等反腐联系方式，对于商业贿赂 供了公平有序的竞争环境，为寻找优质的合作伙伴提供了保障。 行为，一经发现，绝不姑息。 At Pioneer Logistics we understand that an effective and efficient In 2014, all suppliers and partners that we, Pioneer Logistics, conduct organization cannot run without first establishing an honest and open business with are required to sign the Anti-bribery provision. This provision atmosphere and placing trust in every staff member. Owing to our ensures that our company, as a state-owned enterprise actively carries out companies’ prime focus on teaching employees self-discipline, creating a a series of anti-corruption procedures and strategies to establish ethical and fair and orderly competitive working environment that eliminates any genuine partnerships with companies that share similar ideologies. We corruption and illegal activities allows us to guarantee that our business and prohibit any and all illegal activities in addition, any activities that violate business partners run their business in a fair, honest manner. In order to morality and integrity, including bribery, cheating, plagiarism, money promote sustainable growth and advantageous business development we laundering, illegal transactions, and stealing company property are strictly not only respect every employee's value and individual freedom, we also forbidden. By providing regular anti-corruption training to our staff we are provide staff comprehensive support, to create an overall atmosphere of able to lay a solid foundation for staff’s ethical and ideological education to unity, harmony and optimism among all members in the company. help us build an incorruptible enterprise culture. Our staff strictly abides by management policies and have never accepted any form of bribery or participated in activities that could jeopardize their moral integrity or their job. 24 Communication on Progress 展望 OUTLOOK 鹏远新和的总体发展目标：在保持快速发展、优化结构、降低能耗、 尊重环境的基础上，实现服务质量的不断提高。我们将继续秉承“以人 为本、绿色物流、创新经济、持续发展”的发展原则，发挥物流技术与 物流资源的优势，逐步完善和强化公司现有的产业链，实现企业、社 会、员工共同发展的愿景，不断创新技术及管理模式，提升物流资源 利用率及客户服务水平，积极参加与其他企业的国际化合作与竞争， 继续保持行业领先，努力打造世界一流的物流企业。 Pioneer Logistics’ overall development goal is to continually improve our quality of service, fast development, structure optimization, and respect for the environment through the reduction of energy consumption and carbon emissions. We will obey the developmental principles of people first, green logistics, economic innovation, and sustainable development and improve on our logistics technologies and resources to strengthen our company’s industrial chain. We will constantly work to create innovative technologies and plans 鹏远新和国际物流有限公司 promoting effective and efficient utilization of logistics resources, and participate in international cooperation and competition with global and PIONEER LOGISTICS CORPORATION domestic enterprises to maintain an industry-leading level and build a 电话 Tel: 86-10-6472 8916 world-class reputation as a credible logistics enterprise. 传真 Fax: 86-10-6472 8916-601 地址：北京市朝阳区花家地东路 3 号，100102 Add: No.3 East Road Huajiadi Chaoyang District, Beijing, P.R.China, 100102 Website: www.caacpl.com
