2012 Communication on Progress Participant Orakel Published 5/2015 Time period 05/2013-05/2014 Format Stand alone document – Basic COP Template Statement of continued support by the Chief Executive Officer Statement of the company’s chief executive (CEO or equivalent) expressing continued support for the Global Compact and renewing the company’s ongoing commitment to the initiative and its principles. To our stakeholders: I am pleased to confirm that Orakel reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours, Dirk Spooren Managing Director Human Rights Assessment, policy and goals Orakel’s goal is to inform employees about human rights principles and to organize incompany initiatives to raise awareness about human rights issues. Furthermore, we want to take human rights principles into account throughout our production processes and business transactions. Implementation  Through the Foster Parents Plan (www.planbelgie.be) Orakel supports childfocused community development in third world countries. We keep our employees aware of this by communicating with our “foster child”, Jose from Ecuador, through letters and postcards. Employees let their children make drawings to send along with the cards. This way, raising awareness also happens outside of the company, within the employees’ families.  Once a year Orakel hosts a fair trade breakfast for its employees. On this day, employees leave their car at home and come to work by bike or public transport. Upon arrival, they can partake in a breakfast with fair trade products and receive information about the principles and importance of fair trade.  Orakel commits itself to strict ethical principles during the production process. Eco-tokens can be made from a variety of organic raw materials, but Orakel chooses to manufacture them strictly from organic waste products like potato peels, rather than taking products away from the food chain.  Orakel delivered a token order for a humanitarian UN project in Liberia.  Orakel participated in “Zuiddag” on October 17 2013. This is a project where companies can offer vacancies for secondary school students to offer their services for a day. We recruited 2 students and also gave an interview to some other students to report on the project. In return they earn a wage that is donated to a humanitarian project. http://zuiddag.be/ Measurement of outcomes The initiatives Orakel organized have raised awareness and employee engagement towards human rights principles. With the company, we ‘adopted’ a child through the Foster Parents Plan for an amount of 25 euro per month. Labour Principles Assessment, Policy and Goals Orakel supports the UN Global Compact principles regarding labour rights and applies these principles within the company. Orakel cares deeply for the well-being of its employees and actively engages in initiatives to constantly improve the employee’s personal health and well-being as well as the general atmosphere within the company. Implementation  Orakel perceives diversity as an asset and has an equal opportunities policy which prevents discrimination of all kinds and ensures comparable pay for comparable work. We also signed the “Diversiteitsverklaring” by Jobkanaal (http://jobkanaal.be/diversiteit-op-de-werkvloer/diversiteitsverklaring) and actively recruit via this channel.  Orakel provides fresh seasonal fruit to its employees on a monthly basis.  Orakel organized a workshop “fire prevention + use of different extinguishers” for all of its employees on March 6th 2014. All of the participants earned a certificate both for the theoretical test and the practical segment.  As part of an Easter basket, Orakel provided all of its employees with smoke detectors to place in their homes.  Orakel keeps its employees informed about ergonomics and the optimal way of executing tasks to avoid injury.  Orakel underwent a safety scan and implemented all of the suggested improvements.  In February 2014 Orakel organized a project for 2 local primary schools. For a period of 2 weeks, the 4th and 5th grades came to visit for a company tour and to complete several assignments (with regard to environment, finance, leadership, creative design etc.). All of the Orakel employees were invited to participate in the project and some also gave a presentation at a meeting for parents at the school. Measurement of outcomes The equal opportunities policy has led to a high degree of diversity within our organization. The other initiatives have resulted in an augmentation of the employee’s engagement toward a healthy lifestyle, both at work and at home; it also served to improve the general atmosphere. All of the workstations have been improved with regard to ergonomics, electricity and safety. During the safety scan a video was made that was shown to all employees to raise awareness about safety (e.g. not moving fire extinguishers, not placing objects outside the pathway lines. Employees take this to heart and remind each other about safety measures when necessary. Environmental Principles Assessment, Policy and Goals We are committed to the environment and sustainability is our trademark. We are constantly challenging ourselves to produce safe, eco-friendly and sustainable products. We are closely monitoring the energy we use and the waste we generate. We constantly educate our employees with regard to environmental issues. Implementation  One thing we cannot avoid is sending packages. To compensate for these carbon emissions, we have a partnership with UPS to ship Carbon Neutral. We pay a bit more per package and thereby support various projects, e.g. about reforestation.  We partnered up with a local college to start an energy management system. During the projects we gathered all our energy data and received lots of suggestions to improve. We have had 2 MA students to work on their MA-thesis about energy management in our company. Currently all of the machines have a separate counter so that we can Measurement of Outcomes In 2013 we have started an energy evaluation project through a local expertise centre. They are currently measuring and evaluating our energy use so they can provide us with a report on our progress and possible improvements for the future. Anti-corruption Assessment, policy and goals Orakel supports the United Nations Global Compact principles on anti-corruption. We work diligently to prevent corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Implementation Our policies on corruption are part of our employee handbook and the introductory brochure for new employees. It also clearly indicates the counselor to whom employees can go to in the case of guideline violation. Measurement of outcomes So far, there hasn’t been any incident regarding corruption reported to the counselor.
