Communication on Progress SharpCloud Software 13/04/2015 13/04/2015 Mr. Secretary-General I am pleased to confirm that SharpCloud Software reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and AntiCorruption. With this communication, we express our intent to advance those principles within our sphere of influence. We are committed to making the Global Compact and its principles part of the strategy, culture and day-to-day operations of our company, and to engaging in collaborative projects which advance the broader development goals of the United Nations, particularly the Millennium Development Goals. SharpCloud Software Ltd. will make a clear statement of this commitment to our stakeholders and the general public. We recognize that a key requirement for participation in the Global Compact is the annual submission of a Communication on Progress (COP) that describes our company’s efforts to implement the ten principles. We support public accountability and transparency, and therefore commit to report on progress within one year of joining the Global Compact, and annually thereafter according to the Global Compact COP policy. Sincerely yours, Sarim Khan Co-founder & CEO Human Rights Principles Assessment, Policy and Goals Our Goal: Ensure we continue to protect the privacy rights of our clients and associates through the introduction of new governance of data principles. Implementation To ensure a safe working environment and to maintain the well-being of all members of the workforce. We explain in our handbook how everyone can discuss any issues with senior members as we strive to maintain an ‘open door’ policy relating to the deployment of our corporate human resources policy. Measurements of outcomes We review our data governance human resources policy. Labour Principles Assessment, Policy and Goals SharpCloud supports ILO Core Convention and will not do business with any organisation who uses forced or child labour. All SharpCloud employees are issued with a contract of employment which clearly states their terms and conditions including pay rates. All staff are issued with a company handbook which includes information on standard terms and conditions of employment, company benefits, company rules, grievance and disciplinary procedures Implementation SharpCloud management consult with staff on a continuous basis. Each member of staff has an annual review whereby the CEO does a re-cap on the past year appraising staff of what we have achieved, where we are going in business and thanking individuals who have made a specific contribution. Measurement of outcomes We run appraisals each year to identify personal development needs and training requirements and these are the actioned where financially possible. Environmental Principles Assessment, Policy and Goals As a software company we encourage less printing throughout or office and also with our clients and partners. Our software allows this to be feasible as everything can be viewed, managed in real-time both online and offline. Implementation We have a strict recycling process within the workplace. Every member is actively responsible for recycling within our organisation. Measurement of outcomes Senior management regularly discuss at their quarterly review meetings, how we can be more environmentally friendly and replace old/broken devices with new environmentally friendly devices. Anti-Corruption Principles Assessment, Policy and Goals Associates, partners and resellers are required to adhere to the global compact anti-corruption principles. Implementation Any reports of corruption incidents relating to SharpCloud are taken to the co-founders. Measurements of outcomes Resellers/Partners are required to sign up to a strong professional ethical code of practice.
