FR C Su ro st wn A ai n W ab o il rld it y w Re id G po e rt 20 1 4 IL E contents 2 the world we know SUPPORTING THE GLOBAL COMPACT Our vision Targets GOALS FOR 2015 Environment health and safety Data privacy fair labor practices community PARTNERSHIPS stakeholder engagement anti-bribery and corruption 3 the world we know San Francisco Dallas Los Angeles Toronto Mexico City At Crown, we aim to do business in a way that positively impacts the communities in which we live and São Paolo work. By establishing responsible policies, monitoring our impacts and continuously seeking improvements, we are determined to be an asset in each of our locations. 4 Every Crown office is helping to make us a sustainable business y to Cit r on ic o To x Me We’ve built food hampers We care for baby trees for needy families o isc nc ngeles ra A nF os Sa L We donate to an e-waste recycler We walk for cancer o ol Pa Dallas o Sa We’ve caught fish for funds to We bring fun to children support firefighter families with HIV 5 the world we know Paris Prague London Istanbul Chengdu Abu Dhabi Shanghai Kolkata Hong Kong Bangkok Singapore Johannesburg Brisbane Auckland n ue do Paris Lo n Prag We run to beat breast cancer We hold Christmas parties for We’ve donated furniture to schools underprivileged children 6 Every Crown office is helping to make us a sustainable business ai k n g h ko Ko ng ng a Ba ng Sh Ho We help out at a homeless shelter We build firebreaks to protect We’ve donated logistics to communities a Box of Hope ore ata nd lk la n gap Ko ck Si Au We’ve delivered smiles to We share time with blind students We team up with a client a children’s home to collect furniture for charity ne gd u n Brisba C he We mentor local teens We’ve sponsored a local fair for charity ul abi urg nb Dh esb u nn Ista Ab ha Jo We donate cartons and transport We’ve created a local garden We’ve planted indigenous trees for school books 7 Supporting the Global Compact Chairman’s letter of commitment As Chairman of The Crown Worldwide Group I would like to express our ongoing commitment to the principles of the United Nations Global Compact. The Crown Worldwide Group and all our staff members around the world are dedicated to upholding the basic beliefs that are expressed in its ten principles. In 2015 our company will be celebrating the 50th anniversary of its founding. Throughout our years in business, we have continually embraced the rights of all people – especially our employees. I’m also very proud to say that we’ve worked hard to preserve the environment, and to educate our staff about what they can do at work to support a cleaner world. For the same reason, we have clear anti-corruption policies in force with our company and continually update these and train our staff to avoid becoming party to this unacceptable behavior. In the years ahead, we intend to live by the principles of the United Nations Global Compact and look forward to working toward a better global society. Sincerely, James E. Thompson Chairman 8 Our commitment to the principles of the United Nations Global Compact Fully supported by Crown’s senior management, anti-corruption, and to take action in support of UN Crown seeks to align with and uphold the basic goals, including the Millennium Development Goals. principles of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC). The UNGC is a call to companies The following chart demonstrates how the content everywhere to voluntarily align their operations and of this Sustainability Report aligns with the ten UNGC strategies with ten universally-accepted principles in principles. Please refer to the specific policies, actions, the areas of human rights, labor, environment and initiatives and goals in each area. Crown Environment Health Data Fair Labor Community Stakeholder Anti-Bribery & Initiative and Privacy Practices Partnership Engagement Corruption Safety Human Rights UN Global Compact Principles 1. Support and respect protection of human rights 2. Make sure not complicit in human rights abuses Labor 3. Uphold freedom of association and effective recognition of rights of collective bargaining. 4. Elimination of forced or compulsory labor. 5. Abolish child labor. 6. Elimination of discrimination in respect to employment and occupation. Environment 7. Precautionary approach to environmental challenges. 8. Initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. 9. Encourage development and diffusion of environmentally-friendly technologies. Anti-Corruption 10. Work against corruption in all forms, including extortion and bribery. 9 our vision 10 The benefits of aiming high Our extraordinary people 2014 marked an important step for Crown. It was As you can see from the figures in this report, the first time that we compared actual performance the positive impact Crown has on communities against global targets. When we set them, we hoped continues to increase. Why? Improvements to our these targets were realistic; with the right efforts, CSR structure help, like setting more CSR-related most of them were. However, the experience of employee performance targets, creating clearer global missing a couple of targets – and of aiming for them policies and appointing senior managers to drive to start with – has had the biggest impact of all. We specific CSR issues. But that’s not what makes Crown can more clearly see the strengths and weaknesses of do more each year. In an effort to nurture a deeply CSR efforts around our global organization, how we embedded CSR culture, we encourage our people to need to upgrade our data collection and where we decide on, develop and drive initiatives. The result: most need to improve. our extraordinary people never cease to amaze us. Because they understand and care about local needs, Telling you more they have created a momentum for positive change. Their ingenuity, passion and local knowledge have In this year’s Sustainability Report we are reporting brought magic to our mission yet again. on a much broader range of sustainability topics than previously. In addition to the environment, community outreach and health and safety, we are Materiality ahead sharing what Crown is doing in relation to human As we look to the coming year, we are focused on rights, fair labor practices and anti-corruption. We’ve issues material to our business activities. We will aimed to uphold UN Global Compact principles for scrutinize our environmental performance, especially years. Starting in 2014, however, we will also comply those areas where we missed our targets. To enable with its requirement to externally report on our us to keep doing good, we aim to share the value of progress in these areas. what we bring to communities to also strengthen our company. Most importantly, we will keep looking for new practices and ways to leverage our core business activities, so that we can have a positive impact every single day. Jennifer Harvey Director of CSR, The Crown Worldwide Group 11 TARGETS How we performed against our 2013 goals Target for Environment Improve efficiency in the use of natural resources Vehicle fuel efficiency Target 2% Target at 2 % Actual at -4.9 % Electricity use Actual per square meter 4.8% of facility space Target at 2 % Actual at 1.3 % Office paper Target at 2 % use per Actual at 3.9 % employee Target Target at 2 % 2% Actual at 0.7 % Water use per Actual employee 6.6% 12 target for target for Health and Stakeholder Safety engagement Provide 100% of Crown’s employees across the globe Employees with access to the Company’s Health and Safety Implement a corporate volunteering policy guidelines, upholding the standards of OHSAS 18001. allowing every employee paid time to volunteer in their local community in every one of our Outcome: Achieved. countries by the end of 2014. Outcome: Pending and 100% on course for end-2014. We are delighted to report that we improved in all areas of our environmental performance with the exception of vehicle fuel efficiency for trucks. Steps are being taken to rectify this and we are determined that when we publish next year’s Sustainability Report we will be able to demonstrate improvement in every single area. We also aimed to increase the number of Crown branches that have achieved the externally-audited ISO 14001 environmental standard. This accreditation process ensures that each business carefully reviews its environmental impacts and finds ways to manage, monitor and continuously improve performance. Outcome: Achieved. In 2013, eight additional Crown businesses established the necessary policies and practices to successfully achieve certification. 13 Goals for 2015 Environment Achieve external certifications at Improvement additional Crown to 85% on-time businesses around and accurate the world in 2015 reporting of natural resource usage. Improve fuel and electric efficiency by 2%. a) ISO 14001 (environmental) – a minimum of nine more locations b) OHAS 18001 (health and safety) – a minimum of seven more locations c) ISO 27001 (customer data privacy) – a minimum of four more locations Group Increase the number of policies community to 100% Of support events employees Increase the number of community support events Communicate the following Group policies to 100% in which Crown participates by 10%. Aim for 50% of employees: Code of Conduct, Health and Safety, of employees to participate in CSR projects. Environment, Employee Volunteering, Anti-Bribery & Corruption. 14 do n dro t o p Stakeholder engagement Employees • Increase number of Crown sites which engage in CSR activities by 10%. • 100% of Crown employees and new hires to undergo Crown’s Anti-Bribery & Corruption e-learning curriculum. Clients • Partner with external stakeholders in CSR initiatives in 30% of our countries. • Develop measurable goals for joint initiatives within key client relationships. Supply chain • Develop e-learning material specifically designed to educate our supply chain on Crown’s code of conduct and CSR expectations throughout 2015. • Goals for 2016 include ensuring that 100% of partners have completed the CSR-related elements of Crown’s qualification process and enhancing due diligence to ensure responsible conduct for the higher-risk parts of the supply chain. 15 Environment New types of hybrid-electric trucks and electric vehicles are becoming available in worldwide markets where Crown provides transportation services. This has enabled Crown to better understand how investment in these energy-efficient technologies can best serve customers while reducing emissions. These trucks have smaller capacities and driving distance ranges but have proven well-suited to records retrievals and other small intra-city deliveries. With every new purchase, Crown also learns more about how to make these investments financially sustainable so that we can continue to expand the fleet further. Throughout 2014, the company has added hybrid and electric trucks to each of its geographic regions. 16 Carefully handling our Earth In 2014, Crown received a “PATT” We are paying more attention than ever to our Environmental Impact Award for being the impact on the environment. We know that our business to plant the most trees in 2013 at this greatest impacts are from vehicle fuel and the environmental charity’s Thailand tree farms. Forest electricity consumption at offices and facilities restoration through tree planting helps to accelerate around the world. We’re also looking at how we the recovery of forest structures and reinstates can improve our packing materials and our waste both ecological functioning and biodiversity levels. management. In conjunction with its reforestation projects, PATT conducts environmental education programs for The company collects data on all of these areas school children. in a natural resources consumption database. The database offers a consistent global view of business energy use with comparisons between locations, regions and time periods. The quality and completeness of the data held in the system improved in 2013, largely because of better communication and training of correct reporting. The database also benefited from ongoing feedback, through better dashboard views for managers and greater executive management involvement. In 2013, our key performance indicators showed the following trends in efficiency: • Vehicle fuel efficiency • Electricity use per square meter of facility space • Office paper use per employee • Water use per employee In 2015, Crown aims to find solutions on how to better quantify and monitor its packaging consumption and waste globally. While geographically-varying practices in the packaging and recycling industries have posed significant challenges, we want to find meaningful metrics to help us better understand our performance in this area. We are also reviewing various global emissions offset opportunities. If feasible and sustainable, this is another way in which we plan to further enhance our goal of positively impacting the environment. 17 Health and safety In 2013, the Royal Society for the Prevention of Accidents awarded Crown UK & Ireland a silver occupational health and safety award. A rigorous assessment process included preparing a detailed review of all health and safety policies and procedures, accident statistics, actions taken to prevent accidents and how health and safety issues are communicated to staff. Crown has taken part in this award scheme since 2008, encompassing every branch in the UK&I region. 18 Enhancing employee wellness Promoting health and safety at work To further embed good practices, we have also helps boost the physical and mental wellpublished easy-to-read pocket guides on general health and safety advice and on safe driving for all our being of our people. Healthy and happy employees. employees make Crown more productive and customers better cared for – a win Our goals for 2015 include expanding our OHSAS for everyone. 18001 health and safety certification to at least 30% more international locations. This will enable In 2013, Crown created a globally–accepted Health us to further spread and embed safe work habits and Safety Manual. This manual is now available to for our employees around the globe. We will also all worldwide businesses and forms the basis of our continue our work to establish a common global global OHSAS 18001 policy. Following external accident record to help us monitor our worldwide audits, we have retained our OHSAS 18001 at all 21 performance and set targets for improvement. sites within our existing certification. 19 DATA PRIVACY Data security meets charity fundraising: To encourage compliance on a daily basis, and between audits, one Crown team came up with a novel initiative. Any employee caught leaving their computer unlocked while away from their desk makes a small donation to the team’s nominated charity for that year. 20 Safeguarding personal information Being a responsible company We recognize that in some cases sensitive information is also handled by our service partners. means making sure we protect our This is why Crown has released a supply chain customers’ and our employees’ rights management system which emphasizes compliance to privacy. with data privacy policies through the qualifying and contractual stages of an engagement. This industryleading compliance system has resulted in external Consistent procedures accolades and the awarding of major contracts. To minimize the dangers of identity theft, we have established consistent policies and practices. Crown’s Binding Corporate Rules (BCR) on data Consistent management attention privacy – which comply with international legislative All of the above are driven by Crown’s Chief Risk requirements and recommendations – are mandatory Officer and a dedicated Group Compliance Officer. privacy procedures for all our entities. They help keep personal information safe and ensure prompt reporting to management if there is any data breach External audits of loss. We are certified with the US Department of ISO 27001 is an externally-audited information Commerce’s Safe Harbor Program which means that security standard that Crown has achieved and is we handle customer data according to the standards extending to its businesses around the globe. At the of EU countries. The majority of Crown’s offices also end of 2013, 20 Crown businesses were certified; 20% ensure that individual customers sign a consent form more are targeted for certification by the end of 2015. prior to the processing of their personal data. 21 FAIR LABOR PRACTICES 22 Being there for our people Working with dignity We are committed to treating our employees fairly. Beyond complying with local employment laws, we seek to uphold the labor principles of the UN Global Compact by fostering a work environment where individuals are treated with respect and dignity and given equal employment opportunities. The company does not allow discriminatory practices, forced labor or the employment of children under 16 years of age, all of which Crown views as violations of fundamental human rights. Policy of fairness These policies are described in detail in our documented Code of Conduct – acknowledged annually by all employees – which describes Crown’s fair labor practices. They include policies on: • Equal opportunity employment In 2014, Crown in the UK and Ireland was • Prohibiting child labor • Prohibiting mistreatment by workplace bullying again accredited as an Investors in People • Prohibiting sexual harassment (IiP) employer. This most recent award had a • Prohibiting retaliation to employee seeking to special distinction in that it included all divisions invoke his/her rights across the region, including Relocations, Our human resources teams maintain and manage Records Management and Fine Art, which these labor policies. represent some 600 employees. It followed a comprehensive assessment, as part of which 50 employees were interviewed across a number of branches. While the company has held IiP accreditation since 1998, it will continue its work with IiP to further develop its people management and engagement strategies. 23 COMMUNITY PARTNERSHIPS The Crown Foundation supported our global Philippines typhoon relief effort, matching worldwide fundraising, to total US$ 32,000. 24 e storm p e d th e worst of th bu esc a st the Crown Ce isla n d s w ere among outlying Hilario but nearby B r a n c h M anager Sid areas. rea hardest hit d r e lie f g o ods to an a delivere , located On November 8, 2013, Super-Typhoon Haiyan and his wife r ly dif fi c ult to reach rticu la 300 devastated parts of Asia. Though the Philippines that was pa th e m a in road. Some 10 kilomete rs from rown also experiences many typhoons each year, this one was o m th eir work. C efite d fr ibution. the deadliest in recorded history with over 6,000 families ben h e lp w ith this distr rtons to birthday people killed and 4 million displaced from their donated ca n c e lle d his seventh aul, c a rty to homes. Sid’s son, P th e m o n ey for the pa onated dicine for party and d b u y fo od and me oss to With operations in two cities – Manila and Cebu – the Red Cr and a long history of doing business in the Philippines, the victims. Crown employees responded and – in the process The Christmas party is a much-loved tradition – set a company record. Through donations and in the Philippines; local employees look forward fundraisers our people collectively raised US$ 16,000, to this event with great excitement. In 2013, more than any previous company-wide effort. however, the Crown team collectively decided to donate the money that would have paid for Some things Crowners did to help their party to help typhoon victims. For weeks, Crown Philippines employees The American Red Cross reported that within took shifts packing relief items for victims. the first week of creating its Philippines Fund, 20 employees of Crown USA collectively donated over US $1,000. Crown Manila donated cartons for relief goods, truck transport and packing crew assistance. pressive EMEA raised an im Crowners across f made a whose Crown staf US$ 4,300. Dubai, e victims, ribution to help th The Manila team raised Php 37, 200 for very generous cont ity. ge Filipino commun the Philippines Red Cross. has a particularly lar Crown HK held a food sale that raised over US$ 1,000 (a very lucky HK$ 8,888). The Crown Basel team held a “Jeans and cupcake day”, raising money by selling cupcakes and the right to wear jeans to work one day. In the USA, the Crown Chicago set up a collection box for staff to donate canned food to existing charity partner Move for Hunger. The office then donated the equivalent value of the total food donation to the Red Cross’ Philippines Typhoon Fund. 25 COMMUNITY PARTNERSHIPS 26 There to boost our communities We aim to do business in a way that benefits the local community. This helps under-served communities and also helps us. We’ve learned that helping to keep our communities healthy assists our business through a more robust local economy, customer loyalty and employee trust. The enthusiasm of Crown employees who lead these efforts has been an inspiration – motivating to Crown management and peers alike. Over the years, we have learned the value of partnering with local organizations who help us to effectively support people and communities who need help. We keep looking for innovative ways to do this, giving our employees’ time, raising funds and donating our professional expertise. We keep track of all our community activities around the world to ensure that we stay active and improve our impact everywhere. These details can be viewed by any Crown employee as a source of inspiration and ideas. Sharing Smarts with Special Students 15 employees of Crown Hong Kong volunteered In 2013, we grew the number of activities which their time as mentors to 60 students from Hong support communities by 14% to 305 individual events. Kong’s poorest areas. Partnering with the non-profit We aim to keep increasing this number, as well as the organization Community Business and its Engage geographic diversity and employee participation rates. program, these Crown employees met their students every month for six months. Together, they visited Crown facilities and those of other companies, experienced industry-specific training and worked on projects to help the community. This program enabled our employees to make a big commitment to the local community, investing a significant amount of their own time to share experience, industry knowledge and encouragement and ensure these young people have a good start to their careers. 27 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT In May 2014, Crown teamed up with a valued client to actively support the local environment on Novartis’ Community Partnership Day. Held annually, this massive global volunteering event gives Novartis employees and partners around the world, like Crown, another chance to make a positive difference in local communities. In 2014, over 19,000 Novartis employees and partners across 55 countries participated in a wide range of local projects. As part of this tremendous effort, eight employees from Crown Basel helped to clear the ground of fallen trees in Ettingen forest, near Basel, Switzerland. Clearing the forest floor allows for new growth, which will help to remove carbon dioxide from the atmosphere. In past years, Crown participants in Novartis’ Community Partnership Day have painted benches, built sheds for a local hospital and helped pack bags of food. Crown is grateful to Novartis for a chance to be part of this exceptional example of business partnership to benefit community needs. 28 Working together to have a positive impact Employees Supply chain From the top down, every manager and employee Since Crown’s impact extends to the actions of its sets performance goals – including those aligned with service partners and suppliers, we keep working to Crown’s CSR goals. CSR goals help each employee to ensure that members of our supply chain are aligned reflect on the impact of their role and find measurable to Crown’s sustainability goals. Crown has launched ways to improve. Crown’s global Employee a website, code of conduct and an enhanced database Volunteering Policy allows employees to take paid to heighten service partner compliance. A hotline time to support local community issues. They are has been established for service partners to report encouraged to organize local events, invite clients and potential breaches legal compliance and unethical share their achievements through Crown’s internal behaviour. Improved contractual documentation social media network. supports the commitments made by Crown to its clients and includes topics such as legal compliance and fair employment practices. All of these activities have Clients helped Crown to streamline its partner network by A focus in 2015 is to increase Crown’s partnership 60% whilst diversifying services offered. with key clients in CSR initiatives. We can accomplish even more for the community at large by working By 2015 Crown will implement e–learning material to together. Partnering with clients to help the help service partners and suppliers to understand the community has the added benefit of helping teams to issues of corporate social responsibility. communicate and function even more successfully in business activities. We can accomplish even more for the community at large by working together with our clients. 29 ANTI-BRIBERY and CORRUPTION 30 A shared business ethic Crown’s mission to be responsible In addition, we have established an Anti-Bribery and Corruption (ABC) Policy, which clearly explains the everywhere issues and goals to stakeholders, even those in highIt is Crown’s policy to conduct business honestly risk markets. This is complemented by both faceand ethically, with a zero tolerance approach to to-face and e-learning ABC training, completed by bribery and corruption. We are committed to acting employees annually. professionally, fairly and with integrity in all business dealings and relationships wherever we operate and Also available to all our employees is a “Report implementing and enforcing effective systems to Fraud” link to anonymously report any suspicious counter bribery and corruption within the company. activities. This is not a small undertaking when doing business in every country of the world. Integrity in the supply chain Crown’s response to this subject is to create a Crown conducts business globally, even in countries process for identifying the various risks associated with less developed ABC legislation. For this with our business, to educate those people working reason, we extend compliance with ABC policies for and with us in minimizing that risk and to create to our service partners. Though our supply chain mechanisms for reporting behavior that is not management system, this is emphasized during the consistent with our Code of Conduct. qualifying and contractual states of an engagement. A common message and voice Getting better and better Our documented global Code of Conduct covers In late 2014, we aim to set specific targets for our expectations of every employee when it comes improvement in: # of employees completing ABC to business integrity. Acknowledged by employees training courses, number of new markets for face-toannually through Target Crown’s performance face training, number of employees acknowledging management system these include rules on Code of Conduct and results of internal audits. appropriate practices related to: Impartial oversight • Conflicts of interest All of the above are driven by Crown’s Chief Risk • Securities and antitrust laws Officer and a dedicated Group Compliance Officer. • Agreements with competitors, customers or These roles work independently and impartially licensees to uphold corporate objectives to work against • Relationships with public officials corruption in all forms. • Bribery, kickback and fraud • Sanctions and trade embargoes 31 www.crownworldwide.com © 2014 Crown Worldwide Group. All rights reserved. BR-CWG-SR/GMO/NOV-2014/EN/V1.1
