April 17, 2015 Re: CEO Statement of Continued Support Dear Mr. Secretary, I am pleased to confirm our continued support for the United Nations Global Compact, and more specifically our efforts to support and advance the ten principles of the Global Compact within our business. We have applied these principles within our mission, vision, policies, values and, therefore, our systems and procedures. From strategic planning to day‐to‐day operations, our Corporate Social Responsibility policy embeds the ten principles and is therefore fully applied to everything we do. We are proud to make continued efforts to support the United Nations’ Global Compact goals, which have also become core goals for our company. As we grow, we are seeking more opportunities to connect to local communities and support charitable organizations that we believe will have a positive impact on society. The ten principles apply equally to these efforts and therefore help us in our business, our community outreach and giving. Yours sincerely, Peter Wells CEO UpWind Solutions, Inc. 4863 Shawline Street, Suite A, San Diego, CA 92111 www.upwindsolutions.com Global Compact – Communication on Progress (COP) – April 2015 Human Rights Assessment, policy and goals: UpWind will not tolerate human rights abuses and will not engage or be complicit in any activity that solicits or encourages human rights abuses. Implementation: By adopting a Corporate Social Responsibility policy that sits over all company systems, procedures and actions, UpWind has implemented the following policies on Human Rights:  UpWind recognizes that governments have the primary responsibility to promote and protect human rights.  UpWind will work with governments and agencies to support and respect human rights within our sphere of influence while fully complying with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA).  UpWind will not tolerate human rights abuses, and will not engage or be complicit in any activity that solicits or encourages human rights abuse.  UpWind will always strive to build trust, deliver mutual advantage and demonstrate respect for human dignity and rights in all relationships it enters into, including respect for cultures, customs and values of individuals and groups. Measurement of outcomes: By incorporating the ten principles in our Corporate Social Responsibility policy we have embedded the goals as an overarching requirement of our core procedures and actions …Strategy, Marketing & Sales, New Products, Projects, Purchasing and Net Promoter Score. The policy is part of our Integrated Management System and therefore subject to annual audits that address any findings, observations and opportunities to improve. Labor Assessment, policy and goals: UpWind will ensure that all employees are treated fairly and with dignity while applying fair labor practices and providing equal opportunity in all aspects of employment. UpWind will also ensure that employees have appropriate opportunities for personal development, training, promotion and a safe, high quality work environment that encourages employee participation and involvement with company initiatives and evolution. Implementation: UpWind has ensured the adoption of the fair labor practices by including the Global Compact principles in its Corporate Social Responsibility policy. It has also developed and implemented a business philosophy and strategy called O&M Excellence© that is a core business program. This program integrates our company values, employee engagement and development program (You.First), safety (Zero Harm) and quality (Zero Defects) programs for superior results that deliver customer value. Measurement of outcomes: UpWind measures the effectiveness of its programs through standard operational reviews, key performance indicators and standard metrics. These include the following:  You.First: Employee recognition and awards, employee promotions, training certifications and employee surveys.  Zero Harm: Standard OSHA metrics, including Total Recordable Injury Rate.  Zero Defects: Net Promoter Score UpWind Solutions, Inc. 4863 Shawline Street, Suite A, San Diego, CA 92111 www.upwindsolutions.com Global Compact – Communication on Progress (COP) – April 2015 (cont’d) Environment Assessment, policy and goals: UpWind provides services in renewable energy, specifically wind energy, and offers a suite of solutions that deliver more production, for a lower cost, while enhancing asset life. This core mission promotes the use of alternative energy and supports the use of renewable energy sources that protect the environment. UpWind is also an active member of the America Association of Wind Energy, being a long standing member and has representation on the main board and several steering committees. In 2014, UpWind selected Light The World as a corporate partner and preferred charity, providing engineering and project management services at no charge and also making charitable donations. Light The World are using renewable energy generation technologies and distributed DC micro grids to bring environmentally friendly electricity to remote areas that desperately need it. Implementation: Upwind develops, promotes and implements services on dozens of wind farm projects across North America. In 2014, UpWind provided safe, high quality services on 25 projects under long term projects covering more than 1,500 wind turbines. These projects ran at exceptionally high availability levels, generating enough electricity to power 800,000 homes. UpWind continues to develop local community connections to promote renewable energy, energy efficiency and recycling activities. While also developing projects with Light The World. Measurement of outcomes: UpWind measures its service excellence through several key metrics for safety, quality, team development and project results (production and availability). These measurements are captured and report on a daily, weekly, monthly, quarterly and annual basis. Community inter‐action and charitable support, relating to the environment, is targeted and tracked through our quarterly objectives and key results. Anti‐Corruption Assessment, policy and goals: Leadership in integrity, safety and quality is UpWind’s first core value and further enhanced with our Corporate Social Responsibility Policy that drives corporate commitments to all of the United Nations Global Compact principles, including anti‐corruption. Implementation: UpWind has adopted a strong ethical policy along with a Foreign Corrupt Practices Act compliance plan. All sub‐contractors, consultants and suppliers are required to adopt, or confirm compliance with, our policies and procedures. Measurement of outcomes: UpWind has developed and implemented training on integrity, compliance and anti‐ corruption. We have a goal of zero integrity misses every year and have maintained this goal since our formation in 2007. UpWind Solutions, Inc. 4863 Shawline Street, Suite A, San Diego, CA 92111 www.upwindsolutions.com
