S.K.CORPORATION September 21, 2015 To our stakeholders: Same as previous years I once again reconfirm the SK CORPORATION support towards Ten Principles of UNGC covering Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. We at SK Corporation take this as our obligation to carry out our activities in a way that promise a better tomorrow. Our whole team is committed to observe the implementation of the principles of Global Compact at all levels across the organization. We have focused to adopt fair & equitable practices at workplace, environment friendly processes and advanced our efforts to support GC principles. We understand our social responsibility is an integral part not only for the success & sustainability of the organization but for the whole community we live in. Thank You. Zia Uddin CEO S.K.Corporation S.K.CORPORATION HUMAN RIGHTS: We believe that human rights add value to business and center our business activities on the concept of humanity and strictly support human rights at all level of our business and ensure that neither the organization nor any of our business associates involve in any human rights violation or abuse in any manner. Respect of human rights at the work place attract and retain the best staff and improves performance. In this regard SK Corporation; • monitors, seeks redress for and report on human rights violations, and take steps to prevent any harassment at work place • educates its employees and provides additional training to alleviate even the slightest perception of inappropriate behavior • opts transparent business practices that help in protecting and promoting human rights and minimize opportunities for corrupt behavior • treats its personnel as assets and provide secure environment to successfully conclude the business operations Implementation : • Manager is expected to exercise vigilance on a day-to-day basis and to ensure that the employees are able to work in a positive atmosphere free from physical or psychological threat, abuse or sexual harassment and to periodically identify and address issues, if any, that are of concern • As matter of policy, we do not deal with the company or party with history of human rights abuse • Our orientation process includes an explanation of the organization’s expectations of behavior and conduct, to ensure that employees are well aware of our ethical standards from their first day of work S.K.CORPORATION Outcomes: • Our employees work with a feel of security which have positive impact on their productivity • We have been able to work for development of the society as whole and also provide financial support through various NGOs and humanity organizations which are working in social sector, health sector, environment, education and disaster relief LABOUR: SK Corporation believes in Dignity of Labour. HR policies are designed to provide equal opportunities to everyone without any discrimination and do not disadvantage employees potential. All the workers have fair chances to fully utilize and develop their skills & potential. Our policies & practices are based on meritocracy. Implementation : • SK Corporation does not ask employees to submit their original official documentation or to deposit any kind of security as part of their conditions of employment. • Employment in our organization is on free willingness of the employees. They are free to terminate the contract of employment anytime by serving the notice of stipulated time period • At the end of each year of employment employees become entitled to four weeks' paid annual holidays. Employees can ask to cash-up up their annual holidays each year • We do not take any money out of employees pay unless they have agreed to it in writing, or it is required by the Government • We do not permit the recruitment of child or person under the age of 18 years. We prevent this within organization and supply chain directly or indirectly. Ages of all candidates are confirmed at the time of employment • We continued to Support education and vocational work for needy children. S.K.CORPORATION We keep our workplace free from: • Physical dangers, • Harassment, • Bullying, and • Discrimination Outcomes: Success comes through people. When companies are effective in satisfying their employees, employees stay longer, make a deeper commitment to the business, recommend ways to improve the company's products and services, and work harder to satisfy the customer. ENVIRONMENT: Today every business has a responsibility towards its stakeholders. Customers and society at large are more aware of the negative impacts of business as usual. They want cleaner and more ethical products and services. Business today also has a responsibility towards the environment – it cannot keep endlessly extracting resources without consequence. The social responsibility of business therefore is to protect the economic system and by implication the bigger socioenvironmental system upon which it rests.We take this as our social responsibility and have developed policy how can we best help to save the environnent. As previous, we continued our steps to improve environmental performance by preventing the activities having harmful and negative impact on environment. Implementation : As previous ; • We encouraged and promoted the concept of going paperless by using electronic forms for billing statements, receipts, and payroll. We preferred transferring funds directly to a bank instead of issuing checks since this can save hundreds of sheets of paper a month • Instructed workers to recycle paper and envelopes too S.K.CORPORATION • We believe Plantation is a regular process of our day to day life. Plants not only help the environment, but actually ease the tension in the office. Beautiful surroundings can reduce stress and boost spirits which enhance overall productivity of the employees • We used Non-toxic cleaning products • Wherever possible; we preferred tele/video conferences and meeting to avoid fuel usage. • We maximized the use of reusable and recyclable products Outcomes: • A clean and green environment has a positive influence on employees' engagement levels and gives them an overall satisfaction and willingness to recommend it as a place to work. Also, they are more likely to state an intention to stay • On average we spend 160-200 hours a month in the office. In this time we want our employees to work to the best of their abilities, achieve set goals and enjoy working in the office environment • Providing our employees with a clean office can have a variety of positive effects. It can motivate our workforce allowing them to focus on their goals, sends of a ‘we care’ message that can also prevent the spread of germs and reduce annual sick leave, and can reflect positively on your company’s image • A clean environment improves people's sense of wellbeing and reduces anxiety • Well maintained office space not only attracts employees and keeps the current workforce happy; it can also impress prospective clients when they come in for a meeting. You’re not just selling your services and credentials, you’re selling the company as a whole so make sure you’re represented in the best light S.K.CORPORATION ANTI-CORRUPTION We continued our policy to conduct all of our business in an honest and ethical manner. We are committed and always strive to promote ethical behavior and reduce the risk of fraud and corruption at internal & external levels since instances of fraud and corrupt conduct put at risk the reputation not only of the staff involved but also the reputation of the organization. Implementations: As previous; • We have developed policies on financials, legal, tax, responsible purchasing and business integrity & ethics relating matters • Relevant managers systematically monitor, report, and follow up on anticorruption and bribery on an ongoing basis • Company regularly interacts with clients, customers and associates to get their views & suggestions. • Random audits are conducted to check and control the transparency of the transactions and reports are ultimately sent to CEO. Outcomes: • To act responsibly and fairly are important factors in achieving long-term business success. Our organization has worked with this business ethics as a normal part of the business • Suppliers and clients are happy doing business if there is an efficient, clean and transparent environment without being encumbered by bribery • Employees are aware of the consequences they will have to face if found doing wrong
