Statement of continued support by the Chief Executive Ofcer I am pleased to confrm that Real Travel Service reafrms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption and for that we have nominated Mr Nabil Saoudi to follow up on this process. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours, Hicham Rajraji Chief Executive Ofcer 1. Human Rights Principles: Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of Internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. 1.1 Assessment, policy and goals: Real Travel Service is actively concerned about the human rights of its employees and making sure they are not abused. 1.2 Implementation By incorporating human rights in the company’s Code of Conduct, Real Travel Service is demonstrating that it will not tolerate or abide by human rights violations. 1.3 Measurement of outcomes Though Real Travel Service is small, but it ensures that all staf abide by the rule of conduct it has that go side by side with Human rights. 2. Labour Principles : Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. 2.1 Assessment, policy and goals: Real Travel Service is actively ensuring all its employees are treated fairly and with dignity while making sure all their rights are recognized through fair labour practices to allow them equal opportunities in all aspects of employment. Real Travel Service is also ensuring a safe working environment for all employees. 2.2 Implementation Real Travel service is encouraging employees to engage and dialogue. Real Travel Service is making sure its employees are trained for at least 30 hours per year at the expense of the company. Real Travel service is engaged in guaranteeing a good work package for its employees and making sure gender equality is respected. Real Travel Service does not discriminate any employee based on religion, race or even religious dress. 2.3 Measurement of outcomes Real Travel Service ensures that all employees are remunerated based on their work without taking into consideration any other factor. 3. Environment Principles : Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies 3.1 Assessment, policy and goals: Real Travel Service is conscious that environment protection starts within the company itself by making sure low energy saving products are used instead of high consumption ones. Real Travel Service is committed to protecting the natural resources it does use and reduce its environmental footprint. 3.2 Implementation Real Travel Service is making sure it does reduce its global paper consumption by advising its employees and its stakeholders to only print when it is really needed and useless printed paper should be again used as draft paper. Through these small gestures, Real Travel Service is adopting an eco attitude. 3.3 Measurement of outcomes Real Travel Service is in a country where energy saving is a priority since the government is mainly investing in clean energy, therefore, Real Travel Service has adhered to this philosophy to follow on its government footstep. Also, Real Travel Service is on the process of being certifed by Travel Life to even bolster its eco attitude. 4. Anti-Corruption Principle Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 4.1 Assessment, policy and goals Real Travel Service is committed to ethical business practices and exercises zero tolerance to corruption policy. 4.2 Implementation Real Travel Service believes that allowing itself to be audited by its stakeholders is a means to deter any employee from engaging in corruption or bribery and a sign of transparency. Real Travel Service adhere to compliance standards for the well-being of its business. 4.3 Measurement of Outcomes All employees of Real Travel Service have been asked to be knowledgeable of the risks of corruption internally and externally and to be more transparent in interacting with clients and even potential ones.
