R EPORT ON TH E SUSTAI NAB I LITY OF OU R VALU E CR EATION 2015 T h e Wa y A h e a d Report on the Sustainability of our Va l u e C r e a t i o n 2 0 1 5 W W W . O T T O G R O U P. C O M ABOUT THIS REPORT About this report_ With our Report on the Sustainability GRI ASPECT Raw Materials & Processing Final Production Trade Customer G4 – 19 of our Value Creation 2015 we provide an account of the ecological and G4 – 20 G R I cat e go r y E N V I R O N M E N T (corresponds to ecological impacts) social impacts along our value chain. We report transparently on our G4 – 21 performance in relation to our CR Strategy 2020 and in doing so, on how Emissions X X X X sustainable our business activities are. Energy X X X X G4 – 17 Reference framework_ The Report on the Sustainability Materials X G4 – 22 of our Value Creation 2015 complements the Otto Group’s reporting on Water X G4 – 23 important developments relating to its CR Strategy and its key indicators Biodiversity X in the Group’s Annual Reports 2013/14 and 2014/15. It covers the period Transport X 1 March 2013 to 28 February 2015 (financial years 2013/14 and 2014/15). Key indicators have been recorded primarily on an annual basis since 2013, G R I cat e go r y S O C I E T Y (corresponds to social risks) with any exceptions stated. Evaluation of X suppliers regarding human rights The key figures relate to 14 Group companies, except where exceptions Evaluation of X are explicitly indicated. These cover the 13 Group companies which were suppliers regarding already included in the previous reporting period: baumarkt direkt, Baur, working conditions bonprix, EOS, Frankonia, Heine, Hermes, OTTO, OTTO Office, Schwab, SportScheck, UNITO und Witt. myToys is a new addition. Details on the businesses belonging to the Group companies as well as their legal strucThe Otto Group’s impACT management process covers topics which are tures are provided in the brief company portraits from page 6 onwards. managed centrally by the Group. This means that employee, governance and societal topics which are decentrally managed by the individual Consequently, all companies in the Report on the Sustainability of our Value Group companies are included in the reporting process under materiality Creation 2015 have their headquarters in either Germany or Austria and criteria, but not as a result of the impACT process. report annual revenue of more than 100 mn€. The Report comprises companies from all three of the Otto Group’s business segments – MultiAuditing_ The Report on the Sustainability of our Value Creation channel Retail, Services and Financial Services. Together, these companies 2015 was audited by PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC) under the Internagenerate 57% of Group revenue. tional Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000. The CR Strategy 2020’s five key indicators were audited (see p. 20). Key figures audited by G4 – 18 Reporting structure and content_ Prior to the PwC are marked in the text with and are indicated in the GRI Index. reporting process, the Otto Group evaluated the ecological and social impact of its activities along the value chain. This approach forms part of Editorial remarks_ The Report on the Sustainability of the impACT sustainability management process (see p. 12 et seq.). Among our Value Creation 2015 is available in German and English. The editorial other things, it serves to prioritise topics for presentation in this report. deadline was May 2015. The next Report on the Sustainability of our Value Creation is scheduled for publication in summer 2017. For the first time, this Report on the Sustainability of our Value Creation 2015 was produced in accordance with the Core option of the new Global For the sake of readability, this report omits gender-based dual entries and Reporting Initiative Guidelines (GRI G4). It also represents the Communicauses the masculine form. In such cases, however, both women and men tion on Progress on the extent to which the Group has implemented the are intended. UN Global Compact. Additional remarks_ The Report on the Sustainability List of material GRI aspects_ The Otto Group has of our Value Creation 2015 is available online at www.ottogroup.com/ assigned those topics which are identified as important in the Materiality sustainabilityreport. Analysis to the aspects defined by the GRI (see table). Key topics are those which have been assigned the strategy types ‘Priority’, ‘Innovation’ and ‘Base’ in the Materiality Matrix (see p. 18). From page 29 onwards the This symbol denotes where the Otto Group meets specific Global Otto Group will report on at least one GRI indicator in relation to the Reporting Initiative G4 indicators e.g. (G4-19). For further aspects listed here. information, please visit www.globalreporting.org. CONTENTS 01 Award-winning CR management: In September 2014 the Otto Group received the German federal government’s CSR Award. This recognises innovative companies that integrate social and environmental sustainability into their business operations. The Otto Group was rated highly on the centrepiece of its sustainability management: the impACT process. Contents C2 About this report 37 Final Production 2 Foreword by the CR Board 38 Challenges identified by impACT 39 The Otto Group’s scope of action 4 The �tto Group 40 Social Programme and additional management approaches 40 Social Programme status 4 Business model and profile of the Otto Group 43 Climate and environmental protection 6 Portraits of the 14 reporting companies 44 Collaborations and alliances 10 The �tto Group’s value chain 45 Trade 12 S ustainable value creation in 46 Challenges identified by impACT the �tto Group 47 The Otto Group’s scope of action 47 Climate Strategy and additional management approaches 12 Sustainability management process impACT 48 Climate Strategy status 20 CR Strategy 2020 51 Environmental protection 23 CR organisational structures 53 Employees 26 Involving stakeholders 59 Customer 29 Raw Materials & Processing 60 Challenges identified by impACT 61 The Otto Group’s scope of action 30 Challenges identified by impACT 61 Management approaches 32 The Otto Group’s scope of action 61 Product transparency and quality 32 Textile, Furniture and Paper Strategy 63 Environmental protection and additional management approaches 63 Data protection and information security 33 Textile Strategy status 34 Furniture Strategy status 64 Assurance statement 35 Paper Strategy status 66 GRI-G4 Content Index 68 Glossary U3 Imprint Otto Group Sustainability Report 2015 02 FOREWORD BY THE CR BOARD We intend to be judged against our claim to act responsibly. Otto Group CR Board NAME: Hans-Otto Schrader POSITION:  Chairman of the Executive Board and Chief Executive Officer Otto Group (CEO) NAME: Dr Michael Heller NAME: Hanjo Schneider POSITION: Member of the OTTO Management Board POSITION:  Member of the Executive Board, for Categories Services Otto Group Otto Group Sustainability Report 2015 FOREWORD BY THE CR BOARD 03 Dear Reader, We have long been convinced of the fundamental necessity It focuses on sustainability topics in the value chain, putting of structuring our business activities sustainably, regardless the spotlight on topics which pose the greatest environof the prevalent economic situation. Our principles become mental and social challenges. As CR Board members we especially evident when our company must unfortunately can be sure that through involving the Executive Directors report a loss, as it has for the 2014/15 financial year. of the Group companies in this committee, sustainabilityAmongst other factors, this was due to the planned revenue related decision papers are thoroughly reviewed to ensure shortfalls resulting from the restructuring of the business their feasibility and practical benefit. model of some of our subsidiaries. Furthermore, the Group has invested in its own future viability – investments that Our company is also taking a fresh approach with this will begin to pay off in the medium and long term. The Sustainability Report 2015 itself, in which the Group comcompany has invested in the digital transformation of its pany myToys is included for the first time. This breaks new ongoing activities and in establishing new business models ground, as our reporting is now in accordance with the new such as the multi-award winning start-up Collins. G4 version of the internationally respected Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) guidelines. At the same time, this publication We are also benefiting from our forward-looking approach also represents our Report on Progress in the implementation in terms of sustainability. Our deep-rooted understanding of the Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact. of ourselves as a responsibly acting group of companies enabled the Otto Group to achieve considerable progress The Otto Group’s many activities and achievements in in the reporting period. A further milestone in the ongoing the reporting period show that it is on the right path with development of our sustainability management process this approach – precisely in the spirit of the motto of this has been achieved thanks to impACT. Through this, the year’s report: The Way Ahead. In the reporting period the Otto Group is revolutionising the way in which it identifies company came another step closer to achieving the five the impact of its business activities on people and nature goals of its CR Strategy 2020. This Sustainability Report along the entire value chain, evaluates them, and then provides a detailed insight into our progress, complementderives efficient countermeasures. Our company has ing the information on sustainability provided in the Otto received much praise for this innovative approach. Indeed, Group’s Annual Report 2014/15. we were especially pleased to receive the German federal government’s CSR Award. We hope you find our report informative, and that you enjoy reading it. Within the Otto Group, the firm anchoring of the topic of sustainability goes hand in hand with unwavering support for the topic, both from the Group Executive Board and On behalf of the Executive Board, the Executive Boards of the Group companies. In 2014 an important new decision-making board was established to manage the Group’s CR activities: the Sustainable Supply Chain Management Board. Hans-Otto Schrader Hanjo Schneider Dr Michael Heller Otto Group Sustainability Report 2015 04 BUSINESS MODEL AND PROFILE OF THE OTTO GROUP Business model and profile of the 0tto Group At the heart of our vision and mission is our responsibility to people and nature. It is the foundation on which we build to achieve our business, social and environmental goals. As a component of our overarching Group strategy, the CR Strategy is derived from these goals. The Group can look back on 60 years of family ownership. S T R AT E G I E S I N T H E S E G M E N T S The businessman Dr Michael Otto has now transferred In the Multichannel Retail segment the further the majority of the shareholdings in the Group to a foundevelopment of e-commerce is a fundamental strategic dation under German civil law. goal, as the sales channel with the strongest growth and a major driver of future business. In terms of the further In financial year 2014/15 the Otto Group generated development of the various retailing business concepts, revenues of 12.1 bn€. The Multichannel Retail segment particular focus will be placed in future on the growth generated the largest share, at 9.9 bn€. area of the Group’s own brands. The use of over-thecounter channels will also be important, particularly The Otto Group’s business mandate specifies within for these business models, and the objective will be to which frameworks and guidelines sustainable, profitable integrate these with online and mobile activities in a business models are to be developed and implemented. way that creates added value. In conjunction with the vision and mission of the Otto Group, the business mandate forms the basis for develIn the Financial Services segment, financial year oping the Group strategy further. 2014/15 saw the Otto Group invest in companies such as Yapital which develop and offer innovative financial ’The Power of Responsibility’ mission embeds a set services. The focus in this segment is on the growth of of values, and calls upon employees to engage in profitservices relevant to the end-consumer. ability, innovation, diversity and sustainability issues. Services are becoming an increasingly significant factor G R O U P ST R AT E G Y in business activities with end-consumers. Under the The business mandate as well as the vision and mission Hermes umbrella brand, the Otto Group’s strategy in the place an emphasis on sustainability – whereby business Services segment places particular emphasis on B2C and goals are combined with social and environmental B2B customers. Besides speed, reliability and the transresponsibility. The Group strategy (see Otto Group parency of the supply chain, the Group places particular Annual Report 2014/15, p. 50 et seq.) is derived directly importance on service quality at all points of contact from this basis. It comprises three essential elements: with the end-consumer. The Group’s strong position as a strategies in the segments, the e-commerce strategy, provider of retail-related services is being expanded both and the strategy for complying with social and environin Germany and internationally in attractive e-commerce mental responsibility (CR Strategy 2020). These stratemarkets such as the United Kingdom. gies are transferred to the Group companies by means of portfolio management and other control mechanisms, and are therefore closely interlinked. The Group’s Executive Board is also incentivised to achieve both the business and Corporate Responsibility goals. Otto Group Sustainability Report 2015 BUSINESS MODEL AND PROFILE OF THE OTTO GROUP 05 Revenue by region (whole Group) G E R M A NY ST I L L T H E MOST in mn€ I M P O R TA N T S A L E S M A R K E T As in previous years, in financial year 2014/15 Germany 11,597 11,784 12,001 12,057 remained the most important sales market for the Otto Group, generating 59% of the Group’s revenue. The share of revenue generated by the other European countries was 28%. 6,752 7,064 7,139 6,666 S TA B L E E M P L O Y E E S T R U C T U R E In financial year 2014/15 the Otto Group’s employee headcount – converted to FTEs (full-time equivalents) – 3,513 3,472 3,488 3,369 was 54,037. The 14 Group companies included in this report employed 43% of the Group’s workforce. A detailed 1,172 1,316 1,262 1,366 246 244 187 183 breakdown of the employee structure can be found in the chapter Trade (see p. 53 et seq.). 2011/12 2012/13 2013/14 2014/15 Key operating figures Germany Europe* North and South America Asia in mn€ *without Germany. 2011/12 2012/13 2013/14 2014/15 Revenue Number of employees, rebased as full-time equivalents (FTEs) whole Group 11,597 11,784 12,001 12,057 Revenue reporting companies 6,107 6,254 6,596 6,897 53,103 53,823 54,257 54,037 Equity whole Group 2,000 1,910 2,022 1,620 Equity reporting companies 978 1,005 972 985 Profit/loss for the year whole Group 23 146 194 196 23,630 24,417 23,035 23,185 Revenue by business segment (whole Group) in mn€ 2011/12 2012/13 2013/14 2014/15 2011/12 2012/13 2013/14 2014/15 Multichannel Retail 10,035 10,057 10,017 9,918 Whole Group Reporting companies Financial Services 532 594 683 644 Services 1,030 1,133 1,301 1,495 Otto Group Sustainability Report 2015 06 PORTRAITS OF THE 14 REPORTING COMPANIES 82% Multichannel Retail revenue share G4 – 17 Multichannel Retail generates the largest share of the Otto Group’s revenue. It comprises Group companies which offer their products via the three distribution channels of e-commerce, print catalogues and over-the-counter retail. With a share of 65%, the internet is the most important sales channel. O V E R V I E W : Retailer of DIY products and market-leading mail-order retailer in this sector. H EADQUARTERS: Hamburg • E M P L O Y E E S : 172 • M A R K E T S : AT, CH, DE, NL • STOR ES: None • O T T O G R O U P ’ S S H A R E H O L D I N G : 50.1% • G R O U P C O M PA N Y C O V E R E D B Y T H I S S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T: baumarkt direkt GmbH & Co. KG • W E B S I T E S : www.baumarktdirekt.de, www.hagebau.de OVE RVI EW: E-commerce and retail-related services. H EADQUARTERS: Burgkunstadt • E M P L O Y E E S : 3,747 • M A R K E T S : AT, CH, DE • STOR ES: None • O T T O G R O U P ’ S S H A R E H O L D I N G : 49% • G R O U P C O M PA N I E S C O V E R E D B Y T H I S S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T : Baur Versand (GmbH & Co. KG), BFS Baur Fulfillment Solutions GmbH and Zweite Hermes TransStore Service GmbH & Co. KG • W E B S I T E : www.baur.de In 2015 BAUR published its own sustainability report. OVE RVI EW: Globally successful fashion retailer. H EADQUARTERS: Hamburg • E M P L O Y E E S : 1,425 • M A R K E T S : 27 countries • STOR ES: 53 in Germany and a further 13 in Austria, Switzerland and Italy • O T T O G R O U P ’ S S H A R E H O L D I N G : 100 % • G R O U P C O M PA N I E S C O V E R E D B Y T H I S S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T : bonprix Handelsgesellschaft mbH, bonprix retail GmbH • W E B S I T E : company.bonprix.de O V E R V I E W : Retailer of equipment for hunters, sports marksmen and collectors as well as premium fashion articles. H EADQUARTERS: Rottendorf • E M P L O Y E E S : 550 • M A R K E T S : AT, CH, DE, FR • STOR ES: 23 plus two outlets in Germany and two stores in France • O T T O G R O U P ’ S S H A R E H O L D I N G : 100% • G R O U P CO M PA N Y COV E R E D BY T H I S S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT: Frankonia Handels GmbH & Co. KG • W E B S I T E : www.frankonia.de Otto Group Sustainability Report 2015 PORTRAITS OF THE 14 REPORTING COMPANIES 07 OVE RVI EW: Retailer of premium fashion articles and furnishings. H EADQUARTERS: Karlsruhe • E M P L O Y E E S : 572 • M A R K E T S : AT, CH, DE, FR, NL • S T O R E S : None • O T T O G R O U P ’ S S H A R E H O L D I N G : 100% • G R O U P C O M PA N Y C O V E R E D B Y T H I S S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T : Heinrich Heine GmbH • W E B S I T E : www.heine.de G4 – 17 New reporting company G4 – 23 D E S C R I P T I O N : myToys.de GmbH is headquartered in Berlin. Under the myToys brand it operates Germany’s leading online shop for toys and children’s products as well as 13 stores by the same name. The extensive assortment of the myToys online shop ranges from maternity wear, baby clothes, and toys, to children’s clothes and books for school leavers. The ‘Tipps und Kaufberatung’ (‘Tips and Shopping Advice’) section on myToys.de supports parents and children in finding suitable products and provides information on health and safety aspects. Besides myToys, the brands ambellis (womenswear) and mirapodo (footwear) also belong to myToys.de GmbH. Thanks to the multi-shop concept, customers can buy from all three online shops using a single customer account. The offering of all three online shops almost exclusively comprises external brands. This means myToys only has an indirect influence on its products’ production conditions. H E A D Q U A R T E R S : Berlin • E M P L O Y E E S : 1,189 • M A R K E T : DE (delivery to all EU member states and Switzerland) • S T O R E S : 13 in Germany • O T T O G R O U P ’ S S H A R E H O L D I N G : 74.8% • G R O U P C O M PA N I E S C O V E R E D B Y T H I S S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T : myToys.de GmbH, myToys Logistik GmbH • W E B S I T E : www.myToys.de O V E R V I E W : Germany’s largest online retailer of fashion and lifestyle products. H E A D Q U A R T E R S : Hamburg • E M P L O Y E E S : 5,231 • M A R K E T S : AT, CZ, DE, HU, NL, RU, SK • S T O R E S : None • G R O U P C O M PA N Y C O V E R E D B Y T H I S S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T : Otto (GmbH & Co. KG) • W E B S I T E : www.otto.com The employee number is a headcount and is not rebased to full-time equivalents (FTEs). It includes employees on indefinite contracts, as well as working students at the companies covered by this Sustainability Report as at the end of 2014. Otto Group Sustainability Report 2015 08 PORTRAITS OF THE 14 REPORTING COMPANIES O V E R V I E W : Mail-order retailer specialising in office equipment, communications technology and office furniture. H EADQUARTERS: Hamburg • EMPLOYEES : 307 • M A R K E T S : BE, DE • S T O R E S : None • OT TO G RO U P ’S S H A R E H O L D I N G: 100% • G R O U P C O M PA N Y C O V E R E D B Y G4 – 17 T H I S S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T : OTTO Office GmbH & Co KG • W E B S I T E : www.otto-office.com O V E R V I E W : Mail-order retailer with a large selection of fashion trends, consumer electronics and household products. sheego – a Schwab Versand GmbH brand – specialises in young, fashionconscious women from size 40 (UK size 16) and upwards. H EADQUARTERS: Hanau • EMPLOYEES : 1,052 • M A R K E T S : Exports to 21 countries • STOR ES: Several shop-in-shop stores • O T T O G R O U P ’ S S H A R E H O L D I N G : : 99.98% • G R O U P C O M PA N Y C O V E R E D B Y T H I S S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T : SCHWAB VERSAND GmbH • W E B S I T E S : www.schwab.de, www.sheego.de OVE RVI EW: Germany’s leading multichannel retailer of sports goods. H EADQUARTERS: Munich • E M P L O Y E E S : 1,615 • M A R K E T S : DE, AT, CH • STOR ES: 19 in Germany • O T T O G R O U P ’ S S H A R E H O L D I N G : 100% • G R O U P C O M PA N Y C O V E R E D B Y T H I S S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T : SportScheck GmbH • W E B S I T E : www.sportscheck.com O V E R V I E W : Largest multichannel mail-order group in the Alpine region. Through its multibrand strategy it optimally serves assorted markets and various customer requirements. H EADQUARTERS: Salzburg • EMPLOYEES : 645 • MARKETS: AT, CH, CZ, DE, IT SK, HU • STO R E S: None • OT TO G RO U P ’S S H A R E H O L D I N G: 67.87% • G R O U P C O M PA N Y C O V E R E D B Y T H I S S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T : UNITO Versand & Dienstleistungen GmbH • W E B S I T E : www.unito.at O V E R V I E W : Mail-order retailer of clothing, underwear and home textiles for customers over the age of 50. H E A D Q U A R T E R S : Weiden • E M P L O Y E E S : 2,662 • M A R K E T S : In 10 countries in Europe as well as Russia and Kazakhstan • S T O R E S : Approx. 115 in Germany • O T T O G R O U P ’ S S H A R E H O L D I N G : 99.98% • G R O U P C O M PA N I E S C O V E R E D B Y T H I S S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T : Sieh an! Handelsgesellschaft mbH, AMBRIA GmbH, Creation L Handelsgesellschaft mbH, Josef Witt GmbH • W E B S I T E : www.witt-gruppe.eu Otto Group Sustainability Report 2015 PORTRAITS OF THE 14 REPORTING COMPANIES 09 Services 13% revenue share The Services segment comprises all the services of the retail logistics G4 – 17 value chain – from sourcing, through quality testing, transportation and warehousing, to final delivery to business and private customers. O V E R V I E W : International supply-chain service provider that covers the entire service spectrum along the retail value chain – from the sourcing of products to distribution to the end-customer. H E A D Q U A R T E R S : Hamburg • E M P L O Y E E S : 8,972 • M A R K E T S : AT, DE, GB, IT, RU • S T O R E S : Over 36,000 ParcelShops in Europe, of which approx. 14,000 are in Germany • O T T O G R O U P ’ S S H A R E H O L D I N G : 100% • G R O U P C O M PA N I E S C O V E R E D B Y T H I S S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T : Hermes Europe GmbH, Hermes Logistik Gruppe Deutschland GmbH, Hermes Einrichtungs Service GmbH, Hermes Transport Logistics GmbH, Hermes Fulfilment GmbH • W E B S I T E : www.hermesworld.com In 2015 Hermes published its own sustainability report. Financial Services 5% revenue share The Financial Services segment covers the Otto Group’s international financial services offering, focusing on retail-related services such as receivables management and consumer loans. O V E R V I E W : One of the leading international providers of individually tailored financial services, with a focus on receivables management. H E A D Q U A R T E R S : Hamburg • E M P L O Y E E S : 1,842 • M A R K E T S : Over 50 companies in 26 countries in Europe, America and Asia • O T T O G R O U P ’ S S H A R E H O L D I N G : 100% • G R O U P C O M PA N I E S C O V E R E D B Y T H I S S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T : EOS DID – EOS Deutscher Inkasso-Dienst, EOS KSI Inkasso Deutschland and 13 further companies • W E B S I T E : www.eos-solutions.com The employee number is a headcount and is not rebased to full-time equivalents (FTEs). It includes employees on indefinite contracts, as well as working students at the companies covered by this Sustainability Report as at the end of 2014. Otto Group Sustainability Report 2015 10 THE OTTO GROUP’S VALUE CHAIN The 0tto Group’s value chain The complexity of the value chain poses the greatest challenge to our sustainability management. Arranging the chain into four value-adding stages helps the Otto Group to better understand the Group’s environmental and social impacts, and derive strategic measures. For companies, the greatest share of their business Moreover, another factor is the increasing range of articles activities’ environmental and social impacts often lies offered by the Otto Group to provide its customers with beyond the factory gates – far removed from their own the largest possible selection of goods. The result is a locations and shipments. Consequently, the sustainability vast network of actors which becomes progressively management of the Otto Group consider the entire value more opaque the more comprehensively the upstream chain. Its incredible complexity represents the greatest supply chain is taken into consideration. challenge to effective and efficient sustainability management, as the Group companies’ own brands are produced To reduce complexity, the Otto Group arranges the value by suppliers in over 70 sourcing markets. Overall, they work chain into four stages as part of its sustainability managewith many thousands of their own subsuppliers, who in ment process: Raw Materials & Processing, Final Production, turn contract out to subcontractors. Trade, and Customer. The illustration at right shows the value chain using cotton textiles as an example. In the first The second stage, The transportation The final stage, value-adding stage, Final Production, of the goods from Customer, comprises Raw Materials & involves sewing the country of the overall phase Processing, cotton the cloth fabric production to the of the use of the is harvested, the into clothing sales market takes product by the endfibres are spun for instance, place in the Trade consumer as well into yarn, then and packaging the value-adding stage. as its disposal or either woven or finished products Once in the sales recycling at the knitted, and then ready for shipment. market, the products end of its useful finished to make are first warehoused. life. a cloth fabric. When ordered, they are delivered to the end-customer. Otto Group Sustainability Report 2015 THE OTTO GROUP’S VALUE CHAIN 11 Process stages based on textiles Raw Materials & Processing Raw Material Extraction Spinning Yarn Weaving & Knitting Refinement Final Production Sewing Finishing & Packaging Trade Transport Warehousing Sales Distribution Customer Use Disposal & Recycling By arranging the chain into these four value-adding an account of the ecological and social impacts of the stages, the Otto Group’s Sustainability Report 2015 Group’s business activities as well as their evaluation by reflects the Group’s integrated sustainability management stakeholders. This forms the basis for agreeing strategic process for the first time. Furthermore, the report provides goals and measures to mitigate the impacts identified. Otto Group Sustainability Report 2015 12 SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT PROCESS impACT Sustainability management process impACT We fundamentally realigned our sustainability management in 2013: Our company now identifies and evaluates the impact of its business activities on people and nature along the whole value chain. This provides a sound decision-making foundation and allows us to configure the sustainable orientation of our business model in an efficient and effective way. The Otto Group’s impACT sustainability management process enables the company to focus its financial and impACT as the basis for employee resources where these have the most leverage. reporting according to the This clear orientation towards effectiveness and efficiency, Guidelines of the Global as well as taking business relevance and risks into account, Reporting Initiative (GRI) is a milestone in anchoring professional sustainability The impACT sustainability management management at the heart of the Group’s business activity. process is also used to determine the The process is based on a quantitative and qualitative scope of the Otto Group’s sustainability evaluation of the ecological and social impacts of our comreporting. The process of determining material topics (see impACT Step 1) corpanies’ business activities along the whole value chain. responds to the GRI Reporting Principles In turn, the assessments serve as a basis for developing for selecting report contents: inclusion strategic targets and operational measures. The impACT of stakeholders, sustainability context, materiality and completeness. management process was introduced in March 2013. Sustainability topics that cannot be G4 – 18 The German federal government acknowledged the measured in terms of either environmenG4 – 26 Otto Group’s sustainability management with tal impacts or social risks do not form part of the impACT process. Besides its CSR Award in September 2014, with a particular employee issues that go beyond social reference to impACT. risks, this also includes governance topics such as anti-corruption. These are also incorporated into the Group’s  The term ‘impACT’ was coined to signify that the management reporting under the materiality perspecprocess both identifies effects (‘impact’) and generates tive, but not as a result of the impACT measures (‘act’). process. Otto Group Sustainability Report 2015 SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT PROCESS impACT 13 The three steps of impACT – an overview 1. 2. 3. Carry out a Develop measures Implement measures Materiality Analysis and carry out under the umbrella a cost-benefit of the CR Strategy assessment Ben e to fit env iro Quantitative Assessment and nm – l o w er e soc iet ent y CR Strategy 2020 – lo w c o lo er so g ic a c ia l l im p 100% sustainable cotton r is k s act I n n o vat i o n P r i o r i ty Ben e 100% FSC® furniture fit 50% FSC® paper to the – lo O tto wer Gro 100% Social Programme and risk up s to bus I n a c t i ve Base – m arke i n e s re p u t a t –50% CO2 t s ac ti ion ima in g op v ge b port ity + … … oost unit ies, Co s t to the – i n Ott Stakeholder Evaluation ve o G – p e s t m e n rou ts p rson nel co s t s Controlling measures Otto Group Sustainability Report 2015 14 SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT PROCESS impACT 1. G4 – 18 impACT STEP 1: M AT E R I A L I T Y A N A LY S I S Quantitative identification of external costs and risks  The Otto Group Materiality Analysis encompasses a Ecological and social impacts are identified along the quantitative analysis of the ecological impacts and four value-adding stages. Ecological impacts are addisocial risks arising from its business activities on the tionally allocated to four distinct impact categories: one hand, and on the other a qualitative stakeholder Greenhouse Gases, Pollutants, Water Consumption and assessment of these challenges. These are visualised Land Use. Social impacts are shown in the Social Risks in the two-dimensional Materiality Matrix (see diagram, impact category (see info box). p. 18) – subdivided into the four value-adding stages of Raw Materials & Processing, Final Production, Trade and Customer (see pp. 10 onwards). The four ecological impact categories and their most significant effects Greenhouse gas emissions such as carbon dioxide (CO2), Greenhouse Gases methane (CH4) and nitrous oxide (N2O) as well as their effects on global warming, people and nature. Pollutant influx (NH3, SOx, NOx, heavy metals, fine Pollutants particulates, dioxins, NMVOC, formaldehyde, toxic organic substances) into water and air, as well as their effect on human health and biodiversity. Consumption of surface and ground water along the whole value Water Consumption chain, as well as the associated effects on human health and biodiversity. Land consumption, e.g. through agriculture and forestry, pasture as well as industrial land use (incl. buildings, Land Use roads, land sealing) and their negative impact on ecological systems’ integrity. The impact category Social Risks and its underlying criteria A meta-indicator which includes criteria in the areas of Social Risks occupational safety, child labour, forced labour, wages, working times, discrimination and social dialogue. The calculation is based on the ‘estell’ model developed by the Group’s internal consultancy company, Systain Consulting  GmbH. ‘estell’ is a multi-regional, multi-sector input/output model augmented with environmental and social factors, based on the Exiobase database. Among the scientifically validated data sources used are NEEDS, TEEB and statistics from the World Bank and the ILO. Otto Group Sustainability Report 2015 SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT PROCESS impACT 15 To make the various impacts along the value chain The calculated figures contain the impacts and social G4 – 18 comparable, ecological impacts are assessed in terms risks that arise from the production, transport and utiliof external costs (in euros) and social impacts in Risk sation of all goods traded or used by the Otto Group, working hours. as well as all services that it has used. In addition, the identified values also contain indirect effects, some of Identifying ecological impacts: which lie far beyond those the Otto Group is able to For the calculation of ecological impacts, the Otto influence. As an example, a share of the energy and Group combines its purchasing and sales figures with resource costs of the manufacture of sewing machines data from external data sources regarding the effects for textile production is included in the figures. on ecosystems and on human health. For example, clothing manufactured in China causes 1.05 kg of CO2 on average per euro of sourcing volume. Taking a sourcing volume of 1 mn€ as an example, this would The Otto Group’s influence generate an average of 1,050 tonnes of CO2. According on external impacts to the German Federal Environment Agency (UmweltQuantitatively determined external costs bundesamt), the underlying external costs of one tonne and risks correspond to current average of CO2 currently amount to €87. Therefore, for this economic activities; the identified values in euros and Risk working hours example in the Final Production value-adding stage, are based on average, region-specific €91,350 of external costs would arise due to the emisecological impacts and social risks of sion of greenhouse gases. products and services that correspond to the Otto Group’s business models. If other companies with the same business Identifying social impacts: model, the same sourcing markets and the To show Risk working hours, the Otto Group determines same purchasing volume carried out this calculation, they would arrive at very the countryand sector-specific risks that working hours similar results. could have been performed in breach of minimum standards. This risk is identified using seven criteria relating Improvement measures in the Otto Group – to working conditions and human rights (see info box on such as the use of sustainable cotton – have not yet been taken into account in p. 14). For example, if 10 million working hours are perthe values identified. The figures shown formed in textile production in a particular country, and here rather represent a baseline value the risk calculated for the country and sector amounts against which the Otto Group will be able to measure its reduction of negato 40%, this results in 4 million Risk working hours. tive external impacts. Results The calculations of ecological effects and social risks also include, for example, The calculation, which was last carried out in January effects from third-party brands, and 2015, showed ecological impacts amounting to more additionally indirect effects such as than 20% of turnover. At 70% the highest proportion by the energy and resource costs of manufar of ecological impacts was in the Raw Materials & facturing sewing machines (see above). Therefore, even if the Otto Group achieves Processing value-adding stage. The highest external its CR Strategy targets completely, the costs here are caused by Pollutants, followed by Greenidentified external impacts will only be house Gas emissions and Water Consumption. In Risk partially reducable. working hours, at 64% the largest share is also due to the extraction and processing of raw materials, while just under a third of Social Risks arise from Final Production (see diagram, p. 16). Otto Group Sustainability Report 2015 16 SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT PROCESS impACT Overview of the ecological impacts and the social risks arising from the Otto Group’s business model Value-adding stages Raw Materials Final Production Trade Customer & Processing Ecological impacts 70% 6% 5% 19% Greenhouse Gases Pollutants Five impact Water Consumption categories Land Use Social 64% 30% 6% Not Risks relevant Ecological impacts Social Risks G4 – 18 Stakeholder Evaluation The topic areas encompass one of the five impact cateG4 – 26 In addition to this quantitative assessment (y-axis), the gories in one of the four value-adding stages (e.g. CO2 Otto Group’s Internal and External Stakeholders carried emissions due to transport in the Trade value-adding out a qualitative evaluation from June to October 2014 stage). In this assessment, the Group includes four per(x-axis) for the individual topic areas (see diagram, p. 18). spectives from External and Internal Stakeholders, with Topic areas refer to the effects by impact category and regard to developments in the next two to five years value-adding stage. respectively: Otto Group Sustainability Report 2015 SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT PROCESS impACT 17  xternal Stakeholders formulated their E Stakeholder Evaluation weighting G4 – 18 Expectations towards the Otto Group as part of G4 – 26 a workshop. Twelve experts from the spheres of 50% 50% science and research, non-governmental organisaInternal Stakeholders External Stakeholders tions and government assessed the action priorities for the Otto Group in the topic areas. For example, 16.7% the stakeholders had high expectations of the Otto Business Activity Group regarding the reduction of CO2 emissions in the Trade value-adding stage. 50% Expectations An internal assessment of Reputation opportu­ 16.7% of External Stakeholders nities and risks for the Otto Group with regard to Regulation the topic areas mentioned was carried out by representatives of the Group Divisions CR and Corporate Communications. Social risks in Final Production were assigned the highest relevance to reputation. 16.7% Reputation The implementation of new environmental and social legislation in sourcing and sales markets leads to costs for the Otto Group, due to required changes Combined quantitative and in sourcing processes or higher costs of upstream qualitative assessment products, for example. To estimate these Regulation The Otto Group’s Materiality Matrix results from comrisks, first the likelihood is determined of whether bining external costs and social risks with the Stakeregulations will be put in place that are relevant to holder Evaluation. This shows the topic areas. All values the Otto Group business model. These likelihoods are are converted to a scale running from 1 (very low) to linked with estimated costs that would arise for the 10 (very high), so that they can be placed in relation Otto Group if such regulations were put in place. For to each other. Depending on where the topic areas fall example, the Otto Group is most affected by regulaon the matrix, they are allocated to one of four strategy tions in China, since this is where more than threetypes (see p. 18 et seq.). On this basis, strategic targets quarters of its sourcing volume originates; and in the and operational measures are derived (impACT Step 2), EU, since this is the Otto Group’s largest distribution which are implemented under the umbrella of the market by far. CR Strategy (impACT Step 3). In future, the Otto Group will carry out a corresponding Materiality Analysis every Finally, the members of the Sustainable Supply Chain two years. Management Board (see p. 23) assess each of the topic areas with regard to their relevance to the Business Activities of the Otto Group, taking into account both potential financial risks and potential business opportunities. With a view to the upcoming five years, in particular topics in the valueadding stages Raw Materials & Processing and Final Production were considered to be material, as rising costs due to increased CR activities are to be expected here. Otto Group Sustainability Report 2015 18 SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT PROCESS impACT G4 – 18 Materiality Matrix with the topic areas G4 – 27 Pollutants Social Risks Value-adding y-axis very stages high Raw Materials & I n n o vat i o n P r i o r i ty Processing Greenhouse Gases Final Production Quantitative Assessment Water Consumption Trade Pollutants Social Risks Customer in EUR or Risk working hours Impact Greenhouse Gases categories Inactive Land Use Base Greenhouse Gases Pollutants Social Risks Water Consumption Greenhouse Gases Pollutants Land Use Water Consumption Greenhouse Gases very Land Use Pollutants very Water Consumption Social Risks low high Land Use x-axis 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 The effects by impact category and value-adding stage represent Stakeholder Evaluation (50% external, 50% internal) the topic areas. 2. Strategic Allocation Based on the Materiality Analysis, the topic areas are allocated to four strategy types according to their quantitative and qualitative assessment: Priority: Topic areas with a high ecological impact  impACT STEP 2: DERIVING TA R G E T S A N D M E A S U R E S and/or high social risks and a high degree of action relevance attributed by the stakeholders (e.g. water consumption during raw material extraction and processing). When setting targets and measures, For the second step of the impACT management process, these are the main focus. topic areas are initially classified strategically. With the Innovation: Topic areas with high ecological impact  help of this classification, appropriate targets and meaand/or high social risks, but which stakeholders do sures can be developed for the individual topic areas. All not (yet) see as particularly relevant to the Otto potential measures are first subjected to a cost/benefit Group. They hold potential for innovative measures. assessment. This ensures that the Otto Group mitigates Base: Topic areas with relatively low ecological  ecological impacts and/or social risks as efficiently as impacts and/or low social risks, to which stakeholders possible and can take the various Stakeholder Perspechave, however, allocated a high degree of relevance tives into account as effectively as possible. (e.g. emission of greenhouse gases a  t own locations Otto Group Sustainability Report 2015 SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT PROCESS impACT 19 and during transport). Corresponding measures With the help of this cost/benefit analysis the Group therefore aim primarily at lowering reputation and also reviewed the five sub-strategies agreed as part of regulation risks. the CR Strategy 2020 (see p. 20 et seq.), both with regard  Inactive: Topic areas with low external impacts to their contribution towards reducing ecological impacts and low action relevance (e.g. water consumption and/or social risks, and with regard to the Stakeholder at own locations and during transport). Due to a Evaluation that had meanwhile been carried out more low level of materiality, these topic areas are not systematically. The result was that all sub-strategies the focus of Group management. have been evaluated as material and effective, and will continue to be implemented. Cost-benefit analysis In accordance with their strategic allocation, potential measures are developed for the topic areas, which are 3. then subjected to a cost/benefit analysis. The assessment of measures encompasses three components: firstly, it is determined to what extent the respective measure is capable of mitigating ecological impacts and/or social risks. Secondly, this is contrasted with estimated costs to the Otto Group which would arise from implementing this measure, such as investments or personnel costs. Finally, the assessment considers impACT STEP 3: I M P L E M E N T I N G T H E C R S T R AT E G Y any benefit which would arise for the Otto Group, for example due to a reduction in reputation and regulation The potential measures evaluated as material and effective risks or due to marketing opportunities. in Step 2 are discussed by the Sustainable Supply Chain Management Board (see p. 23) and adjusted where Assortment-specific evaluations show a high degree necessary. Afterwards, they are submitted to the CR of social and ecological impacts in textile production. Board and/or the Group Executive Board for a decision. Therefore, the Otto Group initially concentrated on develIf implementation of a measure is approved, then manoping a comprehensive Textile Strategy that takes all aging target achievement falls under the umbrella of relevant fibres and all value-adding stages into account, the CR Strategy 2020 (see p. 20 et seq.). In the third and in addition to the existing cotton target (100% sustainable final step of the impACT management process, the Otto cotton in own and licensed brands, see p. 21). Group thereby integrates the knowledge gained from the Materiality Matrix and cost/benefit assessment into its strategic approach in a long-term and effective way. Notes on the Materiality Matrix While impACT makes it possible to compare the various ecological impacts with each other, no relationship can be established between these and the social risks. However, they are shown together in the one Materiality Matrix to provide a better overview. The maximum value on the y-axis was allocated to those topic areas with the highest ecological impacts or the highest social risks. The challenges arising from the Materiality Analysis are presented at the start of each chapter on value-adding stages, which begin on p. 29.: Raw Materials & Processing, Final Production, Trade and Customer. Otto Group Sustainability Report 2015 20 CR STRATEGY 2020 CR Strategy 2020 The management and implementation of measures under the umbrella of the CR Strategy 2020 represent the third and final step of our impACT management process. The CR Strategy aims at lowering the negative impacts on people and nature along the value chain, lessening risks for the Otto Group and utilising business and reputation opportunities. Raw Materials & Processing Final Production Trade Customer Since 2014, the CR Strategy has been a fixed component The CR Strategy 2020 was approved by the Otto Group of the overall Otto Group strategy (see p. 4). It encomExecutive Board in 2012 and is valid until the end of passes five substrategies which are allocated to the 2020. It is intended to contribute to the more sustainvalue-adding stage in which they have the greatest able alignment of the Otto Group and its companies’ effect: Strategies for Textiles, Furniture and Paper aim business processes. at saving resources when extracting and processing raw materials, while the Social Programme focuses on comStatus CR Strategy 2020 pliance with social standards among suppliers in Final in % Production. With its Climate Strategy, the Otto Group Target Value-adding value intends to improve its CO2 balance in the Trade valuestages Sub-strategy 2013 2014 2020 adding Stage, which includes sourcing and distribution Textile 7 11 100 transports alongside its own locations. The ecological Furniture 26 33 100 impacts of product use and disposal by customers are not Raw Materials & Processing Paper 8 18 50 currently part of the Group-wide CR Strategy. Activities Social in the Customer value-adding stage are carried out by Final Production Programme – 17 100 individual Group companies and are presented in the Trade Climate 17 24 50 chapter of the same name (see p. 59 et seq.). Otto Group Sustainability Report 2015 CR STRATEGY 2020 21 t achieve ge Ta nt in 20 r Paper Strategy TARGET: 50% FSC-certified paper 18% me for catalogues (gravure printing) 14 With its Paper Strategy, the Otto Group will increase R AW M AT E R I A L S & P R O C E S S I N G the share of FSC-certified paper to at least 50% for cataThe majority of the Otto Group’s ecological impact arises logues and advertising materials by the year 2018. This from the extraction and processing of raw materials. includes products manufactured in the gravure printing The Group is countering this challenge with three process, which makes up about two-thirds of the total sub-strategies, all of which aim at more sustainable paper volume for the reporting companies. Overall, agriculture and forestry. the paper volume used for catalogues and advertising materials by the reporting companies came to around For detailed information about the Otto Group’s 264,000 tonnes in 2014. This makes the Otto Group one sub-strategies and progress, please see the chapter on of the largest paper consumers in German-speaking Raw Materials & Processing from p. 29 onwards. t achieve countries. For several years, the Otto Group has been ge Ta a pioneer in the use of FSC-certified print materials, a nt in 20 r Textile Strategy 11% me position it intends to consolidate. TARGET: 100% sustainable cotton in own and licensed 14 brands The Otto Group intends to switch the entire volume of cotton used for its own and licensed brands to sustainably cultivated cotton by 2020. Currently, it uses cotton FINAL PRODUCTION from the Cotton made in Africa (CmiA) initiative as well Final Production of merchandising goods by suppliers as from certified organic cultivation. Compared with causes a significant part of the social risks. In this valuethe conventional resourceand CO2-intensive cultivation adding stage, the Otto Group focuses on auditing and process, CmiA saves around 2,100 litres of water and qualifying factories to improve working conditions. 40% CO2 per kilogramme of cotton produced. t achieve ge For detailed information on the Otto Group’s Social Ta nt in 20 r Programme and progress, please see the chapter on Final Furniture Strategy 33% Production from p. 37 onwards. TARGET: 100% FSC-certified me furniture products 14 t achieve Social Programme Ta ge nt in 20 r Wooden furniture is one of the largest durable goods TARGET: 100% integration ranges for Group companies besides electronics. The of suppliers of own and 17% me Otto Group aims to completely switch its range of licensed brands 14 wooden furniture to FSC®-certified articles by 2020. The Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) is committed to The Otto Group Social Programme, which was expanded protecting forests through responsible felling and the in 2013, consists of three levels: by the end of 2015, associated conservation of biodiversity. all suppliers with factories in risk countries will be integrated in the programme at the Basic Programme level. The second level is a Development Programme for selected factories. The third level, the Excellence Programme, targets the integrated qualification of suppliers and includes environmental and economic aspects alongside the social ones.  previously the Durable Goods Strategy Otto Group Sustainability Report 2015 22 CR STRATEGY 2020 In 2013, myToys was integrated into the sustainability reporting process. This Group company had already participated in both of the sub-strategies assessed as relevant to its business: the Social Programme and the Climate Strategy. For the 2015/ 16 financial year, the TRADE inclusion of Freemans Grattan Holdings and Eddie Bauer The Trade value-adding stage includes the impacts of Japan as well as all major foreign companies belonging the Otto Group’s business activities at its own locations to the Hermes and bonprix groups is planned. as well as of its sourcing and distribution transport. There is a significant lever here for more sustainability Group companies are responsible for implementing in the reduction of the greenhouse gas CO2. the sub-strategies and augment these with their own activities in accordance with the specific requirements For detailed information about the Otto Group’s Climate of their business models and the expectations of their Strategy and progress, please see the chapter on Trade from stakeholders. p. 45 onwards. t achieve THE RIGHT INCENTIVES ge Ta nt in 20 Climate Strategy r Since the 2014/15 financial year, the annual variable -24% me TARGET: 50% reduction of remuneration of all members of the Group Executive CO 2 emissions 14 Board has been linked to achieving the five targets of CR Strategy 2020. These targets are weighted The Otto Group Climate Strategy aims to halve Group according to materiality criteria and summarised companies’ CO2 emissions by 2020 – whether caused in a CR Strategy Index. by locations, transport or mobility – compared to the 2006 base year. This should be done as efficiently and The target economically as possible, primarily through increasing energy efficiency. The operational implementation of the required measures is done decentrally in the individual Group companies. achievement values of E X PA N D I N G T H E S C O P E Since 2013, the ‘Scope of the CR Strategy’ procedural CR Strategy 2020 framework has determined which Otto Group companies are included in the implementation of CR Strategy 2020. are components In addition, it sets specific relevance thresholds for every sub-strategy: once companies exceed these, they are of variable integrated in the sub-strategy. For example, Group companies are required to contribute towards achieving the Executive Board remuneration. Furniture Strategy targets once they generate more than 10 mn€ revenue in the furniture product group. Otto Group Sustainability Report 2015 CR ORGANISATIONAL STRUCTURES 23 CR organisational structures The various challenges along the value chain, such as protecting the climate and conserving resources, as well as responsibility for working standards in the supply chain, require an integrated approach. We not only respond to this with the impACT management process, we have also established an organisational structure that integrates employees from different functions and Group companies. Responsibility for sustainable action in the Otto Group They hold an executive management function for lies with the Group Executive Board. The central current projects and prepare decisions for the CR Board. committee for preparing strategic CR decisions is the Due to its cross-company composition, the SSCM Board CR Board, which was created in 2012 and is led by the forms a bridge between the divisions with operational Chairman of the Executive Board. Other permanent responsibility and the CR Board. members are the Group Board Member for Services, as well as the OTTO Management Board Member for The Group CR Division holds responsibility for content Categories since the start of 2014, who supplements preparation and facilitates SSCM Board meetings, the existing body particularly in his function as overall which take place four to five times a year. Head of Purchasing at the Group’s largest trading company, OTTO. The committee meets two to three C R C O O R D I N AT O R S I N K E Y R O L E S times a year. The Otto Group is decentrally organised. The Managing Directors of individual Group companies are responsible Since the 2014/15 financial year, the variable remu­ for meeting CR targets and for implementing sustainneration for the Otto Group Executive Board has also ability activities in their companies. The CR Coordinators been linked to the degree of target achievement in the in the Group companies have a key role to play here: CR Strategy (see p. 20). they support their company management in managing the relevant CR activities, initiate new measures, manage S U STA I N A B L E S U P P LY C H A I N the capture of key figures and therefore represent the M A N AG E M E N T B OA R D I M P L E M E N T E D interface to the Group CR Division. OTTO and Hermes With the Sustainable Supply Chain Management Board have established their own CR management bodies, (SSCM Board), another body was created in April 2014 which decide and organise the implementation of CR which examines sustainability topics in the supply chain activities and include Board Members, Directors and from an integrated perspective. The committee currently Divisional Managers. consists of six Managing Directors and Directors from the Group companies bonprix, Hermes, OTTO and Witt, as well as the sourcing company Hermes-OTTO International. The SSCM Board Chairman is the Director of the Group CR Division. The members of this committee debate and decide in the interest of all Group companies on sustainability related topics in the value chain. Otto Group Sustainability Report 2015 24 CR ORGANISATIONAL STRUCTURES GROUP CR DIVISION SETS advises individual Group companies on implementing S T R AT E G I C F R A M E W O R K the CR Strategy. Among the central tasks for the Group The Otto Group CR Division fulfills a Group-wide advisory CR Division are also controlling stakeholder manageand management function within the organisation. It ment and sustainability reporting, as well as networkoperates as a change leader and takes responsibility for ing and knowledge transfer between the Otto Group the development and planning of Group-wide strateand the Group companies. In 2014 a meeting took place gies and pilot projects. In addition, it makes available to present and discuss the impACT management process measurement tools for planning and management and with the CR Coordinators of the Group companies. Otto Group CR Organisation Group Executive Board CR Board (led by the Chairman of the Group Executive Board) Corporate Division Corporate Sustainable Supply Chain Management (SSCM) Board Responsibility (CR) Group companies Company Executive Boards CR Coordinators CR CONTROLLI NG R O L L O U T F U R T H E R D E L AY E D The core tools for managing sustainability processes In 2011, a Corporate Responsibility Rollout was launched in the Otto Group are the CR Database, and the Supply to make CR management more consistent across the Chain Database (SC Database) which was implemented Group and to include all major international companies. in January 2015. Through both of these systems the key Progress towards this target once again fell short of figures are recorded with which the implementation expectations in the reporting period. Instead, a topicprogress of CR targets and the effectiveness of measures specific rollout of sub-strategies at individual Group taken can be reviewed and compared. The reporting companies took place. Besides an increased degree of companies enter employee and assortment data, as well decentralisation in the Group, the reason for this is the as climate and environmental figures, in the CR Database varying economic development of foreign subsidiaries on an annual basis. Key figures for measuring and man(see Otto Group Annual Report 2014/15, p. 59 et seq.). aging the Social Programme are determined every six With myToys, all significant companies in the Germanmonths from the SC Database. Through its interfaces, speaking region are now integrated in the CR Strategy it brings together data from various systems and from (see p. 20 et seq.). Likewise, Hermes UK is now integrated manual entries, such as those made by auditors. For and will be fully included from the next reporting cycle, example, it enables the viewing of audit results for facas are bonprix’ foreign companies in France, Poland and tories and the status of suppliers regarding the Social Italy, and Venus in the US. In future, Freemans Grattan Programme. Every six months, the Otto Group Executive Holding in the UK and Eddie Bauer Japan will also be Board receives a report on the development of strategic added. The full integration of Crate & Barrel (USA), Otto CR targets and measures to achieve them. Group Russia, and the 3Suisses Group (France) has been deferred by the Group Executive Board until at least 2016. Otto Group Sustainability Report 2015 CR ORGANISATIONAL STRUCTURES 25 G O O D C O R P O R AT E G O V E R N A N C E In the two-year reporting period, four complaints were AN D COMPLIANCE received regarding anti-competitive behaviour; of these, The Otto Group has more than 50,000 employees and two were related to suspected trademark violations of is active worldwide. It is conscious of the fact that in a test seal. The four complaints in the area of consumer complying with international laws and guidelines, conprotection referred to the unauthorised sending of newsflicts of interests and standards can arise that bear risks. letters and an unsolicited advertising call. All 13 of the As a significant component of the Compliance Managecomplaints submitted in the reporting period regarding ment System currently in place across the Group, the the violation of diversity and equal opportunities origiCompliance Committee ensures compliance with national nated from the same person, who felt discriminated and international laws as well as the Group’s own internal against in the online application process. directives. It is composed of officers from relevant Group departments such as Law, Data Protection, Internal Audit Violations and Corporate Responsibility. Another central instrument Number is the Code of Conduct, which applies Group-wide (see 2011/12 2012/13 2013/14 2014/15 p. 40) and which is a required component of contractual of environmental relationships between the Otto Group and its suppliers. standards 0 0 0 0 of health or Furthermore, Group Directives govern our companies’ safety standards approach to anti-corruption, donations, embargo mea(product recalls) 6 2 4 1 sures, dealing with gifts as well as data protection and of product information standards 8 10 3 0 security (see p. 63). Managers are required to instruct of marketing their employees personally about the contents of these standards 4 5 5 0 Directives and any changes to them. In case of questions or on suspicion of a breach, employees can contact an internal department or an external Ombudsman. Of the five product recalls carried out in the reporting If violations occur, the Otto Group imposes appropriate period, the majority were textiles in which raised levels sanctions by taking measures foreseen by employment of azo dyes had been found. In one case, an own-brand law, or may even terminate supplier relationships. dishwasher was recalled following a technical defect. The violations of product information and marketing Complaints standards, a total of eight in the reporting period, related Number to product descriptions such as an incorrect description 2 of materials. 2 1 PROACTIVE RISK MANAGEMENT 7 6 Entrepreneurial activity bears inherent risks. Likewise, 4 achieving company goals can be endangered by risks. 8 1 Therefore, the Otto Group maintains a systematic risk 3 register both on Group and Group company levels, which 4 3 serves at the same time as a Group-wide ‘early warning 1 system’. Among the short-term risks are currency risks 2011/12 2012/13 2013/14 2014/15 and economic fluctuations that influence consumers’ willingness to spend. Longer-term risks for the Otto Complaints based on violations of diversity and equal opportunities Group arise for example from climate change, since Complaints in the area of consumer protection the increase in extreme weather events can lead to crop Complaints based on anti-competitive behaviour failures and raw-material scarcity in producer countries. Otto Group Sustainability Report 2015 26 INVOLVING STAKEHOLDERS Involving Stakeholders We address the expectations and demands of our stakeholders in discussions, through surveys and at events. Constant exchange is essential to identify their expectations and demands at an early stage and take account of these in our decisions. G4 – 24 The Otto Group is in constant contact with numerous S TA K E H O L D E R D I A L O G U E stakeholder groups. The most important are customers, The Otto Group is in contact with its stakeholders across G4 – 26 suppliers, employees, non-governmental organisations a range of channels, initially by providing information (NGOs), and political, scientific and business represenin its Sustainability Report and on its corporate website. tatives. Subsequently, meetings at events and platforms for exchange organised by the Group strengthen the diaM A N A G I N G S TA K E H O L D E R logue. Involvement through consultation represents I N T E R E STS the closest form of stakeholder involvement. For example, G4 – 25 The significance of the different stakeholder groups to the views of selected stakeholders concerning the the Otto Group depends on the relationship they have impACT sustainability management process (see p. 16) to the Group’s business or products. Identification and are incorporated into the Group’s strategic focus. This involvement of stakeholders, internal responsibilities also has a major influence on the scope of this Sustainand divisions of duties are set out uniformly in a directive. ability Report. The CR Division manages this process; it coordinates stakeholder discussions and, if required, performs risk F O C U S O N L A B O U R S TA N D A R D S assessments. At the end of 2013 the Otto Group presented its new Social Programme at a one-day forum (see p. 40 et. seq.). The key parties for managing stakeholder dialogue are By focusing on purchasing processes in risk countries the Executive Board, the CR Division, Corporate Commuand with a wider scope of application, the Group intends nications and the Group companies. Approved internal to improve working conditions in the supply chain. information flows ensure the Group companies respond The Otto Group gains valuable external assessments uniformly to external enquiries. These are classified into through podium discussions and workshops to improve those with a high risk to the Group’s reputation, and those its Social Programme. with a low risk. High-risk enquiries are sent directly to the CR Division for action; CR then works with Corporate The Otto Group helped shape, and is a signatory to, the Communications in the case of critical media enquiries. Bangladesh Accord on Fire and Building Safety, which was a response to the collapse of the Rana Plaza factory in Bangladesh in 2013 (see p. 44). The Otto Group was also closely involved in discussions concerning the Partnership for Sustainable Textiles, a multi-stakeholder initiative founded by the German Federal Ministry for Economic Cooperation and Development (see p. 44). Otto Group Sustainability Report 2015 INVOLVING STAKEHOLDERS 27 N AT U R A L C A P I TA L E V E N T D I A L O G U E AT A P O L I T I C A L L E V E L G4 – 26 In November 2014 around 100 companies responded to The Otto Group is in constant dialogue with political the ‘Biodiversity in Good Company’ initiative’s invitation institutions. In 2013 and 2014 it took part in workshops to meet at the Otto Group’s headquarters in Hamburg. organised by the German Federal Ministry for Foreign Under the motto ‘On the doorstep and beyond the Affairs on social responsibility in the supply chain. horizon: companies addressing the challenges of biodiversity’, business representatives and politicians The Group is also represented at the German national discussed how natural resources can be conserved, and CR forum, which advises the German Federal Ministry presented best practices. ‘Biodiversity in Good Company’ for Labour and Social Affairs on developing and implewas launched in 2008 by the German Federal Ministry menting the national German CR strategy. Furthermore, of the Environment, Nature Conservation and Nuclear in 2014 the Group supported the German government’s Safety, and today is a company-driven initiative. Since Research for Sustainable Development (FONA) agenda 2011 the Otto Group has chaired the initiative’s Board. by providing information on natural capitalisation and measuring external effects, for instance. T H E OT TO G RO U P ’ S K EY M E M B E R S H I P S A N D C O L L A B O R AT I O N S 2° – German CEOs for Climate Protection (initiated by Dr Michael Otto and a member since 2007) Bangladesh Accord on Fire and Building Safety (since 2013) Biodiversity in Good Company initiative (founding member 2008) Bundesverband der Personalmanager [German Federal Association of Personnel Managers] (since 2009) Business For Climate initiative (since 2012) Business Social Compliance Initiative (BSCI) (since 2004) Carbon Performance Improvement Initiative (CPI2) (founding member 2011) Forest Stewardship Council Germany (FSC) (since 2006) Founding member of the Cotton made in Africa (CmiA) initiative (since 2005) German Association for Personnel Management (since the 1980s) German Environmental Management Association (B.A.U.M.) (since 1987) German Retail Federation (HDE) (since 2009) terre des hommes (partner since 2008) Textile Exchange (since 2006) United Nations Global Compact (since 2002) Otto Group Sustainability Report 2015 28 CHAPTER OVERVIEW OF THE FOUR VALUE-ADDING STAGES Process stages based on textiles Page 29 Raw Materials & Processing Page 37 Final Production Page 45 Trade Page 59 Customer Otto Group Sustainability Report 2015 RAW MATERIALS & PROCESSING VALUE-ADDING STAGE 29 1. Raw Materials & Processing Process stages based on furniture Raw Material Sawmill Processing Refinement Extraction Timber is At the sawmill, Assorted tools The timber is harvested from logs are and processes finished, meaning managed forests processed into are used to it is waxed, and plantations. sawn timber process the stained, lacquered and prepared pieces of timber. or oiled to protect for further it from dirt and processing. stains, etc. Otto Group Sustainability Report 2015 30 RAW MATERIALS & PROCESSING VALUE-ADDING STAGE Raw Materials & Processing The cultivation and extraction of raw materials, and their further processing, lie at the start of the value chain. According to the materiality analysis this causes the majority of ecological impacts and social risks. The Otto Group is countering these challenges with three sub-strategies which all focus on more sustainable land use and forestry practices. CHALLENGES IDENTIFIED BY impACT See p. 12 et seq. for further G4 – 27 Overview of Materiality Matrix assessments information on impACT. for the Raw Materials & Processing value-adding stage: Quantitative Assessment Average Stakeholder Evaluation (on a scale of 1 [very low] to 10 [very high]) External Stakeholders: 8 Share of Raw Materials & Processing Relevance to Reputation: 4 Ecological value-adding stage in terms of overall Impacts Internal ecological impacts: 70% Regulation Risks: 3 Stakeholders Business Activity: 7 External Stakeholders: 9 Share of Raw Materials & Processing Relevance to Reputation: 7 Social value-adding stage in terms Risks Internal of overall Social Risks: 64% Regulation Risks: 4 Stakeholders Business Activity: 9 Otto Group Sustainability Report 2015 RAW MATERIALS & PROCESSING VALUE-ADDING STAGE 31 Q UA N T I TAT I V E A S S E S S M E N T R E S U LT S Compared to the other value-adding stages, the share The quantitative assessment of ecological of Social Risks, meaning violations of social stanimpacts was high for all four impact categories – dards through unacceptable working conditions, is Greenhouse Gases, Pollutants, Water Consumption greatest in the Raw Materials & Processing value-adding and Land Use – compared to the other three valuestage. These risks occur both in the extraction of raw adding Stages. materials and their further processing. Furthermore, they arise particularly in risk countries (see p. 40). Greenhouse Gases are emitted for instance Instances are particularly high for example in dye works through the consumption of energy in the agricultural for textile production. sector and in the rearing of animals for leather. Textiles and electronic articles are in part manufactured in S TA K E H O L D E R E VA L U AT I O N R E S U LT S G4 – 27 multi-staged, and consequently energy-intensive, External and Internal Stakeholders considered the production processes which have a climate impact. ecological impacts in the Raw Materials & Processing value-adding stage to be very relevant. In this value-­ Pollutants enter the air and water through the use adding stage, all stakeholders expect the Otto Group to of chemicals in finishing and production processes, also make long-term improvements in terms of Greenhouse through the use of pesticides in cotton cultivation for Gases and Pollutants, Water Consumption and Land Use. instance. In textile production in particular, all four Stakeholder The cultivation of plant-based raw materials such as Perspectives consider Pollutants to be of great imporcotton is also highly water-intensive. On average it takes tance for the Otto Group – for External Stakeholders around 2,100 litres of water to produce one kilogramme as well as from a Reputation, Regulation and Business of cotton. The artificial irrigation of cotton fields involves Activity perspective. many factors. This includes extracting water from rivers, which affects existing ecosystems. In arid regions, the One reason for the great importance attached to water requirement for cotton cultivation is in strong Land Use by External Stakeholders is the public competition with the population’s need for water for debate on the increased global competition for land. drinking and other purposes. It refers to the conflict between the cultivation and extraction of raw materials on the one hand, and the The majority of land is used for agriculture and forestry, conservation of natural habitats and diversity on the such as for commercial forestry and cotton cultivation. other. By contrast, from an Internal Stakeholder perThis has a major impact on diversity, which is much lower spective, Business Activities are still not considered to in these cultivated areas than in areas left to nature. be highly relevant over the medium term. Furthermore, mining, industry and transportation – even if to a much lower degree – all contribute toward The Otto Group also considers Social Risks in land use. All these forms of land use have ecological pre-production stages as being highly relevant to impacts. its Business Activity and Reputation. This assessment corresponds with External Stakeholders’ high expectations as well as the associated high level of relevance for this topic area to the Group’s Reputation. Otto Group Sustainability Report 2015 32 RAW MATERIALS & PROCESSING VALUE-ADDING STAGE T H E OT TO G RO U P ’ S G R O U P D I R E C T I V E S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y SCOPE OF ACTION IN PROCUREMENT Although this value-adding stage has the greatest share The Otto Group’s entire assortment is subject to miniof Social Risks, the Otto Group has not yet implemented mum standards which are brought together in the Group a sub-strategy to reduce them. The reasons are a lack Directive Sustainability in Procurement. It applies to all of contractual relationships and a resulting poor level of Group companies and sets out the environmental and transparency and limited influence over upstream suppliers. social requirements under which merchandising and Only a few aspects of Raw Material Extraction are managenon-merchandising goods are sourced and sold (see p. 39). able. Sustainability requirements can be implemented It bans such things as the use of real fur, feather and and managed in this regard using credible certifications, down gained from live plucking or foie-gras production, for instance through the use of the FSC® label. as well as the use of non FSC-certified tropical wood. T E X T I L E , F U R N I T U R E A N D PA P E R CODES OF CON DUCT S T R AT E G I E S A N D A D D I T I O N A L Two additional target-group specific documents compleMANAGEMENT APPROACH ES ment the Group Directive Sustainability in Procurement: The Raw Materials & Processing value-adding stage has the Code of Conduct for Merchandise, and the Code of the greatest potential to reduce the Otto Group’s ecoConduct for Non-Merchandise Goods and Services (see logical impacts. This is why three of the CR Strategy p. 40) – the latter covers external cleaning services at 2020’s five sub-strategies deal specifically with this. several locations. These set out social standards both for They aim to reduce all four ecological impacts (Greensuppliers and their subcontractors. house Gases, Pollutants, Water Consumption and Land Use). Application scope Through its Textile Strategy, by 2020 the Otto Group of key figures aims to only use sustainably cultivated cotton in its own and licensed brands. To achieve this, it is using The key figures in this chapter cover certified organic cotton and cotton from the Cotton all reporting companies from the business segment Multichannel Retail, provided made in Africa (CmiA) initiative. Under the Otto Group’s they pass the sub-strategies’ relevance Furniture Strategy, by 2020 only FSC-certified articles thresholds. All figures relate to calendar are to be used in the Group’s assortment of wooden years and are rounded off. furniture. Through its Paper Strategy, by 2018 the Otto Group intends to increase the share of FSC-certified GRI aspects covered gravure print paper for catalogues and advertising Emissions, Energy, Materials, Water, materials to at least 50%. Biodiversity Otto Group Sustainability Report 2015 RAW MATERIALS & PROCESSING VALUE-ADDING STAGE 33 Sustainable cotton 1 T E X T I L E S T R AT E G Y S TAT U S in t 2012 2013 2014 Total quantity of cotton 33,833 39,453 35,599 Scope of application of Quantity of organic cotton 708 607 478 the Textile Strategy Quantity of CmiA cotton 1,208 2,164 3,405 Share of sustainable cotton 6% 7% 11% All reporting companies with an annual sourcing volume of over 10 mn for Based on the sourcing volume of raw cotton. 1 own and licensed brands in the textiles product group are involved in the Textile Strategy. In the reporting period, this concerned bonprix, Frankonia, Cotton made in Africa Heine, OTTO, Schwab, SportScheck and the Witt Group. Cotton made in Africa (CmiA) plays a key role for the Otto Group in achieving its As OTTO has managed sourcing for the goal of ‘100% sustainable cotton by Group company Baur since 2014, Baur 2020’. Cost-efficient sourcing makes the itself is no longer involved directly mass-market use of CmiA possible. Among in the Textile Strategy. other factors, the lower costs are thanks to the underlying mass-balance approach, Nevertheless, Baur still has the indirect which works in a similar way to the ability to influence the success of eco-electricity model: there is no need the Textile Strategy, for example by to report the individual products in marketing sustainable cotton textiles which CmiA cotton was used – what matters to customers. The same applies to the is that the corresponding quantity of reporting company UNITO, whose textile sustainable cotton enters the value chain assortment is sourced primarily by OTTO. and demand is created as a result. CmiA allows African smallholder farmers to improve their living standards through In the Otto Group’s textile assortment cotton is by their own efforts and promotes environmental protection. The initiative is far the dominant fibre compared to polyester, viscose currently active in 10 African states and wool. The Otto Group has set itself the goal of where, through qualification measures, only using sustainably produced cotton in its cotton smallholder farmers are learning how to cultivate cotton efficiently and in an assortment of own and licensed brands by 2020. This environmentally friendly way. includes all textiles with a cotton share of at least 5%. Own and licensed brands were focused on, as the They benefit from contracts of employment and reliable payment for what they proGroup has a direct influence over the raw materials duce. In March 2015 there were around used here. To achieve its goals, the Otto Group is using 650,000 verified smallholder farmers. cotton from the CmiA initiative in particular (see info The use of CmiA cotton reduces the ecobox). In 2014 its share of the total quantity of cotton logical and social impacts in four out of five impact categories: Greenhouse Gases, was 9.6%. Certified organic cotton also contributed Pollutants, Water Consumption and Social toward this goal with a share of 1.3%. Risks. A lifecycle assessment of CmiA cotton revealed that greenhouse gas emissions are 40% lower for CmiA cotton In 2014 the Otto Group purchased 3,900 tonnes of production than conventional cotton prosustainable cotton. This is equivalent to 11% of the duction. Furthermore, around 2,100 litres Group’s total quantity of cotton (2013: 7%). The main of water are saved per kilogramme of cotton, as CmiA cotton is cultivated reason for the increase in the share of sustainable purely using rain water. cotton was an acceleration in the switchover to CmiA cotton at the Group companies bonprix, OTTO and Witt. As with conventional cultivation, pesticides may also be used on cotton produced under CmiA guidelines, as this is not organic cotton. However, the initiative does ban the use of certain pesticides, training and qualifying farmers to use them responsibly. Otto Group Sustainability Report 2015 34 RAW MATERIALS & PROCESSING VALUE-ADDING STAGE F U R N I T U R E S T R AT E G Y S TAT U S In 2014 the share of FSC-certified timber used in wooden articles stood at 33% – a considerable increase over the previous year (26%). This was thanks in particular to the efforts of OTTO: the Group company agreed Scope of application of FSC certifications with key wooden-furniture suppliers the Furniture Strategy and included additional FSC-certified articles in its assortment. bonprix also significantly increased the The Furniture Strategy covers all reporting companies with annual sales share of FSC-certified timber in its furniture assortment. of over 10 mn in the furniture product group. In the reporting period, this FSC-certified furniture G4 – 22 concerned baumarkt direkt, bonprix, Number Heine, OTTO and OTTO Office. 2011 2012 2013 2014 As in the case of the Textile Strategy, Baur is no longer directly involved in Total number of the Furniture Strategy. However, the furniture articles 16,815 53,9111 45,485 56,350 Group company continues to sell wooden of which, number of furniture products sourced by OTTO or FSC-certified articles other reporting companies. in the assortment 1,605 8,3431 11,872 18,688 Share of FSC-certified From 2013 a simpler definition has been articles in terms of used to calculate the key figure ‘Share the overall furniture of FSC-certified articles in terms of the overall furniture assortment’. This assortment 10% 16% 26% 33% definition only records solid wood Values adjusted versus CR Report 2013 (previously 50,571 and 8,227). 1 articles as well as part-solid and MDF This was because baumarkt direkt’s figures were only incorporated fully (medium-density fibreboard) articles. after publishing. Additional sub-assortments specific to baumarkt direkt are no longer incorporated in this key figure. Forest Stewardship Council® Next to cotton, timber is the Otto Group’s most The Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) frequently used raw material. It is used primarily in actively works toward conserving forests by promoting responsible forestry. The catalogue paper and in wooden furniture. prevention of uncontrolled deforestation and violation of human rights, and To make the Otto Group’s furniture assortment more the conservation of ecosystems and biosustainable, it uses FSC-certified timber (see info box). diversity are promoted through stringent forestry standards. This primarily It has set itself the target of increasing the share of reduces impacts in the impact category FSC-certified timber used in its wooden furniture to Land Use. 100% by 2020. Otto Group Sustainability Report 2015 RAW MATERIALS & PROCESSING VALUE-ADDING STAGE 35 PA P E R S T R AT E G Y S TAT U S Paper use by the Otto Group 2014 3.9% Scope of application of Packaging made of paper and cardboard the Paper Strategy The Group-wide sourcing of gravure print paper is handled centrally by OTTO. As such, it strongly influences the Paper Strategy’s key figures. The other reporting companies also use gravure print paper, with the exception of myToys, Hermes and EOS. In 2014 the Group consumed almost 275,000 tonnes of paper (catalogue paper, advertising materials and 96.1% Catalogues and advertising materials cardboard packaging). This means the Otto Group is (of which, gravure print: 73.4 %; offset and still the biggest consumer of paper in the Germanother print processes: 22.7 %) speaking region. Catalogues and advertising materials account for the Catalogue and advertising-material paper consumption 1 greatest share of the paper consumed by the Otto Group in t (96%), with over 264,000 tonnes consumed annually. 2011 20122 2013 2014 Despite the now clear dominance of e-commerce in Total quantity terms of the share of retail sales, many customers still of paper 289,050 258,639 258,382 264,189 use catalogues as a source of inspiration. Under its Paper Total quantity of Strategy, the Otto Group has set itself the target of gravure print paper n.d. 209,763 195,437 201,839 increasing the share of FSC (FSC-C011850) certified of which, FSC gravure gravure print paper for catalogues and advertising print paper n.d. 14,255 15,818 35,726 materials to at least 50% by 2018. Share of FSC gravure print paper n.d. 7% 8% 18% This focus on gravure print paper is because of its huge Data based on forecast figures which deviate only slightly from actual figures. 1 share of over three quarters of all the paper used for Slight deviation versus CR Report 2013. 2 catalogues. Another reason is central procurement through OTTO, which makes it possible to implement the strategy quickly and efficiently. Of the 201,000 tonnes of gravure print paper used in 2014, around 18% was FSC-certified (2013: 8%). This considerable increase was thanks mainly to long-term contracts with key paper suppliers. Otto Group Sustainability Report 2015 36 RAW MATERIALS & PROCESSING VALUE-ADDING STAGE E X PA N S I O N O F T H E PA P E R S T R AT E G Y Since the Otto Group’s cooperation with the Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) began, its label has already appeared on over two billion printed materials – a figure which makes the Group one of the world’s leading companies using FSC paper, a position it intends to strengthen further. With its Paper Strategy and Furniture Strategy, two of the Group’s five sub-strategies focus on FSC certification. By the end of 2015 the Otto Group will review and decide whether to incorporate offset print paper in its Paper Strategy. Since it is sourced locally by the individual Group companies’ purchasing departments and in significantly smaller quantities than gravure print paper, a changeover to FSC-certified offset print paper will involve significantly higher costs. Otto Group Sustainability Report 2015 FINAL PRODUCTION VALUE-ADDING STAGE 37 2. Final Production Process stages based on textiles Sewing Finishing & Packaging Textile workers process The brand label is attached fabrics into finished products to the product, which is such as t-shirts or bedding. then ironed and packed To make these, the fabric is ready for transportation. cut, sewn, and if desired is decorated with accessories and designs. Otto Group Sustainability Report 2015 38 FINAL PRODUCTION VALUE-ADDING STAGE Final Production The Final Production value-adding stage covers the final stages of the production process up to and including packaging of the goods ready for transportation. Here, the focus of the Otto Group’s sustainability activities is on improving working conditions, particularly at factories in risk countries. This is why it implements its Social Programme to audit and qualify them. CHALLENGES IDENTIFIED BY impACT See p. 12 et seq. for further G4 – 27 Overview of Materiality Matrix assessments information on impACT. for the Final Production value-adding stage: Quantitative Assessment Average Stakeholder Evaluation (on a scale of 1 [very low] to 10 [very high]) External Stakeholders: 6 Share of Raw Materials & Processing Relevance to Reputation: 3 Ecological value-adding stage in terms of overall Impacts Internal ecological impacts: 6% Regulation Risks: 2 Stakeholders Business Activity: 4 External Stakeholders: 9 Share of Raw Materials & Processing Relevance to Reputation: 10 Social value-adding stage in terms Risks Internal of overall Social Risks: 30% Regulation Risks: 3 Stakeholders Business Activity: 10 Otto Group Sustainability Report 2015 FINAL PRODUCTION VALUE-ADDING STAGE 39 Q UA N T I TAT I V E T H E OT TO G RO U P ’ S A S S E S S M E N T R E S U LT S SCOPE OF ACTION Compared to other value-adding stages Final Production Owing to the contractual relationship between Otto has relatively low ecological impacts. The majorGroup companies and their suppliers, there are greater ity of them are accounted for by the impact categories abilities to exert influence in the Final Production valueGreenhouse Gases and Pollutants. Here, CO2 adding Stage than in the upstream stages of goods emissions are emitted mainly by energy consumption production (see chapter ‘Raw Materials & Processing’, at the factories. Pollutants are emitted through the use p. 29 et seq.). Limited influence is, however, brought to of solvents, dyes and lacquers in furniture production. bear owing to complex sourcing structures as well as often small order quantities per supplier because of the Almost a third of all Social Risks occur in the Final huge range of articles offered by the Group’s trading Production value-adding stage. This stage includes, companies (see info box p. 40). for example, the packaging of textiles and the final assembly of electrical equipment. Consequently, manual Goods sourcing structure labour plays a much bigger role, which entails greater Social Risks than automated processes. Furthermore, When sourcing products, the Group first draws a distinction between merchandising the final production of merchandising goods is largely goods and non-merchandising goods. performed in risk countries (see p. 40). Here, for instance, Non-merchandising goods include such items there is a relatively high probability that stipulated as transportation, office equipment for labour standards and human rights are not upheld its own requirements, catalogue paper and services such as power and cleaning. owing to poor control systems. The Otto Group purchases merchandising goods G4 – 27 S TA K E H O L D E R E VA L U AT I O N R E S U LT S worth around 4.9 bn€ annually. Of this, around half is spent on third-party brands. From a stakeholder perspective, Social Risks are In the case of these goods, brand manufacthe dominant sustainability topic in this value-adding turers are responsible for upholding social stage. External Stakeholders expect the Otto Group to and environmental standards in production. Own and licensed brands account for the take steps to mitigate these risks. Consequently, this remaining half of the sum of merchandising topic also poses a high risk to the Group’s reputation goods purchased. Own and licensed brands and is correspondingly relevant to the Group’s business are sourced globally in different ways: success. through sourcing organisations such as the Group company Hermes-OTTO International (H-OI), external agencies, importers or directly via suppliers. Overview of goods sourcing in the Otto Group Code of Conduct Otto Group Code of Conduct for for Merchandise sourcing Non-Merchandise Goods and Services Merchandising Non-Merchandising Goods Goods own and third-party brands licensed brands sourced primarily from non-risk countries; Hermes has its own Code of Conduct for contractual partners offering from risk from non-risk parcel-delivery services countries countries responsibility (see p. 56) lies with brand manufacturers focus of sustainability activities: e.g. Social Programme Otto Group Sustainability Report 2015 40 FINAL PRODUCTION VALUE-ADDING STAGE Enormous article diversity CODES OF CON DUCT The Otto Group has implemented two Codes of Conduct Most of the Otto Group’s business models are based on offering a huge range in accordance with its sourcing structure: one for merof articles. The Group sources over a chandising goods and one for non-merchandising goods million different articles from over and services (see figure p. 39). These set out the social 70 sourcing countries – and works with several thousand suppliers, which in standards which apply to all Group employees, business turn order from various factories. partners and suppliers. The Code of Conduct for Merchandise is based on the core working standards of the Production in risk countries International Labour Organization (ILO), the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child and the UN Convention Merchandising goods are predominantly manufactured in risk countries owing to on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against the global division of labour. A country Women. Further components include BSCI guidelines is classified as a risk country if, for and OECD Directives for Multinational Enterprises. instance, human-rights infringements and socially unacceptable working conditions are more likely because of inadequate By entering into a business relationship, suppliers and control systems. The Otto Group adopts business partners commit not only to upholding these this risk-country classification from in their companies but also to ensuring their subconthe Business Social Compliance Initiative (BSCI) – a global alliance of trading tractors abide by them. The Codes of Conduct form the companies, brand manufacturers and basis for reviewing whether all trading and business importers. The Otto Group’s sustainability partners are complying with the standards. To view both activities within the Final Production value-adding stage focus on the factories documents, visit: www.ottogroup.com/responsibility. in these risk countries. S O C I A L P R O G R A M M E S TAT U S SOCIAL PROGRAMME AND ADDITIONAL MANAGEMENT APPROACH ES E N F O R C I N G S O C I A L S TA N D A R D S The Otto Group wants to offer its customers goods The Otto Group introduced its Social Programme in which have been produced in compliance with social 1999 to enforce social standards in risk countries. It and ecological standards. To achieve this, in 2013 the focuses on the production and sourcing of own and Otto Group rolled out the binding Group Directive licensed brands from risk countries. In 2013 it was Sustainability in Procurement. It developed its Code expanded to include importers and direct suppliers, of Conduct long before this in 1996 – and in 1999 it among other measures. The Social Programme’s goal is implemented its Social Programme, which builds on to establish acceptable working conditions for factory this Group Directive. workers. Furthermore, it aims to establish transparency in terms of where and how goods are produced for the G R O U P D I R E C T I V E S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y Otto Group. To achieve this, suppliers must disclose IN PROCUREMENT their factory structure and provide accepted and valid The Group Directive Sustainability in Procurement sets standards, audit results or assessments for each factory out the minimum social and ecological requirements on which produces goods for the Otto Group (see p. 43). how all goods are sourced by the Group companies. It includes social and ecological requirements on suppliers’ products and working conditions. These include a ban on sand blasting when processing denim fabrics.  For a list of BSCI risk countries, visit: www.bsci-intl.org/bsci-list-risk-countries-0. Otto Group Sustainability Report 2015 FINAL PRODUCTION VALUE-ADDING STAGE 41 Scope of application of the Correspondingly, OTTO has since also Social Programme controlled the particular key figures for merchandising goods sold by Baur. All own and licensed brand suppliers with factories in risk countries are integrated Together with the joint-venture partner in the Social Programme. All suppliers are hagebau, baumarkt direkt sources the majority integrated, irrespective of whether goods of its merchandising goods through a sepaare sourced by sourcing organisations, or rate sourcing organisation. This is why whether direct suppliers or importers are baumarkt direkt is not involved directly concerned. in the Social Programme. Instead, it operates its own Social Management System as a BSCI member. Application scope of key figures In January 2015 the Otto Group rolled out its new Supply Chain Database. This is why The Social Programme applies to reporting at present only the key figures for 2014 companies from the Multichannel Retail segcan be reported. These figures relate to ment. It is managed using the Supply Chain calendar years and are rounded off. Database (see p. 42). This currently allows the following Group companies to be repreGRI aspects covered sented: bonprix, Heine, OTTO, Schwab, SportScheck, the Witt Group and Alba Moda. Supplier Human Rights Assessment, Since 2013 OTTO has sourced goods for Baur. Supplier Assessment for Labor Practices The responsibility for implementing the Social Programme lies with the Group company that sources the merchandising goods. T H R E E S TA G E M O D E L Programme. This means they establish transparency in The primary aim of the Social Programme is to improve terms of their factories and provide valid social standards working conditions in risk countries where goods are for them. In the second stage, selected factories of key produced for the Otto Group. A three-stage model repsuppliers with which the Otto Group already works closely resents this aim. All suppliers are included in the Basic are given targeted support through qualification measures. Overview of Social Programme core processes Stage 3: Stage 3 aims: Excellence Programme Comprehensive Programme for selected factories improvement of especially relevant supStrategic pliers partnership Stage 2: Stage 2 aims: Development Programme BSCI audit result of “good” Promotion of good for selected factories Qualification working conditions SA8000 certification of key suppliers Closer collaboration Stage 1: Stage 1 aims: Basic Programme at least Improved working for all own and licensed Progress annually conditions Entry Assessment brand suppliers with Assessment Assessment of all factories in risk countries suppliers (exception: importers that are BSCI members) depending on new validity period accepted standards of standards, factory every 1 to 3 years fabric pool Otto Group Sustainability Report 2015 42 FINAL PRODUCTION VALUE-ADDING STAGE In the third stage, the Excellence Programme, selected 11% of suppliers are not integrated. While the remaining factories belonging to suppliers which are especially 72% are logged in the system, they cannot be definitively relevant from a strategic point of view are fully further assigned a value, as data correction and clarification are trained in terms of social, ecological and economic needed. aspects. Owing to the general economic situation (see Otto Group Annual Report 2014/15, p. 55) implementaThese figures show that the Otto Group is still trailing tion of this stage is initially dispensed with. far behind its own ambitious aim. The Reasons for the delay in the roll out of this complex, Group-wide S TA G E 1 : programme is due mainly to the wide variety of decenBASIC PROGRAMME tralised IT system environments and sourcing structures. This stage aims to establish transparency in terms of all In addition, it is proving more difficult than expected to suppliers and their factories with regard to compliance establish the necessary transparency, particularly with with social standards. It also aims to identify violations of regard to the factories of newly incorporated importers. the Code of Conduct. This is done by each factory either The Otto Group expects a significant increase in the providing an accepted standard or undergoing the Otto target achievement rate in 2015. Group’s own Entry Assessment prior to being awarded a production order. The validity periods of assessments and Integration status and supplier performance accepted standards are limited (most are valid for a year; others, such as the SA8000, are limited to three years). Description 2014 Once their validity expires, either a Progress Assessment Status: integrated 17% needs to be performed or a new valid standard needs to accepted Valid and accepted standards be provided. or assessments provided for all of a supplier’s active S U P P LY C H A I N D ATA B A S E factories 9% A S A CO N T RO L TO O L advanced achieved Valid SA8000 certificates or a BSCI audit result of ‘good’ All supplier and factory data which are relevant for provided for all of a supplier’s control purposes are logged in the Otto Group’s Supply active factories 7% Chain Database. This aims to establish a high degree BSCI member Importer is a BSCI member 1% of transparency over the Final Production value-adding Status: not achieved 11% stage and thus forms the basis of the Social Programme. not accepted A supplier does not have valid and accepted standards A I M : 1 0 0 % I N T E G R AT I O N or assessments for all active factories 11% The Basic Programme aims to integrate into the Social sanctioned Sanctions are being brought Programme all suppliers with factories in risk countries against at least one of a – an aim it intends to achieve by the end of 2015. A supsupplier’s factories 1 0% plier is considered to be integrated if all its factories in banned A supplier has been banned 2 0% risk countries which produce goods for the Otto Group no value Integration status still unclear (‘active factories’) can provide a valid and recognised as, for example, transparency assessment, certificate or audit result (see info box has not yet been established concerning active factories 72% p. 43). Alternatively, importers will also be accepted if they are BSCI members. Sanctions are applied if serious violations of the Code of Conduct 1 (e.g. in terms of working hours or wages) are discovered, or if a supplier refuses to have audits or assessments performed. At the end of this reporting period the Group compaA supplier is banned if, despite sanctions, it refuses to meet the 2 nies involved in the Social Programme were working requirements/implement the Social Programme. with 2,628 suppliers. Of these, 449 are considered as being integrated in the Social Programme – equivalent to 17%. Otto Group Sustainability Report 2015 FINAL PRODUCTION VALUE-ADDING STAGE 43 A C C E P T E D S TA N D A R D S F O R S TA G E 2 : A S S E S S I N G FA C T O R I E S DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMME Assessments of all of a supplier’s active factories in a This stage is intended to qualify factories of long-term risk country are used to determine the supplier’s status. suppliers to the Otto Group as far as possible so that For this purpose, as part of the Social Programme they achieve a BSCI audit result of ‘good’ or gain SA8000 seven external standards are accepted in addition to certification. The Development Programme was launched the Otto Group’s own Entry and Progress Assessments. in 2013. It includes measures such as workshops and webinars, and provides the factory representatives with an awareness and ability to develop and implement better long-term working conditions. In 2014, 210 factoAccepted external standards ries were included in the Development Programme. BSCI audit (Business Social Compliance Initiative) S TA G E 3 : EICC audit (Electronic Industry E XC E L L E N C E P R O G R A M M E Citizenship Coalition) In the third stage, the Excellence Programme, selected ICS audit (Initiative Clause Social) factories belonging to suppliers that are especially ICTI audit (International Council of relevant from a strategic point of view are to be fully Toy Industry) developed further in terms of social, ecological and SA8000 certificate economic aspects. (Social Accountability) SMETA/SEDEX audit (Sedex Members Ethical Trade Audit) C L I M AT E A N D E N V I R O N M E N TA L WRAP certificate (Worldwide Responsible P ROT E C T I O N Accredited Production) The Otto Group is active particularly in the CPI2 industry initiative to reduce ecological impacts in the Final Otto Group’s own standards Production value-adding stage. Entry Assessment C P I 2 I N I T I AT I V E Progress Assessment Together with seven other German trading companies, the Otto Group launched the CPI2 initiative to cut CO2 emissions along the global supply chain. Since it was As at the end of 2014, 711 factories had provided established, 20 companies have signed up to the initiaaccepted standards. Of greatest relevance at 75% are tive. To achieve the goal, CPI2 provides suppliers with an BSCI audits (41% with a result of ‘good’, 24% with online management tool which lets them evaluate and ‘improvements needed’, and 10% with ‘non-compliant’). control their energy consumption across all areas of The Otto Group is currently assessing 14% of factories their business. In 2014, 362 active factories which pro(10% Entry Assessment, 4% Progress Assessment). duce goods for the Otto Group had already signed up For the remaining factories, other external standards to the CPI2 initiative. Workshops and webinars were also have been provided. Of those, SA8000 certification held in five countries in the reporting period, in which (8%) was the most widely used. 105 factories took part. A CPI2 stakeholder dialogue event was held in November 2014, the third time in a row such an event had been held. There, the companies involved engaged in discussion and networked with representatives from non-governmental organisations, development agencies, associations, as well as members of the scientific and political communities. The focus was on expanding the CPI2 tool to include chemical and water-use modules. These were implemented at the start of 2015 and are available for use. Otto Group Sustainability Report 2015 44 FINAL PRODUCTION VALUE-ADDING STAGE C O L L A B O R AT I O N S A N D A L L I A N C E S The Otto Group supported this endeavour right from To improve social and environmental standards particuthe outset. This is because the complex requirements larly among its suppliers in risk countries, and in doing and challenges are best tackled jointly. However, the so also to improve local working conditions, the Otto major textile producers and retailers, including the Group is additionally involved in international coalitions. Otto Group, did not join initially as many unanswered These allow an effective approach to be taken to global questions surrounding implementation remained. sourcing markets. To ensure as many companies joined as possible, the B S C I – M A R K E T A L L I A N C E TO Otto Group played an active and leading role in further IMPROVE WOR KI NG CON DITIONS developing the action plan. To achieve this, it was closely The Otto Group is a founder member of the Business involved in countless discussions and mediation talks Social Compliance Initiative (BSCI), which was launched between politicians, non-governmental organisations in 2003. Its goal is to improve working conditions in and trade unions on the one hand, and textile producers, international value chains. To achieve this it conducts retailers and their associations on the other. audits and qualification measures in factories. The BSCI currently has 1,500 members around the world In May 2015 both sides agreed on a joint approach. including trading companies, brand manufacturers At the start of June, leading companies in the textile and importers. Since 2014 the Otto Group has been industry, including the Otto Group and leading retail a member of the BSCI’s Steering Committee. and producer associations, announced they were joining the partnership. For the latest information, visit: BANGL ADESH ACCOR D www.textilbuendnis.com. Bangladesh is an important sourcing country for the Otto Group. Since 2013 the Otto Group has been a E D U C AT I O N P R O J E C T I N I N D I A supporter of the Accord on Fire and Building Safety In 2014 the Otto Group extended its collaboration for developed by international trade-union confederations, a further three years with the child-aid organisation the Clean Clothes Campaign (CCC), the Worker Rights terre des hommes in the Indian education project Consortium (WRC) and national trade unions from BanPrevention and Alternatives to Child Labour. So far, gladesh. The agreement includes binding and transparent targeted preparation has enabled 2,500 children from regulations on independent inspections, compulsory three slum districts of New Delhi and one in the state maintenance measures and corresponding cost-sharing of Bihar to attend a state school or take up an apprenby international corporate customers. In the reporting ticeship. Financial assistance is given to their families period, compliance with the agreement was reviewed such as through the awarding of microloans to help at all factories in Bangladesh which produce clothing them establish their own small business. The goal is for the Otto Group. to establish lasting structures which will ensure the project is self-supporting once financial assistance PA R T N E R S H I P F O R has ended. S U S TA I N A B L E T E X T I L E S On the German Federal Ministry for Economic Cooperation and Development’s initiative, the process to develop an all-encompassing partnership for action comprising industry, business, politics and civil society began in May 2014. Its goal is to systematically mitigate the negative environmental and social impacts of global textile production. Otto Group Sustainability Report 2015 TRADE VALUE-ADDING STAGE 45 3. Trade Examples of process stages Transport Warehousing Sales Distribution Trucks, ships The goods are Business A parcel-delivery or planes first stored in a processes are company brings the transport high-bay warehouse organised and ordered goods from the finished at a logistics products are the warehouse to the goods from the centre. Ordered marketed at the end-customer. This production products are Group companies’ customer is informed countries to the labelled, packed locations. beforehand about sales markets. and addressed with the delivery date the customer’s and can track the information. consignment online. Otto Group Sustainability Report 2015 46 TRADE VALUE-ADDING STAGE Trade The Trade value-adding stage covers procurement and distribution transport and activities at Otto Group locations. The ecological impacts in this value-adding stage are caused mainly in the impact categories Greenhouse Gases and Pollutants. In particular, the Otto Group intends to reduce CO2 emissions in this area as part of its Climate Strategy. This chapter also includes employee-related topics. CHALLENGES IDENTIFIED BY impACT See p. 12 et seq. for further G4 – 27 Overview of Materiality Matrix assessments information on impACT. for the Trade value-adding stage: Quantitative Assessment Average Stakeholder Evaluation (on a scale of 1 [very low] to 10 [very high]) External Stakeholders: 5 Share of Raw Materials & Processing Relevance to Reputation: 5 Ecological value-adding stage in terms of overall Impacts Internal ecological impacts: 5% Regulation Risks: 3 Stakeholders Business Activity: 4 External Stakeholders: 6 Share of Raw Materials & Processing Relevance to Reputation: 7 Social value-adding stage in terms Risks Internal of overall Social Risks: 6% Regulation Risks: 1 Stakeholders Business Activity: 7 Otto Group Sustainability Report 2015 TRADE VALUE-ADDING STAGE 47 Q U A N T I TAT I V E T H E OT TO G RO U P ’ S A S S E S S M E N T R E S U LT S SCOPE OF ACTION Ecological impacts, especially through the Besides activities at the Group’s own 400 locations, the emission of Greenhouse Gases, are caused by Trade value-adding stage also encompasses procurement procurement and distribution transport as well as transport from the production countries to the warethrough heating and powering the Group’s locations. houses at the trading companies, and distribution transOn the whole, the Trade value-adding stage has the port from the warehouses to consumers. Every year the lowest ecological impacts compared to the upstream Otto Group sources around 100,000 tonnes of goods and stages. delivers more than 120 million consignments through the Group company Hermes. The Social Risks are also much lower than in the upstream value-adding stages. That said, while the Otto Compared to other value-adding stages, the greatest Group employs the majority of its staff in the European ability to exert influence exists with these transport Union, Social Risks also exist there. This is because the services, which are either directly commissioned or risk categories (see p. 14) may be violated even at the performed by the Group company itself, as well as at Group’s own locations, for instance if maximum working the Otto Group’s own locations. hours are exceeded. C L I M AT E S T R AT E G Y A N D A D D I T I O N A L G4 – 27 S TA K E H O L D E R E VA L U AT I O N R E S U LT S MANAGEMENT APPROACH ES In terms of the ecological impacts of transport Taking into account the entire value chain, the ecological and the Group’s own locations, External and Internal impacts in the Trade value-adding stage are comparatively Stakeholders consider the need for the Otto Group to low. Nevertheless, External Stakeholder expectations take action as relatively high, particularly in relation to as well as reputation and regulation perspectives show the topics of Greenhouse Gases and Pollutants. that there are many reasons to lead by example in the External Stakeholders expect the Otto Group to lead area of climate protection – starting with the direct area by example within its own factory gates. For instance, of influence. External Stakeholders believe that only then could the Group credibly drive forward initiatives to reduce CO2 The Otto Group’s Climate Strategy aims to halve the and pollutants in the upstream and downstream valueadjusted CO2 emissions for locations, transport and adding stages. For Internal Stakeholders, these topics mobility by 2020 versus the base year 2006. The impleare relevant particularly from a reputation point of mentation in Otto Group companies will be done as effiview, as public discussions are becoming increasingly ciently and cost-effectively as possible. Energy efficiency critical of the mail-order industry – and goods delivery takes priority over the development of the Group’s own in particular. The Group also expects the enforcement renewable energy generation, the purchasing of green of additional energy-efficiency regulations and a further energy or the offsetting of CO2 emissions. Besides the tightening of pollutant thresholds. positive climate effects, the reduction in energy consumption and the use of renewables will also reduce air Social Risks are also considered to be relatively pollutant emissions such as nitrogen oxide and fine dust. high in the Trade value-adding stage in terms of Reputation and Business Activity. Here too, External StakeWhile the Group specifies a clear reductions target holders consider the need for the Otto Group to take centrally, the Group companies implement the climate action in this topic area as relevant. The main reason protection measures at a local level. The Group supports for this is less to do with the Otto Group’s own employees them in their operational implementation with measureand more to do with the working conditions at service ment and control instruments. providers which are less easy to control. Employeespecific challenges above and beyond Social Risks are Environmental management at the Group’s locations listed in the chapter ‘Employees’ on page 53. is also controlled and implemented decentrally by the individual reporting companies. The HR Strategy and other management approaches can be found in the chapter ‘Employees’ on page 53. Otto Group Sustainability Report 2015 48 TRADE VALUE-ADDING STAGE C L I M AT E S T R AT E G Y S TAT U S T O TA L CO2 E M I S S I O N S The Climate Strategy aims to reduce the adjusted CO2 emissions for transport, locations and mobility. In 2014 Application scope of key figures adjusted CO2 emissions fell by 24% versus the base year All figures relate to calendar years and 2006. Absolute (non-adjusted) figures dropped by 16%. are rounded off. The key figures in the Climate topic area cover the 14 reporting companies as well as the Group companies Distribution of adjusted CO2 emissions 2014 Alba Moda and 3Pagen, as they are also involved in implementing the Climate Strategy. The reporting of the Otto Group’s 3.6% CO2 emissions is based on the Greenhouse Mobility Gas Protocol. CO2 emissions are monitored exclusively. 59.8% Special aspects Transport CO2 emissions are always presented in an adjusted form – that is, relative to their performance units. They are adjusted using the following performance units to allow a comparison to be made with the base 36.6% year 2006: Locations Procurement logistics: weight of transported goods (tonnage) Includes employee business trips and the operation of the Distribution: shipment volumes to the company car fleet. customer and returns Absolute and adjusted CO2 emissions Locations: in t – O  ffices: number of employees and (Base year) surface area 2013 2014 2006 – Logistics buildings: parcel turnaround per year absolute 296,200 277,683 248,101 – Warehouses: gross capacity of buildings adjusted 296,200 246,162 224,149 – Shops: opening hours and sales area Reduction in adjusted –  Other uses: surface area CO2 emissions versus 2006 – 17% 24% Mobility: employee travel and passenger kilometres Dynamic business development generates TR ANSPORT-R E L ATED CO 2 EMISSIONS a distorted view of energy-efficiency The Otto Group mainly sources and distributes its goods improvements in absolute terms. By way via the Group company Hermes. In 2014, total transportof illustration, however, the total CO2 related CO2 emissions (sourcing and distribution) emissions are also given here. G4 – 23 amounted to 134,088 tonnes – a reduction of 27% For 2013 and 2014 the Otto Group made versus the base year. methodological changes to the CO2 reporting tool for the area of sourcing. As a result, this data for 2013 and 2014 cannot be comAt the same time, in 2014 the CO2 emissions in procurepared with the previous reporting period. ment transport fell by 32% versus the base year, and For this reason, the data for the base by 21% in the reporting period. Reducing the share of year 2006 has been recalculated, leading to a slight adjustment in the CO2 value air-freight made a considerable contribution to this for 2006. reduction. GRI aspects covered By contrast, CO2 emissions in distribution transport remained unchanged versus the previous year’s level. Emissions, Energy, Effluents and Waste, However, an 18% reduction was achieved compared Transport to the base year 2006. Otto Group Sustainability Report 2015 TRADE VALUE-ADDING STAGE 49 CO2 emissions from procurement transports CO2 emissions from distribution transports in t in t 117,558 107,413 80,456 66,572 61,239 61,664 117,558 100,232 79,675 66,572 53,186 54,413 (Base year) 2006 2013 2014 (Base year) 2006 2013 2014 Procurement transports (absolute) Distribution transports (absolute) Procurement transports (adjusted) Distribution transports (adjusted) Transport performance in sourcing 1 Transport performance in distribution 1 in mn tkm in mn consignments (Base year) 2006 2013 2014 122 127 122 Total (air-freight, sea-freight, road-freight) 928 1,194 1,162 Share of air-freight 14.6% 11.2% 8.0% Share of sea-freight 77.3% 83.1% 81.6% Share of combined sea/air-freight 0.6% 0.4% 0.2% Share of road-freight 7.5% 5.2% 10.2% 1 Transport for the sourcing of own and licensed brands carried out or commissioned by the Otto Group is considered exclusively. Transport e.g. (Base year) 2006 2013 2014 by importers is not included in the calculation. Total (car, truck) Precise control of stock levels is important in reducing Deliveries made through Hermes and other service providers are recorded 1 here, including large items. these CO2 emissions. Usually, ships are the preferred means of transport. However, if customer demand for articles is greater than expected, they often need to be L O C AT I O N R E L AT E D C O 2 E M I S S I O N S re-sourced at short notice by air-freight so that delivery The Otto Group’s locations generate CO2 emissions times for end-customers remain as short as possible. through the consumption of power and heat in offices, Currently, the share of air-freight is 8%. To reduce this, warehouses, logistics buildings and shops. In 2014, the the expected sales quantities need to be forecast as total adjusted CO2 emissions at the Group’s locations accurately as possible – something that is not only amounted to 81,999 tonnes. Through efficiency gains worthwhile in achieving the Group’s climate targets, and successive development of the Group’s own renewbut which also makes sense operationally. able energy generation, the Group has reduced CO2 emissions on average by 2.5% each year since the base year 2006. In 2014 the reduction amounted to 19% versus the base year. Total energy demand this year was 281,178 MWh. Otto Group Sustainability Report 2015 50 TRADE VALUE-ADDING STAGE The Otto Group performed cross-location CO2 property M O B I L I T YR E L AT E D C O 2 E M I S S I O N S benchmarking with the goal of identifying further considOnly a low percentage of CO2 emissions (2014: 3.6%) are erable areas of CO2-reduction potential. In the reporting attributable to the area of mobility. This covers both period a detailed analysis of 20 buildings with the greatest business travel as well as trips using company vehicles. potential to achieve CO2 savings was completed. For each In calendar year 2014 Otto Group employees travelled of the buildings analysed, climate impact-mitigation 85 million business traveland passenger-kilometres. This measures were identified which will both save significant resulted in (adjusted) emissions of 8,062 tonnes of CO2. amounts of CO2 and will remain economically viable over their respective lifespan. The Group companies decide on The Group’s main starting point for its emissions-reducand implement such measures at a local level. tion approach is the preferred use of low-carbon forms of transport. In the reporting period, Hermes also CO2 emissions at the locations1 in t acquired 944 tonnes of CO2 offsetting certificates for business flights. 101,728 97,518 95,662 Mobility-related CO2 emissions in t 11,513 10,342 10,319 101,728 85,020 81,999 (Base year) 2006 2013 2014 10,342 7,724 8,062 Total (absolute) Total (adjusted) (Base year) 2006 2013 2014 Conversion factors 1 Energy mix Germany: 520 g CO2/kWh (2006); 522 g CO2/kWh (2013); 511 g CO2/kWh (2014). Mobility (absolute) Mobility (adjusted) Energy mix Austria: 215 g CO2/kWh (2013); 165 g CO2/kWh (2014). Heating energy: Natural gas: 201 g CO2/kWh, heating oil: 266 g CO2/kWh. District heating: depending on the local district-heating supplier, it varies between 57 g CO2/kWh and 250 g CO2/kWh. Energy consumption at locations and facilities 1 in MWh (Base year) 2006 1 2013 2014 Total energy demand 275,250 283,919 281,178 of which, electrical power 140,795 154,095 155,830 of which, heating energy demand 134,455 129,824 125,348 of which, district heating demand 23,904 24,808 23,174 of which, heat generated from heating oil 8,481 3,840 1,688 of which, heat generated from natural gas 102,070 90,261 88,381 of which, heat demand and generation from renewables 0 10,915 12,105 Own power generation from renewables 204 1,318 1,486 The base number of buildings is subject to annual fluctuations; 1 2006: 285, 2013: 384, 2014: 395. The increase is due mainly to the opening of new shops and additional logistics locations. Otto Group Sustainability Report 2015 TRADE VALUE-ADDING STAGE 51 E N V I R O N M E N TA L P R O T E C T I O N WAT E R C O N S U M P T I O N AT T H E L O C AT I O N S Despite including further locations in the reporting Application scope period, water consumption remained more or less of key figures constant compared to previous years. In contrast to the Climate Protection Water consumption topic area, this data only takes into in m3 consideration locations which have been used for at least 6 months and which have a usage area of over 5,000 m², as well 210,906 216,981 221,495 208,265 as all the headquarters of the reporting companies. A total of 60 locations are thus covered. In the reporting period, a further four locations in Haldensleben, four locations in Löhne and the surrounding area, two myToys locations and a new SportScheck store in Munich, among others, have been newly included. 2011 2012 2013 2014 E N V I R O N M E N TA L M A N A G E M E N T The Otto Group’s environmental management system PA C K A G I N G forms the basis for analysing environmental impacts In the reporting period the quantity of packaging at the locations, assigning key figures to them and materials used in goods deliveries rose by roughly 7%. in doing so making them controllable. This system is Packaging comprises 85% cardboard and paper, with closely connected to the occupational health and safety plastic or other materials accounting for the remaining system at the reporting companies. Currently, 14 of percentage. the reporting companies’ locations have ISO 14001certified environmental management systems: Sales packaging consumption 1 in t  aur: Altenkunstadt, Burgkunstadt, B 11,516 12,540 Weismain and Sonnefeld 10,913 10,276 Hermes : Friedewald, two locations in Haldensleben, Hamburg-Essener Straße, Hückelhoven, Langenhagen and Löhne UNITO: Bergheim, Graz and Salzburg Additionally, since 2003 Hermes has been the only company in the logistics industry to be TIP-certified 2011 2012 2 2013 2014 (Trust Improvement Program). The demands of the TIP process go beyond those of the ISO norm and can only Only the sales packaging for the companies for which the Otto Group is 1 G4 – 22 responsible has been taken into account here. Any additional sales packaging be applied to highly developed management systems. for which the suppliers of the articles are responsible is not covered here. Figure adjusted versus the CR Report 2013 2  The certifications relate to the locations of individual Hermes Group companies (see p. 9). Otto Group Sustainability Report 2015 52 TRADE VALUE-ADDING STAGE WA S T E M A N A G E M E N T P ROJ E C TS BY T H E M I C H A E L OT TO The Otto Group goes to great lengths to avoid generating F O U N D AT I O N F O R E N V I R O N M E N TA L waste. Where this principle cannot be upheld, waste is P ROT E C T I O N duly recycled. In 2014 there was virtually no change in With its diverse portfolio, the Michael Otto Foundation the amount of waste generated by the reporting comfor Environmental Protection has been actively involved panies, despite the inclusion of myToys locations for in environmental protection and nature conservation the first time. since 1993. Its support focuses on protecting rivers and the sustainable management of wetlands, especially Waste by category in Germany and Eastern Europe. Through forums and in t education projects, the activities of the Foundation go far beyond the mere provision of funding. 2011 2012 2013 2014 Total waste 36,976 33,312 36,602 35,018 In 2014 the Michael Otto Foundation for Environmental Quantity of hazardous waste 1 146 77 73 115 Protection published the study ‘Nature conservation in Share of the agricultural landscape at a crossroads: Failures, suchazardous waste 0.4% 0.2% 0.2% 0.3% cesses and new approaches’ as part of the Biodiversity Quantity of in Good Company initiative. This study addresses the non-hazardous waste 36,831 33,235 36,529 34,903 conservation of biodiversity in agriculture. Share of non-hazardous waste 99.6% 99.8% 99.8% 99.7% In 2014 the collaboration project AQUA AGENTS Hazardous waste is generated mainly by electrical waste at the Otto Group. 1  received its third award as part of the UN Decade of Sustainable Development. Through this interactive educational offering, children learn about the importance of water to humans, nature and the economy. 2014 marked the first time the project had been run in the USA, in Chicago. Otto Group Sustainability Report 2015 TRADE VALUE-ADDING STAGE 53 E M P LOYE E S To meet the specific challenges of the individual Group companies’ business environments, the Otto Group C H A L L E N G E S R E L AT E D grants them a high degree of independence in setting TO E M P LOY E E S their focus points in their HR Strategy. The Group HR Division supports them in this. The connecting element Social transformation and framework is the Group-wide mission ‘The Power Demographic change is among the greatest societal of Responsibility’ (see p. 4). Alongside sustainability, the challenges for the Otto Group: in certain segments, value of diversity has particular relevance here. The comthe labour market is changing to favour employees, so panies develop their individual HR targets and measures that companies need to compete for the best talent. on the basis of the Group-wide mission and values. In this environment, the companies in the Otto Group have to position themselves as attractive employers for E M P LOYE E K EY F I G U R E S the long term. In addition, young employees joining the companies have different expectations towards work and career: classic status symbols are losing importance, Scope whereas flat hierarchies, creative latitude, and a good The key figures in this chapter work-life balance are increasingly expected. This makes comprise 13 reporting companies until HR work a strategic factor in future business success. the year 2013. From 2014, myToys is included for the first time. The Digital transformation figures are given as headcount, which also includes working students alongGlobal interconnectedness is leading to a complex, side permanent employees. Trainees, highly dynamic market and competitive environment. interns, temporary and agency staff This demands increasing flexibility and agility from are generally not included, but deviations from this are duly noted. companies, as well an ability to learn and change. New Employee numbers converted to fullqualities in leadership and cooperation are needed time equivalents are shown on page 5. to convey visions, manage change processes, kick off For the first time in 2014, in addition G4 – 23 innovations lead virtual teams, ensure knowledge to the reporting companies, key figures transfer, and create space to make rapid decisions. On are also included for Manufactum as well the other hand, everybody is now required much more as all major international Otto Group companies (3Suisses Group, Crate & than in the past to maintain their own employability – Barrel, Freemans Grattan Holdings through constant learning, by taking on new tasks (fgh), Otto Group Russia, the material and responsibilities, or by adopting changing roles in foreign companies in the bonprix and different projects. Hermes groups, and the Eddie Bauer Japan joint venture. H R S T R AT E G Y A N D O T H E R Key Aspects MANAGEMENT APPROACH ES The aim of the Group-wide Personnel Strategy is to gain The key figures were recorded by financial year for 2011/12 and 2012/13. new employees and to develop existing ones optimally In 2013, this was transitioned to by creating suitable framework conditions and opportucalendar years. Therefore, the stated nities. This is done through an effective interlinking of figures for the transition year 2013 strategic elements, such as strengthening the Otto Group are given for ten months (March to December) as a one-off. Most key figures employer brand, Group-wide diversity, recruitment and are based on values on cut-off dates. succession management, as well as pursuing an HR Due to the switch from financial to Strategy that is orientated towards employees’ different calendar years, the cut-off date changes from 28/02 to 31/12. life phases, and an occupational health management aimed at prevention. Otto Group Sustainability Report 2015 54 TRADE VALUE-ADDING STAGE E M P L O Y E E S T R U C T U R E I N T H E R E P O R T I N G C O M PA N I E S As at 31 December 2014, a total of 29,720 people worked at the reporting companies. Employee numbers 1 Number 2011/12 2012/13 2013 2014 2014 (Otto Group incl. international companies) Total number of employees 28,252 27,889 28,213 29,720 45,772 of which, female 61.6% 61.0% 60.5% 59.8% 59.8% of which, male 38.4% 39.0% 39.5% 40.2% 40.2% Number of employees with full-time contracts 14,481 14,320 10,875 15,251 26,155 Share of female employees with full-time contracts 37.0% 37.1% 36.2% 35.8% 44.9% Share of male employees with full-time contracts 73.6% 75.4% 76.2% 74.3% 75.4% Number of employees with part-time contracts 13,850 13,286 13,524 14,469 19,617 Share of female employees with part-time contracts 63.0% 62.9% 63.8% 64.2% 55.1% Share of male employees with part-time contracts 26.4% 24.6% 23.8% 25.7% 24.6% G4 – 22 Until the 2012/13 financial year, the employee numbers were recorded including working students, temporary staff, trainees, interns and agency staff. 1 Since the data capture was internationalised, the key figures have been recorded to include working students, but not trainees, interns, temporary or agency staff. As all key figures are given in the table according to the new definition, the values for 2011/12 and 2012/13 deviate from the values given in the CR Report 2013. S TA F F T U R N O V E R R E ST R U CTU R I N G M EAS U R E S Staff turnover in the reporting companies corresponds Restructuring measures in connection with the Otto to the overall average in Germany and Austria. The slight Group’s overall alignment with the challenges of increase in 2014 is due to restructuring measures. e-commerce are implemented based on sound judgement and in collaboration with employee representaStaff turnover tives in a socially acceptable way. Hermes is currently in % in the middle of a more extensive restructuring process. 12.6 12.5 The entire branch network of the company is being 9.1 9.8 reviewed and newly set up. The Fokus project, which had as its aim the leadership of the three Group companies OTTO, Baur and Schwab through a joint strategy for increased growth and sustained profitability, was completed in 2013 and the reduction in personnel was implemented as necessary in this context. Thanks to a forward-looking HR policy 2011/12 2012/13 2013 2014 and constructive cooperation in which all participants made efforts towards a considerate but goal-orientated resolution, the demanding staff reduction targets were achieved in a socially acceptable way without requiring redundancies for operational reasons. Otto Group Sustainability Report 2015 TRADE VALUE-ADDING STAGE 55 R E M U N E R AT I O N TEMPORARY WOR KERS In their remuneration practices, the reporting companies Temporary workers are essential for covering seasonal act largely independently within the framework of the peaks in the workload, for example the pre-Christmas applicable pay-scale agreements and take into account period in the Logistics area. Due to an increasingly regionally differing salary structures. Management staff strained labour market at some Hermes sites, it is not as well as non pay-scale employees in general receive possible to employ permanent staff locally in sufficient variable remuneration components which are linked to numbers. company performance and individual target achievement. The fundamental structure of remuneration at The increase in temporary workers employed from the highest management levels is prescribed in a bind1,278 in the previous year to 2,180 in the year 2014 ing form by Corporate Human Resources (see Annual is primarily due to the first-time inclusion of myToys. Report 2014/15 for the Otto Group, p. 166). Since the The company has its own logistics organisation which 2014/15 financial year, the annual variable remuneration employs temporary workers, as is typical in that sector. of all members of the Group Executive Board has been linked to achieving the five targets of the CR Strategy Temporary workers Number 2020 (see p. 20 et seq.). 2,180 COLLECTIVE AGREEMENTS 1,649 All 14 reporting companies have established Works 1,287 1,278 Councils. With the exception of top management and of myToys, all employees of the reporting companies fall under collective agreements as part of tariff contracts and works agreements. Primarily due to the inclusion of myToys for the first time, the proportion of employees for whom collective agreements apply sank to 92.4% 2011/12 2012/13 2013 2014 in 2014 (previous year: 97.5%). In the spring of 2015, myToys began making its first collective agreements. Coverage by collective agreements in % 98.2 97.6 97.5 92.9 2011/12 2012/13 2013 2014 Otto Group Sustainability Report 2015 56 TRADE VALUE-ADDING STAGE M A N AG I N G S U B CO N T R AC TO R S DIVERSITY AN D EQUAL As a rule, parcel delivery at Hermes is carried out by OPPORTU N ITI ES contract partners. To influence compliance with standards in working conditions, Hermes is the first company in DIVERSITY MANAGEMENT the sector to have developed its own certification model, The Otto Group has anchored Diversity as one of four in collaboration with SGS-TÜV Saar. Since 2012, all central values in its mission: as signatory to the Diversity contract partners have been subject to regular spot checks Charta, the Otto Group aims to offer all employees the on aspects relating to occupational safety, remuneration, same opportunities – regardless of their gender, age, working times, quality and environment. Hermes also place of origin, religion or world view, physical condition supports its contract partners in removing any defects or sexual orientation. Activities to promote Diversity identified during the course of audits. in the Otto Group are bundled under the umbrella of Group-wide Diversity Management. In 2013, 79% of the 344 audited companies received a certificate after the first audit. Of 350 companies The Group HR Division manages Diversity Controlling, audited in 2014, more than 87% passed their first audit. which ensures more transparency and measurability. Hermes supports its contract partners in implementing It supports Diversity Management through a system the certification standards and, where audits are not of key figures as well as through regular monitoring passed, it offers the opportunity of undergoing a and reporting. Violations of the principle of equality further audit in the following year. After implementing are recorded on a Group level. No complaints were improvement measures, 97% (2013) and 99% (2014) of submitted by employees during the reporting period. the audited companies achieved positive audit results. If standards are not adhered to despite these measures, D I V E R S I T Y I N I T I AT I V E S any cooperation is terminated. In the reporting period, In 2014, just under a fifth of all top managers employed this affected 4 companies. in the reporting companies were women. In addition, the Code of Conduct offers a basis for Top managers 1 by gender all business relationships in Distribution and obliges Number the contract partners to comply with applicable laws 2011/12 2012/13 2013 2014 2 governing working conditions and remuneration. In Total number 409 402 413 376 cases of violations, people employed by the contract of which, partners can contact an Ombudsman anonymously at share of female any time. Five employees made use of this option in top managers 15.6% 16.9% 17.7% 19.7% the reporting period. An internal whistleblower system of which, additionally serves to effectively follow up on breaches share of male top managers 84.4% 83.1% 82.3% 80.3% of the Code of Conduct. Since its introduction in 2011, 359 reports have been recorded and processed. 1 Executive Directors, Vice Presidents, Divisional Vice Presidents. 2 Excluding UNITO and the Hermes companies HE, HLGD, HTL and HES. If the next management level of Department Heads is included besides top management, then the total number of managers goes up to 1,087, of which 31.1% are women. Otto Group Sustainability Report 2015 TRADE VALUE-ADDING STAGE 57 Numerous initiatives have been created to support F U T U R E O R I E N TAT E D T R A I N I N G female management trainees across the Group, which As an active contribution towards winning over qualified will also increase the proportion of women in top manyoung professionals, the companies in the Otto Group agement in the long run. ‘Boost Your Career’ is a new offer almost 30 different technical, trade and business Group-wide development programme for emerging training courses. Apart from the professional qualification female talent. Other measures included a Diversity of the trainees, an understanding of technologyand Conference 2013, in which around 100 female and e-commerce-related content is part of the training as selected male top managers took part, as well as a much as personal development. In 2014, 783 young Diversity Award, which is given out among the Group people, of whom 50% were women, completed their companies. vocational training in one of the reporting companies. W O R K A N D FA M I LY FU RTH ER TRAI N I NG The compatibility of family and work increases the The reporting companies independently carry out decenattractiveness of the Otto Group as an employer. In tralised measures for ongoing training and staff developall reporting companies there are flexible working-time ment, in accordance with their respective requirements. directives, depending on the field of activity. Reporting At a Group level, these options are augmented with a companies improve their family-friendliness with Group-wide training programme offered through the options for working from home, job-sharing and Otto Group Academy. The focus is on strategically relevant sabbatical options, as well as personal counselling. topics, in particular the increasing digitalisation of retail, Various reporting companies offer lectures and support the internationalisation of the Group companies and on caring for family members, and the compatibility of the cross-company development of potential managethis with work. ment staff. E M P LOYE E S WI T H D I SA B I L I T I E S D E V E L O P I N G M A N A G E M E N T S TA F F 5.0% of the employees of the German reporting Successful mastery of the far-reaching changes in the companies are considered to be severely disabled. world of work, as well as the Group’s orientation towards Most Group companies utilise integration tools and e-commerce, also require a new understanding of leadermeasures for including disabled people in everyday ship and cooperation. In this context, OTTO has re-defined work, for example through the individual adaptation leadership so as to actively drive the changes and to of workplaces to disabled employees, or cooperation promote cooperative, flexible and solution-orientated with expert external integration services. collaboration in the respective areas of responsibility. The Group-wide, career-oriented Leadership Programmes VO C AT I O N A L A N D F U RT H E R T R A I N I N G for middle and top management were augmented with additional components during the reporting R E C R U I TM E N T period. These develop and expand the attitudes, skills To meet both market conditions and the strategic and qualifications needed for the change in values and direction of the business, the focus of the recruitment the digital transformation in a targeted way. activities in the Otto Group is currently on management trainees and high-potential employees in the areas of E-Commerce, Business Intelligence, Software Development and IT. Otto Group Sustainability Report 2015 58 TRADE VALUE-ADDING STAGE O C C U PAT I O N A L H E A LT H H E A LT H I N D E X OTTO determines a Health Index every year on the H E A LT H M A N A G E M E N T basis of an anonymous employee survey. This scientifiThe Otto Group Occupational Health and Safety Mancally based tool captures the performance and health agement System is based on the principle of prevention. of employees through a voluntary self-assessment. Its goal is to protect the health and performance of Targeted measures are developed and implemented employees through preventative measures. All reporting in response to the results, which contribute towards companies have their own Occupational Health and compensating for the stress on employees and thereby Safety Management Systems. increase the productivity of the company. Some of the reporting companies use the advice and When the data was last collected in spring 2015, the services of aktiv.net, a competence centre established Health Index reached a value of 64, an increase by by OTTO in 2000. This was certified in 2013 under the one percentage point compared to the previous year, DIN EN ISO 9001 quality management standard in the which also comes in 5 points above the average value activity fields of occupational medicine and outpatients, for companies with comparable activity structures. welfare counselling, occupational safety and health promotion. In 2014, a total of 114 individual measures were carried out in 26 departments. These organisational The preventative measures in the Group companies units showed clearly improved values compared to include a variety of sport and fitness options, nutritional the previous year. advice, relaxation techniques, addiction counselling and health days. OTTO offers its employees free psychological A C C I D E N T S AT W O R K counselling as well. Physically demanding work in logistics and transport services carries significantly higher risk of accidents The absenteeism rate is within the normal parameters than business activities. As is usual in the sector, occuand varies depending on the strength of seasonal pational accidents and lost days in Group companies illnesses such as colds and flus. with logistics and distribution sites are more than three times higher than in other reporting companies. Absenteeism rate 1 in % Work-related accidents Number 2011/12 2012/13 2013 2014 Total 6.4 6.9 5.2 5.9 2011/12 2012/13 2013 2014 Accident-related 0.2 0.1 0.1 0.2 Number of occupational accidents1) Based on planned working time. 1 per 1,000 employees (full-time positions) 35 28 32 36 Number of work-related deaths 0 0 0 0 According to the definition by the German Trade Associations, 1 this includes commuting accidents. Otto Group Sustainability Report 2015 CUSTOMER VALUE-ADDING STAGE 59 4. Customer Process stages based on electrical appliances Use Waste Disposal and Recycling Customers begin Consumers take their old operating the electrical appliances to collection supplied electrical places or return white goods appliances, such when they buy new appliances. as fridges, washing Expert disposal marks the end machines and of the lifecycle of electrical smartphones. appliances. Otto Group Sustainability Report 2015 60 CUSTOMER VALUE-ADDING STAGE Customer The Customer value-adding stage includes the whole phase of product use up to disposal and recycling. This causes almost a fifth of total ecological impacts; however, the sustainable design and marketing of the assortment can reduce these. Group companies initiate individual measures to raise their customers’ awareness of sustainability during product selection and use. CHALLENGES IDENTIFIED BY impACT See p. 12 et seq. for further G4 – 27 Overview of Materiality Matrix assessments information on impACT. for the Customer value-adding stage: Quantitative Assessment Average Stakeholder Evaluation (on a scale of 1 [very low] to 10 [very high]) External Stakeholders: 5 Share of Raw Materials & Processing Relevance to Reputation: 4 Ecological value-adding stage in terms of overall Impacts Internal ecological impacts: 19% Regulation Risks: 2 Stakeholders Business Activity: 4 Social not relevant in the use phase not relevant in the use phase Risks Otto Group Sustainability Report 2015 CUSTOMER VALUE-ADDING STAGE 61 R E S U LT S O F Q U A N T I TAT I V E MANAGEMENT APPROACH ES ASSESSMENT Since the reporting companies address different target Almost a fifth of ecological impacts occur in groups, they are each responsible for implementing this value-adding stage. Just as in the Final Production measures for raising awareness among their customers and Trade stages, the greatest impacts are caused by for sustainable consumption, for example by using the Greenhouse Gases and Pollutants. This is due Eco Facts labels (see diagram, p. 62). This allows the to energy consumption during washing, drying and Otto Group to have an indirect influence on a reduction ironing textiles, for example, or to electricity consumption in ecological impact in this value-adding stage too. for the operation of electrical appliances. In addition, synthetic dyes and phosphates are released during A strong customer orientation is the foundation of ecowashing. Since water is not a scarce resource in most nomic success in the Otto Group, and decentralised cusdistribution countries, the impact of Water Consumptomer communication allows it to address target groups tion is relatively low. Compared to the use phase specifically. However, the communication of sustainability of textiles, their disposal causes only relatively low aspects is made more difficult by the sheer number of ecological damage. existing product labels with their various requirement profiles. Such a volume of information frequently overSocial Risks do not occur in the use phase, since whelms and unsettles customers. To counteract this, it no working hours are performed here. is especially important to the Otto Group to ensure a clear and credible presentation of sustainability aspects. R E S U LT S O F S TA K E H O L D E R ASSESSMENT GRI aspects covered G4 – 27 The ecological impacts in the value-adding stage Customer Health and Safety, Product and Customer are seen as less relevant than other stages by Service Labeling both Internal and External Stakeholders. This is due to the fact that companies are generally assigned a lower responsibility for activities that do not refer to their own business activities or their supply chain. Internal StakeP R O D U C T T R A N S PA R E N C Y holders see reputation opportunities here, in particular AN D QUALITY for marketing especially energy-efficient products. O R I E N TAT I O N T H R O U G H T H E OT TO G RO U P ’ S QUALITY SEALS SCOPE OF ACTION The Otto Group labels products that have particular The Otto Group can only influence the ecological impact sustainable quality seals with so-called Eco Facts. These of product use indirectly, for example by offering an promote and simplify customers’ sustainable purchasing extensive range of attractive and yet energy-saving elecdecisions by reducing complex information about inditrical appliances. Strict directives governing raw material vidual products to the essentials, and enabling Group cultivation, smaller sourcing and distribution markets, companies to communicate them in an easily visible way. as well as the necessary tracing of the flow of goods This helps consumers, who according to surveys often all increase the sourcing costs of sustainable products, feel overwhelmed with regard to ethical consumption. and these additional costs often also lead to higher 6 categories give information about the significant sussales prices. Unless such higher prices work out better tainability characteristics of a product (see diagram, p. 62). later, as they do for efficient electrical appliances which In the reporting period, new sustainability labels were generate savings in the use phase, many customers included in the categories and the scope of application are not prepared to spend more money on sustainable of the Eco Facts was adjusted accordingly. products. This price sensitivity in turn influences assortment design in the Group companies. Otto Group Sustainability Report 2015 62 CUSTOMER VALUE-ADDING STAGE The Otto Group’s Eco Facts Eco Bio Eco Recycling Eco Commitment Eco Energy Eco Resource Eco Vital Products Products Products that Products Products Products that manufactured manufactured support that are manufactured promote the entirely or entirely or social and particularly entirely or health and partly from partly from sustainable energy-efficient partly in a well-being of natural materials recycled initiatives. in use. resource-saving customers. with low materials. way. ecological impact. The Otto Group allocates a product to an Eco Fact category either if it is awarded a demanding label that is accepted by the Otto Group, or if it demonstrates a clearly provable advantage from the point of view of sustainability compared to a conventional product. Group companies that use Eco Facts in their online S Y S T E M AT I C P O L L U TA N T C H E C K S shops and catalogues include baumarkt direkt, Baur, The companies in the Otto Group are responsible for OTTO, Schwab and UNITO. the quality of the own and licensed brands that they offer, and they review these regularly. Checking textiles Alongside Eco Facts, Group companies have also develfor pollutants is part of the quality-assurance process oped individual solutions for labelling sustainable in the Otto Group. products. For example, the Group company myToys uses the mygreenline label to make more sustainable Using systematic spot checks, the Otto Group monitors products recognisable for customers at a glance, if the compliance with the legal requirements for its clothing article was manufactured under controlled ecological ranges. It relies on the competence of Hansecontrol, the and/or social conditions. Established and recognised testing institute that belongs to the Group. The reporting quality-seal committees in the areas of ecology, recycompanies have requirements for pollutant checks in cling and social responsibility are consulted and form their textile assortments that exceed legal requirements. a basis for assessment. They use the Öko-Tex 100 standard for orientation, which includes checks for health-impacting azo dyes, formaldeUnder the umbrella of the Future Initiative, the single hyde and heavy metals. There are particularly strict testcompany OTTO informs its customers further about ing parameters for children’s clothing. sustainable consumption and the company’s activities in the areas of environment, climate protection, nature conservation and social responsibility. Apart from participating in the Group-wide CR Strategy, this also includes OTTO-specific topics and services such as the re:blog on sustainable fashion. Otto Group Sustainability Report 2015 CUSTOMER VALUE-ADDING STAGE 63 E N V I R O N M E N TA L P R O T E C T I O N M A K E S PA C E – W I T H A H E A R T The Group company OTTO raises awareness among its E N E R G YE F F I C I E N T customers for the sustainable handling of resources. ELECTRICAL APPLIANCES For example, as part of the ‘Make space – with a heart’ For white goods, such as electrical appliances for cooking initiative, customers can put unwanted clothes, shoes and washing, the proportion of energy-efficient appliand home textiles to sensible use with the help of OTTO. ances in the assortment of the reporting companies was Having been sent postage-free via Hermes or DHL, the 69% in 2014, clearly above the values from the previous donations are re-used through certified companies. year. In particular the product group of dishwashers The proceeds are given to German Agro Action, NABU contributed to this positive development. (German Nature and Biodiversity Conservation Union) and the Cotton made in Africa initiative (see p. 33). Efficient large electrical appliances 1 in % D ATA P R O T E C T I O N A N D 2,876 I N F O R M AT I O N S E C U R I T Y 2,504 2,316 TO O LS The Group-wide applicable Information Security Directive regulates the protection of person-related and sensitive 68.9% company data from unauthorised access and theft and 60.8% 57.8% defines how to handle information. In this, the Otto Group follows the international ISO 27001 standard. 2012 2013 2014 A compliance process established for the German Group companies for the use of public cloud-computing services Number of large electrical appliances, total range is currently being transferred into a globally mandatory Share of efficient large electrical appliances in total range process. In addition, a data-protection target model will Electrical appliances are considered to be efficient if they are provably more energy1 help to ensure a data-protection level in the Otto Group efficient than the average energy consumption values in their product group. that is appropriate at all times and will strengthen the anchoring of data protection in the Group. AV O I D I N G R E T U R N S In the mail-order industry there are frequent returns, ANCHORING IN THE GROUP especially of textiles. The Otto Group companies take The continuously increasing requirements on data provarious measures to reduce expensive and climatetection and information security are also growing in damaging returns to a minimum. OTTO, for example, importance in the Otto Group. Therefore, the former is working on a software solution that gives individual Data Protection and IT Security Area was divided into sizing recommendations, as well as a pilot project for two organisational units, and their staff was increased. significant improvements in demand analysis. Group The managers of each are both standing members of companies such as OTTO or myToys make customers the Group Compliance Committee. They coordinate and who order the same product in different sizes aware of advise Data Protection Officers and Information Safety the negative environmental effects that are generated Officers in the individual companies. The existing by sending items back. baumarkt direkt will swap indiGroup-wide networks are being expanded to promote vidual parts in products sets, and SportScheck has the internal knowledge transfer in the Otto Group. removed articles from the assortment of the online shop that are returned particularly frequently. The Otto Group’s Internal Audit Department monitors individual Group companies’ adherence to the stipulations of the Group Directives and implementation of the centrally mandated measures. External audits and certifications (e.g. TÜV, Trusted Shops, ISO 27001) complement the internal audits. Otto Group Sustainability Report 2015 64 ASSURANCE STATEMENT Assurance Statement Independent assurance report Our firm applies the International Standard on Quality Control 1 and accordingly maintains a comprehensive TO OT TO (G M B H & CO KG ), H A M B U R G system of quality controls including documented policies We have been engaged to perform a limited assurance and procedures regarding compliance with ethical engagement selected sustainability information of the requirements, professional standards and applicable Sustainability Report 2015 of the Otto (GmbH & Co.KG), legal and regulatory requirements. Hamburg (hereinafter: “Otto Group”), for the business year 2014/2015, period 1 January to 31 December 2014 PRACTITIONER’S RESPONSIBILITY (hereinafter: “Sustainability Report 2015”). The sustaiOur responsibility is to express a conclusion based nability information, which was selected by Otto Group on our work performed as to whether anything has and reviewed by us, is marked with the symbol ( ) come to our attention that causes us to believe that in the Sustainability Report 2015. the quantitative information marked with the symbol ( ) in the Company’s Sustainability Report 2015 is MANAGEMENT’S RESPONSIBILITY in material aspects not in accordance with the criteria The Company’s Board of Managing Directors is respon“Completeness”, “Comparability”, “Accuracy”, “Clarity”, sible for the accurate preparation of the Sustainability “Timeliness” and “Reliability” of the GRI’s Sustainability Report 2015 in accordance with the criteria stated in Reporting Guidelines Vol. 4. the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines Vol. 4 of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). It was not part of our engagement to review product or services related information, which goes beyond the This responsibility includes the selection and application given data. of appropriate methods to prepare the Sustainability Report 2015 and the use of assumptions and estimates We also have been engaged to make recommendations for individual sustainability disclosures which are for the further development of the sustainability reasonable in the given circumstances. Furthermore, management and the sustainability reporting based the responsibility includes designing, implementing on the results of our assurance engagement. and maintaining systems and processes relevant for the preparation of the Sustainability Report 2015. We conducted our work in accordance with the International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000. OUR INDEPENDENCE AND This Standard requires that we comply with ethical QUALITY CONTROL requirements and plan and perform the assurance We have complied with the independence and other engagement, under consideration of materiality, in order ethical requirements of the Code of Ethics for Professional to provide our conclusion with limited assurance. Accountants issued by the International Ethics Standards Board for Accountants (IESBA-Codex) which is founded In a limited assurance engagement the evidence-gatheron the fundamental principles of integrity, objectivity, ing procedures are more limited than for a reasonable professional competence and due care, confidentiality assurance engagement and therefore less assurance is and professional behavior. obtained than in a reasonable assurance engagement.  Our engagement applies to the German version of the Sustainability Report 2015. This text is a translation of the Independent Assurance Report issued in German language – the German text is authoritative. Otto Group Sustainability Report 2015 ASSURANCE STATEMENT 65 The procedures selected depend on the practitioner’s E M P H A S I S O F M AT T E R – judgment. R E C O M M E N D AT I O N S Without qualifying our conclusion above, we make the Within the scope of our work we performed amongst following recommendations for the further developothers the following procedures concerning the materiment of the Otto Group’s Sustainability management and ality analysis, management approaches and key data – Sustainability reporting: for the aspects that are marked with the symbol ( ): • Systematic extension of the Sustainability management • Inspection of the documents describing the Sustainaand the Sustainability reporting on material German bility Strategy and Sustainability Management as well and international affiliated companies; as obtaining an understanding of the organizational • Further optimization of the current data collection and structure of the company; consolidation process on the level of the affiliated • Inquiries of personnel responsible for the preparation companies and the Otto Group; of the report regarding the process to prepare • Formalization and documentation of internal controls the reporting of sustainability information and the for ensuring data quality on the level of the affiliated underlying internal control system; companies and the Otto Group; • Recording of the systems and processes for collection • Further integration of Sustainability indicators and of sustainability data, inspection of their documentacontrols into existing control systems and processes. tion and validation on a sample basis; • Analytical procedures on relevant data; • Gaining further evidence for selected data of the Munich, 29 June 2015 report through inspection of internal documents, contracts and invoices by external service providers. PricewaterhouseCoopers Aktiengesellschaft CONCLUSION Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft Based on our limited assurance engagement, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the quantitative information marked with the symbol Hendrik Fink ppa. Anne Pattberg ( ) in the Company’s Sustainability Report for the German Public Auditor business year 2014/2015 is in material aspects not in accordance with the criteria “Completeness”, “Comparability”, “Accuracy”, “Clarity”, “Timeliness” and “Reliability” of the GRI’s Sustainability Reporting Guidelines Vol. 4. Otto Group Sustainability Report 2015 66 GRI-G4 CONTENT INDEX GRI-G4 Content Index This report adheres to the Guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) in its current G4 version; it has been produced in compliance with the ‘core’ option. If not all requirements of an indicator have been completely fulfilled, then the omitted information is not material for the Otto Group. G E N E R A L S TA N D A R D D I S C L O S U R E S Strategy and Analysis Page External audit UNGC G4-1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker 2 – Organizational Profile G4-3 Name of the organization Otto Group – G4-4 Primary brands, products, and services 4, 6-9 – G4-5 Location of the organization’s headquarters Hamburg, Germany – G4-6 Countries with significant operations GB 12, 46 GB 46, GB 198-199 G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form 4 – G4-8 Markets served 5, 6-9 – G4-9 Scale of the organization 5, 6-9, 39, 47; GB 67-68 GB 67-68, GB 198-199 G4-10 Employees by employment type, gender and region 54-56 – 6 G4-11 Percentage of employees covered by collective 55 – 3 bargaining agreements G4-12 Description of the supply chain 10-11, 39 – G4-13 Significant changes during the reporting period 54; GB 131 GB 131, GB 198-199 G4-14 Implementation of the precautionary principle 12, 25 – G4-15 External initiatives that the organization endorses U2, 27, 43 – G4-16 Significant memberships in industry and business associations 27, 44 – Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries G4-17 Entities included in the consolidated financial statement U2, 6-9; GB 129, 195 GB 129, 195, GB 198-199 G4-18 Process for defining the report content U2, 12, 14-18 – G4-19 Material Aspects identified U2 – G4-20 Aspect Boundaries within the organization U2 – G4-21 Aspect Boundaries outside the organization U2 – G4-22 Restatements of information provided in previous reports U2, 34, 51, 54 – G4-23 Significant changes in the Scope and Aspect boundaries U2, 7, 48, 53 – Stakeholder Engagement G4-24 Stakeholder groups engaged 26 – G4-25 Identification and selection of stakeholders 26 – G4-26 Approach to stakeholder engagement and frequency 12, 16-17, 26-27 – G4-27 Key topics and concerns raised through stakeholder 18, 30-31, 38-39, 46-47, 60-61 – engagement and response Report Profile G4-28 Reporting period U2 – G4-29 Date of most recent previous report September 2013 – G4-30 Reporting cycle U2 – G4-31 Contact point for questions regarding the report 69 – G4-32 “In accordance” option with GRI and Content Index chosen 66-67 – G4-33 External verification of the report U2, 64-65 – Governance G4-34 Governance structure, incl. committees of the highest 23-24; GB 6-7, GB 9 – governance body Ethics and Integrity G4-56 Values, principles, standards and norms of behavior 4, 25, 32, 40 – 10 Otto Group Sustainability Report 2015 GRI-G4 CONTENT INDEX 67 S P E C I F I C S TA N D A R D D I S C L O S U R E S Ecology Page External audit UNGC Aspect: Materials – Management approach 30-36 – 7, 8 G4-EN1 Materials used by weight or volume 33-36 33-34, 36, 64-65 7, 8 Aspect: Energy – Management approach 30-31, 38-39, 43, 46-47, 49, 60-61 – 7, 8, 9 G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organization 50 – 7,8 G4-EN7 Reductions in energy requirements of products and services 61-63 – 8, 9 Aspect: Water – Management approach 30-33 – G4-EN8 Total water withdrawal by source 33 – 7, 8 Aspect: Biodiversity – Management approach 30-32, 34 – G4-EN12 Impacts on protected areas or areas of high biodiversity 31, 34 – 8 value Aspect: Emissions – Management approach 30-33, 38-39, 43, 46-48, 60-61 – 7, 8, 9 G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 1) 48-49 48-49, 64-65 7, 8 G4-EN16 Energy indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 2) 48-50 48-50, 64-65 7, 8 G4-EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 3) 48, 50 48, 50, 64-65 7, 8 G4-EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions 48-50 – 8, 9 G4-EN21 NOx, SOx and other significant air emissions 33 – 7, 8 Aspect: Transport – Management approach 46-48 – 8 G4-EN30 Significant environmental impacts of transporting products 48-50 48-50, 64-65 8 Labor Practices and Decent Work Aspect: Supplier assessment for labor practices – 38-43 – 1, 6 Management approach G4-LA14 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened 41-43 42, 64-65 using labor practices criteria G4-LA15 Significant impacts for labor practices in the 41-43 42, 64-65 supply chain Human Rights Aspect: Supplier assessment for human rights – Management 38-43 – approach G4-HR10 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened 41-43 42, 64-65 2 using human rights criteria G4-HR11 Significant human rights impacts in the 41-43 42, 64-65 2 supply chain O T H E R G 4 I N D I C AT O R S R E P O R T E D G4 Indicator G4-EC1 Direct economic value created and distributed 5; GB 97 GB 97, GB 198-199 G4-EC3 Coverage of benefit plan obligation GB 151-154 GB 151-154, GB 198-199 G4-EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method 52 – 8 G4-EN27 Mitigation of environmental impacts of products 33-34, 61-63 33-34, 64-65 7, 8, 9 and services G4-EN29 Fines and sanctions for non-compliance with 25 – 8 environmental regulations G4-LA1 New employee hires and employee turnover 54 – 6 G4-LA6 Injuries, occupational diseases, lost days, 58 – and work-related fatalities G4-LA12 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown 56-57; GB 6-7, GB 9 – 6 of employees by aspects of diversity G4-HR3 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken 25, 56 – 6 G4-HR4 Operations and suppliers identified in which the right to exercise 41-43 – 3 freedom of association may be violated or at risk, and measures taken G4-HR5 Operations and suppliers having significant risk for 41-43 – 5 incidents of child labor, and measures taken G4-HR6 Operations and suppliers having significant risk for 41-43 – 4 incidents of forced or compulsory labor, and measures taken G4-SO7 Legal actions for anti-competitive behaviour, anti-trust, 25 – and monopoly practices G4-PR1 Percentage of significant product and service categories for 62 – which health and safety impacts are assessed G4-PR2 Incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary 25 – codes concerning the health and safety impacts of products and services G4-PR3 Principles/ procedures for product and service information 61-62 – and labelling G4-PR4 Incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary 25 – codes concerning product and service information and labelling G4-PR7 Incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary 25 – codes concerning marketing communications Otto Group Sustainability Report 2015 68 GLOSSARY Glossary Business Social Compliance The goal of this market alliance is to improve working conditions in international value chains through Initiative (BSCI) audits and qualifications in factories (see p. 40 et seq.). Carbon Performance An initiative by several companies, this has developed a management tool for managing CO2, chemicals and Improvement Initiative (CPI2) water in the supply chain. The Otto Group is a founding member (see p. 43). Code of Conduct Establishes social standards for suppliers and their subcontractors. It is a basis for business relationships with the Otto Group (see pp. 32, 40). Cotton made in Africa An initiative promoting the cultivation of sustainable cotton in Africa (see p. 33). (CmiA) CR Board The central committee for preparing strategic CR decisions, led by the Chairman of the Executive Board (see p. 23). SSCM Board Entry Assessment The Otto Group’s own standard for reviewing factories in risk countries (see p. 41 et seq.). Progress Assessment Forest Stewardship Council® An international, charitable and independent organisation for promoting responsible forestry (see p. 34). (FSC®) Global Reporting Initiative An international organisation that has developed guidelines for producing sustainability reports (see p. 68 et seq.). (GRI) Gravure print A print technique in which the elements to be printed are first engraved onto the image carrier as depressions. Gravure printing is generally used for high-volume printing, e.g. catalogues. Other typical printing processes are offset and digital print (see p. 35). impACT A sustainability management process through which the ecological and social impacts of the Otto Group’s business activities are calculated and managed (see p. 12 et seq.). Impact category The ecological and social impacts of the Otto Group’s business activity are calculated in the five impact categories Greenhouse Gases, Pollutants, Water Consumption, Land Use and Social Risks (see p. 14). Materiality Analysis For all topic areas ( ) the ecological impacts (in EUR) or the social risks (in Risk working hours) are determined. In addition, internal and external stakeholders assess their materiality (see p. 14 et seq.). Materiality Matrix Presents the results of the materiality analysis ( ) as a bi-axial diagram. The x-axis shows stakeholder assessments (on a scale of 1-10) of the individual topic areas ( ), the y-axis shows their ecological impact (in EUR) or the Social Risks (in Risk working hours) (see diagram, p. 18). Merchandising goods All products that are sold to end-customers, e.g. textiles and furniture. Non-merchandising goods include e.g. catalogue paper, office materials and cleaning services at company facilities (see p. 39). Multichannel Retail The third business segment in the Otto Group, alongside Financial Services and Services. It includes the business of the distribution channels e-commerce, catalogues and over-the-counter retail (see p. 6 et seq.). Own and licensed brands The Otto Group is in possession of the brand rights. The manufacture of these merchandising goods is commissioned by the Otto Group. The Group has a particular responsibility here and has a comparatively large scope of influence (see p. 39). Third-party brands Progress Assessment The Otto Group’s own standard for reviewing factories in risk countries, carried out annually after factories pass an Entry Assessment ( ) (see p. 41). Reporting companies Group companies in the Otto Group which are integrated in the sustainability reporting (see p. 6 et seq.). Risk country A country in which there is a higher risk of non-compliance with work standards. The Otto Group uses the risk classification defined by the Business Social Compliance Initiative (see p. 40). BSCI Risk working hours A unit for measuring Social Risks along the value chain. The risk that working hours have been performed under violation of minimum standards depends on country and sector (see p. 15). Social Programme This applies to all suppliers of own and licensed brands with factories in risk countries. It is intended to create acceptable working conditions for workers in the factories, as well as transparency in the supply chain (see p. 40). SSCM Board This is composed of managers from Group companies with responsibility for implementation. It decides on topics in the value chain and prepares decisions for the CR Board (see p. 23). CR Board Sourcing organisation Organise goods procurement in sourcing countries for companies and traders. The Otto Group works with the Hermes-OTTO International (H-OI) subsidiary, as well as external sourcing organisations (see p. 39 et seq.). Third-party brands In this case, the brand rights – and therefore the responsibility for compliance with social and environmental standards in production – lie with third parties (see p. 39). Own and licensed brands Topic area This describes an impact category on a particular value-adding stage, e.g. Greenhouse Gases in the Trade stage (see p. 18). Value-adding stage This describes one of the four sections of the Otto Group’s value chain: Raw Materials & Processing, Final Production, Trade and Customer (see p. 10). Otto Group Sustainability Report 2015 Imprint PUBLISH ED BY DISCLAIMER Otto (GmbH & Co KG) The Report on the Sustainability of our Value Creation Dr. Johannes Merck 2015 contains forward-looking statements which are Vice President Corporate Responsibility based on the opinions and estimations of the manageWerner-Otto-Straße 1-7, 22179 Hamburg, Germany ment. Although management assumes that the expecwww.ottogroup.com tations expressed in these forward-looking statements are realistic, it cannot guarantee that its expectations DOWN LOAD will actually prove to be correct. Assumptions may entail S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 5 risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to www.ottogroup.com/sustainabilityreport differ materially from those expressed in forward-looking statements. Otto (GmbH & Co KG) accepts no liability C O N TA C T and offers no warranty against the possibility of the Andreas Streubig Report on the Sustainability of our Value Creation 2015 Division Manager containing editorial errors or otherwise being incomplete. Environmental and Social Policy Otto (GmbH & Co KG) has no plans to update forwardandreas.streubig@ottogroup.com looking statements or to provide any corrections or supplements to the Report on the Sustainability of our PROJ ECT MANAGEMENT Value Creation 2015, nor does it undertake any obligation Daniel Hußmann to do so. However, Otto (GmbH & Co KG) does reserve Senior Manager CR Strategy & Controlling the right to update the Report on the Sustainability of daniel.hussmann@ottogroup.com our Value Creation 2015 at any time without notice. In the event of contradictions between the German and CONCEPTION AN D TEXT English versions of this report, the German version shall akzente kommunikation und beratung gmbh, be final and definitive. Munich, Germany E N G L I S H T R A N S L AT I O N World2World Hamburg, Jim Blake ART DI RECTION HGB Hamburger Geschäftsberichte GmbH & Co. KG, Hamburg, Germany BILDNACHWEISE Page 2: Marion Losse Page 29: thinkstock Page 37: thinkstock Page 45: Otto Group Page 59: thinkstock R EPORT ON TH E SUSTAI NAB I LITY OF OU R VALU E CR EATION 2015 Werner-Otto-Straße 1-7 22179 Hamburg Germany Phone: +49 (0) 40 64 61-0 Fax: +49 (0) 40 64 61-85 71 Website: www.ottogroup.com
