Table of Contents W W W. K a s r e l s a l a m . c o m Message from chairman. Introduction about ( kasr . el salam company): Nature of business. Company's special awards. ISO 9001:2008. Our subsidiaries: MG cars agents. Continental palace project. Global compact 10 principles. (Assessment, policy and goals). Measurements of outcomes added to our corporate. Implementation of CSR in our business strategy. 1. Vision. 2. Mission. 3. Volunteerism. 4. Illiteracy campaign. 5. Charitable activities. 6. quality culture developing program. 7. life skills developing program. 8. Program of awareness of political and human rights programs. 9. learning handicrafts program. 10. Work ethics the program. 11. Alexandria beautiﬁcation project. 12. Green buildings. Future plans via implementing CSR. GRI Disclosure. GRI Performance Indicatores. 2 CEO Message A new year of success in the application of the principles of THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT and demonstrate the political changes and becomes clearer vision about the state of many of the issues that the corporate social responsibility and its importance in building a stable society to achieve the desired development . A new year and we feel that the path that we took since 2008 was the right one. A New year and our goal for 2015 is to spread the culture of corporate social responsibility in the community to become the hallmark of thebusiness market egyptian. We thank united nation organization as it was the leader of Egyptian facilities in realizing its sociable responsibilities and achieving social settlement. We wish that we can achieve Egyptian dream of becoming a beacon in science and progress. Thank you, CEO Accountant / Zakaria Atallah Kasr El.Salam 3 Introduction to KasrEl Salam Company Nature of Business & Special awards: Kasr el salam for real estate & commercial investment is a leading company in real estate development & the sponsoring of architectural arts in Alexandria with a capital of four hundred & twenty ﬁve million Egyptian pounds. Kasrel salam is An Egyptian joint stock company, founded since 1988 , its success depends on the clients trust, owing to our leader ships in the ﬁeld of elegant & high class construction. We have been certiﬁed the international quality certiﬁcates ISO 9001: 2008. Company's Special awards: Our Company won award of best arch, design for C o n t i n e n t a l To w e r s project . Continental Towers 4 Introduction to KasrEl Salam Company ISO 9001 – 2008 Kasr-el salam is the ﬁrst real estate company in Egypt to be certiﬁed (ISO 9001 : 2008) , this is due to the concord of the company's modern system with the global quality standard , kasr el salam applies the latest in scientiﬁc research in the ﬁelds of development & scientiﬁc innovations. We have chosen the German institution TUV because it's the largest institution which grants ISO certiﬁcates in the world. It's a non for proﬁt establishment , which started in 1872 it has considerable monitoring activities in Germany & the EU it has a wide scientiﬁc experience & international reputation in the ﬁeld of quality as well . 5 Introduction to KasrEl Salam Company CONTINENTAL PALACE PROJECT A new modern luxurious project with minimalism style for ﬁrst time in Egypt using home automation tech. It designed by an international architectures. Continental Palace CONTINENTAL FORT PROJECT We Created A new Design mixing classic and modern Design to be an Artificial for 2014 at Loran Alexandria . Continental Tort 6 Global Compact Ten Principles Kasrel salam has committed to the principles of Global Compact since 2008 , since then the company has implemented the principles internally & externally and also to raise the Global Compact principles and CSR in general awareness and according to this statement it ensures how Kasr el salam supports & respects the 10 principles of UNGC. HUMAN RIGHTS: Principle 1 : business should support & respect the protection of Internationally proclaimed human rights. Principle 2 : business should ensure that they aren't complicit in Human rights abases. Principle 3 : business should uphold the freedom of association & the Effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. 7 Global Compact Ten Principles Assessment, policy and goals: total description of the relevance of human rights for the company , policies of human rights, & company goals on H.R. all human rights are fully respected at our company , employee rights are fully respected to have the suitable conditions of work. survey reports are temporary adjusted to raise annual salary aceardy to roductivity. Recruitment at kasrel Salam is done under supervision of certain policy where managers of all department must take a role in the recruitment for the company. Adeguont opportunities for professional women. Health care insure & safety insurance are applied. Our company is committed not to engage in any at the business activities that has any link against human rights. Our labor management is maintained through several suggestions between employees & head quarters to have a direct link through whole the company. Regular meetings are done to discuss any problem & to deal with new ideas or new suggestions. 8 Global Compact Ten Principles LABOR: Principle 4: business should support the elimination of all forms of forced & compulsory labor. Principle 5 : business should supports the effective abolition of child labor. Principle 6 : business should support the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. 9 Global Compact Ten Principles Assessment, policy and goals: Description of the relevance of labor rights for the company, labor policies , public commitment & goals on labor rights. Written policies that state employee rights & responsibilities & beneﬁts. kasr el Salam respects the freedom of association & the right to collective bargaining. Employees are encouraged by top management to join team work. The company provide places to host labor gatherings. Fighting the phenomena of child labor in Egyptian sector. Ratio of basic salary of men to woman is 1:1. 10 Global Compact Ten Principles Environment: Principle 7 : business should support a precautionary approach to Environmental challenges. Principle 8 : business should under take initiative to promote greater Environmental responsibility. Principle 9 : business should encourage the development & diffusion of Environmentally friendly technology. Assessment, policy and goals: our corporate is care med with matters of cleanliness & hygiene & no smoke in all its ofﬁces. we stop using any hard material unfriendly to the environment. 11 Global Compact Ten Principles ANTI CORRUPTION: Principle 10: Business should work against c o r r u p t i o n i n a l l i t ' s f o r m s , including extortion & bribery . Assessment, policy and goals: We are working to expand a culture of anti-corruption and bribery of the Local community. We had certain codes for internal work strategy . We have an internal audit cameras to submit all work in transparently way. About 40% of employees are trained in dealy with corruption. 12 Measurements of outcomes added to our coporate HUMAN RIGHTS: Equity in gender ratio. Our corporate becomes more leading. And well known in the ﬁeld of construction due to integrating CSR policy. Our suppliers are worked under certain condition to proof their co operation in integrating human rights. Back up opinion boxes are available everywhere. LABOR: Employees got the right to equal pay for equal work. Our corporate is 100% free child labor besides a singed form is given to us by all our suppliers in forming their joining is the preventing of child labor. Several workshops are done to raise awareness of all *employee's for their rights in labor. Employee's have the rights to work under condition suitable and thus it all comes positivity for our corporate. ENVIRONMENT: Kasr-el salam become more concerned with cleanliness hgiene , no smoke in all it's ofﬁices. Following the recommendations of Green Arch. And using Artiﬁcial wood and artificial marble instead of natural and use energysaving bulbs. Steel pipes exchanged to polyproplen pipes. Bitomen exchange to a modern isolation material. We started the use of solar energy technologies . Against corruption : We had our employers' confidence for our work. We prevent all kinds of corruption with all its forms. 13 Implementation of CSR in our Business Strategy VISION: As CSR is deeply integrated in our business strategy, that's will be resulted in reduced cost & greater innovation in or future plans and that must be accompanied by effective steps to achieve proper satisfying result. MISSION: By the practical application of our vision to hold it in a examples with the direct integration of the CSR. We started to continue what we did last year after the integrating CSR. In our strategy and to open new ﬁeld to hold the idea in a more professional way. Kasr el salam policy depends on quality system & constant development owing to our leadership in the field of elegancy & high constructions , we have been certified the international certificate ISO 9001 : 2008 from the international TUV nd we renewed it every year since. We are the first to work on the application & the activation of six sigma application is construction field and also we continue of that track since we started it. We continue our achievements in the development & renovation of Alexandria. We raise the general employees' awareness for their rights and we increase the number of work shops. 14 Implementation of CSR in our Business Strategy VOLUNTEERISM: We h a d a p r o g r a m f o r o u r company to create awareness in many fields as for Human Rights one ex we arrange this program where groups went to many place to raise personal awareness for fighting many diseases and t o give an overview of how to fight those disease a n d medical treatment to fights diseases. 15 Implementation of CSR in our Business Strategy Rehabilitation of street children campaign: the Company is making efforts with the state to reintegrate street children and return them to attend in education and the use of moral and financial support and return them to their families and encourage families financially. Cooperation with youth organizations and education campaign.. The company is making efforts in cooperation with youth organizations to create active and creative cadre of youth and women in civil society 16 Implementation of CSR in our Business Strategy Charitable activities: The company is making effort to cooperate with the orphanages and help them physically and morally such as the Friends of the Bible orphanage and help them with government agencies for legal and administrative assistance. 17 Implementation of CSR in our Business Strategy Cooperation with civil society organizations: The company and its employees cooperate with civil society organizations such as the Egyptian Alley Foundation for Community Development in the performance of it's service, to the community in all it'a activities. 18 Implementation of CSR in our Business Strategy life skills developing program: It is a program that is concerned with families, especially a mother to make it aware in the role of education organization of kids and improving studying level and introducing lectures to develop creative ability for the child for the sake of our future. We also offer cultural symposium for mother on how to raise their children and built their character. Program of awareness of political and human rights programs: We designed a program of cooperation with organization like institution of sons of small towns for political awareness and human rights through symposiums or lec tures or distributing publications especially concerning Egyptian constitution of 2013 for creating cooperative culture and doing sociable conversation to put an Egyptian constitution which achieves human rights and minorities. learning handicrafts program: Aiming program of learning construction activities which has shortage in lab our market and we shall hire distinctive ones. Work ethics the program: we have in the last period lectures and symposia's for our staff ,and local companies to demonstrate the extent of the importance of moral commitment and ethics in the labor market and their impact of the economic growth, and the importance of the creation of the standards for this moral commitment in the local market . 19 Implementation of CSR in our Business Strategy Green buildings : We approach our target , in the application of green buildings where credits are given to every area of the building that shows good environmental performance, certiﬁed auditors inspect, evaluate, bench mark. The building against a green building rating system to assess the building's level sustainability and that could be seen in our new project ( continental palace ). Its measured by energy , management , health & well being , transport, water , material, waste , land use, pollution . The total number of points or credits gained in each section is multiplied by an environmental weighting factor that takes into account the relative importance of each section scores are than added together to produce a single overall score. 20 Future Plans Via Implementing CSR FUTURE PLANS VIA IMPLEMENTING CSR: Last year, we recorded the idea of the project to be owned legally for us. A national project for the development of Alexandria: The company submitted to obtain a patent for a national project targets the development of Alexandria where it's in danger of sinking by modern scientiﬁc studies and solve problems of congestion ( and it is difﬁcult to the horizontal expansion because of geographic location ) , rising sea levels , the city out of the world tourism map , based on the history of the ancient city and heritage. 21 Future Plans Via Implementing CSR The idea of the project: The establishment of a modern city into the sea represents the bar parallel (2 m above sea level) barrier waves for the protection of the old city starting from montazah palace to bahary district is through the seven -lane linking ﬁve main islands contain skyscrapers, montazah island , Miami island, san Stefano island , the library (a global cultural center), island port. Links between them highway and on the sides of malls and global franchises and residential buildings, up 4 ﬂoors only. 22 ANREX GRI DISCLOSURE: 1. Strategy and analysis : 1.1 statement from the most senior decision maker of the organization . 2. organizational profile : 2.1 name of organization. 2.2 projects & agencys. 2.3 structure of the organization subsidiaries . 2.4 awards received. 3. report parameters : 3.1 reporting period. 3.2 date of most recent previous report if any. 3.3 reporting cycle . 3.4 boundary of the report . 3.5 table identifying the location of standard disclosure in the report. 23 ANREX GRI PERFORMANCE INDICATORS ( division , aspects and indicate number ) GRI INDICATOR INDICATOR DESCRIPTION Page Number Percentage & total number of signiﬁcant investment HR 1 agreements that include human rights clauses or the 8 underwent human rights screening. Operation identiﬁed as having signiﬁcant risk for HR 6 incidents of child labour & measures to contribute to 10 eliminate child labour. Education , Training , Counseling, Prevention 16,17, & risk control programs in place to assist work LA 8 18,19, force , members , their families or community members regarding serious diseases. 20 Operation identiﬁed where the right to exercise HR 5 freedom of association & collective bargaining may 8 be at signiﬁcant risk & action to support these rights. Ratio of basic Salary of men to women by employee LA 14 10 category. Percentage of employees trained in organization's SO 3 anti corruption policies & procedures. 12 Direct economic value generated & distributed including revenues operating costs , employee EC 1 compensation , donations & other community 4 investments retained earning & payments to capital providers & governments. 24
