GLOBALVIA UN Global Compact Communication On Progress Madrid April, 2015 Our Vision: Being an exemplary company with a business model based on sustainability, responsible investment, transparency and continuous engagement with the stakeholders. I am extremely proud to confirm that, for another year, Globalvia is supporting the Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact with respect to Human Rights, Labor, Environment and Anti-Corruption. For the last three years we have consistently honored the Ten Principles in the performance of our business. We are fully committed to further internalize the UN Global Compact and its Principles into Globalvia’ strategy, culture and day to day operations while continuing to engage with the local communities we serve thanks to collaborative projects that pursue to fulfill the broader development goals set by the United Nations. The annual submission of a Communication of Progress (COP) is the culmination of our corporate and personal efforts to implement the Ten Principles into a company that is serving communities in seven countries. We support public accountability and transparency, and we therefore commit to continue reporting on an annual basis according to the Global Compact COP policy. To this effect, Globalvia hereby confirms this firm commitment to our stakeholders and the general public. I sincerely believe that Globalvia leveraging its global presence, will be a key partner for the UN in jointly making our world a better place to live in. I, personally and on behalf of all of us who work in Globalvia, proudly accept and support the challenge. Sincerely yours, Javier Pérez Fortea CEO This year, the third in completing the Communication on Progress protocol, Globalvia is showing more than ever its commitment with the UN Global Compact Ten Principles with a new range of initiatives. Globalvia is applying these principles in a truly mix with our own principles and Company Values. For us, this is a clear path to follow, always searching excellence in business, but not forgetting our Social Responsibility with society. Sincerely yours, Nacho Colmenero Arenado Communication and CSR Director CONTENTS I. CONTENTS CONTENTS I. Introduction 02 II. Resumé 06 III. Human rights principles 11 III.1 Human rights assessment, policy and goals 12 III.2 Implementation of human rights actions 15 III.3 Measurement of human rights outcomes 23 IV. Labor principles 24 IV.1 Labor assessment, policy and goals 25 IV.2 Implementation of labor actions 29 IV.3 Measurement of labor outcomes 35 V. Environmental principles 39 V.1 Environmental assessment, policy and goals 40 V.2 Implementation of environmental actions 43 V.3 Measurement of environmental outcomes 51 VI. Anti-corruption principles 54 VI.1 Anti-corruption assessment, policy and goals 55 VI.2 Implementation of anti-corruption actions 57 VI.3 Measurement of anti-corruption outcomes 58 VII. Conclusions 59 5 5 6 II. RESUMÉ 6 II. RESUMÉ An overall of 77 assessments, actions and indicators that measure their outcomes have been developed in Globalvia that confirm the strategy and operations alignment with UN Global Compact ten principles in four different dimensions. Human rights “Businesses should support and respect the protection of the internationally proclaimed human rights; and make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses.” Assessment, policy and goals: • Code of Ethics • Corporate Governance policy and principles • Collaboration with Foundations Implemented actions: • Application of the Code of Ethics • Communication of both Code of Ethics and Corporate Governance policy and principles • “Coming in” training • Collaboration with Carmen Pardo Valcarce Foundation: labor integration Globalvia presents • Collaboration with Manolo Maestre Davila Foundation: children social integration assessments, policies, in Spain goals, implemented • Collaboration with Real Madrid Foundation: children social integration in Latin actions and its measurements, related America to human rights, labor, • Collaboration with UNICEF Foundation environment and anti• Habaneras music spectacle corruption. • Son Espases University Hospital: collaboration in social projects • School Volunteering and delivery of didactic material • Road educational talks: Costa Rica and Chile • Collaboration for training of disabled people: CAMPVS • Food collection campaign • Toy collecting campaign • Creating a community pitch Measurement of outcomes: • Harassment report • Code of Ethics training 7 7 II. RESUMÉ Labor “Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; the elimination of all forms or forced and compulsory labor; the effective abolition of child labor and; the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation.” Assessment, policy and goals: • Moral – Protocol annex to the Code of Ethics • Labor Risk Prevention policy • Appraisal process • Training and development plan Implemented actions: • Moral – Protocol annex to the Code of Ethics implementation • Communication of Labor Risk Prevention policy • Social benefits for employees • Talent Management Review • Flexible Payment Plan • Photo contest 2014 • Sport promotion within the Company • Children sport promotion • Membership in economic association Measurement of outcomes: • Employees distribution by gender and hierarchal level • Accidents, absenteeism and illness records • Internal quality of service survey 8 8 II. RESUMÉ Environment “Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies.” Assessment, policy and goals: • ISO and OHSAS certifications 9001,14001 and 18001) • CSR strategic plan (and specific on Concessions) • Environmental Impact Declaration Implemented actions: • Collaboration agreement with Abadía de Montserrat Foundation • Training on ISO, OHSAS and other Standards certifications • CSR strategic plan (and specific to Concessions) implementation • Túnel de Sóller archeological site • Underwater photography contest • User awareness in waste management • Maintaining the Universal Path Carara • Son Espasses University Hospital: Energy Efficiency Plan • “Movimiento ECO”, companies against fire • Sustainable mobility • Animal Rescue Program Measurement of outcomes: • Corporate • Ruta de los Pantanos • Concesiones de Madrid • Túnel d’Envalira • Autopista Central Gallega • Túnel de Sóller • Sociedad Concesionaria del Itata • Sociedad Concesionaria del Aconcagua • Chile Country Office • Ruta 27 • Tranvía de Parla • M50 Concession Limited • Hospital del Sureste • Autopista Nuevo Necaxa-Tihuatlán • N6 • GSJ • Hospital del Sureste • Hospital de Son Dureta • Autopista Nuevo Necaxa-Tihuatlán • Terminal Polivalente de Castellón • Metro de Sevilla 9 9 II. RESUMÉ Anti-corruption “Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery.” Assessment, policy and goals: • Fraud procedure • Compliance Manual Implemented actions: • Compliance Committee • Code of Ethics: tutorial video Measurement of outcomes: • Public legal cases statement • Internal Audits carried out and its actions 10 10 11 III. HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES 11 III. HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES III.1 Human rights assessment, policy and goals “Businesses should support and respect the protection of the internationally proclaimed human rights…” Globalvia supports the three principles related to human rights by the definition of certain actions, codes and manuals:  Code of Ethics  Corporate Governance policy and principles  Collaboration with Foundations “…and make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses assessment, policy and goals.”  Code of Ethics Globalvia has designed the Code of Ethics as a guide for all employees and executives of the Company to perform their professional tasks. This code is related to their daily working lives, as well as to the resources used and the business environment they work in. According to this, Globalvia respects Globalvia respects and and adheres to the human and employment rights that are recognized adheres to the human under Spanish and international legislation and the principles behind the employment rights that World Compact, the UN standards on the responsibilities of transnational are recognized under and other organizations in the field of human rights, the OCDE guidelines for Spanish and multinationals, the tripartite declaration of principles on multinationals, and international legislation. the social policy of the International Labor Organization, respecting the laws of each country and the ethical principles of their respective cultures. This Code includes the following paragraphs: • Declaration of principles, stating that the compliance with the Code of Ethics is mandatory for all employees of Globalvia and its subsidiaries • Values of the Globalvia, as part of the Organization’s culture in means of i) integrity (as acting ethically and responsibly), ii) team work (as in collaboration, cooperation and communication), iii) quality management (in regard to constant ongoing learning; clear, precise and rigorous action procedures; and last but not least, respect for the environment), iv) results-driven (as in organization and efficiency), v) customer service, and finally, vi) innovation, imagination and anticipation. • Professional Standards and Conduct, which states that the compliance to the Code of Ethics is compulsory for all Globalvia personnel and an inherent obligation as they fulfill their mission. All employees therefore accept specifically and irrevocably that any failure to observe or infringement of this Code of Ethics may be considered as a serious 12 12 III. HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES III.1 Human rights assessment, policy and goals breach of their contractual conditions and Globalvia may apply any disciplinary measures as appropriate, without prejudice to any other civil or criminal proceedings that may ensue. The breach of this Code is not negotiable under any circumstances. Furthermore, guidelines for professional conduct may include: › Confidential information and professional secrecy › Concurrence and conflict of interests › Intellectual property, means and resources • Standards of conduct between Globalvia professionals, as in general terms and more specific lines related to managers and executives › Always encouraging relations driven by mutual respect and avoiding any kind of discrimination or other actions that may conflict with the Organization’s values and ethics › Any conduct that limits any professionals’ dignity, whether physically or verbally, creating an intimidating, hostile or humiliating working atmosphere will be considered unacceptable › Any conduct considered inappropriate will be reported to Human Resourced for its study Globalvia establishes the basis for development of their  Corporate Governance policy and principles activities following the criteria of transparency Corporate Governance policy represents a guide to all Globalvia’s employees and confidentiality in and executives in the performance of their professional duties and in their their relationship with daily work, as well as in relation to the resources used and the business the stakeholders involved in its business. environment in which it operates; it is also, an example of its commitment to transparency. This policy includes the following issues: • General principles, since the Company operates in OECD countries, its governance principles are based on the foundations laid in this organism and it nourishes from the Spanish Corporate Governance Code due to its shareholders nature. It includes the following principles that need to be followed by every employee: › Rights and fair treatment of shareholders › Interests of other actors, stating that the Organization takes its responsibilities with other non-stakeholders (legal, contractual, social and market) that may be related to its activity (employees, investors, creditors, suppliers, local communities, customers and government) › Role and responsibilities of the Board 13 13 III. HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES III.1 Human rights assessment, policy and goals › Integrity and ethical behavior › Communication and transparency • Corporate Governance, stating General Counsel’s functions and responsibilities, which are to keep updated the information related to ownership structure, direction structure, related operations and any other interesting information, as well as to make it available to shareholders. • Current Company’s bylaws • Operation of the Board of Directors, its composition and member and delegated bodies, as expressed in articles 17 to 22 of the Company’s bylaws › Ways of organizing the Administration › Nomination / Designation › Term of office › Powers of the Management Body › Remuneration of the Management Body › System and operation of the Board of Directors › Board composition and its Delegated Bodies • Committees, within the powers granted by the applicable law and the provisions of the Bylaws, the Board has delegated certain functions by creating committees. As of today, there are three committees: Executive Committee, Designation and Retribution Committee and Risk Management Committee (on which Compliance Committee depends). • Side agreements, Globalvia shareholders have entered into a Shareholders Agreement that governs the development of the Company.  Collaboration with Foundations/NGOs Since 2013 Globalvia has selected several Foundations/NGOs in which to invest taking into account the projects that best represented the goals of its CSR Strategic Plan mostly focused on environment and economic and social development. Globalvia is currently collaborating with: • Manolo Maestre Davila Foundation • Real Madrid Foundation • UNICEF NGO • Abadia de Montserrat Foundation 14 14 III. HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES III.2 Implementation of human rights actions This present chapter focuses on the description of concrete actions to implement human rights policies, address human rights risks and respond to human rights related concerns.  Application of the Code of Ethics  Communication of both Code of Ethics and Corporate Governance policy and principles  “Coming in” training  Collaboration with Carmen Pardo Valcarce Foundation: labor integration  Collaboration with Manolo Maestre Davila Foundation: children social integration in Spain  Collaboration with Real Madrid Foundation: children social integration in Latin America  Collaboration with UNICEF NGO  Habaneras music spectacle  Son Espases University Hospital: collaboration in social projects  School Volunteering and delivery of didactic material 11 Road Educational Talks: Spain, Costa Rica and Chile 12 Collaboration for training of disabled people: CAMPVS 13 Food collection campaign 14 Toy collection campaign The application of the 15 Creating a community pitch Code of Ethics is a guarantee of ethical  Application of the Code of Ethics integrity for Globalvia and a reflection of the In the chapter above, “III.1 human rights assessment, policy and goals”, Company’s adherence Globalvia’s Code of Ethics has been described. At the end of that same to the human and document a specific paragraph is dedicated to the application of the Code employment rights. and may be considered as its implementation. According to this, the Code of Ethics is effective from the date of its approval by the Chairman, after which it was communicated to all employees and remains in force until it is cancelled or replaced by a new Code. Thus, all employees will be under the obligation to be aware of, uphold and comply with this Code of Ethics. Any breach of the standards contained in this Code will be considered as an infringement and result in the corresponding disciplinary action being taken. Managers requiring any other legal requirements for formal effectiveness must enforce due compliance. If employees do not agree with the application of any of the principles and standards, they may set out their objections within 10 days of receiving it from HR. If no such communication is received, it will be understood to consent to the full content of this document. Globalvia has developed a Communication Plan taking into account the different realities existing in the 15 Group societies in order to guarantee full understandment of the Code. 15 III. HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES III.2 Implementation of human rights actions  Communication of both Code of Ethics and Corporate Governance policy and principles The Code of Ethics is handed over to all employees along with their welcome pack on their first working day. Also, the Code of Ethics and the Corporate Governance policy and principles are available to everyone on the intranet. In 2013, Globalvia designed a tutorial video about the Company's Code of Ethics. It is a universal tool to get all employees involved emotionally in the importance of the Code of Ethics. The tutorial is oriented to spread the mission, vision, values of Globalvia to its employees. Code of Ethics video screenshot The video is shown when the employee joins Globalvia allowing the learner to watch and learn at his own pace. After watching the video, the employee takes a test that will be retaken every three years to refresh its significance. Besides, along 2014 different training sessions were carried out in some concessions to ensure the application of the Code of Ethics.  Coming in training Coming in is a welcome training session given to all the employees that Globalvia supports have recently join the Company and has a duration of two days. integrating people with disabilities since it The aim of the course is to present the Company, its mission, vision, values involves committing to and culture. All business processes, quality management and environment the right of everyone to processes, and support processes are also explained to all assistants. play an active role in society under conditions of fairness  Collaboration with Carmen Pardo Valcarce Foundation: labor integration and equal opportunity. In keeping with its commitment to diversity, Globalvia c​ ollaborates with Carmen Pardo Valcarce Foundation in order to promote and encourage integration of people with disabilities. The company hired a person with intellectual disabilities for the General Services department, who gives support to the receptionist, attends phone calls, scans and copies documents. From the CSR Department the challenge was to build awareness about people with disabilities in the workplace. We were determined to make all employees learn that people with disabilities can make a positive contribution to business at all levels. For that employee and leadership sensitivity training was a real asset. That is why it was decided that the Steering Committee would be in charge of sensitizing Globalvia’s employees and teams to ensure the successful integration of this employee. Along 2014 and thanks to everybody, this person has been totally integrated in the company. 16 16 III. HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES III.2 Implementation of human rights actions  Collaboration with Manolo Maestre Davila Foundation: children social integration in Spain Since 2013 Globalvia collaborates in Madrid with the Manolo Maestre Foundation on its ”Amoverse” project to ensure school support for children with academic difficulties who come from dysfunctional families at risk of exclusion in the Pozo del Tío Raimundo area (Vallecas), not only attaining a better life for them but also a brighter future. Each employee have the option to make an economic contribution along the year and Globalvia contributes the same amount provided by all, thus doubling the donation. (The project “With you, 1 = 2”, which was described in the last COP, was the starting initiative from which this Foundation was selected by all employees) .  Collaboration with Real Madrid Foundation: children social integration in Latin America Globalvia and Real Madrid Foundation are joined by two cooperation agreements to develop two social and sporty schools in Costa Rica and Chile providing more value to the Group Corporate Social Responsibility Plan. Costa Rica’ school was born in 2013 and it has increased his activity in 2014 up to 100 children with ages between 7 and 14 years thanks to Globalvia contribution. This school, which is located in Universidad Latina de Heredia Campus, opens its doors every Saturday from 8 to 11 a.m. educating the children different values through the sport. To have a good educational performance is an indispensable requirement to join the school. Social and sporty school in Costa Rica The 2014 season was officially inaugurated on 25 March 2014 and it was a success thanks to the participation and the effort of all parts involved and the wide coverage in mass media. Chile’ school was born in 2009 and thanks to Globalvia contribution it has been possible to increase the activity of this school to a maximum of 200 boys and girls. This school opens its doors to boys and girls who belong to dysfunctional families and/or living in care centers of Independencia and Estación Central communes located in Santiago de Chile. The main objective is to educate them through different values using the sport as a tool. Social and sporty school in Chile To celebrate Globalvia and Real Madrid Foundation collaboration, an inaugural act was developed on 15 October 2014 in Unión Española football Stadium, where part of the activities of this school are carried out. There were present diverse personalities like the ambassador of Spain in Chile and 17 the mayors of the Independencia and Estación Central communes. 17 III. HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES III.2 Implementation of human rights actions Furthermore these two initiatives cover daily health and food needs both for children and their families and engage, inspire and educate them about healthy habits in living. Real Madrid Foundation main objective is to promote, both in Spain as well as abroad, the values inherent in sport, and the latter’s role as an educational tool capable of contributing to the comprehensive development of the personality of those who practice it. In addition, as a means of social integration of those who find themselves suffering from any form of marginalization, as well as to promote and disseminate all the cultural aspects linked to sport.  Collaboration with UNICEF NGO Globalvia provides ad hoc support for UNICEF NGO. In 2014, in partnership with NF Comunicación company, Globalvia helped to build awareness of the Child Survival campaign by donating advertising space on Seville metro premises and encouraging participation in the campaign through socialmedia profiles.  Habaneras music spectacle Globalvia, in line with the Right to participate in the Cultural Life of Community, c​ ollaborated for the second time in a row in the celebration of the fourth Trobada de Havaneres edition in Port of Sóller on the 19th, 20th and 21st of September 2014.  Son Espases University Hospital: collaboration in social projects During 2014, Son Espases University Hospital has worked in different social projects, such as: • “Girasol” (Mental Healthcare Association): space provision for Girasol disabled employees. • NGO “Ángeles sin Alas” (“Angels without Wings”, association for Pediatric Palliative Attention): publication of the Yearly Calendar and collaboration with their Christmas celebration. • NGO “ Na Marga Somriu”: refurbishment works to cater for children in Oncological Healthcare facilities. 18 18 III. HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES III.2 Implementation of human rights actions • Patient Services Dpt. (Hospital Division): Non clinical collaborations for chronic patients, for their families and for people at risk of social exclusion (reformations, TV, children services, decoration project for Major Outpatient Surgery Unit and other special care cases). • Big Superheroes Project: play-centre for long term pediatric patients. Currently under consideration by the Department of Education. • Personal volunteer collaborations of employees with pediatric patients and other special patients: design and implementation of activities for children in the ICU. • Support for Suppliers actions: disabled employees in coffeeshops, project for children with serious psychiatric diseases, bottled water supplier collaborates with NGO “Caritas”…  School volunteering and delivery of didactic material For the third year in a row, Globalvia, through the Aconcagua Highway, supported the children’s school known as Las Luciernagas in Llay-Llay (Chile). During 2014, a entire reconstruction project of the schoolyard was carried out creating a new structure to shade and to protect the children from the extremely high temperatures experienced in that area. Furthermore, a complete set of material was delivered to fixe all the toys. Globalvia, through the Itata Highway, started to support the children’s rural school known as “Quinchamali” in “Quellon” (Chile). A complete set of works material was delivered regarding the construction of a new area with many classrooms. This means that it must be possible to brought up children in this rural area for two more years and remaining close to their families before leaving the village to continue studding. School Las Luciernagas (Chile) 19 19 III. HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES III.2 Implementation of human rights actions 11 Collaboration for training of disabled people: CAMPVS Carmen Pardo-Valcarce Foundation realized that integration of people with disabilities required for the disabled community to work to find solutions to break down existing barriers. Thus, the Foundation has launched an innovative educational project following trends imported from the U.S. and UK to involve private enterprise in the world of higher education. People with disabilities may not feel as if they are ready for the job because they do not have the practical, hands-on experience required for skilled positions or they do not have all abilities required. Many people with disabilities who are entering the workforce have not had the benefit of summer employment or part-time jobs as well as specialized training. As a result of this situation, companies cannot find in these people the adequate training for some positions. CAMPVS is just the answer to this issues. Keeping in mind that hiring and supporting people with disabilities must be a successful endeavor for the business, an innovative training system was designed. Three different and very specific training paths have been defined to give students just the right practical experience needed for a job posting. Along the way, companies will play a key role since employees of the different sponsor companies will teach subjects related this “careers”. Globalvia is already one of the Sponsors and has appointed four employees as mentors. In addition during 2014 other two employees collaborated in this project voluntarily teaching a “master class session” and sharing their knowledge and skills with the students. Training sessions (CAMPVS) 20 20 III. HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES III.2 Implementation of human rights actions 12 Road Educational Talks: Costa Rica and Chile Since 2012, Globalvia has been running a Road Educational Talks program for schools, based on fostering responsible habits and behaviour and preventing accidents when using road infrastructure. At the same time, the children taking part are encouraged to be key actors to build awareness of responsible behaviour on the roads in their immediate circles, thereby becoming agents for change based on looking after oneself and respecting the environment. The aim is to generate and strengthen relationships with neighbouring communities on the road, forging new links and reaffirming the organisation’s commitment to local people’s quality of life. Globalvia develops this program in Chile and Costa Rica. In Costa Rica the program is called “I am responsible” and through games, the children learn how to be responsible pedestrians, cyclists and passengers. Besides the training, each child receives a hi-vis jacket to wear when they are on the roads. For 2015, the CSR challenges for Chile are to include the adult world and professional drivers in the program, because besides educating children, it will be of vital importance to give adults relevant information for them to take care of themselves, their children and respect the environment. Road Educational Program in Chile “I am responsible” Program in Costa Rica 21 21 III. HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES III.2 Implementation of human rights actions 13 Food collection campaign Globalvia launched the first food collection campaign called “Kilo Operation”. The objective of this initiative, developed between 12 December 2014 to 12 January 2015, is to help those more in need of food in the hard January. The total revenue was 60 kilos of non-perishable food which will be distributed by Banco de Alimentos de la Comunidad de Madrid trough different charities. This successful initiative was possible thanks to the participation of all the employees and the idea is to make it possible every year. 14 Toy collection campaign Globalvia in partnership with the users of Seville metro organizes a Toy collection campaign every December. This action, which has a high level of participation, means that a large number of toys can be distributed through local associations such as the Gota de Leche Foundation and the Amigos del Parque del Alamillo Association, who give out toys all over the province of Sevilla (south of Spain). 15 Creating a community pitch Globalvia through N6 Concession donated €5,000 to help community fund a walkway and jogging track around community pitch. The residents of Cappataggle, Ballinasloe, Ireland, now have another wonderful community facility to add to their growing list of state-of-the-art facilities with the completion of a walking and jogging track around the local pitch. The sand-based track is 760 metres long and offers a badly needed and safer alternative to the many active walkers of all ages who previously used the local roads. 22 22 III. HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES III.3 Measurements of human rights outcomes Globalvia has various ways of monitoring and evaluating the performance related to human rights issues:  Harassment report  Code of Ethics training  Harassment reports As the chapter related to Labor policies will detail, there is an external figure to whom any Globalvia’s employee has the right to report any harassment situation of any kind. In 2014, there were not reports related to harassment of any kind. These reports followed the specific Protocol established in the annex to the Code of Ethics. As a result, the Investigation Committee determined that, in one case, had existed a situation of mobbing and sexual harassment and the perpetrator was fired; in the second case, it was determined that no harassment had occurred.  Code of Ethics training All people hired by Globalvia receive a Code of Ethics. Moreover, there is a tutorial video for newcomers (see III.2 Implementation of human rights actions). To assess whether the matter has been understood, the person viewing the video must fill in a questionnaire on the topic. Besides, along 2014 different training sessions were carried out in some concessions to ensure the understanding and the application of the Code of Ethics (for example in Metro de Sevilla (Spain) and Ruta 27 (Costa Rica)). Code of Ethics video screenshot 23 23 24 IV. LABOR PRINCIPLES 24 IV. LABOR PRINCIPLES IV.1 Labor assessment, policy and goals The following actions have been defined and implemented, these supports Labor principles:  Moral – Protocol annex to the Code of Ethics  Labor Risk Prevention policy  Appraisal process  Training and development plan “Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining…”  Moral Protocol annex to the Code of Ethics The Code of Ethics includes a specific paragraph that describes the protocol for prevention and action in mobbing and / or sexual harassment in the workplace. The Moral – Protocol states the compliance of the Company with the Spanish Constitution, European Union (EU) legislation and the Workers’ Statute and the Collective Bargaining Agreement for the Construction Sector, related to the safeguarding of dignity, the right to The Moral Protocol equality, moral integrity and non-discrimination. states the compliance of the Company with It also defines the concepts that involves moral harassment: the Spanish • Moral harassment or “mobbing”, that may take three different forms, Constitution, European depending on who is doing the harassing: Union (EU) legislation and the Workers’ › Descending: when the person doing the harassing is the victim’s Statute and the hierarchical superior. Collective Bargaining › Horizontal: When the person doing the harassing is on the same Agreement for the hierarchical level as the victim. Construction Sector › Ascending: When the person doing the harassing is hierarchically below the victim. • Sexual harassment • Gender-based harassment The protocol has been adapted for Costa Rica to comply with local legislation.  Labor Risk Prevention Policy In line with the policy framework on labor risk prevention, from Human Risks department of Globalvia, various activities take place related to this matter with the aim of improving working conditions and workers safety and 25 health. To this end, the Company leans on the support and advice of a risk 25 IV. LABOR PRINCIPLES IV.1 Labor assessment, policy and goals prevention accredited service, with which various activities are developed aimed at the identification, evaluation and monitoring of risks condition arising from the Company’s activity. Globalvia’s Direction, consistent with the guidelines established by the International Labor Organization and the Europe Union and also in compliance with internal regulations related to labor risks prevention, has developed a labor risk prevention management system that is fully integrated in the Company, at all hierarchal and functional levels, and that is consistent as well with the fundamental right workers health. “…the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor”  Appraisal process Globalvia’s employees are remunerated with a fixed annual salary and a variable salary. This last one is a part of the Integrated Management System framework applied by the Company’s Human Resources. The Board determines the strategy and overall objectives of the Company which will be applied in the variable salary. Globalvia’s personnel, including those subsidiaries where the Company holds a majority stake are included within the Integrated Management System (IMS) Human Resources. The variable salary is assigned to each of the managers to ensure that there is a complete alignment between the objectives assigned and the objectives and interests of Globalvia and its shareholders / investors. The variable salary is composed of three types of targets with different weights depending on the degree of responsibility and job to do. There is also a fourth type that is not taken into account for the variable salary. The types of objectives are called R1 (Results-1), R2, R3: • R1, Corporate objectives: global Globalvia’s objectives › The entire organization has the same goals, with different weights. › The aim is that everyone participates in the Group’s development. 26 26 IV. LABOR PRINCIPLES IV.1 Labor assessment, policy and goals • R2, Team Goals: specific goals of each team › Business Direction: same goals that R1, but disaggregated to a specific scope: country or concession. › Corporate Areas: specific objectives to provide the service and to generate tools to manage the Company and the business line. • R3, Employee Assessment of Competence: › Specific employee competencies that a person should show executing a particular job (Human Resources has established a set Globalvia’s appraisal of 12 competencies aligned with the strategy and objectives of process ensures a Globalvia). complete alignment of › As a result of this assessment an action plan is defined to be the interests between coordinated with the career plan (specific training, functional and people and the geographical mobility, promotion opportunities, etc) Company The weight assigned to each of the objectives sets out the degree of importance of each. With this system Globalvia ensures a complete alignment of interests between people and the company.  Training and development plan Globalvia’s development plan sets the attitudes, skills and expertise needed for an employee to take over the responsibility of the next hierarchal level in the organization. Based on the analysis of the Company’s main functions, Organizational Families are extracted (Finance, Support, Business Development, Highways and Railways). A development path for each family has been also defined and established that details the trail that each functional level needs to follow for their development. Globalvia’s development plan takes into account: › Skills assessment result › Performance evaluation › Individual assessment › TOEIC level (English level) › Training › Individual development needs 27 27 IV. LABOR PRINCIPLES IV.1 Labor assessment, policy and goals The training policy is included within the Company’s development plan. The development modules provide four training blocks defined according to the Organization needs: • Corporate culture: › It includes common training activities to all the employees, regardless of the area or department. › The training aims to present the Company, and enhance the employees development within the Company (vision, mission, values, processes and systems). • Skills: › This blocks gathers skill training activities common to all employees and graded by level / category. › The aim is to train the employee for its development within the Organization. • Technical competences: › Specific training actions are included for each employee of the departments, areas, or professional levels. › The objective is to develop the employee skills and enhance the development of their daily activities. • Languages: › Globalvia offers English classes to their employees. › In societies where there is another language (different from English), the Society offers classes. › It requires students commitment and follow-up. The training modules may be taken at certain points of the development paths, although there are mandatory actions that must be successfully completed in order to access the next functional level. The training sessions take place at Globalvia’s campus, a space where to develop the Company’s talent. 28 28 IV. LABOR PRINCIPLES IV.2 Implementation of labor actions “…the effective abolition of child labor; and…” The following paragraphs state the relevance of labor rights for Globalvia, through the implementation of various actions:  Moral Protocol annex to the Code of Ethics implementation  Communication of Labor Risks Prevention Policy  Social benefits for employees  Talent Management Review  Flexible Payment Plan  Photo contest 2014  Sport promotion within the Company  Children sport promotion  Membership in economic association  Moral Protocol annex to the Code of Ethics implementation Related to the Moral-Protocol annex to the Code of Ethics, some measures to prevent harassment of any kind have been implemented within the Company: • Communication, it is necessary to build awareness among the workforce and assure their effective knowledge not only of the definitions and different types of harassment but also of the action procedures set out in this protocol if harassment occurs. • Responsibility, everyone at the Company is responsible for upholding the principle of not tolerating any conduct of this kind, if necessary by taking the disciplinary action provided under the applicable employment legislation. All personnel are also responsible for upholding the principle of co-responsibility in the monitoring of conduct in the workplace. This is especially applicable to supervisors and managers. • Training, this topic is included in the Company’s training programs for the whole workforce. The purpose of these programs will be to identify the factors that contribute towards creating a harassment-free working environment, fostering communication and proximity between supervisors and their teams at all the Organization's hierarchical levels. • Action procedure, has been drawn up and is available to all employees for them to communicate complaints in guaranteed confidentiality and protection of the privacy and dignity of all people involved. • Compliance Officer, an external figure that has been created as an expert in such procedures and whose mission is to channel any complaints and reports of harassment of any kind, working with the worker or, as the case may be, acting with the worker’s authorization, to attempt to solve the conflict impartially. This Compliance Officer’s details 29 29 IV. LABOR PRINCIPLES IV.2 Implementation of labor actions may be obtained by the affected worker from the HR Manager on request. The Compliance Officer, upon being made aware of a case, will write up a report of the complaint made by the worker, which the worker then signs, in order for the corresponding formal investigation to be launched. Consequently, the Compliance Officer will have sufficient powers to interview any member of the Company’s personnel, regardless of their hierarchical level, to obtain the information necessary to resolve the conflict to the satisfaction of all parties, in confidence. If no such solution can be found, the Compliance Officer will refer the case to HR, attaching all the information obtained during the investigation and submitting a report on the action taken with a view to reaching a solution. The Compliance Officer may propose setting up an ad hoc committee to monitor the harassment reported, made up of the following members: › A staff delegate and/or representative of the Company’s tradeunion committee, or, if the company has no union representation, any Company employee proposed by the employee who does not work in the same department as the alleged victim. › A representative of the Company — the HR Director or whoever the HR Director may delegate the task to. › The Compliance Officer who was involved in the first stage of the process. This ad hoc committee, making use of the powers conferred under this protocol, will attempt to find an appropriate solution for the conflict in question. If the parties involved accept the proposed solution, they should explicitly say so in writing. However, if after the procedure described the existence of moral, sexual or gender-based harassment is confirmed, the penalties considered appropriate in each case will be imposed. • Additional provisions, to the Moral-Protocol annex to the Code of Ethics that include: › Precautionary measures: while the procedure is under way, Management will apply any precautionary measures necessary to put an immediate end to the situation of harassment, without negatively affecting the working conditions of the persons affected. › Assistance for the parties: During the processing of the action, the parties involved may be assisted by another person, who must undertake not to disclose any information obtained in consequence of holding this position of confidence. 30 30 IV. LABOR PRINCIPLES IV.2 Implementation of labor actions › No reprisals: Any reprisals against complainants, witnesses, assistants or any other persons involved in good faith a harassment investigation are prohibited. › False complaints: if no harassment, in any of its modalities, is found to have taken place and the complainant is found to have acted in bad faith by falsely reporting improper conduct, the corresponding disciplinary action will be taken.  Communication of Labor Risks Prevention Policy The above detailed policy related to Labor Risks Prevention is available to all employees in the Company’s intranet, stating all the principles that everyone needs to know in order to ensure security and health in the daily work. During 2014 an due to the integration of the OHSAS Standard, the Company has increased the communications and training to its employees regarding the prevention of occupational hazards. Likewise, through the certification process, the Company has confirmed its compliance with every legal obligation on this matter.  Social benefits for employees Globalvia ​has different measures to control and improve the working environment related to health, safety and hygiene in the workplace. • Health insurance, according to this, the Company subsidize up to 50% , extended to partners and children of the employee. By the voluntary adherence, the employees will have access to benefits such as dental coverage or up to 80% refund when assisting to non-subsidized medical centers and / or hospitals, provided they do not exceed a specific monetary amount. • Risk prevention and health surveillance, the aforementioned agreement related to labor risk prevention offers every employee a yearly medical examination according to the protocol set out in the Company’s prevention plan. • Accidents and professional diseases, a Spanish Social Security collaborating institution manages and protects from accidents and professional diseases that may occur at the workplace and / or during working hours, by providing emergency medical assistance and also manages the transfer to hospital if needed. 31 31 IV. LABOR PRINCIPLES IV.2 Implementation of labor actions • Life insurance, in case the employee dies (for any reason), his/her heirs will receive a compensation equivalent to the employee’s gross annual salary. Likewise, in case the employee results seriously injured and, therefore, unable to work, the employee will receive the same amount.  Talent Management Review Globalvia ​has established a Talent Management process in order to align the current and future needs of the organization, with the ability, potential and aspirations of its employees. To do this, twice a year the Steering Committee meets to analyze the employee’s developments in order to detect High Potential Performers (HIPO), meaning a person with ability, motivation and commitment to successfully perform the duties of a more senior and critical role than the one currently performed.  Flexible Payment Plan A Flexible Payment Plan has been implemented for the employees of Globalvia. This Flexible Payment Plan allows employees to allocate part of their gross salary to the payment of certain services and products (such as kindergarten services and the purchase of computer equipment) under favorable tax conditions. Therefore, employees can voluntarily join the Plan and optimize their monthly net salary while they are enjoying such services.  Photo contest 2014 In October 2014, Globalvia encouraged all its employees to participate on the III Corporate Photo Contest offering them the opportunity to take part on the 2015 Company’s calendar design. The Communication Department set the basis: › 12 pictures were going be chosen as the ones to be published and print in the Corporate 2015 calendar. › Any employee, no matter their hierarchal level, could participate. › The theme of the pictures was “The Environment”. Photo contest poster 32 32 IV. LABOR PRINCIPLES IV.2 Implementation of labor actions › All the photos needed to be sent to the Communication Department that was in charge of uploading them in the intranet in order to be available to everyone. › Once in the intranet, any employee could vote their 10 favorite pictures. › A total of 155 photos were sent. › The upload of the photos was anonymous. › The owner of the most voted photo won a GoPro camera. › The second prize was a Fuji Intax camera and the third prize was a Lomoraphy camera. › The 12 most voted pictures were the ones published in Photo contest winners the Corporate calendar.  Sport promotion within the Company Two years ago Globalvia created the Sportive Club at the initiative of employees. The Company paid registration fees and delivered the sport material required to the employees who participate in benefit races. Among 2014 Globalvia participated in three supportive races: • The first race called “Between Cultures Run – “Run for a good cause, run for education” was held on the 2nd February in Madrid and Mallorca and counted on 11 employees. • The second race called “Bone Marrow for Mateo Run” was held on the 29th March in Madrid and counted on 5 employees. • The third race was held on 8th August among a green route in Mexico. • The four race called “Companies Run – “All Fighting Ebola” was held on 14th December in Madrid and counted on 4 employees. Globalvia’s Sportive Club logotype 33 Supportive race in Mexico 33 IV. LABOR PRINCIPLES IV.2 Implementation of labor actions  Children sport promotion Globalvia promotes sports to be practiced among children by financing a handball school league in Andorra which was created two years ago. Sport is capable of conveying such educational values as effort, loyalty, teamwork and results-oriented performance. This year the action focuses on children aged eight to eleven from seven different schools in Andorra. Handball School League (Andorra) Moreover, Globalvia (through M50 Concession and GSJ Maintenance) currently supports the local Gaelic Sports team Rathoath GAA Club in Meath county, close to Dublin. The local Gaelic Sports clubs play one of the most influential role in Irish society, that extends far beyond the basic aim of promoting Gaelic games. They are volunteer community based organisations that promote Irish culture and values to people of all ages and seek for lifelong participation from the local families. Rathoath GAA Club (Meath County Ireland)  Membership in economic associations In 2014, Globalvia Ireland collaborated for the second year in a row with the ISEA (Ireland Spain Economic Association) becoming a member. The goal of the Association is to promote bilateral business relations between Ireland and Spain. The Association works in close cooperation with the Commercial Office of the Spanish Embassy and also Enterprise Ireland. The Association also established a counterpart association in Madrid under the patronage of Ireland's Ambassador to Spain. 34 34 IV. LABOR PRINCIPLES IV.3 Measurement of labor outcomes “…the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation.” The following paragraphs state the relevance of labor rights for Globalvia, through the implementation of various actions:  Employees distribution by gender and hierarchal level  Accidents, absenteeism and illness records  Internal quality of service survey  Employees distribution by gender and hierarchal level Records from January 2015 shows the following employee at Corporation (Concessions and Societies not included) distribution by gender in hierarchal level: 59 33 Women Men Direction Assistant 4 3 Department Director 2 12 Business Director 3 10 Analyst 24 34 From its 92 employees, 33 (35,86%) are women. From these women, 6 of them (19%) are at seniority level in the Company. In January 2015, Steering Committee is composed by 12 members, 3 of them are women. (figure shown in the next page). 35 35 IV. LABOR PRINCIPLES IV.3 Measurement of labor outcomes Globalvia’s Steering Committee is composed by 12 members, 3 of them are women. (April 2015) CEO Javier Pérez Fortea Audit and Risk Control Director Carmen Rubio Spanish Highways General Counsel HR, Communications Director José Felipe Gómez & CSR Director María Luisa de Barreda Belén Castro Castro European Highways Director Construction and Fernando del CFO Campo Operations Director Alberto García García Pablo Pajares LATAM Highways Director Javier Martín Rivals IT, Management Chief Investment Systems and Director General Services Railways Director Rafael Nevado José Luis García Recio Daniel Quintero 36 36 IV. LABOR PRINCIPLES IV.3 Measurement of labor outcomes  Accidents, absenteeism and illness records The Company keeps record of every accident and absenteeism of their employees • As of April 2015, 3 accidents have taken place since 2007. • Absenteeism and illness, split into gender and absence reason, in 2014: 14 Maternity 9 4 Paternity 3 Illness Illness 10 6 Women Men  Internal quality of service survey During 2014, as part of the CSR Plan a internal satisfaction survey has taken place. With this, Globalvia evaluates the perceived satisfaction of the Company’s employees, regarding the service provided by the Corporative Services as well as their perception in relation to the requests made to them by the different Business Areas. The survey was launched on the 9th of December 2014 and was closed on the 24th of December 2014. 37 37 IV. LABOR PRINCIPLES IV.3 Measurement of labor outcomes A total of 157 people were invited to respond to the survey and 111 people did so, producing a total participation of 70%. This data leads us to the conclusion that participation in 2014 has slightly increased (2%) compared to participation in 2013 (102 responses in 2013 vs. 111 responses in 2014). 75% 70% 68% 42% 2011 2012 2013 2014 38 38 39 V. ENVIRONMENTAL PRINCIPLES 39 V. ENVIRONMENTAL PRINCIPLES V.1 Environmental assessment, policy and goals “Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges…” As of today, Globalvia has ISO 9001, 14001, OHSAS 18001, UNE-EN 13816 and Ports Specific Referential Standard. It certification and has developed various CSR Strategic plans. Globalvia upholds a commitment in  Certifications on Quality, Environmental and Health & Safety Standards conducting its business  CSR Strategic Plan (and specific to Concessions) around the  Environmental Impact Declaration environmental preservation and the struggle against  Certifications on Quality, Environmental and Health & Safety Standards climate change During 2014 Globalvia has continued to implement global quality, environmental and health and safety standards to address the environmental and social challenges related to its activity. • ISO certification 9001, is the internationally recognized standard for the quality management of businesses. It applies to the processes and services Globalvia supplies, and prescribes systematic control of activities to ensure that customers needs are met. During 2014 the following subsidiaries are certified: Terminal Polivalente de Castellón, Metro de Sevilla,N6 and GSJ (20 centers in total). http://www.aenor.es/aenor/certificacion/buscador/fichacertificado.asp? empresaAenor=AEN&codigo=112031#.VQCuM_xwuZ4 (only Group) • ISO certification 14001, Maps out a framework that a company or organization can follow to set up an effective environmental management system and helps identify and control Globalvia’s environmental impact and constantly improve its environmental performance. During 2014 the following subsidiaries are certified: Metro de Sevilla, N6 and GSJ (19 centers in total). http://www.aenor.es/aenor/certificacion/buscador/fichacertificado.asp? empresaAenor=AEN&codigo=112032#.VQCuffxwuZ4 (only Group) • OHSAS 18001, is an internationally Standard for occupational health and safety management systems. It exists to help all kinds of organizations put in place demonstrably sound occupational health and safety performance (8 centers, plus 6 pending formalization). • Other Standards certification: Tranvía de Parla is certified in UNE-EN 13816 to guarantee a high level of quality in the public service transport and Terminal Polivalente de Castellón is specifically certified in a Spanish Ports Standard. 40 40 V. ENVIRONMENTAL PRINCIPLES V.1 Environmental assessment, policy and goals The scope of Globalvia’s certification refers to management (acquisition, design, operation, maintenance, control and monitoring) of infrastructure concessions (roads, highways, railways and ports), the conservation, operation and maintenance of roads, highways and railways and the maintenance and operation of the port for handling containers and general cargo. Its includes 12 Globalvia’s centers: 8 highways, 1 railway, 1 port with a majority stake, 1 Country Office and Headquarters. Moreover, Globalvia promotes the certification of those companies where it has a representative stake: 7 centers (Auto-Estradas XXI in Portugal, GSJ, M-50 and N6 in Ireland, AUNETI in Mexico, Hospital del Sureste and Hospital de Son Dureta in Spain).  CSR strategic plan (and specific to Concessions) With the objective of assessing Globalvia’s situation regarding Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) and devising the lines of actions necessary to lead its commitment to sustainable development, an internal diagnosis on CSR has been carried out in 2011, as well as a comparative study of its shareholders and leading competitors, positioning on this subject; with the aim of better defining, from the obtained results, the sustainability Globalvia CSR logotype guidelines for the forthcoming years. As a result of the conclusions reached, the Company pledged a Strategic Plan to horizon year 2014 to establish the framework and guidelines to be followed by the Company in this field. Globalvia has decided to continue with the same strategic lines of this CSR Plan throughout 2015. The Strategic Plan defines global short, medium and long term initiatives for each key issue needed to develop CSR at Globalvia. The implemented actions or initiatives related to this matter and focusing on environment are described in the next chapter “Implementation of environmental actions”.  Environmental Impact Declaration Spanish legislation establishes the obligation to prepare an Environmental Impact Declaration, prior to the administrative decision related to the authorization and development of constructions and activities, is adopted. The process starts with the Environmental Impact Assessment Procedure, where the General Directorate of Quality and Environmental Assessment examines the record sent by the Highways Directorate. The dossier includes an informative study, an environmental impact study and the result of public information. 41 41 V. ENVIRONMENTAL PRINCIPLES V.1 Environmental assessment, policy and goals Once analyzed, the General Directorate of Quality and Environmental Assessment submits to the Highways Directorate a report detailing various alternatives / performances considered, the content of the environmental impact study and protected natural areas affected. The Environmental Impact Declaration includes: › Environmental adaptation of the layout. › Soils protection and conservation. › Water system protection. › Territorial permeability and wildlife protection. › Cultural heritage protection. › Noise pollution. › Location of quarries, spoil, landfill and ancillary facilities. › Defense against erosion, environmental restoration and landscape work integration. › Monitoring and surveillance. 42 42 V. ENVIRONMENTAL PRINCIPLES V.2 Implementation of environmental actions “…undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and…” Here are few concrete actions that support the implementation of environmental policies, reduce environmental risks, and respond to environmental incidents:  Collaboration agreement with Abadía de Montserrat Foundation  Training on ISO, OHSAS and other Standards certifications  CSR Strategic Plan (and specific to Concessions) implementation  Túnel de Sóller archeological site  Underwater photography contest  User awareness in waste management  Maintaining the Universal Path Carara: volunteering program  Son Espases University Hospital: Energy Efficiency Plan  “Movimiento ECO”, companies against fire  Sustainable mobility 11 Animal Rescue Program  Collaboration agreement with Abadía de Montserrat Foundation In the framework of the CSR Strategic Plan, it is highlighted the importance of working with communities around Globalvia's assets. Therefore, from the Department of Communication and CSR, it was considered a very good opportunity to collaborate with the Montserrat 2025 Foundation whose aim is to maintain, promote and encourage the social, spiritual, cultural and ecological values of the Monastery and the Sanctuary. Throughout 2014 Globalvia collaborated in one of the priority actions for the Monastery: ensuring water supply and supervising fire protection equipment of the Sanctuary Montserrat (Barcelona). Globalvia is now analyzing the next action to work for in 2015. Globalvia’s CEO visited Abadía de Montserrat “…encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies.” 43 43 V. ENVIRONMENTAL PRINCIPLES V.2 Implementation of environmental actions Abadía de Montserrat is made up of different buildings: museum, hotel and residential areas. These facilities are equipped with fire protection systems and external networks hydrants that cover the entire area and must operate simultaneously. Abadía de Montserrat  Training on ISO, OHSAS and other Standards certifications Within the Company’s training and development plan, there is a specific learning session related to Quality, Environmental and Health & Safety issues that is given during the Coming in Welcome session. Apart from that there have been specific sessions to raise the awareness of these subjects in the organization: “OHSAS 18001” (Headquarters, April), “Quality and Environmental Management System” (Chile Country Office, September), “Health and Safety Management System” (Headquarters, November), etc. This content is known as Training on Quality, Environmental and Health & Safety Management System and is given to all Globalvia’s employees, following a scheme that includes: › Management system definition focusing en environmental issues › Environment, pollution and sustainable development definition › Environmental Management System: objectives and processes (identification and analysis / evaluation of environmental issues, identification and analysis / evaluation of legal requirement compliances, targets and planning, operational control and monitoring) › ISO 14001 Requirements: general requirements, environmental policy, planning, implementation and operation, controlling and monitoring, Board review › OHSAS 18001 Requirements: general requirements, Health and Safety policy, planning, implementation and operation, controlling and monitoring, Board review 44 44 V. ENVIRONMENTAL PRINCIPLES V.2 Implementation of environmental actions Related to the last point, the final Board review has recently stated that: › The Quality, Environmental and Health & Safety Management System implementation has required a remarkable effort throughout the organization. › Specific objectives have been defined for each Concession to reduce Integrating environmental impact and health & safety risks. environmental protection in the  CSR Strategic Plan (and specific on Concessions) implementation management policy of infrastructures is a The CSR Strategic Plan involves the entire Company and enables the CSR constant challenge in strategy to be deployed throughout all business areas through specific Globalvia's activity initiatives adapted to the social reality of the different communities in which Globalvia is present. Among the different strategic lines governing the CSR strategy there is a specific one related to Environment where the Globalvia upholds a commitment in conducting its business around the environmental preservation and the struggle against climate change. Globalvia has the following commitment with the environment: “Reduction of the environmental impact of Globalvia’s activities, also maintaining a respectful approach that benefits the environment”. The overcome this statement, there are two core objectives for the whole organization: • Promoting improvements and innovation projects with an environmental impact • Diagnosis of the environmental impact of operations through a single Environmental Management System for the entire Group. The system's support is mainly based on comprehensive systems certified under standards that contribute to reducing environmental risk, contemplating compliance with both the law and the various international commitments assumed as well as with internal regulations Globalvia also defines a group of objectives to be applied on each phase of the business engagements: • Project › Maintaining strict laws’ consideration and excellent performing of the environmental studies. › Studying and integrating minimization measures concerning acoustic protection, draining waters treatment, landscaping and ecological passages. 45 45 V. ENVIRONMENTAL PRINCIPLES V.2 Implementation of environmental actions • Construction › Including specific environmental considerations in the building contracts. › Minimizing the impact by means of environmental training, environmental monitoring, archeological follow up and recovering and reintegrating affected areas. › Environmental Impact Analysis review and follow up in order to identify, predict, evaluate and mitigate the biophysical, social, and other relevant effects of Globalvia's activity. • Operation › Cooperating with the Environmental Management System, not only in terms on monitoring, but conducting the appropriate initiatives to mitigate the environmental impact. Aligned with these objectives, Globalvia plans to perform the following initiatives for the period 2013-2015: • Joining the Carbon Disclosure Project (CPD): Along with Globalvia’s commitment to environmental preservation comes the need to know the impact of its activities and to clearly expose to the stakeholders both the measures and the actions towards it’s reduction. The CDP provides a disclosure capability, allowing Globalvia to provide visibility to its stakeholders and also to obtain a disclosure and efficiency score that allows itself to analyze the effectiveness of its policies against market players. In 2014 M50 Concession completed the submission of the CDP response for the reporting years 2012 and 2013, which is available to the public on its website. Good environmental practices: stickers • Energy Efficiency Plan: Strategies to reduce the environmental impact aim to make less polluting processes and anticipate future regulations that affect the Company's business, particularly in terms of greenhouse gas emissions and waste management. As a result, Globalvia has planed to launch an Energy Efficiency Plan during next year. To do so, it is required that the Company conducts an energy audit at the corporate Head Offices and concessions to identify potential energy-saving opportunities. The energy audit consists in a situation analysis that provides information on the operation of the building, the level of demand for energy used by services, the operation of its power systems and facilities and the condition of the components, energy consumed and associated operating costs. After that some targets of reduction will be established through the implementation of energy efficiency measures. 46 46 V. ENVIRONMENTAL PRINCIPLES V.2 Implementation of environmental actions On the other hand, Globalvia has developed a specific CSR strategic plan in Costa Rica. Ruta 27 CSR strategic plan activities are split into three action pillars: Education (2011-2012), Environment (2013) and Fauna (2014). The actions developed in 2014 are described in this report.  Túnel de Sóller archeological site Since the XIII century Arab site was discovered in November 2011, the project managers have done important research and outreach with support of companies like Globalvia. In 2014 the project included management of information and study of the recovered materials. Panoramic of the archeological site  Underwater photography competition Globalvia collaborated with the Club Naútico de Sóller by promoting marine ecosystem assessment; for that reason, an underwater photography competition was organized.  User awareness in waste management Globalvia has designed posters with awareness messages to users and these have been placed along highways. Moreover, Globalvia has delivered travel bags to all users in order to store the waste generated during their trip and throw them in the appropriate place at other destination. Awareness message (Aconcagua Highway) 47 Delivery of travel bags (Ruta 27 Highway) 47 V. ENVIRONMENTAL PRINCIPLES V.2 Implementation of environmental actions  Maintaining the Universal Path Carara Globalvia is one of the main companies that supported the project to build the Universal Path in Carara National Park (Costa Rica). With this infrastructure, people with different disabilities can visit the park without any limitations. In 2014 Globalvia has begun a volunteering program focused on cleaning and maintaining this sidewalk and it is scheduled to be running during all this year 2015. Carara National Park (Costa Rica) Globalvia volunteering program  Son Espases University Hospital: Energy Efficiency Plan The measures contained in the phase I of the plan focused on reducing energy consumption are: lighting optimisation at common zones air conditioning optimisation during off peak hours continuous monitoring of lighting and air conditioning Son Espases University Hospital: common zones 48 48 V. ENVIRONMENTAL PRINCIPLES V.2 Implementation of environmental actions  “Movimiento Eco”, companies against fire Globalvia contributes and promotes the socio-economic and cultural development of the Transmontana region by joining the “Movimiento Eco” (“Eco Movement”). This initiative aims to protect the value of forests through the development of actions and the dissemination of messages that mobilize citizens and encourage the practice of attitudes that prevent fires and the risk behaviors that cause them. Through promoting civil awareness about the need to preserve forests, the “Movimiento Eco” is meant to reduce the number of forest fires and the consequent decrease of forests affected. “Movimiento Eco” posters  Sustainable mobility Some concessions have acquired electric vehicles in 2013. Therefore, in addition to promoting sustainable mobility, they improved the access of emergency services in case of fire. Thus, Globalvia reinforces its image as a company committed to the environment promoting the public transport instead of using an own vehicle. During 2014 Globalvia has developed different communication campaigns explaining the environmental advantages and the benefits for the sustainable development thanks to using the public transport. Mupis, jets, posters of stations and stops and vinyl inside the trains are used to spread the campaigns. In addition, in some concessions, Globalvia organizes activities with schools focused on teaching children how to use this type of Electric vehicle of Túnel de Sóller transport. 49 Public transport promotion 49 V. ENVIRONMENTAL PRINCIPLES V.2 Implementation of environmental actions 11 Animal Rescue Program In 2014 Globalvia launched a program to rescue stray pets and wild animals on Ruta 27 in Costa Rica. In alliance with the Santa Ana Herpetological Refuge, any animals found on the route can be helped. The animals rescued so far include a toucan, a boa constrictors, a iguana and many turtles, cats and dogs. With the Animal Rescue Association, any stray pets injured in accidents on the road are rescued, treated and, once cured, offered for adoption. The concessionaire’s personnel, who have been trained in animal handling, are responsible for carrying out the rescues. The animals are then passed on to vets who supervise their recovery. Animal Rescue Training Sessions 50 50 V. ENVIRONMENTAL PRINCIPLES V.3 Measurements of environmental outcomes Globalvia ​has identified and assessed all environmental issues generated as a result of its activities in all the Societies and areas included in the ISO 14001, which are:  Corporate  Ruta de los Pantanos  Concesiones de Madrid  Túnel d’Envalira  Autopista Central Gallega  Túnel de Sóller  Sociedad Concesionaria del Itata  Sociedad Concesionaria del Aconcagua  Chile Country Office  Ruta 27 11 Tranvía de Parla 12 Metro de Sevilla Moreover, there are other Societies certified in ISO 14001 with their own Management Systems:  Autopista Nuevo Necaxa-Tihuatlán, S.A. (Mexico)  M50 Concession Limited (Ireland)  Hospital del Sureste, S.A. (Spain)  Hospital Son Dureta (Spain)  N6 (Ireland)  GSJ Maintenance (Ireland) The following table shows some of the indicators identified and evaluated for each Society, that help monitoring the impact of the company on the environment: • Power consumption • Waste: solid waste generation • Water consumption • Waste: plastic containers • Paper consumption • Waste: alkaline batteries • Salt consumption (winter maintenance) • Waste: paper and cardboard • Paint consumption (road and graffiti) • Waste: fluorescent • Pesticide consumption • Waste: toner • Solvent consumption • Pruning • Vehicle fuel consumption and machinery • Waste: metal junk • Waste: batteries containing mercury • Other urban waste • Waste: electrical and electronic equipment • Waste from cleaning ditches 51 51 V. ENVIRONMENTAL PRINCIPLES V.3 Measurements of environmental outcomes Societies made ​the identification and assessment of environmental aspects, obtaining the following relevant results (measured both in highways and Concession centers and calculated per km).  Power consumption Highest levels are recorded in Túnel D’Envalira and Túnel de Sóller, due to the tunnel ventilation systems. Trams run on electricity, so power consumption is higher than in other Societies. However, the energy used in Tranvía de Parla is 100% from renewable sources. In case of Ruta 27, this indicator has been recorded since October 2013, so the data are still not representative because time series are short. Power consumption 2014 100.000 90.000 80.000 70.000 kWh / km 60.000 50.000 39.267,43 40.000 30.000 15.193,44 13.465,51 19.141,80 20.000 11.563,83 4.458,12 10.000 0 Based on the guidelines defined in Quality and Environmental Management System, Societies will continue raising awareness among its employees to reduce energy consumption and analyze energy efficiency measures implementation feasibility. In the framework of Globalvia’s Quality and Environmental Management System, some Societies have established environmental objectives in order to reduce their power consumption. The results will be analyzed at the end of 2015. 52 52 V. ENVIRONMENTAL PRINCIPLES V.3 Measurements of environmental outcomes  Water consumption Highest level is recorded in Tranvía de Parla, due to the trams’s tunnel washer. Water consumption 2014 248,93 250 200 169,41 m3 / km 150 114,69 97,53 100 75,00 82,58 68,95 45,13 32,14 42,73 50 0 Based on the guidelines defined in Quality and Environmental Management System, Societies will continue raising awareness among its employees and analyzing the best available technologies to reduce water consumption. In the framework of Globalvia’s Quality and Environmental Management System, some Societies have established environmental objectives in order to reduce their water consumption. The results will be analyzed at the end of 2015. 53 53 54 VI. ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLES 54 VI. ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLES VI.1 Anti-corruption assessment, policy and goals “Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery.” Globalvia presents the following assessments, policies, goals that prove the relevance of anti-corruption for the company.  Fraud procedure  Compliance Manual  Fraud procedure Globalvia has identified two main types of potential fraud: › Internal fraud; carried out by employees › External fraud; carried out by people / entities out of the Company The Group has established several procedures to mitigate the internal fraud: › Company Level Controls; the Company has established and adequate control environment that is transmitted from top management to all the employees. Management’s commitment to integrity and ethical behavior is effectively communicated throughout the Company, both in words and deeds. › Management incentives are balanced. Compensation policy does not promote an excessive level of interest in increasing the entity’s earnings trend. › Adequate segregation of duties. › The Company has established adequate policies and procedures for authorization and approval of transactions at the appropriate level, specifically in Purchase, Payments and Treasury areas. › Hiring policies are centrally defined at Group level. Hiring requests of the management team from subsidiaries are centrally approved. › Management shows a willingness to consult with the auditors on and address significant matters relating to Internal Control and accounting issues. › The Group has a whistleblower scheme in place in order to detect any potential fraud situation (annex of the code of ethics). › Management takes appropriate disciplinary action in response to departures from approved policies and procedures or violations of the Code of Ethics, if any. › The Group has an Internal Audit Function that monitors that Internal Control activities are being performed and policies and procedures are being duly applied. 55 55 VI. ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLES VI.1 Anti-corruption assessment, policy and goals Special consideration should be given to a recent new regulation on Spanish Penal/Criminal Law that was passed on December 2010. Although the recent amend of legislation has not yet been applied in place by Courts, Globalvia response has been to carry out together with an external advisor an exercise to identify risk map in this field as well as the potential gaps that may exist with its internal control procedures. This initiative is led by the Internal Audit Area together with the Legal and Procurement&HR Areas. The result of this task will be the achievement on an Antifraud and Crimes Procedure that shall be a binding internal procedure and that, from a penalty perspective, will help to minimize or exempt the company potential responsibility. For external fraud, the main procedures in place are focused on the safeguarding of assets (both tangible and intangible). All locations of the Group have physical access security procedures in place. Regarding intangible assets, mainly data and information stored in the computers, the Group has established access controls to the network and servers in order to prevent or detect unauthorized accesses. Additionally, all the computers have logical and physical security controls in place.  Compliance Manual The Organization and CSR Business Direction of Globalvia has defined, in May 2012 (recently updated on January 2013), a Compliance Manual that establishes the functions and responsibilities related to the identification, review and compliance with the service requirements provided by the Company. This Manual applies to offers, orders and contracts with customers and it details the following issues: › Service requirements identification, both related to Corporate and Country Offices, as well as Concessions › Internal and external services provided by Globalvia › Operating procedure, both for internal and external customer › Compliance Committee, further details are included in the next point “VI.2 Implementation of anti-corruption action” 56 56 VI. ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLES VI.2 Implementation of anti-corruption actions Globalvia has established a Compliance Committee which aim is to identify, advise, assess, warn and monitor any compliance risk. This meant as any case of receiving sanctions by statutory or regulatory violations, financial loss, or reputation loss due to non-compliances with current law, regulations, ethics codes, and best practices standards defined in QEMS procedures. Compliance Committee comprises Key Executives of following areas: › Committee Officer: Internal Audit and Risk Control Director › Legal › Organization › Labor Relationships › Finance › O&M › Construction › Tax › IT The meeting will take place twice per year in which a Compliance Report will be defined, and communicated to the Risk Management Committee, which monitors the top risks of the Group. The Compliance Report includes the following issues: › Critical regulatory issues to monitor. › Critical internal regulations issues to monitor. › Developments in regulatory areas: responsible for updating the legislation and providing full legal text as it is published in the official papers. It is also advisable to know in advance its publication and any other applicable regulations, in order to anticipate potential investments and interventions › New identified risks. › Proposed mitigation actions. Also, to report any irregular situation or potential fraud, the employee should contact immediately with General Counsel via email. Nowadays Globalvia is defining a new channel for complaints. 57 57 VI. ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLES VI.3 Measurements of anti-corruption outcomes Code of Ethics video screenshot Regarding Globalvia’s anti-corruption performance, the Company’s Internal Audit and Risk Control Direction has made the following statement: “Globalvia has not been involved in any legal cases, ruling or other events related to corruption and bribery. Globalvia performs different internal audits every year and the report is directly submitted to the CEO. Our books and accounts are subjected to statutory external audit annually. These audits are used as one of the methods of identifying any suspicious payments which could be related to bribery or corrupt behavior. There has been no such incident reported to the period.” In regard to the measurement of anti-corruption outcomes, various actions have taken place during 2014: • First semester › Internal audits of three different concessions › Compliance Committee › Update the company's Risk Map › Risk Management Committee • Second semester › Internal audits of four different concessions, one delegation and one corporate process › Compliance Committee › Risk Management Committee From these audits, a total of 121 actions were identified. This data leads us to the conclusion that the number of actions in 2014 has decreased compared to the results in 2013 (129 actions). 58 58 59 VII. CONCLUSIONS 59 VII. CONCLUSIONS VII. Conclusions Globalvia is consolidating its position as a reference player in all the countries in which it operates by conducting its business in a responsible manner and establishing trusting relationships with its stakeholders. This commitment is key to understand the effort carried out for the past three years. The company has accomplished the task to review and redefine all processes, is investing in learning and development initiatives for its employees and is making a great effort to manage environmental issues. These activities have now become part of Globalvia’s business daily operations. We care about the impact we make on the environment and this concern is totally aligned to the strategic objectives. This report shows our commitment to communicate our actions with credibility and authenticity, internally and externally, with the hope that the reward will be a better world for today and a greater hope for tomorrow. 60 60 USA IRELAND N.Y Luttrellstown Road Diswellstown 1230 Avenue of the Americas, 7th Castleknock Floor -Offices 706 y 707 New York, Dublin 15, Ireland New York 10020 Tel. +353 (0)1 823 5888 Tel. + 1 212-618-6310 Fax+ 1 212-618-6309 CHILE MEXICO Rosario Norte 100 Of. 902-904 Monte Pelvoux, 220 Int 404 Edificio Rosario Norte 100 9ª planta Edificio Virreyes Las Condes Santiago Chile Col. Lomas de Chapultepec Tel. +56 2 565 9011 Del. Miguel Hidalgo 11000 D.F. (México) Tel. +52 55 52763430 ( Oficinas Centrales) Paseo de la Castellana, 141, 5ª Planta Edificio Cuzco IV 28046 Madrid – SPAIN Tel. +34 91 456 58 50 Fax +34 91 662 56 07 61
