United Nations Global Compact Communication of Progress Welcome Welcome to PMP Recruitments’ first annual Communication Of Progress. It describes our approach to the United Nations Global Compact and it’s 10 Principles, including our performance in 2015 and our future commitments. United Nations Global Compact The United Nations Global Compact was launched in 2000 to harness the power of collective action in the promotion of responsible corporate citizenship. The Global Compact is a framework for businesses that are committed to aligning their operations and strategies with the ten universally accepted principles in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, The Environment and Anti-Corruption. United Nations Global Compact Human Rights Environment Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to internationally proclaimed human rights; and environmental challenges; Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Labour Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labour; and including extortion and bribery. Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Contents 1. A Few Words from our MD 6. Human Rights 2. Protect, Respect & Remedy Framework 7. Labour 3. Training and Development 8. Environment 4. About PMP Recruitment 9. Anti-Corruption Who We Are 10. Achievements and Targets What We Do Who We Work With 11. 2015 COP Feedback Where We Are 5. The Cordant Group Statement of Support for the UNGC Derek Skelton, Managing Director Welcome to all readers of PMP Recruitments’ first Communication Of Progress (COP) detailing the advances we have made since joining the United I’m delighted to Nations Global Compact on 22nd September 2014. welcome you to I am pleased to confirm that PMP Recruitment reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and antiPMP Recruitments’ corruption. PMP Recruitment seek to integrate the United Nations Global Compact Ten Principles first Communication into our business, for them to have a key influence on our business strategy. Of Progress. In this annual communication of progress we describe our actions taken and targets for 2016 to Derek Skelton continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and it’s Ten Principles into our business Managing Director, PMP Recruitment strategy, culture and daily operations. The Cordant Group PLC Despite some challenging market conditions, PMP Recruitment will remain committed to the United Nations Global Compact as it echoes our continuous commitment to CSR and significantly advances our 10 year ethical story. I look forward to presenting PMP Recruitments’ second Communication in 2016, with the hope to report that we have achieved all targets proposed for 2016. Protect, Respect, Remedy Framework In 2011 the UN Human Rights This framework was developed resting on three pillars: Council implemented the 1. Government’s duty to protect against all human rights abuse within their territory ‘Protect, Respect & Remedy and control by third parties, including business enterprises. Framework’, proposed by 2. Businesses responsibility to respect human rights regardless of the size, sector and the Special Representative of location of business, and address adverse human rights impacts which they may be involved in through undertaking a risk assessment. the UN Secretary-General on Business and Human Rights, 3. The Government must take appropriate action to provide a remedy to protect those abused by human rights. Professor John Ruggie. Protect, Respect, Remedy Framework As a way of helping to respect Human Rights and the local environment scores of shoes have been Foot problems are donated to help support Swansea’s homeless common amongst rough population from our Swansea branch. PMP sleepers because, in wet weather, they have no Recruitment have made the donation to the charities facilities to dry their feet ‘Zac’s Place’ and ‘Rough Edges’, who work with or spare shoes to change homeless and vulnerable people in the local area. into, so we’re delighted to receive this donation of waterproof shoes from We provide hundreds of temporary staff to Swansea’s PMP Recruitment. largest warehouse and for some workers, when leaving the assignments, return the trainers to us and we are unable to Liz Hinds issue these out to new employees so we end up with a surplus Volunteer, Zac’s Place of trainers. Donating them to a charity like Zac’s made sense to us as it means we can help homeless people in our community. Helen Buckingham Swansea Branch Manager Training & Development Stronger Together Joining Stronger Together in 2014 was something PMP Recruitment’s Managing Director, Derek Skelton felt very strongly about and over the last 2 years a considerable amount PMP Recruitment are committed of work has been done in order for PMP to remain compliant with the initiative. In to investing in their people and order to create awareness of Stronger Together and it’s aim amongst employees PMP’s Managing Director set aside a budget to fund 30% of all senior management staff to supporting them through Training attend the external Stronger Together Workshop between 2014-2015 and for all the Senior Management team to have attended by 2016. As a Recruitment agency PMP Recruitment and Development Programmes. are heavily involved in educating not only their employees but the many thousands of assignment based employees they recruit on a daily basis, therefore training their employees PMP Recruitment are committed to developing their employees in the area of Stronger Together gives them the ability to successfully cascade down professional skills to advantage both the business and the accurate information to all assignment based employees. individual. To support this objective PMP Recruitments’ Training and Development team offer programmes to suit all employees needs. In addition to this, all employees undergo an extensive Empowering our employees knowledge is key to Onboarding process upon joining the business. imbedding the Stronger Together aim of reducing worker exploitation into our business. Derek Skelton Managing Director Ethical & Compliance PMP’s experienced Learning and Development team work closely with all functional areas of the business to develop training courses to meet the needs of all employees. In 2014 they collaborated with the Internal Compliance team to develop an Ethical and Compliance workshop to be delivered to all employees across the UK. This one day training course focused on ensuring all employees fully understood the importance of carrying out the correct processed and procedures involved in placing an assignment based employee on site. As a recruitment agency it’s particularly important that we and our client meet all current legislation from all governing bodies involved in the supply chain. The Learning and Development team received outstanding feedback from employees expressing it gave them the confidence they needed to re-assure them they were carrying out the correct procedures, as a result, the course is still being delivered across the business and in 2016 PMP Recruitment have plans to collaborate with 2 key clients who will be attending the Ethical and Compliant training course. Student Placement Scheme My placement experience at PMP In 2014 PMP Recruitment made the decision Recruitment has taught me more to launch a student placement scheme and than I ever imagined. Being given real recruit an undergraduate student to work life tasks and responsibility within the company has helped me grow in the within their Human Resource Department. working environment and enhanced Students participating in this scheme are subject to a development process focusing on my confidence on a personal level. assisting the HR Department in all it’s functions to provide an outstanding HR service to a I hope that the experience and £200m turnover business, as well as implementing Company initiatives, in respect of ethical knowledge I have gained during and compliant practices for all its staff and workers. my placement will increase my PMP Recruitment have benefited from recruiting an undergraduate student as it provides them employability in the future. I would with a resource for specialist projects as well as giving them an opportunity to see potential advise anyone to undergo a 12 month future employees in practise before making a full time appointment. By advertising their placement with PMP Recruitment Student Placement Scheme to local Universities it has given local students the opportunity to put their knowledge into practise, helping them bridge the gap between higher education and and experience the most valuable, the work place to increase there employability upon graduating. worthwhile year yet! Charlotte Rathbone Student Placement Time Off For Training Policy PMP Recruitment are committed to ensuring PMP Recruitment have enabled me all employees are adequately trained and to develop my IT skills by funding understand that some training courses/studying an Intermediate Level IT course recognised at European level for may take place outside of the business. Microsoft software. This has enabled In order to facilitate this PMP Recruitment have developed a Time Off For Training Policy me to work more effectively, feel which sets out what all eligible employees with a statutory right to request time off for more confident achieving goals and training/studying are entitled to. This ensures that all employees are supported through the deliver a more advanced standard process and are aware of their entitlements. of work which has contributed to At PMP It’s important to understand that it’s not essential that the time off leads to an award me gaining promotion within the or qualification, the most important requirement for us is that the training/studying being Company. carried out will help improve business performance and the employees effectiveness within Debra Biggs the business. PMP Recruitment make every effort to support employees when undertaking HR Advisor training/studying and where feasible will seek to offer financial support. Who We Are 20 Years experience 480 Part of the Cordant Group National Coverage employees As a privately-owned company PMP operate alongside other well known recruitment agencies under the Cordant Group Brand. The Cordant Group incorporated in 1957, remains the second largest privately owned recruitment company with a national footprint in excess of 160 branches nationwide. The Cordant Spirit: Values & Vision Our Mission We will transform the way recruitment and facilities services are delivered around the globe, offering customers a unique and superior service, by utilising leading technology and creating an environment where talented leaders and game-changers who share our passion for disruptive innovation are given the opportunity to succeed and change their lives. The Cordant Spirit: Values & Vision Candour Opportunity Relentlessness Disruptive Innovation ‘We will be open and honest with ‘For people to succeed.’ ‘Desire to succeed.’ ‘We will continually challenge ourselves and others.’ convention.’ We will inspire, support and invest We are driven to be the best. We We value and respect candour, in our people who will share in have a relentless desire to succeed, We will continually challenge the encouraging open and honest feedback recognising that our reputation and the our success. We will provide the be the best, and deliver superior status quo, push boundaries and trust people place in us depends on opportunity, inspiration, investment services which create long-term utilise leading edge technology, to being honest with ourselves and others. and support to enable our people optimise how we work, to deliver value for the business and our to realise their full potential because customers. superior value-added services. Collaboration they belong to our family and are ‘We will work as a team and succeed core to our success. together.’ We put the needs of the team above our own, respect the role others play and work collaboratively to ensure we achieve our vision. What We Do Here at PMP we know that the key to a successful organisation is through hiring and PMP Recruitment are a leading retaining great people, so in 2015 we developed and published a set of HR policies that name in the recruitment industry are directed at creating an environment that will attract, develop, motivate and reward employees. The working environment at PMP is enhanced by lifestyle-friendly policies specialising in the light industrial that support human rights, citizenship, health and safety, disability, personal and career development and high standards of ethical and professional conduct. and logistic markets, powered by our national expertise and As we’ve grown, it’s remained crucial for our CSR policy to be inclusive of our entire workforce as we engage all employees to help to introduce new initiatives into our daily experienced resources. operations, priding ourselves on being at the forefront of all ethical practices. Our customised, flexible workforce solutions include temporary and contract staffing, peak season/high volume staffing, contingent workforce management as well as permanent hires. As a privately-owned staffing company with more than 20 years experience in the industry, PMP Recruitment know what it means 480 15,000-25,000 Number of internal employees Number of assigment based employees* and what it takes to be a dedicated partner, and are extremely committed to the long-term success of their clients. *The number of assignment based employees varies in accordance with our client requirements. E.g. The number of assignment based employees rises for some clients in quarter four due to pre-Christmas production. Who We Work With With over 25 years experience in the temporary and permanent recruitment markets PMP Recruitment work with an impressive client portfolio, including some well know retailer and Our commitment to exceed our popular brands: client and candidate expectations • Nestle • Hoover starts at every front desk and • Greencore • United Biscuits • Del Monte • The Royal Mint reaches across to our Business • BT • Norbert Dentressangle Development and Account • Royal Mint • Wavin Management, Administrative • SOHO Sandwich • Amazon Professional, On-site Leader, • Sainsbury’s • Kinnerton Confectionery Team Leader and Business Centre • Bakkavor • Ocado • Tesco • Weetabix Direct Management team. Who We Are PMP Recruitment have an extensive presence across the UK with 320 managed locations we’re a proud employer to tens of thousands of temporary agents, with 15 Business Centres/Branches listed below and over 300 on site locations UK wide. Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and PMP Recruitment became supporters of the Stronger Together initiative in May 2014 and Principle 2: Make sure that they shortly after in January 2015 qualified to are not complicit in human become Business Partners. rights abuses Stronger Together is a multi-stakeholder collaboration aiming to reduce the occurrence of As a recruitment agency joining the United Nations Global forced labour, labour trafficking and other forms of hidden third party labour exploitation. Compact Human Rights and Labour have biggest impact on our Labour exploitation is becoming an increasing problem in the UK private economy sectors business. One of the key driving forces behind us joining this such as agriculture, manufacturing, construction and domestic work, making it increasingly initiative is that we already have a positive impact on human rights challenging for recruitment agencies such as PMP Recruitment supplying to these sectors. by offering a recruitment service, by employing people and by contributing to economic and social development within the UK. Human Rights This gives PMP the confidence that everyone they’ve employed In order to implement Stronger Together has been briefed and is aware of Stronger Togethers aim. In within the business and educate not only our addition to this PMP have developed a Stronger Together Policy, committing to develop and adopt a proactive approach to internal employees but the many thousands helping to tackle hidden labour exploitation. This policy covers all recruitment branches and site locations. of assignment based employees we employee on a daily basis PMP Recruitment have made In 2015, as a way of advancing their commitment, PMP developed a Stronger Together training module including the it a mandatory requirement that all branch downloadable training video, this later became a compulsorily part of PMP’s on boarding process for all new employees. It and site locations must display the Stronger covers PMP’s Stronger Together policy along with directions Together multi-language workplace posters and actions required for individuals to become compliant with the initiative whilst reinforcing their learning, giving confidence and give all new starters a copy of the Stronger to managers that they are competent in complying with this Together worker leaflets upon induction. crucial area of compliance. It is mandatory that all new starters successfully complete this module in order to ass probation. Human Rights To further PMP’s commitment to the Stronger Together initiative in 2016, PMP’s HR Department have collaborated with the Learning and Development department to develop and deliver an ethical workshop. PMP hope to deliver this workshop to 100 internal employees by the end of 2015, with a long term vision to deliver the ethical workshop to all employees by 2017. Here at PMP we understand that the Stronger Together objective of reducing hidden third party labour exploitation will only be achieved if we, as a labour provider continue to implement good practise and engage our workforce as part of the solution, we have a key role to be aware of the potential signs of human trafficking. Human Rights In 2008 the Abacus brand within PMP obtained the Global Social Accountability SA8000 accreditation. This represents a major breakthrough, SA8000 being the first auditable social standard, created by a truly independent process. SA8000 has been recognised since 1997 and was first formed by the New York based non-profit making body ‘Social Accountability International (SAI)’. As of June 2013, it was recognised in over 72 countries across 65 industries, giving it global existence. SA8000 is a voluntary, auditable standard which encourages businesses to develop, maintain and apply socially acceptable practises to their workplace, creating a common ground for measuring social compliance in businesses across the globe. Its main objective is to ensure that Human Rights and ethical practises are applied to every individual when recruiting and continuously throughout the period of employment. SA8000 is intended to be a significant milestone in improving workplace conditions. Human Rights Alice Tepper Marlin, President and CEO of Social Accountability International (SAI) speaks about her long term visions for SA8000: Multi stakeholder vision of the world where everyone who has a stake in working conditions is pulling together. Meaning workers get exposed to less hazards, get paid a decent wage and children are in school not working long hours in factories. It also means better deals for businesses because they won’t have the worry of a bad reputation, potentially exposing them to significant risk. Human Rights As a result of successfully complying with the eight key areas measured upon audit the SA8000 authority have In order to maintain the SA8000 accreditation and continue to receive a report of good practise a rigorous audit is carried out by a registered body. Once credited with the SA8000 continuously provided Abacus certification its valid for 3 years, then within those 3 years accreditation audits are carried out 6 monthly to ensure the business is continuously meeting the required standards. The audits with a positive report of good carried out are very thorough and during Abacus’ last audit (February 2015), the auditor practise which the company visited client sites, privately interviewed internal/assignment based employees at random, carried out detailed health and safety check in branch and on site and requested a copy of all uses to share with it’s clients, assignment based employees working hours for the past 3 months to analyse overtime. prospective clients, assessment based employees and all internal employees. Human Rights Child Labour Age is confirmed through the presentation of a valid ID. Any Assignment based employee All audits are assessed based on aged 16-18 can only start work once the following criteria has been met: • Young Workers risk assessment to be carried out the principles of fundamental • Suitable PPE to be provided free of charge human rights principles, and it • No exposure to hazardous materials or dangerous environments measures the performance of • Only light duties are to be carried out businesses in these eight key • Don’t work more than 8 hours per day between 7am-7pm Mon-Sat only, providing they areas. aren’t attending school. The Abacus ‘Young Worker Policy’ details the requirements for the employment of Young Workers and is to be followed without exception Anti-Corruption Health and Safety Abacus follow best practice requirements for Health and Safety implementation. Abacus have up-to-date ‘Employer’s Liability Insurance’ Certificate, Risk Assessment forms and Forced Labour issue Health and Safety information to all assignment based employees in their ‘Workers Employment at Abacus is entirely voluntary. Assignment based Handbook’ and to all internal employees during their Induction process. We have a joint employees are not required to pay any form of deposit or responsibility with clients for our assignment based employees when on assignment surrender any personal identification documents, they are always and therefore check to ensure good health and safety practices are in place through risk entitled to leave site after completing their standard working assessments via the contract set up process. day and resign their positions providing they give reasonable notice. In return, Abacus will not withhold any of their salary or Freedom of Association benefits, engage in or support human trafficking of any kind, or No union or labour organisation is recognised within the company, however all assignment deal with any company utilizing forced labour. based and internal employees have the right to be a member of any trade union. Discrimination Abacus do not discriminate on any grounds against employees or job applicants. Human Rights Disciplinary Practices Abacus do not tolerate the use of corporal punishment, mental or physical coercion, or verbal abuse. The company fully supports the rights of all individuals to be treated with dignity and respect at work. The disciplinary procedures are itemised in the Company While PMP Recruitment as a Disciplinary Procedure for all to see. whole has not been audited to Working Hours achieve the SA8000 Standard, SA8000 compliance demands that overtime (i.e. normally over 40 hours per week) should not exceed 12 hours per week and always be paid at a premium rate. Abacus Ethical Worker it is nevertheless important to Policy states employees should have one day off a week or two in 14 days. Assignment based employees tend not to have a standard working week, as work is offered at an hourly rate recognise that PMP comply with variable hours depending on client requirements. There is no contractual commitment with these 8 key areas as many to work a basic number of hours other than when a Worker agrees to attend a designated shift and assignment. Under these arrangements, the basic working week is 32 hours on of the policies and procedures average. For those Assignment Based Employees who do work overtime as defined by client hours, the majority do receive a premium rate. to implement these within Abacus originated from PMP. Remuneration Abacus guarantees wages always meet at least the UK National Minimum Wage legislation and wages are paid on a weekly basis in arrears or on the 21st of each month for permanent staff. Human Rights All 29 internationally agreed In carrying out a GAP analysis the project team have identified all the policies, procedures and risk assessment forms PMP have in place that Human Rights contained within ensure they are compliant, these include: the International Bill of Human • Health and Safety Policy Rights and ILO Core Conventions • Stronger Together Policy are relevant to PMP, offering a • Young Workers Risk Assessment Form recruitment service. • Ethical Sourcing & Supply Policy In order to ensure we are compliant since joining the United Nations initiative in September 2014 our internal United Nations • Whistle blowing Policy project team have developed a GAP analysis assessing the difference in performance between PMP Recruitment and the 29 • Privacy to Personal Data Policy internationally agreed Human Rights to determine whether the Actions derived from the GAP Analysis are set out in our Achievements/ business is meeting the United Nations requirements, if not, steps Targets 2015/2016 section. needed to do so. Labour Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Labour PMP Recruitment have been stakeholders in the non profit making organisation Sedex Sedex is a not for profit membership since 2008. organisation dedicated to driving improvements in ethical and As the largest collaborative platform for sharing ethical supply chain data, Sedex is an responsible business practices in effective supply chain management solution, helping to protect and reduce risk within PMP Recruitment as well as improving our supply chain practices. global supply chains. This is predominantly done through their secure, online database which allows us and other members to store, share and report information on four key areas: • Labour Standards • The Environment • Health & Safety • Business Ethics Labour Since Sedex was officially launched in 2004 they have seen significant growth in membership numbers, their annual review in May 2012 revealed that 25,000 organisations world wide have joined Sedex in its 8 years of existence. This significant growth demonstrates the increasing importance and value of responsible procurement to businesses and a growing recognition that a collaborative approach is an effective way of driving ethical and sustainable improvements in global supply chains. Since being a stakeholder in Sedex, PMP Recruitment have benefited from a range of tools they offer including a common standard self-assessment questionnaire and market leading risk analysis tools developed in partnership with the well known risk analysis firm ‘Maplecroft’. These tools have been used to help identify areas of risk within our supply chain, enabling us to take the necessary steps to address and resolve any issues before they become costly to the business. Labour One of the main benefits for As a supplier, when we became a stakeholder in Sedex we initially completed a self assessment questionnaire and now have the freedom to choose who we share this PMP in joining Sedex is that it information with on the database, along with any other relevant ethical information we wish provides us with an efficient to provide, such as audit reports and certifications. and cost effective way of The Sedex system is very secure and confidential giving us the satisfaction that any information we provide is kept secure and confidential, we as a business have complete sharing ethical information control over who can view our data. By allowing suppliers to share the same data with with our clients and potential many customers, Sedex helps reduce the need for multiple audits, allowing both parties to concentrate on making real improvements, having confidence in who they are working with. clients, helping to cut down on PMP have really benefited from the database Sedex offers giving us the opportunity to view unnecessary paperwork and potential clients supply chain information before supplying them, this helps us to ensure that saving time and money. our supply chain is as ethical as can be. Labour PMP Recruitment have developed and • No workers are bonded or forced to work against their will internally circulated an ‘Ethical Worker • Workers are free to leave their employment, after giving Sourcing and Supply Policy’ to show ongoing reasonable notice, without losing any pay or benefits to which they are entitled. commitment to ensuring that all workers are sourced and supplied ethically as well • Workers are given a choice whether or not they wish to work overtime and are free to leave the work site after their shifts end. as being treated fairly and with respect • Workers are not required to pay deposits (e.g. for uniforms, throughout employment. personal protective equipment, tools etc.) Within this policy it illustrates that all forms of forced and compulsory labour are forbidden, • Original ID papers are kept for no longer than the time to copy setting out the correct procedures, practises and checks employees should carry out in order them. to be compliant. Ethical Worker Sourcing & Supply Policy The Ethical Worker Sourcing and Supply Policy also states PMP’s approach to recruiting people under the age of 18. PMP Recruitment do offer work to those aged between 16-18 years, however, a young workers risk assessment form must be completed prior to them being placed at a client site, the client must also be made aware to ensure that the hours and type of work being carried out is suitable. The policy also states that under no circumstances will PMP Recruitment recruit anyone under the age of 16. Supporting the Ethical Trading InitiativeEMPLOYMENT IS FREELY FREEDOM OF CHOSEN ASSOCIATION & THE Slavery and bonded labour are RIGHT TO COLLECTIV totally unacceptable. Some 20.9 BARGAINING ARE million people globally are forced to RESPECTED The Ethical Trading Initiative is a leading work for their employers. Tens of thousands of workers all alliance of companies, trade unions and NGOs the world lose their jobs every ye for attempting to form or join a tr that promotes respect for workers’ rights union or improve working condit Some even lose their lives. around the globe. Their vision is to create a world where all workers are free from exploitation and discrimination, where workers can enjoy conditions of freedom, security and equity. CHILD LABOUR SHALL LIVING WAGES Upon committing to support the ETI, PMP Recruitment have affirmed to support and NOT BE USED ARE PAID implement the ETI Base code within the business, taking on the responsibility to improve the 215 million children work to support Roughly half the world’s popula their families, missing out on still lives on two dollars a day. If working conditions of the people they employee. education and often damaging their people can’t feed their families health. This reinforces the cycle of an adult’s wage, they may send The ETI Base Code is a universal framework which covers many important issues including ‘Freedom poverty. children to work. of association and the right to collective bargaining’. Tens of Thousands of workers all over the world loose their jobs every year for attempting to form or join a trade union or improve their working conditions. Some even loose their lives! Here at PMP we understand the importance of this and as a result anyone employed by PMP Recruitment has the right to join a trade union. If an employee decides to join a trade union they will not be treated differently or discriminated against on any grounds. NO DISCRIMINATION IS REGULAR EMPLOYME PRACTISED IS PROVIDED Women and certain minorities are Most workers can be laid off wh Discrimination Policy As a business PMP are committed to promoting diversity and providing equal opportunity to all areas of the business from recruitment, employment and career progression to learning and development. PMP try to ensure that all applicants, employees, workers and visitors (including clients and suppliers) receive equal treatment irrespective of ‘The Protected Characteristics’ which include their sex, marital or civil partnership status, sexual orientation, gender reassignment, race, colour, ethnic or national origins, religion or belief, disability or age. PMP do not tolerate unlawful discrimination, victimisation or harassment and bullying and those responsible may be subject to disciplinary proceedings under the Company’s disciplinary policy. 30 nationalities 59% PMP have an ethically diverse workforce, of their workforce are female employing over 30 different nationalities Environment As a non-manufacturer, instead a labour provider, the main Principle 7: Businesses should support a risk areas in implementing the UNGC and it’s 10 principles is in respect to Human Rights and Labour. However, PMP precautionary approach to Recruitment are continuously looking for ways to make progress environmental challenges; and since joining the UNGC have examined ways in which they can reduce their impact on the environment. Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote A target for PMP Recruitment is to reduce their impact on the environment, which includes factors that contribute to climate greater environmental responsibility; change, via a commitment to continual improvement and to give maximum co-operation in complying with environmental Principle 9: Encourage the development and legislation and regulations. As a result, all branch locations have been supplied with recycling facilities and are repeatedly diffusion of environmentally friendly encouraged to use energy saving light bulbs. PMP Recruitment technologies. also insist that all IT equipment is switched off when not in use to prevent the unnecessary and needless waste of energy. Environment In addition to this, as a way of In October 2014 PMP Recruitment invested heavily in new technology and a central wifi system to facilitate this for the business. The investment has aided and improved reducing paper consumption collaboration between internal employees through the facilities Google has to offer such as all computer devices within the conference calling and hangouts. By December 2014 all employees were trained in Google and at least one employee per branch was given the ‘Google Champion’ title acting as a first company have been set to print point of contact for any queries or further training employees required. double sided and have to be Since Google has been fully integrated into the business employees have been encouraged changed manually to change to use the Google hangout facility as apposed to travelling for meetings. This has helped to reduce the company’s impact on the environment through reducing their carbon footprint the printer settings. as well as acting as s cost saving for the business. Anti-Corruption The policy states that employees will face disciplinary action where it is deemed that the employee has offered, promised or Principle 10: Businesses should work against given a ‘financial or other advantage’ to another person where they intend the advantage to bring about improper performance corruption in all its forms, including extortion or acquire new business or to personally gain as a consequence. and bribery. Any employee who receives a gift of any kind from an existing or potential business contact or candidate must disclose the fact PMP Recruitment are compliant with the of the gift, its nature and the identity of the sender to his/her Bribery Act and in 2015 developed and Manager / Human Resources. If the gift is anything other than a small token of appreciation having no substantial financial value, published an Anti-Corruption policy to the employee will be required to return the gift, this is particularly important at Christmas when clients send in gifts to specific ensure all employees do not participate in members of staff. any corruption, bribery or extortion. PMP Recruitment only operate in the UK significantly reducing the risk of potential fraud and corruption from overseas. Achievements & Targets 20% of employees have All SMT to attend external attended external Stronger Stronger Together Workshop by Together Workshop 2016/17 Develop content to align with the UNGC Developed & published a 16 page To communicate PMP’s ethical & deliver it as a training course to 100 written record of PMP’s ethical Delivered Ethical & Compliant update story to all major clients and employees. Collaborating 2 key clients journey over the last ten years. to all 375 staff key stakeholders. attending this course. +20% 10yrs Joined United Nations £ Developed a common set of HR To communicate PMP’s £ To deliver a series of workshops Global Compact and were Policies for the Recruitment division 2014/2015 ethical covering key policies on: grated Business Partners of which are published in a common achievements to 25% of Stronger Together location, easily accessible for all their key clients. • Discrimination Written and employees. Brief SMT on the • Data Protection internally published policy a ‘Anti-Bribery • Grievance Policy’ 2015 COP Feedback As a stakeholder of the UNGC PMP Recruitment would appreciate any feedback and comments on its 2015 Communication Of Progress. PMP Recruitment became members of the UNGC in September 2014 therefore this is PMP Recruitment’s first annual Communication Of Progress. As part of our commitment to the UNGC we will submit an annual Communication Of Progress to the UN office in New York. HR Department PMP Recruitment 1 Hazelwood Road PMP Recruitment Northampton Responsive Workforce Solutions NN1 1LG Tel: 01604 887200 Be Agile
