COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2014 1 TABLE OF CONTENTS 4 INTRODUCTION 15 AVINOR WILL BE A DRIVING FORCE 28 KEY FIGURES AVINOR GROUP IN THE WORK ON CLIMATE AND 5 ABOUT AVINOR ENVIRONMENTAL CHALLENGES 29 AVINOR SHALL BE A PROFESSIONAL WITHIN AVIATION AND ATTRACTIVE EMPLOYER 6 AVINOR’S CSR PRIORITIES 15 Avinor’s environmental policy and goals 29 Collaboration 6 Stakeholder dialogue 15 Greenhouse gas emissions 29 Expertise development 6 Dialogue with employee representatives 16 Emission of greenhouse gases from 29 Recruitment 6 Four focus areas air traffic 30 Decline in breaches of working hours 7 PROMISES MADE IN THE 2013 REPORT 18 Emission of greenhouse gases from provisions airport operations 30 Preventive HSE and abscence due to 8 ROLE IN SOCIETY: illness work 19 Transport to and from airports ENSURE GOOD AVIATION SERVICES FOR ALL OF NORWAY 20 Energy 31 PRUDENT BUSINESS CONDUCT 8 The social benefit of aviation is significant 21 Climate adoptation 31 Procurementstrategy and growing 21 Aircraft and helicopter noise 31 Declaration on related parties 8 Strategy for the Northern Areas 22 Discharges to water and soil 31 Code of conduct 8 High safety and security level 22 Emission and discharge permits 31 Compliance-function 9 High degree of reliability 23 The Environmental Project 31 Whistleblowing 9 Good accessibility 24 De-icing aircraft and runway systems 10 Strong results and financial challenges 24 Other discharges to water and soil 11 Major investments in increased capacity 24 Impact on landscape and natural 11 Innovative ramps environment 12 Research and development with focus 26 Consumption of products and materials on safety 26 Waste 13 Avinor’s reputation strengthened 26 Air quality 14 Avinor as a sponsor 27 Cultural monuments and cultural environments The report has been prepared in accordance to the Global Reporting Initiative guidelines (G4/Core) 2 3 INTRODUCTION The Avinor group reaffirms its support of the Ten and development in regions and urban centres – all csr work means continuously setting new goals. Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in depend on a well-functioning aviation sector. The report shows that we have not achieved al the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment Moreover, the aviation industry contributes to about our previously set goals in all areas. However, it and Anti-Corruption. This Communication on 60 000 jobs. The analysis also documents that the documents that progress has been made, and Progress describes our actions to continually health sector and hospital structure in Norway are presents our plans for further efforts. Reducing improve the integration of the Global Compact and based on good accessibility to air transport services. greenhouse gas emissions is particularly challenging, its principles into our business strategy, culture In brief, the report shows that aviation is a key part as the aviation industry is growing and we need to and daily operations. We commit to share this of public transport in Norway. This is particularly the expand capacity at major airports. information with our stakeholders using our primary case for Northern Norway. channels of communication. The start of 2015 has shown clear indications of To prevent significant climate change, emissions of slower growth in air traffic, compared with previous Avinor’s social mission is to ensure that Norwegian greenhouse gases must be reduced by up to 80 per years. In the short term, Avinor is prepared for aviation operates in a safe, efficient and cent in the oecd countries by 2050, compared with greater uncertainty in the Group’s earnings. The environmentally friendly manner. At the same time, 1990. This requires measures in all sectors, including development is faced with measures related to we will ensure good availability for all groups of aviation. Consequently, Avinor’ s corporate social increased efficiency and cost reductions. In 2014, travellers – in close cooperation with the airlines and responsibility work focuses on environment and a modernization programme was initiated which other players in the aviation industry. The objective climate measures in particular, although other areas aims to reduce the Group’s operating expenses. of this report is to highlight how we fulfil our social have also been identified as important. The report mission, whilst assuming active responsibility for identifies four focus areas: Avinor’s csr efforts are based on the oecd’s the environmental and social consequences of our • Perform our role in society in a safe, efficient and guidelines for responsible business. In 2014, the operations. environmentally friendly manner and ensure company joined un Global Compact. This report good aviation services for all of Norway was prepared in accordance with the principles In 2014, Avinor made an analysis of the social • Be a driving force in the work on climate and of the Global Reporting Initiative (G4). impact of aviation. The analysis documents how environmental challenges dependent Norwegian society is on aviation: • Be a good, professional employer Commercial and industrial undertakings, civil • Ensure responsible business management protection and emergency preparedness, settlement Dag Falk-Petersen, CEO 4 ABOUT AVINOR More about Avinor Avinor is a wholly-owned state limited company In addition, the Ministry of Transport and Annual report and quarterly reports under the Ministry of Transport and Communications regulates the aviation fees. The Avinor’s annual report consists of the directors’ Communications. Avinor is responsible for the 46 Ministry of Transport and Communications is the report, financial statements with notes, information on corporate governance, state-owned airports and for air navigation services highest authority for Norwegian aviation and also declaration from the board and general for civil and military aviation in Norway. Twelve lays down the Civil Aviation Authority’s regulations manager, including the external auditor’s airports are operated in cooperation with the that have consequences for Avinor’s operations. report. Financial reports are also prepared Norwegian Armed Forces. As from 1 June 2014, the and published on a quarterly basis, showing air navigation services are organised in a separate the key figures and accounts, as well as a brief company which is wholly-owned by Avinor. This statement on finances. Avinor’s annual and VISION quarterly reports are available at Avinor’s report also includes air navigation services. There We create valuable relationships! website. were 3 214 permanent employees in the Group at the end of the year. (3 156 in 2013). MISION Article 10 plan Avinor shall develop and operate Article 10 of Avinor’s articles of association Avinor’s task is to facilitate safe, environmentally a safe, efficient and sustainable state that the board shall prepare a report friendly and efficient aviation across Norway. each year on the company’s overall activities, aviation system throughout Norway including plans for the future and submit this to The total number of passengers (scheduled flights, the Ministry of Transport and Communications. charter and offshore) at Avinor’s airports increased VALUES The document is available to the public and is in 2014 to 50 million. This is a growth of 2.7 per cent • Open • Responsible • Dynamic called the Article 10 plan. At least every fourth compared with 2013. This is a new passenger record • Customer-oriented year – once every parliament election period for the fifth year in a row. International traffic has – Avinor’s Article 10 Plan forms the basis for been growing more quickly than domestic traffic a report on Avinor’s activities to Norway’s parliament, the Storting. for several years, and accounted for 39.1 per cent of Avinor’s total number of passengers in 2014. In Avinor’s contribution to the national total for Avinor’s airports, 861 000 take-offs and transport plan 2018-2027 landings were made, up 2.9 per cent compared with The Norwegian National Transport Plan (NTP) the previous year. This is in addition to overflights presents the Norwegian government’s in Norwegian airspace, which rose by nearly 10 per transport policy. It forms the basis of comprecent. hensive political assessments, efficient use of policy instruments and strengthened interaction between the various modes The shares in Avinor AS are wholly-owned by the of transport. The NTP is considered by the Norwegian state as represented by the Ministry Standing Committee on Transport and of Transport and Communications. The Ministry Communications, who presents its of Transport and Communications manages recommendation to the Norwegian the Norwegian state’s ownership of Avinor, and Parliament. Aviation infrastructure is also addressed in the report www.ntp.dep.no determines the Group’s financial framework. 5 AVINOR’S CSR PRIORITIES Avinor’s csr work is based on the oecd’s guidelines in the effort to realise the Group’s objectives. In 2013, for responsible business, and on the csr expectations Avinor enjoyed good cooperation with the employee laid down in Avinor’s articles of association and the representatives, both as regards ongoing case Norwegian Accounting Act. In 2014, the company processing and more comprehensive processes. The joined un Global Compact. This report was prepared cooperation model between employee representatives in accordance with the principles of the Global and management is being developed further to ensure Reporting Initiative (G4). good working conditions, stable operations and cost-effectiveness throughout the Group. Avinor’s Stakeholder dialogue employees are represented on Avinor’s board holding Avinor is an enterprise that affects the entire country four of ten seats. Representatives are also elected and its population. Broad, good contact with the by and among the employees to the boards of the people who depend on our services, or who are various subsidiaries. affected by our operations, is essential if we are to carry out our assignment well, and choose the right Four focus areas priorities. Avinor therefore conducts regular meetings Using Avinor’s strategy and stakeholder dialogue as a with the company’s stakeholders. The Group’s plan point of departure, four focus areas have been identifor dialogue with key stakeholders is renewed by fied for Avinor’s corporate social responsibility: the Group annually and updated continuously. The Perform our role in society in a safe, efficient and customers, i.e. the airlines and passengers, are our environmentally-friendly manner and ensure good key stakeholders, along with politicians at the central, aviation services for all of Norway. regional and local levels, the business community, • Be a driving force in the work on climate and the Armed Forces, as well as regulatory authorities environmental challenges within aviation and the environment. Important • Be a good, professional employer topics for these stakeholders include finances, capacity, reliability and handling of environmental • Ensure responsible business management and climate issues. Avinor also has regular, but informal contact with various special interest organiAvinor does not have a dedicated staff for corporate sations. The topics raised there include environmental social responsibility. The strategy director is and climate issues, universal design and accessibility responsible for the CSR report, and the work on the at the airports. Customer surveys are also conducted respective topics takes place in the line throughout on a regular basis. Important issues for travellers the whole organisation. include reliability, capacity and airport services. Dialogue with employee representatives The employee representatives are important partners 6 PROMISES MADE IN THE 2013 REPORT In last year’s report on csr work in Avinor, we made employees should reflect the composition of the of the discharge permit for groundwater and one several promises for implementation of measures in Norwegian population. The Group is continuously violation for waterways. There were no violations various areas. We will return to these in this year’s working to establish measures aimed at underat other airports. report. Below follows a summary of some of the represented groups. Both communication and the Avinor shall achieve a source separation rate for main promises and how they have been followed up: choices regarding recruitment channels were waste of 60 per cent: In 2014, Avinor achieved a adjusted in 2014 in order to attract more young total source separation rate of 58 per cent. Sepa• A report was to be prepared in 2014 on how aviacandidates and women. Concrete measures were rately, Oslo Airport achieved a rate of 62 per cent tion benefits society. This was launched in January initiated in 2014 to establish relationships with 2015 and is discussed in detail in this year’s report. women who have started an education programme Discharges of pfos ( fire-fighting foam containing within craft trades, for example through internships. environmental toxins). See separate account later on in the report): An assessment of risk • Safety: The 2013 report stated that: «A new process for human health and ecosystems was to be and new tools for handling nonconformities will • Climate: completed in 2014. This work has taken longer be implemented in early 2015 to bolster Avinor’s Avinor shall reduce the total greenhouse gas than estimated. Avinor is working on special action ability to carry out proactive and safety-focused emissions controlled by the Group during the plans for Oslo Airport, Kjevik and Evenes. Follow-up management.» The new tool for handling nonperiod 2012–2015, regardless of traffic growth. at various levels is also required at several airports. conformities was launched and implemented in Emission figures for 2014 were below those for 2012. June 2015. In addition to Oslo, Trondheim, Værnes and Kjevik, other airports will participate in the • Procurement: The 2013 report stated that: «70 Airport Carbon Accreditation scheme over the per cent of the contracts signed in 2013 contained next few years: Stavanger and Bergen joined the requirements for the supplier’s management of scheme in 2014. csr (environmental, working conditions, human Avinor shall be a driving force in reducing the rights). The target for 2014 is 90 per cent. The situtotal emissions of greenhouse gases from ation is that all group-wide agreements are entered Norwegian aviation: This is thoroughly accounted into with an emphasis on the environment. A system for in the 2014 report. However, there is no denying for systematic registration of human rights and that traffic growth still represents a significant working conditions is not fully in place yet, but will challenge for this objective. be developed over the course of 2015. A climate action plan will be established over the course of 2014. This work is still ongoing, • Human relations: The 2013 report states that and is scheduled to be completed in 2015 Avinor is working on a diversity strategy which will be ready in 2014: In the 2014 report, we report • Environment that Avinor’s strategic objective is to work towards Avinor shall not violate discharge permits: In ensuring that the composition of the Group’s 2014, Oslo Airport had a total of nine violations 7 ROLE IN SOCIETY: ENSURE GOOD AVIATION SERVICES FOR ALL OF NORWAY Pursuant to Avinor’s Articles of Association, Avinor’s flights are completed each year to installations on than in any other region. In order to achieve greater role in society is to «own, operate and develop a the Norwegian continental shelf. insight into Northern Norway’s unique challenges and national network of airports for the civilian sector • The importance of aviation to Norwegian tourism opportunities, and to ensure that Avinor’s services and joint air navigation services for the civilian and is substantial and increasing: Of all tourists who help address the region’s transport needs in the best military sectors. The company’s operations shall be visit Norway 34 per cent arrive by air, and this is way possible, Avinor has developed a Northern Area carried out in a safe, efficient and environmentallythe form of transport that is increasing the most. Strategy. This strategy has been developed in close friendly manner and ensure good accessibility for all Spending by air tourists in Norway amounts to cooperation with the authorities, businesses and groups of travellers». around nok 13 billion. education institutions. Avinor expects to invest • In 2013, each inhabitant in Norway took 2.7 between nok 8-13 billion in Northern Norway up The social benefit domestic flights. The highest air travel frequency to 2040. The Northern Area Strategy is available on of aviation is significant and growing is in the northernmost counties, with 6–8 flights Avinor’s website. Norway is a country with challenging topography per inhabitant. and vast distances, and Norwegian businesses are • Aviation also plays an important role for Norway’s High safety and security level oriented to international markets. These businesses decentralised education system. Furthermore, Avinor has a high safety level. There were no aviation are entirely reliant on aviation. In Norway, aviation is accessibility to air travel is of great significance for accidents in Norway with personal injuries where a key part of public transport, and essential for settleboth students and professional personnel. Avinor was a contributory party in 2014. Nor were ment, tourism, the public health service, education, there any serious aviation accidents where Avinor sports and culture. The analysis also shows that aviation is of vital contributed to the cause. Also in 2013, there were no importance to the health sector in Norway: In 2013, registered aviation accidents with personal injuries In 2014, Avinor made an analysis of the social impact more than 32 000 ambulance flight movements were in Norway where Avinor was a contributory party. of aviation in Norway. The analysis documents e.g. that: registered between Avinor’s airports. This correThere was one serious aviation incident where Avinor • Two of three Norwegians have access to an airport sponds to around 4 per cent of the total number of contributed to the cause in 2013. within a one-hour journey. 99.5 per cent of the flights in Norway. Each year, 300 000 patient flights population can manage a visit to Oslo and be back take place with scheduled flights. In addition, around Aviation safety is a key element in Avinor’s investment home on the same day. 170 000 journeys are completed each year with policy, and priority is assigned to the measures that • Aviation employs between 60 000 and 65 000 people. assistance for passengers with reduced mobility. yield the best safety benefit compared with use of re• Aviation is of great importance to regional growth The significance for the health sector is greatest in sources. Extensive national and international regulaand accessibility to regional centres. Northern Norway, and the hospital structure is based tions form the foundation for the safety work. Safety • There are about 2 000 direct connections with at on the accessibility of air transport. work is a continuous process where new challenges least one weekly flight between Avinor’s airports are met with new measures. and international destinations, and the number of Strategy for the Northern Areas direct intercontinental routes is expected to treble 28 of Avinor’s 46 airports are located in the country’s Avinor has an active safety culture based on transfer over the next ten years. three northernmost counties. Vast distances and of experience, audits, surveys and analyses. During • Of all domestic flights, 13 per cent are related to considerable challenges for land-based transport the period 2011–2014, a project was initiated – the the oil and gas sector. Around 700 000 helicopter make aviation more important in Northern Norway smart project – with the objective of improving 8 management from the strategic to operative level, comfortable security checks for passengers. The High degree of reliability where the individual employee’s roles, responsibiliscanners use millimetre wave technology. The images The Group’s target for punctuality and regularity is ties and work tasks will become clearer. A new tool are not stored, and the security guard will only see a 88 per cent and 98 per cent, respectively. Achieving for handling nonconformities has also been estabschematic figure when the passenger is scanned. this target depends on the concerted efforts of the lished, and will be implemented in early 2015. airports, airlines and providers of airport-related serThere is continuous focus on reducing the risk of vices, in addition to the weather conditions. PunctuChanges in the threat situation have triggered collisions between aircraft and birds. Risk analyses ality at Avinor’s airports (arrival of scheduled flights requests from the legislator for new and improved are being conducted at the airports to identify which and charter flights) increased to 88 per cent in 2014, equipment for security checks. Avinor is working to measures should be implemented, and training is compared with 85.7 per cent in 2013. Flight regularity, clarify the need for investments and implications being carried out and new equipment tested. Over the a measure of the percentage of scheduled departures for the flow of passengers at security checkpoints. In next three years, Avinor will certify all of its airports in that actually take place, was as high as 98.8 per cent 2014, the Ebola situation led to improved procedures accordance with pan-European legislation prepared in 2014, the same as in previous years. and routines between Avinor and health authorities. by the European Aviation Safety Agency (easa). Preparations for certification have been ongoing in 2014. Winter poses considerable challenges for air traffic Some of the measures at the airports are controverin Norway and every year Avinor submits a winter sial, and have been met with fundamental questions Avinor is executing several projects within aviation maintenance plan, developed in cooperation with as to individual personal integrity. As part of the safety, which will contribute to improved safety, the airlines. The plans are evaluated following each effort to develop security checks for the future, increased capacity, more efficient service delivery winter season, with a focus on improvement items. Avinor is testing security scanners at Oslo Airport in and reduced environmental impact. One such project the spring of 2015. Three different security scannersis the Southern Norway Airspace Project (snap). This Good accessibility will be tested to see how they can contribute to was implemented at the end of 2014 and resulted in The principle of universal design stipulates that air increased security. Concurrently, Avinor will evaluate new airspace organisation for parts of Western transport must be accessible for everyone who needs whether the new scanners can contribute to more Norway, Møre and Romsdal and Trøndelag counties. it. Avinor cooperates with several organisations for 9 the physically challenged to obtain input on measures that can improve accessibility. In 2013, the Ministry of Transport and Communications introduced a new set of regulations for universal design at Norwegian airports. New construction and modifications at the airports are based on universal design. The new terminal at Oslo Airport will safeguard universal design throughout all aspects of the buildings and installations. Avinor’s airports will, however, continue to vary in terms of standard. For example, jetways between the terminal and the aircraft will not be an option for the vast majority of Avinor’s smaller airports. Testing of new lifting and hoisting gear is therefore ongoing. The assistance service helps passengers with reduced mobility. Avinor conducts approximately 150 000 assistance assignments per year, from arrival at the airport until the passenger is on board the aircraft. Strong results and financial challenges Avinor is responsible for securing the company’s financial results and the Group must also strengthen its position in contest with equivalent businesses both nationally and internationally. The Group is self-financed. Airport operations are managed as a single unit, in which financially profitable airports finance the financially unprofitable airports. The primary sources of income are fees collected from the airlines and passengers, as well as commercial revenue from rental of space to duty free shops, cafés and restaurants and other services for passengers. Avinor also receives income from airport hotels and parking facilities. 10 The air navigation service is self-financed through traffic measured in the number of service units and fixed pricing for its services. A performance-based aircraft movements increased by 8.2 and 1.0 per cent pricing system has been introduced in Europe, respectively. with risk sharing with the customers. Avinor Air Navigation Services has been assigned by the The Group’s operating expenses totalled nok 8 354 Ministry of Transport and Communications to million in 2014, which is on a par with 2013. provide air traffic services in Norwegian airspace. For en route services, the decision is valid until The start of 2015 has shown clear indications of 2024. For tower service, Avinor AS and Avinor Air slower growth in air traffic, compared with previous Photo: Ivar Kvistum Navigation Services have been assigned until the years. Consequently, Avinor is prepared for greater end of 2017. uncertainty in the Group’s short-term earnings. In the wheelchair: Ole Arne Sætervik, assisted by This development will be met with measures aimed Airport Manager John Offenberg at Molde Airport . Oslo Airport is the hub for Norwegian air traffic. to improve efficiency and reduce costs. In 2014, a Nearly half of all flights take place to or from Oslo modernisation programme was initiated which aims Airport, and this airport alone accounts for nearly to reduce the Group’s operating expenses by nok 50 per cent of the Group’s income. 600 million compared with current plans and with Innovative ramps effect from 2018. For the period 2015–2018, the goal Only the main airports of Norway are The Group’s operating income for 2014 amounted to is an overall cost reduction totalling nok 1.5 billion. equipped with passenger bridges that allow nok 10 671 million, with a profit after tax of nok 1 This will prepare the Group for handling a period of travellers to move step-free directly from 399 million. Return on invested capital after tax was lower traffic growth and lower income. Furthermore, the terminal building to the aircraft door. 6.4 per cent compared with 5.0 per cent in 2013. The the measures are aimed at benefiting the customers However, at Molde Airport in Årø – and return on equity in 2014 was 11.7 per cent compared through lower fees. most other airports in Norway – the with 8.0 per cent in 2013. old-fashioned aircraft stairs was the only Major investments in increased capacity way to enter the aircraft, which meant that Operating income from airport operations increased In connection with the Ministry of Transport and passengers who use wheelchairs had to be by 6.2 per cent in 2014, to nok 9 561 million. The Communications’ work on a new National Transport carried on board. Many passengers find total number of passengers increased by 2.7 per cent Plan (2018–2027), Avinor places particular focus on this far from ideal. It is also risky, and it can to nok 50.1 million, and total operating income per capacity at the major airports, and emphasises the quickly create delays. The solution to the problem is a British-made aircraft boarding passenger increased by 3.4 per cent from 2013 to need for clarifying construction of a third runway at ramp called Aviramp, which means that all 2014. Commercial income amounted to 50.3 per cent Oslo Airport around 2030 and a second runway at passengers can forget about stairs while of the total operating income in 2014. Bergen Airport, Flesland around 2026. Expansion of being protected from the elements at the the terminal capacity at Oslo Airport is proceeding same time. The solution is being tested and Operating income from air navigation services as scheduled, and a new terminal will be ready in will be considered for other airports as well. increased by 6.2 per cent to nok 2 015 million, April 2017. The construction of Terminal 2 at Bergen compared with the previous year. The volume of Airport Flesland is also going as planned. 11 The future airport structure in Norway will also be a Avinor focuses on air safety and there is a contingeological databases. The work will be completed key issue in the coming Transport Plan. Over time, uous activity that looks at improving forecasts for early in 2015. increasingly better roads has enabled air traffic to be weather and climate phenomena such as ash and concentrated at fewer airports where larger aircraft turbulence. There is ongoing research collaboration Avinor has issued a public procurement tender and and more direct connections can provide a better with Met.no, sintef and nilu. One of the research invited manufacturers of machinery and suppliers of service. Airport structure and road construction will topics is whether satellite-supported solutions advanced electronics and remote control technology therefore be seen in context. Specific proposals will could provide improved forecasts. to take part in developing driverless snow removal be submitted in the spring of 2016. machines for the aviation industry. National databases intend to offer an overall overResearch and development with focus on safety view of data on various topics. A general overview The airspace will be optimised and the efficiency of The number of businesses, research institutes and and easy access can contribute to improving the airports improved to ensure that future needs for academic institutions seeking research and develefficiency of the public sector and in society at capacity can be handled. The eu’s regulations opment collaboration with Avinor has strengthened large. Through the inter-agency cooperation with relating to the establishment of a single European the company’s research and development work. the Norwegian National Transport Plan (2018– airspace (Single European Sky) promote increased 2027), a joint research project has been established. cooperation and harmonisation across national Avinor has created an internal innovation forum to Avinor participates in the project together with borders. New technology will support operative co-ordinate innovation across the organisation. The the Norwegian Public Roads Administration, the concepts both in the air and on the ground. Avinor forum is new and has started to prepare a strategy. Norwegian National Rail Administration and the participates actively in this work through the eu’s Efforts are ongoing to encourage funding agencies to Norwegian Coastal Administration. The purpose is research and innovation programme Horizon-2020 invest in aviation. to look at the cost/benefits of establishing national and the sesar aviation programme. Test site for Remote Tower Central in Bodø. 12 Avinor has helped develop technology for so-called The new terminal at Oslo Airport, «remotely-controlled towers». This means that tower opening April 2017. services for several airports can be operated from one location. Aircraft on the ground and in the lower airspace will be controlled from one hub through camera and radar technology. It has been decided that the centre will be in Bodø. In April 2015, a decision was made as to what five airports will be the first to have remotely controlled tower services: Mehamn, Berlevåg, Værøy, Røst and Hasvik. Avinor’s ambition is that the first airports will be operated from the tower centre when it has been completed in 2017. Thereafter remote control is expected to be introduced at 3–5 airports annually. Avinor plans to have remotely controlled towers at 36 of Norway’s 46 airports. This could reduce costs by 30 to 40 per cent. Avinor’s reputation strengthened According to Ipsos mmi’s profile survey, Avinor’s reputation improved significantly in 2014 compared with the previous year, Avinor’s reputation ranking was 6th out of 112 companies in 2014, compared with 85th in 2013, and the company was among those with the strongest improvement. No systematic analysis has been made of the reasons for the strong improvement, but important factors are likely to be punctual and stable traffic management, combined with a rebranding that has made Avinor appear more modern. Avinor has also had extensive positive media coverage. The cooperation with TV2 on the series «Fly med oss» (Come fly with us) has had positive impact. In tns Gallup’s annual opinion survey in 2014, Oslo Airport rose to a strong 15th place on the list of companies with the best reputation in Norway, up 12 places on 2013. 13 Avinor as sponsor Avinor’s sponsorships shall predominately be directed towards local measures and activities for children and young people. Many airports provided support for activities for children and young people in local communities in 2014. Avinor supports the Church City Mission in Oslo through the «Nabosamarbeid i Bjørvika (The neighbour partnership in Bjørvika)» project. The Church City Mission also organises special activities for children and young people, where Avinor’s employees participate. Avinor’s Christmas present went to the Church City Mission – to the campaign «Gled en som gruer seg til jul (Make someone happy who is dreading Christmas)». Avinor has also partnered with Global Dignity Norway, which works to encourage young people to reflect and share stories about the concept of dignity in connection with the Global Dignity Day. Avinor provides financial support to the environmental organisations Zero and Bellona. The organisations provide specialist support to Avinor in connection with the work on developing biofuel for aviation. Avinor donated to the 2014 TV fundraising show – «Vann forandrer alt» (Water changes everything), organised by the Norwegian Church Aid. In addition, Avinor funded advertisements for the Norwegian Society for Sea Rescure and Amnesty International and contributed to the Sola Conference, Flyoperativt forum (a forum for aircraft operations), Newton Aviation Camp, Flypionerprosjektet (a flight pioneer project) at Kjeller and the 75th airport anniversary for Fornebu Airport. Photo: Eidsvold IF handball/Geir M. Wilsgård 14 AVINOR WILL BE A DRIVING FORCE IN THE WORK ON CLIMATE AND ENVIRONMENTAL CHALLENGES WITHIN AVIATION Avinor’s environmental policy Avinor’s environmental goals Avinor’s environmental policy will ensure that strategic and operative environmental work are • Emission of greenhouse gases: Avinor will reduce Avinor is a driving force within the aviation clearly defined centrally, in air navigation services the total greenhouse gas emissions the Group industry’s environmental work, while making and at the airports. controls in the period 2012-2015, regardless of active contributions to improving the overall traffic growth, and be a driving force in reducing • Together we create continuous improvements, overall GHG emissions from Norwegian aviation. environmental performance of the industry minimise pollution and negative environmental and its own environmental reputation. • Aircraft noise: The number of residents exposed impact. to outdoor noise levels above Lden 60 dB and Principles for environmental work in Avinor: • Avinor emphasises and integrates environmental Lnight 55 dB shall not increase in the period. considerations early in planning, projects and pro• Discharges to water and soil: Avinor shall not • Avinor complies with acts, regulations and curement. Development projects are implemented violate discharge permits. regulatory requirements and will in certain with a strong environmental focus. • Consumption of products and materials: Avinor areas seek opportunities beyond this, based • Avinor engages in open, constructive and prowill select products and materials with the lowest on reputation or business considerations. active dialogue with partners, local communities, environmental impact from a lifetime perspective. • Avinor’s management system is adapted to authorities, aviation organisations and other • Waste: Avinor will achieve a source separation ISO14001, and ensures coordination, control and stakeholders. rate of 60 per cent. follow-up of the environmental work. • Avinor seeks solutions to environmental • Energy consumption: Avinor’s total energy • Avinor ensures a high level of awareness and challenges through collaboration with research consumption in buildings will be reduced by and development environments, authorities, 25 per cent in 2015, compared with the energy expertise on the environment throughout the consumption in 2010. Group, where roles and responsibilities for and other organisations. The Norwegian aviation industry recognises the Greenhouse gas emissions sector’s environmental challenges and believes that If irreversible climate change is to be avoided, a development with emissions increasing in line with emissions of greenhouse gases must be reduced by traffic growth is unacceptable. Avinor’s goal is to be as much as 80 per cent in the oecd countries by a driving force for the industry’s environmental work 2050, compared with 19901. This requires extensive and contributes actively to improving the industry’s measures in all sectors, including aviation. 1. According to IPCC – Intergovernmental Panel on environmental performance. Climate Change 15 Avinor’s goal for the period 2012–15 is to reduce the total greenhouse gas emissions the Group controls regardless of traffic growth, and be a driving force in reducing overall ghg emissions from Norwegian aviation. Greenhouse gas emissions from aviation can be divided into three major groups: Air traffic, shuttle services and airport operation. Emission of greenhouse gases from air traffic Greenhouse gas emissions from civil aviation according to Statistics Norway (Statistics Norway) in 2013 (last official numbers) were 2.3 per cent of overall domestic emissions (1.25 of a total of 53.9 million tonnes). These emissions are regulated by the Kyoto Protocol. In addition come greenhouse gas emissions from international air traffic, meaning from Norwegian airports to the first destination abroad, which in 2013 totalled 1.52 million tonnes co2-equivalents. Overall greenhouse gas emissions from all jet fuel for civilian purposes sold at Norwegian airports in 2013 were in the order of 2.75 million tonnes co2-equivalents, which is an increase compared with 2012. The growth in air traffic will result in increased greenhouse gas emissions if measures are not implemented. Therefore, since 2007, Avinor has cooperated with the airlines and Federation of Norwegian Aviation Industries concerning the facilitation of reduced greenhouse gas emissions. Two reports2 outlining emission-reducing measures and comparing the effect of these with expected traffic development 16 have been published. According to the forecasts, the and departure routes at 15 airports. The objective is greenhouse gas emissions from domestic air traffic enhanced aviation safety, securing future capacity, EMISSION OF GREENHOUSE GASES can be less in 2025 than in 2007, despite substantial reducing environmental impact, as well as standardisFROM AIR TRAFFIC (1990–2013) traffic growth. As regards international air traffic, the ing and streamlining delivery of air navigation services. emissions will probably increase, as a result of signifiTonnes CO2 ekv. cant traffic growth. Biofuels. Norway’s first flights using biofuels were 3.000.000 Foreign emissions Domestic emissions conducted in November 2014. In 2015, all airlines 2.500.000 Total emissions The most important emissions-reducing measures refuelling at Oslo Airport will be offered biofuels. 2.000.000 are associated with fleet replacements, improving the This will make Oslo Airport the first hub in the world efficiency of the airspace and biofuel. with regular supplies of biofuels. 1.500.000 1.000.000 The airlines will continue the work on energy efficiency Avinor has allocated up to nok 100 million over a 500.000 and fleet renewal. sas and Norwegian now have almost ten-year period (2013–2022) for initiatives and exclusively the latest generation aircraft in their fleets. projects that can contribute to the realisation of 1990 1995 2000 2005 2010 2013 For example, the new Boeing 737 planes consume Norwegian biofuel production. Along with the airlines around 30 per cent less fuel per seat than the previous and Federation of Norwegian Aviation Industries, generation of aircraft. Starting from 2016, the A320 Avinor has explored opportunities to establish largeneo and Boeing 737-Max aircraft will be phased in. scale production of biofuels for aviation, based on bioThis will yield a further reduction of around 15 per cent. mass from Norwegian forests. The conclusion is that this can be realised from 2020–2025. The initiative More efficient airspace. More efficient airspace along will be able to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from with optimisation of landings and take-offs are importNorwegian aircraft and helicopter traffic by between ant measures where Avinor has considerable oppor10 and 45 per cent, depending on how much biomass tunity to make an impact. Better navigation techfrom the forest industry is used for the purpose. nology can yield more precise and flexible approach A partnership has been formed with Viken Skog in and departure procedures. One example is the 4 244 view of a possible plant at Follum, and Avinor has curved test approaches conducted at Oslo Airport in close ties with other industry players, including 2014. Such approaches aim to avoid flying over densely Statkraft and Södra Cell. populated areas, but will also reduce fuel consumption as the flight distance is reduced compared with the Large-scale Norwegian production of sustainable current straight-line approaches. The total reduction bio-fuel for aviation and heavy road transport can be in emissions associated with these flights is about essential to reach Norway’s climate goals. However, 1000 tonnes co2. In November 2014, a new airspace this depends on long-term and predictable framework 2. See https://avinor.no/konsern/miljo-og-samfunn/ organisation system was implemented in Southern conditions. rapporter/ Norway3. The change encompassed new approach 3. SNAP – Southern Norway Airspace Project. 17 Quotas and carbon taxes. As one of the few countries contribute to this being an achievable goal. Emission EMISSION OF GREENHOUSE in the world, Norway has introduced a carbon tax of greenhouse gases from airport operations are very GASES FROM AIRPORT OPERATION on domestic flights. Furthermore, aviation is encomsensitive to climate variations in the winter season passed by the European Emissions Trading System, due to energy used for heating, operation of the Control Guide/Command Affect under which airlines also have to stay within allowvehicle fleet for snow clearance, and use of de-icing ances for emissions from flights within the eu/eea. chemicals. Furthermore, it is a challenge for the Group’s climate performance that several of the Emission of greenhouse gases from airport Group’s airports are being expanded. operations 2014 Tonnes CO2 -ekv. Avinor prepares annual greenhouse gas inventories In 2014, Oslo Airport established a long-term ambiin accordance with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol. tion to achieve zero emissions and discharges from Emissions from Avinor’s own operations are offset its own directly controlled sources by 2020, and 16.800 by purchases of un-approved emission allowances. established a climate programme to assess and im7.500 Oslo Airport, Trondheim Airport and Kristiansand plement measures. Oslo Airport’s various sources of Airport have been certified by the voluntary carbon greenhouse gas emissions have been identified, and management programme for airports, Airport eight working groups have been established who are Fleet of vehicles, Ground operations, Carbon Accreditation (aca) since it was launched in working to identify and implement various measures aircraft de-icing 5.500 electricity, business chemicals, waste travel, cooling 2009. Stavanger Airport and Bergen Airport joined to reduce emissions/discharges in the period leading systems, thermal transportation energy, runway the programme in 2014. Participation here entails up to 2020. Furthermore, preparatory work has been de-icing chemicals, Employee commuting, fire training site preparation of detailed carbon accounts, action carried out in 2014 to establish a long-term climate district heating plans and binding carbon reduction goals. action plan for the entire Avinor Group. Measures and milestones will be adopted in connection with Avinor maps greenhouse gas emissions from our the foundation of new environmental targets over Tonnes CO2 ekv. airport operations whenever practically feasible, the course of 2015. also outside our own operations. Emissions are 40.000 categorised in accordance with the Group’s impact The most extensive greenhouse gas emission mea30.000 opportunities. sures in 2014 were implemented at the aca-certified airports Oslo, Trondheim and Kristiansand. At 20.000 Avinor’s objective for greenhouse gas emissions Trondheim Airport, an extensive project has been during the period 2012–15 is to reduce the total implemented to assess reduction measures from 10.000 greenhouse gas emissions controlled by the Group airside sources, including emissions from aircraft regardless of traffic growth. movements on the ground, from Avinor’s fleet of vehicles, electricity and ground operations (handling 2010 2011 2012 2013 Avinor’s energy efficiency measures have had companies, etc.) The project is supported by positive results. Several mild winter seasons also Transnova. Moreover, Trondheim Airport has 18 stipulated strict climate performance requirements for tenders relating to parking of airport buses at the terminal. Bergen Airport will encourage employees to reduce car travel to and from work by introducing a carpooling app. In 2014, a project group was established in Avinor which, over the course of 2015, will establish a framework agreement for second generation synthetic biofuel for Avinor’s fleet of vehicles and energy facilities. In 2014, Oslo Airport converted the first energy facility from fossil to bio-based heating oil. More facilities will be converted in 2015, aiming to phase out fossil heating oil at the airport by 2020. Furthermore, 15 passenger cars have been replaced by electric cars, and an anti-idling awareness campaign has been conducted, as well as a number of other minor energy efficiency measures – which in total are expected to have a noticeable effect. Oslo Airport’s fleet of small cars now have 15 per cent zero-emission vehicles. Including hybrid vehicles, the percentage of lowand zero-emission vehicles is 22 per cent. In 2014, the airport also acquired the Group’s first hydrogen car Transport to and from airports Shuttle services, meaning all transport systems that transport people to and from airports, are mainly governed by transport companies and the authorities and can only marginally be impacted by Avinor. Avinor wishes to be a driving force and facilitator for ensuring that as much as possible of such transport Photo: Flytoget 19 takes place by public transport. This is e.g. managed share can be documented obtained. This will be very PUBLIC TRANSPORT SHARE through the infrastructure for public transport demanding. Oslo Airport already has the highest % (parking spaces for buses and access to train stations) public transport share for shuttle services in Europe, 90 2009 and information services. For announcements of 68 per cent. 2014 tenders, Avinor emphasises the use of biofuel. 80 Energy Objective 2020 Several of Avinor’s airports have a very high public The infrastructure at the airport is energy-intensive, 70 transport percentage compared with the rest of and represents significant greenhouse gas emissions. 60 Europe. However, at some airports shuttle services are still strongly dominated by car transport. Avinor uses a number of energy carriers, with a vary50 ing degree of climate intensity, as shown in the figure The four largest airports (Oslo, Bergen, Trondheim below. Svalbard Airport has relatively low energy 40 and Stavanger) aim to increase their public transport consumption, but disproportionately high green30 percentage during the period leading up to 2020, in house gas emissions. This is due to the use of coal for cooperation responsible parties. For the other airenergy generation. 20 ports, mapping or objectives for shuttle services have not yet been established. Avinor’s objective for the 2010–15 period is to reduce 10 energy consumption in buildings by 25 per cent. The goal of 60 per cent by 2020 for Trondheim Airport is stipulated in the area development plan, but is A four-year energy conservation project was comTrondheim Stavanger Oslo Bergen contingent on development of the railway. This is pleted in 2014, with funding from enova totalling currently not very realistic and the target may have nok 13 million. The project achieved its result target to be revised. and reduced consumption by a total of 8.8 GWh (21 per cent for the airports involved). The energy reducSeveral airports extended access to charging stations tion also represents an improvement of the Group’s ENERGY CONSUMPTION (GWh) for electric cars in 2014, and with its 170 charging climate performance corresponding to 143 tonnes Electric power District heating stations, Oslo Airport is the largest provider of such co2. However, a substantial increase in the number Thermal energy Groundwater parking spaces in the Nordic countries. of buildings and activities in the Group during the same period has resulted in an increase in energy 2010 One example of the authorities’ focus on public consumption, meaning that Avinor’s energy target 2011 transport and greenhouse gas emissions, is that will not be achieved. 2012 private car parking companies at Oslo Airport will 2013 not indiscriminately be granted a licence to increase In 2014, a project was launched to test a top system 2014 their services until an ambitious goal in the area for central operation management (sd) at four airGWh 0 100 200 300 development plan of 75 per cent public transport ports, where energy management and energy follow 20 up systems are included. A preliminary project was Administration and The Norwegian National Rail AIRPORT ENERGY CARRIER also launched to select airports that can apply for Administration have assessed climate change impact Oslo Lufthavn Biomass funding from enova for energy management. Both on own activities through the work with the National Bardufoss Diesel (70 %) + electric boiler (30 %) projects will be implemented in 2015. Transport Plan (ntp). Avinor has, in addition, carried out separate risk and vulnerability studies. Molde Biomass (94 %) + natural gass (6 %) Minor energy efficiency measures were implemented Stavanger Biomass at several other airports in 2014, with main focus on A number of measures to mitigate climate vulneraSvalbard Coal ventilation control, led lighting, heat pumps and bility have been implemented, including establishing insulation of ceilings. new dimensioning criteria for vital infrastructure. Avinor will continue this work. The airspace and Five of Avinor’s airports receive district heating, from runways are continuously monitored, both from the AIRPORT ENERGY (GWh) CO2 EQV. (tonnes) various types of energy systems: air control centres, the airport towers, and through Oslo Lufthavn 8,80 2 287 friction monitoring. Airports can be closed for Bardufoss 0,50 120 Avinor does not calculate greenhouse gas emissions shorter or longer duration, should weather conditions Molde 0,72 196 from biomass, as wood chips are a climate neutral indicate such action. commodity. However, the co2 freed from such Stavanger 2,22 577 combustion can be put into numbers, and using the Aircraft and helicopter noise Svalbard 3,11 1 765 emissions factor from www.klimakalkulatoren.no, About two per cent of the Norwegian population we have the following overview (in the right column). lives in a location where average outdoor aircraft noise exceeds Lden4 50 dBA. This mainly includes Climate adaptation people who are exposed to noise from fighter Major historical greenhouse gas emissions means aircraft, but also people who live in exposed areas that the global median temperature will continue to near the largest civilian airports in Norway and near increase despite significant cuts in future emissions. airports with considerable offshore traffic. The numThis will cause climate change all over the globe. In ber of people exposed to aircraft noise has remained Norway, we can expect warmer, more extreme and relatively stable since 1999, in spite of a significant wetter climate, but with major regional and local increase in traffic, which is primarily due to the variations. Projections from the climate models reduced noise level from newer aircraft engines. show that from around 2040 and onwards, the climate will change significantly. As a result, conAircraft and helicopter noise is one of Avinor’s most siderations for the future climate must be made in important focus areas within external environment 4. Lden = an A-weighted equivalent noise level for infrastructure projects currently being executed. because it is an important topic in the airports’ local day-evening-night with a 5dB/10dB supplement for communities. The Avinor Group’s environmental evening-night. The Lden level is calculated as the average noise load over the course of one year. Since 2001, Avinor, the Norwegian Public Roads policy includes a commitment to attempt to reduce Lnight = an A-weighted equivalent level for an 8-hour Administration, The Norwegian Coastal the noise load from civilian aircraft and helicopter night period from 23:00 to 07:00 hours. 21 traffic, as well as implementing regular mappings is permitted, but only if measures are implemented natural areas have the most stringent protection at all airports and registering route usage at the to reduce noise. Avinor took the initiative to estabmeasures. The existing environmental monitoring major airports. The number of residents exposed to lish a national helicopter noise committee in 2012, satisfies requirements in line with the environmenoutdoor noise levels from aircraft and helicopters and has worked actively on this problem in 2014. The tal authorities, risk and assessed vulnerability. The exceeding Lden 60 dB and Lnight 55 dB shall not committee consists of representatives from airport results from the environmental monitoring are increase during the 2012–2015 period. management at Bergen Airport Flesland and Stavanevaluated each year, and the follow-up programmes ger Airport Sola, representatives from Flesland and are revised as needed. Environmental monitoring Aircraft noise maps, which describe a noise picture Sola’s host municipalities, the Norwegian Oil and documents the status in the aquatic environment with long-term predictability, are the most importGas Association, helicopter operators chc and around the airports, and shows the effect of the ant tools for preventing increased aircraft noise Bristow, as well as professionals from Avinor. The measures being implemented. exposure in residential areas. The municipalities are Civil Aviation Authority – Norway is also participatobliged to use these maps in their area planning. ing as an observer. The committee’s primary mission Emission and discharge permits Aircraft noise exposure depends on the aircraft type, is to share information and provide advice about the All Avinor airports have valid emission/discharge traffic volume, runway use, route choice, and how noise situation around affected airports, with the permits which govern and set requirements for the the traffic is distributed throughout the day. Apart aim of finding noise-reducing measures. maximum use of chemicals for fire training and from noise mappings, Avinor’s most important tools de-icing of aircraft and runways. The permits also set are traffic management and adjustment by approach In 2014, a system was established for registering requirements for preparedness in the event of acute and departure procedures. In 2014, Oslo Airport conradar data from air traffic at the Bergen, Stavanger discharges, as well as environmental risk assesstinued its testing of approaches using satellite-based and Trondheim airports. This provides a good tool ments in order to identify potential sources of acute navigation, where the routes are charted between for influencing noise impact from offshore traffic, pollution. The discharge permits apply for the entire population centres. Limiting the noise load during and has already led to adjustments that have been airport area, except property which belongs to the approach and departure was one of the guidelines well-received by the neighbours. Norwegian Armed Forces. Pursuant to the Internal for the planning of the new airspace reorganisation Control Regulations, Avinor is responsible for coorfor large parts of Southern Norway in November 2014. Discharges to water and soil dinating in order to ensure that all players comply The risk of water and soil contamination during with the framework conditions for the external enviThe introduction of the Sikorsky S92 helicopter type current operation of the airports is mainly associated ronment. The risk analyses show that these players for offshore transport has resulted in a significant inwith aircraft de-icing, runway de-icing, fire training also have a need for environmental measures. crease in aircraft noise load at certain airports. More and the risk of fuel leaks. There are also contamiAvinor’s goal is zero breaches of the discharge recent aircraft noise mappings show that the helinated sites as a result of historical activity, including permits. In 2014, there was a total of nine breaches copter traffic contributes somewhat toward increaspfos-contaminated areas. pfos is a substance that of Oslo Airport’s discharge permit for groundwater ing the scope of the red aircraft noise zone, in which contains fluorine which as previously used as an (glycol and formate, which are used in de-icing) and it is prohibited, in practice, to build schools, day-care additive in fire-fighting foam. one breach for the river system (oil and formate). centres, housing and holiday cottages. The helicopter For comparison, in 2013, there were seven breaches traffic is of particular significance for the scope of Avinor has prepared a vulnerability classification of the discharge permit for groundwater and one the yellow aircraft noise zone, in which construction if its airports. Airports with the most vulnerable breach for the river system. The consumption of 22 volumes of aircraft de-icing chemicals was not Project will be concluded in 2015, at which time the the use of fire-fighting foam containing pfos in 2001, exceed at Avinor’s other airports during the 2013– upgrade of technical facilities at the airports shall be and the substances were banned in Norway in 2007. 2014 period. Neither were there breaches of the complete, procedures shall have been updated and In 2014, Avinor worked to analyse and evaluate permitted volumes of runway de-icing chemicals. ordinary operation of the facilities shall be carried results from samples from living organisms which out by operations personnel. were taken in 2013. The analysis reports assess the The Environmental Project risk to human health and ecosystems as a result of The Environmental Project was established in 2010 The Environmental Project’s mapping of contamithe pollution in the fire training areas. Avinor will, following the completion of risk analyses of the nated soil in 2011/2012 uncovered the fact that soil based on the risk assessments, implement appropriexternal environment at Avinor’s airports in 2008 and water near many active and decommissioned fire ate measures. The Norwegian Environment Agency and 2009. The project’s goal is to assess and impletraining fields were contaminated by pfos. pfos does has determined that two airports – Kristiansand ment measures at Avinor’s airports to ensure that not decompose in nature, and can spread from soil to Airport, Kjevik and Harstad/Narvik Airport, Evenes they are operated pursuant to the discharge permits water and/or to living organisms, in rising concentra– are in need of measures, and the Agency has issued and the Pollution Control Act. The Environmental tions up through the food chain. Avinor phased out an administrative order compelling Avinor to prepare 23 Honeymaking by an action plan. With the exception of experiments chemicals from the airport’s area may, however, have Stavanger Airport, Sola. in laboratories and on the pilot scale, there is little a negative impact on the natural environment if the experience on a global basis with full-scale cleaning consumption exceeds the natural threshold and of pfos-contaminated areas. Avinor is in a dialogue capacity for decomposition. with the Norwegian Environment Agency concerning this matter. Based on an assessment of vulnerability in the environments surrounding our airports, we have es2014 was the first year of operation for the treatment tablished a system for recovering glycol from aircraft plant for pfos–contaminated ground water at a hande-icing at additional airports. Such measures will gar at Oslo Airport. Experience from the plant shows make it possible to collect most of the chemicals, good treatment results for the pfos-contaminated and will reduce strain on local natural environments. water that is pumped up. However, the results show a need for adjusting the system in order to optimise Other discharges to water and soil the capacity of the treatment plant. Oslo Airport has Avinor and other players at the airports conduct also continued its effort to establish measures in activities that generate oily drain water. This could be connection with water and soil pollution at the airfrom the fire training fields, tank farms, workshops port’s fire training field. A new treatment plant will and washing halls. This water is led via oil separators be ready to treat pfos-contaminated ground water to the municipal system or recipient pursuant to disfrom the fire training field in the autumn of 2015. charge agreements. The oil separators are followed up through regular maintenance, sampling and De-icing aircraft and runway systems reporting of environmental conditions. The risk of For safety reasons, snow and ice must be removed accidental discharges has been assessed at each airfrom the aircraft before they take off, and runways port, and training and materials have been adapted and taxiways must be cleaned and maintain satisfacto the risk profile. As a minimum, exercises for hantory friction. When needed, the aircrafts are theredling incidents are held on an annual basis. fore de-iced before they take off, and runways and taxiways must be ploughed, brushed and sanded Impact on landscape and natural environment and/or de-iced with chemicals. The aircraft de-icing Many of Avinor’s airports are located near river delchemicals, when discharged into nature, represent tas, river banks, strandflats, marsh areas or similar an organic stress – oxygen is needed to biologically flat areas which are often biologically diverse. decompose the substance. Avinor owns a total of 1 116 decares of cultivated As regards runway de-icing, the substances used landscape. The largest areas are the hay fields along pose the least environmental strain of the available the runways at Ålesund and Kristiansand airports runway de-icing chemicals. Run-off and spread of and the coastal heather moors at Haugesund Airport. Photo: Ingvald Erga 24 The older airports have particularly important natuassets in their areas and in areas that can be affected produced their first batch in the autumn of 2014. ral assets linked to unfertilised adjacent land. Here, through operations. Biological diversity was mapped The honey is sold in the terminal and used in the local masses with underground seed banks have at all airports in a project which ran during the period coffee bar at the airport. The purity of the honey created fertile conditions for diverse flower meadows 2008–2013. The reports are publicly available on is a good indicator of the air quality at the airport, which are maintained through the care exercised by Avinor’s website. The mappings resulted in reports because the bees collect nectar in the landscape at the airports. Flower meadows used to be a common with descriptions, maps and management advice. the airport. The honey has been tested and found sight throughout the country, but overgrowing and These are followed up and used in order to ensure to be pure. fertilisation have had a drastic impact on such areas sound management of the natural areas both during in recent decades. The airports thus represent imoperations and in projects. portant replacement biotopes for such habitats. A number of measures were implemented in 2014. Biotopes in the freshwater and wetlands main group, Examples include the following: dominated by calcareous lakes, sea meadows and tidal marsh, and naturally fishless lakes also occur • At Oslo Airport, additional surveys were conducted relatively frequently (about 500 decares). Sand dune in freshwater and of birds. In cooperation with a areas, especially at Stavanger Airport, are also imlocal school, we organised a nature day at a lake in portant natural areas, and in the north we often find the airport’s forest areas in order to study insects calcareous area biotopes at high altitudes. and life in the water • Information about cites5 and responsible tourism Five of Avinor’s airports share boundaries with was communicated to passengers at Oslo Airport nature conservation areas and wetland areas under in collaboration with the Norwegian Environment special protection. Ten have very important or Agency and Norwegian Customs and Excise important wildlife areas on their properties, and 18 have important wildlife areas (nesting, rest, breeding • Activities to combat harmful foreign species were and feeding areas for birds) in their impact areas. initiated at Oslo Airport, Bergen Airport, TrondSix are located near important salmon rivers or heim Airport and Svolvær Airport salmon fjords. 20 airports have registered red-listed • At Kristiansand Airport, surveys show that the (near threatened and threatened) species on their re-establishment of hay fields after the construcproperties. The airports must implement necessary tion work in 2012 was successful. There is also an measures in order to keep these birds away from the exhibition on biodiversity in the terminal airports for safety reasons. This is done as carefully • Stavanger Airport started producing honey in as possible. The measures are mainly scaring and 2014, and now sells self-produced honey under the care with a view toward making the areas at the label Just plane/plain honey. The beehives placed airport less attractive for protected bird species. 5. CITES (the Convention on International Trade in in the protected landscape area at the airport Avinor aims to have a good overview of natural Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora) 25 Consumption of products and materials The primary tool is the local waste plans, which are TOTAL WASTE VOLUMES Avinor spends a considerable amount on products prepared in cooperation with the waste manageTonn Avinor OSL and services – about nok 8 billion in 2014 – and is ment companies, based on the volume and types 16.000 implementing large construction projects in connecof waste, and the local waste processing facilities’ tion with terminal expansions, runway extensions opportunities to handle the fractions. By having and similar performed by contractors. Avinor is a centrally controlled framework agreements for 12.000 player which has the opportunity to influence the waste handling, the Group can implement common supplier industry within multiple sectors in a more requirements and improvement measures across its environmentally friendly direction. units. The Group-wide source separation rate was 58 per cent in 2014, up from 56 per cent the previous 8.000 As regards the implementation of building and year. The source separation rate for Oslo Airport construction projects, Avinor will prepare an enalone was 62 per cent. The other airports achieved vironmental follow-up plan which will safeguard 48 per cent. 4.000 considerations for the external environment in the planning and construction phases, as well as guarThe total volume of waste in 2014 was 14,574 tonnes, antee environmental considerations in the choice of an increase of nearly 10 per cent from the previous solutions. This tool has been incorporated into the year. Oslo Airport accounted for 10,361 tonnes of 2011 2012 2013 2014 framework for development projects. this, whereas the other airports produced 4,213 tonnes. The increase in reported waste volume is, Waste to some extent, a result of the new framework agreeWaste is produced in public areas at all airports ment which was entered into with Retura toward the SOURCE SEPARATION RATE (terminals, including security check, food and bevend of 2013. erage, shops and waiting areas), by office activities % and activities in workshops and garages. At certain The Group produced a total of 548 tonnes of hazard70 airports, Avinor also handles waste from other ous waste, 401 tonnes of which was produced by OSL businesses, such as handling companies. Waste is Oslo Airport. 60 Total also produced in development projects, and is then 50 handled through the individual project. Air quality Avinor Air quality monitoring only takes place at Oslo 40 Avinor is working to optimise the percentage of Airport, where test results over several years have sorted waste, and the Group as a whole aims to shown that the air quality is well within regulatory 2011 2012 2013 2014 achieve a source separation rate of 60 per cent in requirements. The measurement results from Oslo 2015. Oslo Airport aims to achieve a source Airport indicate that this is also the case for other separation rate of 65 per cent. Norwegian airports, which all have considerably less traffic than Oslo Airport. 26 FRACTIONS 2014 42% Mixed waste 19% Paper, cardboard, carton 7% Biological waste, sludge, organic waste 4% Solid mass and inorganic materials 4% Metals 4% Dangerous waste 1% EE-waste 3% Glass, metal packaging, bottles, cans 1% Plastic, styrofoam 15% Other In 2012-2014, Avinor participated in a project under Cultural monuments and cultural environments the auspices of the National Institute of OccupaAvinor is an important part of Norway’s culture of tional Health (stami), which aims to document the aviation, a culture with roots as far back as the early concentration by ultrafine particles6 in Norwegian 1900s. Avinor has mapped cultural monuments at workplaces. Until recently, such measurements have the airports and has prepared a landscape protection been difficult to conduct, and knowledge concerning plan. The project received expert follow-up from the potential harmful effects is limited. This project has Directorate for Cultural Heritage, the State Historreceived financial support from the Confederation of ical Properties project and the Norwegian Defence Norwegian Enterprise (nho)’s working environment Estates Agency. The landscape protection plan is a research fund. Measurements conducted in 2012 and management plan for historical properties whose 2013 showed low concentrations of ultrafine partimain purpose is to ensure protection of a represencles at Oslo Airport. A report, which was completed tative selection of buildings which document the in March 2015, shows that emissions linked to diesel history of the aviation sector as regards technical 6. Particles with diameter less than 0,1 m fuel exhaust as well as exhaust from stationary parked solutions, function, architecture and similar. 7. Yngvar Thomassen et al. mapping of exposure to diesel aircraft, are low and slightly higher than concentraexhaust particlate in norwegian working life using tions which occur in central urban areas7. elementary carbon as a marker. Stami, 2015. 27 KEY FIGURES AVINOR GROUP Greenhouse gas emissions contrl. by Avinor (tonnes) 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Fire fighting chemicals 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 18 696 18 471 17 827 18 361 16 862 Fuel: Jetfuel A1 (tonnes) 46 54 53 51 45 Fuel: Paraffin (tonnes) 25 29 29 17 13 Energy (GWh) 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Fuel: Others (diesel, petrol, propane) (tonnes) 15 7 8 7 8 Electric energy 210 204 215 222 223 Extinguishing agents: Foam (m3) 30 33 36 27 2 District heating 28 21 23 26 15 Extinguishing agents: Powder (tonnes) 24 26 19 21 17 Groundwater 13 15 15 16 21 Oil heating 6 4 3 2 2 Waste (tonnes) 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Auxiliary power 1 2 2 1 2 10 538 11 773 12 930 13 311 14 597 TOTAL 259 245 258 267 263 Source separation rate 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Energy (TJ) 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 54 56 57 56 58 Electric energy (part fossil) 757 734 774 799 803 District heating (part fossil) 101 75 85 93 55 Avisingskjemikalier 2009–2010 2010–2011 2011–2012 2012–2013 2013–2014 Groundwater (renewable) 48 53 53 58 75 Aircraft de-icing chemicals (tonnes) Oil heating (fossil) 20 15 12 7 6 Glycol 2 468 2 585 1 953 2 500 2 363 Auxiliary (fossil diesel) 5 6 7 5 8 Chemical oxygen demand 4 146 4 343 3 281 4 199 3 969 Seawater heating (renewable) n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a Runway de-icing chemicals (tonnes) Vehicles ( fossil diesel) 99 94 93 94 88 Formiat 2 503 3 104 3 637 2 702 3 060 Vehicles ( fossil petrol) 4 5 4 3 2 Acetate 0 0 0 0 0 Vehicles (renewable biodiesel) 0 0 0 0 1 Urea 0 0 1 0 0 TOTAL 1 034 982 1 026 1 059 1 039 Chemical oxygen demand 268 335 376 369 488 Fuel for vehicles (m3) 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Diesel 2 727 2 606 2 567 2 593 2 436 Petrol 116 145 123 80 76 Biodiesel 0 0 0 0 5 28 AVINOR SHALL BE A PROFESSIONAL AND ATTRACTIVE EMPLOYER The 2014 employee survey showed that four of five expertise mapping in 2014. This work was completed employees are highly or very highly engaged in their quickly and represents substantial value. This effort job. The employees are of the opinion that: will be continued in the rest of the Group. • Avinor has a good working environment • Job satisfaction is high 430 managers, key personnel, safety delegates and • Four of five would recommend Avinor as employee representatives have completed Avinor’s an employer culture and management development programme. Furthermore, additional management groups are Collaboration undertaking management team development. A role Avinor employs a high number of trade union memmodel index has been developed for managers in bers, and the collective agreement coverage is 100 Avinor. It is founded on Avinor’s four management per cent for the Group’s companies, which each have requirements: cooperator, developer, result creator their own collective agreement. Employee represenand role model. This work has been continued in a tatives are therefore important partners in the effort model for all employees. The results from the 2014 to realise the Group’s objectives. employee survey have provided all managers who supervise more than five employees, with a developIn 2014, Avinor experienced good collaboration with ment report based on the index. Dedicated courses the employee representatives and the safety delefor training in operative management have also been gate service (more about the safety delegate service held. below), both as regards continuous case processing and more extensive processes such as major tranIn 2014, in order to secure efficient completion of sition work. The Group aims to further develop the projects, the Group established a project school, collaborative model between employee representawhich will ensure that the organisation has a shared tives, the safety delegate service and management, project language and solid basic skills within project in order to secure good working conditions, stable management. 340 participants have completed one operations and cost effectiveness throughout the or more modules. Group. Recruitment Expertise development Avinor wants the composition of its Group employees Employees with the right expertise are essential in to increasingly represent a cross-section of the order for Avinor to succeed, and regulatory changes Norwegian population. The Group is continuously require continuous updates of the employees’ experworking to establish measures aimed at undertise. In 2014, the Group started an effort to revise its represented groups. Both communication and the expertise strategy linked to new strategic goals. choices regarding recruitment channel were adjusted Avinor Air Navigation Services conducted a major in 2014 in order to attract more young candidates 29 KEY FIGURES ABOUT AVINOR EMPLOYEES and women. Concrete measures were initiated in The T2 project at Oslo Airport (new terminal) has 2014 to establish relationships with women who had 13 lost-time injuries in 2014 and an lti value 2014 2013 have started an education programme within craft of 3. The T3 project at Bergen Airport, Flesland Permanent employees pr. 31.12.2014 3214 3123 trades, for example through internships (new terminal) saw 3 injuries, two minor injuries Temporary full-time equivalents 155 150 with three days’ absence and one more serious injury Average age of permanent employees 45,4 44,4 Decline in breaches of working hours provisions where a hand was crushed between concrete eleTotal turnover 2,8 % 3,4 % 2014 saw a decline in breaches of working hours ments. The T3 project achieved an lti value of 6.9 provisions, both overall (-8 per cent) and for breaches in 2014. A number of measures have been initiated Percentage of women 23,6 % 23,7 % after entering into an agreement on expanded to avoid injuries in the future. Women in management positions 21,4 % 21,2 % working hours (-15 per cent). The use of overtime Absence due to illness 4,5 % 4,5 % has been reduced by 6 per cent. Absence due to illness work in Avinor is systematLTI value 4,2 1,8 ic and particularly aimed at employees who work Attractive employer (scale 1-5) 4,1 4,1 Preventive hse and absence due to illness work shifts, in operative positions with physical and Avinor is divided in safety areas, with one safety health requirements. Avinor is participating in a delegate responsible for each area. All airports have multi-year research project (farve) on the effect of at least one safety delegate, and many have more. various measures. There is too early to conclude on Working environment committees have been causation, but the number of employees who do not established at the central, division and local levels. satisfy the health requirements set for the service – These committees are composed of safety delegates those with a medical rejection – has been reduced and representatives of the employees and manageby about 30 per cent during the project period. ment. The occupational health service, the chemical Each of the 42 regional airports employs a health committee and akan are also part of the safety delmotivator, who is responsible for disseminating egate service in Avinor. akan deals with substance knowledge and motivation for training and a healthy abuse and compulsive gambling in connection with lifestyle. Avinor works systematically to prevent the work. harmful effects of substance abuse, through internal regulations, skills development and consciousIt is important for the Group to raise awareness in ness-raising. Employees who want to change their the organisation as regards reporting undesirable alcohol consumption, can also get help via Balance. incidents. This has resulted in an increasing numBalance is an internet-based health-promoting prober of reports since 2013, without this necessarily gramme that can assess the person’s alcohol habits, meaning that there have been more injuries: A total and then follow up for up to one year if the person of 44 workplace accidents resulting in employee inwant to change their alcohol habits. juries were reported in 2014. There were 22 lost-time The Group aims for an absence due to illness rate injuries and an lti value of 4.2, which exceeded the of 4.5 per cent or lower. Absence due to illness in Group’s goal of 3.0 or lower. 2014 was 4.5 per cent, the same as in 2013. 30 PRUDENT BUSINESS CONDUCT Procurementstrategy agreement provide an opportunity to audit the the Code of Conduct. Various control and preventive Avinor has developed a dedicated procurement supplier. Any material breach of an agreement on measures have been established, which together will strategy which will quality-assure the Group’s proprudent business conduct entitles Avinor to termireduce the Group’s risk of contributing to and being curementroutines. These routines supplement the nate all applicable agreements with the supplier, exposed to corruption and irregularities. regulations for public procurement, and will ensure given that questionable matters are not satisfactorily competition and appropriate contract coverage in followed up. Personnel who participate in proWhistleblowing order to achieve economies of scale and secure good curementon behalf of the Avinor Group shall have Avinor has established a committee to process coverage of local contracts. Suppliers are subject to assessed their own impartiality in relation to the reports of questionable matters in all parts of the pre-qualification before they can participate in compurchase in question. organisation. This committee has set up routines petitions for contracts with the company. Businesses for prudent processing of reports. Two reports were with an enforceable judgment for participation in Declaration on related parties processed by the committee in 2014. The committee a criminal organisation or for corruption, fraud or Members of the Group Board and management has also prepared routines and technical solutions money laundering can be excluded from the comsubmit annual self-declarations on related parties, which allow external stakeholders to report quespetition. An effort is under way to further develop a with information about any transactions between tionable matters in Avinor. Processing of these rerequirement specification which will ensure control these parties. An external auditor conducts annual ports shall follow the same procedure as for processof additional circumstances with a supplier before surveys of formal relations between Avinor’s Group ing reports from Group employees. Avinor potentially enters into a contract with this management, the Board and suppliers. The objective supplier. All group-wide agreements are entered is to identify relationships between the mentioned into with an emphasis on the environment. Governparties. Any relationships will be documented and ing documents have been updated to reflect this and reviewed with the person in question. The latter the Environmental Department must be contacted analysis generally confirms information that emerges in connection with entering into any agreements of through the self-declarations. significant importance. Code of conduct Furthermore, in 2015 we will introduce a set of conThe Group Board has stipulated a Code of Conduct tractual terms which will ensure that the suppliers which applies for the Board and all employees. More with which Avinor enters into contracts, have ethical than 90 per cent of all employees have completed guidelines and take corporate social responsibility courses in Avinor’s Code of Conduct, which e.g. seriously. Together, the requirements will stipuprohibits corruption, bribes and anti-competitive late Avinor’s principles for human rights, labour behaviour in violation of competition rules. standards, hse, the environment and prohibited business practices. The requirements are aimed at Compliance function suppliers, and an overview is kept of all the Group’s The Group’s compliance function shall follow up to suppliers which have signed an agreement on ensure that the Group complies with external and prudent business conduct. The provisions of the internal regulations linked to corruption, fraud and 31 ØMERKE ILJ T M AVINOR AS Dronning Eufemias gate 6, 0191 Oslo P.O. Box 150, 2061 Gardermoen, Norway post@avinor.no www.avinor.no
