2014 Sustainability Action Report And UNGC Communication of Progress Contents Message from the Managing Directors .........................................................................................................................3 Highlights of 2014 ..........................................................................................................................................................4 Operating Pillars of cKinetics .........................................................................................................................................7 Enabling resource management in Indian businesses .................................................................................................11 Accelerating Sustainable Energy Access Solutions & Models ......................................................................................13 Promoting Disclosure and Reporting in Indian Businesses ..........................................................................................15 Shaping the sustainability conversations in India ........................................................................................................16 Shaping Tracking Systems and Sustainability Metrics .................................................................................................17 Annual Business Responsibility Report 2014 ...............................................................................................................21 2 Accelerating Sustainability Message from the Managing Directors January 1, 2015 cKinetics has been steadily moving forward over the past five years, to create meaningful sustainability impact within businesses through our various areas of work. Our approach continues to be driven with the belief that we are in the midst of a changing economic order that will necessitate the emergence of a Sustainability Economy. Hence we strive to create innovative working models and collaborative platforms for convening the industry on strategic sustainability pathways. In order to strive towards this mission, in 2014, we developed the Organizational Tracking Indicators (OTIs) to ensure our projects and actions are in line with the organizational vision and goals. We expect these OTIs to help us gauge, guide and monitor the efficacy of our actions and the results we help deliver for our partner clients. We continue to develop game changing approaches to frame feasible, impactful and scalable solutions to industry challenges. We work with businesses, investors, industry associations as well as thought leaders to continually generate market insight and catalyze change. In 2014, one of our key achievements has been our industry based work in resource management where our team worked with a large number of suppliers to mainstream resource efficiency practices resulting in tremendous amounts of resource as well as cost savings. Our team also facilitated the implementation of 750 KW installed capacity of Solar DRE mini-grids under a Pan-India Energy Access Initiative. This year, our team also developed two thought leading market insight frameworks: ‘Smart City Maturity Model’ for gauging preparedness of a future city for driving resource optimization and the ‘Embodied Value of Water to benchmark the true value of water in enabling revenue creation. Another path-breaking action has been the unveiling of the first ESG scorecard for India Inc. which tracked the ESG disclosure of the top 120 Indian businesses and helped establish a tangible benchmark for peer level comparison. We also continued to build out our flagship industry engagement platforms: the Annual Summit of the Sustainable Business Leadership Forum (SBLF) and the Parivartan Sustainability Leadership Awards with an overwhelming increased industry participation in 2014. Along with our California based subsidiary, a Benefit Corporation under California law, we are proud to declare our continued support of, and adherence to, the Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact across our operations. In our report this year, we have also included disclosure as per the format of the BRR (Business Responsibility Report) suggested by the Ministry of Corporate Affairs (and adopted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India for the top 100 listed companies in India). Our disclosure is voluntary and perhaps amongst the first by an unlisted services firm and we hope to continue building the firm on these principles in 2015 and beyond. Pawan Mehra Upendra Bhatt Managing Director Managing Director 3 Highlights of 2014 Eco-efficiency and  Contributed annual electricity savings of over 2000 MWh (almost three times from sustainability the previous year) and annual water savings of over 400 million litres (almost five business advisory times over previous year), and annual chemical savings of 800 MT through services Resource Management Practice.  Facilitated the implementation of 750 KW installed capacity of Solar DRE minigrids and engagement as Master Project Development Partner for a USD 80 mn Pan-India Energy Access Initiative  th Market Access and Sustainability Outlook, division of cKinetics hosted the 4 Annual Summit of the Insights Sustainable Business Leadership Forum (SBLF) which convened over 250 corporates, catalyst organizations and other stakeholders  Sustainability Outlook successfully held the fourth edition of the Parivartan Sustainability Leadership Awards: from an initial pool of 600+ initiatives, 20 thought leaders were felicitated. Investment and risk  The first annual ESG benchmark scorecard for India Inc was released to track the advisory ESG Disclosure of the top 120 Indian businesses.  India’s first ESG Benchmarking Tool was released for businesses and investors to compare ESG Disclosure of businesses with peers Thought Leadership Introduced in 2014  Developed one of a kind Organizational Tracking Indicators (OTIs) to ensure the projects and actions are in line with the organizational vision and goals. The OTIs are expected to help us ‘think’ differently and uncover insights, and also help over time measure linkages between the inputs of our work and the change we are able to effect.  Developed the metric Embodied Value of Water (EVW) to capture the true value of water in enabling revenue creation in the industry i.e. for every unit of product, align revenue generated per unit water consumption over its lifetime (specific to product segments for an industry).  Developed the Smart Cities Maturity Model to establish the metrics to be applied for gauging preparedness of a future city for driving resource optimization Influencing Change  7 young sustainability professionals were selected to participate under the cKinetics International Fellowship Program which helps Fellow develop a deeper understanding of Sustainability issues as it pertains with balancing growth with resource usage in emerging markets.  As part of its CSR activities, cKinetics’ team aims to engage with causes that impact the community. In 2014, the team chose to contribute to relief operations for the victims of the floods in Jammu and Kashmir. 4 cKinetics’ expanding regional footprint of Operational and Client engagements Offices Operational presence 5 Image Courtesy: Intel Free Press’s Flickr stream 6 Operating Pillars of cKinetics Our Vision: To accelerate the creation and Our Mission: To develop market driven solutions to maintenance of systems which shape a balance promote the rapid adoption of sustainable growth strategies between current and future resource needs in emerging market industries and communities. Our Vision and Mission are born out of our firm belief: We are in the midst of a changing economic order that will necessitate the emergence of a Sustainability Economy. cKinetics provides specialized operational consulting We help architect and implement growth oriented and strategic services with a focus on a) Resource sustainable solutions by bringing a deep Efficiency and Conservation: Energy, Water, Carbon, understanding of sector dynamics across industries. Waste b) Renewable Energy and Smart Infrastructure and c) Responsible Finance. cKinetics engagements are characterized by a demonstrated commitment to bring about change. As a firm providing end-to-end solutions to investors To demonstrate our firm’s ongoing commitment to and businesses, cKinetics leverages a thought balance traditional financial metrics with process for accelerating sustainable business and environmental and social impact, we incorporated investing practices that include: (a) Closed loop our US entity cKinetics Inc. as a benefit corporation systems, (b) Decentralized production and in 2013. consumption, and (c) Resource conservation. 7 Operating Philosophy People: Our Key Strength The cKinetics team imbibes the following code in its Building a high performing team is central to day-to-day operations: ensuring the success of the various industry interventions undertaken by cKinetics. Hence, we strive to create a balanced, cohesive, diverse and Do: Action counts louder than words. inclusive culture which helps team members to grow Be frugal: Natural resources are scarce and limited; personally as well as professionally while also we must explore more advanced conservation creating value for the organization as a system. measures. Set an example: Serving as an example through We also have a company wide recognition initiative adopting a low-resource footprint is the best way to where team members can present others with ‘be the change’ and understand conservation ‘Smiley’ badges to recognize and showcase extra challenges first-hand. Through exploring new best effort undertaken by individuals – these are practices, cKinetics will constantly seek to attain prominently displayed in the respective work areas. carbon neutrality. Be alert to opportunities: Air, water and land are To ensure the inculcation of team spirit and to considered 'free' (or close to 'free'). We seek to enable internal mentorship opportunities, we have identify cases where resources are undervalued and also instituted a buddy system where team members develop strategies to address this unique market are paired with those of a different business line – to failure. facilitate inter-team networking and cross cultural Be wise on technology: Technology is our biggest and interdisciplinary idea exchange. The buddy ally in increasing efficiency and driving conservation; system is especially beneficial for new entrants to however, it is also our biggest enemy when enabling familiarize themselves with the work culture and runaway consumption. setting. Leverage market driven solutions: cKinetics will design and promote products and services that help cKinetics remains committed to building the align positive environmental impact with tangible ecosystem and sharing knowledge across the diverse financial incentives. participants. On this front, 7 young sustainability Be factual: If it cannot be measured, it is not worth professionals were selected to participate under the doing. Data forms a central pillar for cKinetics. All cKinetics International Fellowship Program which internal initiatives should be quantifiable and helps Fellows develop a deeper understanding of decisions made based on data. Sustainability issues as it pertains with balancing Set imagination free: We are limited only by the growth with resource usage in emerging markets. possibilities we imagine. Dare to think beyond the conventional and make it happen. 8 OPERATING LANDSCAPE AND PERFORMANCE Highlights of our work and impact 9 Image Courtesy: Pixabay 10 Enabling resource management in Indian businesses Our resource management practice differentiates its engagement with manufacturing units by developing mechanisms for understanding and managing their resource consumption, especially energy, water, chemicals and waste streams. A data-driven approach and standardized processes directed at impact creation have allowed cKinetics to lay the groundwork for greater savings and shorter pay-back periods. cKinetics continued to gain traction as ‘Partner of Choice’ for several leading brands and retailers as also their supply chain partners in India, Sri Lanka and Bangladesh. Through the year, this work has been expanded significantly into newer verticals including Pharma and medical devices and plans are afoot to expand to newer geographies including Indonesia, Ethiopia and Cambodia. We now work with 3 of the 5 largest clothing brands and retailers globally in our resource management practice. Sustainability impact catalyzed in 2014 Water savings annualized (million 400 Million litres in 2014 litres) Electricity savings annualized 2000 MWh Chemical savings annualized 800 MT of chemicals In 2014, we doubled the impact of our work and helped over 80 manufacturing firms realize savings on energy, water, chemical usage; while helping them increase production. Using uniquely positioned engagement models with businesses and innovative training modules, our team paved the way for directly observable cost savings and also enabled heightened resource awareness amongst units Creating Identification of Creating goals and Developing a plan Handholding to Measuring indicative focus areas and business case for to implement implement the Impact and baseline of hotspots for resource suggested improvements and reviewing resource savings and efficiency improvements achieve targeted learnings consumption efficiency improvements reduction (energy, carbon, improvements water and waste) 11 Image Courtesy: Licensed under Public Domain via Wikimedia Commons 12 Accelerating Sustainable Energy Access Solutions & Models cKinetics ongoing work in shaping innovative Through 2014, cKinetics efforts have resulted in: operational approaches and financing interventions  Detailed assessments of over 150 odd for sustainable energy, particularly in the energy decentralized renewable energy based sites access space, continues to gain traction.  Launch of projects at 25 sites with another 25 Our work in the Energy Access space has been sites in the final phases of design and recognized by several of the multi-laterals and implementation international agencies and cKinetics has emerged as  Launch of a US$ 80 mn Pan-India Energy Access a trusted and preferred ‘Master Project initiative, Smart Power for Rural Development Development and Investment Support’ Partner to  Feasibility and structuring support for a DFIs, investors, catalysts and several businesses potential € 20 mn line of credit for European DFI establishing projects in this space.  Development of a DRE Franchising model for cKinetics team remains at the forefront of activities catalysing diesel mini-grid operators to in the decentralized generation space and expects to transition to DRE based mini-grids – 5 pilots are help shape implementation of close to 12 MW of under deployment to operationalize the decentralized systems in 2015. elements of this project cKinetics’ service offerings for the Energy Access Space Project development and Portfolio preparation and Incubation of operational technical assistance Financial closure entities • Operational support to • Investment advisory • cKinetics is currently ESCOs in site support to ESCOs incubating 2 solutions – assessment, technoincluding preparation of One for an innovative commercial modelling Investor Outreach Kit Co-Developer fund plant deployment etc and assistance in approach and structure • Providing assessment roadshows and Second a tools and processes for • Recommendations on franchising approach activities such as load portfolio structuring for for DGO conversion to profiling, load curve investors solar based DRE optimization, plant • Support in fund and systems sizing and preparation instrument design and of Detailed Project prospective portfolio Reports due-diligence 13 14 Promoting Disclosure and Reporting in Indian Businesses Enhanced ESG disclosure communicated In 2014, our team developed India’s first ESG appropriately provides an opportunity to companies benchmarking tool for businesses and investors to to attract investors with long-term perspective by compare ESG disclosure of businesses with peers. enhancing and communicating about their ESG cKinetics also authored the first annual ESG performance. Currently there exists a dis-connect benchmark scorecard for India Inc. which tracked between businesses and investors. the ESG disclosure of the top 120 Indian businesses. There was continued engagement with businesses and investors through the year to encourage the adoption of standardized disclosure practices through a multi-stakeholder working group. Some of the products released by the Working Group in 2014 are: 1. ESG Market Pulse India: A quarterly ESG Dashboard a. Allowing businesses and investors to track the key ESG related news and action effecting business in India b. Translate all ESG information into tangible risk and opportunities for businesses and investors c. Build data to establish correlation between ESG risks / opportunities and (share) market movements. 2. Guide for Equity Investors A guide to equity investors to engage with businesses on ESG issues st 3. 1 Annual ESG Benchmark Scorecard for India Inc. st 1 set of ESG Scorecard created globally that can be broken down by parameters, metrics and sectors: A great tool to track parameters where the top 120 Indian businesses are leading and lagging. 4. ESG Benchmarking Tool An Online tool which allows businesses and investors to compare ESG Disclosure of Businesses with peers 15 Shaping the sustainability conversations in India The company’s Sustainability Outlook (SO) Market Briefs information forum and its market leading initiativesIn 2014, a number of thought leading market the Sustainable Business Leadership Forum and intelligence primers were released: Parivartan Sustainability Leadership Awards have ‘Water as a risk to Food and Beverages industry’ emerged as platforms of choice for the decision ‘Moving the market for Sustainable Packaging makers in the space for catalyzing discourse and forward in India’ collaborative action amongst the various Innovation Flipbook on Resource Management stakeholders. Practices in the Textile Industry for Sustainable Chemicals. Industry Engagement In 2014, collectively SO helped catalyze Celebrating industry sustainability leaders engagement with over 1000 companies to Sustainability Outlook successfully held the fourth address challenges and facilitate responses to edition of the Parivartan Sustainability Leadership issues of resource management and corporate Awards: from an initial pool of 600+ initiatives, 20 sustainability. thought leaders were felicitated. th 4 Annual Summit of the Sustainable Business The 2014 Awards had a two stage evaluation process Leadership Forum held on October 16, 2014 where the initial detailed evaluation was done by a brought together senior sustainability experts 30 member Sector Expert Panel consisting of senior and business leaders from over 250 businesses, technical experts followed by detailed scrutiny by a 5 catalysts, service providers and investors. member Grand Jury comprising of industry, policy and technology veterans. Award winners 2014 Corporate Sustainability Stewardship Award Sustainability Trailblazer of the Year Awards  Suresh Prabhu, India’s Sustainability Evangelist  Beroz Gazdar, Sr. Vice President-Group Sustainability, Mahindra & Mahindra Limited and Dr. Yogendra Saxena, Chief Sustainability Officer, Sustainability Innovation Challenge Award Tata Power (CSO of the Year)  Aditya Handa, MD and CEO, Abellon Clean Energy (Entrepreneur of the Year)  Roshan Tamak, Business HeadSugar, Olam Agro (Executive of the Year) Sustainability Industry Compass Awards  Kiran Sarkar, Manager Sustainability, Mahindra & Mahindra (Emerging Leader of the Year) 16 Shaping Tracking Systems and Sustainability Metrics In keeping with our vision of accelerating sustainability, through the year, we were at the forefront of developing systems and metrics to help gauge and guide this journey. Few key initiatives which have upped the bar for the sustainability discourse and seen rapid uptake by the industry in 2014 are illustrated below. Resource Conservation Tool comMIT is an analytics and information aggregation platform developed to enable clients to build insight into their operations. In 2014, a mobile application of the tool was developed, allowing it to be used by Sustainability professionals on the site where resource use is being impacted. Embodied Value of Water cKinetics unveiled a metric on ‘Embodied Value of Water’ (EVW) to capture the true value of water in enabling revenue creation in the Industry i.e. for every unit of product, it is revenue generated per unit water consumption over its lifetime (specific to product segments for an industry). Smart Cities Maturity Model Also in light of the Smart Cities Initiative announced by the Government of India, we have framed a ‘Smart Cities Maturity Model’ to establish the metrics to be applied for gauging preparedness of a future city for driving resource optimization. 17 APPLYING SUSTAINABILITY REPORTING FRAMEWORKS Materiality Assessment, Commitment and Ongoing Engagement 18 Principles of the UNGC Disclosure as per Business As a part of its ongoing commitment to mainstreaming Responsibility Report (BRR) sustainability, cKinetics is proud to support the UN guidelines Global Compact Principles. These principles have been a In addition to disclosing activities as per the UNGC’s strong component of the firm’s core growth strategy and framework for the Communication of Progress, this expansion process. document also carries a disclosure as per the Business Responsibility Report (BRR) template suggested by GoI. Materiality of UNGC Principles The same is detailed in the last section of this report. Given its role as a specialized Sustainability Advisory The framework presents indicators developed from the 9 firm, cKinetics has limited exposure to Sustainability core principles of the National Voluntary Guidelines on Risks and ESG impact through its own operations. Thus, Social, Economic & Environmental Responsibilities of materiality issues surrounding the UNGC Principles, their Business that were announced by the Indian Ministry of implementation and subsequent outcomes have been Corporate Affairs in 2011. evaluated through the following lens: 1. How, and to what extent, do the principles apply to Importance of the BRR Framework cKinetics in its operations? The BRR represents a significant step forward in 2. How, and to what extent, can these principles promoting the widespread adoption of non-financial become central to the service offerings of cKinetics (ESG) disclosure among Indian firms. While cKinetics and, thus, attain the desired impact created through does not face a mandate in disclosing on the BRR its business operations? framework, we are eager to engage with, and promote, this initiative both within our own operations and those of our clients. Actions and Tools for Implementation Code of Conduct The Code of Conduct outlines the expectations and aspirations of cKinetics management and staff in key areas of Human Rights, Corruption and Work Force Environment, etc. Operating Principles As explained in the initial section of this report (on page8), the Operating Principles guide the strategic planning and day-to-day operations of the firm. Policies for dealing with incidents of Human Right Violations and Corruption We are committed to diligently managing our business operations, both internally as well as in external stakeholders, in a manner which reflects our high ethical standards. cKinetics has a zero tolerance policy with respect to incidents of corruption, both in the public and the corporate sphere. 19 Areas Principles Outlook and Undertaking Tools for Implementation Outcomes Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the cKinetics is committed to upholding Human Rights, in its The Code of Conduct defines our commitment to human rights; it There have been reported incidents of Human rights violations in the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; capacity as a responsible business, in letter and in spirit, as outlines our stance and strategy for preventing the abuse of human company and it is material to the company. rights. All employees and extended stakeholders are expected to Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in abide by it. human rights abuses. Operating in India poses a number of unique human rights challenges. cKinetics is committed to the reporting of any Any violation can be reported confidentially (through an human rights violations observed in the course of anonymous email ID) and the individual will be protected from conducting its business operations. repercussions. Labour Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the As a firm with a presence in both the US and India, cKinetics The Company Labour Practices is an internal document which There were no reported violations of Labour Principles freedom of association and the effective is in compliance with all relevant local labor regulations in defines our expectations and commitments regarding employment recognition of the right to collective its respective operations both in our own operations and in those of our partners. Any Each employee met with the manager twice to discuss the violation can be reported confidentially and the individual will be performance, concerns and goals bargaining The prevalence of the informal, unorganized, sector in India protected from repercussions Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of poses a number of distinct challenges in adequately forced and compulsory labour Training and Development assessing some of our small suppliers’ adherence to We conduct weekly, monthly and half yearly meetings with the staff Principle 5: the effective abolition of child Principles 3-5. However, we make a concerted effort to wherein feedback from employees is actively incorporated by Employees are allowed 1 day per month to attend conferences, labour maintain constant vigilance when working with local small management into the company’s policies and strategies. We seminars and programs for knowledge advancement Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect businesses. continually provide opportunities, through training and access to of employment and occupation industry conferences, for our workforce to grow intellectually and All internally reported complaints and concerns were dealt with on a professionally. (See: Supporting our people) priority basis 12 internal sessions conducted on different topics as a part of the Friday Learning Discussions Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary As a small operational consulting firm, cKinetics has a Our offices are currently engaged in actively monitoring and Smart use of resources is an Operating Principle of cKinetics and focus approach to environmental challenges. limited socio-ecological footprint. However, we are actively tracking our electricity consumption using a suite of metering and is on reducing consumption. Principle 8: Businesses should undertake initiatives to engaged in managing our resource consumption and analytics software. promote greater environmental responsibility maintain constant efforts to engage with our employees Collected fines from employees for failing to leave the computer Principle 9: Businesses should encourage the and the community in a responsible fashion. We also encourage and support our employees to be cognizant monitor down/lights turned off development and diffusion of environmentally friendly towards environmental impact and undertake resource efficient Energy measurement system installed to actively track energy technologies Our commitment to sustainability is at the very core of our efforts. consumption business mission, vision, and operations. cKinetics has Reuse of paper made mandatory and recycling is encouraged made strong contributions to sustainability in India (see: Our visiting cards are printed on recycled paper and the stationary Catalyzing Sustainability Action in the Indian Industry ). We (folders) distributed at our convenings are made of recycled paper. seek to create real impact through our various business initiatives. Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against cKinetics supports all 71 articles of the UN Convention The Code of Conduct defines our expectations and commitments There have been no reported incidents of Human rights violations in corruption in all its forms, including extortion and against Corruption (UNCAC). regarding anti-bribery practices both in our own operations and in the company or its vendors bribery those of our partners. We take an active, zero-tolerance, stance against bribery and corrupt business practices through diligent monitoring Any violation can be reported confidentially (through an and enforcement. anonymous email ID) and the individual will be ensured protection from reprisal. 20 Annual Business Responsibility Report 2014 This section presents the disclosure as per Business Responsibility Report (BRR) requirements. The framework presents indicators developed from the 9 core principles of the National Voluntary Guidelines on Social, Economic & Environmental Responsibilities of Business that were announced by the Indian Ministry of Corporate Affairs in 2011. While cKinetics does not face a mandate in disclosing on the BRR framework, we are eager to engage with, and promote, this initiative both within our own operations and those of our clients. This section has been filled out as per the format of the ABRR (Annual Business Responsibility Report) that has been suggested by the Ministry of Corporate Affairs (and adopted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India for the top 100 1 listed companies ). Its public disclosure is part of the National Voluntary Guidelines on Social Environmental and Economic 2 Responsibilities of Business. BR Information 1. Details of Director/Directors responsible for BR a. Details of the Director/Director responsible for implementation of the BR policy/policies  Name Upendra Bhatt  Designation Managing Director b. Details of the BR head S.No. Particulars Details 1 DIN Number (if applicable) 2 Name Shradha Kapur 3 Designation Engagement Manager 4 Telephone number +91.11.4105.1195 5 e-mail ID skpaur@cKinetics.com 2. Principle-wise (as per NVGs) BR Policy/policies (Reply in Y/N) Questions P1 P2 P3 P4 P5 P6 P7 P8 P9 Do you have a policy/policies for.... Y Y NA Y NA Y NA NA NA Has the policy being formulated in consultation Y Y NA Y NA Y NA NA NA with the relevant stakeholders? Does the policy conform to any Y NA NA Y NA Y NA NA NA national/international standards? If yes, specify? (50 words) Has the policy being approved by the Board? Is Y Y NA Y NA Y NA NA NA yes, has it been signed by MD/owner/CEO/appropriate Board Director? 1 http://www.sebi.gov.in/cms/sebi_data/attachdocs/1344915990072.pdf 2 http://www.mca.gov.in/Ministry/latestnews/National_Voluntary_Guidelines_2011_12jul2011.pdf 21 Questions P1 P2 P3 P4 P5 P6 P7 P8 P9 Does the company have a specified committee of Y Y NA Y NA Y NA NA NA the Board/Director/Official to oversee the implementation of the policy? Indicate the link for the policy to be viewed NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA online? Has the policy been formally communicated to all Y Y NA Y NA Y NA NA NA relevant internal and external stakeholders? Does the company have in-house structure to Y Y NA Y NA Y NA NA NA implement the policy/policies? Does the Company have a grievance Y Y NA Y NA Y NA NA NA re-dressal mechanism related to the policy/policies to address stakeholders’ grievances related to the policy/policies? Has the company carried out independent N N N N N N N N N audit/evaluation of the working of this policy by an internal or external agency? 3. Governance related to BR Indicate the frequency with which the Board of Directors, Committee of the Board or CEO assess the BR performance of the Company: Within 3 months, 3-6 months, Annually, More than 1 year  Annually Does the Company publish a BR or a Sustainability Report? What is the hyperlink for viewing this report? How frequently it is published?  The company publishes a Sustainability Action Report which is available on www.cKinetics.com Section: Principle-wise performance Principle 1: Businesses should conduct and govern themselves with Ethics, Transparency and Accountability 1. Does the policy relating to ethics, bribery and corruption cover only the company? Yes/ No. Does it extend to the Group/Joint Ventures/ Suppliers/Contractors/NGOs /Others?  cKinetics’ policy relating to ethics, bribery and corruption extend to its subsidiary, contractors and all businesses it interacts with.  cKinetics is an active supporter of the UN Convention against Corruption; as such, we have adopted a zero-tolerance policy on bribery and corruption. We do not tolerate any of our employees engaging in any form of bribery or corruption. Employees, or persons acting on behalf of the firm, found to be seeking, accepting, or offering a bribe, gift, or other improper payment as a reward for improper performance of a relevant function or activity will be subject to punitive measures (e.g. suspension, termination and legal action).  It is our expectation that all business partners and stakeholders we work with adhere to the same standards. 22 2. How many stakeholder complaints have been received in the past financial year and what percentage was satisfactorily resolved by the management? If so, provide details thereof, in about 50 words or so.  No complaints were received Principle 2: Businesses should provide goods and services that are safe and contribute to sustainability throughout their life cycle 1. List up to 3 of your products or services whose design has incorporated social or environmental concerns, risks and/or opportunities.  cKinetics’ practice areas around Decentralized Renewable Energy (DRE) and around Resource Management and Efficiency (RME) are designed to help customers reduce their resource footprint.  Sustainability Outlook is a market intelligence platform incubated by cKinetics to advance the mainstream conversation around resource conservation and risk mitigation issues  The Sustainable Business Leadership Forum (SBLF) is India’s leading market development platform which equips organizations, managers and industry stakeholders on the ‘how’ of sustainability through a unique programmatic approach comprising of round the year programs and ‘on-ground industry oriented’ work. 2. For each such product, provide the following details in respect of resource use (energy, water, raw material etc.) per unit of product(optional): a) Reduction during sourcing/production/ distribution achieved since the previous year throughout the value chain?  Not applicable b) Reduction during usage by consumers (energy, water) has been achieved since the previous year?  Not applicable. The results of cKinetics’ professional services are summarized in the section titled “2014 Overview and Highlights” 3. Does the company have procedures in place for sustainable sourcing (including transportation)? If yes, what percentage of your inputs was sourced sustainably? Also, provide details thereof, in about 50 words or so.  Whenever possible, the firm sources tools and products which are resource efficient and have the lowest possible environmental impact. However, eco-friendly products are just becoming available in the Indian marketas such, we attempt to simply reduce consumption and reuse/ repurpose existing resources wherever possible. 4. Has the company taken any steps to procure goods and services from local & small producers, including communities surrounding their place of work?  Whenever possible, the firm sources services and products from local vendors / producers (in Delhi/NCR) a) If yes, what steps have been taken to improve their capacity and capability of local and small vendors?  As a small volume buyer, we have limited abilities to influence the production and sourcing method of our vendors. 5. Does the company have a mechanism to recycle products and waste? If yes what is the percentage of recycling of products and waste (separately as <5%, 5-10%, >10%). Also, provide details thereof, in about 50 words or so.  As a professional services firm, our waste streams are non-industrial in nature. At the work-place we have adopted practices on recycling and reuse of paper; e-waste segregation and tracking; printer material recycling; etc. 23 Principle 3: Businesses should promote the well-being of all employees 1. Please indicate the Total number of employees.  20 Full time employees 2. Please indicate the Total number of employees hired on temporary/contractual/casual basis.  10-15 (linked to projects) 3. Please indicate the Number of permanent women employees.  6 employees 4. Please indicate the Number of permanent employees with disabilities  0 5. Do you have an employee association that is recognized by management?  No 6. What percentage of your permanent employees is members of this recognized employee association?  Not Applicable 7. Please indicate the number of complaints relating to child labour, forced labour, involuntary labour, sexual harassment in the last financial year and pending, as on the end of the financial year. S.No. Category No. of complaints filed No. of complaints during the financial year pending as on end of the financial year 1 Child Labour 0 0 2 Forced Labour 0 0 3 Sexual Harrasment 0 0 Principle 4: Businesses should respect the interests of, and be responsive towards all stakeholders, especially those who are disadvantaged, vulnerable and marginalised 1. Has the company mapped its internal and external stakeholders? Yes/No  Partially 2. Out of the above, has the company identified the disadvantaged, vulnerable & marginalized stakeholders?  In select work areas only 3. Are there any special initiatives taken by the company to engage with the disadvantaged, vulnerable and marginalized stakeholders. If so, provide details thereof, in about 50 words or so.  As part of our CSR activities, cKinetics’ team picks up causes to work with that impact the community. In 2014, our team contributed for relief towards flood victims in Jammu and Kashmir  cKinetics’ rural mini-grid work is focused on electrifying villages in economically backward areas. During the year, cKinetics was engaged in helping implement 50 such projects in partnership with 4 key project developers. In addition, we have also engaged on helping launch a franchising model to help deploy highly localized business models for power delivery in this space. Principle 5: Businesses should respect and promote human rights 1. Does the policy of the company on human rights cover only the company or extend to the Group/Joint Ventures/Suppliers/Contractors/NGOs/Others?  It presently covers the company and its subsidiary. 24 2. How many stakeholder complaints have been received in the past financial year and what percent was satisfactorily resolved by the management?  No stakeholder complaints. Principle 6: Business should respect, protect, and make efforts to restore the environment 1. Does the policy related to Principle 6 cover only the company or extends to the Group/Joint Ventures/Suppliers/Contractors/NGOs/others.  Presently the policy covers the company and its subsidiary. 2. Does the company have strategies/ initiatives to address global environmental issues such as climate change, global warming, etc? Y/N. If yes, please give hyperlink for webpage etc.  cKinetics’ own operations have a limited impact since it is an advisory firm. As Sustainability focused advisory firm, all its offerings are geared towards reducing the impact on the environment due to resource consumption. More is available at www.cKinetics.com 3. Does the company identify and assess potential environmental risks? Y/N  NA 4. Does the company have any project related to Clean Development Mechanism? If so, provide details thereof, in about 50 words or so. Also, if Yes, whether any environmental compliance report is filed?  NA 5. Has the company undertaken any other initiatives on – clean technology, energy efficiency, renewable energy, etc. Y/N. If yes, please give hyperlink for web page etc.  Yes. The company has installed an Energy Management System in its own facilities that tracks the usage of energy. 6. Are the Emissions/Waste generated by the company within the permissible limits given by CPCB/SPCB for the financial year being reported?  NA 7. Number of show cause/ legal notices received from CPCB/SPCB which are pending (i.e. not resolved to satisfaction) as on end of Financial Year.  None Principle 7: Businesses, when engaged in influencing public and regulatory policy, should do so in a responsible manner 1. Is your company a member of any trade and chamber or association? If Yes, Name only those major ones that your business deals with:  UN Global Compact  Alliance for an Energy Efficient Economy  Sustainable Business Leadership Forum (SBLF) 2. Have you advocated/lobbied through above associations for the advancement or improvement of public good? Yes/No; if yes specify the broad areas ( drop box: Governance and Administration, Economic Reforms, Inclusive Development Policies, Energy security, Water, Food Security, Sustainable Business Principles, Others)  cKinetics has been engaged in policy research and advocacy in the areas of: Decentralized Renewable Energy; Energy Access; and Disclosure and reporting of Environmental and Social (E&S) metrics through the SBLF. 25 Principle 8: Businesses should support inclusive growth and equitable development 1. Does the company have specified programmes/initiatives/projects in pursuit of the policy related to Principle 8? If yes details thereof.  Yes. As mentioned in Principle 4, as part of its CSR activities, cKinetics’ team picks up causes to work with that impact the community. In 2014, our team contributed for relief towards flood victims in Jammu and Kashmir. 2. Are the programmes/projects undertaken through in-house team/own foundation/external NGO/government structures/any other organization?  Through external NGOs 3. Have you done any impact assessment of your initiative?  cKinetics gets reports on the utilization of the CSR funds. 4. Have you taken steps to ensure that this community development initiative is successfully adopted by the community? Please explain in 50 words, or so.  NA Principle 9: Businesses should engage with and provide value to their customers and consumers in a responsible manner 1. What percentage of customer complaints/consumer cases are pending as on the end of financial year.  None 2. Does the company display product information on the product label, over and above what is mandated as per local laws? Yes/No/N.A. /Remarks(additional information)  NA 3. Is there any case filed by any stakeholder against the company regarding unfair trade practices, irresponsible advertising and/or anti-competitive behaviour during the last five years and pending as on end of financial year. If so, provide details thereof, in about 50 words or so.  No 4. Did your company carry out any consumer survey/ consumer satisfaction trends?  No 26
