Communication on Progress (COP) Period covered by From 25 December 2013 To 25 December 2014 Page 1 Page 1 o of f 77 April 2, 2015 H.E. Ban KiMoon Secretary-General United Nations New York, NY 10017 USA Dear Mr. Secretary-General, I am honored to confirm that the ten principles of the UN Global Compact with respect to human rights, labor, environment, and anticorruption. With this commitment, we express our intent to advance these principles within our sphere of influence, and will make statement of this commitment to our stakeholders and the general public. We also pledge to take part in the activities of the UN Global Compact where appropriate and feasiblethrough, participation in country and local networks, involvement in specialized initiatives and work streams, engagement in partnership projects, and reviewing and providing commentary to participating companies on their Communications on Progress. I am honored to confirm that Best Industrial reaffirms its support of the United Nations Global Compact The Ten Principles in the area of Human Right, Labor, Environment and Anticorruption. In Best Industrial second annual Commitment on Progress, we continue to improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy and daily operation. Sincerely yours, Daw Khine Khine Nwe Deputy Managing Director Best Industrial Company Page 2 Page 2 o of f 77 Human Rights Principles Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human right abuses. Assessment, Policy and Goals We strongly respect and support the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. The protection of Human Rights is embedded in our numerous operating processes and control mechanisms. No discrimination of gender, age, race and religion in employment. Implementation Best Industrial extend No Workplace Discrimination in second COP period. Our new program No Workplace Discrimination is practiced in our Best Industrial Company's production process so that to avoid discrimination among workers. In our employment program, strongly emphasize on Nondiscrimination on workers and among workers. We don't discriminate on Religious, Ethnic, Gender and vulnerable Group in our employment process. Moreover, all workers have right to belief and religion. Best Industrial Knowledge and Information Center share general concept of Universal Declaration of Human Right to its workers. And organization strongly encouraging and supporting each individual’s creativity, innovation and development, enabling each individual’s strengths to build character for the overall to flourish, without compromising its underlying principles. We currently employ 10 handicapped employees who have increased productivity in the factory. These employees have encouraged other employees that nothing can hinder their ability to earn an income. Employees feel that if the handicapped employee, who are missing an arm, or a leg, can produce more then them, they are under producing. Measurement of Outcomes Semi-annual review completed by senior management team. Page 3 Page 3 o of f 77 Labor Principles Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all form Principle 5: the effective abolition of child Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Assessment, Policy and Goals Best Myanmar Industry strongly emphasize on; Company policy to uphold the freedom of association and collective bargaining No child labor No force labor policy Yearly renewed Workers' Manual clearly state the employee rights and responsibilities, and their compensations and benefits Regular staff training and education for employee development Provided the written company policy to all the employee Educate our staff that our company supports and adopt the 10 principles of the UN Global Compact. Help out in emergency response for safety Right to desirable work and to joy trade union Right to Rest and Leisure Respect disability and responsible business Implementation We give permission to organize Trade Union among workers so that to gain collective bargaining. We created Workers Manual through the updated of Ministry of Labors to address responsibility of employers and employees. We create favorable workplace (fresh air, fresh drinking water, rest-room, dining room and toilet) for all workers and frequently detected by committee. Human resource manual refers under “Personnel Recruitment,” it is stated that Best Industrial Company Ltd. opportunity to each individual regardless of race, color, gender, religion, age, sexual orientation, national or ethnic origin, disability, marital status, veteran status, or any other occupationally irrelevant condition. This policy applies to recruitment and advertising; hiring and job assignment; promotion, demotion and transfer; Page 4 Page 4 o of f 77 layoff or termination rates of pay and benefits; selection for training; and the provision of any other human resource services. Maintain and improve diversity in our company Employees are diversified. Our employees include Buddhist, Christian, Muslim, Hindu and Atheist. And they can belief and worship whatever they like. Physically disabled personnel are employed within the organization. Totally, 18 disable person (4% of total employees) happily working in suitable work place. Human Resource policies and procedures supporting the Labor principles and dedicated HR personnel for grievance mechanisms. Policy of freedom of Association and activism based on individual freedom of associations and actions are practiced in Best Industrial. Personnel Recruitment employs over 18 years old only. No force labor; 48 hours per week and 1.5 times overtime allowances for extra hours if any are expressed in Best Industrial Workers Manual clearly. Workers are treated in extra meal allowances for overtimes in Best Myanmar. Best Industrial's HR Policy: monthly salaries & overtime allowances, travel and meal allowances, transportation provision, Social Security Insurances at Social Security Board for the employees, yearly leave entitlements; 6 days of casual leave, 10-15 days of earned leave, 90 days of maternity leave, 3 days of paternity leave, 7 days of marriage leave, 3 to 7 days of Leave for Funerals and Bereavement, 30 days of medical leave, 30 days of fully paid extended medical leave and 90 days of half paid extended medical leave are clearly expressed in Workers Manual of Best Industrial. Measurement of outcomes Semi-annual review completed by senior management team. Page 5 Page 5 o of f 77 Environment Principles Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Assessment, Policy and Goals Awareness raising or training of employees on environmental protection; Reduce waste materials, i.e. paper, water, plastic, etc. Recycling and reusing, i.e. paper, plastic Reduce consumption of electricity – using energy saving LCD monitors for all computers at office, switching off lights when rooms are not in use Reduce consumption of fuels – efficient usage of vehicles and generators Use paperless online reporting and communicating system, Internal Information, when possible Regular maintenance of vehicles, generators and machines for safety and environmentally friendliness Implementation Best Industrial follow and practice The Environmental Conservation Law established in The Republic of the Union of Myanmar. Newsletters are now distributed via email, no hardcopy is provided. Printing of both sides of paper. Submitting our recyclables to recycle centers. Increasing the use of bicycles and pushcarts, factory waste managed by Yangon City Development Committee. Especially, Best Industrial focuses on Beneficial Use and Cleaner Production in production process. We use of the environment or any element or segment of the environment after making required protections from the adverse effects of wastes, discharges, emissions and deposits so as to cause public health, safety or welfare. We apply the continuous application of multistrategy on environmental conservation to processes, products and services to improve the use of resource efficiently, minimize waste, polluted water and emissions and conserve the healthy nature and human environment; to enable to manage and implement for decrease and loss of natural resources and for enabling the sustainable use beneficially; Measurement of outcomes Semi-annual review completed by senior management team Page 6 Page 6 o of f 77 Anti-corruption Principles Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Assessment, Policy and Goals Provide continued education for all level of employees up to about corruption, as well as what to do if one should encounter it. Commitment to be in compliance with all relevant laws, including anti-corruption laws within the company and among the stakeholders Implementation Promotes anti-corrupt environment within the organization’s personnel. Communication of all the employees on anti-corruption policy. We feature articles on corruption and bribery to let the people know current affairs of the state; feature informative and investigative reports on corruptions and its destructive consequences on society and encourage develop e-government software – promote transparency and as a way to help in anticorruption. Measurement of outcomes Semi-annual review completed by senior management team. Page 7 Page 7 o of f 77
