UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015 STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT In the following we present our annual Communication on Progress, where we describe our actions to integrate the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. Since our last COP, Baxx Promotion has worked intensely with implementing and further advancing our overall politics, goal and processes within environment and corporate social responsibility. In late spring we took an important next step when we obtained an ISO certification of both our environmental and quality management system both of which are centered around CSR and responsible sourcing. The continued implementation of both systems will be our focal point in the coming year. We are pleased to reaffirm Baxx Promotion’s continued support to the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-corruption. Yours sincerely, Michael Eriksen CEO, Baxx Promotion 2 VISION AND FOCUS AREAS The CSR and environmental strategy of Baxx Promotion is FUTURE ROAD MAP founded on the 10 principles of the UN’s Global Compact, relating to human rights, labour rights, respect for the We remain committed to continuously develop and improve environment and anti corruption. our performance in all areas of our CSR strategy – we believe our ISO management system serve as the framework Our primary goal is to ensure that our business and how and ensure progress. Our focus for the coming year is to we conduct it, has the least possible adverse impact on implement and align our processes, so that they become an our environment. Where we as a company can exercise integral part of our ISO management and reporting system. most influence, is by designing “sustainable products” for Especially we will focus on developing relevant KPI’s. We will our customers, and encouraging our suppliers to produce continue mapping our supplier network, and follow up with responsibly in all respects. audits. We maintain our goal that 70% of our turnover comes from suppliers that are audited on a regular basis. We will continue and maintain our overall focus areas in our CSR strategy, which is: responsible sourcing/production at our sub-suppliers, minimization of our CO2 emissions relating to transportation and finally bringing as many environmentally friendly products as possible to the market. These areas will continue to serve as a guideline for focusing and prioritizing our resources. Last year we decided that we wanted to structure and strengthen our efforts within CSR and Supply Chain Management as well as Product Quality/Compliance. In cooperation with an external consultant we have created a Qualityand Environmental management system that are based largely on CSRand Product Compliance. This means that our Corporate Social Responsibility has been integrated into our management system and reporting, which ensures that it is embedded in all procedures. In the spring of 2015, we reached the first milestone; our Qualityand Environmental Management system was certified according to the ISO standards. We are very satisfied with the process, and look forward to continuing the work – we have great expectations for the results. 3 HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES ASSESSMENT, POLICY AND GOALS MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES 1. Business should support and respect the Baxx Promotions goal is to actively influence and facilitate Baxx Promotion has formulated a CSR strategy which set protection of internationally proclaimed that both our employees and business partners adhere out that all suppliers will be audited and evaluated against human rights to the Universal Declaration of Human rights. Our overall a set of defined policies and parameters. All violations are vision is only to do business with partners that respect the recorded, and corrective action plans initiated. Continued 2. Business should make sure that they are international conventions on human rights, and share the non-compliance will result in termination of the relationship. not complicit in human rights abuses values of Baxx Promotion. Based on a previously carried out The past year all suppliers have received the revised Baxx risk assessment, we maintain that our focus within human Promotion Code of Conduct. All active suppliers are have rights should lie primarily on our supplier network in Asia. accordingly reaffirmed their full support by signing our revised Code of Conduct/Supplier Manual. The second step in the process has been to assess current IMPLEMENTATION performance level. In accordance with last years goal we have collected and assessed existing Social Audits of our All suppliers are informed about our Code of Conduct and suppliers carried out by independent inspection agencies. are obliged to sign this before entering into a business More than 30 reports from our main suppliers have been relationship with Baxx Promotion. We have an internal analyzed the past year. No non conformance in relations to system for recording and evaluating Code of Conduct human rights has been recorded. compliance. In order to enhance transparency and inform our stakeholders our updated Code of Conduct is also published at our website. 4 LABOUR PRINCIPLES ASSESSMENT, POLICY AND GOALS MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES 3. Business should uphold the freedom of Baxx Promotion believe that everyone has a basic right The past year we have successfully implemented our association and the effective recognition to be free from discrimination and harassment, the right Code of Conduct and Supplier manual. We have met only of the right to collective bargaining to collective bargaining, the right to choose to work freely little resistance, but willingness to cooperate amongst the and not at least that every child should have the right to majority of our suppliers. The general experience is that the 4. The elimination of all forms of forced and education. We have formulated this in our CSR strategy and majority of our suppliers are working on a professional level. compulsory labor our suppliers are held to these standards through our Code of Conduct, which complies with the ILO conventions. Our Internally at Baxx Promotion, we are very aware about 5. The effective abolition of child labor internal risk assessment has identified that the highest risk creating a healthy and attractive work environment for our of non-conformity, lies within our supplier network in Asia. employees. All employees have annual/quarterly reviews 6. The elimination of discrimination in with their manager, focusing on their well-being. We offer respect of employment and occupation IMPLEMENTATION our employees the opportunity to receive massage and physiotherapist treatments during working hours. We Internally we have included a section on labour rights in our arrange and support social events in the work place, and we company handbook. The written policy covers employee accommodate special requests for working hours/conditions rights, compensation and responsibilities. We have a by our employees. Baxx Promotion is aware of any committee with representation from both management and discrimination, and aim at creating a work place with room employees that assesses labour related risks. All employees for all individuals, representing our surrounding society. The receive medical insurance, and are reimbursed for medical following is a table of Baxx Promotions employees by age treatments. We record and evaluate all work related injuries in and gender: order to create a healthy and attractive work environment for our employees. Headcount Male Female Total Age <18 0 0 0,0% Externally, we hold our suppliers to our high standards through Age 18-25 1 1 7% our Code of Conduct. The Baxx Promotion Code of Conduct Age 26-35 1 3 14% has been made an integral part of our Supplier contracts, Age 36-45 5 8 47% and we also encourage our suppliers to ask that their subAge 46+ 4 5 32% suppliers are in compliance. As described in the section on our implementation of the human rights principles, our main focus Total 11 17 28 area lies within our supplier network in Asia. In accordance % 39% 61% 100% with our initiatives within human rights, our implementation evolves around committing all our suppliers to our Code of The following is a table of Baxx Promotions Conduct, and consecutively to implement our procedure Management team by gender: for Social Audits. We will continue to increase presence at Male: 5 62,5% Female: 3 37,5% supplier factories, both through internal and external audits. 5 ENVIRONMENT PRINCIPLES ASSESSMENT, POLICY AND GOALS MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES 7. Businesses should support a precautionBaxx Promotion operates in the business of promotional and In connection with our ISO certification, we have redefined ary approach to environmental challenges give-away articles. The nature of this market is characterized our environmental goals. We have carried out a risk analysis by relatively cheap products with a short Product Life Cycle. of our suppliers, and selected 10 critical suppliers based on 8. Undertake initiatives to promote greater We pride ourselves in doing everything we can to design their environmental risk profile. 5 of these suppliers will be environmental responsibility products that are worth keeping, maximizing our customers audited during the coming year. marketing budgets and visibility, and minimizing the negative 9. Encourage the development and diffusion impact on the environment. We call it sustainable product In order to minimize our C02 emissions, all transportations of environmentally friendly technologies design. are – where possible – planned by sea. Any deviation will be registered, and will serve as KPI. Baxx Promotions overall aim is to only bring safe products, that live up to all applicable laws and standards, to Last year we consolidated our warehouse facilities into the market. As our product range and application is so one warehouse, which has led to a reduction in our energy widespread this is inherent challenging. We want to be at consumption of more than 20%. We have already optimized the forefront, why we have chosen to commit ourselves our energy consumption, and will therefore look into buying to a high standard by obtaining an ISO certification of our “green energy” as the next step. environmental management system. In order to ensure product compliance and product safety, IMPLEMENTATION we have increased the number of tests – planned as well as unplanned – of REACH compliance. Baxx Promotion has worked intensely the past year with our environmental policy and procedures, and in spring 2015 we CASE: DOUBLE ISO CERTIFICATION obtained the ISO 14001 certification of our environmental In 2015 Baxx Promotion A/S – including our HK based sourcing office management system. At the same time we were also certified – has been certified according to ISO 9001:2008 and ISO 14001:2004. The core of both our Quality and Environmental Management systems according to ISO 9001. We have chosen to make Product is product compliance. With product compliance we mean that our Compliance (legal and environmental) the cornerstone of our products should always: quality management system. Live up to all applicable national laws and standards in EU, both concerning product safety and environment We have further anchored our collection of “sustainable” products Be manufactured responsibly that our suppliers as a minimum launched last year, together with the initiative where we present adhere to applicable national laws and the ILO conventions our customers with a “sustainable” or “green” alternative when We believe our ISO reporting system will help us to maintain focus, developing customized products. ensure that the processes are embedded in our daily work and force us to keep improving our efforts within CSR! In the coming year we will work towards making our environmental impact and initiatives measurable and setting up KPI’s. 6 ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLES ASSESSMENT, POLICY AND GOALS 10. 10. Business should work against Baxx Promotion follows a strict policy of zero tolerance of corruption in all its forms, including all forms of corruption, including bribery, facility payments, extortion and bribery. kickbacks, theft, blackmail, fraud and favoritism. We expect all our suppliers and employees to adhere to this principle. IMPLEMENTATION All employees and suppliers of Baxx Promotion have been made aware of our policy on anti-corruption through our Code of Conduct. Also the area is covered in individual employment contracts, stating our company policy regarding gifts, hospitality and entertainment. MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES Baxx Promotion has never been involved in any legal cases or any other accusations regarding corruption or bribery. We keep a strict record of all stock and samples, to ensure that they are not misused in any quid-pro-quo exchange. No cases have been recorded the past year. 7 It is easy and safe to be a Baxx customer! See all facts about our CSR strategy, Code of Conduct, UN Global Compact and our ISO certification on baxxpromotion.com NAL NAL IO IO INTERNAT RTIFICA INTERNAT RTIFICA CE T CE T NS NS IO IO BAXX PROMOTION A/S // MARSVEJ 26 // 6000 DK-KOLDING TLF. 75 52 50 00 // BAXX@BAXXPROMOTION.COM
