JULIE SANDLAU VIETNAM COP 2015 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015 I. A statement of continued support for the Global Compact I am pleased to confirm that Julie Sandlau Vietnam continues supporting the ten principles of the Global Compact with respect to Human Rights, Labor Rights, Environment and anti-corruption. With this annual report, we express our intent to advance those principles within our sphere of influence. We are committed to make the Global Compact and its principles part of the strategy, culture and dayto-day operations of our company, and to engage in collaborative projects which advance the broader development goals of the United Nations, particularly the Millennium Development Goals. Julie Sandlau Vietnam will make a clear statement of this commitment to our stakeholders and the general public. 28th October 2015 Mr. Soren Roed Pedersen CEO/Julie Sandlau Vietnam 1|Page JULIE SANDLAU VIETNAM COP 2015 II. Introduction: 1. About Julie Sandlau Vietnam. Company : Julie Sandlau Vietnam Co. Ltd. Address : Km 9, Lang Hoa Lac Street, An Khanh Commune, Hoai Duc District, Hanoi, Vietnam. Contact Person : Soren Roed Pedersen, General Director Tel: +84 433 65 67 68 Soren@juliesandlauvn.com Reporting Period : 28th October 2015 – 28th October 2016 Membership Date : 08th November 2012 Sector : Jewelry designing and producing Number of Employees : 381 2. Brief description of nature of business a. The Company Julie Sandlau Vietnam Co. Ltd. Is 100% foreign own factory from Denmark located at Km 9 Lang Hoa Lac Street, An Khanh Commune, Hoai Duc District, Hanoi, Vietnam. We are specializing in producing & exporting high-end jewelry. b. CSR Julie Sandlau Vietnam has high focus on social responsibility and as a part of our Corporate Social Responsibility it is a wish to be able to comply according to the UN Global Compact and its 10 principles throughout the organization and collaborators. c. Julie Sandlau Vietnam CSR Vision Julie Sandlau Vietnam vision and intension is to act social responsible both local and global based on the principle and intension of the UN Global Conduct and support the values within:  Human Rights  Labor Rights  Environment  Anti-corruption 3. Availability of this COP This COP is available online at www.unglobalcompact.org . It will also be distributed to clients and suppliers as well as being forwarded to any requesting parties. 2|Page JULIE SANDLAU VIETNAM COP 2015 This is our third COP report since 2013. It gives us great inspiration to review completed works as well as motivate us to continue upcoming positive activities. Last September, Julie Sandlau Vietnam (JSV) was actually proud to have completed a helpful campaign called “Blood Donation” for the community which is co-organized by the Company and National Institute of Hematology and Blood Transfusion. The amount of blood units collected was up to 20,750 ml. We saw many bright smiles of our employees when we informed that their health were good enough to donate blood. This meaningful activity has been generating very powerful and positive spirit among our company. The company has periodically published internal newsletter every two months not only to mark valuable events but also to improve communication to employees. The publication covers subjects of departments, colleagues and team-building activities in the company. Above all, we attempted to inform to all staffs about the company’s core values and goals that we are looking forward to achieve together. In order to promote the reading culture, last year we added a lot of books to our company’s library, in which every employee could take home any item they wanted to borrow for free. The budget for buying books came from selling paper waste which was removed after careful classification. We also save the waste of paper by encouraging staffs to receive pay-slip via email instead of using printing paper. This initially seems to be annoyed to some workers who do not have the habit of using computers. However, after a period of implementing, they found the new method is more convenient. They even derive more benefits from this remarkable change. This year, the company continued to organize a travel trip for all employees. Selected destination for the vacation is Sam Son, one of the most beautiful beaches in Vietnam. It is an ideal 3|Page JULIE SANDLAU VIETNAM COP 2015 place to foster the solidarity among JSV’s staffs through several team-building activities. We have together experienced really memorable moments. We have expanded the factory by renting ore more area of land to building a new building next to old one; thereby providing us a larger space for general activities. For example, on Children's Day Festival, we had enough space for all staffs and their children. We have prepared music performances with some cheerleading, clowns and small gifts for the children. We wish to do better things for kids so we will try to have more interesting actions for them in next years. JSV has held a variety of training sessions aiming at enhancing awareness of Vietnam Labor Code for the staffs. Issues most concerned by our employees includes the Law of Social Insurance, Health Insurance and Unemployment Insurance. With the purpose to transmit knowledge of those subjects and to make clear for the employee’s questions, the company has cooperated with local Labor Union to invite some experts for presentation and discussion. As the result, the participants felt pleased to know that the company has been complying with the Law strictly. In addition, they have gained more knowledge of their rights and responsibilities to society. One of our remarkable events was a workshop of How to create business culture and secrets to keep family happiness for female workers . It was held on the occasion of International Women’s Day (March 8 th) and considered as a valuable gift for all JSV women. People listened to the speaker’s sharing of stories often happening in families and her suggestion to solve those problems. In Vietnam culture, women play an essential role in maintaining the family happiness. A common quote of Vietnamese is Husbands are the earners while wives are the keepers , the wife is the person who manages the money for spending. They are also responsible for all of housework in the family. Therefore, to balance all things seems to be challenging. Through the workshop, the staffs had time to reflect themselves and figured out their own ways to improve their lives. 4|Page JULIE SANDLAU VIETNAM COP 2015 Last year we seriously embarked on launching a campaign called Lean Management which is based on 5S criteria: Sort, Set-in-order, Shine, Standardize and Sustain. Specifically, we offer training courses for all employees to raise their awareness of Lean. Then, from building up specific criteria appropriate to each department, we set up movements to compete among departments and guide them on mutual checking. Our factory has never been cleaner and neater; everything is optimized. As planned, we are going to promote this campaign until everything goes into its track and forms habits. Besides mentioned activities, we still keep the ones implemented in previous years, including financial assistance for pupils in need in Bac Ninh Province. We still plan to maintain those meaningful support in next years. Finally, we commit to strictly follow principles of the Agreement, striving to create a good environment of corporate culture. 5|Page
