2014 Annual Report ”la Caixa” Foundation Tangible results of our programmes 763,250 13,956 Beneficiaries 930 People with of programmes Social initiative advanced 26,000 diseases attended for the elderly projects Social homes 13,000 ”la Caixa” volunteers 18,405 Job placements 2,014,289 19,000,000 eduCaixa users 197 Invested 56,875 ”la Caixa” in research 219 scholarships Projects to Children attended CaixaProinfancia restore natural areas 49,200 Visitors to the Palau Macaya 116,477 9,562,191 (estimate) Beneficiaries Children vaccinated 40,150 23 Activities International cooperation projects 2,407,199 Visitors to CaixaForum 739,649 Visitors to CosmoCaixa 1,500,000 31,237 Visitors to Spectators of travelling exhibitions participatory concerts 101,183 Children at the Hospital CiberCaixa 98,236 Participants in community activities 110 years of the Foundation 1904 1947 1985 Francesc Moragas founds the Caja de ”la Caixa”” acquires the Palau Macaya Start of the Contemporary Art Collection Pensiones para la Vejez 1949 1986 1907 Educational Institute for the Deaf & Dumb ”la Caixa” helps to integrate former inmates Construction of Cheap Housing and Blind at Palau Macaya 1989 1915 1955 New CaixaForum in Lleida First homage to the Elderly Inauguration of the Caja de Pensiones School Management of almost 100 libraries 1917 First social housing developments 1990 Maternal Works set up 1957 Caja de Ahorros y Pensiones de Barcelona 1918 Network of 20 libraries in the Balearic Islands is founded ”la Caixa” sets itself up to promote 1959 1991 charitable actions. This is the start of the Stock of 25,000 rented flats ”la Caixa” Foundation” is set up, resulting ”la Caixa” Foundation Maintenance and management of 91 libraries from the merger between the two older Integration of civil social organisations foundations 1963 1920 Caja de Pensiones nursery school 1993 Santa Lucía shelter for the blind New CaixaForum in Palma de Mallorca 1972 Acquisition of Montepío de Santa Madrona First family concerts 1st centre for the elderly in Barcelona Montepío turned into the Catalan 1973 1994 Institute for Women 1st exhibition of work by Miquel Barceló Start of a programme of domestic care for 1921 the sick at the ”la Caixa” centre in Felanitx The Cambó Act to organise banks Start of the educational programme Aids, 1974 Educational Institute for the Deaf & knowing how to help Dumb and Blind First public lottery for rented flats 1995 Merger between Congregación de 1975 Creation of IrsiCaixa la Esperanza and Caja de Pensiones, 1st use of the name ”la Caixa” to sum up bringing the Casa de Receso and the brand 1st participative Messiah concert Monte de Piedad 1996 1976 1922 Redefinition of the Foundation’s work: 1st Festival of World Music Torre Bonica Sanatorium ”la Caixa” in schools and day centres for Start of the Babysitter Families programme Catalan Institute of Rehabilitation for the elderly 1997 the Mutilated 1977 IT classes for the elderly 1923 Palau Meca loaned to the Picasso Museum Support for Biomedical Research 1st library in Santa Coloma de Farners A Royal Decree establishes the regulations 1st International Cooperation programme 1926 for the governance bodies and functions 1999 of savings banks 1st training course for NGO managers ”la Caixa” acquires the Palau Meca 1978 Start of the first programme focusing on 1927 1st Festival of Ancient Music Immigration The Popular Library in Vielha opens 1979 Educalia, virtual educational community Guardian Angel Association for children's holiday camps The Palau Macaya opens as a cultural centre 2000 1928 1980 Stage 2000, music training 1st public library Sabadell The Serrano-60 hall opens in Madrid Grants for socio-cultural projects 1st programme of social microcredits 1929 1981 CosmoCaixa Madrid opens Start of Cultural Projects The star of Joan Miró, the new logo for ”la Caixa” 2001 1932 The Sala Montcada opens EspacioCaixa Madrid opens Francesc Moragas Anti-Tuberculosis Institute Inauguration of the Science Museum New CaixaForum in Tarragona 1934 1st Festival of Ancient Music of the Pyrenees 2002 Extension of Agricultural projects 1982 The first Hospital CiberCaixa opens 1935 Marginalisation 2002 programme Start of the ”la Caixa” Scholarship 42 libraries in Catalonia and the Balearic programme 1st grants for environmental projects Islands Aid for research, Society and cancer Aid for research into the WIDER Centre New CaixaForum Girona New CaixaForum in Barcelona (World Institute for Digestive Endoscopy Research) Start of the current Arte y Mecenazgo phase The mediatecaonline.net channel starts up New CaixaForum in Madrid 1st Arte y Mecenazgo awards 2003 Alliance with the Louvre 2012 The Foundation becomes the 1st Private Business Alliance for Child Vaccination. Gavi ”la Caixa” takes over Banca Cívica Foundation in Spain Alliance Spain The Incorpora programme spreads Start of the occupational insertion 2009 to Poland programme for the disabled The Incorpora programme spreads to 3 EspaiCaixa centres open, for people with 2004 Morocco advanced diseases First centenary of ”la Caixa” Start of the programme of help to young The Palau Macaya opens as a social think people on probation tank First microcredits for entrepreneurs 1st Great Food Collection 30th anniversary of ”la Caixa” scholarships Start of the Accessible Housing programme 1st ”la Caixa” Social Studies award New KitCaixa Young Entrepreneurs EspacioCaixa Murcia opens Start of the RecerCaixa programme Start of Research into relatives and carers of Creation of the portal www.integrateXXI.es Alliance with the Prado Museum Alzheimer suffers CosmoCaixa Barcelona opens ISGlobal is set up Start of the Science City programme 2005 2010 LaboCosmoCaixa Start of the Violence: zero tolerance Start of the Intercultural Community The 1st ClimaDat station opens programme Intervention programme 10th anniversary of CaixaForum Barcelona Start of the Programme to Support and The programme of Care for people with Agreements with the IDB and CEB Encourage volunteer work advanced diseases spreads to Hong Kong 2013 Creation of the ”la Caixa” Chair Aid for the cancer research unit at the Vall The Fundación de la Esperanza is set up First scholarships for inmates and journalism d'Hebron Oncology Institute VHIO 14 municipalities sign the first Municipal Support and aid for CNIC in cardiovascular Support and aid for the Foundation for Commitment to Social Harmony research research into lung cancer New call for aid applications for Temporary Start of the Conservation of Natural Spaces Support and aid for the Josep Carreras housing to promote social inclusion and Social Rehabilitation programme Research Institute against Leukaemia Start of collaboration between the Banking Start of the Diversons programme 1st FECYT summer science campus Foundations of Banca Cívica and ”la Caixa” 2006 Alliance with MACBA Club de Roma opens its head office at Start of the Incorpora programme 1st participative Messiah by CaixaProinfancia the Palau Macaya Start of the Young people with values 2011 Start of the Young Entrepreneurs programme CaixaBank is set up programme Start of the care for dependents programme Start of the Reincorpora programme Start of the Severo Ochoa scholarships Start of the ”la Caixa” Sealife Support Start of the Social Rent programme New KitCaixa Healthy Habits programme Start of the Social Entrepreneurism The Foundation leads the European Science boat: The route of the Vell Marí programme programme RRI Tools HIVACAT. AIDS Vaccine Research EspaiCaixa Girona opens The ClimaDat network is fully Programme is set up FASVOL is set up implemented 2007 The Contemporary Art Collection travels The first EspaiCaixa opens to care for people MicroBank is set up to Mexico with advanced diseases Start of the CaixaProinfancia programme The Guggenheim hosts the exhibition The Care for people with advanced diseases Start of the Let’s talk about drugs programme spreads to Mexico The Inverted Mirror programme Start of the programme Comisart: New New KitCaixa Ingenium 2008 views on the ”la Caixa” Collection Agreement with the Generalitat to support Start of the Advanced Diseases programme victims through the Violence: zero tolerance Agreement to support the bi-annual programme Joan Miró award Start of the Biomedicine scholarships Start of the eduCaixa programme Agreement with the World Savings Bank Support and aid for advanced research Institute into oncology, cardiovascular genetics and Start of the Ecotrends platform in degenerative diseases CosmoCaixa Educare social entrepreneurism project in Morocco Support and aid for research into The new 3D planetarium opens at Alzheimer's with the Pasqual Maragall CosmoCaixa CooperantesCaixa, an example of good Foundation practice of EU Aid Volunteers Strategic agreement with CSIC Start of the Zero Ageing research project Alliance with the Miró Foundation 2014 Annual Report ”la Caixa” Foundation Contents 4 Letter from the Chairman 7 ”la Caixa” Banking Foundation 11 Offering opportunities to the most vulnerable 31 Supporting progress 45 Bringing culture and science to the public 65 Building a world with less inequality 73 Joint and decentralised activities 77 Commitment to our stakeholders 95 Generating values and activities of ”la Caixa” Banking Foundation 113 Commitment to people 125 Commitment to the environment 131 Data of ”la Caixa” Foundation 2014 Looking further ”la Caixa” Foundation started a new period in 2014, a new phase in its 110 years of history as an organisation dedicated to the progress of people and to promoting social, cultural and educational actions. Adapting to the new legal situation meant that a kind of “made-to-measure suit” had to be produced, resulting in ”la Caixa” Banking Foundation. Remaining faithful to a commitment rooted in society since 1904, each new step, each change and adaptation has provided us with the chance to renew the Institution’s founding values and to reflect, once again, on who we are, what we do and how we do it. In our long century of history, the Foundation has become a driver of change, of transformation and of improvement in society. The combination of many factors has helped to make our story one of shared and sustained success, and one of the key factors has been the capacity of everyone to keep their eyes firmly on people’s needs. Knowing how to see, understand and interpret the demands, needs and challenges, both of individuals and groups, beyond the particular situation at the time has been essential to comprehending how the Foundation has changed and adapted to each circumstance but without giving up any of its essential spirit or principles. Based on this prompt, anticipatory approach, the Foundation’s project has gradually developed from an institution concerned primarily with assistance and planning for the future; an institution infused with the utilitarian spirit of Jeremy Bentham who proposed ways for the most disadvantaged in society to be able to advance with dignity. This early founding spirit made it possible to create ”la Caixa” and to quickly expand its work in the field of medicine and health, culture, education, assistance and agriculture. This spirit will evolve over the years and will uphold the premise of achieving more effective and more efficient social action that is as universal as possible. The Foundation will be a pioneering organisation in meeting this demand, striving to focus on new horizons and new scenarios but always with the commitment to safeguard and improve people’s living conditions. Thanks to its desire to constantly innovate, the Foundation has carried out and promoted the study, investigation and analysis of the strategies to be followed with each target group, be they children or families at risk of poverty and marginalisation or the elderly or those with difficulty in finding a job or a home, the priority groups of the population to whom we devote our social action. Based on the specific characteristics of each of these groups, we’ve conceived, designed and established approaches for our work that are now proving their worth and can be exported to cultural contexts very different to our own. Some obvious examples are the Annual Report ”la Caixa” Banking Foundation 2014 4 Letter from the Chairman Incorpora programme’s approach to socio-occupational insertion, the psycho-social attention provided through the programme of care for people with advanced diseases and the series of actions to enhance social cohesion in communities with a wide range of cultures. ”la Caixa” Foundation is therefore a philanthropic organisation that aspires to be a benchmark for action beyond the volume of resources it dedicates. 110 years after the birth of ”la Caixa” we can now see how far ahead of its time this institution was, with experts in philanthropy from all over the world coming to one of our centres, the Palau Macaya, a venue for thought and reflection, to theorise and debate issues which the founder of ”la Caixa”, Francesc Moragas, was very clear about so many years ago: the cohesive role of social intervention for vulnerable people and groups. Social action through philanthropic organisations must be perceived as closely associated with the future formation of society, as proposed by the Americans Peter Frumkin and Robert Payton, two analysts of social policy and of the world’s social and philanthropic organisations. From a contemporary perspective, these analysts claim that acts resulting from social or philanthropic action have deep roots and a democratic component. Inequality, entrenched social stratification and the risk of marginalisation that require socialisation tools and new models for managing the planet are just some of the most pressing challenges now faced by philanthropic organisations, although I prefer to call them social organisations, such as our own. If these organisations can also become tools to defend social integration and cohesion, they substantially help to increase the “social” life expectancy of the welfare state. After eleven decades, organisations such as ”la Caixa” Foundation have become systemic in today’s world. And this fills us with pride but it must also make us wary because we cannot merely aspire to continue as organic institutions that serve and will serve, ad infinitum, by correcting the inequalities and imbalances created by the system. It is vital to look up, to look further and never give up resolving problems at their root. For this reason we also see ourselves reflected in and identify with global challenges, such as the Millennium Development goals and the fundamental principles of the United Nations Global Compact. That’s why I like to think that our symbol, created by the universal artist Joan Miró, reminds us that we must go on looking up and looking ahead. The horizon may seem far off and impossible but since when has humankind given up on its dreams? The symbol of the star reminds us that aspirations such as those promoted by ”la Caixa” Foundation may be ambitious and may be far, far above, touching the heavens, but that doesn’t mean they’re unattainable. Isidro Fainé Chairman of ”la Caixa” Banking Foundation 5 Annual Report ”la Caixa” Banking Foundation 2014 ”la Caixa” Banking Foundation Nature of the organisation 8 Board of Trustees of ”la Caixa” 9 Banking Foundation Our ADN 10 Nature of the organisation The Fundación Bancaria Caja de Ahorros integrating the assets and liabilities of of the previous governing bodies, setting y Pensiones de Barcelona, ”la Caixa” is the ”la Caixa” Foundation after it was up a Board of Trustees (made up of 15 an independent, privately held, nonprofit, dissolved in October 2014, the entity’s members) and approving new statutes. charitable and social institution whose work for society is now directly managed founding purpose is to promote and carry by the Banking Foundation. The Board of Trustees is the highest out social, welfare, assistance, governing body of ”la Caixa” Banking educational and cultural work. It is The new Banking Foundation is therefore Foundation and is responsible for its governed by Act 26/2013, of 27 a witness and heir to the spirit and governance, administration and overall December, on Savings Banks and Banking tradition that have made it possible to representation, as well as ensuring the Foundations and by Act 50/2002, of 26 carry out such work for the last 110 achievement and fulfilment of its December, on Foundations. years, returning to society part of the founding aims, the protection of its funds profits from the financial business of and the management, preservation, The Foundation is the result of the ”la Caixa”. This step has involved formal custody and defence of the Foundation’s transformation of Caja de Ahorros y changes in the Institution’s architecture assets. Pensiones de Barcelona ”la Caixa” into a but, in changing from a Savings Bank to banking foundation in 2014 in line with a Banking Foundation, the Foundation’s ”la Caixa” Banking Foundation has been that established by Act 26/2013 which has been preserved and remains a priority. set up with 5,868 million euros in equity required savings banks to become banks. corresponding to 23,168,578 shares of ”la Caixa” Banking Foundation manages Criteria CaixaHolding, S.A.U. and, since Adaptation to the new legal framework this work by promoting programmes, 31 December 2014, its net assets have has led to the ”la Caixa” Group being actions, studies, aid and equipment, totalled 20 billion euros. Such figures reorganised with the aim of increasing its both individually and collectively, to carry make it the first foundation on the operational capacity and reinforcing its out social, assistance, charitable and European continent and the third largest social commitment. As a consequence of educational work as well as encouraging in the world. this reorganisation, the ”la Caixa” culture and scientific knowledge. Banking Foundation manages its Activities whose aim must be to reach To carry out the work for which it was participation in CaixaBank indirectly by the largest number of people as created, ”la Caixa” Banking Foundation holding 100% of the capital of Criteria efficiently as possible, whilst prioritising is funded primarily by the resources CaixaHolding, a firm that also holds other those who are particularly vulnerable. earned from its assets and, if applicable, corporate shares in strategic sectors such by other resources from any aid, subsidies as energy, infrastructures, services and This transformation into a Banking or donations received from individuals or the real estate industry. As a result of Foundation also led to the dissolution organisations, both public and private. REPSOL INTERNATIONAL + BANKING & BANKING TELEFóNICA INSURANCE BUSINESS CRITERIA INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY PORTFOLIO PORTFOLIO Annual Report ”la Caixa” Banking Foundation 2014 8 ”la Caixa” Banking Foundation Board of Trustees of ”la Caixa” Banking Foundation Chairman Isidro Fainé Casas Deputy Chairman Trustees Secretary (not member) Alejandro García-Bragado Dalmau Antonio Aguilera Rodríguez Óscar Calderón de Oya Salvador Alemany Mas César Alierta Izuel Deputy Secretary Maria Teresa Bassons Boncompte Alejandro García-Bragado Dalmau Josefina Castellví Piulachs Eugeni Gay Montalvo CEO of ”la Caixa” Javier Godó Muntañola Banking Foundation Francesc Homs Ferret Jaume Giró Ribas Jaime Lanaspa Gatnau Juan-José López Burniol Carlos Slim Helú Javier Solana Madariaga Xavier Ventura Ferrero 9 Annual Report ”la Caixa” Banking Foundation 2014 ”la Caixa” Banking Foundation Our ADN Mission To contribute to the advance of people and society with particular emphasis on the most vulnerable groups, whether through our own programmes, strategic alliances or collaboration with third parties, by means of efficient and, if appropriate, innovative actions, whose results can be evaluated and are transferable to other entities. With a preferred area of action within Spain and with a global and coherent view of the international situation. All this, guided by the goals of the sustainable transformation of society and the creation of opportunities for people Values Humanism Efficiency Solidarity Reflection Integrity Proximity Independence Mission Mission Transcendence Culture of alliances Flexibility Principles of Action Innovation Anticipation Annual Report ”la Caixa” Banking Foundation 2014 10 Offering opportunities to the most vulnerable 12 Introduction Fighting child poverty. 14 CaixaProinfancia Employment Integration, Incorpora and Reincorpora 16 18 Social Housing 20 Comprehensive Care for People with Advanced Diseases 21 Programmes to promote active, healthy ageing among the elderly 23 Programme of Grants for Social Initiative Projects 24 Volunteers 25 Intercultural Community Intervention 27 Fundación de la Esperanza 28 Social Entrepreneurism 29 Violence: zero tolerance 29 Let’s talk about drugs 30 Hospital CiberCaixa 30 CiberCaixa: Let’s stay after class Offering opportunities service for the common good, to provide activities and also for its constant quest to the most vulnerable new opportunities to those who are most for efficiency and improvements in fragile and to attend to problems both managing the economic, material and In 2014 ”la Caixa” Foundation old and new in order to prevent human resources. culminated the process of becoming marginalisation and the fracturing of the ”la Caixa” Banking Foundation, society still form the mainstay, backbone Priority actions a transformation that was necessary and priority for action of the new due to the Savings Bank and Banking ”la Caixa” Banking Foundation. The structural changes have not altered Foundation Act of 27 December 2013. the priorities or lines of action embodied This structural change, which has Sustained budget in the programmes. Fighting child poverty entailed the dissolution and transfer through the CaixaProinfancia programme, of work and resources from the This essence, which makes the promoting access to decent social housing ”la Caixa” Foundation to the new Foundation’s work the soul and spirit of for young people, families and the elderly Banking Foundation, came into effect ”la Caixa”, is also expressed in the fact through the Accessible Housing and Social at the same time as the programmes that the resources allocated to carrying Rent programmes, providing jobs in were being carried out so as not to out the programmes have remained ordinary companies via the Incorpora and interfere with the Institution’s normal unaltered. In 2014, and for the seventh Reincorpora programmes and fostering operations. consecutive year, ”la Caixa” allocated a active, healthy ageing among the elderly budget of 500 million euros to the are still at the top of the actions contained The Foundation’s purpose and essential Foundation’s work. This figure is identical within the social programmes. In 2014 commitment, intrinsic to the Institution to one in 2015, keeping the Banking these programmes attended 56,875 since the Caja de Pensiones was set up Foundation at the forefront of private children at risk of marginalisation, placed in 1904, have been further strengthened foundations in Spain. The Foundation’s 26,300 social homes on the market, in this new incarnation of ”la Caixa” work is a worldwide benchmark both in promoted 18,405 new employment Banking Foundation. The Banking terms of the number of beneficiaries and opportunities and encouraged 763,250 Foundation’s goals are still to act on and maintain the Foundation’s work throughout its broad spectrum: from social, welfare and assistance work to educational and cultural actions, research, etc., as well as broadening and increasing this range of actions, as decided by the Board of Trustees, to adapt them to the specific circumstances and needs of the time. The Foundation’s work as a whole is still capable of being flexible, adapting to and anticipating needs as part of its innate attributes. Such adaptation and changes in the Foundation’s organisation have also strengthened the solidity and utter validity of its social commitment as a contract taken out with society that focuses particularly on the most vulnerable. This aspect and focus on Annual Report ”la Caixa” Banking Foundation 2014 12 Offering opportunities to the most vulnerable people aged over 65 to take part in more benefitting an estimated 1,600 people. assistance for disadvantaged children, than 16,500 activities programmed at the In the same year the Foundation started encouraging employment among centres for the elderly. up initiatives to relate the participation of people at risk of exclusion, the elderly volunteers to the supervision and support and combating infant mortality. The Some of social area programmes grew for these families so that they could popular footballer and captain of FC substantially in 2014. This is the case of become mentors and help to reinforce Barcelona provided his backing for the Comprehensive Care for Very Ill People the work carried out by professionals the collaboration with the Cruyff programme, which has gone from 29 supporting these families through Foundation to encourage sport among teams providing assistance to a total of programmes, with the overall aim of those at risk of marginalisation and also 42, helping us to involve 104 hospitals and speeding up their inclusion within society. disabled children. Thanks to this 130 domestic care teams in the agreement, ”la Caixa” Foundation and programme. Volunteering takes off the Cruyff Foundation will build a sports facility, a football pitch popularly known Another of the programmes that has seen Volunteers are becoming increasingly as Cruyff Court, in the home town of significant growth is that of Intercultural important for the Foundation’s work as a Barça’s midfield player, the district of Community Intervention which, since means of amplifying and reinforcing the Can Tusell in Terrassa. 2014, has been extended to 39 areas with results of the actions carried out through highly diverse cultures. the programmes. That’s why, in 2014, the This pitch will be the ninth Cruyff Court Foundation decided to extend and open in Spain. These facilities provide small 2014 also saw the consolidation of the up this volunteer work to the whole of football pitches that are open to everyone Fundación de la Esperanza as a place to society. in order to encourage sport among tackle the direct social action within the children and young people and educate Foundation’s programmes. A total of 519 In 2014 the ”la Caixa” Foundation’s them in values such as responsibility, families were attended throughout the year Ambassador, Xavi Hernández, supported integration and team play. Such facilities via the Community Centre of Social Action, the Institution’s priority areas such as are also useful to prevent a sedentary lifestyle and child obesity. There are currently more than 185 Cruyff Courts all over the world. Lastly, social action also has a necessary ally in the form of social organisations. The aid given to social initiative projects has established a network of solidarity in the country with a direct impact on people and groups at risk of marginalisation. In 2014 this aid was given to 930 projects, amounting to 20 million euros, and it’s calculated that the potential beneficiaries total 321,930 people. 1 2 13 Annual Report ”la Caixa” Banking Foundation 2014 Fighting child poverty. Comprehensive care CaixaProinfancia CaixaProinfancia Child poverty actions Evaluations carried out by pilot teams An evaluation of the results achieved showed the advantages of collaboration 56,875 by the 25 teams working in 25 pilot between the different agents involved zones, in neighbourhoods and towns with children and families; coordination 36,853 throughout Spain that are particularly which has served to interrelate the sensitive or where there are larger different aspects and degrees of numbers of vulnerable people, has involvement that may occur in each helped the Fighting child poverty case. In conclusion, there have been Children benefitting Families attended programme to endorse the approach improvements in efficiency, quality and in 2014 in 2014 taken by the CaixaProinfancia the extent of attention provided for 222,167 238,062 programme with the aim of acting families and this action has benefitted 204,022 on priority areas and achieving from the comprehensive and integrated greater coordination and efficiency approach taken by the programme. to implement this model of Cumulative since 2007 comprehensive care for children in Sharing experiences, opinions and 2012 2013 2014 poverty and extend the work to their proposals has also helped to offer new families. perspectives regarding how to tackle such cases, while overlaps were avoided in families living on the borderline of One of the objectives of the services with the consequent savings and poverty and exclusion. CaixaProinfancia programme for improvement in efficiency and progress 2014 was to preserve the model of was made in changing professional This 250000 has led to a resizing of the comprehensive care for children and cultures. teams, adapting them to such urban 200000 their families living in situations of environments but without reducing the poverty through the coordinated and On the other hand, the programme’s attention provided to the children and 150000 efficient work carried out by all agents impact has also become more their home environments. With a view to 100000 involved in helping such people. The sum concentrated since the work carried out 2015, CaixaProinfancia plans to extend of all this effort, coordination between by the pilot teams included the priority of 50000 the work of these pilot teams so that both public and private agents working care with a territorial variant; i.e. focusing they 0 can attend to as large a number of with these children and their family actions on specific areas, zones and children as possible, as the pilot scheme environments as well as a thorough neighbourhoods with a larger number of was limited to a specific number of cases. and detailed analysis and monitoring of cases, has resulted in such actions becoming more effective. This has also helped to spread the culture of teamwork and collaboration among social organisations, NGOs, the education community and healthcare professionals, as well as representatives of public administration, especially the social services provided by councils. 250000 In 2014 the programme attended a total 200000 of 56,875 children and 36,853 families. 150000 CaixaProinfancia is implemented in 11 towns and cities and their respective 100000 metropolitan areas by 371 third sector 50000 organisations, of which 45 act as 0 coordinators, also working with other collaboration networks. Annual Report ”la Caixa” Banking Foundation 2014 14 Offering opportunities to the most vulnerable Summary of the results involved believe that comprehensive, although the specific involvement and integrated social and educational action participation of the whole family is required. The results of evaluations carried out in ensures greater professionalism and 2013 were published throughout 2014. promotes changes in the models and The workshop consists of seven modules, These assessments included parameters procedures of the social work carried out. each one lasting two hours. Work is carried to measure the incidence and impact out with the parents and children separately of actions such as indicators for the On the other hand, the families involved in the first hour while the second hour is academic development of the children believe that the programme improves their shared by the whole family together. Some attended. In 67% of the cases evaluated parenting skills and they feel they receive of the issues dealt with in these sessions are the children improved their school more support from society. Lastly, with how to resolve conflicts, relationships with performance. This has a direct effect on regard to the children attended, apart the school and relational skills. data related to school leaving and failure from their school performance there are rates. Primary school education was also signs of progress in personal This workshop focuses directly on completed in 92.3% of the cases development, with improvements in empowering parents in their role and analysed and 72.9% completed their aspects such as self-esteem and behaviour. improving and enhancing their skills. It secondary education. Lastly, the therefore has an effect on the parents achievement of educational goals was Support for parents who benefit from the programme, making also measured, according to the opinion them jointly responsible with other of the organisations. 70% of these Other instruments within the instruments that go beyond the aid and organisations rate the outcome as highly CaixaProinfancia programme that have support provided by the programme. satisfactory or satisfactory. proven to be highly effective are the workshops to improve and acquire The second level of evaluation focuses on parenting skills: Learning together, families and groups, obtaining qualitative growing as a family. This workshop data that also endorse the programme’s provides specific support aimed at 1 5 6 successful approach. The organisations providing tools and guidance for parents, 15 Annual Report ”la Caixa” Banking Foundation 2014 Employment Integration, presence of a job developer who acts as Incorpora and Reincorpora a go-between to address the different Employment Integration needs arising from any of the parties 86,176 In 2014 the employment integration involved, as well as suggesting, planning programmes experienced a significant and overseeing personalised insertion 18,405 increase with regard to their objectives itineraries. During the employment to create new employment integration process, coaches act as opportunities for groups and people “buddies” and offer guidance before, with particular difficulty in finding a during and after the recruitment process. job. The work carried out to improve Employment Accumulative coordination with social organisations, In 2014 Incorpora was helped by 4,226 placements in 2014 placements companies and the public new companies which, thanks to the work administration have developed into of 817 job developers, made it possible specific programmes such as Incorpora to work with 350 social organisations Throughout 2014 the programme ran Joven and, as in the case of Incorpora specialising in employment integration, training and motivation activities. Such training points, the start of a pilot the end result being 18,405 people being activities were carried out at the programme. Thanks to these initiatives, hired, 3,767 more than 2013. programme’s 15 training points where, 18,405 people were able to find work on average, 45 youngsters per site were in one of the 4,426 new companies Incorpora Joven trained, 625 in total. The programme involved in the project in 2014. The also promoted activities to enable young programme also extended its Incorpora The work of the job developers was decisive people who had previously left awards to the whole of Spain. in this increase, as well as the progressively education early to take up training consolidated collaboration network involving again. These “second-chance” activities The Incorpora awards recognise those organisations, companies and increasing helped to guide and motivate a further companies promoting work placement involvement of public administrations. 375 young people. As a result of an and job creation among those people with Accordingly, the collaboration implemented agreement set up with the Spanish particular difficulties in finding work. The jointly by means of such initiatives as Football Association, a number of awards, which saw their sixth call for Incorpora Joven, which started as an activities were launched aimed at applications in 2014, have been extended agreement with the government of the improving the employment hopes of to all autonomous communities in Spain. autonomous community of Andalusia, young people in Andalusia with sports Consequently, unlike previous occasions enjoyed a very productive 2014. During skills training to act as referees and when only one award existed for the entire the year 2,236 young people were assisted, sports coaches, reaching a total of country, 75 socially responsible companies representing 48% of the total amount 350 youngsters at risk of exclusion. received awards in 2014, standing out as a helped in this community alone, of which result of the number of vulnerable people 339 managed to find work. The Servicio Incorpora also has collaborative they employed. The awards were made Andaluz de Empleo (Andalusian agreements with the Secretariado Gitano up of four different categories: micro firms, Employment Service), along with 23 social (representing the gypsy population), the small and medium-sized companies, big organisations from the community, were Spanish Red Cross and the Aprende y businesses and business groups. The winners also involved in providing support. Trabaja programme (Learn and Work). received a sculpture symbolising two hands reaching out to embrace, representing the 120000 gesture of solidarity of mutual assistance. 100000 The trophy is a design by André Ricard (the 80000 artist who designed Barcelona’s ‘92 Olympic torch) and it was made at the Fundación 60000 Autismo Mas Casadevall workshop. 40000 20000 Companies are one of the fundamental 0 links in the chain of employment integration, which is the focus of the programme: helping to create a collaborative network among social organisations and companies. Fundamental to this process is the Annual Report ”la Caixa” Banking Foundation 2014 16 Offering opportunities to the most vulnerable Training points implementation of improvements resulting include volunteer work in conjunction from the studies and assessments carried with the training itself and with the One of the main innovations created as a out in 2013. The only difference between added component of providing individuals result of the programme in 2014 was the the programmes was the specific nature with the chance to get involved in the launch (as a pilot scheme) in four main of the individuals being reinstated in the community. Community service Catalan cities and Madrid (and specifically workplace given that they were inmates strengthens bonds with society and paves aimed at young people from Andalusia) completing the final stages of their the way for developing volunteering of the Incorpora Points. An Incorpora sentence. However, the activities they experience, helping to reinforce learning Point is a physical site located in the were required to do in order to find their and improve attitudes towards work, as very building occupied by the social place again in society and the workplace well as having a positive effect on selforganisations Incorpora is working with. were the very same activities promoted esteem and acquiring a set of values. by the Incorpora programme. In fact, the The Incopora Points that have been Incorpora Points pilot scheme was carried The final stage of the itinerary involves the operating as an experiment during 2014, out with training for these mixed teams. inclusion of the Incorpora programme by four in Barcelona, one in Tarragona, one in The foundation training group was made means of an occupational insertion channel Girona, one in Lleida and five in Madrid, up of 20 people from both the Incorpora with the aim of finding employment. These laid the foundations to roll out a national and the Reincorpora programmes. At the itineraries are adapted to suit each network of training sites in 2015. At each pilot training points in Madrid alone, individual who receives advice and site the participating social organisations 24 training cycles were implemented, guidance in each and every one of the are helped by an advisor and job comprising 300 hours, with the stages in the process. The aim is to facilitate developer. Every stage of the course participation of 480 individuals (192 change through a comprehensive approach within the programme is carried out at inmates and 288 from Incorpora). to activities, consequently helping people the training point. New participants and to overcome emotional hurdles as well as individuals from other social organisations Reincorpora encourages employment problems inherent in looking for work. have access to different training resources integration for prison inmates. During including specific courses, skills training 2014 some of the additional changes The results of the exercise confirm that a and employment accreditation, as well as such as the role of job developers and the total of 1,023 prisoners, out of the 1,703 training for professional skills, a category new training points contributed to a who completed the socio-occupational which provides a wider range of disciplines considerable increase in the number of itineraries, managed to find work. This such as training in job-searching work placements achieved for individuals represents a 60% share of insertion, four techniques and courses on how to acquire completing their itineraries for sociotimes the number of recruitments since the useful skills for future employment. The occupational insertion. programme started, when the percentage focus is on skills related to areas such as of employment integration stood at 20%. teamwork, time management, emotions, These itineraries are a roadmap that must personal image, health and safety, as well be adhered to in the process of helping as training in values such as responsibility, inmates to regain their independence and adaptation and conflict resolution. The enter employment. The aforementioned training also includes work experience six-month itineraries include training in 1 2 3 4 5 6 within a company. The programme professions outside the prisons which envisages a total of 300 hours’ training for each person on a training course. Upon completion, the job developers responsible for monitoring the training also mediate with the different companies which ultimately conclude the process, integrating individuals in the world of work by offering an employment contract. Reincorpora 2014 was a fantastic year for the Reincorpora programme in terms of creating mixed groups with people from the Incorpora programme and the gradual 17 Annual Report ”la Caixa” Banking Foundation 2014 Cumulative annual 2012 2013 2014 Social Housing Consequently the Centralised programme´s housing stock, with rents Social Rent Three different programmes were subsidised by ”la Caixa” Banking carried out in relation to Social Foundation, stands at 6,000, of which 2,050 Housing: Centralised Social Rent, 1,257 were released during 2014. By 1,491 Decentralised Social Rent and year-end 2014, the cumulative number 1,257 Accessible Housing. Centralised of homes delivered stood at 4,798 and Social Rent has placed 1,600 homes was expected to reach 6,000 during the in circulation, with 6,000 being first half of 2015. available for the programme, of which, 4,798 were delivered at the The requirements to be eligible for one Centralised. Flats delivered end of 2014. Decentralised Social of these homes haven’t changed. Rental 1,911 Rent, which is managed through the contracts are issued for a period of five 1,720 ”la Caixa” branches, released a first years, at rents below the market rate consignment of 2,000 homes at the and no higher than €300 per month. Up beginning of 2014 and a further to 50% of this amount is subsidised by 2,000 towards the end of the year, ”la Caixa” Banking Foundation. The aim representing a cumulative total of is to ensure that tenants pay no more 67 6,000 via the programme, of which than €150 per month, including any Decentralised. Flats delivered 3,698 were released at the end of community charges and property tax. 2014. Equally, throughout 2014, Another of the requirements to be met 2012 2013 2014 in Santander and Hospitalet del by applicants is that their earnings Llobregat, the Accessible Housing should not exceed 2.5 times the state programme undertook two new income threshold, the maximum being housing developments aimed €18,000 and the minimum €5,000 housing by 2,000 and at the end of the at young people, families and annually. year Decentralised Social Rent approved the elderly. With these two a further expansion of 2,000 homes, developments, comprising 54 Decentralised Social Rent is managed increasing the number threefold to homes, the programme has reached directly by the ”la Caixa” branches and 6,000 at the end of 2014. its target in terms of the rental also has the same subsidy requirements market, namely 4,000. In 2014 the set by ”la Caixa” Banking Foundation. Throughout 2014, Decentralised Social total number of flats delivered by Early in 2014 it increased its stock of Rent delivered 1,911 homes, bringing the Social Housing programmes was 26,300.1 The number of rented homes made available by means of the Social Rent programme increased significantly in 2014. Social Rent began in 2011 as a way of providing the market with a number of subsidised rented flats, the purpose being to provide decent housing for those people whose income had been affected as a result of the difficult and complex economic situation. In 2014 Centralised Social Rent expanded its supply by 1,600 units, which up until then had totalled 4,400. 1 The total number of housing units delivered via the ”la Caixa” Banking Foundation’s Social Housing programmes and other social housing units managed by the ”la Caixa” Group. Annual Report ”la Caixa” Banking Foundation 2014 18 Offering opportunities to the most vulnerable the total number to 3,698 since the expected to be finished towards the programme started in 2012. This end of 2015. Accessible Housing housing stock consists of homes due to be repossessed so that, in many cases, Accessible Housing has continued to 703 323 families have been able to continue manage and rent out the 4,000 homes 0 living in their own home thanks to the that have been allocated since Flats delivered programme. In such cases the subsidised programme began in 2004. The 3,936 3,936 rental contract is for a period of two programme was started as a way of 3,233 years. In 2014 the option to renew the offering rented social housing to help contract for a further two years was young people become independent, as approved for situations in which the well as providing access to housing for family’s economic situation has not the elderly. Latterly in 2009, this was altered. also extended to families. Rental contracts are for periods of 7, 10 and 25 Cumulative annual Accessible Housing years at prices below the rate for statesubsidised homes and market prices. 2012 2013 2014 Accessible Housing fulfilled its commitment of providing 4,000 homes Improved website in cities and metropolitan areas with information and availability regarding a severe shortage of rented Following an on-going assessment of available housing and developments. Social Rent accommodation. In 2014 construction the management and operations of the began on two new social housing Social Housing programmes, in 2014 2,050 developments in Santander comprising improvements were made to the 37 housing units and, in the case of programme website in order to enhance 1,491 the search for available properties, so 1,257 Hospitalet del Llobregat, an additional 1 2 17 flats. These two developments are that users would have better access to Centralised. Flats delivered 1,911 1,720 67 Decentralised. Flats delivered 2012 2013 2014 19 Annual Report ”la Caixa” Banking Foundation 2014 Comprehensive Care As a result, the 29 Psychosocial Care Institute of Oncology which annually for People with Teams (EAPS) grew in numbers to 42, surveys patients’ degree of satisfaction Advanced Diseases now offering a service to 104 hospitals with their care and the support offered and 130 domestic care teams. Also of by their teams, as well as the healthcare 2014 saw the confirmation by the note is the expansion of three of the professionals working alongside these health system of the work carried out original 29 EAPS at the San Camilo and psychological and social care teams. by the programme of Comprehensive San Rafael health centres, both situated Care for People with Advanced in the Community of Madrid, as well as In 2014 the programme gave new Diseases over its six years of history. Mutuam in Barcelona. It has therefore impetus to the work carried out by Since 2009 the scheme has been possible to expand the service to volunteers also associated with the complemented the work carried out more health centres in these two cities programme and their involvement has by hospitals, palliative care teams and, in the case of Barcelona, support is doubled the effectiveness of the teams, and domestic care teams by offering now offered to all palliative care teams in with volunteers meeting up in Madrid in psychological and social support to the city. October. Volunteers are helped by the people with advanced diseases who programme in the form of specific are nearing the end of their lives. During 2014 the programme provided training, support and monitoring in order This comprehensive approach to social and psychological support as well to optimise the teams’ performance. patients and their families at a as assistance to a total of 13,956 patients These volunteers assist patients and their particularly difficult and sensitive in the final stages of life, support that families essentially by accompanying time has brought about tangible was also widened in 2014 to 19,630 them and helping to boost the human improvements in the quality of the families. In total 65,515 patients and element of the care provided. care offered: improvements in 96,639 families have been helped since emotional support such as suffering the start of this programme six years ago. and distress as well as broadening care in previously underdeveloped areas such as the sense of loss and Research is also encouraged and grief. This wealth of tried and tested promoted by this programme through its 1 2 knowledge has enabled the growth scientific management, the Catalan of the psychological and social support teams, now offering the service to a larger number of health centres and domestic care teams. The commitment undertaken by ”la Caixa” Banking Foundation, via an agreement taken out in Madrid with the Ministry of Health and Social Services at the beginning of July 2014, increased the number of teams by 45%, significantly enhancing their ability to respond. This framework agreement, signed by the Ministry and ”la Caixa” Banking Foundation, represented clear recognition of the complementary work carried out the programmes implemented by the Banking Foundation in areas such as physical and emotional health and psychological and social support; in short, the contribution of such initiatives towards improving the healthcare system, both public and private, promoting compassion in healthcare especially in cases of chronic illness and social vulnerability. Annual Report ”la Caixa” Banking Foundation 2014 20 Offering opportunities to the most vulnerable Programmes to promote New Community Areas The Elderly active, healthy ageing Active, healthy ageing among the elderly In 2014 the elderly care centres continued to progress in the process of 763,250 734,434 Active and healthy ageing becoming areas for training, involvement 636,911 programmes serve as a preventative and promotion of local environments, measure with the aim of providing thereby encouraging a more active role the elderly with the necessary tools on the part of the elderly. In 2014 more and resources for a better quality than 763,000 people took part in the of life. The Less pain, more life 16,500 activities carried out. workshop was one of the innovations Users of the activities of 2014 as part of the programme’s The latest innovation has been the Local 16,587 strategic plan aimed at promoting 16,231 Action activity which encourages the 12,903 health and wellbeing among the elderly to engage more with society, elderly. These activities aim to promoting the creation of a joint project Activities carried out provide people with the knowledge with an institution, association or group 2012 2013 2014 and resources to live as healthy and from their immediate surroundings, active life as possible. neighbourhood or district with the aim of sharing knowledge and experience. The Less pain, more life project was 1,069 varied projects took place in 2014, During 2014, the scheme promoted rolled out to 609 centres for the elderly, ranging from encouraging people to read the creation of community-workforce geared towards dealing with issues such with the elderly in residential homes to networks in which different institutions, as chronic pain. Workshops of this kind storytelling in schools and even associations and public services from the are not meant to provide therapeutic intergenerational allotments, with a total care sector have come together to adapt care or provide solutions for those of 41,139 beneficiaries. to their own areas different plans of diseases and illness that cause pain but action to detect and attend to people in rather to offer tools in order that Loneliness situations of loneliness. These community sufferers are able to adapt better to such frameworks make it possible to establish situations. Learning to live with pain and Regarding the prevention of situations in action protocols that can be evaluated at providing tools to manage this situation which the elderly can feel vulnerable or a later stage with the aim of establishing better helps in our understanding of marginalised, further progress was made approaches and models of care that can pain, of how we face up to it and accept with the Always Accompanied project be rolled out in other regions. it, as well as learning how to express with advice on how to deal with the emotions and feelings and ultimately phenomenon of loneliness. This project is Support for carers of relatives changing our routines and habits so as carried out thanks to the alliance with Alzheimer’s not to allow pain to compromise the between ”la Caixa” Banking Foundation time left for both patients and their and the Catalan Red Cross and is being In 2014 a new phase began in the loved ones. The activities promoted by implemented as a pilot scheme in three research project aimed at carers of the workshop and others related to of Catalonia’s regions: Girona, Terrassa patients affected by Alzheimer’s which health and wellbeing reached a total and Tortosa. began in 2011 in collaboration with 50,691 users in 2014. One of the other strategic plans, namely familiarising the elderly with new information and communication technologies (ICTs), had a huge response during 2014 from users in different centres. The activities and workshops related to this area totalled more than 5,000 in 2014 with the participation of 75,501 people, consolidating its position as training designed, from the outset, to lessen the digital divide among the elderly. 21 Annual Report ”la Caixa” Banking Foundation 2014 the Fundación Pascual Maragall – depression, quality of life in those One of the programme’s objectives was Barcelonabeta Brain Research Center. people affected and independence. to observe and analyse the effects of All the participants were assessed using this specific therapy on carers. The A pre-selection of participants was these parameters and the survey was findings should help to detect any carried out during this new phase, repeated on three occasions throughout improvements in the emotional and resulting in 231 carers of relatives the year. The carer‘s subjective feeling functional condition of the participants affected by the disease being chosen. of being overburdened was measured and consequently if there is any physical using the Zarit questionnaire, one of progress. The criteria required in order to be able the most appropriate. A second tool, to take part in this new phase included: the Goldberg Anxiety and Depression The overall aim of this research is to being the sole non-professional carer of Scale (GADS), measures the establish measures to provide support a relative with Alzheimer and having participant’s state of mind. In order to for carers of Alzheimer sufferers in such received no therapeutic support during evaluate the cognitive state, a series of a way that the applied methodology the whole of the previous year. tests were used including the Minican be used to implement actions to Furthermore, the severity of the Mental Sate Examination (MMSE) while improve their quality of life. The condition in those relatives living with three different tools were used to possible repercussions in terms of the disease, assessed using the Global measure participants’ perceived quality prevention that may be obtained from Deterioration Scale or GDS, had to be of life: a quality of life in adults such findings will be highly significant above three and less than seven, equal questionnaire (Casp-19), a given the progressive increase in life to a deterioration level of between questionnaire on quality of life related expectancy and number of people moderate and acute. to health (SF-36) and the Duke-UNC affected by degenerative diseases such scale which assesses the participant’s as Alzheimer’s. The outcome of the social-demographic perceived support received from society. analysis of participants yielded some Finally, in order to record functional interesting information. The average state, the AD-8 questionnaire was used, age of the 231 carers taking part was analysing perceived subjective changes 60.7, of which 75% were women and in the carer’s everyday life. The findings 25% men. In half the cases a carer had of the three assessments will be 1 2 4 6 been looking after a sufferer from released throughout 2015. between one to four years while 28% have been carers for more than six years, all of them spending in excess of 12 hours a day caring for sufferers. As regards family involvement, in nearly 50% of the cases the responsibility fell to the children of those affected by the disease. Subjective and cognitive assessment of participants 2014 was notable for the creation of therapeutic groups in the new phase of this project, in which participants had already gone through three assessments established in the protocols. The original assessment took place in January 2014, the second in June 2014 and the third was completed in December. It’s important to understand what parameters were assessed in the participating carers: the feeling of being overburdened, levels of anxiety and Annual Report ”la Caixa” Banking Foundation 2014 22 Offering opportunities to the most vulnerable Programme of Grants Banking Foundation is that the projects for Social Initiative should have a broad organisational scope Subsidies for social initiatives Projects and impact via a comprehensive action 18,544 18,730 20,041 plan. In 2014 9% of the projects were via The Programme of Grants for Social partnerships. Factors such as the Initiative Projects helps third sector organisation’s viability, transparency, Investment (million euros) organisations to carry out projects social impact and the promotion and 321,930 with a direct impact on vulnerable participation of volunteers were also 268,415 259,917 people and groups. From the taken into account. beginning of the programme in 1999, support and finance has been The following projects were accepted, awarded to 13,839 projects with a by priority area of action1: total investment of 246.9 million Beneficiaries euros. In 2014, the first ”la Caixa” •D  evelopment of independence and 943 878 930 Awards for innovation and social assistance for the disabled and transformation were held to dependent: 266 projects, 5.2 million recognise innovative contributions euros. Subsidies to dealing with social problems 2012 2013 2014 and the effects of social change • T emporary social housing for social carried out by different institutions. inclusion: 44 projects, 1 million euros. In the case of the award for innovation, the jury made up of experts from third Calls for applications were aimed at •C  ombating poverty and social sector organisations, universities, the organisations with projects in five areas marginalisation: 208 projects approved, government and media groups placed of priority action: socio-occupational 4.7 million euros. particular value on those organisations insertion, assistance for disability and introducing new practices to respond dependency, combating poverty and • S ocio-occupational insertion: 229 to social problems and challenges. social marginalisation, social and projects, 5.6 million euros. As regards the awards for social intercultural action and finally temporary transformation, these emphasised housing. 758 projects relating to the six • P rojects for social action and organisations being able to tackle social general calls for applications1 were intercultural relations: 153 projects, problems in a sustainable way. The approved, with a total investment of 3.1 million euros. award also involves the production and 16.15 million euros. The social impact release of a video highlighting the alone from these initiatives was estimated In 2014 the programme held its first contributions made. at 270,051 beneficiaries. ”la Caixa” Awards for innovation and social transformation. 35 projects were As regards regional calls for applications shortlisted and 10 received awards of carried out in the provinces of Burgos, 15,000 euros each, five in each category, the Canary Islands, Andalusia and the as well as awarding six second prizes of 1 2 4 5 6 7 Community of Valencia, the number of 5,000 euros each. projects chosen was 172 with a total investment of 3.5 million euros. It is estimated that the number of beneficiaries from these projects totals 51,879 people. In 2014, 930 projects were funded, receiving an average of 21,890 euros and implemented in 216 locations. As in previous calls for applications, one of the criteria stipulated by ”la Caixa” 1 These figures do not include calls for applications for Social Entrepreneurism projects or Art for social improvement projects, whose information can be consulted in specific chapters (pp. 28 and 50). 23 Annual Report ”la Caixa” Banking Foundation 2014 Volunteers related to the Foundation’s different programmes. Volunteers The work carried out by volunteers is 148,111 a clear example of how individuals This will be made possible by the can play a significant role in a group. Strategic Plan for Volunteers, approved ”la Caixa” volunteers have made just before the end of 2014. Volunteers and continue to make a decisive related to the ”la Caixa” Banking 1,185 contribution to amplifying the Foundation are organised into actions carried out through ”la Caixa” approximately 40 associations belonging Banking Foundation. After years of to the ”la Caixa” Federation of Volunteer Actions Beneficiaries experience in promoting actions and Associations (FASVOL) but there is also a in 2014 in 2014 supporting programmes, volunteers 70000 large number of volunteers involved in now want to go a step further and60000 programmes such as Comprehensive involve society as a whole. 50000 Care for People with Advanced Diseases, organise two important events related to 40000 with 423 volunteers, those working the designation of Barcelona as European Today the work carried out by the 30000 within the Elderly programme, numbering Volunteering Capital by the European volunteers of ”la Caixa” has achieved 20000 4,324, CiberCaixa volunteers, 1,383 Volunteer Centre (CEV). a level of maturity that allows them 10000 people in total and those involved to open up volunteering to the whole 0 with the recent Young Entrepreneurs The first was the second Market Place of society and ”la Caixa” Banking programme, totalling 546 people, event which places the country’s social Foundation aims to provide them with providing a potential total number of organisations in contact with companies the necessary tools to make this possible. 12,890 volunteers. in order to discover synergies and ensure To this end, work is being carried out to their potential can result in initiatives and unify the organisational models of the Enhancing cohesion activities. The second event was the Iberogroups involved, as well as to make and involvement American Congress on Volunteering which management more efficient and improve aimed to become a means of encouraging the training of volunteers, supporting The Strategic Plan aims to establish dialogue and sharing knowledge and them from the very beginning until channels to ensure this potential in terms experiences between social organisations, they become fully integrated within of resources, abilities and knowledge institutions and companies to analyse the the activities programmed. In this way, result in links and relations between these role of volunteers in firms. actions previously carried out separately volunteer groups and thereby make them (by corporate volunteers on the one stronger. 1,185 actions carried out hand and volunteers involved in the Foundation’s programmes on the other) In 2014 ”la Caixa” Banking Foundation, Finally, in 2014 the corporate volunteers can be brought together to reinforce the through FASVOL and with the of ”la Caixa” carried out 1,185 actions more general work carried out in the collaboration of the Catalan government benefitting an estimated 148,111 people. community and more specific work andGent 3.0 City Council, helped to Barcelona Among the activities repeated every year Envelliment actiu i saludable are Volunteer Day, mobilising 800 ”la Caixa” volunteers at a sports events 763.000 in which 4,500 children at risk of social 734.434 636.911 exclusion took part, as well as accompanying 1,800 vulnerable children to Basketball World Cup matches and the food collection campaign which, in 2014, collected over 550 tonnes. 800000 700000 Usuaris de les activitats 600000 500000 400000 300000 8.987 12.903 16.231 200000 100000 Activitats realitzades 1 0 2 4 6 2011 2012 2013 800000 700000 Annual Report ”la Caixa” Banking Foundation 2014 24 600000 500000 400000 Offering opportunities to the most vulnerable Intercultural Community administrations, experts and professionals Intervention and also citizens to develop social actions Intercultural Community focusing on education, health and citizen Intervention Throughout 2014 work continued relations aimed at promoting intercultural Social harmony and cohesion in multicultural environments on building a model of social harmony. An evaluation of the resulting 98,236 intervention in areas with impact has also helped to detect areas 86,775 multicultural contexts carried out for improvement in citizen relations 75,270 by the Community Intervention and in people’s identification with their programme, achieving a significant70000 neighbourhood. Finally, local administrations improvement in quantitative terms. 60000 have incorporated these targets within their This project, which focuses on 50000 strategic lines of action and initiatives to prevention, promotion and 40000 improve social harmony and cohesion, enrichment and had been 30000 and have become institutionally implemented in 17 different areas,20000 committed to continuing such work to Participants was extended in July 2014 to a 10000 achieve greater levels of citizen harmony 1,052 1,000 total of 39 locations. 0 and prevent possible scenarios of social 550 confrontation and conflict. These 39 areas have taken on a commitment to cooperative and collective The new locations joining this Activities programmed work and leadership in developing and programme have embarked on a three2012 2013 2014 building models to manage cultural year journey that will benefit from the diversity to promote social harmony and experience of promoting community community development. These new spirit and encouraging intercultural The programme also continued to evolve locations have been able to join the relations in the 17 initial areas, in 2014 based on results of the work programme thanks to the results achieved substantially helping to improve the carried out, leading to around 1,000 during the first three years of implementing viability of the project in each location. activities and benefitting an estimated the model in the 17 initial locations. The experience acquired makes it easier 98,236 people. These activities have been to adopt more concrete strategies as well promoted and suggested by the This work has helped to initiate local as apply and further extend this tried and communities themselves, focusing on participation processes with public tested model. education, health and citizen relations Intervenció Comunitària Intercultural Convivència i cohesió social en entorns multiculturals 86.775 75.270 43.905 100000 80000 Participants 60000 40000 521 550 1.052 20000 25 Annual Report ”la Caixa” Banking Foundation 2014 Activitats programades 0 2011 2012 2013 with particular emphasis on actions consolidation of the programme is the the programme and during its benefitting children, young people and hallmark of this proactive approach in implementation, thereby evaluating families. tackling social harmony and, completely the results of the work carried out in in line with the principles of action of the respective locations and helping The new locations will incorporate work ”la Caixa” Foundation, the programme’s to establish a model of intervention, methodologies, team structures and a preventative work enhances the principle the programme’s ultimate aim, on more efficient distribution of resources. of anticipation and other principles such a scientific basis provided by various The programme encourages a new as proximity, flexibility and innovation. indicators of social harmony way of working to create a shared (diversity, tolerance, involvement, responsibility to improve procedures Lastly, one decisive factor in terms of the respect, etc.). and actions affecting local development, direction taken by the programme has stimulating capacities and discovering been the involvement both of citizens collective skills and tools that can and social groups (organisations, identify and take advantage of associations) and also the public challenges, new opportunities and administration, helping to optimise 1 2 6 problems. The overall aim is to prevent resources, for instance reducing the potential situations of conflict and social number of team members. fragmentation through actions carried out for and by the community itself. The impact on those areas recently joining the programme will be evaluated Empowering communities in the via a survey on intercultural harmony implementation, creation and at a local level, both at the start of Annual Report ”la Caixa” Banking Foundation 2014 26 Offering opportunities to the most vulnerable Fundación de la Esperanza provide a personalised analysis of the different situations to be able to carry out Fundación de la Esperanza In 2014 the Fundación de la Esperanza action plans, educational initiatives and 1,600 (Foundation of Hope) continued its the most efficient follow-up possible, work as a centre of intervention either through the resources of the 519 and direct social and community Foundation’s programmes (fighting action in the Gothic quarter of Ciutat poverty, socio-occupational training Vella in Barcelona. itineraries, educational support, occupational insertion, etc.) or by passing Throughout the year the Foundation on such work to social organisations in Families attended Potential beneficiaries particularly concentrated on working the neighbourhood to ensure it is carried in 2014 in 2014 together with social organisations local 70000 to out as effectively as possible. the neighbourhood. This networking has 60000 led to collaboration agreements with 50000 The Centre for Social Action also financing. Lastly, guidance was also entities such as the social housing 40000 manages part of the resources of the provided to create five companies among organisation of Cáritas (Fundación de 30000 fighting child poverty programmes. seven of the beneficiaries. Promoción de la Vivienda Social), as well20000 In 2014 a total of 230 children from as L’Hora de Déu which specialises in 10000 143 families were attended via Volunteers and mentors distributing food to disadvantaged 0 CaixaProinfancia. families, and the Fundación Roure which One of the most successful experiences in manages a social canteen for families, The centre is also the venue for specific 2014 was the participation of volunteers among other organisations. The actions in the Incorpora programme. and their contribution in reinforcing and Foundation’s Community Centre for Social A job developer produces socioamplifying the measures carried out via Action attended a total of 519 families in occupational itineraries to create job the programmes. The campaign to attract 2014, providing personalised assistance in opportunities for people with difficulties new participants provided volunteers with line with the particular situation and needs in finding work, while six training and the chance to become involved in two of each person. It’s estimated that such preparation courses have also been given different areas: firstly, those registered and action has benefitted around 1,600 at the centre focusing on occupations trained as ”la Caixa” volunteers could help people. such as client service and sales assistant. to support various projects and services 360 people were attended in 2014, 70 of offered by the centre while others could A comprehensive venue and support which have found since found a job. The also participate in a mentoring project. Fundación de la Esperanza has also set up This direct social action begins with the a self-employment point which attended Within this project, volunteers act as a experts, educators and social workers 220 people. The service carried out 31 reference for a beneficiary of one of the who represent the first line of contact company plans and has supported the programmes, guiding and advising them with users of the services. Their establishment of 11 entrepreneurial throughout their social inclusion process. professional diagnosis and assessment projects Gent to 3.0extend businesses and secure 10 such mentoring procedures were Envelliment actiu i saludable carried out in 2014 between volunteers and their beneficiaries who received help 763.000 to regain and redirect their lives. 734.434 636.911 The Casa de Receso, which attends to young women in situations of extreme fragility, helped a total of 40 residents in 2014. The vast majority spend between 6 and 15 months at 800000 this home and 72% of 700000 Usuaris de les activitats the cases have suffered from some kind of 600000 domestic violence.500000 400000 300000 8.987 12.903 16.231 200000 100000 Activitats realitzades 0 2011 2012 2013 1 2 4 5 6 800000 27 700000 Annual Report ”la Caixa” Banking Foundation 2014 600000 500000 400000 Social Entrepreneurism Regarding the projects’ income detected an impact in terms of statements, 44% of the social firms have improvements in participants’ health In 2014 the Social Entrepreneurism recorded a profit and 20% of those and wellbeing. programme held its fourth call for recording a loss are about to achieve applications for aid for new social break-even with negative balances of less New perspectives company projects. These are “seed” than 5,000 euros. ideas with the added value of Among some of the important helping to create a fabric of social Social and environmental impact conclusions reached by this evaluation entrepreneurism, professionalising is the fact that there’s a niche of new social organisations so that they can This analysis and evaluation of results has activity and potential growth represented become financially independent. 2014 not only looked at economic figures as by purchases of raw materials and also saw the start of a training course the impact achieved on society regarding consumables. 39% of the projects buy in business administration, managerial aspects such as occupational insertion, from other social organisations although guidance and project mentoring and training and preparing staff and the total volume only represents 16% of promotion, a process in which environmental impact has also been all expenditure. This shows that there’s companies go from the embryonic assessed. The 36 companies on the room for growth in this area by applying stage until completing a business plan programme employ 237 workers and policies to promote purchases from social that guarantees their future viability. 72% of the staff come from occupational companies. With the experience garnered from insertion programmes; i.e. they belong to previous calls for applications, the vulnerable groups or those with particular The 4th call for applications programme evaluated some of the problems in finding employment. In The 4th call for applications took place in impact achieved: almost half the 83% of the cases the project employed 2014, receiving applications from 287 companies from the first two calls are workers who were previously unemployed projects, of which 265 met the making a profit and 20% of those or working in the black economy and requirements established. Out of these making a loss are close to break-even in 38% of the cases these were either applicants, a total of 94 reached the and reversing their negative cycle. young people or aged over 50, two interview phase, resulting in the selection groups with specific problems in finding of a shortlist of 30. Finally, as in previous The projects evaluated are those that were a job. years the process ended with the fully operational at the end of 2013, a selection of the 20 projects to start the total of 36 of the 40 selected from the A total of 16 companies are carrying out programme in 2015. first two calls for applications held in 2011 employment-related training programmes and 2012. These companies have achieved benefitting 438 people; all are people at MicroBank a revenue of 3 million euros, of which risk of social exclusion. In 14% of the about 2.5 million (81.5%) have been cases training has represented a return to The social bank of ”la Caixa”, MicroBank, obtained by selling the products or education and 20% of them found that which provides support for small services they provide. The survival rate for their training helped them to secure businesses, personal and family projects these firms remains stable at 95%. employment. The study has even and also to extend small firms related to social and environmental development, ended 2014 with a portfolio of outstanding loans totalling 671.9 million euros. 1,933 loans have been given via the different types of social microloans to promote self-employment among people at risk of financial exclusion. In the case of family aid and financial microloans up to 25,000 euros, the cumulative number of loans granted totals 99,002 and 41,641 respectively. 3 4 5 6 7 Annual Report ”la Caixa” Banking Foundation 2014 28 Offering opportunities to the most vulnerable Violence: zero tolerance teachers from education centres, previous years since 2012. This training work is carried out on prevention and is aimed at professionals whose work Since the Violence: zero tolerance awareness-raising among young people brings them into contact with the programme started in 2009 it has worked in our society, providing materials elderly: security forces (Guardia Urbana, closely with the Justice Department and designed to prevent violence through the local and Catalan police force), Home Office of Catalonia. This good education and guidance in training and healthcare personnel and chemists as relationship has helped those offices implementing their centre’s project so well as social workers. The training aims dealing with victims to refer individuals to that, ultimately, the young people to raise awareness and help the Foundation’s programmes, helping themselves can transform their professionals to detect situations of them to recover and overcome situations environment. In 2014 76 teachers were violence, as well as how to intervene of abuse and violence. In total, 1,359 trained and 608 secondary students once abuse has been detected, offering victims were attended throughout Spain took part in educational workshops. support to the victim. in 2014, benefitting from workshops on recovery techniques and psychological In 2014 this programme also continued The Treating the elderly well programme and social support at the same time as its project entitled Treating the elderly is carried out with the collaboration of creating support networks and also well. After training professionals to the Family Secretariat of the Catalan joining other Foundation programmes improve detection and intervention in government. such as Incorpora to help them get their abuse of the elderly, an awarenesslives back on track. raising campaign was carried out in Catalonia. The programme continues to work to prevent gender-based violence within 644 professionals were trained in 2014, 1 2 6 the sphere of education. Together with in addition to the 852 trained in Let’s talk about drugs “Hablemos de drogas: una realidad que in collaboration with the General debe tratarse en familia” (Let’s talk about Directorate for Families and Childhood of The Let’s talk about drugs programme, drugs: a reality that should be handled in the Ministry of Health and Social Policy, which works to prevent, inform and raise the family), which offers families strategies which has already attended more than awareness of drug consumption, has to create effective communicative 9,000 families and has handled more continued to focus on education, environments on this issue, as well as than 20,000 calls since it first came into providing the teaching community and a free helpline (900 222 229), developed service. students with tools to learn about the mechanisms of addiction and its repercussions. The programme is implemented in several ways: on the one hand, via the exhibition Let’s talk about drugs and the programme’s website at www.hablemosdedrogas.org, an online source of all the programme’s resources and, on the other hand, awareness-raising campaigns aimed at families, educational materials to work on prevention in the classroom and training campaigns for professionals in health centres to ensure they have the resources to offer up-todate and useful information to establish bridges and dialogue between parents, teenagers and healthcare professionals. Another resource available is the guide for parents and tutors entitled 29 Annual Report ”la Caixa” Banking Foundation 2014 Offering opportunities to the most vulnerable elements of Hospital CiberCaixa for paediatric patients who can’t leave their Hospital CiberCaixa education and training but they also provide a friendly setting for leisure room or area due to the limitations activities, entertainment, communication imposed by their treatment or illness. Hospital CiberCaixa represent one of the and socialising with other patients and The kits are adapted to different profiles most emblematic experiences within the relatives, as well as volunteers and and age groups (3 to 5, 6 to 9 and over mission to make healthcare and its system monitors and even the hospital staff. All 9). This initiative results from the project more human. In 2014, after renewing this takes place in spaces that have been entitled Let’s look after their rights, with collaboration agreements with hospitals adapted and equipped with specific a child’s eyes, which started in 2011 and and health centres holding such spaces, resources (furniture, materials, has gathered qualitative data on factors the 66 Hospital CiberCaixa, 61 paediatric pedagogical kits, etc.) in an environment affecting the emotional wellbeing of and 5 combined (attending to both adults designed to minimise the emotional hospitalised children based on their own and children) attended a total of 129,132 tension involved in staying at a hospital. accounts and those of their families. patients, of which 101,183 were children. This project has produced a series of In terms of indirect beneficiaries such as The work carried out by Hospital CiberCaixa proposals and recommendations that the relatives of hospital patients, the figure spaces is supported by 1,334 volunteers should help to gradually improve the in 2014 was 62,868 families. including people from the corporate quality of care for these patients and volunteer programme, elderly volunteers, make healthcare more human in general. Hospital CiberCaixa provide assistance and support, helping to reduce the the Red Cross and other local volunteer impact and repercussions for patients of associations, reinforcing even further the the time spent in hospital. These spaces main feature of CiberCaixa, namely their make it possible for patients to maintain focus and insistence on personalising the bonds and activities they would attention as a means of improving the 1 2 normally enjoy in their lives outside. satisfaction and also the health of users. In this respect the CiberCaixa are inclusive This goal is also shared by the KitsCaixa tools offering options to continue Ingenium, which incorporate the and detect new skills among the young and capacity to connect with inner CiberCaixa: people using the CiberCaixa spaces. values. Let’s stay after class The target for 2015 is for the 16 Let’s To complete the programme, a set of The CiberCaixa programme Let’s stay stay after class CiberCaixa to incorporate materials has been produced which will after class, which has been working to this new approach as their monitors have be used at the CiberCaixa to spread improve educational opportunities since already been trained in 2014. the programme and help monitors 2007, went a stage further in 2014 to understand what skills are and the adapt to today’s society. The CiberCaixa, To implement the programme, it was different ways they can be identified, which grew to 56 spaces in 2014, have necessary to create a skills map to classify both one’s own skills and also other started a pilot project entitled You’ve got the different kinds of intelligence and people’s, as well as how to work on talent, in which the three CiberCaixa of ensure they can be identified, with the developing the aptitudes detected. Badalona Sur, Bernat de Boil and the aim of helping young people to enhance Fundación de la Esperanza have the skills detected. In 2014, 1,608 children used the developed a design for what will be a CiberCaixa every month on average. new programme. This experience has This map has placed emotional skills in Of these, 10% were new users, so that benefited from the collaboration of the centre as, without these, it is very a total of 1,959 children benefitted the scientific management of the difficult to detect the rest of abilities. from this educational resource during CaixaProinfancia programme and the The other four groups are mental skills, the year. consultancy Infonomia, helping to create corporal skills which are abilities related this new tool. to physical condition and sport (elasticity, energy, strength, flexibility, etc.), social The You’ve got talent programme makes skills regarding how young people relate use of new technologies and instruments with the rest of society and, lastly, such as tablets and Apps to encourage 1 2 transcendence skills, showing an aptitude Annual Report ”la Caixa” Banking Foundation 2014 30 Supporting progress 32 Introduction 36 Scholarships 38 eduCaixa 40 Research 42 The environment 44 Palau Macaya Supporting progress Enhancing education and promoting The educational proposals contained talent has been a fundamental goal by the eduCaixa programme are also The ”la Caixa” Banking Foundation throughout the history of ”la Caixa” inherent in almost all the Foundation’s promotes the progress of society, Foundation’s work, in the belief that actions. Initiatives, workshops, understood as both collective progress support for education at all levels, from exhibitions, shows, experiences and and also as individual advancement infant and primary to higher education activities at the Foundation’s centres and with an effect on one’s surroundings, and training at centres of excellence, extracurricular school visits constantly through programmes that cover a is essential to help construct solid provide opportunities to learn, aimed at wide range of areas. From several foundations for research and innovation enhancing and increasing young people’s fronts, these initiatives provide in the future. Education is therefore one knowledge in the areas of society, culture formulas to help take advantage of the key pillars that must be protected and science, as well as more specifically of opportunities to progress in areas and preserved to ensure the wellbeing of through financial and business education. such as quality education and future generations. university training, encouraging All the educational resources just and promoting excellence in research These goals are perfectly embodied by a click away and the transfer of knowledge programmes such as eduCaixa, which and supporting initiatives to make has now accumulated almost 40 years These educational proposals are now development more sustainable. of experience, and the ”la Caixa” available on a single platform, the Lastly, the Foundation also provides scholarship programme, another of eduCaixa portal, containing all the opportunities to reflect on and debate the Foundation’s veteran programmes educational services and pedagogical issues of particular importance for with a total of 32 annual calls for resources provided for students aged society. applications. between three and eighteen. Annual Report ”la Caixa” Banking Foundation 2014 32 Supporting progress This comprehensive library and service In 2014, these agreements entailed as studying and investigating the is available to the whole teaching investment totalling 19 million euros for development of resistance to the virus in community; in other words, not only research programmes and a cumulative different types of patients. In 2014 it students but also teachers, education investment of 113 million euros since published two important studies with professionals and parent associations. 1993, the year when the ”la Caixa” AIDS practical implications for hospital 2,014,289 people benefitted from the research institute was set up, IrsiCaixa. protocols and procedures. eduCaixa portal in 2014, representing an increase in the number of beneficiaries Grants were also given out in 2014 for Cancer research by the Hospital Vall and users for all these activities, which the fourth call for applications of the d’Hebron Institute of Oncology (VHIO) can be carried out both inside and RecerCaixa programme which selects the and other institutions such as the Sloan outside the classroom, online and also best research projects from public and Kettering Center, the Josep Carreras in face-to-face sessions thanks to the private universities out of the hundreds of Foundation and the Hospital Germans comprehensive range of activities on candidates applying. Some of the projects Trias i Pujol have also benefitted from the offer – an offer that is constantly being from the first calls for applications came Foundation’s support. updated and enhanced with the inclusion to fruition in 2014, such as studies of of new proposals for all levels of the emerging phenomenon of social Bringing knowledge to society education. agriculture, the economic impact of the crisis on different cities and Given the possibility that research Agreements for top level research neighbourhoods in the country and the findings may be of use to society; i.e. that development of a pioneering application they may effectively resolve truly essential This goal coincides with the research in Europe to warn of potentially harmful and fundamental issues for society, in programmes the Foundation helps to audiovisual content transmitted by the 2014 the Foundation worked along two develop via different agreements with media. specific lines. Firstly, it promoted projects research centres, laboratories and groups. whose knowledge can be passed quickly The aim is to boost research that has a Year after year the IrsiCaixa Institute on to society in the form of new particularly significant impact on society, for AIDS Research continues to enhance treatments, new instruments and tools to such as research into cancer, the fight its reputation as a global benchmark make people’s lives easier or to develop against AIDS and heart disease. This in the fight against AIDS, leading an new drugs. Secondly, by leading the research is mostly aimed at the areas of international consortium to reproduce implementation of responsible research life and health sciences, social science the conditions for curing infected and innovation in Europe via the Europeand humanities. patients via stem cell therapies, as well wide project, RRI Tools, to encourage a 33 Annual Report ”la Caixa” Banking Foundation 2014 new culture that brings advanced science Maragall Foundation for the early the support provided to the WIDER centre closer together with this need to serve detection of Alzheimer’s. This study of research into experimental digestive and be of use in resolving socially relevant initially had a broad spectrum covering endoscopy, as well as other research issues and for a rapid transfer of the 2,500 people but 300 new volunteers centres focusing on foetal pathologies, results achieved to society. were recruited in 2014, the children of infantile diabetes, multiple sclerosis and those affected by this degenerative neurosurgery. For this reason, in 2014 five projects disease. were promoted with leading centres, Sustainable human development each one being given 200,000 euros. 2014 was also a prolific year in terms of This has made it possible, in the same findings from research promoted by the The ”la Caixa” Banking Foundation year, to publish relevant studies on Foundation. The genetic cardiovascular is highly aware that, together with the mechanisms of breast cancer programme by the Girona Biomedical education and research, preserving progression and for Catalonia to be Research Institute presented the the environment is one of the best chosen as the European Genomefindings of its research into sudden guarantees for the future development of Phenome Archive, an essential database death while, in the field of heart society. That’s why it helps to ensure such to carry out research into cancer, disease, ”la Caixa” Foundation also development is truly sustainable and the diabetes, auto-immune diseases and collaborates with the National Centre of programmes carried out in 2014 related neurological disorders. Cardiovascular Research (CNIC) and the to the preservation and analysis of the Spanish Society of Cardiovascular environment implemented several Along the same line of supporting Thoracic Surgery. different strategies and instruments research with the greatest impact on aimed at this goal, the most notable society, in 2014 work continued on the Completing this panorama of top level being the Ecoinnovation Laboratory and Alfa study carried out by the Pasqual research promoted by the Foundation is Medclic. Annual Report ”la Caixa” Banking Foundation 2014 34 Supporting progress The Ecoinnovation Laboratory, promoted together with the Environmental Forum Foundation, studies business experiences that apply sustainable solutions and technologies or that produce such solutions or technologies in the form of products and services that include the vital attribute of respect for and preservation of the environment. The aim is to gradually extend these good practices and to boost business competition based on the incorporation of new technologies and cleaner solutions with less impact. Medclic is an initiative to create a network to measure parameters in the Mediterranean Sea that affect climate change. The Foundation has already contributed by creating one such pioneering network to measure climate change parameters, namely ClimaDat, implemented in eight natural areas and biosphere reserves in Spain. Now it’s network aims to be accessible and of where this progress is heading since looking towards the sea to carry out public. this will help to establish clear lines ocean viability studies that analyse the regarding how we should act. This is the behaviour of marine currents and how What progress? The Palau Macaya function of the Palau Macaya as a centre their variation and alteration, as well as responds for debate and practical reflection on the anthropic impact on the marine relevant social issues of global environment, affect ecosystems. Like Working to promote progress in society importance. ClimaDat, this new data recording involves having the necessary knowledge In 2014 the centre enhanced its reputation as a place for debate and a venue that attracts key international figures in different areas and disciplines such as economics, the environment, wellbeing and social cohesion, philanthropy, politics and international relations, philosophy and ethics. The centre’s facilities have held discussions on the role of science and technology in society via different cycles such as RecerCaixa dialogues, the Futures and Reflections cycles and debates under the auspices of the Club of Rome, whose headquarters are in the Palau Macaya. Among the exceptional guest speakers in 2014 were the Archbishop of Johannesburg and winner of the Nobel Peace Prize Desmond Tutu, as well as the Economics Nobel Prize-winner Reinhard Selten, among many other outstanding figures. 35 Annual Report ”la Caixa” Banking Foundation 2014 Scholarships due to the rise in the number of centres obtaining the Severo Ochoa seal of Scholarships ”la Caixa” scholarship programmes excellence and quality, putting them in 120 have been an indispensable tool a position to welcome researchers who in terms of promoting research might benefit from this programme, excellence and social progress. dedicated to encouraging research and 52 Grants for quality education and the development. During the second call 25 development of talent at leading for applications the number of Severo university centres both at home and Ochoa scholarships available rose to 52 abroad underwent two changes in and the eight accredited centres to 13. International Severo Ochoa Doctorate 2014. Firstly, there was an increase The five new centres being accredited scholarships scholarships scholarships in the number of Severo Ochoa as centres of excellence are: the Centre AWARDED IN 2014 Doctorate Scholarships as well as the for Genomic Regulation in Barcelona number of centres granted the seal (CRG), the Doñana Biological Station of quality. Secondly, the programme (EBD), the Institute for High Energy students were chosen in 2014 out of the opened up a new line offering Physics (IFAE), the Institute for 736 applications presented. scholarships for the Asia Pacific Theoretical Physics (IFT) and the region to other disciplines, up until Institute of Chemical Technology (ITQ). Asia Pacific scholarships now restricted exclusively to the Master in Business Administration The Severo Ochoa doctorate scholarships In 2014 the first call for scholarship (MBA). The Scholarship programme help centres to attract the best applications to study at university centres has established a reputation based researchers in order to carry out research in the Asia Pacific region was held. on excellence and quality and each based on their prospective doctorate The area covered consists of campuses year the selection processes mobilises thesis at their premises. The scholarship is in six countries: China, Singapore, India, experts and lecturers from all over valid for four years and the aid given for Australia, South Korea and Japan. 120 Europe. each scholarship totals 113,500 euros. This call for applications is a further 100 development of the programme for In 2014 the Severo Ochoa doctorate 80 Besides these doctorate scholarships, the scholarships to study a Master in Business scholarships saw an increase in the programme 60 has a further 25 annual Administration (MBA), initiated in 2005 number scholarships from the second scholarships 40 for research studies at and which now is open to other call for applications. This was possible Spanish 20 universities and 25 scholarship disciplines. 0 Annual Report ”la Caixa” Banking Foundation 2014 36 Supporting progress 2014 also saw a call for applications for Vice President of MIT (Massachusetts International Chamber of Commerce, international scholarships, providing 120 Institute of Technology) and the Jordi Sellarès, both ”la Caixa” scholars, grants with a total investment of 7.86 ”la Caixa” scholar, Israel Ruiz. The talk the mountaineer and cameraman Ferran million euros. Since it began, this was chaired by the journalist Mònica Latorre and scholarship holder Oriol established programme has provided this Terribas, also a former ”la Caixa” Solà-Morales. Two of these meetings opportunity to 2,857 students, investing scholarship holder. took on a different format: the first with a total of just over 126 million euros. a talk and subsequent dinner together The second of the dialogues at the with the President and CEO of An exacting and competitive CaixaForum auditorium in Barcelona Telefónica R&D and Director of Product selection process brought together the director of the Innovation, David de Val, also a former IrsiCaixa Institute for AIDS Research, ”la Caixa” scholarship holder, and the Throughout 2014 the programme Dr. Bonaventura Clotet, and the collector second a chamber music concert by involved almost 200 lecturers and experts and patron Han Nefkens, who violinist and ”la Caixa” scholar Laura from universities and research centres all participated alongside ”la Caixa” scholars Gaya with pianist Isabel Fèlix. over the European Union. This body of Rosina Malagrida, head of the Public experts put together an independent Engagement in Health Research unit and The Association of ”la Caixa” Scholarship assessment of each scholarship director of Xplore Health at IrsiCaixa, Holders also produced a programme of application presented. and Martina Millà, head of programming activities for its members with guided and projects at the Joan Miró Foundation tours of exhibitions, activities and One of the key aspects of the programme in Barcelona. concerts at the Foundation’s centres, is its thorough process to select potential CaixaForum and CosmoCaixa, as well as scholarship holders, which takes the form Talks on a smaller scale but following the other events such as a guided tour of the of a competition. These independent same arrangement of guest speaker and Sagrada Familia. assessments of curriculums and research scholarship holder were also organised by proposals, known as peer review the Association of Scholarship Holders. assessments, screen candidates by Taking part in this series of talks were the checking their aptitudes, knowledge journalist Antoni Basses, the scholarship and training. The assessments are made holder and also journalist Eva 1 10 following protocols set by the European Domínguez, Professor of Economics Review Guide promoted by the European Germà Bel, the General Secretary of the Science Foundation. Club for Excellence For the Association of ”la Caixa” Scholarship Holders (www.becarioslacaixa.net), 2014 was a year of consolidating its programme of activities. This group of people who have received scholarships has formed a “club for excellence” to promote cultural, leisure and informative activities of varying types, as well as other activities aimed at disseminating and promotion more specialised subjects related to the members’ own area of expertise or resulting from their professional or academic links. One of the activities which draw huge interest is the series of talks entitled Horizons: Talks and Lectures and, in 2014, a creativity and innovation event was launched. The gathering brought together the chef Ferran Adrià and the 37 Annual Report ”la Caixa” Banking Foundation 2014 eduCaixa resources with the highest number of users, totalling 199,992 in 2014. eduCaixa In 2014, eduCaixa experienced new 2,014,289 growth in terms of the number of Outside of the classroom the subject visitors and beneficiaries using the matter completed an educational package resources, projects and activities that could be enjoyed independently on offer, both in and outside the or led by a tutor. Both types of format classroom. The consolidation of the entail attendance of events held at the portal as a prescriber of didactic CaixaForum Centres, with 188,008 school 7,755 material for all stages of education, beneficiaries and CosmoCaixa with Total number of beneficiaries Total number of schools both online and face-to-face, led to 162,242 beneficiaries. This offer also in 2014 benefitting in 2014 a total of 2,014,289 beneficiaries. included school concerts, shows, visits to other venues and travelling exhibitions, The eduCaixa portal saw an increase of with 112,000 students; the programme States, Chile and Guatemala. With this nearly 38% in its number of beneficiaries, The Art of Educating, with 65,496 approach, eduCaixa has become a which totalled 652,563 in 2014. Among beneficiaries and summer camps. During learning tool with international reach them were users of online resources 2014 this educational package was that has broken down frontiers. concerning projects such as The sea in followed by 1,361,726 students, 12.42% depth, CaixaEscena, Romanorum Vita, more than in 2013. Enterprise Challenge Award Let’s talk about drugs, Xplore Health and IrsiCaixa-Dissemination, with a total of As a result of all this, in 2014 eduCaixa In 2014, the Young Entrepreneurs 228,004 beneficiaries. The remaining had a total of 2,014,289 beneficiaries programme went a step further with its 424,559 used other resources available and 7,755 student centres used both the proposal, associated with kitCaixa Young through the website. physical and online resources as part of Entrepreneurs, with a call for applications their educational activities, an increase of for the Enterprise Challenge Award. 2500000 120 The proposals used within the classroom 17.7% in centres using the resources In this first call for applications, five teams 2000000 100 correspond entirely to the range of compared to the previous year. It should of students were selected out of more 1500000 material online which teachers can be80pointed out that, of the total number than 1,000 teams from the 363 schools programme as part of the curriculum of60users, 371,161 visited the portal online that, throughout the academic year, 1000000 content for different subjects and levels, from 40 abroad, mainly from countries in had worked with the kitCaixa Young 500000 as well as the kits for use in the classroom, Latin 20 America. Among the countries with Entrepreneurs at the centres. 0 such as kitCaixa Values, LaboCosmoCaixa, the highest number of online visitors 0 kitCaixa A small glance at our world and recorded are Mexico, Columbia, Ecuador, In July, the five teams chosen travelled Mobile Planet, one of the face-to-face Peru, Venezuela, Argentina, the United to Silicon Valley (San Francisco, United States). This was an educational trip designed to get to know some of the pioneering companies in innovation, entrepreneurism and technological development, as well as an opportunity to meet entrepreneurs and visit educational institutions such as Berkley and Stanford, aspects which the students had worked on in carrying out their respective projects. The award was for overcoming a challenge posed to each of the five winners by partners linked to the prize. The partners were the Everis Foundation, SegurCaixa Adeslas, Eurest, Príncep de Girona Foundation and Mediapro. The teachers accompanying the students also received a sixth challenge, posed by the Foundation. All these challenges were Annual Report ”la Caixa” Banking Foundation 2014 38 Supporting progress related to resolving requirements related to business trends and aspects regarding society, technology and education, issues which are of particular interest to the partners proposing the challenges. Projects fostering proposals related to innovative, solidarity and sustainable products and services, aimed at resolving the proposed needs, were prepared and presented during the visit. A wide range of diverse projects were submitted, such as an aquaculture farm connected with agricultural production at the greenhouses in Almeria. An smart plug which allows you to save energy, an application for smartphones for co-ordinating groups of volunteers, shoes with lights to aid safe movement around the home at night and a bicycle dynamo based on the values shared by the two social, 59 related to international to charge mobiles. foundations, takes the form of different cooperation and finally 52 on financial pedagogical proposals. For five years and entrepreneurial education. It should The Young Entrepreneurs programme these activities have contributed to be noted that the social resources aimed to promote the students’ skills reinforcing a universe of values in associated with social-emotional learning and abilities in terms of initiative and children and young adults, from sporting and work are presented as a unified entrepreneurial potential, focusing on activities, play and active participation resource, as is the material related to educational awareness in areas such as in learning processes, as well as serving financial and entrepreneurial education, creativity, financial education and the community and developing healthy developed specifically by the Foundation’s processes linked to the creation and eating habits. All these methodologies Commercial and Educational Action formation of projects and ideas related have the same goals and formats as the division. to business, products and services. The educational programmes also promoted programme specifically and directly by the Foundation via the kitCaixa The range of subject matter is varied emphasises financial education to Values (Identity, Living in Harmony, and covers almost the all the activities encourage a greater presence of these Responsibility, Healthy Habits, Young carried out through the Foundation’s specific educational subjects in the Entrepreneurs, Economy, A Small Glance programmes, whether exhibitions or teaching curriculum. at the World, Let´s talk about drugs and the centre’s permanent installations or Gender Violence Prevention). material generated through the activities kitCaixa Healthy Habits, designed to carried out in the form of cycles of talks, teach preventative behaviours in matters Up-to-date educational services workshops, etc. One such example of nutrition, sport and future illnesses, and products is the material provided to work on was substantially expanded and increased literature by classic authors, based on in 2014. A total of 150,779 children High user traffic means ensuring that the cycles of talks held at the CaixaForum enjoyed the kit’s proposed activities, eduCaixa portal remains up-to-date as centres. In this way the resources are based on the Comprehensive Health well as having a broad-ranging volume of optimised, restarting a new itinerary in programme of the SHE Foundation material able to attract and foster loyalty the form of open, pedagogical proposals (Science, Health and Education), directed among the users from the educational that offer both a service to the by cardiologist Valentí Fuster. community, at whom it’s aimed. The educational centres as well as being aforementioned content is updated useful to adults. The Foundation and the Barcelona on a monthly basis and subsequently Football Club Foundation collaborate published following a predetermined in different projects such as Barçakids, schedule. At the close of 2014, the FutbolNet, We are what we eat and portal’s material contained 642 proposals Young Volunteers to encourage values to work on in the classroom, including 1 3 5 6 in the young. This particular line of work, 256 science activities, 173 cultural, 102 39 Annual Report ”la Caixa” Banking Foundation 2014 Research Institute of Governance and Public Policies; and a pioneering application in Research The Foundation’s research Europe which allows children and young €113 million programmes actively promote people to report potentially harmful agreements with centres of audiovisual material transmitted by excellence to boost top level research the media, designed by researchers in the life, social and health sciences at the UAB. as well as humanities. Pioneering €19 million international research has become Young RecerCaixa researchers a reality in such fields as oncology, Investment Cumulative investment AIDS and cardiovascular disease. Also in 2014, the second edition of the in 2014 since 1993 Investiga programme was implemented In 2014 the Foundation allocated with RecerCaixa, inviting 650 students 19 million euros towards research from 5th and 6th year primary to learn IrsiCaixa programmes, a cumulative investment how to study alongside the researchers of 113 million euros since 1993, the year guiding the projects funded by the The Foundation supported AIDS research when the ”la Caixa” AIDS research programme. Pupils learned how apply more than ever in 2014 with an injection institute was set up; IrsiCaixa. Since then scientific techniques while being of 1.9 million euros. The ”la Caixa” AIDS the Foundation has supported top level supported by the scientists’ expertise. research institute, IrsiCaixa, under the scientific research focusing on areas with direction of Dr. Bonaventura Clotet, the greatest social impact and need. Responsible innovation and research reached several new milestones in its Among the priority lines in biomedical research. research is investigation into AIDS, cancer, In the areas of science and environment, cardiovascular disease, the ageing process the Foundation led the RRI Tools Dr Bonaventure Clotet has directed and degenerative diseases such as programme, a Europe-wide project an international research committee Alzheimer’s, multiple sclerosis and foetal to implement a new culture towards attempting to reproduce the only pathologies. socially-responsible research and documented case of someone recovering innovation, aimed at encouraging a new from HIV so far. This is the so-called RecerCaixa ethos in which research projects are “Berlin patient”, a man who was treated carried out in line with the values, needs in 2007 for leukaemia using stem cells 2014 saw the forth call for applications and expectations of today’s society. This from a donor with a natural resistance to of the RecerCaixa programme, offering commitment has brought about a new the virus. Doctors and researchers from grants to a total of 26 research projects approach to research that entails all over 150 the world have tried to treat chosen from 362 applications. Since contributions from several different areas other patients under similar conditions 120 2010 RecerCaixa has given support to such as education, institutions and but without success. 94 top level research projects from both society, in order to coordinate first class 90 public and private universities and research and ensure it remains open, The 60centre has also consolidated its research centres. Of the projects selected, accessible and fair. position as leader in research associated 30 21 are related to social sciences and humanities and the remaining five to 0 public health. Some of the research findings published in 2014 were as follows: the investigation carried out by the Autonomous Universidad of Barcelona (UAB) and CEDRICAT Foundation on the emerging phenomenon of social agriculture and its contribution to the economy and to the occupational integration of people at risk of marginalisation; the results of the first study to analyse, in-depth, the effects of the economic crisis on different neighbourhoods, led by the UAB’s Annual Report ”la Caixa” Banking Foundation 2014 40 Supporting progress with the development of HIV resistance In 2014 the Foundation promoted five restricted to relatives of patients aged in patients infected with the virus. The projects by the Institute of Photonic between 45 and 65. In 2014 the Foundation results of this research were published Sciences (ICFO), the Institute for allocated 1.5 million euros to this project. in the Clinical Infectious Diseases journal Bioengineering of Catalonia (IBEC), the and work is also underway to include Institute for Research into Biomedicine Other research these tests in routine diagnostics in (IRB), the Centre for Genomic Regulation hospitals. (CRG) and the Institute of Chemical Throughout 2014 the Cardiovascular Research of Catalonia (ICIQ), totalling Genetics programme at the Girona As regards therapeutic research, a study 200,000 euros each one. Biomedical Research Institute presented was also published in the AIDS journal the findings from its study into sudden identifying the most aggressive strains The Institute for Bioengineering of Catalonia death in Catalonia (MOSCAT). This of HIV associated with the rapid spread (IBEC) published results of its research work research, which investigated 400 of the disease. Finding the keys to fast in Nature Materials about key mechanisms individuals who had suffered sudden identification is fundamental for early responsible for the spread of breast cancer. cardiac death, revealed that hereditary diagnosis. As far as an HIV vaccine is In 2014 Barcelona was also chosen as genetic diseases play a major role in concerned, tests on animals of the new headquarters for the European Genomealtering the heart’s electric activity and design are continuing and there is Phenome Archive (EGA) thanks to the proposes specific treatments. Other collaboration with a clinical trial to test project directed by the Centre for Genomic centres involved in cardiovascular research efficacy as a therapeutic vaccine of a Regulation (CRG). This database collects that are supported by the Foundation are potential preventative vaccine designed information from more than 1,000 scientific the National Centre of Cardiovascular by the University of Oxford. studies on diseases such as cancer, diabetes, Research and the Spanish Society of autoimmune and cardiovascular illness and Cardiovascular Thoracic Surgery. Cancer neurological disorders and will serve as an unprecedented platform for scientists in the The WIDER centre for research into clinical In 2014, 1.7 million euros were allocated field of personalised medicine. and experimental digestive endoscopy to cancer research centres such as the is an international benchmark for Hospital Vall d'Hebron Institute of Alzheimer’s introducing pioneering techniques such Oncology (VHIO), the Memorial Sloan as endoscopic sphincterotomy. In 2014 Kettering Cancer Center, the Josep The Alfa study carried out by the Pasqual this leading centre received 800,000 euros Carreres Foundation and the Hospital Maragall Foundation and the Foundation towards its research. Germans Trias i Pujol. This is regarded as for the early detection and prevention high priority research given that cancer of Alzheimer’s began in 2013 under Other research projects on foetal has the second highest death rate the direction of Dr. Jordi Camí, using pathologies, infant diabetes, neurosurgery globally and the highest among people cognitive assessments and DNA analyses and multiple sclerosis have also received aged 35 to 70. from 2,500 people selected to take part. grants. The study grew in 2014 with the The work carried out by the Cancer expansion of the sample by 300 new Molecular Therapy Research Unit (UITM) patients, made up of healthy participants at the Vall d’Hebron Institute of Oncology aged between 60 and 75 who are children has assisted 1,400 patients since 2008, of people affected by the disease. Until mainly suffering from colon and breast now the sample under study has been 8 cancer, by enrolling them in 303 clinical trials involving new drugs. These treatments entail 19,000 hospital visits and 27,000 outpatient visits each year. Transferring technology It’s of utmost importance for the Foundation’s Research programmes for the findings of research and innovation to be fast-tracked into the public domain and onto the market, in the form of new drugs, therapies and appliances. 41 Annual Report ”la Caixa” Banking Foundation 2014 The environment the first eco-innovation laboratory to analyse these entrepreneurial experiences The environment The Foundation’s environmental associated with the application of 987 programmes and initiatives are sustainable solutions and technologies geared towards promoting that improve people’s wellbeing. instruments that ensure sustainable human development, whether it be The laboratory was set up as a pilot to 219 contributing to the conservation of encourage companies to apply innovation natural areas, the development of as a means of creating, producing and environmental companies creating offering solutions that bring about Projects in 2014 Jobs provided to regenerate in 2014 new jobs or by supporting climate savings in production and consumption natural areas research as fundamental to tackling processes and increases in efficiency and the effects of mankind on our durability, thereby reducing the impact surroundings. In 2014 two new of products and raw materials on the these eco-innovation criteria to identify initiatives were added to the environment. what competitive improvements were Foundation’s environmental projects: achieved. These studies led to the the first experimental laboratory on The aim was to increase competitiveness publication of 22 successful case eco-innovation and Medclic, an among businesses, both with regard to studies, some of which were publicised initiative to measure climate production costs as well as savings throughout a series of four seminars parameters in the Mediterranean. generated by synergies and collaboration and several workshops dealing with the between companies in developing different features identified: processes, The combination of technology, creativity innovative technologies. In other words, product lifecycle, services and tools and and sustainability is creating a whole to make innovation the norm in eco-innovation indicators. new scenario with opportunities to grow companies, incorporating this laboratory for businesses that provide more in their developments and strategies via The result of all of this work has been environmentally-friendly solutions, collaboration, co-creation and the sharing summarised in an eco-innovation guide products and services as well as companies of knowledge between firms. so that companies can “eco-innovate”, that directly deal with issues associated entitled, Ecoinnovar es fácil, aprende cómo 1000 with environmental preservation. In 2014 Throughout 2014 the laboratory carried y gana competitividad [Eco-innovating is the ”la Caixa” Foundation and the out practical case studies on both easy, learn 800 how and become competitive]. Environmental Forum Foundation set up domestic and foreign companies applying More information 600 and resources can be found on the laboratory’s website: 400 www.labarotorioecoinnovacion.com 200 Ocean variability 0 studies In recent years, the rollout of the ClimaDat project has set up one of world’s pioneering networks to measure parameters of the effects of climate change. This network operates via eight monitoring stations located in different areas such as nature parks and biosphere reserves, representative of the different models and types of climate present on the peninsula, creating a concentrated mosaic of climate models that, thanks to their diversity, can provide a large amount of relevant data regarding how the climate is evolving. The network has begun to gather data which, in the future, will form the basis Annual Report ”la Caixa” Banking Foundation 2014 42 Supporting progress of an investigation and study into climate via its website, by holding cycles of each area, administration or organisation behaviour. That’s why the Science area informative talks, audiovisual and managing the location in question. took a step forward and, in 2014, shifted multimedia material, for example a video They are mostly projects related to its focus towards the study of our oceans. on the phenomenon of undercurrents, as preventing forest fires, clearing woods Consequently, the Foundation and the well as producing educational proposals. and undergrowth in areas that are Coastal Ocean Observing and Forecasting particularly vulnerable, as well as System of the Balearic Islands (ICTS Natural spaces adapting forestry walkways and SOCIB) signed an agreement to carry routes for new “greener” routes and out the project entitled “Medclic: the In 2014 the Natural Space and Social maintaining existing pathways, creating Mediterranean, just a click away”. Reinsertion programme implemented 219 routes designed for people with new projects aimed at the conservation, disabilities, improving their accessibility Under this agreement studies will be maintenance and restoration of natural to the natural environment. Other carried out on the behaviour of the areas, at the same time as offering job projects focus on the preservation and currents in the Mediterranean Sea and opportunities to 987 people with conservation of endangered species or their climatic impact and influence on difficulties in finding work or at risk of recovering crops and intensive farming, ecosystems. This will be done via marginalisation. Throughout the last helping to rebalance the environment technology for real-time monitoring and 9 years this programme has proven that y improving the management of woods measuring of the sea. As in the case of the environment-related job market is and biomass, as well as the preservation the ClimaDat project, the information will becoming an emerging source of and conservation of the countryside also be available in the public domain for employment. and types of vegetation susceptible to climate researchers and the population in deterioration as a result of the effects general. Since the start of this programme in of human presence, such as riverside 2005, 3,430 projects throughout Spain woods, marshlands and sand dunes. Ocean variability studies allow us to have generated employment for determine how such things as the effect 12,259 people with the involvement of of the climate, global warming and government bodies at a local, provincial the rise in temperatures influence sea and autonomous community level. currents. It also demonstrates how this affects the intensity and chemical This programme covers a wide range of activities, adapted to the needs of 6 7 8 9 composition of marine flows (such as salinity, concentration of oxygen, suspended nutrients and isotopes), all of which end up having an effect on factors such as the strength and behaviour of the sea currents and winds, generating what is equivalent to atmospheric weather but in the oceans. Medclic will implement these measures on a small scale and the behaviour of the Mediterranean Sea is perfect for observing the effects of climate change on aspects such as erosion, the loss of beaches and alterations in marine habits and ecosystems. Nevertheless, the project is keen to be accessible to the general population and this multi-platform observing and forecasting system on the behaviour of the sea will therefore provide freely accessible data for the public and scientific community. This will be available 43 Annual Report ”la Caixa” Banking Foundation 2014 Supporting progress Palau Macaya the Club of Rome which also has its Finally, in the area of thought, the cycle of Barcelona offices at the centre. dialogues organised in collaboration with 2014 was a year of consolidation for Ateneo Barcelonés and entitled “Futures” the Palau Macaya as a centre for Of note in the area of sustainability was helped to reflect, throughout seven debate and practical reflection on the cycle Reflections. Growing without sessions, on the challenges and problems social concerns with particular consuming led by Ramon Folch, as well as faced by humanity in decades to come. emphasis and attention on trends the five sessions programmed by the Club and predictions regarding issues of of Rome on energy efficiency and quality 2014 also saw the 2nd Congress on global interest and importance. This of life, the biosphere and human Building Peace in the 21st Century and consolidation can be seen in the development. the cycle of dialogues organised by the increase in the number of activities Catalan Sociology Association entitled programmed, up by 48% on the Regarding the area of human Understanding today’s society. previous year. development and social sustainability, the cycle of RecerCaixa dialogues encouraged The programming offered in 2014 struck Over the year the Palau Macaya achieved the discussion of issues such as young a balance between activities organised its cruising speed with an extensive people and the job market and strategies by the centre itself or by the ”la Caixa” programme of events whose common for finding employment, managing Banking Foundation together with other denominator has been debate, reflection interculturality as an emerging need organisations and those activities carried out and the encouragement of critical to improve social cohesion, the by renting the Palau as a venue. Out of the thought regarding issues of relevance to consequences of the progressive ageing 483 sessions and activities held in 2014, 293 society. of the population, the loss of quality of were organised by the Palau and 319 were life in cities, the impact of the economic possible as a result of renting out its rooms. The Palau Macaya has also welcomed crisis and instruments to combat the international figures of prestige as both break-up of society and marginalisation. The Palau Macaya also serves as a tourist speakers and participants in its debates attraction. 25,438 visitors came to the and discussions. To name just a few of The cycle Reflections. Poverty through a Palau in 2014 to admire this emblematic its outstanding visitors in 2014 there child’s eyes, directed by Jaume Funes, building designed by Josep Puig i was the Archbishop of Johannesburg consisted of different seminars with the Cadafalch. For this reason, in June the and winner of the Nobel Peace Prize aim of building a new discourse on Palau opened an exhibition space, Desmond Tutu, as well as the Economics poverty and inequality, also formulating “Modernisme and decorative arts. The Nobel Prize-winner Reinhard Selten; proposals for sustainable initiatives. history of the Palau Macaya”. This is doctor and researcher Manel Esteller; located on the ground floor of the political and social scientist Sami Naïr, Also of note in this area were dialogues building, close to the inner patio, and is and advisor to the International Monetary on new forms of philanthropy and social freely accessible, providing tables with Fund, Paul Collier. transformation, bringing together different audiovisual materials. sociologists, economists and specialists in The different activities carried out can the third sector. Lastly, the international be grouped into four broad areas of seminar “Labour market and human human development and sustainability: capital”, with the participation of the EU economics, environment, social aspects commissioner László Andor, was another 8 9 and aspects related to thought. notable meeting. As part of the first of these areas, regarding reflections on the role of economics, of note was the dialogue on ethics applied to companies and the workshop of the ”la Caixa” Chair in Economics and Society, entitled Economic policies of development and conflict, as well as the official inauguration ceremony for academics joining the Royal Academy of Economic and Financial Sciences, this being one of the Palau Macaya’s permanent collaborations, along with Annual Report ”la Caixa” Banking Foundation 2014 44 Bringing culture and science to the public 46 Introduction 49 Great alliances Exhibitions 50 CaixaForum 52 Barcelona CaixaForum Madrid 54 56 CaixaForum Zaragoza 57 Other CaixaForum centres 60 CosmoCaixa Barcelona 62 Science in Society 64 Music Introduction Thanks to this constant evolution, the most important announcements of CosmoCaixa continues to grow and 2014. In a little over six months, this new For over a century, the Foundation’s surprise in the integration and venue, designed by the Catalan architect programmes have been attentive presentation of its content. Carme Pinós, has become the nerve to the needs of people. Since the centre of cultural activity in Zaragoza, beginning ”la Caixa” has been For example, in 2014 a new permanent both in terms of visitors and the quality especially concerned with space was added to the centre: the of its cultural actions, as well as in the promoting and improving the module of the Juan Carlos I Antarctic use made of the space by the city’s spread of knowledge, culture and Base, ceded by the CSIC (Spanish organisations and institutions which have education; a willingness which has National Research Council). In the area carried out all types of activities in its crystallised in the form of its centres of temporary exhibitions, the different rooms and areas. This has made (CaixaForum and CosmoCaixa), Mediterranean. Our sea display has the CaixaForum an important cultural activity programmes, travelling been a prime example of how shared asset for Zaragoza and it has become a exhibitions and collaborations with cultural proposals can be produced. great catalyst and transmitter of cultural planetariums and online educational This exhibition complemented the life in the city. This claim is backed by the platforms. These tools are designed Mediterranean. From myth to reason over 258,000 visitors and users welcomed to offer activities of all types to exhibition at CaixaForum Barcelona, by CaixaForum Zaragoza in its first six audiences of all kinds. Bringing presenting the Mediterranean as the months of activity. science and culture closer to the cradle of civilisations by exhibiting largest possible number of people elements from Greek and Latin culture. The ”la Caixa” Contemporary Art has consolidated itself as a priority Collection was the protagonist of the first for the Foundation, contributing to New CaixaForum Zaragoza exhibition in CaixaForum Zaragoza. The personal growth and social progress two inaugural exhibitions, Sensitive through the spread of knowledge. The inauguration of the new CaixaForum planes and Narratives in image brought In 2014 there were two significant Zaragoza centre in June 2014 was one of leading names in national and events: the celebration of the tenth anniversary of CosmoCaixa Barcelona and the inauguration of the new CaixaForum Zaragoza. In 2014 CosmoCaixa Barcelona celebrated a decade devoted to the mission of spreading scientific knowledge throughout society. This has been an intense decade during which 29 temporary exhibitions were organised and more than 2,100 activities were carried out, such as workshops, congresses, conferences, courses, shows, etc. The success of the centre, a legacy of the previous Science Museum, has been endorsed by the more than seven million visitors it has welcomed over these ten years. CosmoCaixa has become an essential benchmark in Barcelona’s world of culture and knowledge. This has been possible thanks to the continuous and constant rethinking and reformulation of the methods used to exhibit and offer content, both for permanent and temporary displays. That is why CosmoCaixa has become a meeting point for citizens and scientific knowledge. Annual Report ”la Caixa” Banking Foundation 2014 46 Bringing culture and science to the public international contemporary art to the cultural work. A clear example of this can project RRI Tools, led by ”la Caixa” Aragonese audience. be seen in the works we have borrowed Banking Foundation and which, in 2014, from 120 international museums in 67 created a network comprising more than In 2014 the CaixaForum centres cities all over the world, which have 400 institutions from 30 European registered over 2.4 million visitors who enhanced the exhibitions produced countries. The network is up and running enjoyed top-class exhibitions and an throughout 2014. Works have also been and, in its first year of activity, organised activities programme open to all lent from the Contemporary Art 27 meetings in 22 countries with audiences. The CaixaForum centres are Collection to different international strategies to ensure the scientific the prime example of our aim to provide institutions including the Kunstmuseum knowledge generated by these European places where users and visitors can share in Bonn, the Lenbachhaus in Munich, the research and development centres has a experiences and interact with the Stedelijk Museum in Amsterdam, and the real and more effective impact on society. displays. The exhibitions that stood out Museo d’Arte Contemporanea The RRI Tools programme will last for most in terms of visitor numbers in 2014 Donnaregina (MADRE) in Naples. three years and is supported by the were those dedicated to Sebastião European Commission, which will Salgado, Sorolla, Le Corbusier, the Scientific alliances contribute 6.9 million euros in funding. exhibition on the animation film studio The programme promotes a key concept Pixar, and a long etc., totalling 51 These collaborations also extend to for the European research system, namely exhibitions in all. The success of some has the Science and Research programmes socially responsible research and led to their inclusion in the travelling that prioritise the spread of scientific innovation. exhibitions to provide access to an even knowledge and the promotion of a greater audience. constructive dialogue between research, In 2014, at a national level, the sum of innovation and society, as well helping the Foundation’s work with different Collaborations, stronger together to encourage young people to study organisations and institutions resulted in science-related disciplines. Alliances are collaboration and activity agreements Strategic alliances with large museums also established at an international level with the planetariums in Pamplona and and cultural institutions have continued such as those from the project RRI Tools, Madrid as well as an agreement with the to result in productions of a high but also at a national level to spread this Spanish Foundation for Science and standard, such as the exhibition by Roni knowledge beyond the Foundation’s Technology (FECYT) to assign the building Horn, Joan Miró award-winner, and the centres. of the Science Museum with the aim of display Captive Beauty, with small format turning it into the site for the new masterpieces from the Prado Museum’s At an international level, the catalyst for National Museum of Science and collection. The Culture area’s aim is to these collaborations is the European Technology in Alcobendas (Madrid). encourage collaboration to produce exhibitions together with national and international museums. This is a formula that has raised the quality of the content displayed and increased our capacity to carry out more ambitious productions. Other exhibitions were dedicated to El Greco, together with the Francisco Godia Foundation, the MNAC (National Museum of Art of Catalonia), and the Cau Ferrat Museum in Sitges, and to Sorolla, together with the Sorolla Museum Foundation in Madrid. It is worth highlighting that, as well as collaborations with national museums, the Foundation also maintains links and carries out specific actions with global benchmark institutions like the MoMa in New York, relationships that are reciprocal and contribute to the internationalisation of the Foundation’s 47 Annual Report ”la Caixa” Banking Foundation 2014 International recognition Girona, was chosen as an example of collaborations and by searching for good practice and is currently shown at mutual understanding in organising With regard to awards and recognition, the Philanthropy House of the European events, the CaixaEscena programme has the Cooperative Wineries programme Foundation Centre in Brussels. created the first camp for youth drama received one of the six prizes for Cultural groups together with another Italian Heritage from the EU and the cultural Exporting participative concerts group. This exchange was possible thanks movement Europa Nostra in Vienna to the framework agreement between (Austria) in 2014. The project for the The formula for organising and planning the Foundation and the Fondazione recovery and preservation of ‘wine the ”la Caixa” Banking Foundation’s Cariplo. cathedrals’ (Catalonia’s moderniste participative concerts has set a precedent cooperative wineries) was chosen from and the model has been exported to CaixaEscena is an educational project among 160 candidates as a prime Portugal where the Fundação Calouste with the aim of strengthening and example of public-private partnership. Gulbenkian has organised its first stimulating creativity, knowledge and participative concert; in this case the personal development through the Mapping Taüll 1123, which allows us piece selected was not Messiah but practice of performing arts. To achieve visualise how the paintings in Sant Carmina Burana by Carl Orff. this it promotes workshops, talks and Climent de Taüll church were created and gatherings with professionals to help which was presented as part of the Open With regard to 2014’s participative participants develop their drama projects. Romanesque programme, was considered concerts, basically two programmes were the best audiovisual project in the world included, the now traditional Messiah by Extending our reach at the 18th Museums and the Web Handel and The participative musical, congress held in Baltimore (USA) in the with a repertoire of emblematic pieces Beyond the task of diffusion and category of multimedia projects. This from this genre. In total 17 concerts were dissemination already carried out at the project was also awarded the Laus d’Or programmed in 14 cities throughout Foundation’s centres with the aim of for its contribution to the spread of Spain. spreading knowledge to all of society, cultural heritage. several platforms or temporary exhibitions Along the same lines, and in accordance are also offered. In 2014 these exhibitions Finally, the documentary Migranland, part with the strategy to gradually improve received more than one and a half million of the community theatre productions the internationalisation of our cultural visitors with top-class content covering launched in the High Season festival in proposals through alliances and the areas of culture, science and social issues. These are projects with extensive coverage, some carried out with the help of new technologies and the internet such as Science City (in collaboration with the CSIC), which now reaches 32 municipalities in Spain, and the Xplore Health website (in collaboration with IrsiCaixa). Another platform for debate developed in 2014, aimed at building bridges between the scientific community and society. This platform is B-Debate and it has called upon more than 200 leading scientists to pool their thoughts and knowledge concerning issues such as genetic research, cancer, the limits and horizons of medicine, the challenges and opportunities offered by access to biomedical data and the effects of ageing on people’s quality of life, wellbeing and mental health, among other topics. Annual Report ”la Caixa” Banking Foundation 2014 48 Bringing culture and science to the public Great alliances and from the MACBA (Museum of has ever emerged from the Prado Museum Modern Art of Barcelona), the exhibition in small format. The exhibition included a The agreements established between The persistence of geometry was installed set of 135 masterpieces encompassing a ”la Caixa” Banking Foundation and at the Monterrey Arts Centre (Mexico). period stretching from the 2nd century AD leading cultural institutions allow for This is one more step in the to Joaquim Fortuny, via Goya, Velázquez, the creation of exhibitions that benefit internationalisation of the Foundation’s Titian, Rubens, etc. Moreover, the exhibition from the quality of the collections of cultural proposals and, with it, we expand Objects speak, also created as a result of museums such as the Louvre and the goal of bringing contemporary art the agreement, has continued in the form Prado. These collaborations extend to closer to society by promoting new of a travelling exhibition at the CaixaForum other institutions and museums around readings and interpretations of recent art centres in Girona, Lleida and Tarragona. the world such as the MoMA in New forms. At the same time we also help to York and the Fondation Le Corbusier, promote one of the most quantitatively Specific collaborations among others. and qualitatively important collections of contemporary art and one of the most With regard to specific collaborations During 2014, the last of the four alliances essential for understanding contemporary between the Foundation and other formed between the Foundation and creation from the second half of the 20th institutions that make the production of renowned cultural institutions led to an century up to the present day. displays and exhibitions possible, in 2014 exhibition by the winner of the fourth Joan we can highlight our collaboration with the Miró Award, Roni Horn. This was also the Collaboration improves quality Museum of Modern Art (MoMA) in New first solo exhibition of the artist’s work in York and the Fondation Le Corbusier in Barcelona. Roni Horn. Everything was Maintaining collaborative relationships Paris to present the exhibition Le Corbusier: sleeping as if the universe were a mistake with internationally prestigious cultural an atlas of modern landscapes, one of the could be seen in the rooms of the Miró institutions has allowed us to establish most complete exhibitions ever seen on the Foundation in Barcelona and at CaixaForum strategic alliances with the Louvre creativity of this architect, urban planner, Madrid. Sculptural installations, Museum, the Prado Museum and the designer, painter and photographer. photographs and drawings were included Museum of Modern Art of Barcelona in this display selected by Horn herself. (MACBA), thereby helping to enhance the Another example is the exhibition A shared Among the pieces, visitors could see her quality of the works exhibited. Specific history. Treasures from the Royal Palaces most recent installation, Untitled; a collaborations have also been established of Spain, presenting different views of the structure formed by ten glass cylinders in with other institutions such as the monarchy conveyed through 141 works green tones bathed in natural light. The aforementioned MoMa and the Spanish of art that once belonged to the Royal piece had only been displayed previously at National Heritage institution. Household and that are now considered the Hauser & Wirth gallery in New York. national heritage. The exhibition included In 2014, and by virtue of these alliances, pieces by Velázquez, Goya, El Greco, Internationalisation Barcelona received the second of the large Caravaggio, Titian and Tintoretto, among exhibitions programmed after extending others, and was shown in the temporary In 2014, and after the warm reception the collaboration agreement until 2015. exhibitions hall of the Calouste Gulbenkian received by the first large exhibition This was entitled Captive Beauty. Small Museum in Lisbon. The Foundation also outside Spain to share pieces from the treasures from the Prado Museum; an has collaboration agreements with the ”la Caixa” Contemporary Art Collection unprecedented selection of the best that Fundação Gulbenkian through its Social Entrepreneurship programme. Other institutional joint ventures include the collaboration that began in 2009 with the Culture department of the Catalan government, giving rise to the Open Romanesque programme to restore and improve monuments. In 2014 this programme presented the exhibition Romanesque times. Art, life, and conscience, a journey back to the 11th, 12th, and 13th centuries to immerse ourselves in the art, culture, and society of a thousand years ago. 49 Annual Report ”la Caixa” Banking Foundation 2014 Exhibitions and perception of the works from many different perspectives. The exhibition’s Exhibitions The great exhibitions of 2014 were curator, the poet, critic and museum 2,590,190 those dedicated to Sebastião director Enrique Juncosa, provides an Salgado, Pixar, Le Corbusier and interpretation from the viewpoint of 1,525,957 Sorolla. The success of some of them three concepts that form part of the in terms of visitors has led to them discourse of contemporary creators: being included in the programming Participation, Memory and Language. of the CaixaForum centres and also as The first of the exhibitions in this trilogy, travelling exhibitions. The ”la Caixa” Participation, presented at CaixaForum Visitors of travelling Visitors of CaixaForum Contemporary Art Collection has a selection of works that required the exhibitions exhibitions also been used to hold cycles of viewer to become involved. exhibitions that help to promote this important collection at the same time Art and commitment Architecture, photography as providing the opportunity to and cinema reinterpret its content. Thanks to its ability to provoke emotions, to stir consciences and, in short, to influence Regarding productions aimed at 2014 saw the completion of the cycle and leave a mark on people, artistic showing and putting into context to support emerging curators, Comisart, expression has always looked for new ways new disciplines via architecture, with the second and third of the to become a reflection, to act as a mirror cinematography and photography, the exhibitions planned. The first, Rumour... that shows us our reality and confronts exhibition dedicated to Le Corbusier Colonial stories in the ”la Caixa” us with ourselves and questions us as offered an exhaustive panorama of the Collection and the second, Contretemps. individuals. At the end of 2014 CaixaForum work by this architect and urban planner Rumour proposed an examination of Barcelona hosted one such example of art with 215 objects including models, five pieces in audiovisual format from confronting us directly with the exhibition paintings, plans and recreations of the Contemporary Art Collection. entitled Yet another exhibition. This was rooms with the original furniture. An Contretemps, the third of the Comisart made up of eight projects carried out by essential exhibition to understand 20th proposals, offered a new perspective artists with the help and intervention of century architecture and Le Corbusier’s on the use of time. socially fragile people and those at risk of influence on aspects such as the design marginalisation. These projects were chosen and improvement of social housing and Reinterpreting the Contemporary via the call for applications as part of the efficient architecture. Art Collection Art for social improvement programme. In autumn 2014 the Contemporary Art Collection was further promoted with the start of a cycle of three exhibitions proposing an asynchronic interpretation Annual Report ”la Caixa” Banking Foundation 2014 50 Bringing culture and science to the public The great photography exhibition in 2014 showed visitors the path followed by the project of social and collective organisation was Genesis, the latest work by Brazilian painter via nature and how he transfers carried out in the 17th century and in photographer Sebastião Salgado. This what he sees, with particular prominence opposition to the colonial abuse of the exhibition reflects the artist’s work over for the sea, to painting. A journey in local population, the Guarani Indians. eight years, focusing on showing the which the painter, in spite of claiming his natural world on a journey taking him to love for the “natural”, ends up focusing Travelling exhibitions Antarctica, Madagascar, Botswana, the more on matter and colour in his works Congo, Ruanda, Uganda, Alaska, United than on portraying a natural view of the ”la Caixa” Foundation organises States, Siberia and the Amazon jungle. landscape. exhibitions throughout Spain to help The result: 245 black and white images to raise awareness by offering artistic, portraying people and animals but Finally, in 2014 another relevant figure in scientific and social content. Some of the especially the land that seems to have the history of art was remembered in the most important travelling exhibitions in avoided the impact of civilisation and exhibition Greco. Rusiñol’s view, as part the cultural area were Romanorum Vita. which the photographer shows to us in of the acts to celebrate four hundred A history of Rome; Iberian tribes. Our all its glory and fragility. years since the death of El Greco. In 2015 civilisation before Rome; Hidden heroes. this exhibition will be held at the Genius inventions. Everyday objects; Cinema also benefitted from a great CaixaForum centres but was produced in Romanesque times. Art, life and production in 2014, namely Pixar. 25 2014 and could be seen for the first time conscience; Heads, by Luis Gordillo and years of animation, which took over from at the Francisco Godia Foundation in Henry Moore. Art in the Street and also the exhibition devoted to Georges Méliès. Barcelona. The exhibition had the added the exhibitions Sebastião Salgado. Genesis In this exhibition, one of the great US value of displaying pieces by El Greco and Sorolla. The colour of the sea which, studios that has revolutionised animated next to paintings by Santiago Rusiñol to after visiting the CaixaForum centres, have films laid bare its creative process through show and highlight the influence and also been held at other venues. the personalities, plots and stories told impact the painter from Crete had on and the worlds that must be created to moderniste painters and how his work With regard to exhibitions with content turn them into film. Visitors could see was interpreted and received by these related to science and the environment, the different stages in the process via artists. there is Neolithic. From nomads to settlers; material from Pixar’s productions, from Illusionism. Magic or science?; the Toy Story (1995) up to the present day. Looking at the past to understand ExpoCaixa TechnoRevolution; Once upon a the present time... speech!; The Arctic is breaking up Painting and The Forest. Much more than wood, Among the exhibitions dedicated to and in the social area, one of the Regarding the exhibitions of art and promoting and spreading culture and outstanding exhibitions is the ExpoCaixa painting, there were two important past civilisations, 2014 focused on the Let’s talk about drugs. productions in 2014. The first was an cradle of today’s western civilisation: exhibition of small format pieces from the the Mediterranean. The exhibition These exhibitions have followed a total of Prado Museum’s collection: a proposal Mediterranean. From myth to reason, 81 routes throughout the country and presenting 135 masterpieces of painting which also had a complementary were visited by more than one and a half from the museum’s collections comprising exhibition at CosmoCaixa, brought million people in 2014. pictures and sculptures. Captive beauty. together a selection of Greek and Latin Small treasures from the Prado Museum archaeological pieces, sculptures, reliefs, condensed art history from the 2nd ceramics, frescoes, mosaics and jewellery century AD to the 20th century via small in an attempt to explain how the format paintings that form part of the European spirit was formed, from myth 1 2 7 Museum’s collection but are not always and Homer’s epic tales to the evolution of appreciated as they should be when anthropocentric thought in which man placed next to larger works. takes over from gods and myths, placing them forever in the collective imaginary. The second large exhibition of pictures was dedicated to Joaquín Sorolla in a The second exhibition, Jesuit settlements production that brought together pieces in Paraguay, show the evangelistic from the Sorolla Museum Foundation and missions of the Jesuits in the region of others from private collections. The Río de la Plata, between Argentina, exhibition Sorolla. The colour of the sea Paraguay and Brazil, as an innovative 51 Annual Report ”la Caixa” Banking Foundation 2014 CaixaForum Barcelona Iconoclastic Gestures in the ”la Caixa” and MACBA Collections by Carlos Martín, Visitors CaixaForum Barcelona received Großiga m’pfa habla horem*. The 971,101 775,068 visitors in 2014. As with performing collection by Juan Canela and 775,068 previous years, the centre dedicated Alt-architecture. Strategies of constructive 686,151 three of its exhibitions to enhancing resistance by the team of Érika Goyarrola the awareness and understanding and Xurso Ínsua. These three projects of contemporary culture by will receive grants to produce three disseminating, reinterpreting and consecutive exhibitions at CaixaForum Exhibitions appraising its Contemporary Art Barcelona throughout 2015 and 2016. Collection. Sebastião Salgado 432,361 311,718 327,852 The first of such exhibitions was the initial show from the series Participation. With regard to promoting new artistic Own activities Memory. Language. ”la Caixa” disciplines and particularly audiovisual 2012 2013 2014 Contemporary Art Collection. The first, languages, photography and cinema, Participation, curated by the poet, the great photographic exhibition of biographer, critic and museum director 2014 was Sebastião Salgado. Genesis, Enrique Juncosa, was designed to help accurately capturing the aim of showing Corbusier. This exhibition arrived in visitors get to know the latest pieces the influence of image on contemporary Barcelona as a result of an agreement from the collection, their common sensibility by exhibiting the work of one with the New York Museum of Modern denominator being they all required of the greatest visual creators of the 20th Art and Le Corbusier Foundation in Paris. active participation in order to be fully century. The huge amount of work by Thanks to this collaboration, one of 1000000 appreciated. The authors represented in this Brazilian photographer provides a the 800000 most comprehensive exhibitions this particular exhibition were: Ana Laura journey through the beauty and majesty 600000 dedicated to Le Corbusier in the last 400000 Aláez, Apichatpong Weerasethakul, of nature on planet Earth. An exhibition quarter of a century was compiled. 200000 Dominique Gonzalez-Forster, Douglas that, although spectacular, was also a 0 Gordon, Olafur Eliasson and Susy Gómez. reminder of the fragility of the natural Le Corbusier. An atlas of modern backdrops photographed. A geographic landscapes offered visitors five different New Comisart selection which took viewers on a journey areas in which models, paintings, drawings, to the Galapagos Islands, the Antarctic, photographs and documents from Le The second and third exhibitions rounded Madagascar, Botswana, Colorado, Siberia Corbusier’s projects could be viewed. off the cycle Comisart: new views of and the Amazon jungle. the ”la Caixa” Collection, by affording The exhibitions held in 2014 concerning up and coming young curators training Another relevant exhibition in 2014 was ancient history were completed by the opportunities, as well as helping to the one dedicated to 20th-century one dedicated to Greek and Latin culture, reinterpret and disseminate some of the architecture through the works of Le Mediterranean. From myth to reason and 1000000 works from this important contemporary 800000 art collection. 600000 400000 Rumour...Colonial stories in the ”la Caixa” 200000 Collection and Contretemps were the 0 second and third exhibitions in this cycle that started in 2013. 500000 Exhibitions aside, the three projects 400000 chosen for Comisart’s second call for 300000 applications were announced. The main 200000 innovation in 2014 was the incorporation 100000 of the MACBA in the initiative, also 0 making the works from its collection available to young curators. The projects from the 40 presented at this second call for applications were: Heterodoxies, Annual Report ”la Caixa” Banking Foundation 2014 52 Bringing culture and science to the public and experiences developed in this area all over the world, as a way of applying these successful experiences to our respective settings by offering solutions, alternatives and options to professionals of the sector through the contribution of leading specialists and experts with a worldwide reputation. One particular highlight of 2014 was the participation of Alfred Pacquement, honorary general curator of Heritage and honorary director of the National Museum of Modern Art, Georges Pompidou Centre, as well as independent curator and cultural advisor. Pacquement shared his valuable experience in areas such as acquisitions, the exhibition on the Jesuit missions to Festival of Advanced Music and New gifts and donations from his time spent South America, Jesuit Settlements in Media Art Sónar, jointly organising the as head of the Pompidou Centre. Paraguay. As far as art exhibitions were “A l’escolta” event, which brought concerned, the year's most relevant were together international experts to reflect Also important was the participation of Pissarro, Sorolla. The colour of the sea on the art of sound and listening. As part gallery owner Michael Findlay, director and Captive beauty. Small treasures from of this seminar, the sound installation Last of Acquavella Galleries in New York the Prado Museum. Days, Requiem for Las Glòries by Edu and former director of Christie’s auction Comelles was on display, an experience house where he worked as head of DNit Cycle that gathered and transformed the old the Impressionism and Modern Art soundscape of the Las Glòries area in department and also as International 2014 saw the third season of the DNit Barcelona, currently being transformed Director of Art. Findlay spoke about the series, providing the opportunity to open and developed. Also on show was the art market as opposed to art collection, up the venue during the evening as a way first performance from the collaboration drawing on his huge and long experience of attracting a new public interested in between Seth Kim-Cohen and the as an art dealer. hearing some of the latest trends in the Basque artist Mattin, two creators and area of electronic music, in addition to musicians who have presented their coming into contact with some of the experimental productions at venues such groups and figures working in the area as the Tate Modern, the Denver Museum CaixaForum Barcelona of cultural production in its varying forms. of Contemporary Art and international Pissarro In 2014 DNit boasted the presence of art biennales. In the case of Mattin, his Rumour...Colonial stories internationally renowned bands from work is mainly based on the area of noise in the ”la Caixa” Collection the experimental music genre. Taking part and improvisation. Le Corbusier. An atlas of modern in the event's third year was producer landscapes Kassem Mosse, Forest Swords, Collectors, patronage and cultural Mediterranean. From myth to presentations of the latest albums by diffusion reason Dean Blunt and Planningtorock and, in Contretemps. Comisart: new views of the ”la Caixa” the creativity and cultural production area, Both CaixaForum Barcelona and Collection the involvement of poet Josep Pedrals and CaixaForum Madrid were the backdrop The Jesuit settlements in Paraguay the group DDt Efectos Especiales, whose for the “Art and Patronage Circle” Sorolla. The colour of the sea members were responsible for the makeup events, held with the purpose of Captive beauty. Small treasures and characterisation of the cast from reflecting and promoting debate on the from the Prado Museum Guillermo del Toro’s film Pan’s Labyrinth, future of art, encouraging artistic activity Three narratives. Participation. for which he received an Oscar in 2007. and its relation to private collecting and Memory. Language cultural dissemination. The programme, Sebastião Salgado. Genesis Sónar backed by the Fundación Arte y Yet another exhibition Mecenazgo , aimed to create a means for Inventions, ideas that change lives In 2014 CaixaForum Barcelona once debate and discussion, encouraging the The most important thing again collaborated with the International circulation of ideas, initiatives, projects 53 Annual Report ”la Caixa” Banking Foundation 2014 CaixaForum Madrid in natural light, a visually shifting Rings of Lispector (Agua Viva), which work depending on the effect of the combines literary quotations with CaixaForum Madrid recorded light and environmental conditions, drawings. Within this proposal, with 768,082 visitors in 2014. One of the aimed at further enhancing the pieces specifically chosen for the exhibitions on show and bringing observational enjoyment of the exhibition areas at the Miró Foundation the year to a close was that of Roni piece with added sensory aspects and CaixaForum Madrid, Roni Horn Horn, an artist who was awarded of colour, weight, lightness, solidity brings together all the different elements the Joan Miró Prize. In addition to and fluidity. that are involved in the process. the cash prize which went to this contemporary artist in the fourth The exhibition was entitled Roni Horn. During 2014 the fifth Joan Miró award year of this award, she also received Everything was sleeping as if the universe was also presented, given to Ignasi an invitation to produce an were a mistake. A project that the artist Aballí. The prize, worth 70,000 euros, exhibition of her recent work. herself had conceived as an exploration also provides the opportunity to put Horn brought her latest sculptural of the different expressive resources she together an exhibition about the artist. installation, Untitled, to Madrid, had used throughout the last 20 years of Previous winners were Olafur Eliasson, which had only been exhibited at her career. For this reason the exhibition Pipilotti Rist, Mona Hatoum and Roni the Hauser & Wirth Gallery in New included sculptures, series of Horn. This prize has become one of the York. The piece in question is an photographs and drawings of the most important in monetary terms in the installation made up of ten glass creative processes, as well as a piece world. The panel of judges stressed the cylinders with greenish hues bathed designed to be displayed on the floor: award winner’s “constant reflection on Annual Report ”la Caixa” Banking Foundation 2014 54 Bringing culture and science to the public Drawing Center, the ZKM in Karlsruhe the contribution made by gallery Visitors (Germany), the Venice Biennale in 2007 owners to the dissemination and and spaces and art galleries in Mexico, knowledge of art and the relevance of 903,922 763,856 768,082 Belgium, Brazil and China. collectors as the last chain in a cultural system. Art and patronage prizes In this respect, the Fundación Arte y The Fundación Arte y Mecenazgo Mecenazgo has carried out research Exhibitions presented its fourth consecutive awards into the art world. Accordingly, it in recognition of the work performed presented the second volume of its by artists, gallery owners and art guide entitled Cuadernos Arte y 154,758 160,398 collectors in the name of creativity and Mecenazgo, El coleccionismo del arte en 109,197 the promotion of art. Three women España. Una aproximación desde su Own activities were awarded prizes in 2014: the historia y su contexto. This study by 2012 2013 2014 creator Soledad Sevilla, gallery owner María Dolores Jiménez Blanco focuses Silvia Dauder and collector Pilar Citoler. its analysis on the little developed The awards were first introduced in tradition of private art collection in 2011 and are currently worth 90,000 Spain, explaining and highlighting the the boundaries of painting and euros. The presentation took place at historic factors which have played a representation, his attention to detail CaixaForum Madrid, during which the decisive role in creating this situation, regarding the important implications of prize-winners received a sculpture from the “Siglo de Oro” or Golden Age the smallest changes for resignification created by Miquel Barceló, designed of Spain to the present day. By means strategies, as well as his role as mentor especially for these events. of this study, the Fundación Arte y for younger artists”. Aballí has exhibited Mecenazgo offers elements of analysis at venues such as the Joan Miró One of the unique features of these and reflection on art collection in Spain, Foundation, MACBA, Reina Sofía prizes is that all aspects of the creative highlighting the shortcomings such National Museum Centre of Art, the process are taken into account and not as its almost non-existent regulation Serralves Museum in Oporto, the Ikon the production of the art object. Equally or its limited ability to tackle today’s Gallery in Birmingham, the New York important is the need to acknowledge challenges and requirements, an aspect which the foundation has focused on to encourage art collecting as one of the necessary sources of patronage. CaixaForum Madrid Japanism. Fascination for Japanese art Sebastião Selgado. Genesis Pixar. 25 years of animation Le Corbusier. An atlas of modern landscapes Mediterranean. From myth to reason Roni Horn. Everything was sleeping as if the universe were a mistake The Jesuit settlements in Paraguay 55 Annual Report ”la Caixa” Banking Foundation 2014 CaixaForum Zaragoza the evolution of trends and artists from the centre’s most significant features. It has 20th century up to the present day. a gross surface area of more than 7,000 In June 2014, the ”la Caixa” Banking square metres, of which 5,980 are used Foundation opened a new centre, Sensitive planes contrasted the work by the centre’s facilities. CaixaForum Zaragoza. This is the first created by two different generations purpose-built venue and number of contemporary artists: the post-war The building designed by the team at seven in the Foundation’s cultural generation and that of the 1980s. Carme Pinós has placed the CaixaForum and social centres. In just a short time Two hotbeds of creativity that exhibition areas into two large geometric after its inauguration, this new reinterpreted the concepts of reality, cubes that project over the ground floor of CaixaForum has become a benchmark representation and abstraction, including the building, producing overhangs and for culture in the capital of Aragon. pieces by Antoni Tàpies, Antonio Saura, spatial separations. This gives the building By the end of the year, the Pablo Palazuelo, Manuel Millares, Miquel an incredibly lightweight sensation as the exhibitions held at CaixaForum Barceló, Eduardo Chillida and José exhibition areas, measuring 760 and 438 Zaragoza had attracted 258,882 Manuel Broto. The second exhibition, square metres, are set at different levels visitors in just six months, once again Narratives in image, examined the use of above the plaza, setting up a dialogue endorsing how these venues act as photography, video and film both in the with the city. open, inclusive centres to help make production and physical features of works culture and knowledge more readily as well as in constructing discourse. The facility is completed with three further available to citizens, as well as multipurpose rooms and a family and becoming the means for personal The first purpose-built CaixaForum educational space. On the terrace, above growth. the exhibition areas, there is a cafeteria CaixaForum Zaragoza is the Foundation’s and restaurant with wonderful views of The new CaixaForum Zaragoza opened first purpose-built social and cultural the Expo 08 pavilions. The ground floor with two exhibitions, Sensitive planes and centre. The building was designed by the is spacious, holding the entrance lobby, Narratives in image, expressing its Carme Pinós architect studio, chosen in a bookstore-shop and an interior garden commitment to bring contemporary restricted tender held by the Foundation that also acts as access to the auditorium creation to the public, dedicating all the among six of the most prestigious studios with a capacity for 252 people. new building’s exhibition areas to display in the country. The building has a unique works from the ”la Caixa” Contemporary shape with the layout of its exhibition Pixar and Egyptian mummies Art Collection, one of the most complete areas and the generation of public space and important collections for understanding around them, creating a plaza, being the In 2014 the centre’s programming also contained two more exhibitions; the first dedicated to the Pixar animation factory. The second of the exhibitions, Egyptian mummies. The secret of eternal life, showed the complex rituals connected with death and the afterlife, as well as how the art of mummification evolved, perfected by the Egyptian culture over centuries. CaixaForum Zaragoza ”la Caixa” Collection. Contemporary Art. Narratives in image ”la Caixa” Collection. Contemporary Art. Sensitive planes Pixar. 25 years of animation Egyptian mummies. The secret of eternal life Cambodia. Land of hope Annual Report ”la Caixa” Banking Foundation 2014 56 Bringing culture and science to the public Other CaixaForum centres adding furniture and a representative sample of oriental drawings he collected CaixaForum Palma and which he was fascinated by. The legacy of Hermen AngladaCamarasa is always prominent in the The exhibition dedicated to Georges programming of CaixaForum Palma. Méliès was also a major attraction at In 2014 a new selection of pieces the Palma centre in 2014 with 57,190 were exhibited in the rooms of this visitors. Georges Méliès. The magic centre dedicated to the artist with of cinema showed this film pioneer’s the permanent collection, which contribution to special effects, the attracted over 24,000 throughout the cinematographic tricks used in his year, opening with the exhibition productions and also other facets of entitled En ca n’Anglada. ”la Caixa” this multi-talented man who was also a Anglada-Camarasa Collection. draughtsman, magician, theatre director, actor, decorator, cameraman, producer This exhibition contains a selection of and distributor of more than 500 films pieces from the ”la Caixa” Contemporary between 1896 and 1912. Art Collection, recreating the painter's studio and workplace where he created The most visited exhibition in 2014 was his pictures, via the painter's furniture, the one on the painter Joaquín Sorolla, CaixaForum Palma painting equipment such as easels and attracting an audience of 58,178 visitors. Egyptian mummies. The secret of palettes and a selection of objects and Sorolla. The colour of the sea exhibited eternal life creations that Anglada-Camarasa had a selection of paintings whose preferred Georges Méliès. The magic of collected and kept over the years. topic is the sea, emphasising how he cinema The exhibition, which was visited by represented the coastline and his use En ca n’Anglada. ”la Caixa” 24,159 people in 2014, contained around of colour. The exhibition contained more Anglada-Camarasa Collection twenty pieces including oils and drawings than 60 pictures, tablets, cartons and also Anglada Camarasa (permanent) by the artist evoking his time and personal objects that had belonged to Sorolla. The colour of the sea Energy. For a sustainable future experiences at the port of Pollença, the painter. 57 Annual Report ”la Caixa” Banking Foundation 2014 CaixaForum Girona The biggest attraction in 2014 at this figure who lived two thousand The exhibition organised together CaixaForum Girona was the exhibition years ago. with the Prado Museum, Objects talk, Egyptian mummies. The secret of eternal finished at the end of January with life. This attracted 76,701 visitors, The archaelogical objects in this a total of 28,554 visitors. This is yet providing the chance to see some of exhibition are the starting point to another of the exhibitions produced the most important Egyptian pieces discover a fascinating culture, Egyptian, thanks to the alliance between the conserved at the Rijksmuseum van which developed a series of complex Museum and ”la Caixa” Foundation Oudheden in Leiden, the National rituals related to life and death. Rituals to show citizens the wealth of Museum of Antiquities in the such as the idea of dying in order to heritage held by the Prado, in Netherlands. This museum has one of be reborn, which led the Egyptians exhibitions such as Goya. Lights and the best collections of Egyptology in the to create increasingly sophisticated shadows and Rubens, Brueghel, world and, for this exhibition, lent techniques and processes to conserve Lorrain. The Nordic landscape at the several very significant pieces, such as the bodies of their deceased but which Prado, which have been held at the sarcophagi of Amenhotep and both also served to explain how they lived various CaixaForum centres and other the mummy and sarcophagus of and what they believed. venues in cities such as Valencia, Ankhhor, thanks to which we now have Zaragoza, Seville and Palma. information on the life and customs of The last exhibition was dedicated to Georges Méliès and attracted over 14,000 visitors. CaixaForum Girona Objects talk. Collections from the Prado Museum Egyptian mummies. The secret of eternal life Georges Méliès. The magic of cinema Time of flowers CaixaForum Lleida This selection of 60 masterpieces The most visited exhibition at from the leading schools of painting: CaixaForum Lleida in 2014 was Spanish, Flemish, Italian and French, Objects talk. Collections from the provided a journey through the history Prado Museum, attracting a total of art from the 16th to the 19th of 22,199 visitors. This exhibition, century, highlighting the importance of produced by ”la Caixa” and the objects integrated within paintings and Prado Museum through the alliance how their presence followed a pictorial between the two institutions showed alphabet providing information on the a number of paintings by Goya, people represented around them, such Rubens, El Greco, Giordano Sorolla, as status and importance in society and Murillo, Zurbarán, Josep de Ribera the symbolism of religious iconography, and Jan Brueghel el Viejo, and was as well as their presence as objects of eminently didactic in its approach, value and collector’s pieces. presenting a multifarious view of the Prado Museum's extensive collection As part of the programme to renovate via objects represented by the the ”cathedrals of wine”, the Moderniste different artists on their canvases. cooperative wineries in Catalonia, and to Annual Report ”la Caixa” Banking Foundation 2014 58 Bringing culture and science to the public which the Foundation has contributed This time in history saw the convergence The centre’s programming also included 3.6 million euros to renovate eight of of these movements with the appearance exhibitions such as Food justice, with these wineries, in 2014 CaixaForum of the right conditions for the more than 4,000 visitors, and Energy. For Lleida hosted the large travelling mechanisation and modernisation of rural a sustainable future, seen by over 11,000 exhibition entitled Wineries. The businesses in Catalonia, leaving as a people. Cooperative movement + Modernisme. legacy from this time a series of great This exhibition, which was seen by more buildings: cooperative wineries. The than 6,700 visitors, provides a look at the leitmotif for the exhibition were the CaixaForum Lleida exceptional architecture of this heritage buildings designed by Cèsar Martinell, Energy. For a sustainable future Wineries. The Cooperative spread throughout Catalonia's counties representing more than 50% of the movement + Modernisme and also provides an overview that wineries built, leading visitors to the Objects talk. Collections from the explains and contextualises the impressive constructions that still stand Prado Museum emergence of the cooperative and out in many Catalan towns. Food justice Moderniste movements. CaixaForum Tarragona de Brai (Terra Alta). All these buildings, The exhibition Wineries. The designed by the architect Cèsar Martinell, Cooperative movement + were declared of national cultural interest Modernisme was a resounding by the Catalan government in 2002. success with the public as most of these emblematic buildings are This winery renovation programme also located in Tarragona’s counties. This received one of the great Cultural exhibition forms part of the activities Heritage awards by the EU and the carried out within the renovation cultural movement Europa Nostra, programme known as “cathedrals presented in Vienna (Austria). It was of wine”. chosen from among 160 different candidates and has endorsed the The buildings included under this initiative as an example of public-private agreement, taken out with the Culture collaboration. department of the Catalan government, are located in the counties of Alt Camp, Other exhibitions held at the Tarragona Conca de Barberà, Priorat and Terra centre were Food justice, with over 8,500 Alta and were built between 1913 and visitors and Energy. For a sustainable 1922 on behalf of the respective local future, recording more than 9,400 CaixaForum Tarragona agricultural unions. Specifically these visitors. CaixaForum Tarragona ended its Energy. For a sustainable future Wineries. The Cooperative are the wineries of Nulles (Alt Camp), programme in 2014 with the exhibition movement + Modernisme Barberà de la Conca, Espluga de Francolí Objects talk. Collections from the Prado Objects talk. Collections from the and Rocafort de Queralt (Conca de Museum, attracting more than 31,000 Prado Museum Barberà), Cornudella de Montsant and people. Food justice Falset (Priorat), and Gandesa and Pinell 59 Annual Report ”la Caixa” Banking Foundation 2014 CosmoCaixa Barcelona A meeting point for science and people CosmoCaixa Barcelona During 2014 CosmoCaixa celebrated 7 million the tenth anniversary of the centre CosmoCaixa opened its doors at its opening in Barcelona. Over the course present site in September 2004 to carry of these ten years, seven million on the work performed by the Science 739,649 visitors have confirmed the venue’s Museum, namely acting as a meeting popularity in the city, transforming it point between citizens and science. in to a national and global benchmark Boasting 33,000 square metres it has through its mission to spread embraced all types of experiences and Visitors Total visitors knowledge, and specifically scientific events. The balanced combination of in 10 years knowledge, to all society. permanent spaces and areas dedicated to activities, workshops and temporary Throughout this decade of service the exhibitions has allowed it to offer a National Research Council. This means 29 temporary exhibitions, more than programme open to everyone. In 2014 the public now have to a laboratory 2,100 activities, aimed at all kinds of the centre recorded 739,649 visitors. in which different top level research audiences and a continual, evolutionary campaigns have been carried out under way of redesigning the dissemination One of the permanent spaces with the extreme weather conditions. of content have made CosmoCaixa an greatest impact is the flooded forest invaluable tool in the cultural life of and the 3D Planetarium. In 2014 a new Another highlight of 2014 was the Barcelona and a living, proactive means permanent space was added: the CosmoCaixa exhibition depicting the of spreading science throughout all module of the Antarctic science base head of a Triceratops horridus. This levels of society. Juan Carlos I, provided by the Spanish exemplary fossil was found during an excavation in 1999 at a ranch in North Dakota (United States). Triceratops lived in the Late Cretaceous period 71 and 65 8000000 million years ago and hold the record for 7000000 having the largest head of all non-aquatic 6000000 animals ever to have populated the 5000000 4000000 planet. With regard to the temporary 3000000 exhibitions, those which enjoyed the 2000000 largest number of visitors during the 1000000 last ten years are: Iguanas, Dinosaurs, 0 Treasures of the Gobi Desert, Abracadabra. Illusionism and science, Techno revolution, Good family names and Long live difference! Sonarkids As in previous years, the CosmoCaixa programme had unmissable attractions such as the SonarKids event with five days of music and experimentation with families, as well as the finals of the World Annual Report ”la Caixa” Banking Foundation 2014 60 Bringing culture and science to the public Robot Olympiad, an international robotic visit to get to know the worldwide archaeological exhibition held at event involving teams of children and project Human Brain (HBP) which is CaixaForum Barcelona, focusing on Greek youngsters between 7 and 19 years of attempting to understand the human and Latin culture, entitled Mediterranean. age. The robots taking part in this brain, divided into different secondary From myth to reason. competition are made from pieces of research projects carried out by Lego and had to be assembled and multidisciplinary teams of scientists all Mediterranean. Our sea as you’ve never designed during the actual tournament over the world. seen it introduced visitors to marine life itself. and biodiversity, asking questions about Among the prominent personalities human pressure on this fragile ecosystem, Other initiatives hosted by CosmoCaixa from the scientific community coming at the same time as questioning man’s are the area for encouraging to CosmoCaixa in 2014 was the long relationship and the different experimentation, research and curiosity primatologist Jane Goodall, who gave cultures that have emerged along its among the young, namely Tinkering a talk on A life dedicated to science shores, as well as the main risk factors Studio. This is a new work space in and the protection of the environment. and current obstacles for its survival. The collaboration with the Massachusetts exhibition was complimented by a street Institute of Technology, the San Francisco The Mediterranean, our sea performance entitled Medusa by the Exploratorium and the United States company Artristas, during which the National Science Foundation. The Top The exhibition of 2014 was audience were invited to immerse Science space has a similar aim and is Mediterranean. Our sea as you’ve never themselves in a different way in the designed for all kinds of audiences. In seen it. An exhibition that, for the first Mediterranean, turning the area into 2014 one of the proposals was a virtual time, was complementary to an a sea brimming with surprises. 61 Annual Report ”la Caixa” Banking Foundation 2014 Science in Society knowledge among the citizens of the capital may be channelled through this Science in Society Spreading scientific knowledge and facility. This 3 million euro investment will 161,945 beneficiaries encouraging people to study science help to renovate the planetarium’s 124,100 beneficiaries are the priorities of the science and projection room, providing it with the environment programmes carried latest optical and digital technologies. out by the Foundation. In 2014 these This agreement formalises the 17,382 beneficiaries goals were pursued in two main Foundation’s stable collaboration with the ways. On the one hand, by taking three most important planetariums in the on the challenge of spreading country, Madrid, Pamplona and the knowledge and scientific methods CosmoCaixa Barcelona planetarium, a Activities Activities Activities Planetarium Planetarium Natural Science throughout European society, facility it already fully manages. in Pamplona in Madrid Museum whether through the project RRI in Madrid Tools or deploying the Science City Another highly successful alliance is the project through a set of informative one between the ”la Caixa” Foundation activities in 32 municipalities in Spain. and the Spanish Foundation for Science last three years and has 6.9 million On the other hand by establishing and Technology (FECYT), running summer euros in funding from the European collaborations with institutions campuses together for several years. In Commission. As a collaboration project, such as the planetariums in Madrid 2014 the City Council of Alcobendas its implementation is made possible and Pamplona, visited by 74,000 assigned the building of the Museum of thanks to the involvement of 26 partners schoolchildren, and the Museum Science to the FECYT as the site for the and the creation of 19 national hubs that of Human Evolution in Burgos. new National Museum of Science and will work to achieve maximum Technology (MUNCYT). The ”la Caixa” involvement from those taking part in The establishment of alliances, both at Foundation participates in this agreement the research and innovation processes. a national and the European level, is a with an investment of 1.8 million Throughout 2014 efforts were made 200000 way to create networks of knowledge euros to finance the new centre’s to consolidate a community to guide and dissemination and make use dissemination, thereby reinforcing its scientific knowledge towards social 150000 of institutional synergies. These commitment and increasing its activity in progress, paving the way for the phases collaboration networks also contribute the area of promoting and disseminating 100000 of production, awareness-raising, and to strengthening links between science science-related content in this training that begin in 2015. and society. This is the case of the autonomous 50000 community. collaboration between the Foundation Science City 0 and the Planetarium in Pamplona, the RRI Tools, research at the service Pamplonetario, in which the contribution of social progress As part of the work to promote and of ”la Caixa” represents almost 50% of spread science, the Science City project the budget, thanks to which this facility The RRI Tools project is creating a (www.ciudadciencia.es) was extended can now promote and disseminate its benchmark website for responsible throughout 2014 to 32 municipalities work further. The Foundation and the research and innovation within the around the country. This initiative, promoted Planetarium also participate in the framework of the European Union and a by the CSIC (Spanish National Research Tecnoplanetario group which promotes series of digital tools for its Council) and the Foundation, aims to collaborative work with national and implementation. In 2014 the Foundation bring current scientific issues closer to the international institutions with which coordinated 27 meetings in 22 countries different towns and cities involved. During they share new dynamics and projects in which more than 400 institutions 2014 some of these issues were covered to ensure the content offered by the participated from 30 European counties by activities such as the exhibition countries’ planetariums reaches the to determine how to bring research and Biodiversity 2010, tackling the concept of public. innovation closer to the needs and social biodiversity and the challenges and threats reality of Europe. to its preservation. Other exhibitions The Foundation has also signed a included: Darwin 2009. 150 years of the collaboration agreement with the Led by the Foundation and coordinated Theory of Evolution; The universe for your Planetarium in Madrid so that part of by the Area of Science and the discovery; A sea of data; Energy moves us. the activities to spread scientific Environment, the RRI Tools project will Science for cleaner, more sustainable and Annual Report ”la Caixa” Banking Foundation 2014 62 Bringing culture and science to the public more accessible energy; Between molecules; Additionally, www.xplorehealth.eu has biotechnology, research into obesity, The sphere of water; Orchids; A stroll also increased its circle of clusters by mental illnesses cancer and genomics. through the nanoworld; and FOTCIENCIA10, adding new research centres such as the an exhibition with the winning images from site in Granada to those already up and Scientific debate the 10th National Scientific Photography running in Catalonia (IrsiCaixa) and in Contest of the same name. Galicia (Domus). The aim is to help users The Area of Science and the Environment simulate research processes in areas such promotes several platforms for debate as a Educational platforms as the AIDS vaccine, in the case of the formula to build bridges and relationships cluster coordinated by IrsiCaixa. between the scientific community and Together with the Science City platform society. One of these is B-Debate which, in as a means of spreading knowledge www.xplorehealth.eu contains 2014, organised different meetings among citizens, the educational websites multimedia tools such as videogames, attracting over 200 top level scientists to The sea in depth and Xplore Health have virtual experiments, teaching units and tackle issues such as epigenetics and continued to expand the activities they interactive proposals to introduce the cancer, the future of personalised offer. In 2014 The sea in depth presented educational community (teachers and respiratory medicine, the challenges and Oceans, a board game to impart students) to how research projects are opportunities created by biomedical data, knowledge about the planet’s seas and carried out as well as the debates arising Biomedical Big Data, and environmental oceans. The game creates a virtual in these settings related to research, its impacts on the brain’s neurodevelopment journey from different ports on the planet goals and purposes. This is a formula to during childhood, among others. aboard oceanographic research ships that promote Inquiry-Based Science Education. converge in Barcelona after passing several tests in which players test their One of the proposals concerns knowledge of biology, geology, physics immunology and vaccines, such as the and chemistry and also geography, research carried out to combat malaria. history and technology. Other areas of interest include 1 2 8 9 63 Annual Report ”la Caixa” Banking Foundation 2014 Bringing culture and science to the public Music The CaixaProinfancia participative concert Music In 2014 the participative concerts 360,000 participants transcended borders. The system used For the fifth year, CaixaProinfancia held a to organise this shared musical event participative concert of the Messiah in in which amateur singers learn, 2014, now fully established within the rehearse and actively participate in a Art for Social Improvement programme. 31,237 high quality and demanding musical The preparation of the concert brings participants programme side-by-side with together some 200 schoolchildren and is prestigious conductors and symphonic linked to the programmes orchestras, has been exported to CaixaProinfancia and Intercultural Participative Overall Portugal. The Fundação Calouste Community Intervention as well as to the concerts in 2014 Gulbenkian has adopted this format to creative workshop Let’s sing Messiah. present Carmina Burana by Carl Orff Through the work carried out in these while the 17 participative concerts held workshops a particular version of Messiah to a school-going audience. Finally, the in Spain reached 14 cities. emerged which was later presented at concert Tubes and tubas teaches students the Palau de la Música. about different families of instruments, in In 2014 17 participative concerts were this case wind instruments, and Finish your performed, attracting a total audience of Educating school aged audiences soup introduces them to the process of 31,237 people in 14 cities across Spain. musical creation. Three works were performed: Messiah by The series of school and family concerts Händel, Great Opera Choirs, and The continued in 2014 with shows such as The 342 family and school concerts held participative musical. The first two were Noah’s Ark, Teranga. The legacy of the in 2014 attracted 96,626 people but held in Bilbao, Burgos, Las Palmas, griots of Senegal, William Tell, The Trojan other concerts were also held at the Tenerife, Merida, Palma, Seville, Madrid, War, Tubes and tubas and Finish your Foundation’s centres as part of musical Barcelona and Pamplona. As for The soup held in different cities around the seasons, with a total of 64 recitals enjoyed participative musical, this was organised country. The aim of these shows is for by 72,015 people. The overall audience for the first time at concert halls in spectators from different educational for these events was 168,641 people. Malaga, Lleida, Manresa, and Vic. The cycles and stages to be introduced to, musical is the most recent addition to the trained and educated in the world of the 400000 participative concerts’ repertoire with a performing arts and music. The format 350000 programme that takes us on a journey of each300000 show has specific educational through the history of musical theatre Noah’s Ark explores a myth from goals. 250000 2 with fragments from songs by Gershwin, universal culture that’s present in the 200000 Rodgers, Bernstein, Sondheim, Kander, religious texts of the three main 150000 100000 monotheistic religions, the Bible, the Webber, and Schönberg, among others. 50000 Quran and the Torah. The Trojan War 0 Since the first participative concert of brings us closer to one of the classics of Messiah by Händel was held in 1995, literature and to the world of Hellenic over the course of almost two decades mythology. The format of William Tell this format has placed 39,000 singers adapts this opera by Rossini to present it and musicians on the stage, reaching an overall audience of 360,000 people. The maturity and experience acquired have meant that the model of participative concerts promoted by the Foundation is arousing interest beyond our borders. This format has been adopted in Portugal by the Fundação Calouste Gulbenkian, with which the Foundation maintains collaboration links in the area of global health research. The participative concert was held in Lisbon. Annual Report ”la Caixa” Banking Foundation 2014 64 Building a world with less inequality Introduction 66 69 International 72 International alliances Introduction The primary lines of action implemented Global development by the Foundation through its Since 1997, the Foundation’s International Area are, firstly, This area deals with socioeconomic International Area has developed socioeconomic development to create development programmes which different programmes that are the opportunities to improve living are aimed at creating jobs and reflection of the organisation’s social conditions and, secondly, global health encouraging financial inclusion, action abroad. It does this convinced training and research programmes and creating an economic and productive that the goal of improving people’s also actions to combat the main fabric in communities where sources quality of life and wellbeing can pay diseases affecting the most vulnerable of income need to be generated for no heed to geographical borders. This populations. In recent years a series of the most vulnerable families. All the action is carried out at a local level in strategic alliances and agreements have programmes are aimed at such countries in Africa, Asia, and Latin been reached to be able to carry out families, they last for four years and America, with projects focused on the these actions and programmes in are carried out in African, Asian and creation of jobs, new opportunities collaboration with local nonLatin American countries. In 2014 for economic and personal governmental organisations from the the socioeconomic development development, and the generation and countries where the work is being programmes provided support in 11 strengthening of economic and implemented. In 2014 collaboration countries, from which it is calculated productive systems in vulnerable was started with 23 leading that 28,000 small producers have communities. These actions also international organisations in the area benefitted. It is worth highlighting include global health programmes, of global health development. that 50% of the beneficiaries are especially focused on the fight against women who’ve been able to start the main causes of child mortality, as Global development and Global health or consolidate all kinds of projects, well as aid for victims of humanitarian are the two main lines of the ”la Caixa” generally micro-firms, smallholdings crises caused by natural catastrophes Foundation’s international action. or projects to create small companies or armed conflict. to process agricultural products. Annual Report ”la Caixa” Banking Foundation 2014 66 Building a world with less inequality Professional training programmes in that help to reduce infant mortality by The Child Vaccination programme African countries are also implemented vaccinating children under five, involves work to facilitate access to to provide people with knowledge in programmes to combat child malnutrition vaccines for children under five years of subjects such as entrepreneurship or and training programmes for health age and is therefore an effective means business management, preparing them professionals in African countries. All of reducing infant mortality. The to face the challenges of starting or these actions are complemented by the programme is implemented with the consolidating business projects in these research programmes of the Barcelona collaboration of the GAVI Vaccine areas. Since the beginning of the Institute for Global Health (ISGlobal) and Alliance, an organisation that brings programme in 2006 more than 20,000 the pioneering project to eradicate together public and private entities and people in Africa have been trained with malaria in southern Mozambique. which has become a leader in the field the collaboration of various of vaccination and immunisation. organisations. Since its launch in 2006, the training Economic contributions to this alliance programme for health professionals in come from four different sources: The contribution of the Africa has trained more than 13,000 ”la Caixa” Foundation, the Business CooperantesCaixa programme doctors, nurses and midwives. The aim is Alliance for Child Vaccination (AEVI), complements this line of action. to train these professionals in priority donations from ”la Caixa” employees This voluntary service offers the issues related to health and health and other donations. Since 2008 more professional knowledge of employees management. than 2.1 million children under five have from the ”la Caixa” Group in areas been vaccinated in campaigns against such as consultancy, technical One of the most ambitious and fardifferent diseases such as diphtheria, assistance, management, drawing up reaching projects is the programme tetanus, whooping cough, meningitis, business plans and managing credit to eradicate malaria. This has set itself hepatitis and pneumonia. funds. Every year 40 volunteers spend the goal of eliminating the disease up to three weeks in different countries by 2020 in three provinces in southern In the area of humanitarian emergencies to share this knowledge. Since 2007 Mozambique (Maputo, Gaza and and aid, support for refugees fleeing the programme has deployed a total Inhambane). As well as the ”la Caixa” Syria as a consequence of the armed of 280 volunteers all over the world Foundation, the project also counts on conflict and the programme to fight to attend to 30 different projects. the support of the Bill & Melinda Gates against Ebola in Sierra Leone, together Foundation and, as a technical and with the Red Cross, have been the focus The training and professionalisation scientific partner, the Institute for Global of work in 2014. Thanks to these of cooperation organisations, as Health (ISGlobal). programmes, we have contributed to well as raising awareness of issues related to development among the most vulnerable populations, are also priorities of the Foundation. Awareness-raising activities are organised to spread a culture of peace and respect throughout society, including exhibitions, talks, meetings, workshops and film cycles that present the life lessons and experiences of different professionals or show other cultural situations to make people more aware of different ways of life. Global health The second key area of action is global health. Health problems such as infectious diseases, malnutrition and maternal and infant health issues are a global threat and represent the main problems for developing countries. Work is therefore carried out in programmes 67 Annual Report ”la Caixa” Banking Foundation 2014 Child vaccination 2,121,837 116,477 Estimate of children vaccinated Children in 2014 vaccinated in total Development programmes €4.25 million 28,672 Beneficiaries Investment improve the logistics and equipment of Organization for Migration (IOM) and of the labour market integration 2500000 the Red Cross Hospital in Sierra Leone. Development Alternatives, as well as the programme Incorpora to Morocco and Beyond aid during emergencies, the promotion of the MED Confederation and 2000000 Poland, in 2014 helping to create more Foundation also focuses on reducing our involvement in the European 1500000 than 3,800 new labour market child malnutrition and is estimated to Foundation Centre and the Council on opportunities. Another example is the 1000000 have helped more than 83,000 pregnant Foundations. programme of Comprehensive care for and breastfeeding women in countries in 500000 people with advanced diseases, which sub-Saharan Africa. Moreover, as a result of these agreements has shown how the psychosocial care 0 and alliances with internationally model in the final phases of life is fully Alliances with important international prestigious cultural and scientific effective and functional in cultures as organisations, institutions and institutions, 500000 the Foundation has also diverse as Mexican and Chinese. Different foundations and the creation of networks helped 400000 to organise high quality exhibitions psychosocial care teams have worked in are key for the international visibility of and activities with significant public palliative care in both Mexico and Hong 300000 ”la Caixa” Foundation and clear impact. In the case of the Social Area’s Kong. The work to extend this examples of our international presence alliances, 200000 we have also helped to export programme was carried out in are the projects carried out in the work and approach of the collaboration with the Carlos Slim 100000 collaboration with the Inter-American Foundation’s programmes to cultural Foundation and the Bank of Asia. Development Bank, the Aga Khan contexts 0 and countries very different from Foundation, the International our own. This is the case of the extension Annual Report ”la Caixa” Banking Foundation 2014 68 Building a world with less inequality International Global health Crisis and humanitarian action International action is a priority of The Child Vaccination programme, in 83,400 ”la Caixa” Foundation for its growth collaboration with the GAVI Vaccine beneficiaries and presence abroad. In 2014 the Alliance, estimates that, in 2014, access International Division established two to the pneumococcal vaccine was main areas of action with the goal of provided for 116,477 children aged helping to create new opportunities under five in Mozambique. Since 2008 for development and progress, we’ve contributed to the vaccination of impacting on key issues such as the more than 2.1 million children. This Child malnutrition fight against poverty, the generation programme is financed by an annual campaigns (2014) of sustainable economic activity, contribution from ”la Caixa” Foundation training and global health. as well as contributions from ”la Caixa” employees, micro-donations and The International Division is divided into donations from companies that form Finally, ”la Caixa” Foundation, the two main spheres of activity: Global part of the Business Alliance for Child Barcelona Institute for Global Health development and Global health. Vaccination, with a total contribution of (ISGlobal) and the Bill & Melinda 1,450,000 euros in 2014. Gates Foundation have signed up to a Global development pioneering programme to eradicate The emergency campaigns in 2014 focused malaria in Mozambique with the goal of The socioeconomic development on the fight against Ebola in Sierra Leon, eliminating this disease in the southern programme promotes projects for to which achieved over 56,200 euros for part of the country by the year 2020. create employment, ensure sustainable improving the logistics and equipment of economic activity and strengthen the Red Cross Hospital in Sierra Leone, and economic and productive sectors in support for victims of the conflict in Syria vulnerable communities. In 2014, 28,672 through the Catalan Committee for small producers from 11 countries Refugees UNHCR. Humanitarian action benefitted from 4.25 million euros in continues to focus on reducing child assistance. malnutrition, benefitting 83,400 children 100000 1 2 5 6 8 9 and pregnant and breastfeeding women CooperantesCaixa, the corporate in Senegal, 80000 Chad, Ethiopia and Niger. voluntary technical assistance service, 60000 worked in the field with a total of 40 40000 employees in 2014, helping to strengthen the business lines of 18 organisations in 20000 nine countries. 0 Entrepreneurial management training programmes in African communities instructed 1,633 people in the areas of micro-firms, cooperatives and social enterprises. Additionally, over 10,000 people have benefitted from training programmes for managers involved in cooperation and humanitarian action to improve the professionalisation of NGOs. This training was carried out in collaboration with ESADE’s Institute of Social Innovation, the Coordinator for Development NGOs and the Institute of Studies on Conflicts and Humanitarian Action (IECAH). 69 Annual Report ”la Caixa” Banking Foundation 2014 Awareness-raising activities to reflect and spread social justice, Meetings with Commitment (testimonials from professionals equality and solidarity in the world. working with the most vulnerable, intended mainly for students): Exhibitions • 2014: 5,952 participants. • 2014: 201,550 visitors. • Ramón Lobo, Jesús Núñez, Jordi Urgell, Mònica Bernabé, • New exhibition in 2014: The most important thing: Portraits Gervasio Sánchez, Eloi Cordomí, Tomàs Molina, José Antonio of an escape. Barcelona. Bastos, Eduard Sanjuán, Esteban Beltrán, Lola Huete, Ignasi • Inventions. Ideas that change lives. Barcelona, Palma, Madrid. Carreras, John Carlin, Rosa Maria Calaf, Marc Marginedas, • Food justice. Tarragona, Lleida, Palma. Ricard Garcia Vilanova, Gonzalo Fanjul and Marc Marginedas. • Cambodia. Land of Hope. Zaragoza. International Division POLAND MOROCCO TURKEY HONDURAS MAURITANIA TUNISIA GUATEMALA SENEGAL INDIA HONG KONG HAITI (CHINA) MEXICO GAMBIA COLOMBIA PHILIPPINES EL SALVADOR GUINEA-B. ETHIOPIA NICARAGUA GUINEA-C. NIGER BURUNDI BURKINA F. CAMBODIA CHAD TANZANIA D.R. CONGO MADAGASCAR ECUADOR PERU ANGOLA MOZAMBIQUE BOLIVIA Annual Report ”la Caixa” Banking Foundation 2014 70 Building a world with less inequality Films KitCaixa • 2014: 101,646 spectators. (70 kits in Catalan, Spanish, Basque and Galician. Aimed at • Windows on the world. Barcelona, Tarragona, Girona, Palma. infant and early primary school children) • 8 countries, 8 stories. Barcelona. • 2014: 35,949 early education students. • Solidarity cinema. Barcelona and Madrid. • Film cycles related to exhibitions. Shows • 2014: 3,218 participants. Micro-exhibitions • A little look at the world. Tarragona, Madrid, Barcelona, Girona, • 2014: 19,343 participants in 36 locations. Palma, Lleida. Workshops • 2014: 16,980 participants. • Workshops related to exhibitions. • A little look at the world. Tarragona, Madrid, Barcelona. Socioeconomic development Latin America, Africa, Asia Training in social capital (entrepreneurs) Africa GLOBAL DEVELOPMENT CooperantesCaixa International voluntary service Latin America, Africa, Asia “Incorpora” programme Europe, Africa Mediterranean region, Latin International strategic alliances America, Africa, Asia Emergencies and humanitarian projects Africa Training in social capital (health) Africa Child Vaccination programme Africa GLOBAL HEALTH Programme against malaria Africa Comprehensive care for people with advanced diseases Latin America, Asia Mediterranean region, Latin International strategic alliances America, Africa, Asia 71 Annual Report ”la Caixa” Banking Foundation 2014 Building a world with less inequality International alliances l develo oba pm Gl e nt Cultu re h al ce Glob ea en i lth Sc Annual Report ”la Caixa” Banking Foundation 2014 72 Joint and decentralised activities 74 Joint activities 75 Decentralised activities Joint activities educational programmes as part of the Support was also provided to recover agreement with the National Centre of heritage, helping to preserve, organise In 2014, joint programmes of activities Research into Human Evolution (CENIEH). and catalogue sheet music from La were carried out as part of ”la Caixa” Laguna Cathedral, culminating in a Foundation’s collaboration with the Navarra concert being held inside the cathedral. banking foundations of Caja de Burgos, Caja Navarra, Caja Canarias and Cajasol, Agreements have continued with the Other notable activities were the ranging from concerts and exhibitions Caja Navarra Banking Foundation to International Seminar Campus Africa and to regional calls for grant applications implement programmes of social inclusion, the programme to preserve natural areas to help social initiatives and aid for vulnerable families, support for with projects such as the work carried agreements with centres promoting children, prevention of gender-based out to clean up Anaga, a very popular science, such as the planetarium in violence, employment, food banks and coastal area. Pamplona, and also with cultural social health care centres. institutions such as the Museum of Andalusia Human Evolution in Burgos. One of the most significant collaborations was carried out with the Planetarium in ”la Caixa” Foundation and Cajasol Some of the most significant initiatives Pamplona, allocating 350,000 euros to Foundation presented a project in 2014 to were the regional calls for applications for design and extend the activities offered by turn the Reales Atarazanas (Royal Grants for Social Initiative Projects held in this venue in the capital of Navarra. The Dockyards) in Seville into a new venue for Burgos, the Canary Islands, Andalusia Stars School has also been developed, as intercultural dialogue with the Americas. and Navarra, with dozens of projects well as other initiatives to help promote ”la Caixa” has committed an investment of selected in these areas to receive grants science. ”la Caixa” Foundation has also 10 million euros to reconvert and renovate totalling 2.9 million euros. Other joint provided content for the exhibition Marsthis historical site in Seville as a new cultural activities carried out in all areas are Earth. A comparative anatomy. venue to be managed by Cajasol exhibitions, participative concerts and Foundation. The architect Guillermo programmes with school concerts. In the area of heritage, the second stage Vázquez Consuegra was commissioned to has started of work to restore the cloister design this new centre, whose brief is to Burgos of the Santa María Cathedral in Tudela, devise a venue that creates and generates which is expected to be finished in 2015. activity and knowledge, with the capacity In 2014 work continued on restoring to convey the tradition and history of the Burgos cathedral. The agreement signed in Finally, in the social area, both institutions dockyards and also include cultural 2013 between the Cathedral Chapter and have played a decisive role in creating a activities. the banking foundations of Caja de Burgos centre to support people with some kind and ”la Caixa” has committed a sum of of disability and/or dependency. In 2014 the two foundations collaborated 1.15 million euros up to 2016, which will in several activities, such as the travelling be used to renovate the south and east Canary Islands exhibitions of street sculpture by Henry galleries of the Cathedral’s upper cloister. Moore in Seville, Cadiz and Huelva, and the Among the many important actions agreement to adapt the museum space of A collaboration agreement has also been carried out together with Caja Canarias Hermandad Esperanza in Triana, as well as reached with the Museum of Human is the second School Breakfasts a collaboration agreement related to Evolution (MEH) to disseminate and Programme, providing support for the actions in the social, educational, promote the culture of science, taking nutritional requirements of schoolchildren environmental and cultural areas with a the form of three exhibitions in 2015. in the Canary Islands. total investment of 50.3 million euros. Another collaboration is with the September 2014 also saw the Starmus educational project entitled The Ages festival, an initiative that combines of Man, an initiative to promote the science, astrophysics, music and art and heritage of Castile & Leon which provides the opportunity for Nobel prizeprovides subsidies to help organise winners, renowned researchers, thinkers, the exhibition Eucharist. scientists and figures from culture and the arts to exchange their knowledge and Finally, the two foundations have also experiences over the course of one week. collaborated in organising the European Astrophysicist Stephen Hawking gave the Night of Researchers and specific inaugural speech. Annual Report ”la Caixa” Banking Foundation 2014 74 Joint and decentralised activities Decentralised concentrate aid on proposals that take activities action where it is most needed. This new Decentralised activities system for managing the aid budget has The Foundation’s decentralised made procedures more transparent and 782,400 activities allow the direct, helped to prioritise projects according to 620,700 651,840 independent management of a part their scope and quality, selecting those of the budget via the ”la Caixa” with the greatest local effect and impact branch network. These resources on society. The result has been an are allocated to carry out and increase in the number of beneficiaries support social actions and compared with 2013. involvement proposed by regional Beneficiaries divisions, business area divisions Some of the key actions carried out in 2014 21,728 and branches; a formula that 20,690 were projects related to social canteens, 13,040 highlights the commitment and food donation campaigns, projects related complicity of the ”la Caixa” staff to creating jobs for young people, to with the Foundation’s work. It also acquire school material and provide support Activities programmed encourages contact with third for vulnerable mothers. All these projects sector organisations as they are in keeping with the priority lines of 2012 2013 2014 represent an excellent way to action of ”la Caixa” Foundation’s social monitor changing situations in their programmes. This converging focus is one immediate vicinity and detect any of the best indicators of how the coverage emerging needs. provided by the ”la Caixa” branch network throughout the country can endorse the In 2014 the network of over 5,500 Foundation’s priority actions and its ”la Caixa” branches directly and commitment to attend to those needs independently managed part of the and problems of greatest impact and Foundation’s budget for projects with a importance. local focus, with an annual investment totalling 34 million euros (28 million in 2013). These resources have been used to finance 13,040 activities with an estimated 782,400 beneficiaries. Most of the activities are in keeping with the Foundation’s lines of action, ranging from actions to combat poverty, encourage social harmony and cohesion, activities with the elderly, combating social exclusion and marginalisation, volunteering actions, the preservation and conservation of the environment, inclusive leisure, sports and cultural activities aimed especially at promoting grassroots sport. The management and selection of projects improved throughout 2014. Better coordination and the creation of specific teams and committees have ensured the most efficient proposals are chosen and, in second place, help to 75 Annual Report ”la Caixa” Banking Foundation 2014 Commitment to our stakeholders 78 Stakeholders of ”la Caixa” Banking Foundation (G4-24 and G4-25) 79 Determining material aspects and scope (G4-18, G4-19, G4-20, G4-21, G4-26 and G4-27) 88 Criteria 90 CaixaBank, leading the financial market through local, high quality service 92 Financial management Stakeholders of ”la Caixa” expectations concerning ”la Caixa” are as follows: Criteria Group and the Banking Foundation Banking Foundation’s actions and CaixaBank financial institution, the Board behaviour in its contribution to of Trustees, the Foundation Protectorate (G4-24 and G4-25) sustainability, in order to integrate of the Ministry of the Economy and these within the organisation’s Competitiveness, the government and ”la Caixa” Banking Foundation sees strategic considerations. public administrations, the academic Corporate Social Responsibility as community as well as the media, the dialogue and agreement possible • Identify potential aspects/areas of many different types of beneficiaries of between all stakeholders. For FBLC, its collaboration to work together in the programmes and activities carried out contribution to sustainability and the designing programmes that help to by the Banking Foundation (including good management of corporate unite forces and achieve agreed children, young people, the elderly, the responsibility will depend on the solutions in creating shared value. sick and, in particular, people at risk of Foundation working together with its marginalisation such as the disabled, stakeholders, either those that can • Unite and strengthen relations with immigrants and prison inmates, as well as significantly affect the activities carried each stakeholder. society at large), non-profit organisations out by FBLC, or those that can be as well as third sector organisations/ significantly affected by such activities. Accomplishing this work also helps us to associations, service providers and define and establish more systematic employees of the Foundation, and also Committed to continually improving its dynamics for relations and dialogue. customers of the CaixaBank financial stakeholder relations, FBLC has therefore institution. endeavoured to identify and study its The stakeholders of ”la Caixa” Banking main stakeholders at all levels of the Foundation identified through this study organisation. The scope of this study is an internal analysis of the organisation. The study’s universe was made up of DIAGRAM OF ”la Caixa” BANKING FOUNDATION STAKEHOLDERS (G4-24) almost all the projects that constitute its main activity and are grouped into four broad areas of activity. The methodology employed was an online questionnaire aimed at those in charge of each of the Criteria Group different programmes and projects, who and CaixaBank were asked which stakeholders they financial ”la Caixa” institution believe could affect or be affected Banking Board of Foundation Trustees significantly by the activity carried out by their project/programme/area of Protectorate responsibility, as well as the degree of (Ministry of the Employees Economy and influence/impact and the type and level Competitiveness) of participation therein. This information was complemented with an analysis of Government the organisation’s documentation and public applicable to stakeholders. Suppliers administrations (P.A.) This study has helped us to lay the foundations for subsequent work on Academic NPOs community stakeholder engagement and consultation; and third i.e. the external area of the organisation, sector associations in the coming years. Work whose specific Beneficiaries Media aims are, in turn, as follows: • Gain deeper insight into stakeholders’ expectations and interests regarding sustainability, as well as their Annual Report ”la Caixa” Banking Foundation 2014 78 Commitment to our stakeholders Determining material version, to a complete degree. This 2. Prioritisation of issues. aspects and scope procedure includes four basic principles: (G4-18, G4-19, G4-20, 3. Validation. 1. The report must identify its stakeholders G4-21, G4-26 and G4-27) and explain how FBLC has responded to 4. Review. This is the second integrated report their expectations and needs. of the Foundation’s work and the first These steps have allowed FBLC to detect as a Banking Foundation, providing an 2. The report should present the those aspects that are relevant both overview of the Foundation’s activity, organisation’s performance in the wider internally and externally and which its lines of action, spheres of activity, context of sustainability. should therefore be included and strategic objectives and management addressed in this report. system. The purpose of this document 3. The report should cover material is to respond to the needs of our aspects; i.e. those that reflect the A. Identification: analysis of the FBLC stakeholders and to identify those organisation’s significant economic, value chain (G4-18a) aspects that can be considered as environmental and social impacts or relevant (material aspects) for the substantially influence the analysis and The first step to establishing which organisation. These aspects include decisions of stakeholders. issues can be considered as relevant those that reflect the organisation’s for an organisation is to draw up its most significant economic, 4. The report should include the scope value chain. This allows us to detect environmental and social impacts, of material aspects (completeness). and analyse in which stages or activities as well as those that have a substantial these relevant issues for the organisation influence on the analysis and decisions In accordance with these principles and occur. of our stakeholders. with the aim of identifying those aspects that are truly relevant for FBLC, the To address this first stage, FBLC In order to detect and analyse these different steps have been followed conducted an internal study where matters, the ‘Principles for Defining contained in the ‘Implementation Manual’ it defined its value chain, considering Report Content’ from the Global of the Guidelines for preparing the both its activity and the different inputs/ Reporting Initiative (hereinafter the GRI) sustainability report, G4 version, of the GRI: outputs that interact with and have an have been used in accordance with the effect on the Foundation’s management. Sustainability Report Guidelines in its G4 1. Identification: analysis of the value chain. 79 Annual Report ”la Caixa” Banking Foundation 2014 ”la Caixa” Banking Foundation’s value chain (G4-18a) “To contribute to the advancement of people and society, with particular emphasis applied to the most vulnerable groups, through our own programmes, through strategic alliances or collaborative efforts with third parties, achieved by means of efficient and, when appropriate, innovative actions, the results of which can be evaluated and utilised by other entities. With the priority area of action in Spain and a global vision in line with the international environment. At all times guided by our objectives for sustainable social transformation and the creation of opportunities for people.” Our mission Main resources Key activities that Main outcomes Benefits for society generate value (including programmes and projects) •Creating new job People: Employees, opportunities and taking Volunteers advantage of existing ones Social Area •Creating a model to promote Particularly: Reincorpora, Incorpora, Accessible Housing and develop vulnerable Board of Trustees children living in poverty and Social Rent, •Granting rental Comprehensive care for people with advanced accommodation to young •Employment integration Criteria Group diseases, CiberCaixa, people and the elderly •Encouraging entrepreneurism CaixaBank Violence: Zero tolerance, •Integration into the •Access to decent housing, CaixaProinfancia, Social workforce for groups at risk especially for groups such Entrepreneurism, Programmes of marginalisation as young people, the elderly Shareholders, social •Promoting active, healthy for the elderly, International and families on low incomes organisations, public Cooperation, Intercultural ageing •Combating the marginalisation •Improving the quality of life administrations, Community Intervention, of people living in situations Volunteers, Subsidies of people with advanced of poverty, with particular universities, museums, to social entities diseases emphasis on children banks, foundations •Guidance for new entrepreneurs Education Area •Improving social harmony Suppliers •Expansion of knowledge Let’s talk about drugs, •Encouraging the transfer of eduCaixa, Scholarships, Education activities, •Creating a pedagogical portal knowledge, the carrying out Shareholders, social Educational programme, aimed at schoolchildren, of research and technological organisations, public Social studies associations and parents advances •Granting training scholarships administrations, universities, museums, Science Area •Increasing the culture banks, foundations Research in general, •Bringing research closer to of science in society and RecerCaixa, Conservation society innovation of Natural Spaces and •Stimulating scientific •Encouraging excellence Financing: Occupational Reintegration, vocations and recognising •Exchanging scientific Return on equity ClimaDat, Medclic, research as a driving force knowledge Own activities CosmoCaixa, Science in Society for social progress •Improving and caring for the •Alliances with scientific environment research institutions Culture Area •Measuring and gathering Information systems Art exhibitions, Participative climate data and processes concerts, Caixaforum: Bcn, •Expanding culture; bringing Madrid, Girona, Tarragona, the world of culture to all Lleida, Zaragoza and Palma, •Cultural alliances kinds of audiences Energy, water, Social Impact programme •Art exhibitions everywhere other materials •Organising concerts Solidarity Integrity Values Humanism Transcendence Annual Report ”la Caixa” Banking Foundation 2014 80 Commitment to our stakeholders (G4-18a) also ensure its financial and reputational Lastly, once the Foundation’s value chain stability. The key resources required for had been defined, the most material In 2010, as part of its 2010-16 Strategic the Foundation, as proved by the aspects were identified along with the Plan, FBLC defined the mission and values previous study, are principally its main areas of action they may affect within that form the basis of its activity in stakeholders; its employees, Criteria, FBLC. Below is a diagram showing the accordance with a robust strategy and CaixaBank, its shareholders, the Board of main topics considered, as well as the clear, transparent guidelines (see page 10). Trustees, volunteers and third sector stages during which they can affect associations, its suppliers and its financial FBLC. FBLC requires a set of primary resources and natural resources such as energy and that enable it to carry out its activity and water. Key aspects and scope (G4-19 and G-20) “To contribute to the advancement of people and society, with particular emphasis applied to the most vulnerable groups, through our own programmes, through strategic alliances or collaborative efforts with third parties, achieved by means of efficient and, when appropriate, innovative actions, the results of which can be evaluated and utilised by other entities. With the priority area of action in Spain and a global vision in line with the international environment. At all times guided by our objectives for sustainable social transformation and the creation of opportunities for people.” Our mission Main resources Key activities that generate value Main outcomes Benefits for society (including programmes and projects) Criteria for selecting projects Employment Transparency in programmes and projects Occupational health and safety Monitoring, evaluation and learning from Commitment to stakeholders programmes and projects Diversity and equal opportunity Integration of gender and diversity Social benefit of ”la Caixa” Equal payment for men and women in the programmes Banking Foundation Financial management Coordination with third party activities Importance of actions and Indirect economic impact and programmes contribution to the advancement Supply chain management Alliances and financing of projects of society Good governance and programmes Environmental management Political influence and awareness-raising Image of ”la Caixa” Banking Foundation campaigns Environmental projects Solidarity Integrity Values Humanism Transcendence 81 Annual Report ”la Caixa” Banking Foundation 2014 B. Prioritisation (G4-27) community, the public administration, while the lowest rated aspects were the similar organisations, companies and lack of support and fluency of Once the material aspects were service providers, as well as the communication, the degree of reviews identified, these were prioritised. During employees of CaixaBank. and improvement of the programmes this stage it was determined how each and initiatives. aspect could be transferred to the The results of the study showed that the organisation’s situation, bearing in mind most important matters for the various Lastly, a media analysis was conducted the relevance of each one for FBLC’s stakeholders surveyed were encompassed which helped to identify possible issues activity. This point also took into account within the scope of FBLC’s social action. that could endanger FBLC’s reputation the material aspects included in the GRI The surveys also showed that the as they are widely discussed in the document entitled “Sustainability Topics different stakeholders were in favour of media and therefore need to be for Sectors: What Stakeholders want to prioritising and allocating more resources addressed according to the basic values know”, which establishes the topics that to social action than to any other area. and principles of the Foundation, such may be considered as relevant by each Notably, the aspects most frequently as honesty and transparency. This sector. This served to ensure that all those mentioned by these stakeholders had to analysis showed that the most widely matters with a significant social, do with FBLC’s contribution to the discussed topic by the media was the economic or environmental impact would advancement of society, its image in benefit to society provided by FBLC, be taken into consideration with relation society, the benefits provided by FBLC followed by the support, funding and to the type of activity carried out by for society and the relevance of the coordination with other participants. FBLC. At the same time, the influence actions carried out by the Foundation. Another recurring topic was news items of these matters on the stakeholders’ on the management and transparency of evaluations and decisions was also A section of the study also asked projects and programmes from the assessed. This was achieved by consulting respondents about the aspects that had different areas: social action, education, the different groups of stakeholders and been given the highest or lowest rating. solidarity renting, healthcare, social by carrying out a media analysis. The results showed that the most highly entrepreneurism, humanitarian aid, rated aspects were the degree of social inclusion, the fight against poverty Stakeholder consultation included a transparency and thoroughness, the and social exclusion. perception study on the relationship and cordiality and approachability of FBLC, perspectives of these groups regarding satisfaction with their relationship with Once all the different inputs had been FBLC. The study covered stakeholders, the Foundation, its contribution to the assessed and considered, the following including collaborating organisations, advancement of society and the social map was designed, showing a non-profit organisations, the academic benefit and relevance of the actions, breakdown of the material aspects. Annual Report ”la Caixa” Banking Foundation 2014 82 Commitment to our stakeholders Prioritisation graph (G4-18a, G4-26 and G4-27) LOW MEDIUM HIGH Benefit to society HIGH Support, funding Influence on the analysis and decisions made by stakeholders Image of the Foundation’s work and coordination with other organisations Criteria in selecting projects Good governance Financial management MEDIUM Project management and transparency Integration of gender Professional development Supply chain management and diversity of employees in programmes Health and Safety Climate change Consumption of water and resources and energy Environmental projects LOW Political influence and awareness-raising campaigns Waste management Significance of the economic, social and environmental impact C. Validation (G4-18a) none of the aspects that had been considered in the previous stages was The third stage was to have these modified, and therefore the aspects aspects validated to ensure they were in included in the prioritisation are the line with the real situation of the FBLC’s final material aspects. activity. During the validation process, 83 Annual Report ”la Caixa” Banking Foundation 2014 D. Review (G4-18a) The table below shows the different material aspects that should be material aspects as well as topics included considered in the appendices at the end This last stage was to review the process based on the results of the materiality of the online report. used to determine the material aspects, study. A column has also been added as well as to update the material aspects with the material aspects considered in depending on the strategy and context of the GRI guidelines in accordance with the the Foundation. G4 version. This helps to identify those The material aspects identified, by order of relevance were as follows: (G4-19, G4-20 and G4-21) Material aspects G4 indicators and GRI specific considered in the Topics standard disclosures materiality study Main projects in accordance with the FBLC's strategy for the different areas: social action, education, social renting, health, humanitarian aid, social inclusion, the fight against poverty and social exclusion, employment for people with few qualifications, G4-EC1: Direct economic value Incorpora programme, social entrepreneurism generated and distributed Benefit to society Benefit and value for society of ˝la Caixa˝ Banking Foundation NGO7: Resource allocation Importance of the actions and contribution to the advancement of society Support, funding Coordination with third party activities and programmes, alliances NGO6: Processes to take into account and coordination with other organisations/foundations and coordinate with the activities of with other Economic support for other organisations/foundations other actors organisations Image Foundation’s No equivalent aspect has been found image Differentials compared with other institutions Structure, diversity, payment and transparency of the Board of Trustees and the different governing bodies in accordance with good practices in corporate governance G4-LA12: Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per Good governance Code of ethics and its related training and communication plans employee category according to gender, age group, minority group membership, Existing management committees and other indicators of diversity Internal procedures to avoid conflict of interest Annual Report ”la Caixa” Banking Foundation 2014 84 Commitment to our stakeholders The material aspects identified, by order of relevance were as follows: (G4-19, G4-20 and G4-21) (continuation) Material aspects G4 indicators and GRI specific considered in the Topics standard disclosures materiality study G4-EC1: Direct economic value generated and distributed Financial management policies G4-EC4: Financial assistance received from government NGO8: Sources of funding by category and five largest donors and monetary value of their contributions Financial Budget allocation by area G4-PR7: Total number of incidents of management non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship, by type of outcomes Financial control policies and mechanisms Financial assistance received from government G4-EN31: Total environmental protection Sources of funding and monetary value of the contribution expenditures and investments by type NGO7: Resource allocation Criteria in Criteria considered for the selection of projects in accordance No equivalent aspect has been found selecting projects to FBLC’s strategy Transparency, systems to monitor, evaluate and learn from G4-SO1: Percentage of operations with programmes and projects implemented local community engagement, impact assessments, and development programmes Efficiency and impact of programmes and projects G4-PR8: Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of Changes made to programmes and projects in order to improve customer privacy and losses of customer them data Project management NGO2: Mechanisms for feedback and and transparency Measures established to communicate changes in programmes and projects complaints in relation to programmes and policies and for determining actions to take in response to breaches of policy Privacy and security for clients/beneficiaries NGO3: System for program monitoring, evaluation and learning, (including measuring programme effectiveness and Mechanisms for feedback and complaints impact), resulting changes to programs, and how they are communicated Integration of NGO4: Measures to integrate “gender Measures to integrate gender and diversity into the design, gender and and diversity” into programme design, implementation, evaluation and learning cycle of programmes diversity in the implementation, monitoring, evaluation and projects programmes and learning cycle 85 Annual Report ”la Caixa” Banking Foundation 2014 The material aspects identified, by order of relevance were as follows: (G4-19, G4-20 and G4-21) (continuation) Material aspects G4 indicators and GRI specific considered in the Topics standard disclosures materiality study G4-EC3: Coverage of the organisation’s Implementation of a system to attract and retain talent defined benefit plan obligations (compensation and social benefits policies) ENG4-EC5: Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local minimum wage at significant locations of operation Job stability (trade unions, retirement schemes) G4-LA1: Total number and rates of new employee hires and employee turnover by age group, gender and region G4-LA2: Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to Wages temporary or part-time employees, by significant locations of operation Professional G4-LA3: Return to work and retention development rates after parental leave, by gender of employees G4-LA10: Programmes for skills Employee training and development management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings G4-LA11: Percentage of employees Policies on the diversity, equality and integration of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews, by gender and by employee category G4-LA12: Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per Dialogue with trade unions and existence of a collective agreement employee category according to gender, age group, minority group membership and other indicators of diversity Implementation of a Health and Safety management system G4-LA5: Percentage of total workforce according to international standards represented in formal joint management– worker health and safety committees that help monitor and advise on occupational Raising awareness and training for employees in the area of health health and safety programmes and safety Health and safety G4-LA6: Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days and Risk management absenteeism and total number of workrelated fatalities, by region and by gender System to record data on employee rate of injury, absenteeism and G4-LA8: Health and safety topics covered lost days in formal agreements with trade unions Annual Report ”la Caixa” Banking Foundation 2014 86 Commitment to our stakeholders The material aspects identified, by order of relevance were as follows: (G4-19, G4-20 and G4-21) (continuation) Material aspects G4 indicators and GRI specific considered in the Topics standard disclosures materiality study G4-EN3: Energy consumption within the organisation Identification, evaluation and objectives for the reduction of energy G4-EN4: Energy consumption outside the consumption and emissions (carbon footprint and/or emissions organisation related to the activity of the organisation) G4-EN6: Reduction of energy consumption G4-EN15: Direct greenhouse gas emissions Climate change (scope 1) and energy G4-EN16: Energy indirect greenhouse gas emissions (scope 2) Encourage efficiency and renewable energies to alleviate climate G4-EN17: Other indirect greenhouse gas change emissions (scope 3) G4-EN19: Reduction of greenhouse gas emissions G4-EN1: Materials used by weight or Identification, evaluation and targets for reducing the usage volume of paper and printing consumables G4-EN2: Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials Consumption of water and Identification, evaluation and reduction of the impact the G4-EN8: Total water withdrawal by source resources organisation has on water resources G4-EN9: Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water Promoting the recycling of water G4-EN22: Total water discharge by quality and destination Processes to formulate, communicate, implement, and change advocacy positions concerning specific topics, as well as public NGO5: Processes to formulate, Political influence awareness campaigns carried out communicate, implement and change and awarenessadvocacy positions and public awareness raising campaigns Strategies, activities and actions related to raising public awareness campaigns Supplier management system to extend commitments to labour, G4-EC9: Proportion of spending on local Supply chain the environment, health and safety, ethics, etc. to the supply chain suppliers at significant locations management Measures to identify, evaluate and monitor suppliers of operation Actions to prevent forest fires, plantation of forest species by Environmental communities, CosmoCaixa and the environment, participation No equivalent aspect has been found projects in the global blackout Identification, evaluation and targets for waste reduction Waste G4-EN23: Total weight of waste by type management and disposal method Waste management system All the aspects detected in previous Given its type of work, beneficiaries are any doubts or queries regarding any studies are both dealt with in this report one of FBLC’s main stakeholders. stage of the project. on an annual basis and also regularly and Consequently, depending on the type of continually through the different project or programme, they also have channels of communication established different channels (both physical and with stakeholders. online) through which they can pass on 87 Annual Report ”la Caixa” Banking Foundation 2014 Criteria Following the reorganisation of the ”la Caixa” Group in October 2014, Criteria is an unquoted holding company, 100% held by ”la Caixa” Banking Foundation, that manages the Group’s company assets, basically consisting of CaixaBank, the leading retail banking financial group in the Spanish market, as well as in shareholdings in strategic sectors such as energy, infrastructure, services and the property sector. The gross value of its assets, as at 31 December 2014, is 28,965 million euros (net value of the assets of 20,040 million euros). Gross value of the portfolio and the assets of Criteria CaixaHolding as at 31/12/2014 0,7% 1,6% (1) 1,5% 5,7% 19,3% 9,8% Properties 10,9% 50,8% 50,1% 24,7% 59,0% 34,3% Gross value of the portfolio: €28,965 million (1) Mediterránea, Caixa Capital Risc, Vithas, Aguas de Valencia and Aigües de Barcelona. Annual Report ”la Caixa” Banking Foundation 2014 88 Commitment to our stakeholders Abertis Gas Natural Fenosa Leading international group One of the leading in the management of multinational companies in motorways and terrestrial and the gas and electricity sector. satellite telecommunications It is present in more than 25 Suez Environnement infrastructures, with more countries and it has more than 7,300 kilometres across than 24 million customers One of the leading operators the world. It is present in 15 and an installed capacity of at a global level, dedicated to countries in Europe and approximately 15 gigawatts. the management of the America, which has allowed it complete water cycle and of Saba to diversify its geographical It is the largest integrated residues. Present in more than risk and better adapt to global gas and electricity company 70 countries across the five Leading industrial operator in economic cycles. in Spain and Latin America, continents. In the water the management of car parks the leader in gas sales in the business, it supplies drinking and logistical parks. With a In the area of Iberian peninsula and the water and provides sewerage presence in 2014 in six telecommunications number one distributor of to 92 and 66 million people countries: Spain, Italy, Chile, infrastructures, the Group is natural gas in Latin America. respectively, and it is the main Portugal, France and Andorra, positioned as the leader in the Furthermore, it is a leading operator in Spain and Chile the Group manages close to terrestrial telecommunications operator of LNG and natural and the second largest in 190,000 parking spaces, infrastructures and services gas in the Atlantic Basin and France. In the waste business spread across more than 350 sector in Spain and is a in the Mediterranean. it manages the collection of car parks, following the Aena, leading international operator residues generated by 52 Adif and Bamsa transactions. in the satellite transmission million people and provides In parallel it manages a sector, as the main controlling treatment and disposal network of seven logistics shareholder of the operator services. It is the main parks with a gross surface Hispasat (57.05%). operator in France and in the area of more than 730,000 Approximately two thirds of Benelux region. square metres on some 620 the Group’s revenues are hectares and a reserve of generated outside of Spain, buildable area close to 3 with a particular weighting in million square metres. France, Brazil and Chile. 89 Annual Report ”la Caixa” Banking Foundation 2014 CaixaBank, leading the disposal a team of more than 31,000 financial market through highly qualified professionals, a complete proximity and quality of catalogue of products and services and the largest commercial network in Spain, service with 5,251 branches and 9,544 cash machines. CaixaBank is a financial group, leader in the Spanish market, made up of a This specialised business model is CaixaBank, banking business, an insurance business completed with a leading multi-channel a benchmark and investments in international banks distribution system, the result of a deepcompany for one and leading companies of the services rooted culture of innovation and constant sector. commitment to investment in technology. in four people CaixaBank is a leader in electronic in Spain CaixaBank operates according to a banking with more than 13.7 million universal banking model which is based cards, and in new channels with 5.5 on a service of proximity and on a million active customers in online banking personalised value proposition for its 13.4 and 3.4 million in mobile banking. million customers. The bank puts at their We act in accordance with our values: trust, quality and commitment to society Flagship institution Financial strength Committed and sustainable Number one retail bank in Spain Total assets of 338,623 million euros Present in the main sustainability indexes (DJSI, FTSE4Good, CDP Specialised management model: Excellent solvency metrics: 13.0% CET 1 Leadership Index) banking for individuals, personal banking, private banking, banking Successfully passed the asset quality for SMEs, banking for companies and review (AQR) and the stress test 82,586 microloans granted through corporate banking performed by the European Banking MicroBank, its social bank Authority (EBA) Leader in online and mobile banking Outstanding liquidity: 56,665 million EFQM Golden Seal for European euros (16.7% of total assets) 5,400 participants in the corporate Excellence for management quality volunteering programme Appropriate financing structure: Loan to Deposits ratio of 104% Chosen as the bank with the greatest commitment to innovation in the Global Signatory to the United Nations Solid coverage ratios: 55% coverage of Banking Innovation Awards in 2013 and Global Compact and Equator doubtful debt and of the net foreclosed in 2014 Principles assets available for sale Annual Report ”la Caixa” Banking Foundation 2014 90 Commitment to our stakeholders Great commercial capacity In 2014, CaixaBank consolidated its position as Spain’s leading bank with 271,758 M€ 27.6% large market shares in the major retail 258,291 M€ 24.7% banking products and services. 207,231 M€ 197,185 M€ The Group made an attributed profit of 620 million euros in 2014, with growth in banking business income (+5.1% in interest margin and 3.7% in fees), an increase in recurring pre-impairment income of 18%, up to 3,167 million Customer funds Customer loans, gross Market penetration for retail customers* euros, and an improvement of efficiency (–5.1 percentage points in 2014). DECEMBER 2013 DECEMBER 2014 *Source: FRS Inmark. Market share of the main retail banking products (December 2014) RANKING PRODUCT MARKET SHARE 98.435 300000 30 250000 Salaries 25 23.08 200000 Pensions 20 19.95 150000 Card billing 15 21.43 POS terminal billing 18.405 24.83 100000 10 Life insurance savings 21.29 50000 5 Insercions 1 st Demand deposits 15.37 acumulades 0 0 Demand and term deposits (resident private sector) 14.45 National Electronic Clearing System (SNCE) 15.99 Mortgages 15.85 Loans to resident private sector 14.89 Pension plans (IPP + APP) 19.43 Business credit 13.10 2nd Investment funds 15.26 3rd Factoring + reverse factoring 19.59 Note: Latest available data. Source: Compilation based on sources from the Banco de España, the Social Security office, INVERCO, AEF (the Spanish Factoring Association) and the ICEA. 98.435 18.405 Insercions acumulades 0 5 10 15 20 25 91 Annual Report ”la Caixa” Banking Foundation 2014 Financial Management stakeholders: how efficiently resources small degree by resources produced by are allocated and the social value the Foundation’s own activities and Financial management is one of the most generated by the investments made. others coming from aid grants, subsidies important aspects for ”la Caixa” Banking or donations received from individuals or Foundation and we aim and are The economic side of FBLC is primarily from public or private organisations. committed to being fully transparent with funded by the resources arising from the our stakeholders. This allows us to return of its assets, balancing the flow The direct economic value created or address two of the material aspects raised of annual revenue and expenditure, distributed by the Foundation in the last in the surveys carried out with our although funds are also boosted to a very three years is as follows: Direct economic value created or distributed by ”la Caixa” Banking Foundation In thousand euros(1) 2014 2013 Year-on2012 Year-onMain stakeholder year change year change (2014-2013 (2013-2012) Direct economic value 436,611 284,063 54% 261,932 8% created (EVC) Revenue (subsidies received, ”la Caixa” financial services provided and other 92,642 284,063 –67% 261,932 8% institution management revenue) Economic value distributed 436,611 284,063 54% 261,932 8% (EVD) Operating costs 52,653 31,785 66% 15,032 53% Suppliers Salaries and corporate 11,445 31,658 –64% 29,092 8% Employees benefits for employees Payments to governments Government and public 5,442 725 651% 994 –37% (taxes) administrations External services and aid NPOs, third sector granted (community organisations; many investments) 367,071 219,895 67% 216,814 1% different beneficiaries of the programmes and activities of FBLC and suppliers (1) The amounts for the year 2014 correspond to all the Foundation’s work managed by ”la Caixa” Banking Foundation in an integrated manner. The prior periods only include the part of the Foundation’s work managed by the now dissolved ”la Caixa” Foundation managed (approximately 75% of the total) (see page 8). FBLC continuously strives to optimise contributing to greater efficiency in the Information Systems Area which centralises financial resources. Of particular note management of resources. all FBLC’s rules and regulations, keeping among the measures it adopts is the them updated and available for all application of the objective procedures Compliance with laws and employees on the Intranet. There are also for the selection of suppliers, paying regulations other, more specialised areas of ”la Caixa” special attention to containing structural Banking Foundation that work to ensure expenses and overheads. This measure Legal compliance is essential for FBLC; compliance such as the Legal, Finance and results in improvements and savings, that’s why it has the Organisation and Human Resource departments. Annual Report ”la Caixa” Banking Foundation 2014 92 Commitment to our stakeholders Policies and goals – r eviewing the project before the final • Lastly, the budget expenditure is payment is made to confirm that the approved by the Governance Bodies The main policies and goals related to funds provided by FBLC have been (Board of Trustees). the Foundation’s budget management correctly applied; are as follows: As a result of the aforementioned internal – a uditing projects to ensure the financial control procedures, FBLC has • Allocate most of the financial resources projects financed are correctly clearly defined a set of Regulations for to carrying out social actions, managed. the Monitoring System: maintaining an appropriate and proportionate level of science and Budget management and internal • Following up compliance of the budget environment, research, cultural and control and managing possible deviations educational programmes. through procedures to approve/provide The Foundation’s Budget Management funds in a centralised manner, through • Maintain a geographical balance area operates according to the following cost applications made by the areas throughout Spain. internal financial control procedures: carrying out the programmes. • In its own programmes, optimise the • Based on the main strategic lines • Specific, detailed monitoring of use of resources through: established, resources are allocated via operating costs and overheads. cost accounting procedures, planning –p articular emphasis on containing and monitoring costs by project, centre • Existence of Procurement Regulations structural costs/overheads; and programme. that ensure: –p rocurement through objective • The resulting budget is approved by – s uppliers are hired without risk; selection procedures that ensure an the Governance Bodies of the Banking appropriate balance between quality Foundation (Board of Trustees). –p  rocurement is carried out ensuring and cost efficiency (tenders); efficient cost/quality ratios. • Throughout the year, the success –d efining programme targets aimed of the approved budget and any • The annual financial statements of at achieving results that ensure an potential deviations (transfers between ”la Caixa” Banking Foundation are efficient cost/benefit ratio. projects) are monitored and checked subjected annually to a mandatory on a daily basis by the Budget external audit and regular inspections • In programmes carried out with other Management area. of procedures and programmes are organisations, ensure transparency in carried out by the Internal Audit area selection processes and in the results • The budget follow-up, how the of the ”la Caixa” Group. obtained by the projects funded: programmes are progressing and possible new project proposals are –d istributing resources via calls for regularly reported to the Banking applications aimed at the network of Foundation’s General Management social organisations, led by an and Board of Trustees. independent panel of experts in the field that ensures the most • A statement of estimates is drawn appropriate projects are chosen; up every quarter. 1 2 10 93 Annual Report ”la Caixa” Banking Foundation 2014 Generating values and activities of ”la Caixa” Banking Foundation 96 Areas and programmes 96 Stakeholder engagement in the different stages of the project (design, implementation, monitoring and evaluation) (G4-25) Areas and programmes business activity. Year after year, this has most vulnerable; Suporting progress; allowed ”la Caixa” to further its Bringing culture and science to the Since it was set up, the Foundation has commitment to people, which has public; and Building a world with less made a point of reinvesting in society a become a differential. The Foundation’s inequality. very significant proportion of the profits activities are divided into four broad lines produced by the Group’s financial and of action: Offering opportunities to the Stakeholder engagement in the different stages of the project (design, implementation, monitoring and evaluation) (G4-25) ”la Caixa” Banking Foundation (FBLC) which also helps to further FBLC’s desire combining efforts and reaching agreed strives to involve all its stakeholders in for transparency. solutions in generating shared value. each of the activities it carries out. This is how FBLC attempts to improve the In fact the Gavi Alliance, in which the The table and diagrams below provide implementation and efficiency of each of Foundation plays an active role via its details on each of the five stakeholder its programmes, by sharing experiences, Child Vaccination programme, stood groups that are most closely involved in knowledge and the necessary resources out in 2014 as one of the most projects and the extent of their produced by this interrelation at the time transparent international development engagement in the different project stages. of developing and implementing organisations in the world in terms of its programmes. cost effectiveness and its contribution to It should be noted that, although all development according to the Aid stakeholders included in these diagrams Stakeholder engagement in the Transparency Index which covers 67 participate in over 75% of the projects programmes and, more precisely, in their organisations. and programmes, public administrations different stages (design, implementation, and the scientific community (both with monitoring and evaluation) is an The stakeholders with which FBLC tends over 81%), beneficiaries (75%) and important indicator of the extent of their to have the most frequent and systematic suppliers (over 84%) are the most collaboration and involvement in the relations and dialogue are as follows: frequent participants in any stage of the organisation’s activity. It’s also a way to beneficiaries, public administrations (PA), projects and programmes. It should also integrate the different perspectives and service providers, the academic be noted that the different public expectations of the stakeholders, community and third sector institutions administrations are equally involved in all ensuring the effectiveness, quality and and non-profit organisations (NPOs). stages while beneficiaries are mostly legitimacy of the programmes. involved in the implementation and This coordination allows FBLC to identify monitoring stages of projects. On the That’s why FBLC, as an entity, encourages those aspects and/or areas suitable for other hand, suppliers are mainly involved the engagement of its stakeholders in the joint work, as well as participating in in the implementation, monitoring and different stages of a project, something creating programmes and projects, evaluation stages. Annual Report ”la Caixa” Banking Foundation 2014 96 Generating values and activities of ”la Caixa” Banking Foundation NG01. Processes for involvement of affected stakeholder groups in the different project stages (G4-26) Public Third sector Academic % involvement Beneficiaries Suppliers administrations actors community Total involvement 82.14 85.71 60.71 78.57 82.14 Continued involvement via dialogue or 46.43 78.57 57.14 64.29 57.14 alliances Processes for involvement of affected stakeholder groups in the different project stages Public Third sector Academic % involvement Beneficiaries administrations actors community Suppliers (NG01.E) in the stage of: (NG01.A) (NG01.B) (NG01.C) (NG01.D) NG01.A.2 NG01.B.2 NG01.C.2 NG01.D.2 NG01.E.2 25.00 50.00 53.13 67.86 50.00 Design NG01.A.3 NG01.B.3 NG01.C.3 NG01.D.3 NG01.E.3 64.29 85.71 67.86 71.43 78.57 Implementation NG01.A.4 NG01.B.4 NG01.C.4 NG01.D.4 NG01.E.4 57.14 82.14 53.57 46.43 71.43 Monitoring NG01.A.5 NG01.B.5 NG01.C.5 NG01.D.5 NG01.E.5 71.43 67.86 53.57 60.71 78.57 Evolution 97 Annual Report ”la Caixa” Banking Foundation 2014 FBLC carries out several actions to enable all beneficiaries completing the training different stages in order to include basic different stakeholder groups to become itineraries has risen to 60%, considerably improvements based on their suggestions involved in the cycle of each project. reducing the gap between the number of as a form of continued learning. The rest people starting and completing this road of the agents involved in supporting the Among some of the actions that cyclically map and those finally being offered an programme, such as partners (IESE form part of this inclusive dynamic of employment contract. Business School and the office of URIA) stakeholder groups in projects are and suppliers (Tandem Social) participate particularly follow-up meetings with the Another of the objectives described in the actively via follow-up meetings related to social organisations. For example, the evaluations carried out was the the programme’s design, evaluation and actions related to the Violence: zero experimentation of training models implementation. Finally, representatives tolerance programme to monitor the which, in 2014, led to the start of a pilot from PAs and other relevant agents in trend in beneficiaries on a monthly and study for the new Incorpora training the social entrepreneurism ecosystem are six-monthly basis. This work is also points which are being tested in four also actively involved in selecting evaluated via four surveys carried out by Catalan cities (Barcelona, Girona, Lleida projects. Barcelona University on groups of female and Tarragona), in Madrid and, aimed beneficiaries and a final report is drawn particularly at young people, in Another of the actions undertaken by up. The same measure of meetings has Andalusia. FBLC is direct involvement in preparing also be used by the programme Aid for and carrying out projects. For example, art projects for social improvement The results and monitoring of this in the Intercultural Community carried out together with the Pere Tarrés experiment are integrated within the Intervention project (ICI) different Foundation in order to improve the Incorpora platform which is another of actions are carried out to involve a range mechanisms used to evaluate projects the fundamental tools in the procedures of stakeholders. The teams that may be given financial aid. used to monitor and control the implementing the project in each region programme’s efficiency. Thanks to this establish relations with the three key Particularly of note is the involvement of platform, improvements have been made agents from the community; beneficiaries in programmes to promote to acceptance processes, the selection of administrations (politicians and active, healthy ageing, with the elderly people and the communication and managers of private bodies), representing a key driving force in the resolution of incidents via email between professionals and citizens, in order to creation and design of local volunteering specialists from the social organisations in promote joint actions and share their projects as they are the main people to question, beneficiaries and those in knowledge of the situation and produce carry out this work, with the support of a charge of the programme. The platform a diagnosis and a community professional. also includes forms to control attendance, programme. By enabling expert relations incidents and for assessment of the and coordination, these three agents can The management and scientific advisors people carrying out socio-occupational take part in the different design, for different programmes regularly followitineraries. implementation, monitoring and up the progress made, as is the case of the evaluation stages and are therefore questionnaires answered by the children Another of the measures used to involve involved both at the level of the actions and families benefitting from the Hospital stakeholders is by sharing out different proposed and carried out and also in CiberCaixas, produced by Barcelona functions within a project. In the Social terms of the results obtained with both University and the Bosch i Gimpera Entrepreneurism programme, for the receivers and beneficiaries of these Foundation. These questionnaires are also example, in addition to having the activities. complemented with data gathered every support of the different PAs such as the month by programme volunteers on the Spanish and Catalan governments, the This is also the approach taken by the activities, necessary materials and any academic sector is also involved. programme of Grants for Social incidents occurring. Universities, in particular IESE Business Initiative Projects, sharing the School, take on the scientific information from the programme and the Analysis and evaluation management of the project, validating results with the PAs and involving social As a result of the analysis and evaluation both the design and its implementation, organisations in designing the rules for carried out in 2013, the Incorpora monitoring and evaluation, not only for grant applications and in defining the programme started to implement the programme but also for the social priority lines of action based on society’s improvements to make the programme firms selected. needs. On the other hand, and new to more efficient which, in 2014, were 2014, were the ”la Caixa” awards for reflected in the results of the programme. Entrepreneurs, the main stakeholder for Innovation and Social Transformation The share of people finding a job out of the programme, are consulted in the which reward innovative practices by Annual Report ”la Caixa” Banking Foundation 2014 98 Generating values and activities of ”la Caixa” Banking Foundation social organisations and share these with The scientific community is another to stakeholder dialogue and relations, society. These awards required the stakeholder involved in several stages FBLC provides them with different support of a committee of experts from of FBLC’s programmes and projects. For mechanisms and tools so that they can the third sector, academia and example, for the eduCaixa programme, pass on their opinions, suggestions, communication, both in the public and the educational community is involved in complaints or requests for information private sphere, to select the best projects. defining and monitoring the project by to the Organisation. The Foundation considering the information gathered sees the feedback received from its Up to 2014 evaluations were carried out from different focus groups. stakeholders (internal and external) as a of results using weekly, monthly, quarterly means of evaluating its programmes. This and annual reports on the project. Audits Another example of involvement helps it be more efficient when reviewing were also carried out on processes, as between FBLC and the scientific programmes in order to respond to the well as qualitative studies of the situation community is the publication of the needs of its stakeholders. of each geographical area. At the same Reincorpora Technician Guide, a tool to time, an impact assessment was also help and guide the work of experts in All the feedback received by the carried out using two surveys on social organisations collaborating with Organisation is handled within the community harmony and intercultural the Reincorpora programme for the framework defined by FBLC so that users relations in areas with high cultural socio-occupational integration of prison of its activities and centres can diversity in 2010 (8,928 interviews) and inmates. There is also a collaboration communicate their complaints or another in 2012 (9,323 interviews), agreement signed with the Coastal suggestions to the most appropriate helping to analyse the first phase of Ocean Observing and Forecasting System party. This also has a dual purpose: development for the project (from 2010 of the Balearic Islands (ICTS SOCIB) to providing a means to express the needs, to 2013) and its repercussions over time carry out the project entitled Medclic: problems and suggestions for on the areas in question. Another survey the Mediterranean, just a click away. improvement as well as turning these is planned for 2015 on the 24 new areas, This is a project to create a network to suggestions for improvement into actual then after the project in 2016 and 2017. measure parameters of the effect of operations within the Organisation’s climate change on the Mediterranean, process of ongoing improvement. Regarding the programme of similar to the one already implemented Comprehensive care for people with with the ClimaDat network, although in In 2014 the feedback mechanisms were advanced diseases, an effectiveness its case on land. A network that is now improved further, as well as implementing study is carried out every year on the fully operational with eight climate new mechanisms. One example of note improvement in the emotional measurement stations in eight natural are the mechanisms implemented in dimensions dealt with by the areas. 2014 by the Incorpora programme with psychological and social assistance the experts from the social organisations provided by the teams (EAPS). The Lastly, regarding the involvement of the involved in the project via new training parameters measured indicate significant scientific management for the points. This tool helps to establish a improvements in all variables, from the CaixaProinfancia programme, better channel of communication with patients’ mood to their level of anxiety, coordinated by the Ramon Llull University the beneficiaries and those in charge of upset or suffering. in collaboration with universities close to the programme, as well as with its end the regions where the programme is users. In the International Cooperation implemented, the results were published programmes, one requirement included in 2014 of evaluations carried out the 2014 also saw the introduction of in the rules is that applicant cooperation previous year. Among the parameters improvements in the website for the organisations must specify the criteria analysed to measure the incidence and Social Housing programmes, in and mechanisms they employ to include impact of the programme were indicators particular the Accessible Housing and involve beneficiaries in the different for the academic development of the programme, to help users look for stages of the project. In the case of children assisted (see pages 14 and 15). housing developments by entering key humanitarian aid programmes, and words that produce lists of the particularly emergencies when it’s usually Mechanisms for feedback developments highlighting the dates for more difficult for stakeholders to become in relation to programmes upcoming calls for applications and involved, their participation is also and projects placing these developments first in the evaluated in the different stages of the list of results. project, providing details of fundamental Formal channels criteria regarding respect and observance Committed to the ongoing improvement In this respect, and given the of humanitarian principles and values. of its programmes and projects, as well as Foundation’s priority for receiving 99 Annual Report ”la Caixa” Banking Foundation 2014 feedback on its work, 75% of FBLC’s opinion and 69% have mechanisms to of these mechanisms by area of activity projects include some kind of mechanism report complaints and send suggestions. or by feedback category: to report feedback, while a further 75% of the projects provide mechanisms to It should be noted that there are no request information, 72% to express an substantial differences in the availability NG02. Mechanisms for feedback (G4-26) Total Area of activity Research, Cases % Social Educational science and the Culture environment % projects incorporating NG02 26 78.13 63.1 100 75 100 feedback % projects NG02.1 incorporating requests for 24 75 68.42 100 75 83.33 information % projects NG02.2 incorporating 23 71.88 63.16 100 75 83.33 opinions % projects NG02.3 incorporating 23 71.88 63.16 100 75 83.33 suggestions % projects NG02.4 incorporating 23 71.88 63.16 100 75 83.33 complaints Projects 32 19 4 3 6 FBLC has established procedures and mechanisms used by the projects and projects provide mechanisms to request channels at the level of organisation so programmes, from the most to the least information whose means of access is the that any of its stakeholders can provide frequently used, are as follows: a specific internet. It should be noted that, in 2014, feedback on its programmes and contact email address; a complaint/ particular emphasis was placed on the projects. The main mechanism used is the suggestion form via the website; paperpotential of social media as a bidirectional generic contact phone number for the based complaint/suggestion forms medium to communicate with Foundation. Once the request for available at appropriate locations stakeholders. The percentage varies information/opinion/suggestion/ (centres and travelling exhibitions); depending on the type of feedback being complaint is received, it’s redirected to systems for face-to-face or direct contact provided but is around 72% both for the head of the project in question. (such as the customer service office or opinions and suggestions and also However, only a few programmes rely OAC); and the project’s specific contact complaints. solely on these general mechanisms to numbers. request information. Such feedback is obtained via many FBLC provides access to all these different channels. Most programmes have also developed feedback mechanisms prioritising the use different specific mechanisms adapted of new technologies. Consequently The programme of Comprehensive care to their needs. The main specific approximately 72% of the Organisation’s for people with advanced diseases Annual Report ”la Caixa” Banking Foundation 2014 100 Generating values and activities of ”la Caixa” Banking Foundation carries out face-to-face visits of the on visitors and specific ratings are in which the project’s teams take part organisations and hospitals where requested from users based on their and follow-up meetings are also assistance is provided; satisfaction opinions. These data are complemented periodically held with these groups. surveys are also carried out with the with other information gathered via Other programmes such as Grants for psychosocial care teams, who are also focus groups, using standardised rating Social Initiative Projects record the interviewed in depth, producing highly procedures. opinions of social organisations in the satisfactory results (see page 20). Other reports on completed projects in order channels such as those used by the The project of Intercultural to improve the rules for future calls for Science in Society programme make Community Intervention (ICI) has a applications. use of social media to obtain information collaborative environment with a forum Mechanisms for feedback The project The project The project The project allows Type allows requests allows opinions accepts complaints for information to be made suggestions to be brought NG02.1.1 NG02.2.1 NG02.3.1 NG02.4.1 Specific mechanisms 71.88% 71.88% 71.88% 68.75% (internet) NG02.1.2 NG02.2.2 NG02.3.2 NG02.4.2 Mechanisms other than 56.25% 56.25% 46.88% 56.25% the internet Specific meetings Intervention teams are given an patients and the care provided by the In 2013 FBLC made several assessment questionnaire every time teams, as well as on 194 health improvements to its programmes to FBLC holds a training event, as well as professionals receiving the work carried channel the feedback more efficiently an online assessment questionnaire out by the psychosocial care teams, to while also increasing the capacity to aimed at gathering information on the get their individual feedback from each provide answers, especially to the development of the project’s key one. In 2014 the results showed that beneficiaries of its programmes. aspects. 92.2% of the patients rated the attention CaixaProinfancia is one of the received as excellent or very good and programmes that, in 2014, promoted Satisfaction surveys close to 94.81% of the patients claimed networking among all the institutions, Satisfaction surveys are another channel to have received all the contact they both public and private, working with that is frequently used, whenever needed from the professionals. the families attended. The ICI project possible. The systematisation of these Particularly of note are the improvements also provides the following mechanisms surveys establishes a channel for in the area of communication and for feedback: regular follow-up meetings feedback that provides information relations with the family and their with the intervention teams, i.e. the directly from beneficiaries which can be environment. 80% of the patients teams that are hired by social taken into account in future attended believe that the attention organisations to carry out the project in improvements to the programme. received has improved significantly in each region, and also city councils with Programmes such as Reincorpora, aspects related to tackling difficult which a collaboration agreement has Comprehensive care for people with questions and resolving pending issues been established. advanced diseases and Science in and that it has helped to establish better Society include this kind of survey. communication between patients and Intervention teams have forums that act their families; 90% would recommend it as a collaborative environment. All those Within the programme of to people in a similar situation to agents with whom FBLC has signed a Comprehensive care for people with themselves. Finally, the groups of collaboration agreement have an email advanced diseases, for example, the professionals surveyed such as medical address and phone number to deal with same team that takes part in the project directors, doctors, nurses and other any queries, suggestions, opinions, etc. carries out the satisfaction surveys on the professionals rated the work carried out 101 Annual Report ”la Caixa” Banking Foundation 2014 by the psychosocial care teams as 4.59 impact and thereby being able to respond In this respect, it’s notable that, in 2014, (on a scale of 1 to 5). to the changing needs of today’s society. the Foundation’s cultural programmes worked on designing a qualitative FBLC not only demands robust, efficient All the Foundation’s projects and evaluation system for the educational channels of communication from the programmes in its different lines of activities carried out at the CaixaForum projects it leads but also demands these action (Offering opportunities to the centres. from the organisations it works with. For most vulnerable; Suporting progress; instance, in the International Bringing culture and science to the The different programmes aimed at the Cooperation programme has created an public; and Building a world with less Elderly also implemented mechanisms in online communication platform for all inequality) and spheres of activity 2014 to qualitatively assess their socioeconomic development (social, cultural, education and research, activities. This is the case of the IT and organisations, Spanish NGOs and local science and the environment) have communication programmes and also NGOs in the countries were projects are systems for monitoring and/or followthose for health and well-being that implemented. This has substantially up, evaluation and learning. Almost form part of the activities to promote improved relations, the sharing of all the projects (97%) have systems for active, health ageing. These quality opinions and feedback between them monitoring and follow-up while 94% studies evaluate the relevance of the and FBLC. of the projects carry out assessments content, methodology and effectiveness or results analysis to evaluate their of the professionals running the specific Systems for monitoring, evaluation performance. activities carried out at the centres for and learning the elderly. On the other hand, and in 94% of the projects introduced changes the case of programmes for social The very nature of non-profit and improvements in 2014 thanks to the participation and volunteering, an impact organisations, together with the role they monitoring and evaluation systems assessment was carried out via surveys play in society in the current social and implemented. Regarding this last stage, it aimed at the beneficiaries of the projects economic context, makes them inherently should be noted that the areas in which in focus groups, which were also open to responsible for proving the legitimacy, projects and programmes have the experts and people running the value and efficiency of the actions they introduced most changes are education activities. carry out. FBLC, fully aware of this fact, and society, in 100% of the cases, while makes accountability and transparency this target was achieved in 75% and The specific follow-up actions and/or one of its top priorities, seeing them as 83% of the projects in the areas of activities carried out in 2014 were as indispensable elements within its overall research, science and the environment follows: ongoing recording of data commitment to its stakeholders and, in and in culture, respectively. about the activity (94%), and follow-up accordance with its values and principles, visits (81.25%) for programmes. the basic pillars of its strategy. The most widely used follow-up and Moreover, most projects have their own monitoring systems by FBLC’s projects monitoring committees (78%) y perform The ability to innovate in each of the and programmes were of a quantitative audits and/or work with external expert programmes and projects comes from nature, with data being recorded and/or consultants (75%), assess their activity the ability to detect, through monitoring produced both as an ongoing process by surveying specific groups and request and evaluation systems, any possible throughout the project’s implementation audits of accounts (46.8%) and improvements that could be implemented and as a single activity at the end of the qualitative studies (69%). Lastly, the in the projects’ future design. project (applied by 97% of the projects in least frequently performed follow-up Consequently, in order to achieve the both systems). In this respect, when the exercises in 2014 were still the auditing goals set by FBLC, it’s crucial that frequency is not ongoing, the system or of processes (41%). During the programmes and projects are indicators resulting from the project are evaluation stage, the assessment and appropriately monitored and evaluated. used both for follow-up and for the analysis carried out by most of FBLC’s evaluation stage. The vast majority of projects took the following form: FBLC believes that ongoing improvement FBLC’s projects and programmes apply evaluation meetings and annual or is crucial in its work to gauge the quality ongoing qualitative information systems assessment reports considering and efficacy of its programmes, projects (72%) and qualitative information quantitative indicators and/or qualitative and activities, as well as measuring their systems at the end of the project (75%). data (97% of the projects in both cases). Annual Report ”la Caixa” Banking Foundation 2014 102 Generating values and activities of ”la Caixa” Banking Foundation NG03. System for monitoring, evaluation and learning Total Area of activity Research, Cases % Social Educational Science and the Culture Environment Have monitoring, evaluation and NG03 30 93.75 100% 100% 75% 83.33% learning systems Have follow-up NG03.1 and monitoring 32 100 100% 100% 100% 100% systems Carried out NG03.2 follow-up actions and activities 32 100 100% 100% 100% 100% in 2014 Carry out NG03.3 assessments or analyses of 31 96.88 100% 100% 75% 100% results Introduce NG03.4 improvements and changes 30 93.75 100% 100% 75% 83.33% for 2014 Projects 32 19 4 3 6 Projects with follow-up and monitoring systems Have ongoing Have ongoing Have final quantitative Have final quantitative qualitative indicators quantitative information information (throughout the indicators systems systems process) NG03.1.1 NG03.1.2 NG03.1.3 NG03.1.4 96.88% 96.88% 71.88% 75% 103 Annual Report ”la Caixa” Banking Foundation 2014 Each project and programme manages its performance and the social and variables in 2014. The same year also own monitoring, control and evaluation economic impact of the initiatives for all saw the evaluation of the degree of systems independently and in accordance three grant application periods to date, satisfaction of the relatives attended, with its own needs. as well as a six-monthly assessment of as well as incorporating improvements qualitative and quantitative data on the to the online platform to qualitatively In 2014 the programme of Grants for social and economic impact of the improve the teams’ work. Lastly, new Social Initiative Projects incorporated entrepreneurial initiatives. self-evaluation tools have been new indicators to evaluate and assess the incorporated into the programme for impact of the projects selected, aimed at Finally, the whole process is the psychosocial care teams to help obtaining data on the impact on society complemented with annual visits to the them monitor their own work more produced by the programme in terms of projects at the start and the end of the effectively. the jobs created (paid personnel) in the programme in order to identify social organisation itself and also on the expectations, needs and improvements Regarding evaluation mechanisms mobilisation of volunteers, in this case to be made, as well as an annual related to non-specific beneficiaries, the quantifying the number of volunteers meeting of the coordination office team Science in Society programme has set and the number of hours devoted to and of the mentors in order to apply up a system that combines external beneficiaries. These data are in addition any improvements based on the advisors and experts and different to those obtained by the programme to evaluations carried out. methodologies to obtain qualitative date on the levels of well-being and information by directly observing the quality of life of the people attended, the The FBLC is also entitled to examine people visiting exhibitions, as well as improvement in the quantity and quality and audit, either directly or through setting up focus groups of experts that of the social actions carried out and the other entities assigned to this task, also include other agents such as support provided for the social third the use of the grants given to teachers, the general public and sector. implement a project. To this end, researchers in a format that has been programme participants must provide called the Innovation Laboratory, The programme has also improved the access to the necessary documentation encouraging them to make proposals requirements for the presentation of the and hold interviews and meetings with and suggestions. final report by the organisations involved, the auditors appointed. This guidance, with its website providing tools to help monitoring, follow-up and evaluation The International Division has a platform social organisations explain the workings of the whole process are essential to to systemise the control requirements for of the project and specify the coverage of the entrepreneurs’ learning process as external audits that must be carried out the activities in question, the goals and such processes help them specify goals on all NGOs under agreement with the results expected. and achieve the targets set. Foundation in order to review the finances of the cooperation projects For instance, the Social Entrepreneurism Another example is the programme of being supported. programme has developed several tools to Comprehensive care for people with qualitatively evaluate the support provided advanced diseases which employs The Foundation sees these mechanisms to those receiving grants as a means of different tools for monitoring and for evaluation and control as an exercise continuously improving the programme. control. The first is an online platform in transparency in its procedures. The for the programme. Control is also Scholarship programme, for example, On the one hand, an annual survey is carried out via clinical assistance publishes on its website the evaluation carried out that asks entrepreneurs to documentation, by holding annual and selection processes employed for the rate the different agents and support follow-up meetings and with personal applicants, procedures which follow involved in the project (training, visits throughout the different internationally recognised standards mentoring, office that coordinates the geographical areas where such contained in the Peer Review Guide programme and legal support). assistance is provided. Finally, an published by the European Science external audit is carried out of the Foundation. On the other hand, a qualitative finances and procedures. Regarding the evaluation is also carried out via a evaluation of the programme’s impact, Also relevant in 2014 were the surveys survey on all the entrepreneurs an annual effectiveness study has been carried out as part of the ICI project on regarding the relevance and quality of drawn up that measures the efficacy community harmony and intercultural synergies with other similar projects. of the psychosocial care provided and relations in areas with highly diverse Another evaluation dealt with which was improved with several cultures. These surveys, performed in Annual Report ”la Caixa” Banking Foundation 2014 104 Generating values and activities of ”la Caixa” Banking Foundation 2010 and 2012, helped FBLC to analyse social value associated with its projects. Of all the projects and programmes the project’s first phase of development With this aim, in 2014 specific tools were implemented, 78% have some means of in 2010, with 8,929 interviews and, in developed for programmes such as Let’s measuring effectiveness while 75% 2012, with 9,323 interviews, which talk about drugs to measure the impact measure both effectiveness and have helped to analyse the project’s of the programme on secondary school efficiency. Differences can be seen in the development over time and also provide students. three aspects measured by sphere of a comparative diagnosis of the state of action, with 100% of the projects from harmony and cohesion in the areas in The Volunteering programme has the educational area and more than 89% question. The plan is to also carry out renewed its website to incorporate an of social programmes having systems to this survey on the 24 new areas app that improves communication and a measure both effectiveness and incorporated within the project in 2015. feeling of belonging among all efficiency. In the same way that these surveys have volunteers. This tool makes it easier for evaluated the project in its first three any volunteer to choose the opportunities 89% of the projects in the social area years (2010-2013), this latest evaluation that best suit his or her areas of interest have systems to measure efficiency will also take place between 2016 and and in accordance with the needs of the whereas this is only the case for 50% 2017. social organisations and the Foundation’s of the programmes in the culture and programmes. This instrument is the science, research and environment areas. One of the goals of these evaluation consequence of a new action plan whose Similarly, 89% of the social projects have systems is to assess how far targets have mission is to encourage citizens to systems to measure impact while the been reached by measuring three criteria: become involved and volunteer for figure for research and environmental effectiveness, efficiency and impact. different kinds of action to help programmes is just 50% and only Measuring these three aspects allows transform local society and to boost the educational programmes have systems FBLC to ensure its management is drive and growth of volunteers related to to measure efficiency in 100% of the transparent, as well as increasing the the Foundation’s programmes. cases. NGO3.5 Measuring effectiveness, efficiency and impact Total Area of activity Research, Cases % Social Educational science and the Culture environment NG03.5 27 84.38 89.47% 100% 100% 50% NGO3.5 Measuring effectiveness, efficiency and impact Research, science Social Educational Culture and the environment NG03.5.1 89.47% 100% 50% 50% NG03.5.2 89.47% 66.67% 50% 50% NG03.5.3 78.95% 100% 75% 50% 105 Annual Report ”la Caixa” Banking Foundation 2014 The CaixaProinfancia and the needs and where there is an overlap managing each of these programmes CiberCaixa Let’s meet after class between organisations providing similar must set and establish diversity and programmes particularly stand out in services in the same zone. As a result, equality criteria in order to encourage not measuring these aspects, carrying out the programme is implemented in the only project efficiency but also equality. pilot schemes to encourage 24 areas that are deemed most More than 84% of the projects include networking. vulnerable. On the other hand, the the component of gender and diversity. size of the areas in relation with this The most widespread formula or In the case of the programme to redress classification has also been altered. mechanism to ensure attention to child poverty, CaixaProinfancia, this Taking such priorities into account diversity and gender, applied in 87.5% measurement forms part of the and with a view to the future, the of FBLC’s projects, is the principle of programme’s aim to extend social programme will focus all its efforts non-discrimination. action through coordinated work on attending to 153 priority zones. involving all the public and/or private A further 87.5% of the projects monitor institutions working with the families Work is being carried out via the the real equality of opportunities for in question; a formula that helps to CiberCaixa to detect and develop different people to take part in the improve the programme’s efficiency, talent and, for this project, specific programme and 50% of the projects effectiveness and impact wherever it’s training and guidance have been apply a positive discrimination policy, required. designed for educators, in 2014 thereby ensuring a degree of presence resulting in the start of the “You’ve and/or participation of the target The results of these pilot studies carried got Talent” experience in which three groups. Finally it should also be noted out in 2013 were announced in 2014 CiberCaixa are carrying out a pilot that more than 31% of FBLC’s projects (see pages 14 and 15). Other qualitative study of the design for a new directly tackle gender-specific issues; data have endorsed the comprehensive programme in the future. This i.e. the very purpose of the project is care approach proposed and started by experience has been supported by to resolve gender-based problems. In the programme. Significant the scientific management of the addition to the gender component, improvements have been detected in CaixaProinfancia programme and FBLC’s projects (71.88%) also include the procedures and models of social the consultancy firm Infonomia. other diversity-related factors to ensure action of the organisations involved, as equal opportunity. Among these kinds well as improvements in the community Another relevant example is the of factors often incorporated in the networks in the districts and increased evaluation of economic, social and projects are the following: disability, age social support, and also improved environmental impact of the Social (children, young people and the elderly) parenting skills in the families. These Entrepreneurism programme to and foreigners and/or immigrants. The impacts have been demonstrated via measure its efficiency by analysing most widespread formula for applying the data provided by parents, developments in the projects selected such factors, as in the case of gender professionals and key agents working in in the calls for applications in 2011 albeit to a lesser degree, is the the 11 cities and metropolitan areas and 2012 (see page 28). application of the principle of nonwhere the programme has been discrimination (90.6% of FBLC’s implemented. Integrating gender and diversity projects). It should be noted that 62.5% of FBLC’s projects directly tackle Finally, and as a result of this The Foundation considers factors problems related to diversity per se; assessment which began in 2010, the regarding gender and diversity to be key i.e. the very purpose of the project is programme has identified those components that must be integrated into to resolve problems related to diversity geographical areas with the greatest their programmes. Those in charge of and equal opportunities. Annual Report ”la Caixa” Banking Foundation 2014 106 Generating values and activities of ”la Caixa” Banking Foundation NGO4. Measures to integrate gender and diversity Total Area of activity Research, Cases % Social Educational science and the Culture environment % of projects NG04 including a gender and/or diversity 29 84.38 94.74 100 100 66.67 component % of projects NG04.1 including a gender 20 62.50 73.68 33.33 75 33.33 component % of projects NG04.2 including a diversity 24 75 89.47 33.33 75 50.00 component Projects 32 19 4 3 6 NGO4. Measures to integrate gender and diversity % Programmes Gender component Other diversity factors including (NGO4.1) (NGO4.2) NG04.1.1 NG04.2.1 Principle of non-discrimination 90.63 90.63 Non-discrimination NG04.1.2 NG04.2.2 and monitoring of equal 90.63 78.13 opportunities NG04.1.3 NG04.2.3 Apply positive 56.25 65.63 discrimination NG04.1.4 NG04.2.4 Tackle gender problems 31.25 62.50 directly 107 Annual Report ”la Caixa” Banking Foundation 2014 Several of FBLC programmes are projects to create jobs, support small complete balance between the groups noteworthy with regards to the businesses and firms that strengthen the of the 18,405 job placements occurring measures implemented in 2012 to weakened economic structures in in 2014, with 49% of these being for ensure integration of the gender and relatively under-developed countries in women and 51% for men. In this respect, diversity component. In general, gender which 60% of their beneficiaries (more 69% of all job placements carried out in and/or cultural diversity are included in than 143,000) are women. 2013 were for people who were all the Foundation’s programmes that marginalised, principally young people, take place in educational environments It has also been established that one of those over 45, female victims of gender(for example School CiberCaixa and the selection criteria for proposals should based violence, immigrants, etc., and CaixaProinfancia) and are constantly be the prioritisation of projects with 31% were people with some kind of present throughout the day-to-day explicit measures for gender equality, disability (physical, intellectual, sensory activity of the project/programme. while the gender and diversity or mental). It should also be noted that Exactly the same thing happens with the component is also present continuously 3% of all job placements achieved by cultural activities programmed at FBLC’s in the awareness-raising content provided the programme in 2014 were for female centres. Transferring knowledge and by the CaixaForum centres to familiarise victims of gender-based violence. promoting training in critical skills is people with the situation of the most carried out by programming a wide and vulnerable in developing countries The programme of Subsidies for Social diverse range of content and subjects, (women, less privileged groups, etc.). Initiative Projects includes, in its call for specifically designed to be accessible by applications, explicit references to lines of all kinds of people. This programming On the other hand, the work carried out action with particular attention to the also includes specific awareness-raising by cooperation organisations in components of gender and diversity. The activities aimed at encouraging values development programmes has also been priority of Social Action includes the of inclusion and fairness. One example aimed especially at empowering women prevention of different forms of violence, of these in 2014 was the collaboration living in developing countries and in a with the possibility of providing support with the Catalan Autism Federation to vulnerable situation. One example of this for projects related to gender-based hold a cycle of talks and films at special attention to the gender violence. The aim of the call for CaixaForum centres aimed at raising component has been the work carried applications for Intercultural and Social awareness of society via a proposal out over the last five years with eight Cohesion is to support projects that linking autism with creativity. The volunteers and a local NGO in promote equal treatment among people Science in Society programme has also Guatemala, supporting indigenous and intercultural harmony between introduced a new element to support women displaced by war. The actions citizens. visually impaired people to improve visits carried out included the start-up of a to exhibitions, as well as including issues microloan fund, helping to set up 44 The diversity component is essential related to equality in all the programme’s community banks managed by the to the Intercultural Community exhibition content. women themselves. Intervention project and is therefore fully integrated as from its design stage. This At the same time, the aim/mission of the As a result of their aims and universe of project encourages collaboration International Cooperation programme beneficiaries, other projects apply positive between social agents in a specific area concerns and includes both components gender discrimination, such as the where there is significant cultural of gender and diversity and these are Reincorpora programme in which the diversity, from both international therefore taken into account in the share of female participants (10%) in the immigration and internal migration, different development stages of the programme is higher than the share of and/or with immigrated or local programme. The programme’s rules also female prison inmates. minorities (gypsies, etc.), which poses contain the requirement that proposals new challenges and new opportunities include the necessary measures to Regarding the consideration of gender for social cohesion. promote decisive factors in development and diversity factors, the Incorpora policies, such as supporting more programme includes, in its definition of Coordination with the activities vulnerable sectors and groups and those goals and in all stages of the programme, and programmes of other actors affected by poverty, as well as a gender the job placement of people in a focus. As a result, cooperation projects vulnerable situation as one of its essential One of the main principles of action of are carried out whose aim is to promote values. In fact, it maintains almost FBLC is to create alliances and networks Annual Report ”la Caixa” Banking Foundation 2014 108 Generating values and activities of ”la Caixa” Banking Foundation among the Foundation’s programmes the Inter-American Development Bank Regarding the Volunteering programme, and its external collaborators so as to (IDB) while, in terms of notable alliances, in 2014 the Federation of ”la Caixa” fully capitalise on existing synergies. ISGlobal has become a strategic Volunteers (FASVOL) and the FBLC collaborator of the Business Alliance for jointly promoted, together with That’s why FBLC considers coordination Child Vaccination led and coordinated by Barcelona City Council, the city’s and collaboration to be essential in FBLC. ISGlobal, of which the Foundation candidature as the 2014 European order to prevent or reduce overlaps is a founding partner, aims to improve Volunteering Capital. In October it between programmes, as well as to the health and development of the most collaborated with the first Iberianidentify opportunities for other actors vulnerable people by generating, American Corporate Volunteering (from within the Foundation or external) managing, passing on and extending Congress (see page 24). The programme to participate, or to improve the efficacy knowledge. It has a long track record in has also started a series of collaboration of programmes themselves. One the field of mother and baby health and alliances across the rest of the example of this in 2014 was the contributes its experience in coordinating Foundation’s programmes so that revision of the rules for the programme the secretariat for the Decade of Vaccines volunteers can provide specific support of Subsidies for Social Initiative Collaboration together with the GAVI for social organisations by reinforcing Projects which incorporated the Alliance as well as its experience and and multiplying the work carried out recommendations of experts from knowledge in impact studies on by different programmes, social the third social sector in the conditions pneumococcal vaccines in Mozambique, organisations and the professionals for the different calls for applications providing this project with technical, working in them. during the year. These conditions scientific and academic content. already included the positive and In 2014 the Social Entrepreneurism preferential rating of projects that In the area of volunteering and programme was involved in the United coordinate with other agents from the cooperation, the Foundation has taken at Work programme led by Santa Casa same area with public administrations, part in the debates of EU Aid Volunteers de Misericordia in Lisbon and funded other social organisations and the to start up this European programme, by the European Commission. explicit backing of the local providing the viewpoint of corporate Collaborative ties have also been government. Thanks to this aim to volunteers. It also joined the International established with leading programmes secure as much complicity as possible Corporate Volunteering (ICV) Leadership in social entrepreneurism in Spain such between the different agents involved, Council in 2014 and became a as the Catalan government’s Social a new specific call for applications was collaborating partner of the Corporate Entrepreneurism initiative, added in 2014 in Valencia with the Volunteering initiative promoted by firms @emprensocial. collaboration of the regional as part of IMPACT 2030 (http://www. government. impact2030.com/home.html). The Foundation also participates in a range of projects and programmes All FBLC projects (100%) are linked to 46.88% of all the projects are involved carried out by other organisations. other initiatives (be it to other projects by in European and/or international It’s worth noting the Apropa Cultura the Foundation or to external initiatives). initiatives, such as the Science in Society project, a social and educational Specifically, over 81% of all the project, RRI Tools, to help promote the programme of cultural facilities in Foundation’s projects are directly linked concept of Responsible Research and Catalonia that encourages the to other internal projects and more than Innovation in society and involving over attendance and participation of users 90% of them also participate in external 20 different countries, as well as the in the programming and activities initiatives. Out of all the Foundation’s consolidation of the European Xplore of social centres. This programme projects, 68.75% have a stable Health project to produce benchmark currently covers 1,182 centres and collaborative relationship with external mod els for biomedicine research. Work 53 cultural facilities including the initiatives, on a continuous or regular was also carried out in 2014 on CaixaForum Barcelona, providing a basis. coordinating activities together with way of improving people’s access to the planetariums in Madrid and the events and activities programmed Among some of the alliances of note in Pamplona and with institutions such at the Foundation’s centres as well as 2014, at an international level, were the as the Museum of Human Evolution, establishing collaborations with other collaborations with the Fondazione the National Natural Science Museum facilities in the sector. Cariplo, the Aga Khan Foundation and and Prado Medialabs. 109 Annual Report ”la Caixa” Banking Foundation 2014 NGO6. Processes to take into account and coordinate with the activities of other actors Total Area of activity Research, Cases % Social Educational science and the Culture environment % of projects NG06 linked to other internal or external 32 100 100 100 100 100 activities % of projects NG06.1 coordinated with the Foundation's 28 87.50 84.21 100 75 100 internal projects % of projects NG06.2 participating in programmes or 30 93.75 94.74 100 75 100 initiatives Projects 32 19 4 3 6 Whenever possible FBLC also attempts to Other programmes such as Let’s Talk Another collaboration in 2014 was with coordinate the projects it carries out with About Drugs set up specific the association Connecta i Actua to other Foundation projects, improving collaborations in 2014 with the develop family dynamics, in which the efficiency as it can distribute resources organisation Proyecto Hombre to organisation holds parent workshops and take advantage of synergies between develop a new IT application. This tool on the prevention of drug addiction for different programmes. A good example can produce reports on the profiles of families with teenage children. Along of this is the CiberCaixa: Let’s stay after people with addiction problems and the same line are the collaborations class. In some towns this project is the aim is to improve knowledge on the with the prison of Can Brians coordinated together with activities profile of consumers and the current (Catalonia), providing sessions for related to the CaixaProinfancia status of drug addiction. This project the inmates, as well as collaboration programme and also with programmes has also involved the Ministry of Health, agreements signed with the Catalan implemented by the municipal social Social Services and Equality and the government’s departments of Education services in the towns in question. University Institute of Drug Addiction. and Health. Annual Report ”la Caixa” Banking Foundation 2014 110 Generating values and activities of ”la Caixa” Banking Foundation Institutional positioning and • Information is the second major radio and television concerning the communication in raising awareness objective. By publicising all its initiatives, initiatives and programmes carried out by the Foundation aims to extend the FBLC has maintained its leading position Considering FBLC’s activity, its strategy number of beneficiaries, attempting in the press, the medium recording the and communication and marketing to reach more people. most highly rated hits (33.4 million campaigns are very important as they euros). After the written word come the raise awareness of the Foundation and its • The third objective is to highlight the number of hits on television (valued at work among its stakeholders (particularly importance of ”la Caixa” customers 29.4 million euros) and on the radio beneficiaries) and society at large. The and employees as an essential part (24.5 million euros). On these three Foundation designs its communication of how the Foundation works. media, news items and mentions have and marketing campaigns with a threestabilised at over 18,000 hits a year. fold objective: In management terms, communication There has also been significant growth actions are carried out according to in online impact with 26,859 hits • Raise citizen awareness of people’s criteria of respect for sustainability and throughout 2014. foremost needs and problems, the environment, from planning through encouraging all receivers to become to implementation. Actual beneficiaries The economic value in 2014 of all this involved and committed to addressing are also involved in their development. presence and mentions in news items in these needs and problems. Overcoming Actions are guided by the objective of the mass media was over 87 (87.3) child poverty, helping those with efficiency, perceived as the maximum million euros in terms of the traditional difficulty find work, active ageing and return possible on the investment in media; namely press, television and radio, the full participation of the elderly in terms of raising awareness and increasing with additional hits on the internet, society, preventing the consumption of the number of beneficiaries. The impact valued at just under 80 (78.9) million drugs, etc. are some of the causes of these actions is duly measured and euros. The total value generated by the requiring everyone’s commitment. audited by companies specialising in news items published in different media Awareness-raising is therefore one of media tracking. is over 166 (166.2) million euros, whereas the ultimate reasons for the in 2013 this impact was estimated at 128 Foundation’s external communication, The economic value of news items and (127.8) million euros. advertising and marketing. reports published or issued by the press, 111 Annual Report ”la Caixa” Banking Foundation 2014 Commitment to people 114 Improving the welfare and skills of our employees and suppliers Improving the welfare and skills of our employees and suppliers Human capital of FBLC central services, CaixaForum Barcelona are initiated with a risk assessment of and CosmoCaixa Barcelona (9 members), the space and place of work. This is 2014 culminated with ”la Caixa” 1 personnel delegate for CaixaForum accompanied by the application of Foundation becoming ”la Caixa” Palma and 1 personnel delegate for preventive measures, the training of Banking Foundation, once again CaixaForum Madrid. This group the corresponding employees and the demonstrating the Entity’s commitment represents and manages queries received effective implementation of emergency to improving the working and social directly from workers in the organisation plans. conditions of all its employees, and is responsible for passing on to the promoting key actions in order to People and Strategy Area, at the monthly A management system has therefore achieve its institutional aims: to have or bimonthly meetings established, those been established by FBLC that allows policies and actions that promote the requirements and/or situations proposed it to continuously analyse the welfare and generation of new skills by employees they deem appropriate. preventative health measures of the of both employees and suppliers. The Furthermore, any incident of an urgent organisation. policies and measures that define and nature that might arise is dealt with govern the management of human immediately together with the People The Foundation currently works with capital at ”la Caixa” Banking and Strategy Area. an External Prevention Service Foundation (FBLC) are inherent to the (hereinafter EPS) that handles part of organisation and, at the same time, One important event in 2014 was the the preventive measures and provides emanate from its values and vision. success of the measure called the support in many other tasks related to The performance and promotion of “Hour Bank” to promote flexitime. prevention at ”la Caixa” Banking good practices in terms of work and This scheme has helped to adapt Foundation. gender equality, the search for equality employees’ timetables to the of pay, the development of skills, the requirements of their work-life balance The risks affecting FBLC employees vary encouragement to balance work and and has been used by part of the depending on their location and position family life, respect for human rights workforce without any significant (branches, single centres, exhibitions, and compliance with Spanish law are disruption to labour interaction or etc.). As well as this EPS, ”la Caixa” some of the principles that underpin employee productivity. Due to the Banking Foundation also has its own this management approach. positive reception of this system, it has management structure led by a Head been extended both in terms of time of Prevention whose main mission is to The organisation has its Own Collective and also the groups of employees it keep in regular contact with the Bargaining Agreement (hereinafter covers. company at all its organisational levels OCBA), which applies to all the Entity’s and act as the main intermediary with work centres. The eighth OCBA, which A new measure has also been agreed in the EPS. came into force on 1 January 2014, has the collective bargaining agreement to been modified and improved with a new improve work-life balance and flexitime The Foundation’s personnel are also labour agreement harmonising the with a pilot scheme that provides represented on the Health and Safety working conditions following the banking computer tools to work from home for Committee, a jointly representative transformation of “la Caixa”. The pregnant women during the two months and registered body set up to regularly agreement has a duration of two years, prior to the expected birth date and for review the company’s risk prevention which means that its clauses will be workers with reduced mobility but who activities. 100% of the Foundation’s effective until 31 December 2015. are able to work. employees are represented by this committee, which holds four ordinary A Joint Committee was set up Health and safety meetings per year. The health and safety comprising representatives of the aspects covered by formal agreements workforce and the institution, and is Health and safety is another important established with the unions at a local responsible for equality, conciliation, issue in terms of its impact on FBLC level are as follows: personal protection mediation and arbitration in those and on the stakeholders’ influence on equipment; joint health and safety cases the parties deem appropriate. decisions and analysis. Prevention of committees; participation of worker occupational risks is a good indicator representatives in inspections, audits The workers’ representatives are made of the extent of the organisation’s and investigations of accidents related up of the following: a joint committee involvement in the control of processes to health and safety; training and for the centres in Barcelona, namely and, regarding this matter, all processes education; complaints procedures, Annual Report ”la Caixa” Banking Foundation 2014 114 Commitment to people the right to reject dangerous work Lastly, another key issue in the area the Foundation’s criteria. By means of and regular inspections. The formal of health and safety is the health this additional service, FBLC can make agreements reached at a global level of the people who visit FBLC’s sure that its suppliers and partners also cover the following aspects: different venues and travelling establish preventive actions in terms of compliance with the International exhibitions every day. The Foundation occupational risks, and is able to check Labour Organisation (ILO), agreements has specific procedures aimed at the work methods they use and the kind or structures to resolve problems and ensuring an appropriate level of care of occupational risks they face at the commitments related to targets or the for visitors in terms of safety. It also workplace. level of practical training to be applied. regularly works with all employees and suppliers from the different sites In 2014 the health and safety training It should also be noted that the in order to implement any necessary required by law was provided via the stipulations of the Foundation’s health measures to make their venues safer website Virtaula (online classroom). and safety plans include the need to for visitors. This covered almost 95% of the staff coordinate actions with the different and the assessments and the results were contract workers who work at FBLC In 2014 a lot of emphasis was put on validated by the EPS. sites on a daily basis and whose health reactivating the business coordination and safety conditions vary depending platform, CTAIMA CAE, not only A mandatory health check was also on their jobs, whether they are drivers, updating what was started in 2013 but offered to all staff through the health workers hired for travelling exhibitions also hiring an external company to verify monitoring service. or workers based permanently at each the documentation uploaded by centre. contractors on the platform, applying G4-LA6. Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days and absenteeism and total number of work-related fatalities, by region and by gender(1) 2014 2013 2012 Women Men Women Men Women Men Total Work Accidents(2) 2 0 2 1 2 1 Total Common Contingencies 53 6 63 16 58 7 Total Absenteeism 55 6 65 17 59 18 Injury rate 2.5 0 1,1 0 2.2 0 Lost day rate(3) 0.1 0.2 n.d. n.d. 0.2 0 Incident rate 5.8 0 5.7 2.8 4 0 (1) Total common contingencies: number of people on temporary sick leave due to disease during the year. Total absenteeism: number of people absent from their workplace due to any kind of incapacity, not only as a result of an occupational accident or disease. Authorised absences are not included under absenteeism, such as those for holidays, studies or parental leave. Injury rate: (number of accidents with sick leave / number of hours worked) x 106; Lost day rate: (number of days lost / number of hours worked) x 103; Incident rate: (number of accidents / number of workers) x 103. (2) Includes both accidents in itinere and not in itinere. Of the accidents which occurred in 2012, only the case of one woman was not in itinere. (3) The total hours worked has been estimated based on the total hours established in the agreement multiplied by the total number of employees (female and male) n/a: not available. Equality Plan of Act 3/2007 of 22 March on the quality of life and health at work. Also, effective equality of men and women. one of the main objectives of this Plan is The FBLC advocates equal opportunities The main difference between both plans to promote and consolidate equal and the equal treatment of men and lies in their objective. Whereas the opportunities in the workplace through women. 2009-2011 plan consisted of a set of training and raising awareness of this issue measures seeking to guarantee the among employees. This is especially aimed The Equality Plan 2012-2015, which equality of treatment and opportunities at executives and middle management replaces the 2009-2011 plan, embodies for men and women, the 2012-2015 given their broad and autonomous FBLC’s commitment to its employees and plan focuses more on consolidating the decision-making powers concerning the its respect for diversity. It’s part of its results achieved rather than promoting development of their staff. corporate philosophy and seeks to new measures. Specifically, it aims to comply with current legislation and, help improve the working environment, The Plan covers all employees of the more specifically, with the provisions work relationships, employee satisfaction, Foundation and is in force for four years, 115 Annual Report ”la Caixa” Banking Foundation 2014 after which time it’s reviewed to • The flexible remuneration plan was treatment of women and men while determine new lines for improvement. It’s fully implemented, allowing each promoting management for the effective also intended to become an effective tool professional to design their integration of diversity. for working towards equality between remuneration package in line with men and women within the organisation their personal needs. As a result of all these efforts, in 2012 and an Equality Committee has been set the Ministry of Health, Social Services up to this end whose main role is to • Lastly, various indicators were also and Equality in the Workplace renewed ensure the Equality Plan is observed. This observed in order to improve and its excellence award for “Equality in the Committee also plays an active role in all monitor the success of measures for Workplace” for the FBLC. This distinction the organisation’s processes, acting as a gender equality within the Foundation. acknowledges the organisation’s channel for any incidents or queries These indicators include: percentage of innovative nature as well as its regarding non-discrimination related to women within the Entity; percentage of commitment and engagement in policies gender. The Equality Committee meets women in decision-making positions; fostering equal opportunities between every six months and is made up of two percentage of employees taking part in men and women. staff representatives and two training sessions dealing with equality; representatives from the company. The and the percentage of men hired for Lastly, it should also be noted that, prior Equality Committee also carries out an executive and general positions, among to developing the 2012-2015 and annual evaluation of the Plan by assessing others. 2009-2011 Equality Plans, the Foundation the achievement of its objectives, the had already carried out several initiatives implementation of measures and the The Foundation also continued to in this field, many of them pre-dating the sampling of diagnostic indicators. implement its Protocol for the prevention, Equality Act. Specifically, it had management and eradication of sexual conducted several actions and projects at During the third year of this Plan, namely and workplace harassment. Since its different times, all aimed at promoting 2014, several measures in the area of creation and to this date, the and raising awareness on this particular equality continued to be applied: organisation is not aware of any cases of issue both internally and externally. moral, sexual, gender or discriminatory A good example of this would be the • An increase in the number of people harassment. Also in 2014 the Violence: zero tolerance and the covered by FBLC’s “Hour Bank” organisation continued its dissemination Incorpora programmes. flexitime measure, going from 5.2% and training of good practices by in 2013 to 22.05% in 2014, with 75 employees through the Manual of Good Key indicators in the field of human employees joining and 832 being Practices, written in 2011. This manual resources made more flexible. was written and published by the Persons Area in conjunction with the In 2014 FBLC’s workforce consisted of • Extension of the measures to ensure a Environmental and Organisation and 347 professionals. 99.5% of these work-life balance via paid leave, unpaid General Services Areas. The main purpose employees were on a permanent contract leave and flexible start and finish times. of this manual is to raise awareness of and 97.6% of them were employed on a The organisation’s new variable good work practices among employees. It full-time basis. Women account for remuneration policy was monitored includes sections such as “Situations 68.8% of the organisation’s total via indicators and an analysis to ensure given special attention” and “Integration workforce compared with 31.2% for equality in the variable remuneration to diversity”, which aim to make men, while 99.5% of FBLC employees of men and women. employees aware of the issue of equal work in Spain. Annual Report ”la Caixa” Banking Foundation 2014 116 Commitment to people G4-10. Breakdown of the workforce by gender, employment contract and employment type 2014 2013 2012 (%) (%) (%) Total Of total Male Female Total Of total Male Female Total Of total employees employees employees Total number of employees 347 100 112 235 350 100.00 107 243 381 100.0 Indefinite or permanent 345 99.4 107 238 341 99.71 104 237 379 99.5 contract Contracts of a specific 2 0.6 2 0 1 0.29 0 1 5 0.5 or temporary duration Full-time employees 342 98.5 106 236 341 97.43 105 236 372 97.6 Part-time employees 5 1.4 2 3 9 2.57 2 7 9 2.4 Men 112 32.2 – – 108 30.85 – – 119 31.12 Women 235 68.8 – – 242 69.15 – – 262 68.8 Spain 345 99.4 108 237 349 99.71 107 242 379 99.5 Outside Spain 2 0.6 0 2 1 0.29 0 1 2 0.5 Indefinite or Total number permanent of employees contract Women 67.7% 68.9% Men 32.2% 31% As shown by the breakdown of Indicators assessing employee turnover, The values obtained for these indicators workforce indicators by contract and length of service in the organisation and are an example and reflection of the employment type, the promotion and absenteeism, as well as the rate of returning importance of human capital to FBLC and provision of stable employment, the to work and retention of employees after the effort invested by the organisation into quality of jobs and their maintenance parental leave also reflect the level of maintaining and improving the working all form part of FBLC’s corporate stability of the workforce and the workers’ environment, as well as the satisfaction culture. degree of commitment to the organisation. and motivation of its employees. Dones Homes 117 Annual Report ”la Caixa” Banking Foundation 2014 The breakdown by length of service and gender is as shown in the following table: Other indicators of diversity and equality of opportunities 2014 (at 31/12/2014) 2013 2012 Men Women Men Women Men Women Length of service (no. and %) (no. and %) (%) (%) (%) (%) Under 5 years 16-4.6 22-6.3 45 55 31 69 Between 5 and 9 years 21-6.5 45-13 33 67 37 63 Between 10 and 14 years 19-5.5 69-19.9 20 80 22 78 Between 15 and 19 years 25-7.2 43-12.4 31 69 36 64 Between 20 and 24 years 22-6.3 37-10.7 34 66 39 61 Between 25 and 29 years 6-1.7 9-2.6 40 60 47 53 30 years 3-0.9 10-2.9 20 80 17 83 With regard to the turnover rate, an activity and, going into more detail, by consistent with the current economic indicator that provides relevant data on age and/or gender. In fact the values context. It is within this context that the employee satisfaction, potential obtained for the turnover rate are still workforce has been restructured, now imbalances that might arise due to age, negative given that the number of hired totalling 347 people, 3 fewer than in gender, etc., and the company’s capacity people was lower than the number of 2013 when the restructuring programme to attract and retain skilled people, FBLC people leaving the company, mainly due started. Also the rate of new hires was had lower turnover rates than in 2012, to the reorganisation process currently 2.57%, up by 1.7 points in 2014 on the both in general terms and by field of affecting the ”la Caixa” Group, previous year. G4-LA1. number and rates of new employee hires and average employee turnover, by age group and gender 2014 (workforce at 2013 2012 31/12/2014) Total Total Total Total turnover New hires Total turnover New hires Total turnover (%) (%) (%) Total number of employees 347 350 381 Turnover rate 0.56 –3 –4.46 Rate of new hires 7.20 2.57 Men 0.28 2.30 –1 0.57 –0.52 Women 0.28 4.80 –2 2 –3.94 Aged < 30 0.00 0.20 0 0 –0.26 Aged 30-40 0.56 2.50 0 0.86 –0.26 Aged 41-50 0.00 2.10 0.1 1.43 –0.26 Aged > 50 0.00 2.01 –3.1 0.28 –4.72 Annual Report ”la Caixa” Banking Foundation 2014 118 Commitment to people G4-LA3. return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender Workforce at 31/12/2014 Total Rate Men Rate Women Rate Total number of employees 347 100% 112 32.3% 235 67.7% Total number of employees entitled 16 4.6% 2 1.8% 14 5.9% to parental leave Number of employees that took parental 16 4.6% 2 1.8% 14 5.9% leave Number of employees who returned 16 4.6% 2 1.8% 14 5.9% to work after parental leave Number of employees who returned to work after parental leave and who 10 2.9% 0 0 10 4.2% were still employed twelve months after their return to work As part of the banking transformation Foundation’s staff was carried out and, The different professional categories process in 2014 there has been an based on the results, the structure of and levels of employees are defined and internal reorganisation in order to the management team was modified described in the OCBA. It also states simplify the organisation and achieve in the last year. FBLC’s current the tasks expected for each level and greater efficiency in the Foundation. As management team is made up of 47 the skills, knowledge and experience a result, and in order to respond to this people: 22 women (46.8%) and 25 (professional profile) required to carry reorganisation, a talent appraisal of the men (53.2%). them out. G4-LA12. Breakdown of employees per employee category according to gender, age group, minority group membership and other indicators Workforce at 31/12/2014 Total Aged Aged Aged Aged Men Women number < 30 30-40 41-50 > 50 Total number of employees 347 112 235 6 101 162 78 Directors (level D) 15 11 4 0 1 8 6 Heads (level C) 83 36 47 0 10 45 28 Managers (level B) 216 57 159 1 74 104 37 Management support (level A) 33 8 25 5 16 5 7 A skills appraisal is carried out regularly these objectives and actions have been system consisting of a fixed and a with more than 85% of the workforce. achieved is reviewed and evaluated variable part, as well as other corporate The next skills assessment is planned during the first few months of the benefits. The fixed pay of employees is for 2015. However, although there are year. established by the OCBA and is not skills assessments every year, determined by their aptitude, employees must meet annually with Remuneration systems responsibilities, degree of autonomy their supervisors in order to establish and the professional tasks required by objectives and actions to improve their ”la Caixa” Banking Foundation their position as defined in the system performance. The extent to which employees enjoy a remuneration of professional groups and categories. 119 Annual Report ”la Caixa” Banking Foundation 2014 Regarding variable remuneration, in 2014 complementing the feedback given at their personal and family requirements at the new objective-based variable pay the skills assessment. any given time. system continued to be applied, first implemented in 2013 for all FBLC Area directors are responsible for As a result of all these measures, no employees. This new objective-based informing employees about the objectives differences exist between genders at the variable remuneration system seeks to: for their area and for estimating the same level in the remuneration policies bonus for each person according to of FBLC; in other words, the basic salary • Direct the employee’s time and effort annual targets. They then set the of men and women in the different towards specific objectives that are in deadlines and criteria for evaluating these professional groups/levels is the same. It line with the organisation’s strategic objectives, which must be approved by should also be noted that the minimum objectives. the HR department. At the end of the pay (standard entry salary) of the year, the achievement of these objectives Foundation’s employees, which is • Increase the degree of objectivity of the is assessed and the objectives and bonus established by the OCBA, is approximately variable pay, moving from a bonus for the following year are set. 2.5 times higher than the Spanish annual based on subjective reasons to a variable minimum wage for 2014. pay system based on the achievement The flexible compensation plan, which of concrete objectives set in advance. was implemented in 2013 in order to A skills appraisal is carried out regularly offer employees the chance to voluntarily with more than 85% of the workforce. • Acknowledge and reward those choose how to receive part of their The next skills assessment is planned for individuals that achieve efficiency and wages, had a greater impact in 2014. 2015. However, although there are not high performance so as to encourage This remuneration includes a range of skills assessments every year, employees their colleagues to achieve the same. products such as training, employee must meet annually with their supervisors health insurance, family health insurance, in order to establish objectives and • Ensure that employees are given nurseries, transport tickets and the actions to improve their performance. feedback from their supervisors purchase of computers. Each of the The extent to which these objectives and regarding their performance so they products is governed by specific actions have been achieved is reviewed can make improvements in those cases requirements which allow employees to and evaluated during the first few where this is deemed necessary, thereby choose the most suitable product for months of the year. G4-LA13. Relationship between the basic salary of men compared with women, by employee category, by significant locations of operation Workforce at 31/12/2014 Ratio Ratio Total Number Number Remuneration of basic between number of men (M) of women (F) ratio [R] salary [R]/[BS] (F/M) Total % Total % Total % [BS] (F/M) Men Women Total number of employees 347 100.0% 112 32.3% 235 67.7% – – – – Directors (level D) 15 4.3% 11 3.2% 4 1.2% 1 1.18 1.75 2.06 Heads (level C) 83 23.9% 36 10.4% 47 13.5% 1 0.98 1.12 1.10 Managers (level B) 216 62.2% 57 16.4% 159 45.8% 1 0.96 1.09 1.04 Management support (level A) 33 9.5% 8 2.3% 25 7.2% 1 1.36 0.88 1.20 Annual Report ”la Caixa” Banking Foundation 2014 120 Commitment to people Training learning platform “Virtaula”, holding 17 Company benefits training classes amounting to 556 hours, ”la Caixa” Banking Foundation considers of which 417 correspond to women The FBLC provides all its employees with training to be an essential factor in the (75%) and 139 to men (25%). The the same company benefits regardless of professional and personal growth of its platform has been accessed a total of the duration of their contract or working workforce. During 2014, 96.8% of all 2,551 times. Two training sessions hours. These benefits were reviewed as employees from the different professional addressed the subject of equality. 2014 part of the publication of the eighth categories received training, with the also saw all staff enrolling in the OCBA in 2014-2015. investment in training totalling compulsory training sessions on the approximately 208,000 euros. All staff health and safety and the prevention of The main corporate improvements are as training is provided by FBLC’s People and money laundering, as well as learning follows: Strategy Area, which also manages all groups in the area of scholarships, the training requests. The number of courses international area and the international • Increase in flexitime (start/finish times, assigned to each employee and their exchange programme entitled “Tiepolo”. greater use of shorter intensive work content depends on the employee’s In the future this platform aims to days) position and duties. become the main development tool for FBLC employees as they can access it • Reduction of annual hours to 1,117. In general the workforce has a high level from any computer irrespective of their of training in line with its functions and location. • Hour bank: increase of the number tasks. Approximately 73% of FBLC of hours each quarter. employees have a minimal level of Of the 113 training activities carried out training equivalent to degree and/or in 2014 by FBLC, the following were • Co-responsibility measures: diploma studies, of which 27% have particularly significant: group training also taken postgraduate courses and sessions on change management –O  ne week paid leave for mothers 5% a doctorate. techniques, training sessions on IT tools when they share maternity leave specific to the Foundation, training with their partner in the last two The FBLC identifies the needs of its in the fields of cultural and financial weeks of the leave. employees by means of different methods. management, technology training On the one hand is the skills assessment sessions and sessions on patents. This – Increase in paternity leave of five system which allows supervisors to assess is in addition to the aforementioned days for fathers. the skills of their employees individually training via Virtaula. through conversation. Then both parties • Remote working: pilot scheme rate the worker’s professional skills and Similarly, and continuing FBLC’s providing IT tools for pregnant women decide on the best course of action to commitment to advancing its model of to work from home during the last develop these further. This can involve work-life balance for its employees, it two months prior to the expected date specific technical training, the training of took part in a workshop organised by the of birth and for staff with reduced certain skills or mentoring or individual Ministry of Health, Social Services and mobility but who are able to work. support activities. There’s also a form on Equality in order to strengthen and apply the corporate intranet to request specific new equality and co-responsibility • Payment of 100% of salary in cases training which employees can apply for if measures, as well as to share and get to of maternity leave or temporary they so wish and which the management know new practices that can be applied incapacity leave. approves. to ”la Caixa” Foundation. • Greater contribution to the pension Specific development and skill-focused Also, with the aim of encouraging scheme. programmes are also designed at the continued learning and the improvement request of Area Directors, in order to of skills, FBLC offers training and/or • Insurance for survivors’ benefits in the address any needs that may arise from support courses to its employees so they event of loss of spouse or parents. the implementation of changes. can improve their skills through internal training courses (office IT and languages), • Healthcare insurance cover. In 2014 work continued on the universal provides funding for external training development and training of all and/or education and encourages • Subsidies for training and language employees via the virtual interactive attendance at congresses and seminars. courses, advances, nursery vouchers for 121 Annual Report ”la Caixa” Banking Foundation 2014 children aged 0-3 and education aids for necessary, compensation for the use of namely Territorial Action managers and children aged 4-23, family allowances. the employee’s own vehicle. personnel below C1 level who might use their own vehicles to carry out work tasks • Retirement bonus, childbirth/foster • Restaurant vouchers and parental on a regular basis. care/legal adoption allowance, bonuses leave. when reaching 25 and 35 years of The coverage of the organisation’s service within the organisation, The only exception is the subsidy for obligations due to its corporate benefit collective workplace accident insurance, workers using their own vehicle, as this plans is shown in the table below: provision of uniforms whenever item is related to a specific position, G4-EC3. Coverage of the organisation’s defined benefit plan obligations En euros 2014 2013 2012 2011 Contributions to pension plans 565,826.29 520,739 490,000 481,000 Contributions to life insurance 76,701.36 9,849 11,560 10,801 Contributions to medical insurance 154,334.74 – 160,000 160,000 As a result of the harmonisation the participant certain financial rights period of time prior to their retirement, if agreement on 9 September 2014 and in related to the enjoyment of the benefits their position allows. Alternatively they relation to FBLC’s pension fund, all active provided. can enjoy 15 extra days off, including 2 employees of ”la Caixa” Banking Saturdays. Foundation who have been with the 4. Integration within a pension fund: Foundation for two years are entitled to all contributions and any other assets Active employees with a minimum service join a group pension scheme with assigned to the plan are compulsorily of one year at FBLC can also benefit from contributions shared between the integrated into a pension fund. life insurance with an insured capital sum company and the employee. This of €36,060.73, which covers the contribution is 5% of the basic salary plus As part of this same agreement, the contingencies of death from illness and the personal dedication supplement, creation of a risk allowance in the event permanent total disability, regardless of excluding all other supplements existing of incapacity, loss of spouse or loss of whether this has been caused by a in ”la Caixa” Banking Foundation parents has also been approved, being common illness or accident. The insured regardless of their origin. The universally applicable to all active sum amounts to €72,121.45 in the event contribution made by employees is employees of ”la Caixa” Banking that death is caused by an accident. 70% 1.00%. The conditions of this Pension Foundation. The benefit and calculation of the insurance fee is paid by FBLC with Scheme are set out in its regulations. of the supplement are regulated by the the remaining 30% being paid by the Pension Scheme’s new rules which came employee. Taking out the life insurance The principles of the scheme are: into force on 16 October 2014. This new regulated by this clause is voluntary and allowance for incapacity, loss of spouse employees are therefore required to express 1. Non-discrimination: all employees and loss of parents will be automatically in writing their desire to take it out. working for associate sponsors are applicable as soon as the person starts in granted access to the plan as long as they their position. Lastly, the ”la Caixa” Banking Foundation meet all the requirements, although provides free health cover for all active service of over two years cannot be a The programmes implemented by FBLC employees who’ve been with the requirement to join the plan. to support its employees in managing the company for at least six months through final stages of their professional career group healthcare insurance run by 2. Capitalisation: the pension scheme should also be mentioned. These include ADESLAS. uses financial and actuarial individual a retirement bonus which is given to all capitalisation systems and benefits will be members of FBLC’s workforce (equalling Work-life balance strictly adjusted according to the the sum of three months’ wages from calculation derived from these systems. their gross annual salary) and improved ”la Caixa” Banking Foundation is flexibility of working hours for those who committed to the welfare of its 3. Allocation of rights: the are close to retirement. In addition to the employees and that’s why striking a contributions made by the participants latter, employees aged 63 and above can balance between work and family life is and the capitalisation system used grant have shorter workdays for a specific so profoundly important to the Annual Report ”la Caixa” Banking Foundation 2014 122 Commitment to people organisation. Through the Óptima Employees at the ”la Caixa” Banking • Ensuring supplements to receive Social programme and its Equality Plan, FBLC Foundation can make their working Security up to 100% for maternity. has undertaken a commitment to hours more flexible on a half-yearly constantly improve the conditions basis using the number of hours • Increasing maternity leave by two days. affecting this balance. The culmination to specified above. Workers must make up this commitment was when the for these hours within the same quarter • Increasing the breastfeeding period. Foundation was given the Equality and always within the limits of the Distinction, awarded by the Ministry of current schedule of the FBLC – between • Improving the work timetable during Health, Social Services and Equality. FBLC 8.00am and 7.15pm from Monday to the 20-month period after the birth of applies measures and initiatives that go Thursday and 8.00am to 4.00pm on a child. Providing parents with a flexible beyond the provisions of the law in this Friday. work timetable during the first two area, aimed at helping its employees to months after the birth of a child. balance their professional and family life. In addition to the Hour Bank and In 2012 the “Hour Bank” was retirement programmes mentioned • Giving all those working at the implemented as a new flexibility measure above, FBLC also carries out the Foundation with children a school and, currently, within the framework of following actions and initiatives: subsidy per child. the negotiation of the Foundation’s eighth Collective Bargaining Agreement, • School subsidy (nursery voucher). • Giving family aid in cases of dependence. it has been improved with the number of hours that can be worked flexibly being • Subsidies for caring for dependent • Providing parents with disabled children increased. This measure is applicable to relatives. with a reduced work timetable. all FBLC employees. The Hour Bank means that FBLC employees have a • Possibility to use flexi-time for starting • Leave for voluntary work. certain number of flexible hours available and finishing times. every half year that can be distributed within the Foundation’s standard working • Availability of an intensive work day. More specifically, these hours and timetable on Fridays. periods are organised as follows: from January to June: 38 hours; and from • Adopting an intensive work timetable 1 2 3 4 5 6 during the three months of summer. 9 10 September to December: 22 hours. 123 Annual Report ”la Caixa” Banking Foundation 2014 Commitment to the environment 126 Minimising our impact on the environment Minimising our impact environment and, aware of its informing all stakeholders (workers, on the environment importance, the Foundation accepts this clients, suppliers, subcontractors, challenge for the future, undertaking to institutions, etc.) in order to “la Caixa” Banking Foundation’s do the following: familiarise them with our commitment towards society and citizens environmental policy and establish includes the need to protect and respect • To adapt our environmental cooperative relations with them. the environment in which we live and management to our situation and carry out our work. This respect for and organisational culture, implementing Environmental Management System protection of the environment is the necessary processes to continually embodied in the work we do through improve our environmental FBLC’s objectives and commitments to our specific activity programmes, such as performance and reduce the possible the environment are based on its the programme to conserve natural areas impacts that may arise from the activity environmental policy, embodied in its and social reintegration and the ClimaDat and all the internal processes. Environment Manual. This Manual programme, the worldwide network establishes the structure for FBLC’s for climate and climate change • To adopt the necessary measures Environmental Management System measurement, research and education, to guarantee compliance of all (EMS) and manages the maintenance and in the sustainability forums at the environmental regulations applicable to of FBLC’s centres. Palau Macaya. This can also be seen, the activities carried out at our centres and is reaffirmed, by the Foundation’s (both at a local level and also the level Since 2009 CosmoCaixa Barcelona has commitment and its mission to achieve of autonomous community, state and had the Environmental Management sustainable development by constantly Europe), as well as activities related to System ISO 14001 certification and that improving environmental management any agreements taken out. of European Regulation EMAS II. In at throughout the organisation. March 2012 FBLC was granted • To regularly define and revise the certification for its Environmental Environmental policy objectives and targets to be met by our Management System for its main work environmental policy. centres: the headquarters of FBLC ”la Caixa” Banking Foundation has (Central Services), CaixaForum (Barcelona, implemented an Environmental • To train, raise awareness and involve Madrid, Palma, Lleida and Tarragona) and Management System at its headquarters each worker, engaging them in our also EspacioCaixa (Madrid and Murcia). and also at CosmoCaixa Madrid, environmental management, and to CaixaForum centres (Barcelona, Madrid, pass our environmental guidelines on FBLC has established a plan for the Palma, Lleida and Tarragona) and to suppliers and subcontracted firms. System, which meets the requirements EspacioCaixa centres (Madrid and of the ISO 14001: 2004 standard and is Murcia), CosmoCaixa Barcelona being • To protect the environment and in line with its strategy, carrying out the the first centre to be granted an ISO prevent contamination by sustainably following tasks: 14001 certificate and certified under using natural resources, efficiently the EMAS European Regulation in 2009. using water and energy and • Identifying those processes that are encouraging the practices of reducing, necessary for the EMS and for its The FBLC undertakes to carry out its reusing and recycling waste. application within the organisation. activities with maximum respect for the environment and applying particular care • To encourage communication • Identifying all requirements, both legal of and sensitivity towards protecting the applying criteria of transparency and and any others, concerning the system Annual Report ”la Caixa” Banking Foundation 2014 126 Commitment to the environment and the implications these • Jesús Nemesio Arroyo González, internal audits. During 2014 no such requirements have for environmental Director of the Marketing and review was carried out. factors. Communication Area. Since 2011, FBLC has also managed the • Identifying all environmental issues • Rosa Maria Cirera Clotet, Director of Gardens of Cap Roig as a result of the caused by FBLC’s activity and the Organisation and Information ”la Caixa” Group acquiring Caixa Girona processes. Systems Area. in November 2010. However, the Cap Roig Gardens are being managed • Determining all necessary criteria and • Marta Vallejo Rodríguez, Assistant according to the special plan for the methods that will ensure the efficient Director of the Regional Action Area. protection of the natural environment operation and control of these and landscape of Cap Roig Castle. processes. • Enric Banda Tarradellas, Director of the Specifically, the main aim of this Special Area for Science and Environment. Plan is to ensure work continues to • Guaranteeing the availability of all conserve the heritage and to carry out necessary resources and information The Environment Committee is in cultural activities in a way that is to support the operation and the charge of the following: implementing, compatible with the overall objectives to monitoring of these processes. maintaining and evaluating the preserve the natural environment and effectiveness of the EMS, analysing countryside established therein. • Monitoring, measuring and analysing the results and progress achieved and these processes. annually defining the environmental The environmental commitment made goals and action plan to achieve these by external suppliers should also be • Implementing all necessary actions in accordance with the significant highlighted. This has been entered into to achieve the results planned and environmental aspects of the activities. voluntarily by the suppliers of FBLC to continuously improve these centres with an EMS or where such a processes. Implementing the EMS has helped to system is currently being implemented. identify the consumption of natural The services provided by these suppliers Every year FBLC develops and documents resources and emissions as the most fall within the scope of the regulations the planning of environmental goals relevant environmental aspects related governing the maintenance of these through its Environment Committee. to FBLC’s activity (and those of its centres. By taking on this commitment, These planned goals include common visitors, users and suppliers). This suppliers demonstrate their willingness objectives that all centres are required to system also ensures regulatory to carry out their business while meet. compliance in the environmental area complying with the environmental and enables the systematic and regular requirements established by “la Caixa” The Environment Committee, set up on monitoring of consumption with a Banking Foundation. 29 October 2008, is made up of the view to continuously improving the heads of different organisational areas management of all environmental Minimising environmental impact: related to environmental management. aspects. indicators, actions and initiatives Specifically, at 31 December 2014, it was made up of: As part of the continual improvement FBLC’s environmental actions are not only process, FBLC regularly evaluates the focused on the responsible management • Àngel Font, Director of the Human effectiveness of the system through the of its consumption of resources but also Resources Area. Environment Committee and also regular on managing the waste it generates 127 Annual Report ”la Caixa” Banking Foundation 2014 while carrying out its projects. The main Main consumption and printing consumables, water and aim of this is to minimise and, as far as The most significant environmental electricity. possible, neutralise the environmental impacts generated by FBLC, in terms of footprint of its work. volume, are those resulting from paper G4-EN1(1). Materials used by weight or volume G4-EN2. Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials G4-EN3. Energy consumption within the organisation G4-EN8. Total water withdrawal by source U 2014 2013 Paper (kg) 12,175.00 14,467.00 Total paper consumed (kg) 12,175.00 14,467.00 Recycled paper as a proportion of the total (kg) 60.00 71.30 G4-EN1 Potato starch bags (kg) n/a n/a Paper bags (kg) n/a 200.00 Publications–Catalogues (kg) n/a 10,432.00 Publications–Leaflets (kg) n/a 260,750.00 G4-EN2 All recycled materials used (kg) 7,305.00 9,400.00 Total energy consumption within the organisation (GJ) 81,091.07 87,742.00 G4-EN3 Natural gas (non-renewable energy)(2) (GJ) 1,815.1 2,433.00 Electricity (GJ) 79,275.89 85,309.00 Water (m )3 43,948.03 52,905.00 G4-EN8 Total water consumed (municipal supply) (m ) 3 43,948.03 52,905.00 (1) Consumption included from the following centres: Headquarters, CaixaForum (Barcelona, Madrid, Palma, Girona, Lleida, Tarragona and Zaragoza), CosmoCaixa Barcelona, EspacioCaixa centres (Madrid, Murcia, Girona and Palau Macaya) and the Esplais, unless otherwise specified. (2) The CosmoCaixa Barcelona and the CaixaForum in Barcelona, Madrid and Zaragoza, are the only FBLC centres that consume natural gas. n/a: not available. The FBLC has undertaken to implement • To reduce the consumption of print in emissions, recommend reducing the measures during 2015 to reduce toners. number of pages in publications, reducing emissions of greenhouse gases from the density of the paper used, increasing consumables and business travel. These • To avoid travel to attend meetings and the use of recycled paper and substituting measures are: to encourage alternative solutions such physical formats with electronic formats, as videoconferences. among other measures. Other • To continue reducing the production recommendations include double-sided of printed brochures and catalogues • To offset emissions that cannot be printing by default and the reusing of paper and replace them with electronic avoided through Clean CO2. that has only been printed on one side. publications. The last few years have seen a gradual As an environmental good practice, a • To reduce the consumption of paper reduction in the production of catalogues reduction in print toners is also and predominantly favour the use of and brochures. Proposals to maintain these recommended, reducing the number recycled over new paper. levels, which represent a significant saving whenever possible. To this end, it has Annual Report ”la Caixa” Banking Foundation 2014 128 Commitment to the environment been proposed that low-consumption promoting the reduction of the number Emissions printing modes be used on printers and of journeys, encouraging remote FBLC’s aim is to reduce its emissions of that Laser toners be used in preference to meetings online and giving priority, as far greenhouse gases and therefore reduce Inkjet toners as the former generate as possible, to travel using public its carbon footprint. Consequently the fewer emissions than the latter. transport. Foundation strives to improve environmental management at its centres In 98% of the cases, FBLC produces its Finally, the water consumed by FBLC by implementing measures to identify publications, communications and comes from the use of bathrooms by and quantify their electricity and energy publicity on ecological paper endorsed by employees and visitors to its centres as consumption so that trends in the FSC (the Forest Stewardship Council) well as from cleaning, catering and consumption and emissions can be or the PEFC (the Programme for the irrigation services, depending on the described and measures identified and Endorsement of Forest Certification). centre. The water consumed is taken implemented to improve their emission Similarly all the wood used by the from the municipal supply and is rates. Production Area in its exhibitions is bought discharged into the public sewage from a supplier assessed by the PEFC. system, since it is comparable to urban The direct and indirect greenhouse gas effluent. There is therefore no concern emissions for 2014, 2013 and 2012 are In relation to business travel, the regarding the effect it might have on shown in the following table: measures proposed are to continue water sources. G4-EN15. Direct GHG emissions (scope 1) G4-EN16. Indirect GHG emissions (scope 2) G4-EN17. Indirect GHG emissions (scope 3) U 2014 2013 Direct GHG emissions (scope 1) (tCO2eq) 101.65 136.2 G4-EN15 Natural gas (1) (tCO2eq) 101.65 136.2 Indirect GHG emissions (scope 2) (tCO2eq) 5,461.22 5,876.9 G4-EN16 Electricity(2) (tCO2eq) 5,461.22 5,876.9 Indirect GHG emissions (scope 3) (tCO2eq) n/a 1,223.8 Business travel by plane (tCO2eq) n/a 431 Business travel by train (tCO2eq) n/a 15.8 Business travel by private car (tCO2eq) n/a n/a Paper (tCO2eq) 21.9 25.2 G4-EN17 Paper bags (tCO2eq) n/a 3.3 Publications (tCO2eq) n/a 713.8 Waste (tCO2eq) n/a n/a Water (3) (tCO2eq) 34.6 41.6 Consumption included from the following centres, unless otherwise stated: CaixaForum (Barcelona, Madrid, Palma, Lleida, Tarragona, Girona and Zaragoza), CosmoCaixa Barcelona, EspacioCaixa (Madrid, Murcia), Palau Macaya and the Esplais. (1) Direct emissions of natural gas have been calculated according to the emission factors contained in the guide “Guía práctica para el cálculo de emisiones de Gases de Efecto Invernadero” by the Catalan Office for Climate Change (http://canviclimatic.gencat.cat/en/). (2) Indirect emissions due to electricity consumption calculated according to the emission factors for the mix of gross production of electricity in the Iberian peninsula in 2013, included in the guide “Guía práctica para el cálculo de emisiones de Gases de Efecto Invernadero” by the Catalan Office for Climate Change. (3) Emissions resulting from water treatment calculated based on emission factors obtained from the emissions calculation tool of the Chamber of Commerce of Aragón. n/a: not available. 129 Annual Report ”la Caixa” Banking Foundation 2014 Commitment to the environment Both scope 1 and scope 2 emissions have decreased due to the reduction The following table shows the trend in have decreased. Scope 1 emissions have in the electricity consumed by the main the carbon footprint for scope 1 and decreased due to the reduction in the facilities; CosmoCaixa (Barcelona), 2 by centre: consumption of natural gas by CaixaForum (Madrid and Barcelona), equipment, while scope 2 emissions the headquarters and Esplais. Trend in the carbon footprint 2013-2012 by centre, only considering scope 1 and scope 2 (in tCO2eq) 2014 2013 Headquarters Headquarters 891.63 259.63 CosmoCaixa CosmoCaixa Barcelona 2,321.40 2,493.49 CaixaForum Barcelona 842.48 799.04 CaixaForum Madrid 682.44 568.48 CaixaForum Palma 423.05 426.26 CaixaForum CaixaForum Lleida 103.80 111.51 CaixaForum Tarragona 128.22 114.62 CaixaForum Girona 70.57 53.70 CaixaForum Zaragoza 342.90 n/a Espacios Caixa Madrid, Murcia, Girona 242.72 247.48 Esplais Esplais 664.35 591.55 Palau Macaya Palau Macaya 89.90 n/a n/a: not available. During 2014, FBLC carried out a number emissions. For emissions caused by daily to produce electricity from the use of of awareness-raising initiatives such as operations that cannot be avoided, in renewable sources, in this case wind publishing several news articles on the 2014 the Foundation began a project energy. This project involves the creation corporate intranet reminding employees to reduce high quality emissions in the of a small wind farm with 17 wind of environmental good practices and Voluntary Carbon Market. This involves turbines with the capacity to generate participating in activities to raise contributing to the financing of a 35.7 MW of electricity. This energy is awareness such as those promoting Earth reduction equivalent to greenhouse distributed and sold to India’s electricity Hour. This campaign, organised by the gases generated in another place. This grid as the project is being developed in WWF on 30 March, involved turning off formula helps to provide solutions to a the Rajasthan region. all exterior lighting at all the centres, in problem on a global scale and is not addition to successive shutdowns of compatible with the measures and drive emblematic monuments and buildings of for sustainability continuously sought in large cities around the world. the organisation’s own operations and processes. Implementing environmental good 7 8 9 practices has allowed ”la Caixa” Furthermore, FBLC took part in financing Banking Foundation to reduce its the Bundled Wind Project, an initiative G4-EN31. Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type U 2014 2013 2012 Environmental expenditure and investment euros (€) n/a 77,389 73,214.4 Waste disposal, emissions treatment, euros (€) n/a 51,770 51,811 G4-EN31 and remediation costs Prevention and environmental management euros (€) n/a 25,619 21,403 costs n/a: not available. Annual Report ”la Caixa” Banking Foundation 2014 130 Data on ”la Caixa” Foundation 2014 132 Budget of ”la Caixa” Foundation Budget of ”la Caixa” Foundation Budget expenditure 2014 Budget expenditure In thousand euros Programmes Social programmes 300,944 Environmental and scientific programmes 38,706 Cultural programmes 61,753 Educational and research programmes 33,291 Total 434,694 Social programmes 69.2% 300,944 Enviromental and scientific programmes 8.9% 38,706 Total budget: 434,694 Cultural programmes 14.2% 61,753 Educational and research programmes 7.7% 33,291 By type Investment in property, plant and equipment 30.4 Programme maintenance costs 404.3 Total 434.7 2015 Budget In thousand euros Programmes Social programmes 335,750 Environmental and scientific programmes 56,023 Cultural programmes 67,375 Educational and research programmes 40,852 Total 500,000 Social programmes 67.1% 335,750 Total budget: Enviromental and scientific programmes 11.2% 56,023 500,000 Cultural programmes 13.5% 67,375 Educational and research programmes 8.2% 40,852 By type Investment in property, plant and equipment 20.7 Programme maintenance costs 479.3 Total 500 Annual Report ”la Caixa” Banking Foundation 2014 132 Data on ”la Caixa” Foundation 2014 Budget of ”la Caixa” Foundation Breakdown of the budget Breakdown of the budget expenditure Total budget Change Total budget Change PTotal budget 2014: 19.46% 2013: –1% 2012: 434,694 363,865 361,015 Social programmes 69.2% 300,944 65% 236,349 65% 233,464 Environmental and scientific programmes 8.9% 38,706 12% 42,038 12% 42,780 Cultural programmes 14.2% 61,753 15% 55,551 14% 52,620 Educational and research programmes 7.7% 33,291 8% 29,927 9% 32,151 Budget expenditure Year-on-year Year-on-year change change 2014 2013 (2014-2013) 2012 (2013-2012) 2013 Social programmes Programes 300,944 Culturals 236,349 27.33% Programes 233,464Socials 236.349 1% Programes Educatius 42.038 Environmental and scientific programmes Programes 38,706 Ciència. Recerca 42,038i Medi Ambient –7.93% 42,780 Programes Ciència. Recerca–2% i Programes Medi Ambient 55.551 Cultural programmes 61,753 Educatius 55,551 11.16% 52,620 Programes Culturals 29.927 5% Educational and research programmes Programes 33,291 Socials 29,927 11.24% 32,151 –7% Total 434,694 363,865 19.46% 361,015 –1% 65 12 14 9 2012 Programes Culturals Programes Socials 233.464 Programes Educatius 42.780 Programes Ciència. Recerca i Medi Ambient Programes Ciència. Recerca i Programes Educatius Medi Ambient 52.620 Programes Culturals 32.151 Programes Socials 2011 Programes Culturals Programes Socials 261.102 Programes Educatius 59.129 Programes Ciència. Recerca i Medi Ambient Programes Ciència. Recerca i 133 Annual Report ”la Caixa” Banking Foundation 2014 Programes Educatius Medi Ambient 57.621 Programes Culturals 30.806 Programes Socials Principles of the United Nations Global Compact The ”la Caixa” Banking Foundation has those principles of the Global Compact The GRI has established a series of signed up to the United Nations Global covered by the text in question. indicators which have become an Compact and is currently President of the international standard to measure Global Compact Network Spain. In this There is also in-depth information on the performance in economic, environmental report, which also serves as a progress indicators of the G4 version of the Global and social areas. report, the end of each section contains Reporting Initiative (GRI). Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights within their area of influence. Pages 13, 15, 17, 19, 20, 22, 23, 24, 26, 27, 29, 30, 37, 39, 51, 63, 69, 93, 123. Principle 2 Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Pages 13, 17, 19, 20, 22, 23, 24, 26, 27, 29, 30, 51, 63, 64, 69, 93, 123. Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Pages 17, 28, 39, 123. Principle 4 Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. Pages 7, 22, 23, 24, 27, 28, 123. Principle 5 Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour. Pages 15, 17, 23, 27, 28, 39, 69, 123. Principle 6 Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Pages 15, 17, 22, 23, 24, 26, 27, 28, 29, 39, 43, 69, 123. Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Pages 23, 28, 43, 51, 130. Principle 8 Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Pages 41, 43, 44, 63, 69, 130. Principle 9 Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Pages 43, 44, 63, 69, 123, 130. Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Pages 37, 93, 123. Annual Report ”la Caixa” Banking Foundation 2014 134 Visit the website to access the complete document of ”la Caixa” Welfare Projects Annual Report 2014 http://obrasocial.lacaixa.es/laCaixaFoundation/ corporateinformation_en.html#fragment-2 Lay-out and printing www.cege.es Texts ©”la Caixa” Banking Foundation/Jordi Úbeda D.L.: B 8413-2015 Cover photograph Alberto Van Sotkkun Sanz Photographs Corporate Equality 2014 David Campos: p. 4, 29, 34, 41, 49, 50, 53, 61 Alberto Van Sotkkun Sanz: p. 7, 12, 14, 15, 16, 17, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 35, 43, 95 Jordi Nieva: p. 54 Máximo García: p. 38, 55, 64 ”la Caixa” Foundation: p. 13, 18, 19, 33, 35, 37, 40, 42, 46, 47, 52, 56, 57, 58, 59, 60, 63, 65, 66, 75, 88 Agustín Iglesias: p. 32 Raimon Solà: p. 36 Tino Soriano: p. 39. Photograph provided ”la Caixa” Banking Foundation by the FC Barcelona Foundation, FutbolNet programme Diagonal, 621-629 Cathy Loughran: p. 48 08028 Barcelona, Spain Georgina Ureña: p. 44 Telephone: (34) 902 22 30 40 Abel Sekabarate: p. 69 Intermon Oxfam: p. 67 Internet CERAI-Bolívia: p. 68 www.laCaixa.es/ObraSocial Directory of ”la Caixa” Banking Foundation Main services: Av. Diagonal, 621 08028 Barcelona Centres Barcelona Zaragoza Palma CaixaForum Barcelona CaixaForum Zaragoza CaixaForum Palma Ferrer i Guàrdia, 6-8 Av. de Anselm Clavé, 4 Pl. de Weyler, 3 08038 Barcelona 50004 Zaragoza 07001 Palma (Mallorca) Tel. 93 476 86 00 Tel. 976 768 200 Tel. 971 17 85 00 CaixaForum.com/agenda CaixaForum.com/agenda CaixaForum.com/agenda Facebook.com/CaixaForum Facebook.com/CaixaForum Madrid CosmoCaixa Barcelona Girona CaixaForum Madrid Isaac Newton, 26 CaixaForum Girona Paseo del Prado, 36 08022 Barcelona Ciutadans, 19 28014 Madrid Tel. 93 212 60 50 17004 Girona Tel. 91 330 73 00 CosmoCaixa.com/agenda Tel. 972 20 98 36 CaixaForum.com/agenda Facebook.com/CosmoCaixa CaixaForum.com/agenda Facebook.com/CaixaForum Palau Macaya EspaiCaixa Girona EspacioCaixa Madrid Paseo de Sant Joan, 108 Pl. Poeta Eduard Marquina, 10 Arapiles, 15 08037 Barcelona 17002 Girona 28015 Madrid Tel. 93 457 95 31 Tel. 972 21 54 08 Tel. 91 444 54 15 obrasocial.lacaixa.es/ambitos/ Centro Comunitario Lleida centros/espaciocaixa_es.html de Acción Social de CaixaForum Lleida la Fundación de la Esperanza Av. de Blondel, 3 Murcia de la Obra Social ”la Caixa” 25002 Lleida EspacioCaixa Murcia Palma de Sant Just, 4 Tel. 973 27 07 88 Av. del Río Segura, 6 08002 Barcelona CaixaForum.com/agenda 30002 Murcia Tel. 93 270 39 73 Tel. 968 22 63 13 Tarragona obrasocial.lacaixa.es/ambitos/ EspaiCaixa Bruc CaixaForum Tarragona centros/espaciocaixa_es .html Bruc, 72-74 Cristòfor Colom, 2 08009 Barcelona 43001 Tarragona Tel. 93 488 01 71 Tel. 977 24 98 71 CaixaForum.com/agenda CaixaForum Barcelona CosmoCaixa Barcelona Palau Macaya CaixaForum Madrid CaixaForum Palma CaixaForum Girona CaixaForum Tarragona CaixaForum Lleida CaixaForum Zaragoza ”la Caixa” Foundation Information Service: 902 22 30 40 www.laCaixa.es/ObraSocial Press Office http://press.lacaixa.es/socialprojects/ http://twitter.com/fundaciolacaixa Visit the website and access the online version of the 2014 ”la Caixa” Banking Foundation Annual Report http://obrasocial.lacaixa.es/laCaixaFoundation/ corporateinformation_en.html#fragment-2
