14 Report AkzoNobel 2014 at a glance Key regions North America Mature Europe 15% 37% (by revenue) €14.3 billion revenue €987 million operating income €2.23 earnings per share 80+ countries 47,200 employees 10% 8% 200+ production sites Latin America Emerging Europe Our businesses Asia Pacific 26% Decorative Paints Performance Coatings Specialty Chemicals Whether our customers are professional We’re a leading supplier of performance As a major producer of specialty chemicals decorators or keen DIY-ers, they want great coatings with strong product technologies with leadership positions in many markets, paint that gives a great finish. We supply a and brands. Our high quality products we make sure that industries worldwide are huge variety of quality products for every are used by customers across the world supplied with high quality ingredients and situation and surface, including paints, to protect and enhance everything process aids for the manufacture of lacquers and varnishes. We also offer a from vessels, cars, aircraft, yachts and life’s essentials. range of mixing machines, color concepts architectural components (structural steel, and training courses for the building and building products, flooring) to consumer The business operates four units: renovation industry, while our specialty goods (mobile devices, appliances, beverage • Functional Chemicals coatings for metal, wood and other critical cans, furniture) and oil and gas platforms. (e.g. chelates, ethylene amines) building materials lead the market. • Industrial Chemicals The business operates four units: (e.g. chlor-alkali, caustic soda, salt) The business operates three units: • Automotive and Aerospace Coatings • Pulp and Performance Chemicals • Decorative Paints Europe, • Industrial Coatings (e.g. bleaching, colloidal silicas) Middle East and Africa (e.g. coil, wood and packaging) • Surface Chemistry • Decorative Paints Asia • Marine and Protective Coatings (e.g. surfactants, synthetic polymers • Decorative Paints Latin America • Powder Coatings and bio-polymers) Brands include Coral, Dulux, Flexa, Brands include Awlgrip, International, Brands include AkzoNobel, Bindzil, Biostyle, Hammerite, Sadolin and Sikkens. Interpon and Sikkens. Dissolvine, Ecosel, Eka, Expancel, Jozo and Kromasil. Some of our customers: thousands of paint Some of our customers: Airbus, Boeing, distributors around the world and large retail Bosch, Dell, IKEA, Philips, Samsung, Shell, Some of our customers: BASF, Bayer, Dow, outlets such as B&Q, Leroy Merlin and OBI. Toyota, Volkswagen and Whirlpool. GE, Huntsman, Momentive, Monsanto, P&G, Shin-Etsu, Stora Enso and Unilever. Decorative Paints 2014 revenue breakdown by Performance Coatings 2014 revenue breakdown Specialty Chemicals 2014 revenue breakdown end-user segment in % by end-user segment in % by end-user segment in % D A A B C D C B A A 4% A Buildings and Infrastructure 100 A Buildings and Infrastructure 21 A Buildings and Infrastructure 18 Other countries B Transportation 0 B Transportation 37 B Transportation 6 C Consumer Goods 0 C Consumer Goods 28 C Consumer Goods 19 D Industrial 0 D Industrial 14 D Industrial 57 COPPER ORANGE Color of the Year 2015 www.akzonobel.com/colorfutures Scan and explore Our Report 2014 is enriched with Layar, an app for smartphones. It brings paper to life and gives you access to extra digital content. Step 1 Download the free Layar app via the App Store or Android Market. Step 2 Open the app and hold your smartphone above any page with the Layar icon. Step 3 Click on “tap” to view. Step 4 The application will open on your phone. Enjoy! Interactive print Download the free Scan the page Discover Layar app interactive content Our Report 2014 is also available online (www.akzonobel.com/report) and as an iPad app (http://bit.ly/ANApp). The digital versions include integrated videos, an interactive chart generator, data comparison feature, animated charts and diagrams and search-as-you-type capabilities. AkzoNobel is a leading global paints and coatings company and a major producer of specialty chemicals. Calling on centuries of expertise, we supply industries and consumers worldwide with innovative products and sustainable technologies designed to meet the growing demands of our fast-changing planet. Headquartered in Amsterdam, the Netherlands, we have approximately 47,000 people in around 80 countries, while our portfolio includes well-known brands such as Dulux, Sikkens, International, Interpon and Eka. Consistently ranked as one of the leaders in the area of sustainability, we are committed to making life more liveable and our cities more human. Human Cities initiative: Six ways to improve, energize and regenerate urban communities around the world p 10 “We remain on Heritage Transport track to deliver on our 2015 targets” Color p8 Changing Inspiring Picture it the world with innovation before you pioneering through paint it technology partnerships p 72 p 84 p 96 2 Contents AkzoNobel at a glance Cover flap How AkzoNobel performed in 2014 4 Sport and leisure How AkzoNobel created value in 2014 6 CEO statement 8 Human Cities initiative 10 Sustainability Strategic performance 25 Education Business performance 61 Leadership 99 Governance and compliance 113 Financial information 139 Sustainability statements 193 Index 246 Financial calendar 247 Glossary 248 Measuring our Paint that keeps Making sport impact in 4D you cool more accessible p 206 p 212 p 234 3 How AkzoNobel performed in 2014 Financial strategic targets 9.0% 14.0% <2.0 Return on sales (ROS) Return on investment (ROI) Net debt/EBITDA Achieve return on sales Achieve return on investment Maintain net debt/EBITDA (operating income/revenue) (operating income/average lower than 2.0 by 2015 of 9.0 percent by 2015 invested capital) of 14.0 percent by 2015 Financial progress 2014 6.9% (excluding incidental items: 7.5% ) 10.0% 0.95 4 Strategic performance | AkzoNobel Report 2014 Sustainability strategic targets 20% 25-30% Eco-premium solutions Carbon emissions Resource Efficiency Index Increase revenue from Reduce our carbon emissions Monitor new index, as future downstream eco-premium across the value chain by indicator for resource efficiency solutions to 20 percent of 25 to 30 percent per ton across the full value chain revenue by 2020 by 2020 (2012 base) Sustainability progress 2014 19% -4% 96 AkzoNobel Report 2014 | Strategic performance 5 How AkzoNobel created value in 2014 Economic value: Input Organization By bringing more value to our customers, €6.3 billion €14.3 billion €588 million investors, employees and society in general, group equity revenue capital expenditures we can better position ourselves for growth €3.3 billion €987 million €9.9 billion and achieve our strategic vision of leading market positions delivering leading performance. borrowings operating income invested capital €363 million €811 million So as well as actively working to reduce We invested in 2014 to keep our facilities our carbon footprint across the value chain in good shape, as well as expanding our – to improve our resource efficiency and research and development expenses cash flow from operations manufacturing capability reduce our environmental footprint – we’re also creating social value by developing our employees and being active in the communities where we operate. And by continuing to innovate in order to supply more sustainable products and solutions for our customers, we create economic, environmental and social value. Environmental value: Input 34% 13% 10.7 million tons All these initiatives contribute to our financial performance and ultimately lead to more economic value for our investors. renewable energy renewable raw materials as % upstream CO2(e) emissions of organic materials 98,000 TJ €5.5 billion energy use raw materials spend Social value: Input Organization 13,500 1.8 Employee and supervised contractors total reportable rate of injuries number of volunteers for Community total reportable rate of injuries Target: <2.0 (2015) Program projects (cumulative since 2005) 3.1 2.4 2.3 1.8 2011 2012 2013 2014 6 How AkzoNobel created value in 2014 | AkzoNobel Report 2014 Outcomes Revenue breakdown by Business Area in % Revenue breakdown by end-user segment in % €258 million income tax paid 6.9% ROS (excluding incidental items: 7.5% ) C A D A €280 million dividend paid 10.0% ROI 0.95 net debt C B B /EBITDA 19% A Decorative Paints 27 A Buildings and Infrastructure 42 RD&I investments have resulted in B Performance Coatings 39 B Transportation 16 19 percent of revenue derived C Specialty Chemicals 34 C Consumer Goods 17 from eco-premium solutions with of revenue from eco-premium solutions D Industrial 25 customer benefits. Organization Outcomes 4.0 million tons CO2(e) emissions own operations 149 kilotons total waste own operations 26.9 million tons CO2(e) emissions cradle-to-grave 4% increase CO2(e) per ton of sales from 2012 cradle-to-grave carbon footprint 24% reduction in operational eco-efficiency 12.2 million tons downstream CO2(e) emissions 96 REI in resource efficiency index footprint (since 2009) Outcomes 17% €2.8 billion 47,200 female executives employee benefits employees at year-end 2014 16% 3.97 2,260 high growth markets executives employee engagement score Community Program projects (cumulative since 2005) AkzoNobel Report 2014 | How AkzoNobel created value in 2014 7 CEO statement Dear stakeholder, When I look back at 2014, I see an eventful year, full of economic and market challenges. It was also a year of many changes at AkzoNobel, all of which were designed to make the company an even better place than it already is. The beginning of the year was very much dominated by unfavorable conditions with regard to currencies, while markets did seem to recover to a certain extent. That changed in the second half of the year when Europe again experienced a lack of growth and the recovery that everyone had hoped for didn’t materialize. At the same time, we saw some of the Asian economies and Latin America slow down. These were serious economic challenges that we needed to adapt to. In terms of financial performance, we saw the first clear proof points that our strategy is working, despite the market headwinds. We achieved continuously improving return on sales and return on investment levels, while the introduction of several commercial excellence initiatives helped to prepare the company for organic growth. The cash position was slightly marred by an unfortunate isolated incident of external fraud in the US, but we remain on track to deliver on our 2015 targets. Scan and explore 8 Strategic performance | AkzoNobel Report 2014 During the course of the year, we focused a lot of the Clinton Global Initiative, which involved establishing a During the course of the year, we welcomed Maëlys Castella attention on transforming AkzoNobel into a more simplified partnership with 100 Resilient Cities – pioneered by as our new CFO, succeeding Keith Nichols. She brings a and customer focused organization. The changes we The Rockefeller Foundation. It will enable us to support wealth of operational and financial experience and has been implemented also helped us adapt to the challenging these cities in becoming more liveable, more enjoyable and warmly welcomed as part of the Executive Committee. market conditions we were facing. Within the functional more exciting. We are therefore looking forward to enabling Antony Burgmans succeeded Karel Vuursteen as Chairman areas, we introduced a Global Business Services concept, people all over the world to strenghten their emotional of our Supervisory Board. Karel brought a tremendous which is designed to standardize many of our functional connection with the place, neighborhood and environment amount of energy, strategic thinking and support to processes and make us more agile. In addition, we actively where they live. AkzoNobel and we thank him for all his efforts. Towards reduced the number of management layers to further the end of 2014, we were also saddened by the passing of streamline our structure and help drive the creation of a Our strategy of organic growth and operational excellence Dolf van den Brink, a long-time Supervisory Board member high performance culture. includes embedding sustainability in everything we do. who brought his wisdom and professional expertise to the Sustainability is also one of the main pillars of the Human company for many years. He leaves a big legacy and we will This process of transformation included the ongoing Cities initiative. It was therefore especially pleasing to be continue to draw on everything we learned from him. review of our manufacturing footprint and we continued to ranked first on the Dow Jones Sustainability Index (in the consolidate facilities during the course of the year. We also Materials industry group) for the third year in a row. It was Looking ahead at 2015, we do not expect significant positive invested in a number of new facilities, and are continuing to also the ninth consecutive year that we have featured in the changes in the markets. But while we do not anticipate do so. For example, an automotive and aerospace coatings top three. This underlines how important sustainability is for the markets to turn in our favor, we’re confident that we factory was opened in Changzhou, China, and our new AkzoNobel and how it has been fully integrated into the way have built the foundations to become more successful in chlor-alkali plant was commissioned in Frankfurt, Germany. we run our businesses. 2015 and remain on track to deliver on our targets. We will Elsewhere, Powder Coatings started operations at a new continue to drive value creation in order to deliver plant in Dubai in the Middle East and we broke ground at a Our innovation in particular is focused strongly on the leading performance. new site for decorative paints in Chengdu, China. A number sustainable benefits we can provide for our customers. of other facilities are under construction which will give Highlights during 2014 included the launch of a new barrier All our employees around the world deserve a tremendous further momentum to our growth strategy. coating which made it possible to create the world’s first amount of credit for the energy and effort that they have put in amid all the changes that have been taking place. I also want to thank our customers, suppliers and our investors for “We remain on track to their trust and cooperation. I’m sure that our leading market positions, products and brands will make it possible for us to deliver on our 2015 targets” continue being successful in 2015. A key influence on our growth ambitions is the fact that fully compostable and recyclable paper cup for cold drinks. more than 50 percent of the world’s population currently Another exciting innovation was launched by our Decorative lives in cities. This is significant, because 60 percent of our Paints business. The award-winning Visualizer app enables revenue is connected to cities. That’s why we’ve launched users to see in real time what a room will look like in a wide our Human Cities initiative, which was a major highlight for range of different colors – before any paint is applied to Ton Büchner us in 2014. Introduced to the world in Venice, it explains how the wall – making it more fun to interact with the way you CEO and Chairman of the Board of Management and AkzoNobel can play an important role in helping the world’s decorate your home. Executive Committee cities to meet many of the key challenges of the 21st century. Shortly after the Venice launch, we made a commitment to AkzoNobel Report 2014 | CEO statement 9 Human Cities initiative Color Heritage Our cities are growing. Estimates suggest that by 2050 – when the world’s population will reach nine billion – around 70 percent of people will live in cities. One of the biggest challenges of our age is to ensure that urban areas can cope with the demands that this will create. Scan and explore 10 Sport and leisure In order to respond to the rapid urbanization that is taking place, AkzoNobel launched its Human Cities Sustainability initiative in June 2014. Based on six key pillars, it’s designed to help urban areas become more inspiring, energizing and vibrant for people across the world. We want to go beyond the purely functional or technological aspects and help cities and the people who live there to connect on an emotional level. Or put another way, we want to help cities become more human. Transport Education The six pillars we have identified are color, heritage, transport, education, sport and leisure, and sustainability. They build on the fact that around 60 percent of our revenue is connected to cities, reflecting the positive contribution we can make to urban areas across the world. Our determination to help cities meet the challenges they face was underlined in September when we made a commitment at the Clinton Global Initiative (CGI) Annual Meeting in New York. Designed in collaboration with The Rockefeller Foundation’s 100 Resilient Cities program, our commitment includes developing an urban resilience guide for cities and staging special projects in four of the cities involved in the 100 Resilient Cities program. Ultimately, Human Cities is about making cities more inspiring and enjoyable places to live. By partnering with influential global organizations such as The Rockefeller Foundation, we’re underlining our serious commitment to working with partners across the world to tackle the many challenges being faced by some of the biggest urban areas. 11 Creating character and emotion with color Walk around some of the world’s cities and it’s often the colors you see that inspire an emotional connection. Color gives a city energy and character, while our own research has shown that color plays an important role in giving citizens a sense of place and identity. Human Cities initiative Harnessing the transformative power of color can therefore help to give cities a new lease of life, while staying true to their origins. As one of the world’s leading paints and coatings companies, we have a long track record of helping cities around the Cities should be more colorful world to add color and preserve their unique identity, typified by our highly successful Color Plans. Individually designed by our Sikkens brand in partnership with architects, historians, municipal authorities and local people, a Color Plan is essentially a color collection which is typical of a particular city or part of a city. Based on research into an area’s historic use of color going back hundreds of years, the overall aim is to help cities identify, recover and preserve the colors that give them their unique character and appearance. Color One of the more recent Color Plans we developed was for Bergamo in Italy. Working in collaboration with the Italian Ministry of Heritage, architects Riccardo Zanetta and Domenico Egizi, as well as the University of Bergamo, a color collection was created which is now being used as one of the key reference points for restoration and exterior redecoration projects. Our work in Bergamo follows on from Color Plans that have been developed for various Italian and Spanish cities, including Rome, Barcelona, Portofino, Malaga, Naples and Zaragoza. Color collections have also been created for cities in Austria and the Netherlands. 12 Scan and explore 13 Making the past part of the future In an increasingly urbanized world, how can we make sure that the cities we live in have meaning and provide people with a sense of place and space? At AkzoNobel, we believe that balancing old and new is key to creating more Human Cities. Protecting our heritage can also have important long-term benefits for urban environments, such as attracting tourism and stimulating Urban heritage needs to be embraced local development. To fully appreciate the positive impact that safeguarding the past can have, you only need to look at Malacca in Malaysia. Declared a UNESCO World Heritage Human Cities initiative site in 2008, the town’s unique architecture is being preserved through a partnership with AkzoNobel’s Dulux paint brand. The project, which will run until 2019, involves Dulux providing technical and design support, as well as supplying suitable paints and coatings to help preserve the Heritage uniqueness and originality of the colors on 26 heritage buildings and monuments. Once a thriving center for trade and cultural exchange between East and West, Malacca is a remarkable example of an historic colonial town. It’s easy to understand why local residents are so fiercely proud of its history and remain keen to preserve its architecture and culture, as well as their collective identity. “History is a living process,” explains Serge Jardon, a Malacca resident for more than 25 years. “Each stone will tell you a story if you take time to listen. That’s why it’s important to preserve our heritage for the next generation, so that they can learn.” Adds Jeremy Rowe, Managing Director of AkzoNobel Decorative Paints South East and South Asia: “People love these buildings. They’re a symbol of the past, but they’re also a symbol of freedom, independence and liberation and that’s why people look at them with fondness and treasure them as part of their heritage.” The work taking place in Malacca is a testament to those who remain committed to protecting our past and serves to remind planners and architects that Human Cities are those that make the past a part of the future. 14 Scan and explore 15 Connecting people and the planet People must connect to make cities come alive Traveling within and between cities has come a long way since the days of the horse and cart and spending months at sea. We live in an age of hi-tech transportation hubs, which play a crucial role in ensuring the fast and efficient movement of goods and people. With the world’s population continuing to grow and our cities expanding at a rapid rate, maintaining safe, efficient and sustainable transport links and embedding them into city infrastructure is becoming ever more important. Because effective transportation systems don’t just keep people properly connected, they can also Human Cities initiative make or break a city, depending on how well they function. Transport AkzoNobel has a proud track record of supplying major transportation projects all over the world. From airports in Hong Kong, London and Brazil to metro systems in Dubai and Shanghai, our products and expertise are being used to meet the tough demands of getting people and cargo from place to place. To help keep these transportation hubs safe and comfortable, we supply a wide range of high performance products, such as fire protection coatings and decorative paints. Our contribution doesn’t stop at buildings and installations, however. We’re also a leading supplier of coatings for planes, high speed trains, rapid bus transport and metro cars. Our durable powder coatings, for example, are used on the inside and outside of trains and metro vehicles, while our high quality vehicle refinishes are applied to trains. Whatever the type of surface, our key focus is to keep our cities moving and make transport safer, better protected, more sustainable, better looking and more affordable for everyone. 16 Scan and explore 17 Unlocking potential to build a better future Cities are more than just a collection of buildings; they are ever-evolving organisms that flourish or fail depending on how successfully they foster human innovation. At AkzoNobel, we therefore believe that providing decent education for young Education should be a city’s lifeblood people should be a fundamental concern for those who live in, work in, or are connected to cities. As a company that depends on innovation, we also believe that investing in a quality labor market makes good business sense. Human Cities initiative Education That’s why we have long been involved in programs and initiatives designed to give children the education and training they deserve. We work together with educational organizations in all of our key markets, including globally with Plan; with the Dream Center in China; the Rijksmuseum, the Dutch-Asia Honors Summer School and Giving Back in the Netherlands; and The Courtauld Institute of Art in the UK. Another important partnership is with the Haberdashers’ Company, which plays a major role in providing best-in-class education to children across the UK via its network of schools. In 2014, we teamed up to establish the AkzoNobel/ Haberdashers’ Science Scholarship program. It is designed to promote the study of science at university, particularly among disadvantaged groups with little previous tradition of entering higher education. The scholarship is part of a broader science aspiration agenda that we are both working on. It also includes a national science in schools competition, a shadowing day and an annual reception for our scholars. The partnership is just one way in which we are investing in the education of young people all over the world. 18 Scan and explore 19 Refreshing Sport and leisure the soul of a city A city’s ability to thrive can hinge on many things, but one of the most important is providing enough space for people to enjoy their leisure time. As well as enhancing an area’s appeal, creating open spaces can also encourage social interaction and help residents to adopt a healthier lifestyle. The Singapore government grasped this concept perfectly as part of a strategy Citizens need space to rest and play designed to transform Singapore from a garden city, to a city in a garden. The aim was to raise the quality of life by enhancing the amount of green space in the city. Human Cities initiative The result was the stunning Gardens by the Bay. Spanning 101 hectares of reclaimed land, the complex features two conservatories housing Mediterranean and semi-arid subtropical ecosystems – the Flower Dome and the Cloud Forest – which are among the world’s largest climate-controlled glass houses. Outside, 18 “supertrees” dominate the landscape, providing a home to various exotic plants, while 11 of them also serve environmental functions such as harvesting solar energy. The conservatories and the supertrees are protected with a high performance coatings system supplied by AkzoNobel’s International brand. More than 50,000 liters of paint was used on the structural steelwork to protect the substrate from the effects of corrosion. The three-part system was chosen both for its anticorrosive properties and its high quality aesthetic finish. First opened in 2011, Gardens by the Bay was named World Building of the Year 12 months later, attracting nearly four million people by the end of March 2013. Its Chairman, Theresa Foo-Yo Mie Yoen, sums up its appeal: “At its heart, Gardens by the Bay is the people’s garden.A space for all to enjoy the beauty of nature within the city.” 20 Scan and explore 21 Bright ideas for more efficient living Urban design must consider climate change With urbanization increasing at a rapid rate, the demand for energy is Sustainability growing all the time. This puts huge pressure on cities to adapt, think differently about how they use resources and try to do more with less. A great example of how adopting more sustainable solutions can benefit urban areas and their residents is city lighting – which is getting both smarter and more efficient, thanks to the growing popularity of LEDs. Not only do they consume less energy than traditional lighting, LEDs also help to make our cities safer, more welcoming and more colorful. Human Cities initiative In fact, LEDs are so important to the modern world that the 2014 Nobel Prize for physics was awarded to a trio of scientists for the invention of blue light-emitting diodes. This enabled a new generation of bright, energy efficient white lamps, as well as color LED screens. Globally, the general LED lighting market is growing all the time – particularly in Asia – with India considering converting its 27.5 million streetlamps to LEDs over a period of three years. This continued growth and increasing market penetration enables AkzoNobel to build on its position as a leader in sustainability and a major player in providing key products for LED manufacture. We are a leading supplier of what are known as high purity metal organic (HPMO) precursors – an essential ingredient for LED chips. Without them, there would be no LEDs. These HPMOs are used to grow a very thin crystal layer of semiconductor material on a wafer. This is the active layer which emits the light and helps to make our cities brighter, safer and more human. 22 Scan and explore 23 Improving solar efficiency How do you do more with less? We have developed new technology for the production of high purity trimethylaluminum (TMAl), which is used by solar cell manufacturers to create a special layer to increase the efficiency of solar cells. Strategic performance Strategic performance In 2013, AkzoNobel announced a new vision, targets, core principles and values, and strategy. This meant that all the key strategic elements for the company and its Business Areas were in place at the start of 2014. Throughout the year, we therefore focused on strategy implementation and execution. Our strategy 26 Strategic targets: 2014 performance 44 How we created value in 2014 46 Risk management 52 AkzoNobel Report 2014 | Strategic performance 25 Our strategy Vision: Leading market positions delivering leading performance End-user segments Actions Buildings and Infrastructure Deliver dependably Transportation Processes Grow organically Consumer Goods and capabilities Innovate Industrial Strategic People, product and Simplify focus areas process safety Standardize Operational Control Cycle Continuously improve Care for the customer Continuous improvement Reduction of product Innovation and process complexity Procurement Cash and return on investment Talent management Embedded safety and sustainability Diverse and inclusive talent development Core principles Values Safety Customer focused Integrity Deliver on commitments Sustainability Passion for excellence Winning together 26 Strategic performance | AkzoNobel Report 2014 Core principles and values Strategic focus areas Care for the customer Our core principles and As part of the corporate strategy AkzoNobel holds many market leadership positions. values define the culture and development process we carried In order to maintain these positions, we have identified organic growth as one of our priorities. In 2014, we made behaviors that we are committed out in 2012, we identified five key some progress in terms of organic growth, with volume to embedding throughout focus areas. The following is a brief growth of 1 percent for the company as a whole. However, there is still considerable room for improvement. AkzoNobel. description of accomplishments The starting point for organic growth is care for our We have three core principles – safety, integrity and in 2014, along with plans for customers. It begins with a deep and profound undersustainability. These work in harmony with our values – 2015 and beyond for each of the standing of our end-user segments, which translates into Customer focused, Deliver on commitments, Passion an understanding of customer needs, such as product for excellence and Winning together. In 2014, we put five areas. performance, service levels, sustainability and price. considerable time and effort into rolling out our core This in turn drives our product and service innovation principles and values to all employees, because effective approach and our product and margin management engagement is fundamental to realizing our leading programs, which combine to ensure that we move closer performance vision. More details about the roll-out can be to our vision of delivering leading performance from our found under Diverse and inclusive talent development in leading market positions. this section. In 2014, a key area of activity in terms of care for the customer was in the development of strong processes in Marketing and Sales through our commercial excellence programs. These programs differ per Business Area, but we have created an overall corporate framework to ensure efficiency and create consistency where this makes sense. One example of this is the measurement of customer satisfaction levels, where we have agreed company-wide to a four-pronged approach which measures customer satisfaction in terms of: • The service we provide via on-time in-full (OTIF) measures Information is gathered daily or weekly at production sites and deviations trigger corrective actions by local management, with overall figures reviewed regularly at the Business Area and full company level AkzoNobel Report 2014 | Strategic performance 27 • The way we address customer questions Reduction of product and as non-product related Procurement. Specifically, in 2014, and concerns We measure this as a combination of issue frequency process complexity we consolidated most of the transactional activities related to these functions into regional hubs. These shared services and response time for resolution. Local management Standardization and simplification of our processes is vital and expertise centers will service all AkzoNobel businesses teams regularly review these data and ensure that root to achieving our vision and targets, as it will lead to a faster, in a standard, cost efficient manner. In Finance, our financial cause investigations are carried out to resolve issues and more agile organization and reduced costs and resource transaction handling processes are being standardized improve future service and satisfaction use. In addition to improving our product portfolios through across the world, while in Information Management, we are product and margin management, and our Marketing and creating a more simplified and uniform ERP landscape. • Our understanding of customers’ broader Sales processes through commercial excellence, we are also expectations and concerns, with consequential reducing complexity in our raw material slates and in our improvements in products and services processes throughout the value chain. Cash and return on investment We assess performance through market research, customer discussions and specifically targeted In terms of raw material slates, our ambition is to create One of the key issues in our strategy is the need to be more customer surveys. Results are regularly reviewed at a future-proof raw material portfolio. This means that we cash generative and improve our return on investment. Business Area and full company level will address the sustainability aspects while we reduce This strategic focus area is supported by a strong record of the number of raw materials we use significantly, without operating working capital management. In addition, over the • Customer loyalty levels compromising the quality of our products. This has now last few years, we have improved our capital expenditure Every day, our front line sales, customer service and been achieved in our paints and coatings businesses management processes significantly, based in part on supply chain employees contribute to our success in the through the definition of raw material slates covering our end-user segment analysis, which highlights more market, however, this is often difficult to measure in a resins, pigments, solvents and additives. Furthermore, a attractive growth opportunities. Better capital expenditure meaningful way. To address this, we have decided to use rigorous, cross-functional process has been defined for the management is also supported by the differentiated customer retention as a proxy measurement for customer introduction of new raw materials. growth strategies developed in all three Business Areas loyalty. We believe that this is an appropriate choice and described in the Business performance section of this because customers do have alternative sources of supply In 2014, a key area for process complexity reduction was in Report 2014. in almost all of our businesses the implementation of the AkzoNobel Leading Performance System (ALPS), a fundamental change to the way we work in In all three Business Areas, we have continued to take action Further development and implementation of our commercial the Integrated Supply Chain. This company-wide framework in terms of operating efficiency. We are already reaping excellence programs will continue to be a major priority of standard processes and tools helps us drive targeted some rewards of our restructuring programs, as evidenced for AkzoNobel in 2015 and will be a fundamental factor in improvements for cost productivity, reduced resource use, by our improved return on sales and investment in 2014. achieving higher organic growth levels in the future. on-time in-full (OTIF) customer service and competitive Going forward, we will need to maintain this strong base position, based on a continuous improvement approach. of operating efficiency via the Continuous improvement We are already seeing positive results in early ALPS process, which will help us to counteract inflation and other production sites, including considerable and simultaneous cost increases. improvements in volume, equipment utilization, OTIF, manning levels and employee engagement. We also made substantial progress in terms of process complexity reduction in Global Business Services (GBS), which covers functional support activities such as Human Resources, Finance and Information Management, as well 28 Strategic performance | AkzoNobel Report 2014 While we are taking a focused approach to performance Sustainable business beyond our own operations. For example, upstream in the improvement to support this strategic focus area, we By working together with customers and suppliers, we aim value chain we are continuing to look for opportunities to remain acutely aware of the sustainability and financial to develop leading solutions that create more value from use renewable or lower impact raw materials. As a result, consequences of our investment and performance fewer resources. In particular, we are focusing on developing in 2014, we announced an expansion of our existing joint improvement decisions. As has been the case for a and marketing solutions that have a social or environmental development agreement with Solazyme. This will provide for number of years now, all significant (greater than €5 million) sustainability advantage for our customers when compared funded development and a multi-year supply of renewable investment proposals require a sustainability evaluation, with competitive products. For example, in 2014, we algae-based oils. These oils would replace petroleum and which includes assessment at different stages in the announced the world’s first coating for cold drinks paper palm oil-derived products used to manufacture surfactants, project development. This sustainability assessment covers cups which allows them to be composted or recycled. one of our main Specialty Chemicals product platforms. eco-efficiency, health and safety, process and product The product adds to an already long list of products in safety, natural resource and raw material requirements, and our Performance Coatings Business Area that help our Capable, engaged people environmental impact. customers, or our customers’ customers, to reduce their The focus of this pillar is on developing our employees environmental impact while generating meaningful revenue and also forming partnerships along the value chain to and other benefits for AkzoNobel. create more value from fewer resources. In 2014, we made Embedded safety a significant and visible step in terms of external partnerships and sustainability In addition to measuring the percentage of our revenue that comes from eco-premium solutions with a downstream as part of our Human Cities initiative. We continue to be viewed as a leader in sustainability. advantage, we also measure our progress against this Our focus on Human Cities stems from the fact that a In 2014, for the third year in a row, we were ranked top of aspect of our sustainability agenda using a resource significant percentage of our business comes from products the Materials industry group on the Dow Jones Sustainability efficiency index (REI). We developed this indicator to and services that are linked to the urban environment. Index. We have now been ranked in the top three in our measure how efficiently we generate value, and defined it Based on six key pillars, the initiative is designed to help sector for the last nine years. While we remain proud of as gross margin divided by cradle-to-grave carbon footprint. urban areas become more inspiring, energizing and vibrant these accomplishments, we are committed to improving for people across the world. We want to go beyond the even further in order to achieve our sustainability targets. Resource efficiency purely functional or technological aspects and help cities For example, in 2014, we achieved our 2015 target of a total This pillar is focused on improving material efficiency across become more human. The six pillars we have identified reportable injury rate (TRR) of less than 2.0 per million hours the value chain, and increasing our use of renewable are color, heritage, transport, education, sport and leisure, worked and, therefore, we are now striving to go beyond this materials and renewable energy to create more value from and sustainability. target in 2015. fewer resources. It is important to note with regard to this metric that a reduction in carbon footprint and a reduction This determination to help cities meet the challenges To help drive improvement going forward, we introduced our in costs often go hand-in-hand. For instance, we are in the they face was underlined in September when we made a Planet Possible sustainability agenda in 2013, focused on process of exploring opportunities for conversion of biomass commitment at the Clinton Global Initiative Annual Meeting radical resource efficiency throughout our entire value chain. facilities from electricity to steam in our Delfzijl chlor-alkali in New York. Designed in collaboration with The Rockefeller There are three main pillars to this agenda, which build on plant, doubling energy output from the same renewable Foundation’s 100 Resilient Cities program, our commitment our sustainability foundations. More information on the three resources with both cost and footprint includes developing an urban resilience guide for cities and pillars and sustainability foundations follows: reduction implications. staging “Let’s Colour” projects in four of the cities involved in the 100 Resilient Cities program. In addition, we will make We monitor progress against this aspect of our strategy our expertise in paints, coatings and chemicals available to by looking at the efficiency of resource and energy use the program’s advisory committees. across the entire value chain, measured by carbon footprint reduction. It is therefore important that we achieve the kind of improvements described above both within and AkzoNobel Report 2014 | Strategic performance 29 Our Human Cities activities will build on, not replace, existing Diverse and inclusive Our work will be supported by continued roll-out of the activities in terms of external outreach. So we will continue to work with key suppliers and customers to develop solutions, talent development integrated Talent management process, which was introduced in 2013. This process (which is described in as well as working in the communities we serve through To address our other four strategic focus areas, we need more detail in the Processes and capabilities chapter) is our Community Program and “Let’s Colour” campaigns. the active participation of a strong and motivated workforce intended to bring increased objectivity to talent identification, Internally, we will continue to enable our employees to deliver which reflects the diversity of the end-user segments we as well as a more targeted approach to the development of more value from fewer resources by embedding sustainability serve. We will gain this active participation by increasing leadership potential and increased process transparency. in our talent management process. employee engagement and providing continuous learning This more active approach to talent management will also and development opportunities. This will create a work focus on the appreciation of the added value that can come Sustainability foundations environment where people can perform to the best of their from diverse teams. The three pillars of our Planet Possible agenda build on the ability while ensuring that our management layers reflect the company’s core principles in terms of safety, integrity and diversity of our overall workforce. With regard to increased diversity, we actively redressed sustainability. From a people safety perspective, our Lifethe gender balance in our senior management layers Saving Rules and behavior-based safety programs In 2014, a fundamental part of our activity in terms of by appointing Maëlys Castella as our first female Chief have provided a strong base to help us achieve our improved employee engagement was based on the full rollFinancial Officer, and our first female member of the Board 2015 safety target in 2014 and also for continuous out of our core principles and values. Throughout the year, of Management. Her appointment sends a clear signal that safety improvement going forward. We have also made we held thousands of meetings and workshops where we we continue to take diversity seriously at AkzoNobel and are considerable strides in the development of process and identified how the behaviors related to our new values could continuing to make progress towards our targets in this area. product safety procedures (described in more detail in the support us in achieving our goals. We also integrated the Processes and capabilities chapter). core principles and values into all of our main HR processes, including recruitment, our new leadership talent assessment We use our routine management cycle to review progress process and our employee performance evaluation. Pulse against our sustainability targets and we continue to put surveys indicate that these core principles and values are tools in place to help our employees make progress against well understood today by our employees, and also that they our Planet Possible agenda. For example, we are currently are a very positive motivating factor. piloting a new sustainability improvement toolkit. This toolkit includes a self-assessment audit, a methodology for target We also believe that the core principles and values setting based on company requirements and business contributed to the improvement we saw in our priorities, and an approach for developing appropriate plans 2014 ViewPoint employee engagement survey, compared to get from the current level of maturity to higher levels. with 2013. While we are pleased to see this improvement, we recognize that we still have some way to go in order to achieve top quartile engagement levels. In 2015, our focus in terms of improved engagement will be on living the core principles and values, including recognizing and rewarding role models and supporting improvement where this is necessary. 30 Strategic performance | AkzoNobel Report 2014 Processes and capabilities People, product and Operational Control Cycle In 2014, we made substantial process safety In place since 2012, this is a cycle of regular, sequenced and progress in codifying our People, product and process safety comes first at staged operational meetings. It is already having a significant impact because it incorporates structured and standardized company-wide core processes AkzoNobel. Our Safety process is aimed at managing operational discussions. The objectives of this cycle are: operational risks in all our business activities. By applying • Drive operational performance and continuous by developing supporting toolkits this AkzoNobel process consistently, rigorously and without improvement throughout the organization and across the and including our processes in exception throughout the company, we demonstrate that value chain safety is a core principle that engages and unites all of us. • Align views on the outlook going forward our corporate directives to ensure • Make relevant operational decisions to deliver on strategic appropriate governance. A high There are three main elements within the Safety process, focus areas which depend on the daily commitment of each and every level summary of each of the employee, as well as line management leadership: By employing this process, we operationally review past processes follows. • People safety is focused on increasing awareness of performance, but primarily focus on a realistic three-month behaviors that put us at risk, by establishing a culture of rolling forecast, as well as mid to longer term planning. taking care and involving all employees in This in turn helps us with our AkzoNobel value, Deliver on safety improvement commitments. By doing this, we create a review “heartbeat” In each of our Business Areas, • Process safety is focused on identifying and controlling which incorporates a monthly series of business, functional we face different market hazards in our operations by avoiding unwanted events resulting in injuries, waste or harm at manufacturing sites. and country reviews. situations, with differing critical Process safety is also fundamental to ensuring consistent reliability and productivity of assets at optimal cost and success factors. We are therefore maintaining our license to operate developing appropriate capabilities • Product safety incorporates the traditional approach of reactive regulatory compliance, but also goes beyond this, to establish and maintain a enabling us to take a lead in sustainable competitive advantage. These product stewardship capabilities are described in the In all three cases, our process steps include assessment, Business performance section. analysis, actions to remove barriers, assurance and continuous improvement. The Safety process is a permanent way of working and, in addition to setting clear process steps, we are also addressing organizational infrastructure, business enablers and culture. AkzoNobel Report 2014 | Strategic performance 31 Continuous improvement Innovation The four-stage Innovation process starts and finishes with customer input, which is consistent with our Customer To ensure that continuous improvement is embedded A Center of Expertise (CoE) for Innovation, Partnerships and focused company value. The four stages are ideation, throughout the company, we are creating a common and Complexity Reduction was established in 2014 as part of our selection and prioritization, execution, and implementation consistent approach, with standardized process methods, new Supply, Research and Development (SRD) function. and support. To support delivery of truly leading outcomes toolkits and terminology, involving employees across The SRD organization was created to enable speedier from our Innovation process, we have also strengthened the all of AkzoNobel. By introducing this approach, we will innovation-based organic growth by reinforcing the links strategic research capabilities of all three Business Areas boost organic growth and operational effectiveness while between our Research, Development and Innovation, by reconfiguring the company’s corporate Expert Capability increasing employee engagement, thereby increasing our Procurement and Supply Chain organizations. The CoE Groups, which perform longer range and underpinning competitive strength. is driving the development of a standardized, four-stage research in partnership with our businesses. Innovation process, as well as putting supporting companyThrough the Continuous improvement process, we will wide portfolio and project management tools and programs deliver both step-change improvement projects and small in place. but meaningful improvements in daily business and functional processes. The process for doing this will differ depending on the circumstances, but in all cases the main Four-stage AkzoNobel Innovation process priority is to move from our current performance to our internal best practice levels and from there to industry and Customers world class performance standards. In order to achieve this, we will utilize a robust toolset, based on Lean and Six Sigma fundamentals. For example, in Business strategies, market insights, technology roadmaps most situations we will evaluate a process based on value stream mapping to identify and address any effort which is Ideation not required for customer value, thereby creating a “lean” process. As this is closely linked to our Planet Possible Structured ideation sustainability agenda of creating more value from fewer resources, it is particularly relevant for AkzoNobel. Once Review we have ensured that the process is as lean as possible, we will use a Six Sigma approach, which seeks to improve Implementation Selection and quality by identifying and removing the causes of errors Customers and support prioritization and minimizing variability. Each Six Sigma project follows a Value optimization Portfolio management defined sequence of steps and has quantified value targets, such as reducing process cycle time, costs and resource Improve use, while improving customer satisfaction. Execution Project management Measure, analyze and report 32 Strategic performance | AkzoNobel Report 2014 Procurement Talent management In order to ensure that we also specifically identify and develop employees with potential to grow into more senior There are four primary components of our Procurement In 2014, we developed a set of tools to ensure that roles, we now use a consistent talent rating approach process – strategic sourcing, key supplier management, AkzoNobel is able to continously attract and motivate a globally which will be extended to all management levels purchase-to-pay and raw material price forecasting. highly talented workforce. over time. The rating is reviewed each year by the line Each of these elements is described in more detail below. manager and calibrated with the support of HR to ensure an Plan equitable outcome. The process is further strengthened by Strategic sourcing Human Resources (HR) business partners work within the the use of standard assessment centers to validate potential. Strategic sourcing forms the backbone of the commercial businesses on strategic workforce planning and are charged The outcome of the talent review is an individual talent profile procurement process. It starts with the requirements defined with identifying the HR needs in terms of size of workforce and development plan which is now fully shared with the by our businesses based on market demand and also and individual and collective capabilities in the context of employee in order to support greater process transparency. incorporates supplier selection and negotiation, signing and the external environment. This workforce planning process implementing contracts and reviewing results. is intended to address short-term needs, but also long-term Develop and retain requirements. At AkzoNobel, we are committed to the principle that all Key supplier management employees, at all levels of the organization, should have To support delivery of strategic sourcing, we must manage Attract, acquire and on-board the opportunity to develop. To do this, we make use our key suppliers. This allows us to jointly drive value from In many parts of the world, recruitment is now supported by of the three E’s – experience, exposure and education. innovation, sustainability, procurement, sales and supply an e-recruitment technology platform as part of an integrated Experience is the most important (roughly 70 percent of chain improvements. suite supporting our Talent management process. development), but exposure is also meaningful (roughly This ensures process standardization and helps to increase 20 percent of development) and incorporates coaching, Purchase-to-pay direct sourcing, thereby reducing costs and improving mentoring, feedback, high profile projects or short-term We are commited to increasing efficiency and control of our quality. The focus on quality and consistency of recruitment assignments. Education makes up the remaining 10 percent transactions in our purchase-to-pay process, ensuring that activities is further supported by the availability of online of the development agenda and is based on the AkzoNobel our orders are right-first-time and compliant with AkzoNobel assessment tools. Academy, along with external conferences and seminars. policies. The process starts with a disciplined creation of a purchasing requisition, continues with receiving of goods or Assess performance and potential Deploy services and is completed with the supplier payment. The assessment of individual performance within AkzoNobel Formal career and succession planning is carried out at is supported by our global Performance and Development least once a year to match an individual’s capabilities, Raw material price forecasting Dialog (P&DD) process. The P&DD process ensures that development needs and career aspirations with the Keeping our businesses well informed about expected an employee’s performance is measured against agreed company’s needs. An important aspect of this process is movements in the supply market is crucial. Buyers are objectives, which are linked to the goals of their team, and employee input. At all levels of the organization, increasing typically the first people in AkzoNobel to pick up information ultimately to the company strategy, vision and targets. emphasis is placed on creating high performing, diverse on this topic and we must have a robust process for Employees are also evaluated on how they live the company teams. All actions related to people are recorded and ensuring that it is passed on to relevant individuals, so that values and behaviors. followed up quarterly by talent managers in our global Talent they can make appropriate commercial adjustments. management Center of Expertise (CoE). AkzoNobel Report 2014 | Strategic performance 33 Buildings and Infrastructure Actions End-user segments We are active in three sub-segments: • New build projects To address our strategic focus We will only achieve our vision • Maintenance, renovation and repair areas and deliver on our vision and if our actions and processes • Building products and components targets, we have identified a set to address our strategic focus of high level actions that we are areas are delivered successfully pursuing throughout the company. to the markets via our end-user These are: Deliver dependably, segments. Analysis of the trends Grow organically, Innovate, in our four end-user segments is Simplify, Standardize and therefore a fundamental driver for Continuously improve. all that we do. All functions and businesses within the company developed specific action plans in 2013, consistent with these high level Profiles of the trends for our actions. In 2014, we made progress on implementing these four end-user segments – Consumer plans in all three Business Areas and this is explained further in the Business performance section. Buildings and Infrastructure, Transportation, Consumer Goods and Industrial – can be found on the following pages. Goods We are active in two sub-segments: • Consumer durables • Consumer packaged goods 34 Strategic performance | AkzoNobel Report 2014 Transportation We are active in three sub-segments: • Automotive repair • Automotive OEM, parts and assembly • Marine and air transport Industrial We are active in two sub-segments: • Natural resource and energy industries • Process industries AkzoNobel Report 2014 | Strategic performance 35 Buildings and Infrastructure Supplying products for the Trends However, by the end of 2014, it was A notable feature of this end-user difficult to determine whether this recovery global construction industry segment is its very strong regional component, particularly in the New build was actually occurring and, in particular, if it was as strong as it was expected to be. and home improvement projects and Maintenance, renovation and repair sub-segments. Over the last Therefore, although we continue to see robust growth estimates from analysts, sector is a vital part of our few years, market growth has been disproportionately high in countries internally, our estimates for European market growth are more conservative. business. We provide paints, such as China, India and Brazil. Looking ahead, we expect growth to fall slightly Future sustainability developments coatings and specialty in Brazil and India, while in China, growth is expected to be much lower Based on the World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) Vision chemicals that are either than it has been. In the New build projects sub-segment, this slow down is 2050, 70 percent of the world’s population will live in urban areas, while 95 percent used in the manufacture of particularly marked. Meanwhile, analysts predict that growth in the US will be higher of new building stock will use zero net energy. The proportion of buildings building and infrastructure than in Brazil, Russia and India combined, with particularly strong growth in the heated by fossil fuels will also fall below 6 percent. Sustainability issues beyond materials, or are used New build projects sub-segment. energy use and carbon emissions, such as to coat the interiors and air quality, will continue to have an impact. The outlook for Europe is much less clear. exteriors of buildings and Unlike the US – where the Buildings and Implications for strategy and actions Infrastructure end-user segment has In high growth regions, we must make other structures. more or less returned to 2008 levels – in Europe, output is still far below 2008. more use of the product and margin management approaches that we are Therefore, at the beginning of 2014, most already successfully utilizing in more analysts anticipated a return to growth in mature geographies. At the same time, we Europe. As the year progressed, analysts have to recognize that with considerable continued to forecast reasonable growth, population growth and continued with the expectation that 2008 output increases in wealth, we still have a 42% levels would be reached again in 2018 significant task in terms of market and or 2019. Growth rates were expected to brand building in these geographies. In be roughly equal in New build projects Europe we need to focus on flexibility and of revenue and Maintenance, renovation and repair, responsiveness so that we can capture with the latter of particular relevance to the growth if it does occur, but manage our activities. our costs if it does not materialize. Total construction 1 Total market new build construction 1 Total market maintenance and repair 1 Bubble size based on 2014 output $ billion, output $ billion, output Expected CAGR ’14-18 (%) China 8.6% p.a. Europe 4.9% p.a. 20 China 8.9% p.a. China Brazil Europe 4.7% p.a. Russia 10 US India US 5.9% p.a. US 8.3% p.a. Europe Brazil, Russia, India 6.8% p.a. Brazil, Russia, India 6.6% p.a. Actual CAGR ’09-14 (%) -10 0 10 20 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 1 Source: IHS/Construction IC Decorative paints (interior and exterior) Architectural powders Fire protection coatings Polymer powders for cement admixtures Wood Chemicals for Coil coatings coatings building plastics Anti-graffiti systems Protective Cellulosic chemicals in coatings decorative paint Surfactants in asphalt Solar reflective coatings AkzoNobel Report 2014 | Strategic performance 37 Transportation We supply a comprehensive Trends The most uncertain outlook in The 2008-2009 recession led to a Transportation concerns the outlook for range of advanced coatings structural change in the Automotive OEM, parts and assembly sub-segment. the Marine and air transport sub-segment. Although we anticipate reasonable growth and color technologies Although the market quickly returned to growth and recovered to pre-recession in aerospace, there is still a great deal of uncertainty around marine new build. for virtually every type of levels globally, the regional mix has changed dramatically, resulting in a knockThis particular market is late cycle cyclical, as it takes some time for the impact of transport, from ships, yachts, on impact in terms of parts production. Specific changes include: a recession to be felt, evidenced by the accompanying chart. The expectation trucks and construction • Automotive production in Europe has recovered, but not to pre-recession is that the market will return to growth in 2015. As our business today is equipment to planes, trains levels. Going forward, production growth is expected to be limited disproportionately oriented towards the new build market, this is important for and automobiles. We also • In North America, production has returned to pre-recession levels AkzoNobel. The marine maintenance market is more stable, but has also been produce a variety of specialty following a robust recovery, but growth is expected to be significantly below somewhat depressed. We expect lower oil prices to be a positive factor driving chemicals that are used in other sectors of the North American growth in maintenance going forward. the production of automotive economy • Growth in China has been considerable Future sustainability developments systems and components. and the region has outstripped North Based on the WBCSD Vision 2050, by America in terms of vehicle production. 2050, an 80 percent reduction in energy Future growth is expected to be at or use by light duty vehicles is expected, slightly below China GDP growth along with a 50 percent drop in energy use in freight transportation. It’s a different scenario in the Automotive repair sub-segment, where the key drivers Implications for strategy and actions are the number of vehicles on the road, the As production and the car park continue insurance rate and the repair rate. In terms to shift, we must ensure we are well 16% of the vehicle car park, slow, stable growth positioned geographically – both in terms continues in more mature geographies with of supply and decision-making. We also higher growth rates in countries such as need to have products with the right of revenue China and India. The expectation is that in functionality, aesthetics and price level the medium term, the number of vehicles to consistently meet requirements in this on the road in Brazil, Russia, India and demanding segment. Finally, we need the China combined will surpass first the North right organization in marine to maintain American and then the European vehicle margins and take advantage of the return car park. to growth when it occurs. 38 Strategic performance | AkzoNobel Report 2014 Light vehicle production 1 Vehicle car park 1 New build ship deliveries 2 passenger cars and light vehicles (units) passenger cars and light vehicles (units) million compensated gross tons (CGT) China 5.3% p.a. Brazil, Russia, India, China. 9.6% p.a. Delivered Forecast deliveries 30 40 60 35 Europe 1.0% p.a. 50 25 40 +10.1% p.a. -5.3% Europe 2.3% p.a. 30 North America 1.2% p.a. -21.5% 30 -4.8% +3.4% 25 20 North America 2.2% p.a. 20 10 15 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 1 Source: IHS 2 Source: Clarkson Research Services Limited Aerospace Vehicle refinish coatings paint for repairs Surfactants in fuels Specialty chemicals and lubricants used in automotive plastics Protective coatings Specialty coatings for interiors and (linings) Yacht exteriors coatings Marine Powder coatings coatings for components AkzoNobel Report 2014 | Strategic performance 39 Consumer Goods We supply coatings and Trends Future sustainability developments Growth in both population and wealth Based on the WBCSD Vision 2050, specialty chemicals used in countries such as China and India – combined with strong global demand consumer durables are expected to last longer, with package recycling being in a variety of consumer for new products such as smartphones and tablets – has resulted in substantial integrated into business models. By 2050, it is forecast that people will only use five goods, including consumer historical global growth in many parts of the Consumer durables sub-segment. tons of non-renewable materials each, down from today’s 85 tons (US). electronics, furniture, The outlook going forward is also generally positive. In terms of production, there Implications for strategy and actions domestic appliances, food has been a shift in most sectors to high growth countries. For example, there is Given the shift in geography in many parts of the Consumer durables sub-segment, and beverage, personal care now more production in Brazil, Russia, India and China alone than there is in we need to ensure that we have the right production, sales and technical service and cleaning. Our specialty North America and Western Europe combined for domestic appliances. Growth organizations in high growth countries, and that these organizations are working chemicals are either vital to rates and expected growth rates are also substantially higher in non-Western effectively across regions in terms of design and key account management the production process or regions. However, it is worth noting that in where appropriate. At the same time, we are key functional ingredients. many cases, design and decision-making have to continue restructuring our sales processes are often still based in North and production in more mature markets. Our coatings play an America or Western Europe. We also need differentiated business models with appropriate value and cost aesthetic and protective role. Other areas of the Consumer durables sub-segment such as furniture production, trade-offs to serve both premium and mass markets. Finally, we must ensure an important market for AkzoNobel, that our products provide new or better display a different pattern, more similar to functionality, particularly with regard the production and growth patterns that to sustainability. we see in the Consumer packaged goods sub-segment. As a general rule, Consumer 17% packaged goods are much more stable and less cyclical in terms of demand, but also tend to be lower growth. In addition, of revenue the very large base of installed production in North America and Europe means that while growth is lower in these regions, production in Europe and North America still outstrips production in high growth countries, and this will continue in the medium term. 40 Strategic performance | AkzoNobel Report 2014 Domestic appliance production 1 Furniture production 1 Food and beverage production 1 $ billion, value added $ billion, value added $ billion, value added 80 50 Brazil, Russia, India, China 4.6% p.a. Western Europe and North America 1.9% p.a. 60 Western Europe and North America 1.9% p.a. 70 50 40 60 Brazil, Russia, India, China 5.4% p.a. Western Europe and North America 1.8% p.a. 40 Brazil, Russia, India, China 5.2% p.a. 50 30 40 20 30 30 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 1 Source: Oxford Economics Packaging Wood Specialty coatings Surfactants used in cleaning and personal finishes finishes care products Chelates in Salt Sports equipment dishwasher Powder coatings detergents coatings Powder coatings Wood finishes AkzoNobel Report 2014 | Strategic performance 41 Industrial We supply specialty chemicals Trends Given our strong position in pulp bleaching There is more uncertainty today in the chemicals, this is also an important part for oil and gas, metals Natural resource and energy industries sub-segment than there has been in the of the Process industries sub-segment for AkzoNobel. Pulp bleaching continues and mining, electricity/ recent past due to the much lower oil prices seen towards the end of 2014. to contract in North America and the growth rate in Europe is low. Globally, the utilities, agriculture, chemical Most analysts are predicting a fairly rapid rebound, but the outlook is quite unclear main region for growth is South America, which continues to grow in a consistent manufacturing and pulp as we go to print. If the market remains in over-supply and prices remain low, this and stable manner. This is a positive development for AkzoNobel, as we and paper. They play an will eventually have an impact on demand for chemicals used in extraction and even have a strong position in pulp bleaching chemicals in South America. important functional role coatings used in major oil-related projects. On the other hand, demand for more Future sustainability developments during production or in the environmentally-friendly solutions and technologies that lower extraction costs Based on the WBCSD Vision 2050, a four to ten-fold improvement is expected in the end product. We also sell is likely to remain robust. Furthermore, most oil and gas projects are major, multieco-efficiency of resources and materials by 2050. Closed loop processes will liquid protective and powder year activities so the likelihood is that increasingly lead to a reduction in waste coatings, which are largely the impact on demand in the short term that goes to landfill. will be limited. used for their functional Implications for strategy and actions In the Process industries sub-segment, As growth rates slow, we must continue benefits, such as fire and growth has moderated in China, but is still high compared with most geographies. to improve productivity and innovation rates to remain competitive. In particular, corrosion protection. In North America, the growth outlook in chemicals is also quite positive, due in with limited growth in Europe, we must continue to optimize our manufacturing part to the impact of shale gas. Analysts footprint in the region. At the same time, believe that China has now surpassed we need to be prepared to capitalize on North America in terms of chemicals growth opportunities where they do exist, 25% value added, and although growth rates such as chemicals in China and North going forward in China are expected to America and pulp in South America. While be much lower than they have been in the we do this, we clearly have to continue to of revenue recent past, they are still higher than North improve in terms of sustainability levels American growth rates and much higher throughout the value chain. than European growth rates. 42 Strategic performance | AkzoNobel Report 2014 Energy and utilities 1 Chemical production 2 Bleached pulp production 3 $ billion, value added $ billion, value added million tons 200 China 7.8% p.a. 300 China 6.5% p.a. North America -1.7% p.a. 250 150 North America 3.9% p.a. 200 North America 4.1% p.a. Asia 3.5% p.a. Western Europe 1.6% p.a. 150 Europe 1.6% p.a. 100 Brazil, Russia, India 8.7% p.a. 100 Brazil, Russia, India 3.6% p.a. South America 5.6% p.a. Europe excl. Russia 4.4% p.a. 50 50 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 1 Source: Business Monitor International 2 Source: Oxford Economics 3 Source: RISI Caustic soda De-icing salt Organic Functional powder Protective peroxides coatings used in pipes coatings Metal alkyls Surfactants and Chlorine Bleaching chemicals chelates for well stimulation Ethylene amines PLASTICS PULP AkzoNobel Report 2014 | Strategic performance 43 Strategic targets: 2014 financial performance Return on sales (ROS) Return on investment (ROI) Net debt/EBITDA We use return on sales (ROS) as a performance indicator We use return on investment (ROI) as a performance Net debt/EBITDA reflects our strategy to maintain a strong to reflect profitability relative to revenue. ROS as a target will indicator to reflect profit relative to invested capital. ROI as investment grade rating (or credit rating). focus management on delivery and quality of profits. a target will focus management on delivering value through ROS is defined as operating income as percentage returns in excess of our cost of capital. ROI is defined as Continued overachievement of our 2015 target of revenue. operating income divided by average invested capital. • EBITDA increased significantly due to lower costs and restructuring charges Progress towards our 2015 target Progress towards our 2015 target • Very slight increase in net debt compared with the • Modest volume growth • Capital expenditures lower than 2013 previous year • Robust operating expenditure cost control • Operating working capital slightly higher than 2013 • Restructuring costs significantly down compared with 2013 • Excluding incidental items, ROS was 7.5 percent (2013: 6.1 percent) Target 9.0% 14.0% <2.0 Return on sales (ROS) development Return on investment (ROI) development Net debt/EBITDA Operating income in % of revenue Operating income/average invested capital in % Ratio <2.0 9.0 14.0 6.6 6.9 10.0 1.4 5.9* 8.9* 9.6 1.0 1.0 2012 2013 2014 2015 2012 2013 2014 2015 2012 2013 2014 2015 *Excluding an impairment in Decorative Paints of €2,106 million. 44 Strategic performance | AkzoNobel Report 2014 Strategic targets: 2014 sustainability performance Eco-premium solutions with Cradle-to-grave carbon footprint Resource Efficiency Index (REI) customer benefits Our ambition is to reduce our cradle-to-grave carbon The Resource Efficiency Index is defined as gross margin Our 2020 target is to achieve 20 percent of revenue from footprint by 25-30 percent per ton of sales between 2012 divided by cradle-to-grave carbon footprint – reported as an products and services which provide customers and and 2020. index. We are initially monitoring this index, and our aim is consumers in our downstream value chain with a significant to use it to drive further improvements in resource efficiency sustainability advantage compared with the most commonly Significant improvement required to reach across the value chain. available equivalent commercial products or the 2020 target industrial processes. • Carbon footprint per ton of sold product has increased, Significant improvement required although absolute footprint is down 2 percent since 2012 • Improvements in energy efficiency based on renewable Continued steady progress towards our 2020 target • Solid improvement in some areas due to lower footprint and low carbon energy supply • Percentage of revenue from eco-premium products and energy contracts and facility efficiency improvements • Ongoing switch towards waterborne coatings and margin services with downstream benefits slightly higher • However, unfavorable energy source changes in Europe improvements as a result of higher value added products than 2013 and a significant product mix effect limited the impact of • However, squeezed margins, demand for higher footprint • Increase came from a combination of new products and these improvements products and changes in regional energy sourcing have growth in revenue from existing products in Specialty had a negative impact Chemicals and Performance Coatings 20% 25-30% Eco-premium solutions with customer benefits Cradle-to-grave carbon footprint Resource Efficiency Index in % of revenue % reduction CO2(e) per ton of sales from 2012 gross margin/CO2(e) indexed 20 25 30 100 98 19 95 94 96 18 90 17 -4 0 2 2012 2013 2014 2020 2012 2013 2014 2020 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 For more details see Sustainability statements Note 4. For more details see Sustainability statements Note 5. For more details see Sustainability statements Value chain chapter. AkzoNobel Report 2014 | Strategic performance 45 How we created value in 2014 Revenue development in % versus 2013 By bringing more value to our Economic value customers, investors, employees Financial overview Increase Decrease and society in general, we can 2014 revenue was down 2 percent, with volume up 4 1 percent in all Business Areas, more than offset by adverse better position ourselves for currency effects and divestments. Operating income was 2 +1% 0% -1% -2% -2% growth and achieve our strategic up 3 percent at €987 million, due to higher operating results 0 and lower restructuring charges, offset by higher incidental vision of leading market positions charges. Excluding incidental items, ROS was 7.5 percent -2 delivering leading performance. (2013: 6.1 percent). ROI was 10.0 percent (2013: 9.6 percent). We are on track to deliver our 2015 targets. -4 Volume Price/mix Acquisitions/ Exchange Total divestments rates Summary of financial outcomes In € millions 2013 2014 ∆% Revenue by region in % Revenue 14,590 14,296 (2) Operating income 958 987 3 Operating income excluding 897 1,072 20 incidental items F E Operating income excl. incidental 1,245 1,325 6 items and restructuring charges D A Mature Europe 37 A ROS (in %) 6.6 6.9 B Asia Pacific 26 ROS excl. incidental items (in %) 6.1 7.5 C North America 15 C D Latin America 10 Average invested capital 10,007 9,871 E Emerging Europe 8 Moving average ROI (in %) 9.6 10.0 B F Other countries 4 EBITDA 1,513 1,690 12 Capital expenditures 666 588 (12) Net cash from operating activities 716 811 13 Revenue in € millions Net debt 1,529 1,606 Decorative Paints Performance Coatings Specialty Chemicals Net income attributable to 724 546 shareholders 5,543 4,949 4,883 Earnings per share from 3.00 2.23 total operations (in €) 5,702 5,571 5,589 Adjusted earnings per share (in €) 2.62 2.81 Number of employees 49,600 47,200 (5) 4,297 4,174 3,909 2012 2013 2014 46 Strategic performance | AkzoNobel Report 2014 Revenue Operating income Operating income in € millions Revenue was down 2 percent, with volume up 1 percent in all Operating income increased 3 percent to €987 million, due Decorative Paints Performance Coatings Specialty Chemicals Business Areas, more than offset by adverse currency effects to higher operating results and lower restructuring charges, and divestments. offset by higher incidental items (€85 million adverse items in • Volumes in Decorative Paints were up 1 percent. 2014 and €61 million favorable items in 2013). The incidental 508 297 500 Revenue declined 6 percent compared with 2013 due charges in 2014 related to an external fraud suffered by one to divestments, adverse currency effects and an adverse of our subsidiaries in the US, provisions for legacy items 525 545 price/mix effect. The latter was mainly driven by the sale of and project costs related to a divestment. Restructuring 542 the German stores charges in 2014 were €253 million (2013: €348 million). The 398 • Volumes in Performance Coatings were up 1 percent, majority of the restructuring charges related to Performance 248 94 1 mainly from growth in Marine and Protective Coatings and Coatings. 2012 2013 2014 Powder Coatings. Revenue was flat compared with the • In Decorative Paints, operating income in 2013 included 1 Excluding goodwill impairment. previous year due to adverse currencies the gain of €198 million from the divestment of Building • Volumes in Specialty Chemicals were up 1 percent. Adhesives. Excluding this effect, operating income Revenue was 1 percent lower due to price pressure in improved. Restructuring charges were lower than the Cash flows and net debt caustic and unfavorable currency developments during the previous year. In addition, costs were down following Operating activities in 2014 resulted in cash inflows of first half of the year, as well as some interruptions in supply the implementation of restructuring programs and strict €811 million (2013: €716 million). Profit from continuing chain and manufacturing. cost control operations was lower in 2014, however, the comparative • In Performance Coatings, operating income increased for 2013 included a non-cash gain from deferred tax of Divestments 4 percent compared with 2013. Improved operational €124 million. Net debt at year-end 2014 of €1,606 million • On October 1, 2013, the divestment of Building Adhesives effectiveness more than compensated for increased was slightly up on 2013 (€1,529 million). Cash outflows for was completed, which accounts for the divestment impact restructuring charges. A major restructuring activity was discontinued operations of €88 million mainly related to a in Decorative Paints. In addition, the sale of the German the implementation of a new organizational structure with settlement of a case following the divestment of Organon stores was concluded, which did not have a revenue fewer management layers and clearer accountability BioSciences in 2007. impact in divestments but in price/mix • Specialty Chemicals increased profitability over the • The divestment of the Primary Amides and Purate previous year, with significant savings from restructuring Early in 2014, a €825 million bond was repaid from existing businesses was completed in 2013, and accounts programs. Operating income in 2013 was affected by resources. In November 2014, a €500 million bond was for the divestment impact in Specialty Chemicals €121 million incidental charges issued with a ten-year maturity, at a coupon of • Specialty Chemicals announced the intended sale of its 1.75 percent. The new bond issue extends the duration of Paper Chemicals portfolio for €153 million. The business Average raw material costs were stable compared with 2013 the overall bond portfolio, taking advantage of favorable is currently part of Pulp and Performance Chemicals. exit prices. In some high growth markets, currency effects on market conditions and historically low interest rates. We The transaction is expected to be completed in imported raw materials have affected some businesses. are committed to maintaining a strong investment grade 2015, subject to regular consultation with employee credit rating. Currently, the company has a BBB+ rating with representatives and satisfaction of closing conditions Standard & Poor’s and a Baa1 rating with Moody’s. such as receipt of required regulatory clearances AkzoNobel Report 2014 | Strategic performance 47 Invested capital Innovation Dividend Invested capital at year-end 2014 totaled €9.9 billion, up We continue to invest in Research, Development and Our dividend policy is to pay a stable to rising dividend. We €0.6 billion on year-end 2013. Invested capital was primarily Innovation to fulfill future customer needs and fuel our will propose a 2014 final dividend of €1.12 per share, which impacted by foreign currency effects of €0.4 billion due to targeted growth in revenue share of eco-premium solutions would make a total 2014 dividend of €1.45 (2013: €1.45) the weaker euro. with customer benefits. per share. There will be a stock dividend option with cash dividend as default. We are prioritizing our investments given our focus on cash and return on investment. During 2014, we invested an Innovation investments amount of €588 million (2013: €666 million), or 4.1 percent research and development expenses in € millions Dividend in € of revenue (2013: 4.6 percent). We intend to align our future capital expenditures with depreciation, and to invest 40-50 384 373 363 percent in growth. 1.45 1.45 1.45 Capital expenditures 2014 100% = €588 million (4.1% of revenue) 2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 Eco-premium solutions A We maintain our intention to lead by example in the area of A Decorative Paints 25 improving the sustainability and environmental performance Earnings per share total operations in € B Performance Coatings 25 of our products and processes, which we measure through C Specialty Chemicals 50 C our development of eco-premium solutions. They are 3.00 a fundamental driver of our Planet Possible agenda for 2.23 B creating more value from fewer resources and minimizing the environmental impact/footprint of the products we sell and the processes we use to manufacture them. (8.82) 2012 2013 2014 Eco-premium solutions with customer benefits in % of revenue Target 19 20 17 18 2012 2013 2014 2020 Although it may appear that we are already close to realizing our 2020 target of 20 percent of revenue, it should be noted that our year-on-year progress will be impacted not only by our own innovation drive, but also by competitor activity and legislation changes. Furthermore, the introduction of new products into the market whose performances equal those of our current eco-premium solutions offering will redefine the standards that we will have to surpass, to acquire future eco-premium solutions status. For more details see Sustainability statements Note 4. 48 Strategic performance | AkzoNobel Report 2014 Interest Environmental value Energy Net financing expenses decreased, mainly due to lower Renewable energy is an important aspect of the interest expenses on net debt as a result of repayment of Cradle-to-grave carbon footprint improvements required to achieve our 2020 strategic carbon high interest bonds. This positive effect is partly offset by Our ambition is to reduce our cradle-to-grave carbon footprint target. Our Renewable Energy Supply Strategy (non-cash) higher interest on provisions. For the full-year, net footprint by 25-30 percent per ton of sales between 2012 has three focus areas: protecting our current renewable financing expenses decreased by €44 million to €156 million. and 2020. We have made some good improvements. share, participating in cost effective, large energy ventures, New power contracts in, for example, Moses Lake and and exploring commercially feasible on-site renewable Income tax Columbus, US, and increased production in our Chemical energy generation. The full-year effective tax rate was 30 percent (2013: Islands (using renewable power) have reduced the footprint 30 percent adjusted for an incidental non-cash tax gain of significantly. Energy efficiency has been improved at several €124 million and several non-taxable items). production sites, such as Ningbo in China and Columbus Total energy in % by source in the US. However, these improvements have been E outweighed by changes in product mix, a deterioration of Income tax paid in € millions power mix in Germany and lower utilization of our Combined D Heat and Power (CHP) unit in the Netherlands, leading to the use of more power from the Dutch grid. A A Renewable energy 34 258 230 C B Natural gas 36 209 C Coal 15 Cradle-to-grave carbon footprint D Nuclear 13 % reduction CO2(e) per ton of sales from 2012 E Other fossil fuels 2 2012 2013 2014 Target B Outlook We anticipate that significant developments in raw material 25 30 For more details see Sustainability statements Notes 5 and 15. prices, combined with relevant exchange rate movements and lower growth rates in high growth economies, will principally determine the dynamics of 2015. The preparations, made in -4 2013 and 2014 will form a sound basis for further improve0 2 ments in 2015. The company remains on track to deliver its 2012 2013 2014 2020 targets for 2015. For more details see Sustainability statements Note 5. AkzoNobel Report 2014 | Strategic performance 49 Raw materials Operational eco-efficiency program Waste Bio-based raw materials are an important contributor to our The focus of the Operational eco-efficiency (OEE) agenda Effective waste management helps to increase raw material sustainability agenda; a considerable share of AkzoNobel’s is to increase raw material efficiency, reduce consumption efficiency in our manufacturing operations, while reducing environmental footprint is embodied in the raw materials we of energy, decrease emissions and production of waste. both our environmental footprint and costs. We have buy, and most bio-based materials exhibit lower footprints. Improvements include many small site contributions, moved our focus from managing/reducing total waste to While many of our materials are already bio-based, we are upgrading existing processes, rationalization of the eliminating waste by increasing material efficiency. The focus also seeing the construction and commissioning of the manufacturing footprint and application of best available on waste over past years resulted in a reduction in waste at first commercial scale production facilities for several new technology for new investments. the majority of our sites. additional bio-based raw materials. In order to lead the deployment of these materials in our markets, we have been setting up partnerships across our supply chain. OEE footprint improvement Total waste (% reduction from 2009) in kilotons Target Reusable Total kg per ton of production Total volume of raw materials Non-reusable in % per source 40 30 250 13%* 15 24 24 A 11.6 200 11.0 12 11 13 7 9.0 150 8.6 9 *13 percent of organic 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2017 C 100 6 raw materials are from 121 118 B 96 96 renewable sources. The OEE footprint is calculated from the weighted average of nine footprint parameters 50 85 77 72 3 and production volume. Fore more details see Sustainability statements 65 Environment chapter. 0 0 2011 2012 2013 2014 Waste means any substance or object arising from our routine operations which we discard or intend to discard, or we are required to discard. Reusable waste is waste A Renewable raw materials (bio-based) 7 which is used e.g. for resource recovery, recycling, reclamation, direct re-use or B Fossil-derived materials (petrochemicals) 44 alternative uses e.g. composting. All other waste is non-reusable waste. Fore more details see Sustainability statements Note 18. C Inorganic materials (e.g. salt, minerals, clays) 49 50 Strategic performance | AkzoNobel Report 2014 Social value Employee engagement Community involvement One of our key measures of progress in the area of culture Our Community Program encourages sites and individuals At year-end 2014, the workforce amounted to is employee engagement which we measure through an to take part in projects where our products/resources and 47,200 employees (year-end 2013: 49,600 employees). employee engagement survey. Compared with last year’s the skills and knowledge of employees can benefit the The decrease was mainly due to: results, we’ve seen an increase in engagement. In the wider community on a sustainable basis. In the past nine • A decrease of 400 employees due to divestments context of our ongoing change and restructuring, this is years, the program has become firmly embedded in our • A decrease of 2,000 employees due to a positive signal. Engagement has increased every year since worldwide organization. ongoing restructuring we started the survey in 2010. We continued restructuring activities during 2014 in Cumulative Community Program involvement all Business Areas. We will continue to centralize and ViewPoint score employee engagement (cumulative since 2005) outsource back office activities throughout the world. (1 to 5 scale) Target Projects (number) Support (€ million) Volunteers (number) 3.80 3.88 3.97 >4.00 15.0 3.74 14000 Employees 14.0 15 47,200 at year-end 2014 13.0 13,500 12000 12.5 11.5 10000 11,000 10 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 8000 9,000 Employees by Business Area 8,000 7.5 For more details see Sustainability statements Note 12. 6000 D 5 A Decorative Paints 32% 4000 C Safety B Performance Coatings 43% A Overall performance indicators for people safety show 2000 2.5 C Specialty Chemicals 21% 2,260 that we have achieved our 2015 target a year early. 1,678 1,931 2,108 D Other 4% 0 0 Implementation of the people safety programs coincides with a continued decrease in the number of injuries to 2011 2012 2013 2014 employees and supervised and independent contractors. For more details see Sustainability statements Note 14. B Employee and supervised contractors total reportable injuries injury rate Target 3.1 2.4 2.3 1.8 <2.0 <1.0 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2020 For more details see Sustainability statements Note 8. AkzoNobel Report 2014 | Strategic performance 51 Risk management Doing business inherently involves Supervisory taking risks. By taking balanced Board risks we strive to be a sustainable Enterprise company. Risk management is an Risk Management essential element of our process Executive Committee corporate governance and Top 10 risk + Risk response strategy development. Business Areas/Corporate We continuously strive to foster a high awareness of Risk identification functions/Countries business risks and internal control, geared towards and assessment Top 10 risk + Risk response preserving our risk appetite and providing transparency in our operations. The Executive Committee is responsible for managing the risks associated with our activities and, in turn, for the establishment and adequate functioning Business units Risk profile of appropriate risk management and control systems Top 10 risk + Risk response (see Statement of the Board of Management in the Leadership section). Risk response Areas of major risk exposure per risk profile (businesses, projects, sites etc.) Top 10 risk + Risk response Actions Enterprise Risk Management reporting Risk profile + Risk response Risk consolidation Risk transparency 52 Strategic performance | AkzoNobel Report 2014 Our risk management • Financial: With respect to financial risks, we have a In the fourth quarter of 2014, one of our subsidiaries located framework prudent financing strategy and a strict cash management policy and are committed to maintaining strong investment in Chicago (US) was targeted by an external fraud. The fraud involved international wire transfers totaling an amount Through our risk management framework, we seek to grade credit ratings. Our financial risk management and of €51 million in reported currencies. When detected, provide reasonable assurance that our business objectives risk appetite are explained in more detail in Note 23 of the immediate actions were taken including contacting and can be achieved and our obligations to customers, Consolidated financial statements working with appropriate law enforcement authorities. shareholders, employees and society can be met. Our • Compliance: We do not permit our employees to take Independent legal counsel, assisted by an independent audit risk management framework is in line with the Enterprise any compliance risk and have a zero tolerance policy in firm, was assigned to investigate the matter, which was Risk Management – Integrated Framework of COSO and relation to breaches of our Code of Conduct. See the an isolated event not linked in any way to the operational the Dutch Corporate Governance Code. The Executive Governance and compliance section for more details activities of the company and our businesses. Customary Committee reviews our risk management process, and appropriate controls were in place and were breached. control systems and our major business risks, which are An extensive fraud awareness campaign was started and a subsequently reviewed by the Supervisory Board. Risk management in 2014 plan to reinforce controls was launched. We believe that we will be able to reduce the ultimate financial impact. Enterprise Risk Management is a company-wide driven Risk appetite activity under the responsibility of the Executive Committee Under the explicit understanding that this is not an that includes a bottom-up process which aims to provide exhaustive list, the major risk factors that may prevent Clarity on risk appetite, along with the boundaries that full coverage of the organization and ensure that we focus full achievement of our strategic ambitions and the determine the freedom of action or choice in terms of risk on the areas of major risk exposure. The scoping of our corresponding mitigating actions are listed in detail in this taking and risk acceptance, is provided to all managers. 2014 risk management activities was performed by the chapter. Where references are made to functional and Risk boundaries are set by our strategy, Code of Conduct, Executive Committee, Business Area and business unit process improvement initiatives, more detailed information core principles and values, authority schedules, policies and Managing Directors and Corporate Directors, in association can be found earlier in this section. There may be current corporate directives. Our risk appetite differs by objective with the risk management function. In addition to focusing risks that the company has not fully assessed, or that are area and type of risk: on the coverage of our organization, emphasis is put on currently identified as not having a significant impact on the organizational changes, key strategic projects and high business, but which, at a later stage, could develop into a • Strategic: In pursuing our strategic ambitions, we are growth regions. material impact. The company’s risk management systems prepared to take considerable risk related to achieving endeavor to ensure the timely discovery of such incidents. our performance, innovation and sustainability objectives. During the year, we facilitated 87 Enterprise Risk Returns on investment in the development of innovative Management workshops. In these workshops, almost 1,800 products and sustainable solutions are never certain. unique risk scenarios were identified and prioritized by the Yet considerable funds and effort is spent on research, responsible management teams and functional experts. All development and innovation, even in less certain major risks were responded to by the unit that identified economic circumstances them. The outcome of all risk assessments was reported to • Operational: With respect to operational risks, we seek to the next higher management level. Risk profiles and trends minimize the downside risk from the impact of unforeseen were shared by managers across the company. In the operational failures within our businesses bottom-up consolidation process, the risks were taken to the next management level, where they were re-assessed, either because of the materiality of the risk exposure and/or because of the accumulated effect. AkzoNobel Report 2014 | Strategic performance 53 The table below summarizes the major risks for the company. The symbols represent External Strategic management’s assessment of how these risks are expected to develop compared with the previous year. Worsening of economic conditions External – Strategic Internal – Strategic The global economy remains fragile and it continues to be • Worsening of economic conditions • Innovation and identification of major difficult to predict customer demand and raw material costs. • International operations transforming technologies AkzoNobel is susceptible to decreased growth rates within high growth markets and/or continued economic and market External – Operational Internal – Operational downturn in mature markets. The effects could lead to a • Energy pricing and emission trading • Attraction and retention of talent decline in demand and deteriorating financial results, which rights • Production process risks in turn could result in the company not realizing its financial • Sourcing of raw materials • Management of change targets. • Product liability • Environmental liabilities Mitigating actions • Information Technology • Execute our strategy to bring down our operational cost base and reduce complexity External – Financial • Continue the implementation of Global Business Services • Post-retirement benefits aimed at standardized core functional processes in all • Free cash flow generation regions across the organization • Fluctuations in exchange rates • Further deploy the commercial excellence programs • Decline of asset values to capture organic growth and offset the effects of decreasing economic growth rates External – Compliance • Complying with laws and regulations Risk has been assessed to increase Risk has been assessed to decrease Risk has been assessed to remain fairly stable 54 Strategic performance | AkzoNobel Report 2014 External Strategic External Operational External Operational International operations Energy pricing and Sourcing of raw materials emission trading rights We are a global business with operations in more than Our Specialty Chemicals business operates two energyPrices for key raw materials can be volatile and are affected 80 countries. We are therefore exposed to a variety of risks, intensive businesses, Pulp and Performance Chemicals by economic conditions. The table below shows our relative many of them beyond our control. Unfavorable political, and Industrial Chemicals. The latter conducts its business spend on these key raw materials, excluding energy. social or economic developments and developments in primarily in Europe. A non-level playing field for energy on We may also be impacted by inability to access sufficient raw laws, regulations and standards could adversely affect our a global level (e.g. shale gas, national policies, subsidies) materials, business interruption or product discontinuation business and results of operations. Our aspirations to fuel and emission trading rights can affect the competitive at key suppliers. These potential circumstances may growth in high growth markets will further expose us to position of these businesses and the competitive position increase cost and expenses for raw materials and energy. these risks. of our customers. Mitigating actions Mitigating actions Mitigating actions • Periodically review all critical raw materials, with the aim • Strategically spread our activities geographically and serve • Continue to analyze and review our competitive positions of bundling the purchasing power in both product related many sectors to benefit from opportunities and reduce the and proactively manage energy usage and costs and non-product related requirements risk of instability • Implement our Carbon Policy and work on energy • Use our purchasing power and long-term supplier • Carefully monitor the political, economic and legislative efficiency programs relationships to acquire raw materials and safeguard their conditions across the company • Diversify our energy source portfolio to reduce the amount constant delivery in a sustainable manner • All significant investments, and the countries and industry of gas-based heat • Implement plans to mitigate dependencies brought about segments in which AkzoNobel conducts its business, • Closely monitor and manage our carbon management by single sourced raw materials are decided on by the Executive Committee plans. We have policies for energy contracts and long• Monitor our critical value chains to understand the critical • Country organizations are in place in order to mitigate term purchase contracts in place (see Note 23 of the suppliers and markets of our suppliers to detect risks and country-specific and generic business risks Consolidated financial statements) opportunities at an earlier stage Breakdown of total raw material spend in % A Chemicals & intermediates 24 H B Resins 22 G A C Additives 14 F D Solvents 10 E Coatings specialties 9 E F Packaging 9 G Titanium dioxide 8 D B H Pigments 4 C AkzoNobel Report 2014 | Strategic performance 55 External Operational External Operational External Operational Product liability Environmental liabilities Information Technology Product liability claims could adversely affect our company’s We use, and have used in the past, hazardous materials, An effect of AkzoNobel’s longer term Information Technology business and results of operations. Unlikely long-term organic and inorganic compounds in product development strategy is that our IT landscape is converging into implications with a high impact for our organization could programs and manufacturing processes. We have been, fewer ERP systems and other critical applications. The follow from the use of former, current or new technologies and can still be, exposed to risks of contamination and amount of digital exchanges of business transactions with and compounds. substantial claims due to potential non-compliance with customers, suppliers and other stakeholders is increasing. environmental laws, regulatory enforcement, property Non-availability of our critical IT systems or unauthorized Mitigating actions damage and personal injury. Regulations and standards access, through cybercrime or other events, can have a • Quality improvement programs are in place in our different are becoming increasingly stringent. direct effect on our production processes, our competitive Business Areas position and the reputation of the company. • Product stewardship is embedded in the company’s HSE Mitigating actions and sustainability agenda. Product stewardship is also • Conduct all our activities in the safest and most Risk corrective actions integrated into product slate decisions responsible manner. We have a specialist group managing • Continuously test and update the systems used for • We also have a central policy to optimize insurance these issues information security coverage which relates to specific insurance programs • Contingency plans and assignment arrangements are • Further implement measures such as redundant design, covering product liability in place to mitigate known risks and regular reviews are back-up processes, virus protection, anti-spoofing and conducted to monitor progress and assess financial and forensic scans reputational exposure • Centrally monitor access control processes to our key IT • Accrue and charge environmental clean-up costs or systems indemnifications against earnings when it is probable that • A company-wide directive describing the rules regarding a potential liability has materialized and an amount can Information Management was issued in 2014 be reliably estimated (see Note 20 of the Consolidated financial statements) 56 Strategic performance | AkzoNobel Report 2014 External Financial External Financial External Financial Post-retirement benefits Free cash flow generation Fluctuations in exchange rates Our current policy is to sponsor defined contribution pension The potential for further deterioration of economic conditions Exchange rate fluctuations can have a harmful impact and other post-retirement benefit plans wherever possible, could have an impact on the free cash flow generation of on our financial results. We have operations in more but we still have a number of defined benefit pension our businesses. Furthermore, we are potentially exposed than 80 countries and report in euros. We are particularly and healthcare schemes from the past. Generally, these to additional funding of pension schemes. This may lead sensitive to adverse movements in the US dollar, Pound schemes have been funded through external trusts or to insufficient free cash flow generation, which limits our sterling, Swedish krona and Latin American and Asian foundations, where AkzoNobel faces the potential risk of strategic degrees of freedom. currencies. funding shortfalls. Mitigating actions Mitigating actions Mitigating actions • Maintain a strong investment grade credit rating; our long• A centralized treasury and hedging policy is in place for • Our policy is to offer defined contribution schemes to new term senior unsecured debt rating is BBB+ by Standard & certain currency exchange rate risks (see Note 23 of the employees and, where appropriate, to existing employees. Poor’s and Baa1 by Moody’s Consolidated financial statements) The most significant defined benefit schemes are the • Focus on cash management is stressed in our monthly • At a more operational level, risks are reduced by the ICI Pension Fund and the AkzoNobel (CPS) Pension Operational Control Cycle meetings and relevant metrics prevalence of local-for-local production, which is the norm Scheme in the UK. Both are closed to new entrants. are included in our remuneration policies in many of our businesses They are managed and controlled by independent • Engage in restructuring of underperforming parts of our trustees. The funded status of these schemes is affected portfolio if deemed strategically appropriate by the trustees’ investment decisions, market conditions, • We have a prudent financing strategy and a strict demographic experience and any regulatory actions. cash management policy, which are governed by our This may require additional funding from the former centralized treasury function employing entities and may adversely impact our business and results • We practice proactive pension risk management and continuously review options to reduce the financial risks associated with all of our defined benefit plans (see Note 15 of the Consolidated financial statements) AkzoNobel Report 2014 | Strategic performance 57 External Financial External Compliance Internal Strategic Decline of asset values Complying with laws Innovation and identification of and regulations major transforming technologies Impairments and book losses could adversely affect our We may be held responsible for any liabilities arising out of Our success depends on the sustainable growth of our financial results. non-compliance with laws and regulations. business through research, development and innovation. If we are not able to identify and adopt major transforming Mitigating actions Mitigating actions technologies in a timely manner, this may lead to the loss of • Perform impairment tests for intangibles with indefinite • Monitor and adapt to significant changes in the legal our leadership positions and adversely affect our business. lives (goodwill, some brands) every year and whenever systems, regulatory controls, customs and practices in the an impairment trigger exists. For tangibles and other fixed countries in which we operate Mitigating actions assets, impairment tests are only carried out whenever • Remain dedicated to minimizing AkzoNobel’s compliance • Support continuous research and development through an impairment trigger exists (see Notes 7 and 8 of the risk by fostering an open and transparent culture, a spend of 2.5 percent (€363 million) of total revenue Consolidated financial statements) continuously educating our employees worldwide and • Maintain the use of our detailed technology roadmaps, • Continuous monitoring of acquisition and divestment increasing awareness which assess relevant technological horizons and opportunities and the management of assets held for sale • Monitor overall compliance through our comprehensive pathways to acquire and detail new technologies are performed by the Executive Committee annual non-financial letter of representation process, as • Promote our global open innovation capability well as our annual competition law compliance declaration to identify, assess and acquire the most recent • Embed company-wide standard setting and compliance promising technologies awareness through activities and training programs 58 Strategic performance | AkzoNobel Report 2014 Internal Operational Internal Operational Internal Operational Attraction and retention Production process risks Management of change of talent Having the right people, with the right capabilities, Risks in production processes can adversely affect our In order to implement our overall strategy, we have experience and mindset can, to a large extent, determine results. They arise from areas such as personal health implemented, and continue to implement, numerous the success of our organization. and safety, process safety and product safety. Unlikely changes in our operating model. We are also undertaking scenarios can involve major incidents with a high impact various restructuring projects which require significant Mitigating actions on our organization, causing business continuity risks and change. Failure to successfully execute these initiatives could • Continue the roll out our Talent management process, reputational damage. lead to industrial action and, ultimately, to not achieving our initiated in 2013 strategic ambitions. • Establish a more rigorous and differentiated assessment Mitigating actions of performance, with enhanced focus on alignment with • Project ALPS has been implemented to reduce process Mitigating actions AkzoNobel’s core principles and values complexity and drive continuous improvement • To accelerate the implementation of our strategy we have • Further develop the AkzoNobel Academy aimed at • Continue the implementation of the Process Safety introduced core principles and values intended to set increasing functional capabilities across the company and Management (PSM) framework, which was introduced in the desired behavioral changes in motion. The values sharing best practices 2014. The framework provides a set of minimum safety and behaviors have been included in the performance requirements for all our sites management process • Carry on with business continuity planning and make sure • Senior management is involved in all critical projects that there are appropriate risk transfer arrangements in place have been prioritized and are supervised by the Executive Committee to ensure an aligned and integrated vision for the company’s change agenda • Project management and change management are both included in the curriculum of the AkzoNobel Academy AkzoNobel Report 2014 | Strategic performance 59 Excellence and endurance Backed by centuries of expertise, our extensive coatings and chemicals know-how and innovative technologies are in demand all over the world. For example, we supply the aerospace and marine industries with advanced, high quality products that offer unrivalled performance and appearance. Business performance Business performance The following section gives a detailed summary of how each of our Business Areas performed during 2014. Information on market characteristics is also provided. Decorative Paints 62 Performance Coatings 74 Specialty Chemicals 86 AkzoNobel Report 2014 | Business performance 61 Decorative Paints “The work we have done to streamline our business is clearly paying off as we continued to grow in challenging circumstances” Ruud Joosten Member of the Executive Committee responsible for Decorative Paints 2015 expected outcomes ROS 7.5% ROI 12% 62 Business performance | AkzoNobel Report 2014 It was a positive year for the Decorative Paints business. to introduce sustainable innovations to the market. This was We operationally outperformed 2013 by some distance, highlighted by the proportion of revenue we achieve from despite continued market weaknesses, and remain on track eco-premium solutions with customer benefits. Notable to achieve our operational objectives for 2015. product launches included Coral Acrílico Total in Brazil, a wall paint for internal and external use, with great resistance, A lot of work has gone into streamlining our global activities coverage and washability, which reinforced the brand’s over the last few years in order to make the business more position in the premium segment. We also launched Nordsjö efficient and profitable, as well as providing further growth One Supertech in the Nordics, a self-cleaning paint which momentum. This is clearly paying off, as we continued to has already proved to be very successful. Another highlight grow in very challenging economic circumstances. was the introduction of our award-winning Visualizer app. This is available as a free download and we’re particularly Markets remained weak, especially in Europe, where many proud of it because it represents a world’s first in augmented economies are still trying to recover from the ongoing reality technology. It enables users to see in real time what economic recession. The professional market in the UK was a room would look like if it was painted in different colors – something of an exception, while consumer confidence all before any paint has been applied to the wall. The app has over continental Europe was fairly low. We continued to been hugely successful and it underlines how we’re working perform well in China, despite evidence of the economy to embrace digital innovations alongside our slowing down. Our performance was also good in Latin product innovations. America, even though circumstances were less than favorable in countries such as Argentina and Brazil. South Color is also one of the main pillars of the Human Cities East and South Asia also contributed strongly, with India, initiative which the company launched in 2014. Designed Indonesia and Vietnam in particular posting good results. to make cities more enjoyable and inspiring, it will give extra momentum to the global “Let’s Colour” initiatives that A specific area of attention this year was Europe, where we Decorative Paints has been running for a number of years. successfully implemented a new operating model in October. In particular, “Let’s Colour” will play a key role in supporting It is designed to take advantage of our scale in back the commitment AkzoNobel made to the Clinton Global office functions such as Finance, Human Resources and Initiative in September, which established a partnership Information Management, which have been combined on a with 100 Resilient Cities – pioneered by The Rockefeller global and European level. This model enables us to operate Foundation. As part of that commitment, over the next a more focused Sales and Marketing organization within two years, we will contribute to special projects in four cities the countries themselves. The introduction of this model named on the 100 Resilient Cities list. builds on changes we introduced to our global management structure and set-up at the start of 2014. As a result of these Another notable development this year was the improvements, we now have a more agile and competitive groundbreaking at our new site in Chengdu, China. Decorative Paints business which is better positioned to The plant will be our fourth in China producing decorative achieve profitable growth. paints and is due to open in 2016, with full operations expected by 2017. There is strong demand for our products Even though it was a busy year in terms of reshaping the in the region and this will enable us to meet the increasing organization, we remained highly focused on maintaining needs of the market. our good safety performance. Our total reportable rate of injuries (TRR) improved from 1.9 to 1.6, and we continued AkzoNobel Report 2014 | Business performance 63 Decorative Paints strategy Our vision is to become the Actions Grow profitably in high growth markets leading global decorative paints Fix Europe Growth in high growth countries is a key component of our plan and we continue to build our brands in these areas as company in size and performance. Given the structural issues in the Buildings and Infrastructure a result. For example, in 2014, we successfully launched end-user segment in Europe, optimizing our cost base is a new blockbuster exterior walls proposition (Coral Acrílico We are on track to achieve fundamental. The starting point for this is our new operating Total) in Brazil. The launch was supported by a fully-fledged our expected 2015 financial model, which refocuses our country organizations on our marketing campaign, including a TV commercial with core business. Implementation of this operating model has three-time Roland Garros winner and former world number outcomes of 7.5 percent return resulted in fewer management layers, reduced production one tennis player, Gustavo Kuerten. We also introduced on sales and 12 percent return on costs, standardized processes, restructuring in Marketing our Colors of the World concept – a significant part of our and Sales, and outsourcing of transactional Finance. “flourish” brand architecture – in Tunisia, South Africa and investment, as evidenced by our Indonesia. In addition, we continue to develop and market 2014 performance, which was a In parallel with this, we also continue to make progress in appropriate value propositions for the mid-market segment. the market. For example, in the UK consumer market, 2014 A good example is the recent successful launch of the Fit significant improvement over 2013 marked the launch of a major new marketing campaign for by Marshall brand in Turkey. This brand offers an economic levels. In addition, we have also our Dulux consumer range, called “Change Your Story”. In solution for frequently painted areas. trade, the heartland of our business, we began the roll-out of successfully “gone live” with our our Sikkens 5051 color collection. We are supporting our vital market-facing efforts with an new operating model in Europe, This collection, combined with related services, emphasizes even clearer focus on productivity. For example: our dedication to color, a fundamental part of our • In South East and South Asia, we are rolling out consistent which includes a comprehensive professional value proposition. We are also continuing to value propositions and supporting campaigns across and disciplined process-based innovate, particularly in products with sustainability benefits, such as Herbol Protectro Aqua, a water-based product with the full region. We have taken this approach with the launches of Dulux Weathershield Powerflexx – which offers approach designed to improve longer gloss retention. strong protection on exterior walls against wear and tear both efficiency and effectiveness. caused by harsh weather conditions with its crack-proof elastomeric features – and Dulux EasyClean – which We also continue to make effectively resists stains on interior walls and enables progress in our five main easier cleaning – and it has proven to be effective as well as efficient action areas: • In China, we are further optimizing our logistics service providers • In Latin America, we increased our operational leverage significantly by reducing the fixed cost base and improving the product mix 64 Business performance | AkzoNobel Report 2014 Leverage investments in marketing, As we move towards a steady state, our focus is shifting • Eco-premium solutions sales and innovation towards operational excellence based on the companyWe continue to win business from products and services Branding and consumer inspiration are core capabilities wide AkzoNobel Leading Performance System (ALPS). Our that have sustainability benefits. An excellent example of in Decorative Paints. In 2014, we completed global efforts are based on engaging our people in continuous this is Nordjsö One Supertech. This product is based on implementation of our “flourish” identity, successfully uniting improvement activities that improve safety and customer a collaboration with our Specialty Chemicals Business our premium consumer brands. service, while reducing inventory and cost. These efforts Area – it uses our specialty silica to create a self-cleaning are, of course, a key part of our plan for the next level exterior wood care paint. The product is yet another With this consistent brand identity aligned to a new global of improvement in mature Europe, but they are also example of products that provide functional benefits in brand architecture, we are able to facilitate stronger fundamental to the future of our supply chains in high addition to great aesthetics consumer propositions and more powerful, rapid and growth regions. • Packaging and end-of-life efficient communication through the value chain. For We continue to look for ways to reduce packaging and example, we expanded the distribution of our annual trend Generate more value from fewer resources better utilize leftover paint through the value chain. For book ColourFutures to cover 45 countries and we now As is the case with all Business Areas, our focus in terms of instance, in France, we demonstrate our commitment to support our “flourish” identity with a consistent embedded sustainability is on generating more value from helping professional customers do more with less through digital platform. fewer resources as part of our Planet Possible agenda. We our “Opération Recyclage” in our Sikkens Solutions are engaging with our employees to do this, but are also trade network. This program enables account holders to We are continuing to roll out regional or global concepts working with customers to help them make better choices. dispose of their waste paint, cans and other equipment, where relevant, including Ambiance, Colors of the World Some examples of the kind of work we are doing include: and to obtain official certification for having done so. and Weathershield. We are also continuing to invest in • Volatile organic compound (VOC) reduction This eliminates special trips to recycling centers while our global “Let’s Colour” brand, both commercially and We continue to have success in developing lower VOC encouraging them to use Sikkens products through our community programs. In Brazil, for example, products, but one of our key activities is to educate the • Own operations we have now staged around 1,250 successful market about the benefits of lower VOC paint. Although our plants and distribution process are not “Tudo de Cor” (“Let’s Colour”) events, supporting our Human For example, lower VOC products dry more quickly, resource intensive, we continue to look for ways to Cities agenda. offering improved productivity, and we consider it an minimize resource use, which generally also results in cost important part of our role to get this message across. We savings. This, of course, covers energy use, but also other Improve supply chain performance are carrying out this education process in mature markets, natural resources such as water We have made considerable changes to our supply chain such as Spain, where our Painter-to-Painter program • Engaging our employees and helping our customers footprint as a result of the ICI acquisition and the structural is based on videos of real painters talking about the We are engaging our employees to help us improve changes in the Buildings and Infrastructure end-user benefits of waterborne technology. We are also educating sustainability. Externally, we are using Planet Possible segment. The changes that we are currently making are outside of Europe, in Argentina for example, where our labelling on websites and cans to help consumers based on ensuring a future-proof supply chain. Specifically, Mythbusters program is aimed at dispelling myths about understand the level of sustainability of their choices. we are currently investing in state-of-the-art facilities in waterborne products Finally, we run a number of initiatives around the world, Ashington in the UK and Chengdu in China. The Ashington such as our Painter for Life scheme in Indonesia and our plant is intended to replace our Slough and Prudhoe facilities Ilm-o-Hunar scheme in Pakistan. As part of this training, and offers state-of-the-art technology and resource efficiency we educate painters in safety and environmental practices (energy and waste) performance. The Chengdu plant is needed from a capacity and logistics perspective, as it will supply Western China. AkzoNobel Report 2014 | Business performance 65 Decorative Paints end-user segment outlook All revenue generated by the New build projects Maintenance, renovation and repair decorative paints industry comes In Europe, the new build market grew rapidly before 2008, after which it slowed down considerably. There are some This sub-segment is more important for our Decorative Paints Business Area than New build projects. We estimate from consumers and professional signs that the market is returning to growth, with some that around 75 percent of our revenue comes from this analysts predicting robust growth rates going forward, sub-segment, with growth tending to be lower, but steadier users in either the New build due mainly to market recovery. At this rate of growth, the and less cyclical. As is the case in New build projects, projects or Maintenance, expectation is that Europe will return to 2008 output a demand growth will be disproportionate for products that decade after the recession began. However, our experience provide sustainability and other benefits. renovation and repair subis that growth is more uncertain and uneven than the rates segments of the Buildings and predicted by analysts. Therefore, our internal estimates of In Europe, analysts are predicting a significant increase in European new build growth are much more conservative. growth rates going forward, similar to levels predicted in Infrastructure end-user segment. New build projects. Our internal estimates are substantially The latter sub-segment is more In high growth markets such as China, new build growth more conservative. In key high growth countries such as has been disproportionately high over the last five years. China, Brazil and India, we continue to see a slow switch important than the former for However, growth rates have slowed. Going forward, growth from new build to maintenance. Growth rates going forward AkzoNobel, given the large size of is expected to moderate further to China GDP levels, or are expected to be very similar to new build growth rates. possibly even lower. In other key countries such as Brazil the installed base, particularly in and India, growth rates have been higher than mature more mature markets. market rates over the last five years. Going forward, these are also expected to moderate somewhat. In all geographies, growth rates are driven by population growth and increased wealth, but also by a variety of other factors, such as the need for personalization and enhanced sustainability. Thus, products that provide functional benefits, such as helping to cool buildings or increase perceived light and space, will continue to be in higher demand. 66 Business performance | AkzoNobel Report 2014 The market According to figures recently published by Orr & Boss, in a report commissioned by the International Paints and Printing Inks Council (IPPIC), the global market for decorative paints is just under 45 percent of the roughly €100 billion global paints and coatings market. The decorative paints share of the market tends to be significantly higher in mature geographies than it is in high growth geographies. Over time, the decorative paints share of the global paints and coatings market has decreased somewhat due to the increased importance of high growth countries combined with European market issues. AkzoNobel market positions Decorative Paints Europe 1st Europe Decorative Paints Latin America 1st South America Decorative Paints Asia 2nd South East and South Asia 2nd China and North Asia AkzoNobel Report 2014 | Business performance 67 Decorative Paints value creation summary 2014 Economic value: Organization €3.9 billion €143 million Revenue development in % versus 2013 As a leading global supplier of Increase Decrease decorative paints, our brands are crucial revenue capital expenditures to our success. Our Decorative Paints €248 million activities are fully focused on the Buildings In 2014, we invested in high growth markets 2 1% -1% -3% -3% -6% and Infrastructure end-user segment, and in creating efficiency in Europe through 0 serving the do-it-yourself market and operating income optimization of our production footprint professional painters. In order to create more -2 €2.8 billion economic, social and environmental value, -4 our innovation is geared towards reducing -6 our upstream and downstream supply invested capital Volume Price/mix Acquisitions/ Exchange Total chain impact by changing formulations to divestments rates waterborne technology. Many of our brands are household names and we work closely with local communities via a series of national and international initiatives, some of which involve volunteer support from our employees. This benefits Environmental value: Input Organization the creation of more social value. 2.5 million tons 1,800 TJ We continue to improve efficiency by All these initiatives will contribute to our reducing our energy use per ton of financial performance and ultimately lead to upstream CO2(e) emissions energy use production, and are working towards more economic value for our investors. improving our share of renewable energy. We continue to improve the environmental footprint of our operations by focusing on operational eco-efficiency Social value: Organization 1.6 Total reportable rate of injuries Employee safety is a key priority and we are per million hours actively driving towards a reduction in the total reportable rate of injuries number of incidents 3.5 2.7 1.9 1.6 2011 2012 2013 2014 68 Business performance | AkzoNobel Report 2014 Outcomes Revenue breakdown by business unit in % Revenue breakdown by end-user segment in % 6.3% ROS C 8.8% ROI B A A Eco-premium solutions with customer benefits 27% of revenue from eco-premium solutions % of revenue RD&I investments have resulted in A Decorative Paints Europe, Middle East and Africa 58 A Buildings and Infrastructure 100 27 27 22 27 percent of revenue derived from ecoB Decorative Paints Latin America 15 B Transportation 0 premium solutions with customer benefits C Decorative Paints Asia 27 C Consumer Goods 0 D Industrial 0 2012 2013 2014 Outcomes 0.1 million tons CO2(e) emissions own operations 1.3 million tons downstream CO2(e) emissions 3.9 million tons CO2(e) emissions cradle-to-grave 0% decrease CO2(e) per ton of sales from 2012 cradle-to-grave carbon footprint 35 kilotons total waste Outcomes €704 million 4.02 15,200 5,000 employee benefits employee engagement score employees at year-end 2014 people trained as painters 7 million We highly value, and actively work on We participate in community programs improving, employee engagement. and local sponsorships We’re investing in training and development lives positively impacted by our and continue to work on a more “Let’s Colour” program diverse workforce AkzoNobel Report 2014 | Business performance 69 Key business unit developments Decorative Paints Europe • A mixed year, with Southern Europe experiencing some volume recovery, while volumes were lower in the North and West region (except for the Benelux region) • Continued to be negatively impacted by the housing market slow down and euro crisis • We changed our operating model in EMEA in order to drive leading performance and make us more agile, competitive and better positioned to achieve profitable growth • The UK and Ireland invested in a complete rebrand of Dulux Trade and launched Armstead Trade – its first new brand in 20 years. In consumer, we invested in a new integrated Dulux marketing campaign: “Change Your Story” • Consistent investment in our stores in France resulted in a market share increase for Sikkens and Trimetal in a very difficult market • We started the roll out of the Sikkens 5051 color collection. Together with its service packages, it emphasizes the brand’s professional dedication to color • There was also a highly successful launch of the Fit by Marshall mid-tier brand in Turkey, while the performance and protection sub-brand Expert was introduced in Benelux Revenue in € millions Some of our customers 2,640 2,508 2,269 • B&Q • Bricomarche 2012 2013 2014 • Leroy Merlin • OBI Key brands Top raw materials • Binders/resins • Titanium dioxide • Packaging materials Key cost drivers • Oil price • Energy prices • Steel prices 70 Business performance | AkzoNobel Report 2014 Decorative Paints Latin America Decorative Paints Asia • Despite macro-economic headwinds in the region, our performance was solid • The region achieved solid growth this year. This was due in particular to good • A new blockbuster proposition for exterior walls was successfully launched in Brazil. performances in China, Indonesia, India and Vietnam, as well as newly opening markets The new product, Coral Acrílico Total, reinforced Coral’s position in the premium segment such as Bangladesh and Myanmar • In Argentina, the Alba brand defied the crisis and achieved a record market performance • Dulux Weathershield Powerflexx was launched across South East Asia and financial results • Dulux Superclean won Product of the Year in India. It features stain-beading technology • We have staged 1,250 “Tudo de Cor” events (“Let’s Colour”) in Brazil to date, including which offers the key performance benefit of stain repellency a major event at the Santa Marta favela in Rio de Janeiro, which positively impacted • Our Dulux websites were relaunched across the region – bringing a richer, inspirational thousands of people. “Tudo de Cor” is now also gaining traction in Argentina experience to consumers – while the Dulux Easy Paint Service continued to grow in the redecoration market in China • A new plant is being built in Chengdu, China. Due to open in 2016, full operation is expected by 2017 Revenue in € millions Revenue in € millions 1,048 1.075 1,074 603 591 568 2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 Key brands Key brands AkzoNobel Report 2014 | Business performance 71 Picture it before you paint it When it comes to During 2014, our Decorative Paints business launched its free Visualizer app, decorating your home, which features the latest advances in augmented reality technology and enables users to see in real time what a room will look like in countless colors – before it’s innovations in color actually painted. aren’t restricted to the Already downloaded more than a million times, the award-winning Visualizer app has been launched in over 40 countries and is compatible with both Android and actual paint you’re iOS devices. It allows people around the world to experiment with color and make their choices with confidence. using. They can play The core innovation behind the Visualizer is its Computer Vision technology, which a key role before a enables the user to apply realistic virtual paint to their walls, in real-time, without affecting picture frames and other furniture. Marketed through our decorative paints drop has even touched brands (Dulux in the UK, Coral in Brazil and Sikkens in Italy, for example), it will continue to be rolled out over the coming months. the wall. Expected to evolve into an essential interior design tool, the app was developed after talking to more than 5,000 customers, designers and painters. It gives people the freedom to express themselves through a more creative use of color and makes them more confident when it comes to selecting new paint schemes. As well as demonstrating AkzoNobel’s color expertise, the launch of the Visualizer also highlights the importance of focusing on customer needs and underlines our commitment to transforming lives through the power of color. The app can be downloaded via the Apple store or Google Play. Search for Visualizer and the name of your local AkzoNobel paint brand. 72 Business performance | AkzoNobel Report 2014 Scan and explore AkzoNobel Report 2014 | Business performance 73 Performance Coatings “It was a year of solid progress towards becoming more cost effective and better positioned for organic growth” Conrad Keijzer Member of the Executive Committee responsible for Performance Coatings 2015 expected outcomes ROS 12% ROI 25% 74 Business performance | AkzoNobel Report 2014 It was a year of driving performance improvement and new R&D facility at the same site. We also launched our we made good progress in implementing our strategy pioneering EvCote Water Barrier 3000 coatings technology, and reducing our cost base. Our focus on performance which makes paper cold drinks cups fully compostable improvement and differentiated organic growth is showing and recyclable. results and we are on track to deliver on our 2015 operational objectives. In Automotive and Aerospace Coatings, we began operations at our new, state-of-the-art plant in Changzhou, Overall, we experienced slightly improved market conditions China, and also introduced Sikkens Autoclear 2.0. This is a during 2014 with variations across segments and regions. more sustainable clearcoat for vehicle refinishes which brings Asia and North America showed continued growth, while greater efficiency to bodyshop processes, while doubling Europe remained soft and Latin America continued to the renewable raw material content. In addition, Honda be challenging. Motor Europe extended its partnership with AkzoNobel, strengthening the company’s position as one of the preferred During the year, we also created a new organization suppliers to Honda’s dealerships and approved bodyshops which is far more customer focused, agile and has clearer in Europe. Furthermore, we have signed an agreement with accountability. We re-engineered our four businesses and Daimler AG that makes us one of the approved suppliers 12 sub-business units into a more simplified structure, made of vehicle refinishes to Daimler dealerships and approved up of seven customer centric Strategic Market Units. This bodyshops worldwide. new organization came into effect on January 1, 2015. In Powder Coatings, an important development was the Significant progress was made in implementing the footprint start of operations at our new plant in Dubai. The facility reductions announced in 2013, resulting in the closure of will significantly increase capacity for customers of Interpon eight sites. There were also several business highlights and Resicoat products in the region. We also launched a during the course of the year, including the opening of two-coat, one-bake powder coating system, as well as a three new production sites and the launch of sustainable bright metallic powder which provides a more sustainable innovations for customers in marine, packaging, vehicle and cost-effective alternative to chrome plating. refinish and powder coatings. During 2014, we once again demonstrated our commitment In Marine and Protective Coatings, we introduced a unique to the company’s core principles of safety, integrity methodology to reward the improved fuel efficiency of ships, and sustainability. Particularly noteworthy is our safety together with The Gold Standard Foundation. We also performance, which improved significantly, with the total rate launched the shipping industry’s first digital tool enabling of reportable injuries per million hours (TRR) falling to 1.8 operators to accurately assess and predict the risk of hull from 2.8 in 2013. fouling, depending on routes being traded. Meanwhile, Protective Coatings introduced a mobile maintenance and As we move into 2015 with a new organization in place, repair service designed to reduce costs and improve safety we are well positioned to implement our strategy and deliver for our passive fire protection customers. leading performance through operational excellence and differentiated organic growth. In Industrial Coatings, we completed an investment to double the annual production capacity at our packaging coatings site in Songjiang, China, and broke ground on a AkzoNobel Report 2014 | Business performance 75 Performance Coatings strategy Our vision is to be the leading Actions Pursue differentiated growth strategies coatings company from a Drive overarching performance The outlook differs for each of our end-user segments. We also face different competitive situations. To achieve performance perspective. Our improvement initiatives our vision, we must continue to grow our business while • Continuously reduce external spend. Procured raw improving performance levels. Thus, we need to focus expected outcomes for 2015 materials make up a significant percentage of our and prioritize our growth activities and we are doing this are to achieve a return on sales Performance Coatings cost base, so appropriate by pursuing differentiated growth strategies. In roughly half management is fundamental. We have introduced a crossof our businesses, our strategy is to outgrow the market level of 12 percent and a return business, cross-functional approach to maximize and organically in attractive markets where we are best able to on investment of 25 percent. We capture opportunities created by common raw materials win. In other parts of our Performance Coatings portfolio and suppliers – where our position is often strong but the headroom for are on track to deliver on these • Continuously improve our operations. Operations growth more limited – we want to grow with the market while expectations, as evidenced by our comprise a smaller percentage of our cost base, but there driving operational excellence and controlling costs. is still room for improvement. We continue to optimize our 2014 financial results. In 2014, global manufacturing footprint to leverage our scale and Examples are: we introduced a simplified and respond to changes in geographic demand. During 2014, • In Protective Coatings, we have a leadership position we closed eight sites, but at the same time commissioned based on strong technologies, brands and reputation. leaner organizational structure. a new vehicle refinishes plant in Changzhou, China, and We will continue to invest in generating higher levels of This new structure has reduced a new powder coatings factory in Dubai. These state-ofgrowth. We will also expand our market presence in high the-art facilities will strengthen our ability to manufacture growth regions based on appropriate value propositions, the number of global management locally developed products, particularly for the fastsuch as second tier ranges, to compete in the layers, which in turn will enhance growing mid-markets. In the future, we are placing more emphasis on continuous operational improvement. In domestic marketplace • In the high growth information technology sector of our decision-making efficiency and order to deliver this, we are in the process of implementing Specialty Finishes business, we are investing to support improve our customer focus, while the standardized AkzoNobel Leading Performance System (ALPS). Safety, customer service, material efficiency and key original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) and original design manufacturers (ODMs) to grow our positions at the same time reducing costs. cost productivity are all key areas of focus for this program • In Coil Coatings, we have a strong position and a good We also continue to progress in • Drive commercial excellence. Our focus is on embedding common commercial processes to deliver both organic reputation in high performance architectural applications, and in innovations in chrome-free technologies and our three main action areas: growth and commercial efficiency. To support this, we heat-reflective coatings. We are optimizing our footprint have a dedicated center of expertise which is driving in Europe, reducing complexity in our formulations and consistency and best practice pursuing opportunities to improve resin costs 76 Business performance | AkzoNobel Report 2014 • Our Yacht Coatings business is already well positioned. • In our Vehicle Refinish business, color matching is In this sector, we are leveraging the recently launched everything. We continued to demonstrate leadership in Nautical range aimed at the mid-tier, and reducing costs this area through the 2014 launch of Color Universe – a through manufacturing consolidation new color documentation system which organizes color • Our Wood Finishes and Adhesives business serves some the way humans see it chromatically. Color Universe is an parts of the Buildings and Infrastructure and Consumer important addition to the array of tools that we provide to Goods end-user segments which have a lower growth vehicle repair professionals to get color right the first time, profile. We are focusing on the most profitable areas every time and brands and improving our supply chain to drive • In our Marine Coatings business, leadership in fouling operational efficiency control that supports our customers in reducing their fuel requirements is fundamental. We are very proud Deliver business-specific plans that in 2014, we received approval for carbon credits Continued success in Performance Coatings is for our industry-leading Intersleek foul release coatings. fundamentally based on our ability to innovate in products In addition, we launched Intersmooth 7570 SPC, a high and services. There are, of course, some areas of overlap performance coastal fouling control solution for the severe in terms of innovation requirements across our businesses, fouling challenges of vessels trading in tropical coastal such as the constant need for lower solvent or more waters. This product contains patented copolymer waterborne solutions. For the most part, though, the focus technology, providing energy savings and an extended for innovation differs by business. Therefore, the third key operating life strategic activity area is based on investing in appropriate, • Finally, in our Packaging Coatings business, we continue specific innovation requirements for each of our businesses. to commercially introduce and further innovate in terms of high performance packaging coatings that move away Examples are: from the use of bisphenol A-based epoxies, addressing a • Our Powder Coatings business offers a customer solution key consumer and customer demand that is high yield and free of volatile organic compounds (VOCs), so sustainability is a major element of the value proposition. We also pursue improved finish effects, and in 2014, we took a significant step forward with the introduction of Interpon Cr, a bright metallic powder coating for furniture, lighting and other interior fixtures which provides a more sustainable and cost-effective alternative to chrome plating AkzoNobel Report 2014 | Business performance 77 Performance Coatings end-user segment outlook Our Performance Coatings Transportation Consumer Goods Business Area serves all four Transportation is the largest end-user segment for Performance Coatings, with just over a third of our revenue. We sell powder coatings, wood finishes and adhesives and specialty finishes into the Consumer durables end-user end-user segments. Although Around two-thirds of this revenue comes from our two sub-segment, as a part of furniture, domestic appliance automotive sub-segments – Automotive OEM, parts and and consumer electronics manufacture. We expect there are relevant end-user assembly and Automotive repair. The growth outlook for the continued reasonable growth overall in the more technologysegment trends that remain former is the most certain, particularly if oil prices remain low. driven aspects of this sub-segment, such as in domestic The Automotive repair sub-segment is much more important appliances and mobile phones, but it is important to note positive, we are taking a more for AkzoNobel and is expected to continue growing at stable that trends differ significantly by type of product. So, for cautious outlook than we have rates, at or slightly below GDP growth levels. Growth rates example, in consumer electronics, double digit growth will be higher in the high growth countries than the mature is expected in tablets and above global GDP growth is in the recent past. For example, markets as the car park and rate of insurance coverage expected in smartphones and laptops. we see continued evidence of continue to grow. In less technology-oriented parts of Consumer durables, moderating growth in all four The remaining revenue comes from the Marine and air such as furniture, global growth is expected to be at lower end-user segments in China, with transport sub-segment, into which we sell both marine levels but reasonably steady, even though we have yet to and aerospace coatings. The long-term outlook for marine see a full market recovery in furniture to pre-recession levels. particular emphasis on Buildings remains strong, as wealth and international trade continue Similar growth rates are expected in the other sub-segment, and Infrastructure. The oil and gas to increase. However, in the shorter term, the marine new Consumer packaged goods, into which we sell packaging building market has yet to return to stable growth. While coatings for use in food and beverage packaging. In both segment has come under pressure analysts expect this to happen in the near future, this has cases, we expect growth slightly below regional GDP growth due to lower oil prices, which been the expectation for some time now, but we have still not seen significant concrete evidence of this. The rates in both high growth and mature geographies. has resulted in delays of new maintenance market continues to grow at a moderate The Consumer Goods end-user segment is particularly projects. Elsewhere, we have still rate, but freight rates have still not recovered significantly, dampening demand for maintenance activities. The recent affected by growth in population and wealth, but also by other factors such as consumer trends and fads. not seen an upturn of the cycle in oil price developments may have a positive effect on this Sustainability also plays a role as consumers around the marine new building, and although segment going forward, though. Aerospace is a much smaller market for AkzoNobel than marine, but we do expect world are increasingly concerned about this issue. analysts are predicting a recovery continued reasonable growth. in Buildings and Infrastructure Of course, demand in the Transportation end-user segment in Europe, evidence for this in is dependant on sustainability as well as demand. Thus, practice is relatively weak. products sold into the Transportation end-user segment that help in utilizing less energy and other resources will grow disproportionately. 78 Business performance | AkzoNobel Report 2014 Buildings and Infrastructure The market AkzoNobel market positions As indicated in the Decorative Paints section of this Report According to figures recently published by Orr & Boss, in a 2014, the Buildings and Infrastructure end-user segment is report commissioned by the International Paints and Printing Marine and Protective Coatings undergoing considerable change. Growth rates are dropping Inks Council (IPPIC), the global market for performance 1st Protective coatings considerably in China, while growth is expected to accelerate coatings is just over 55 percent of the roughly €100 billion Yacht coatings in more mature geographies, particularly Europe. Although global paints and coatings market. Growth over the past 2nd Marine coatings analysts are expecting market recovery level growth rates few years has been higher in performance coatings than in Europe, we are not yet seeing strong evidence of this in it has been in decorative paints. This is due in part to Automotive and Aerospace Coatings the market and, therefore, our internal predictions are much disproportionate growth in high growth geographies, where 1st Specialty finishes more conservative. the share of performance coatings is higher, and also to 2nd Aerospace coatings continued issues in terms of Buildings and Infrastructure 3rd Vehicle refinish Industrial growth, particularly in Europe. The Industrial end-user segment is the smallest for Industrial Coatings Performance Coatings. We sell protective and powder 1st Coil coatings coatings for industrial uses, primarily in the Natural resource Wood finishes and adhesives and energy industries sub-segment. With the recent oil price 2nd Packaging coatings develoment, there are question marks around the growth outlook for the oil and gas end-user markets. However, in the Powder Coatings short term, our business should not be significantly impacted 1st Powder coatings as most of the projects that we sell into are long-term, multiyear projects that are likely to continue, even if oil prices remain lower than they have been. AkzoNobel Report 2014 | Business performance 79 Performance Coatings value creation summary 2014 Economic value: Organization €5.6 billion €143 million Revenue development in % versus 2013 Our Performance Coatings businesses Increase Decrease are focused on all four of our end-user revenue capital expenditures segments. Supplying high performance €545 million products and cutting-edge technologies During 2014, we completed the construction 4 1% 1% 0% -2% 0% primarily to business-to-business customers, of two new production facilities which will 2 we are increasingly incorporating low energy operating income increase our production capacity for vehicle 0 processes and working to reduce our carbon refinishes in China and powder coatings in €2.5 billion footprint across the value chain. Innovation is the Middle East -2 also key to our product development, which -4 is often highly technical in order to meet invested capital Volume Price/mix Acquisitions/ Exchange Total strict customer specifications. divestments rates Particular emphasis is placed on supplying products that offer environmental and social benefits for our customers. These initiatives will help us to create economic, social and environmental value. Social value is also increased by our continued focus on safety, Environmental value: Input Organization as well as our talent development programs 4.6 million tons 4,600 TJ and our contribution to various We continue to improve efficiency by community activities. reducing our energy use per ton of upstream CO2(e) emissions energy use production, and are working towards All these initiatives will contribute to our improving our share of renewable energy. financial performance and ultimately lead to We continue to improve the environmental more economic value for our investors. footprint of our operations by focusing on operational eco-efficiency Social value: Organization 1.8 Total reportable rate of injuries Employee safety is a key priority and we are per million hours actively driving towards a reduction in the total reportable rate of injuries number of incidents 2.8 2.8 2.6 1.8 2011 2012 2013 2014 80 Business performance | AkzoNobel Report 2014 Outcomes Revenue breakdown by business unit in % Revenue breakdown by end-user segment in % 9.8% ROS 22.0% ROI D D A A 15% C C B B Eco-premium solutions with customer benefits of revenue from eco-premium solutions % of revenue RD&I investments have resulted in A Marine and Protective Coatings 27 A Buildings and Infrastructure 21 15 13 13 15 percent of revenue derived from ecoB Automotive and Aerospace Coatings 24 B Transportation 37 premium solutions with customer benefits C Industrial Coatings 31 C Consumer Goods 28 D Powder Coatings 18 D Industrial 14 2012 2013 2014 Outcomes 0.3 million tons CO2(e) emissions own operations 8.7 million tons downstream CO2(e) emissions 13.6 million tons CO2(e) emissions cradle-to-grave 2% increase CO2(e) per ton of sales from 2012 cradle-to-grave carbon footprint 55 kilotons total waste Outcomes €1.2 billion 3.89 20,500 We participate in community programs employee benefits employee engagement score employees at year-end 2014 and local sponsorships We highly value, and actively work on improving, employee engagement. We’re investing in training and development and continue to work on a more diverse workforce AkzoNobel Report 2014 | Business performance 81 Key business unit developments Marine and Protective Coatings Automotive and Aerospace Coatings • Revenue was up 2 percent due to higher volumes in all businesses • Revenue was flat compared to 2013, as declines in volume and adverse currencies were • Protective Coatings’ strong project portfolio and outstanding technical support led to offset by price/mix continued growth in the area of oil and gas and heavy duty coatings • Volumes in the vehicle refinishes market contracted in Europe, Latin America and • Marine Coatings increased its business in the deep sea maintenance and repair market, South East Asia, while North America and China continued to grow offsetting the global decline in new build • A state-of-the-art production facility for vehicle refinishes was opened in Changzhou, • We achieved significant sales for our next generation fouling control products and also China, for our Sikkens, Lesonal and Prime products received approval of carbon credits related to use of our Intersleek foul release coatings, • Sikkens Autoclear 2.0 was launched in the vehicle refinish segment, featuring patented providing a cash income for customers binder technology which doubles the percentage of renewable raw materials it uses • Our premier yacht coatings brand AWLGRIP launched a new clear coat system, Awlwood, • Strong customer demand was experienced in aerospace markets, driven by continued for exterior wood above the waterline innovation and technology leadership • Our Nautical yacht coatings brand for do-it-yourself boat painters launched a new product • Our Aerospace coatings business received Boeing qualification for its Aerodur 3001/3002 range, including antifoulings, finishes and primers Base Coat/Clear Coat system. We also received AMS 3095A qualification for 100 percent • Two plants were consolidated into other facilities chrome-free paint systems for commercial fleet maintenance Key brands Revenue in € millions Key brands Revenue in € millions 1,299 1,321 1,320 1,577 1,495 1,528 2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 Some of our customers Geo-mix revenue by destination in % Some of our customers Geo-mix revenue by destination in % • Brunswick • Hyundai Heavy • Airbus • General Motors • Carnival Cruise Industries • Amazon • HP • ExxonMobil • Qatar Gas • Boeing • Hyundai • Hapag Lloyd • Shell A • Dell • Samsung C • West Marine • Etihad Airways • Toyota A C • Geely • Volkswagen Top raw materials Top raw materials • Epoxy resins and • Copper/zinc • Pigments • Acrylic dispersions organic solvents • Curing agents B • Acrylic resins B Key cost drivers Key cost drivers A EMEA 31 A EMEA 41 • Oil feedstock chain • Metals, base chemicals prices • Metals, base chemicals prices B Americas 23 • Oil, energy prices B Americas 29 C Asia Pacific 46 C Asia Pacific 30 82 Business performance | AkzoNobel Report 2014 Industrial Coatings Powder Coatings • Revenue declined 3 percent, due to adverse currencies • Revenue increased 4 percent compared with 2013, with volume and price/mix increases • Operating costs declined across all businesses due to restructuring and offsetting adverse currencies cost control measures • Volume growth occurred in Europe, North America and Asia, resulting in a strong year for • We continued to achieve growth in our high growth markets, with Coil Coatings and the business Packaging Coatings benefiting in Asia in particular • We improved our leading positions across a wide range of segments, with a particular • Capacity for Packaging Coatings was added in India, as well as a new resin reactor in focus on automotive, resulting in improved volumes and revenues Songjiang, China, where we also established a new Industrial Coatings RD&I center • A new powder coatings manufacturing facility was inaugurated in Dubai to capture • We were the first to introduce an ultra-low formaldehyde emitting adhesive for the parquet growing demand in the Middle East flooring market in Europe • Production in South East Asia was consolidated at the Powder Coatings site in Vietnam • We have commercial success and are well positioned for the continued BPA-free • We launched a bright metallic powder coating, Interpon Cr, for furniture, lighting and other conversion occurring in France interior fixtures, which provides a more sustainable and cost-effective alternative to chrome • Streamlining of our Coil Coatings manufacturing footprint in Europe is nearly completed plating • In Wood Coatings, we are moving capacity to sites in High Point, Roanoke and Port Hope • We launched an innovative two-coat, one-bake powder coating system (Interpon Align) • We moved our Coil and Wood Coatings capacity in Brazil to a multi-site in Santo Andre which offers customers significant productivity and energy efficiency improvements • We also opened a new European Powder Technical Center in Como, Italy Key brands Revenue in € millions Key brands Revenue in € millions 1,856 1,799 1,751 997 982 1,019 2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 Some of our customers Geo-mix revenue by destination in % Some of our customers Geo-mix revenue by destination in % • Arcelor Mittal • IKEA • Bosch • TATA • Ball • Rexam • Mercedes-Benz • Whirlpool • Blue Scope Steel • TATA • Philips • Crown C C A Top raw materials Top raw materials A • Polyester and epoxy resins • Polyester and epoxy resins • Glycol, ether and aromatic solvents • Titanium dioxide • Titanium dioxide B B Key cost drivers Key cost drivers A EMEA 46 A EMEA 48 • Basic feedstock prices • Gasoline/naphtha prices • Oil/gasoline/naphtha/natural gas prices B Americas 34 B Americas 21 C Asia Pacific 20 C Asia Pacific 31 AkzoNobel Report 2014 | Business performance 83 Changing the world with pioneering technology Cutting back on waste Take the cold drinks paper cup, for example. Around 200 billion are used around and doing more with the world every year, although currently, none can be recycled without incurring prohibitive costs or greatly reducing the quality of the paper fiber. In 2014, our less resources is a Performance Coatings business introduced pioneering coatings technology which could have an industry-changing impact. major area of attention The breakthrough was achieved thanks to EvCote WaterBarrier 3000. for many companies. When applied to paperboard used for the production of cold cup stock, it makes the world’s first fully compostable and recyclable cold paper cup a reality. This need to become In addition, paper mills and cup makers can potentially recapture 100 percent of the paper waste from the production process currently sent to landfill – resulting in more sustainable has major cost savings. prompted an upsurge What makes EvCote WaterBarrier 3000 remarkable is that it contains up to 95 percent sustainable or renewable content and is made from plant-based oils in innovation, due to and recycled PET bottles. The PET is “digested” into the resulting polyester resin, which means the PET in the final product is weakened and breaks up faster when the fact that devising composted or sent for recycling. When paper coated with the product is recycled, the quality of the paper fiber remains intact – which means it can be reused in the creative solutions can production of other, high quality paper products, such as new food be the best way to rise contact packaging. to the challenge. Quite A great example of AkzoNobel’s Planet Possible approach to sustainability, the new technology also provides our Paper Coatings business with options to often, it can also be the completely disconnect from the fossil-based supply chain, because it can offer customers a replacement for petroleum-based polyethylene films. simplest ideas that have the biggest impact. 84 Business performance | AkzoNobel Report 2014 200 billion The world uses 200 billion paper cups every year 100% Recapture of paper currently sent to landfill Our pioneering coatings technology makes this a fully compostable, recyclable cold drinks cup Scan and explore AkzoNobel Report 2014 | Business performance 85 Specialty Chemicals “We are swiftly responding to changing trends in the chemical industry” Werner Fuhrmann Member of the Executive Committee responsible for Specialty Chemicals 2015 expected outcomes ROS 12% ROI 15% 86 Business performance | AkzoNobel Report 2014 It was a year of recovery for Specialty Chemicals, driven by and performance additives endured a more challenging year. our strategic focus on five main chemical platforms. As well There were several important developments at Pulp and as nearing our 2015 return on investment expectation of Performance Chemicals, notably the announcement of the 15 percent, we also made significant progress with regard to divestment of Paper Chemicals. We also brought another our return on sales expectation of 12 percent in 2015. Chemical Island, Imperatriz, on stream in Brazil. As well as further improving our geo-spread for bleaching chemicals, this There was a certain amount of optimism within the industry also enabled us to continue growing our colloidal silica and as the year began, with some recovery compared to a much Expancel activities in high added value segments. In Surface weaker 2013. But currency headwinds continued to impact Chemistry, we made good progress in expanding our position the first half of the year, while the overall macro-economic in the agricultural segment and posted a strong performance climate worsened in the second quarter. Despite these in Europe and the Americas. At Industrial Chemicals, price challenging conditions, our own financial results improved pressure on caustic was visible throughout the year and our during the year, mainly due to productivity improvement chlor-alkali business remained somewhat flat, while salt was a measures and lower restructuring costs. strong contributor. In the fourth quarter, Industrial Chemicals was impacted by production and supply chain interruptions, This commitment to continuous improvement was constant which in turn curtailed olefin supply to our customers and during the year, together with a focus on operational limited their chlorine demand. excellence and organic growth. We also continued to prune our portfolio. This included the intended sale of our global Other key highlights included the commissioning of our Paper Chemicals business to Kemira (expected to close in Frankfurt chlor-alkali plant in Germany – which was converted 2015), and the €5 million divestment of our 50 percent share from mercury to state-of-the-art membrane technology – and in the non-consolidated joint venture Eka Synthomer Oy, the start of a study with Evonik to jointly convert Industrial to Synthomer. Chemicals’ last mercury-based plant, located in Ibbenbüren. This is expected to help us improve our carbon footprint Although we continued to strengthen our manufacturing performance in the coming years, which increased in 2014. footprint in high growth economies, particularly in Brazil In addition, we advanced our investment program in China to and China, our capital expenditure came down compared build our global market position in surfactants, while a new to previous years. When combined with operating working organic peroxide plant is being built in Ningbo. The year was capital of around 12 percent of sales, this led to a solid cash also notable for the signing of several partnerships aimed flow and added further resilience to the business. at helping us to identify viable alternatives for increasingly scarce raw materials. This will help drive the development of A key area of attention was the restructuring of our Functional more eco-premium solutions with customer benefits, which Chemicals activities. This is in line with our strategy to increased to 17 percent during 2014. focus on five main chemical platforms. We have therefore established an Ethylene and Sulfur Derivatives business, Safety remained high on the agenda, although with a TRR based in China, and a Polymer Chemistry business, which of 2.4, Specialty Chemicals fell short of the 2015 company is based in the US. Relocating the headquarters of both target of 2.0. Measures are therefore ongoing to bring the businesses is designed to bring us closer to the market improvements we want to achieve. We did make significant dynamics currently taking place. With regard to Functional progress in the area of process safety and are about to put Chemicals in 2014, chelates and micronutrients and sulfur a standardized system in place at company level, which is derivatives were strong contributors, while ethylene amines particularly relevant for Specialty Chemicals. AkzoNobel Report 2014 | Business performance 87 Specialty Chemicals strategy Our vision is to deliver leading Actions Improve performance through enhanced performance based on our five Build on our strong chemical platforms operational excellence In our other three platforms, our focus is on growing with the main chemical platforms by driving Given the asset intensity of our business, we have to market and operational excellence. carefully prioritize our capital allocation against the most • Polymer chemistry. Given our strong share in this market, profitable growth in selected promising growth opportunities. We have identified two we will continue to grow in line with demand growth. markets. Our expected outcomes strategic approaches – outgrow the market organically and Our strategy is to maintain our position in core applications improve performance through enhanced and invest in organic growth in specific niches, for for 2015 are to achieve a return operational excellence. example application innovation, and in high purity metal on sales level of 12 percent and a organics (HPMO) for light-emitting diode (LED) lighting Outgrow the market organically and solar panels return on investment of In our surfactants and bleaching chemicals platforms, the • Salt-chlorine chain. We have a strong and attractive 15 percent. We came close end-user segment outlook is robust, the market is attractive position in North West Europe in salt and chlor-alkali and our competitive position is strong. We are investing to products, and we have just completed the conversion to meeting our 2015 return on outgrow the market. to membrane electrolysis at our Frankfurt site. investment expectations in 2014 • Surfactants are used in many different applications and Our focus going forward will primarily be on efficient some of these have above GDP growth due to high capital expenditure, successful plant utilization and and are on track to meet both end-user segment growth. Given our strength in more operational excellence expected outcomes. We are also specialized surfactants – and the sustainability of these • Ethylene oxide network. We successfully completed chemicals due to the use of renewable raw materials – a significant investment in new production facilities in making progress on our five main we are investing in growth in this platform by developing Ningbo, China, and now need to fully utilize our existing action areas: and/or marketing segment-specific solutions, supported by appropriate key account management and other capacity to further improve our performance levels. We will invest in growth only in specific applications, such as commercial excellence programs. Because our surfactants chelate and cellulosic products are centered on a few key technology platforms, we can effectively and efficiently leverage our production capacity for use across all segments as we focus for growth • Our bleaching chemicals platform is expected to benefit from continued growth in chemically bleached pulp in South America, where we have a strong competitive position. Our recent investments have been in plants located on-site with our customers, including the Imperatriz Chemical Island facility in Brazil, which was commissioned in 2014. Both the cost and sustainability positions of these Chemical Islands are very favorable, with volume in our South American business growing substantially 88 Business performance | AkzoNobel Report 2014 Drive functional excellence Reduce organizational complexity and cost Capitalize on industry changes In order to achieve our return on sales expectations, we In early 2015, we adjusted our organization in line with our We continue to adjust our strategy, organization structure need to improve our levels of commercial and supply chain five chemical platforms. A particular area of change is in the and manufacturing footprint to respond to and address performance. We are, therefore, in the process of building a integrated supply chain, where we are now consolidating end-user segment and market trends. These trends include: stronger organization in the key areas of integrated supply our activities at business unit level to drive productivity via • The growth of the Chinese market in chemicals, which we chain and commercial excellence, as well as leveraging the continuous improvement processes. In addition, Commercial are continuing to respond to through the construction of AkzoNobel Talent management process. Excellence and Innovation functions were introduced at local production capacity and growth in our local • Integrated supply chain. Building on the productivity business unit level to help drive organic growth. sales organizations improvement initiatives of recent years, we are now in • The growth trend in Brazilian pulp, which we are the process of implementing the AkzoNobel Leading We are also continuing to prune our product portfolio and responding to by constructing closed loop, highly Performance System (ALPS). This company-wide divest non-core businesses where we are unable to achieve sustainable, local production capacity framework of standard processes and tools will help leading performance levels, such as our Paper Chemicals • North American market growth, due in part to shale gas. us to drive targeted improvements in cost productivity, business, which is scheduled to be divested in 2015. We are taking advantage where possible by upgrading our resource consumption and customer satisfaction. At a more operational level, standardized work processes production capacity in North America, where relevant In addition, we systematically apply Lean and Six and a greater cost focus are also contributing to Sigma as the main methodology to anchor continuous performance improvement. An additional area of focus for the Business Area is on improvement throughout the organization renewable energy and bio-based raw materials. • Commercial excellence. Our major focus areas are Commercialize product innovation and Our renewable energy supply strategy has three focus enhanced customer satisfaction, organic growth, deliver process innovation areas – protecting our current renewable share, participating embedding margin management and increasing salesforce We continue to make improvements to our product portfolio in cost-effective, large energy ventures and exploring productivity. With regard to customer satisfaction, we now to deliver better solutions for our customers, particularly commercially feasible on-site renewable energy generation. have a common customer feedback process in place in more growth-oriented businesses. For example, in our We are actively positioning ourselves for competitive, which is yielding tangible results. A mixture of increased surfactants platform, we introduced three new products for biomass-based steam production, particularly in the rigor and focus on opportunity funnel management and agrochemicals in 2014. These products help to increase Netherlands, enabling us to further diversify the current key account approaches is supporting the businesses crop yields and reduce pesticide and herbicide usage per gas-based parts of our portfolio. We have also been very with their organic growth plans unit of production. We also launched a product which active with regard to bio-based feedstocks. For example, • Talent management. In 2014, we redesigned our improves productivity of low-permeable hydrocarbon during 2014, we signed agreements to produce algaeorganizational structure to create a flatter organization, reservoirs. It reduces eco-toxicity levels and enhances based materials and explore waste and sugar beet as a which allows us to work more efficiently and reduce costs fracking control at elevated well temperatures. chemicals feedstock. while we improve the levels of professionalism in our functions. Beyond reorganization, we make sure that our In addition to product-based innovation, process-based employee base has the right spread by increasing our innovation is also essential in Specialty Chemicals. presence in higher growth regions, improving diversity and A particular area of focus is in creating more value from building a pool of global leaders fewer resources as part of our Planet Possible sustainability agenda. For instance, in one of our chlorine plants in Germany, through sophisticated mathematical modelling and subsequent smart engineering, we were able to significantly reduce steam requirement and waste by improving yield, thereby reducing costs and carbon emissions. AkzoNobel Report 2014 | Business performance 89 Specialty Chemicals end-user segment outlook Specialty Chemicals serves all Industrial Buildings and Infrastructure four of our end-user segments, Accounting for nearly 60 percent of Specialty Chemicals revenues, the Industrial end-user segment is by far the Our main involvement in the Buildings and Infrastructure end-user segment is through the salt-chlorine and polymer with the products we supply largest for the Business Area. It is served by all five of our chemistry platforms. We produce salt, chlor-alkali products, chemical platforms. In the Natural resource and energy organic peroxides, metal alkyls and various other products being used in millions of everyday industries sub-segment, we derive significant revenue that are used in the manufacture of plastics that are, in products. Growth is moderate from the sale of surfactants and ethylene-derived products turn, used to make doors, windows and other construction into the oil and gas, metals and mining, and agricultural components. We also make products that are used more in many parts of these end-user industries. In the Process industries sub-segment, we derive directly in the Buildings and Infrastructure industry, such as segments and there is uncertainty significant revenue from the sale of bleaching chemicals cellulosic products used in paints and redispersible polymer into the pulp industry, in addition to sales of salt, chlor-alkali powders used in concrete admixtures. In addition, we are about the outlook for the oil price. products, organic peroxides, metal alkyls and ethylenea leading supplier of high purity metal organic (HPMO) based products into the plastics (polymer) industry, as well precursors – an essential ingredient for light-emitting diode as other chemical industries. (LED) chips used for smart and efficient lighting, as described later in this section. Products such as these that have The growth outlook for both end-user sub-segments is sustainability benefits are expected to varied. It is roughly equivalent to GDP growth in most grow disproportionately. markets and geographies. • Growth in Asia is expected to be more moderate going Growth has been limited in Europe since the recession. forward than it has been Analysts are forecasting a strong recovery over the next • Growth in North America is still expected to be above few years. If this recovery occurs, it will clearly be important GDP growth in chemicals and other industries affected by for our business given the percentage of our revenue by growth in shale gas that comes from Europe. However, we have seen limited • In South America, growth is particularly high in evidence of a significant increase in demand and, therefore, chemically bleached pulp our internal growth forecasts are more conservative. The other platforms are driven by the global outlook for From an industry perspective, unlike most recent years, more moderate growth than we have seen in the recent the outlook for oil and gas is uncertain. Most analysts past, particularly in China. predict an oil price rebound, although it is unclear whether and when this will occur. If the oil price remains low, there is also uncertainty about what the impact will be on key industries for AkzoNobel. Within metals and mining, the overall view currently appears to be one of apprehension, with improvement anticipated within five years. In agriculture, demand for agricultural products is expected to remain firm, although expanding at slower rates compared with the past decade. 90 Business performance | AkzoNobel Report 2014 Consumer Goods The market We sell a wide variety of surfactants and ethylene-based The global chemicals industry is very large (more than products into the Consumer packaged goods sub-segment, €2.5 trillion globally) and diverse. China has become the for applications such as cleaning, cleansing, conditioning global leader in terms of chemical production. Market and dishwashing. The expected growth in demand development is also disproportionately strong in the Middle continues to be at or slightly above GDP growth levels in East (due to access to low cost raw materials) and in the US mature geographies. The personal care market outlook is (due to shale gas). Europe continues to post record trade also reasonable, driven by global increased demand and surpluses in chemicals in all major regions and we expect penetration in high growth countries. this to continue, particularly in the chemical sectors relevant to AkzoNobel. Growth rates in Europe are expected to be We also sell consumer/domestic salt into the Consumer substantially lower than in other regions, though, due to a packaged goods sub-segment. For salt products, these combination of limited local demand growth (as described sales are in Europe, where demand growth is low and in the end-user segment analysis above) and a higher local healthy eating emphasis is high. The outlook for this part of raw material and energy cost base. the market is less positive, although reduced sodium intake does offer growth opportunities for our low sodium salt products. AkzoNobel market positions Transportation Functional Chemicals Transportation is the smallest end-user segment for 1st Chelates and micronutrients Specialty Chemicals. We sell a wide variety of products Organic peroxides that are generally used in the manufacture of automotive plastics (polymers), mostly via our salt-chlorine and polymer Industrial Chemicals chemistry platforms. 1st Chlorine merchant (Europe) Monochloroacetic acid (MCA) Over the last few years, these businesses have already benefited from market recovery after the recession and are Pulp and Performance Chemicals now growing fairly steadily at roughly GDP growth rates. 1st Bleaching chemicals The trend towards lighter weight and less expensive cars Colloidal silica dispersions disproportionately benefits our business, as this supports the use of automotive plastics. Surface Chemistry 1st Industrial applications Agricultural applications AkzoNobel Report 2014 | Business performance 91 Specialty Chemicals value creation summary 2014 Economic value: Organization €4.9 billion €297 million Revenue development in % versus 2013 We are a major producer of specialty Increase Decrease chemicals, supplying key products to revenue capital expenditures business-to-business customers in all four of €508 million our end-user segments. We utilize inherently During 2014, we have been focusing on the 4 high energy processes and focus strongly on Frankfurt, Germany, project to convert to 2 1% 1% -1% -2% -1% reducing carbon footprint and energy use, operating income membrane electrolysis technology. Several while saving costs in our own operations. asset integrity improvement projects and 0 €3.4 billion growth projects for specific segments were -2 Developing close relationships with our also high on the agenda -4 customers – and helping them to create invested capital Volume Price/mix Acquisitions/ Exchange Total value – is key to our ongoing success, along divestments rates with efficient processes, an increased focus on eco-premium solutions and renewable energy and a high level of innovation. These initiatives will create economic, social and environmental value. Social value is increased by our continued focus on safety, as well as our talent development programs Environmental value: Input Organization and our contribution to various 3.6 million tons 92,000 TJ community activities. We continue to improve efficiency by reducing our energy use per ton of All these initiatives will contribute to our upstream CO2(e) emissions energy use production, and are working towards financial performance and ultimately lead to improving our share of renewable energy. more economic value for our investors. We continue to improve the environmental footprint of our operations by focusing on operational eco-efficiency Social value: Organization 2.4 Total reportable rate of injuries Employee safety is a key priority and we are per million hours actively driving towards a reduction in the total reportable rate of injuries number of incidents 2.8 2.2 2.4 1.8 2011 2012 2013 2014 92 Business performance | AkzoNobel Report 2014 Outcomes Revenue breakdown by business unit in % Revenue breakdown by end-user segment in % 10.4% ROS 14.8% ROI A D A B 17% D C Eco-premium solutions with C customer benefits B % of revenue of revenue from eco-premium solutions RD&I investments have resulted in A Functional Chemicals 38 A Buildings and Infrastructure 18 16 16 17 17 percent of revenue derived from ecoB Industrial Chemicals 22 B Transportation 6 premium solutions with customer benefits C Pulp and Performance Chemicals 20 C Consumer Goods 19 D Surface Chemistry 20 D Industrial 57 2012 2013 2014 Outcomes 3.6 million tons CO2(e) emissions own operations 2.2 million tons downstream CO2(e) emissions 9.4 million tons CO2(e) emissions cradle-to-grave 2% increase CO2(e) per ton of sales from 2012 cradle-to-grave carbon footprint 59 kilotons total waste Outcomes €758 million 4.06 9,800 We participate in community programs employee benefits employee engagement score employees at year-end 2014 and local sponsorships We highly value, and actively work on improving, employee engagement. We’re investing in training and development and continue to work on a more diverse workforce AkzoNobel Report 2014 | Business performance 93 Key business unit developments Functional Chemicals Industrial Chemicals • Revenue growth was driven by strong market positions and use of existing assets, despite • Revenue was 5 percent below 2013 due to lower prices and volumes, reflecting the tough challenging market circumstances, mainly in Europe. Trading conditions in Asia and the economic conditions in our main markets in Europe Americas were more positive • Chlor-alkali was heavily impacted by a drop in caustic lye prices • Significant financial improvements were delivered through dedicated efforts to improve • We started a joint investigation with Evonik into converting our Ibbenbüren site in Germany both fixed and variable cost positions. Increased production levels at our Ningbo multi-site to membrane technology in China supported production for the Ethylene Amines, Organic Peroxides, • Salt continued its solid performance, benefiting from clear technology and market Performance Additives and Chelates and Micronutrients businesses leadership positions • We modernized and are expanding our Organic Peroxides facility in Mons, Belgium • MCA delivered to expectations, making use of the expanded Taixing plant in China. To • We successfully commercialized our StimWell product range for oilfield and gas industries further strengthen our leading position globally and in China, a pre-project was launched to • In Mexico, investment in our Los Reyes site is helping PVC producers to improve safety establish a second MCA plant in north east China, with a capacity of 50 kilotons and product quality through patented continuous initiator dosing (CiD) technology • Ecosel AsphaltProtection – an additive for de-icing salt which reduces development of frost • In line with the strategic focus on five main chemical platforms, we restructured damage to roads and makes driving safer – was launched commercially Functional Chemicals into an Ethylene and Sulfur Derivatives business (China), and a • Major effort was also put into reducing the use of natural resources and improving the Polymer Chemistry business (US), effective January 1, 2015 carbon footprint Key brands Revenue in € millions Key brands Revenue in € millions Ferrazone® 1,188 1,173 1,114 This Iron Works. 1,963 1,872 1,885 2012 2013 2014 Chemical platform 2012 2013 2014 Chemical platform Polymer chemistry and Ethylene oxide network Salt-chlorine chain Geo-mix revenue by destination in % Geo-mix revenue by destination in % Some of our customers Some of our customers • Air Products (EA) • Henkel (SD, PA, EA, • Bayer C • Fenzi (SD) chelates) • Huntsman B • FMC Corporation • Proctor and Gamble C • Shin-Etsu (performance additives) (P&G) (salt) A • Formosa (OP/OMS) • Sabic (OP) • Yara (chelates) Top raw materials Top raw materials • Fuels (for cogeneration) • Ethylene • Polymer emulsions B • Power A • Acid chlorides, • Ammonia, HCN • Acetic acid Chloroformates • Sulfur A EMEA 43 A EMEA 89 Key cost drivers Key cost drivers B Americas 29 B Americas 5 • Ethylene • Sulfur • Oil, gas and coal prices • Energy • Salt C Asia Pacific 28 • Methanol prices C Asia Pacific 6 94 Business performance | AkzoNobel Report 2014 Pulp and Performance Chemicals Surface Chemistry • Due to divestments, overall volumes were lower than in 2013. However, on a comparable • We saw positive growth momentum in key market segments such as agrochemicals, basis, core product lines reported growing or stable volume development lubricants, fuels and organoclays and had a stronger second half in the business overall • Volumes in the South American bleaching chemicals business grew substantially following • We redesigned our organizational structure to deliver a “market-in” culture, mainly in the inauguration of the Imperatriz Chemical Island in northern Brazil. Europe and Asia Marketing and Sales, RD&I and Supply Chain functions. This resulted in improvements in reported solid regional performance, while North American volumes were on a par with the service levels to customers and increased capacity at key sites previous year • A number of new adjuvants for crop protection were introduced • Expancel, our expandable microspheres business, put in a solid performance, • We launched Armovis Complete, a viscoelastic surfactant (VES) for oil and gas well with significant revenue growth completion fluid • The Colloidal Silica business continued to grow in key segments • We introduced new polymer additives for hair styling product formulations such as Balance • We expect to close the divestment of Paper Chemicals to Kemira in 2015 RCF and Biostyle XH • Our 50 percent stake in the Eka Synthomer Oy joint venture was sold to joint venture • A global partnership with Nukamel was formed to supply nutritional emulsifiers that partner Synthomer improve fat digestibility and feed efficiency for young animals Key brands Revenue in € millions Key brands Revenue in € millions 1,153 1,085 1,012 1,036 1,009 1,010 Chemical platform 2012 2013 2014 Chemical platform 2012 2013 2014 Bleaching chemicals Surfactants Geo-mix revenue by destination in % Geo-mix revenue by destination in % Some of our customers Some of our customers • APP • International Paper • Baker Hughes • Potash Corporation • BillerudKorsnäs • SCA C • BYK Additives of Saskatchewan C • Domtar • Smurfit Kappa • Lubrizol • Procter & Gamble A • Fibria • Stora Enso A • Monsanto • Georgia Pacific • Suzano Top raw materials Top raw materials B B • Energy • Wax • Animal fats • Starch • Salt • Rosin • Vegetable oils (corn, potato, tapioca) • Sodium silicate A EMEA 39 A EMEA 32 Key cost drivers Key cost drivers • Energy prices B Americas 45 B Americas 54 • Biofuels, food prices • Propylene prices • Logistic costs C Asia Pacific 16 • Ethylene prices • Oil and gas prices C Asia Pacific 14 AkzoNobel Report 2014 | Business performance 95 Inspiring innovation through partnerships Given the growing An effective way of accelerating the development of more sustainable technologies concerns over raw is to form partnerships designed to explore these alternative routes to resource efficiency. This exchange of knowledge and sharing of expertise not only material and energy establishes important relationships, but can often produce highly beneficial results. scarcity – which are During 2014, AkzoNobel entered into several strategic partnerships, all focused on replacing non-renewable raw materials, and which could potentially have major being amplified by the environmental benefits. One of the most recent initiatives involves investigating the possibility of producing chemicals from beet-derived sugar feedstock. Working increasing impact of with several partners, the aim is to develop a viability study which will look at developing business cases for commercial production in the Delfzijl chemical urbanization – the need cluster in the Netherlands. to innovate and develop We’re also part of a major Dutch consortium exploring the use of waste streams as a feedstock for chemical production. A number of industry and semi-governmental less traditional solutions partners are looking to benefit from Canadian company Enerkem’s ongoing research into developing technology that converts waste into synthesis gas – is becoming ever a common starting material for products such as methanol and ammonia. more important. Another important development saw us expand our agreement with Solazyme Inc. to target an annual supply of up to 10,000 tons of renewable tailored algae-based oils – which would replace both petroleum and palm oil-derived chemicals. We’re also working with cleantech company Photanol to develop a process for harnessing the power of the sun to make chemicals. The aim is to produce “green” chemical building blocks that will eventually replace raw materials we currently obtain from fossil-based production, supporting our Planet Possible agenda of radical resource efficiency. 96 Business performance | AkzoNobel Report 2014 Scan and explore AkzoNobel Report 2014 | Business performance 97 Function and form Buildings around the world use our market-leading coatings and chemicals technology on a wide range of surfaces, including roofs. We supply products that protect against corrosion, fire, weathering and include functionality such as solar reflection. Leadership In this section we introduce our Board of Management and Executive Committee, as well as our Supervisory Board. We also present the Report of the Supervisory Board and provide detailed overviews of their activities during 2014. Our Board of Management and Executive Committee 100 Statement of the Board of Management 102 Our Supervisory Board 103 Supervisory Board Chairman’s statement 104 Report of the Supervisory Board 106 Leadership AkzoNobel Report 2014 | Leadership 99 Our Board of Management and Executive Committee Conrad Keijzer Maëlys Castella Marten Booisma Member of the Executive Committee responsible CFO and Member of the Board of Management Member of the Executive Committee responsible for Performance Coatings and the Executive Committee for Human Resources (1968, Dutch) (1966, French) (1966, Dutch) Conrad Keijzer joined AkzoNobel in 1994 as Market Maëlys Castella was Group Deputy CFO at Air Liquide Marten Booisma joined AkzoNobel as Chief Human Development Manager for Industrial Chemicals. Since before joining AkzoNobel in 2014. She earned an Resources Officer in 2013. He spent the previous six then, he has held a variety of management positions Engineering degree at Ecole Centrale Paris. She also years in this position at Royal Ahold. Having graduated within Performance Coatings and Specialty Chemicals. has a Master’s degree in Energy Management & Policy from the University of Amsterdam with a Master of These include being appointed Global Director from the University of Pennsylvania and the French Science in Politics, he started his career in HR at Shell For further information please for Automotive Plastic Coatings and serving as Institute of Petroleum. Her early career included finance and Unilever. He then moved on to assume various see About us > Management on Managing Director for both the Packaging Coatings roles in the oil and gas industry. senior management positions at Ahold. akzonobel.com and Industrial Coatings businesses. 100 Leadership | AkzoNobel Report 2014 Ton Büchner Ruud Joosten Werner Fuhrmann Sven Dumoulin CEO and Chairman of the Board of Management Member of the Executive Committee responsible Member of the Executive Committee responsible General Counsel and and the Executive Committee for Decorative Paints for Specialty Chemicals Member of the Executive Committee (1965, Dutch) (1964, Dutch) (1953, German) (1970, Dutch) Prior to joining AkzoNobel, Ton Büchner was President After graduating from Amsterdam Free University Werner Fuhrmann was appointed to his current role Sven Dumoulin joined AkzoNobel as General Counsel and CEO of Sulzer Corporation. An engineer by with a Masters in Economics, Ruud Joosten joined in 2012. He was previously Managing Director of the in 2010 and holds a PhD in Law from the University training, he earned a Master of Science in Civil AkzoNobel in 1996 as International Marketing Manager company’s Industrial Chemicals business, a position of Groningen. Previously he was Group Secretary Engineering at Delft University of Technology in the for Decorative Paints. Since then, he has held various he first took up in 2005. During his early career with at Unilever. Outside AkzoNobel, he is a member of Netherlands, and a Master in Business Administration management positions within Decorative Paints AkzoNobel, he held various positions in the field of various Legal Professional Associations in both the from IMD in Lausanne. His early career in the oil and and Specialty Chemicals, including BU Manager for finance. He is also Chairman of the Dutch Chemicals Netherlands and abroad. From 2003 to 2007, he held gas construction industry involved roles at Allseas Decorative Paints North and Eastern Europe and Industry Association (VNCI). professorships in company law at the Universities of Engineering and AkerKvaerner. Managing Director of Pulp and Performance Chemicals. Groningen and Tilburg. AkzoNobel Report 2014 | Leadership 101 Statement of the Board of Management The Board of Management’s All these processes and procedures are aimed at providing During the fourth quarter, it came to light that the company statement on the financial a reasonable level of assurance that we have identified and managed the significant risks of our company and that we had been subject to an external fraud targeted at one of its subsidiaries located in Chicago (US). In response to statements, the management meet our operational and financial objectives in compliance the matter, independent legal counsel – assisted by an report and internal controls. with applicable laws and regulations. The individual components of the above set of internal controls are in line independent audit firm – was assigned to investigate. Every effort is being made to recover the funds and the with the COSO Enterprise Risk Management Framework. company may be able to reduce the ultimate financial We have prepared the Report 2014, and the undertakings With respect to supporting and monitoring of compliance impact of the fraud. For more information, see the Risk included in the consolidation taken as a whole, in with laws and regulations – including our Code of Conduct – management chapter. accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards a Compliance Committee has been established. The (IFRS), as adopted by the EU and additional Dutch disclosure Internal Control function maintains AkzoNobel’s Internal Outlook requirements for annual reports. Control Framework, monitors the compliance and includes We anticipate that significant developments in raw material updates regarding the emergence of new risks. They support prices, combined with relevant exchange rate movements To the best of our knowledge: the annual review of the effectiveness of the system of and lower growth rates in high growth economies, will • The financial statements in this Report 2014 give a true governance, risk management and internal controls of the principally determine the dynamics of 2015. The preparations and fair view of our assets and liabilities; our financial Board of Management. Internal Audit provides reasonable made in 2013 and 2014 will form a sound basis for further position at December 31, 2014; and the result of our assurance to the Board of Management, as well as the improve­ments in 2015. The company remains on track to consolidated operations for the financial year 2014 Supervisory Board, that our system of risk management deliver its targets for 2015. • The management report in this Report 2014 includes a and internal controls, as designed and represented by fair review of the development and performance of our management, are adequate and effective. businesses and the position of AkzoNobel, as well as the Amsterdam, February 11, 2015 undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a While we routinely work towards continuous improvement of The Board of Management whole, and describes the principal risks and uncertainties our processes and procedures regarding financial reporting, Ton Büchner that we face the Board of Management is of the opinion that with regards Maëlys Castella to financial reporting risks, the internal risk management and The Board of Management is responsible for the control systems: establishment and adequate functioning of a system of governance, risk management and internal controls in our • Provide a reasonable level of assurance that the financial company. Consequently, the Board of Management has reporting in this Report 2014 does not contain any errors implemented a broad range of processes and procedures of material importance designed to provide control by the Board of Management • Have worked properly during the year 2014 over the company’s operations. These processes and procedures include measures regarding the general control For a detailed description of the risk management environment, such as a Code of Conduct – including system and the principal risks identified, reference is business principles and a corporate complaints procedure made to the Risk management chapter in the Strategic (SpeakUp!) – corporate directives and authority schedules, performance section, as well as the Compliance and as well as specific measures, such as a risk management integrity management chapter of the Governance and system, a system of controls and a system of letters of compliance section. We have discussed the above opinion representation by responsible management at various levels and conclusions with the Audit Committee, the Supervisory within our company. Board and the external auditor. 102 Leadership | AkzoNobel Report 2014 Our Supervisory Board Antony Burgmans Uwe-Ernst Bufe Sari Baldauf Dolf van den Brink (1947, Dutch) (1944, German) (1955, Finnish) (1948 – 2014*, Dutch) Chairman Deputy Chairman Initial appointment: 2012 Initial appointment: 2004 Initial appointment: 2006 Initial appointment: 2003 Current term of office: 2012-2016 Current term of office: 2014-2018 Current term of office: 2011-2015 Former member of the Managing Board of Former member of the Group Executive Board of ABN AMRO Bank; Former Chairman and CEO of Unilever N.V. and plc.; Former CEO of Degussa AG; Nokia Oyj; Chairman of the Supervisory Boards of Elsevier Reed Non-executive Director of BP plc.; Member of the Supervisory Board of Umicore SA. Former non-executive Director of F-Secure Oyj; Finance B.V., Nederlandse Waterschapsbank N.V. Member of the Supervisory Boards of SHV Holdings N.V. Chairman of the Board of Fortun Oyj; and Center Parcs Europe N.V.; and Jumbo Group Holding B.V.; Supervisory Board member at Daimler AG and Supervisory Director of Legal & General Nederland N.V., Chairman of the Supervisory Board of TNT Express N.V. Deutsche Telekom. KBC Bank and De Heus Nederland B.V. •C hairman of the Nomination Committee as of * Dolf van den Brink passed away on • Chairman of the Remuneration Committee May 1, 2014 December 22, 2014. as of May 1, 2014 • Member of the Remuneration Committee • Member of the Nomination Committee Peggy Bruzelius Byron E. Grote Louis Hughes Ben Verwaayen (1949, Swedish) (1948, American and British) (1949, American) (1952, Dutch) Initial appointment: 2007 Initial appointment: 2014 Initial appointment: 2006 Initial appointment: 2012 Current term of office: 2011-2015 Current term of office: 2014-2018 Current term of office: 2014-2018 Current term of office: 2012-2016 Former CEO of ABB Financial Services; Non-executive Director at Unilever N.V. and plc.; Former President and COO of Lockheed Martin; Former CEO Alcatel-Lucent; Former Executive Vice-President of SEB; Non-executive Director at Anglo-American plc.; Former Executive Vice-President of General Motors; Former Chief Executive/Chairman of the Board’s Non-executive Director of Axfood AB, Lundin Petroleum AB, Non-executive Director at Standard Chartered plc.; Chairman of InZeroSystems LLC; Operating Committee of BT group; Skandia Mutual Life Insurance and Diageo plc.; Former Board member BP plc. Member of the Boards of Directors of ABB group Non-executive Director of Akamai Technologies Inc. Chairman of Lancelot Asset Management AB. and Alcatel-Lucent SA; and Bharti Airtel Ltd. • Member of the Audit Committee Executive Advisor of Wind Point Partners. • Member of the Audit Committee • Member of the Remuneration Committee • Chairman (ad. interim) of the Audit Committee • Member of the Nomination Committee AkzoNobel Report 2014 | Leadership 103 Supervisory Board Chairman’s statement 2014 has been a year of transition Following the completion of Karel Vuursteen’s 12-year While 2014 was a year that many had hoped would bring for the company and a year of term of office as member of the Supervisory Board, I was appointed as Chairman in April, 2014. At the same time, improvement in the global business climate, we in fact saw slowing growth in Asia, Russia and the eurozone, advancement in pursuance of as part of our succession planning for the replacement of coupled with heightened tensions in regional diplomatic and Sir Peter Ellwood – who stepped down after six years as economic relations. It is a sign of the strength and stability the company’s strategy. Despite Supervisory Board and Audit Committee member – we have of the company’s strategy that despite the challenging challenging global and macrowelcomed Mr. Byron E. Grote to both the Supervisory Board economic environment, AkzoNobel’s performance has been and the Audit Committee. The Supervisory Board would like maintained and enhanced in a number of key areas. This economic circumstances we have to express its gratitude for the commitment and services of achievement provides the Supervisory Board with confidence sought to build on our successes Mr. Vuursteen and Sir Peter Ellwood. in the Executive Committee’s strategic direction moving forward into the forthcoming year. to date, including our top ranking Shortly before the end of the year, we sadly lost a valued in the Materials industry group of member of the Supervisory Board when Mr. Dolf van den The Supervisory Board was provided with tangible insights Brink passed away on December 22. Dolf was a respected into the impact of the company’s strategy during our visit the Dow Jones Sustainability Index and inspirational colleague who was held in the highest to Frankfurt in Germany. Supervisory Board members for the third year in succession. regard by us all. It was an honor and a pleasure to have were given a first-hand view of the company’s operations worked with him. A Supervisory Board member for the in the European chemical industry and a comprehensive last ten years, he leaves a professional legacy which the impression of European competitiveness relative to other company will continue to draw from. regions. This visit, as with other annual country visits, allowed us to appreciate the local and personal side of During 2014, the company welcomed Maëlys Castella the AkzoNobel business and assisted us in maintaining a to the Board of Management as Chief Financial Officer comprehensive understanding of management’s activities. (CFO), succeeding Mr. Keith Nichols. Maëlys’ background in a broad set of corporate finance disciplines, as well as Throughout 2014, the company continued to seek her experience in marketing to a large variety of customer advancement on its market leading positions through end-user segments, has allowed her to make a strong customer focused organic growth, operational excellence start. The Supervisory Board members are pleased that and sustainability. It has built on its core principles of Safety, her expertise will be applied in the development of future Integrity and Sustainability through the introduction of our strategic agendas for the company. four, clear and simple values: Customer focused, Deliver on commitments, Passion for excellence and Winning together. Performance measurement and reporting tools have been built around these and targets have been established and linked to remuneration in order to embed a culture of continuous improvement. Transparency, accountability and messaging have also been improved. Such efforts enhance efficiencies and the Supervisory Board is happy to have seen the company progress towards its 2015 targets over the past year. 104 Leadership | AkzoNobel Report 2014 We are particularly proud that AkzoNobel has advanced on The Supervisory Board also appreciates its own vital its Planet Possible sustainability program and was again role in the company’s governance and we take steps to ranked first on the Dow Jones Sustainability Index (in the ensure that we are adequately equipped, well trained and Materials industry group). This is the third consecutive performance assessed. We engage in a thorough Board year that we have been ranked top, out of more than 350 evaluation process, and you will see more details on all the companies, and the ninth consecutive year that we have activities of the Supervisory Board during the reporting year been ranked in the top three. The ranking demonstrates the in this section, along with relevant information regarding the company’s sustainability performance and resource efficiency Supervisory Board members. and is an example of our “Winning together” philosophy. After all, a sustainable business enhances value for all our It only remains for me to thank my fellow Supervisory Board stakeholders, while at the same time securing our own longmembers for welcoming me as Chairman and for their term success. support and commitment during the past year. I believe that our diverse mix of backgrounds and breadth of expertise will In the fourth quarter of 2014, the company was confronted allow us to act seamlessly in our oversight of management with an external fraud targeted at one of its subsidiaries and the company’s strategy and activities. We would like located in Chicago (US). After a thorough external to thank the CEO, the new CFO, the other members of the investigation, it was concluded that customary and Executive Committee and all employees for their dedication appropriate controls were in place, which were breached, and hard work in securing the achievements of 2014. and that creating ongoing awareness on fraud attempts is the additional effort needed. For more information, see the Risk management chapter. The Supervisory Board is reassured by the fact that good corporate governance in particular has always been recognized as integral to the effective operation of AkzoNobel, the safeguarding of its assets and the achievement of its strategic objectives. In recognition of Antony Burgmans this, we dedicate a section of our annual report to Chairman of the Supervisory Board Governance and compliance, where we elaborate on our corporate governance framework, remuneration policy, compliance codes and systems, integrity management and shareholder relations. AkzoNobel Report 2014 | Leadership 105 Report of the Supervisory Board Main 2014 activities Meetings Supervisory Board Review of the company’s strategy and actions The Supervisory Board held ten meetings during 2014. Six attendance record including Business Area and functional updates. were plenary sessions with the full Executive Committee The Supervisory Board is confident that the following present for all or part of the meetings. Two meetings were table shows all members made adequate time available Review and monitoring of the company’s held without the full Executive Committee present; the Board to give sufficient attention to the company. If Supervisory sustainability performance. of Management attended seven of the ten meetings. All Board members are unable to attend a Supervisory Board Supervisory Board meetings except one were preceded or committee meeting, they inform the Chairman stating The Supervisory Board visited Frankfurt in Germany, or succeeded by an executive session of the Supervisory the reason. They also have the opportunity to discuss providing members with a first-hand view of the Board, with the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) in attendance. any agenda items with the Chairman of the Supervisory company’s operations in the European chemical An attendance overview of the Supervisory Board and its Board and the chairmen of the committees. Attendance is industry and a comprehensive impression of committees can be seen on this page. The Chairman of the expressed as the number of meetings attended out of the European competitiveness relative to other regions. Supervisory Board prepared the meetings with the Corporate number eligible to attend. Secretary and discussed matters such as the agendas with Senior executive succession in the Board of the CEO. Management and Executive Committee, resulting Supervisory Board attendance record in Maëlys Castella’s nomination and election as SB AC RC NC Chief Financial Officer (CFO) for the company at an Antony Burgmans 9/10 – 3/3 3/3 Extraordinary General Meeting of shareholders on Sari Baldauf 10/10 – 3/3 2/2 October 8, 2014. Dolf van den Brink 8/10 5/6 – – Revision of the Supervisory Board’s Rules Peggy Bruzelius 10/10 6/6 – – of Procedure. Uwe-Ernst Bufe 9/10 – – – Byron E. Grote 7/7 4/4 – – Revision of the Board of Management and Louis Hughes 10/10 6/6 – – Executive Committee Rules of Procedure. Ben Verwaayen 8/10 – 2/3 2/3 The table indicates the meeting attendance for the Supervisory Board (SB), the Audit Committee (AC), the Remuneration Committee (RC) and the Nomination Committee (NC). 106 Leadership | AkzoNobel Report 2014 Supervisory Board activities Specific project-oriented reviews were also undertaken. visit to the Specialty Chemicals site in Frankfurt. The visit In terms of functional aspects of the company’s work, provided a detailed insight into the company’s activities, An important point of note in the Supervisory Board’s work strategy updates were provided from Human Resources, both in Germany and within the context of the wider during 2014 was the review of its Rules of Procedure, which Global Business Services and Sustainability. These reviews European market. It involved, in particular, an overview of brought about two broad changes. Firstly, the Supervisory were in addition to the Supervisory Board’s broad and Specialty Chemicals’ businesses in the region and a clear Board specified that it shall review and approve financial high level review of strategy and risk for the group and its outline of efficiency drivers for AkzoNobel’s wider internal information and disclosures from the business and the implementation of a performance-driven culture. support functions there. Overall, the trip established a useful Board of Management on a quarterly basis. This adjustment snapshot of the competitiveness of the European market in formalizes the extent to which the Supervisory Board reviews The Supervisory Board continued to review and monitor comparison to other regions. and supervises the financial performance of the business. the company’s sustainability performance data in 2014, its performance indicators for safety performance, During the fourth quarter, it came to light that the company Secondly, the Supervisory Board took the step of requiring eco-efficiency improve­ment and employee engagement, had been subject to an external fraud targeted at one in its Rules of Procedure that members of the Supervisory including diversity and inclusion and talent management. of its subsidiaries located in Chicago (US). In response to Board shall be submitted for re-election no more than Sustainability is a strategic focus area for AkzoNobel and the matter, independent legal counsel – assisted by an two times, each time for a period not exceeding four years. the Supervisory Board, and represents a core principle and independent audit firm – was assigned to investigate. Every This change sets out to reinforce the value that the guideline for the way the business is run. The Supervisory effort is being made to recover the funds and the company Supervisory Board places in the independence of its Board recognized that AkzoNobel has, over the past may be able to reduce the ultimate financial impact of members and their ability to act critically and independently decade, built a strong foundation for sustainability and is the fraud. For more information, see the Risk management of the Board of Management and the company. recognized as a leader in its industry, demonstrated by the chapter. company maintaining its number one position (for the third During 2014, the Supervisory Board dealt with succession consecutive year) in the Materials industry group on the 2014 The Supervisory Board continued to engage in training planning. In particular, the Supervisory Board Chairman Dow Jones Sustainability Index. The Supervisory Board and evaluation of its performance. The Supervisory Board Mr. Vuursteen reached the end of his tenure in 2014 and the considers it of key importance that the company maintains members participated in AkzoNobel’s online compliance Supervisory Board welcomed his successor Mr. Burgmans, and strengthens this leadership position. The Supervisory training modules on an ongoing basis. who was appointed as of the Annual General Meeting of Board therefore supports the 2020 sustainability strategy shareholders (AGM) 2014. A diligent and careful approach and the Planet Possible concept, a next level approach A thorough operational planning process was followed was adopted in order to identify, select and prepare Mr. to sustainability which is fully focused on creating more during the year, resulting in a 2015 budget and operational Burgmans for his role as the new Chairman. At the end of value from fewer resources and achievement of long-term plan, which was reviewed and approved by the the year, the Supervisory Board suffered the loss of one sustainable business by continuing to live by our values. Supervisory Board. of its members when Mr. van den Brink passed away on December 22, 2014. His commitment and dedication to In 2014, the outcome of enterprise risk management The three Executive Committee members with Business the company, his ten-year tenure as a Supervisory Board sessions were presented to the Supervisory Board for the Area responsibilities provided regular updates to inform the member and his role as Chairman of the Audit Committee purpose of identifying corrective actions to continue to Supervisory Board on safety, competitive behavior, projects reflect the scale of his legacy. address the top ten risks. Further details are included in and year-to-date financials. the Risk management chapter and the Strategic The Supervisory Board has continued to take an active role performance section. in reviewing and discussing the company’s strategy and strategic options together with the CEO, the CFO and the In September 2014, the Supervisory Board and the Executive Committee. In 2014, the Supervisory Board’s Executive Committee visited some of the company’s sites strategy review included a comprehensive Business Area in Germany. This included meetings with major customers, analysis of forward-looking targets and detailed action plans. local management and other stakeholders, as well as a AkzoNobel Report 2014 | Leadership 107 Financial statements and Supervisory Board evaluation Audit Committee profit allocation Each year the Supervisory Board undertakes an assessment During 2014, the Audit Committee consisted of its chairman, The financial statements of Akzo Nobel N.V. for the financial of its effectiveness. This is done through an internal Mr. van den Brink, and three other members – Mr. Hughes, year 2014 were audited by KPMG Accountants N.V.. The evaluation of its performance, those of its individual Mrs. Bruzelius and Sir Peter Ellwood (who was replaced Board of Management submitted the financial statements, members, its Remuneration Committee and Nomination by Mr. Grote following the 2014 AGM) – all of whom have together with the report of the Board of Management, the Committee. Once every three years, instead of an internal accounting and financial management expertise. report and management letter of the external auditor to the assessment, the Supervisory Board undergoes an external On December 22, 2014 Mr. Van den Brink sadly passed Supervisory Board. assessment facilitated by a specialist firm. away. As a result, the chairmanship of the committee is being fulfilled on an interim basis by Mr. Hughes. The Audit The financial statements, the report and management letter The Supervisory Board will undergo this assessment Committee held six meetings during 2014. The attendance of the external auditor were discussed extensively with the of performance with regard to the year 2014. As the record of the members can be seen in the previous auditors by the Audit Committee, in the presence of the Supervisory Board believes that the external assessment is attendance chart. Issues discussed in Audit Committee CEO and CFO, and by the full Supervisory Board with the a vital tool for assessing its effectiveness, the assessment meetings were reported back to the full Supervisory Board in full Board of Management. Based on these discussions, the will be carried out in the first months of 2015. subsequent meetings. Supervisory Board is of the opinion that the 2014 financial statements of Akzo Nobel N.V. form a good basis to account for the supervision provided (see the Financial information Main 2014 activities section). The Audit Committee monitors the follow-up by • Review of the effectiveness of internal controls (including management of the recommendations reported by the internal audit findings), in particular over financial reporting external auditor. • Review of external audit conclusions and the audit report • Review of the 2014 annual report and financial statements The Supervisory Board recommends that the AGM adopts • Review of AkzoNobel’s dividend direction the financial statements as presented in this Report 2014 • External auditor independence and, as proposed by the Board of Management, approve • Internal Audit Plan 2015 and follow-up on Internal Audit the proposed total dividend for 2014 of €1.45 per common Plan 2014 share outstanding. This is consistent with the company’s aim • Review of the external investigation of, and management to provide a stable to rising dividend. It is proposed that this response to, the external fraud in Chicago (US) amount, less the interim dividend of €0.33 – which was paid in November 2014 – be made payable on May 19, 2015. The dividend will, at the shareholder’s discretion, be paid either in cash or in shares. In addition, we request that the AGM discharges the members of the Board of Management from their responsibility for the conduct of business in 2014 and the members of the Supervisory Board for their supervision in 2014. 108 Leadership | AkzoNobel Report 2014 Results/financial statements In addition, the Audit Committee reviewed the annual the external auditor also performed certain procedures in Before each announcement of the quarterly results and operational plan (including budget) and AkzoNobel’s respect of the financial outcomes as of the same date) before the annual financial statements, the Audit Committee dividend proposals. On fulfilling its oversight responsibilities • The quality of external audit reviewed the financial results and was consulted on the in relation to governance, risk management and internal • Impact of new IFRS rules reports and press releases to be published and those issues control systems, the Audit Committee met regularly with reviewed by the Disclosure Committee. Supervisory Board senior executives. The General Counsel reported to the Audit The Audit Committee performed the annual review of the members were advised on such publications and disclosures Committee on the company’s compliance framework and services of the external auditor, and continues to closely by the Audit Committee and, as of September 2014, compliance activities, and on major litigation and monitor international discussions on auditor independence. approval of the full Supervisory Board is required ahead of liability exposure. Following the independence requirements, in April 2014, any quarterly or annual release of financial results. Mr. Van Leeuwen took over as lead partner from Mr. Internal audit function Weusten, who held this position since July 2007. The AGM The Audit Committee is updated regularly on IFRS The Internal Auditor reports directly to the Audit Committee in April 2014 decided to follow the proposed switch to a new developments and the anticipated impact on the financial and presents all main audit findings and reports directly to audit firm as of the review of the 2016 financial statements. statements, and was briefed on management assertions. the committee. The Audit Committee reviewed the internal Further details on the external auditor can be found in the audit plan and strategy and agreed its budget and resource Corporate governance statement. Governance, risk management and requirements. The mandatory external evaluation of the internal control systems performance and quality of the Internal Audit function Evaluation The Audit Committee reviewed AkzoNobel’s overall approach by the Dutch Institute of Internal Auditors was reviewed, The annual evaluation of the Audit Committee is undertaken to governance, risk management and internal control with members being satisfied with the effectiveness of the by the Audit Committee itself in conjunction with the systems, its processes, outcomes and disclosures. It also function. The Audit Committee met independently with the Supervisory Board. Once every three years, the Audit reflected on the weak market conditions in Europe, the Corporate Director of Internal Audit during the year and Committee undergoes an external assessment of its impact of the restructuring and discussed discussed the results of the audits performed. performance. Results of the evaluation are subsequently contingency planning. reviewed both in the Audit Committee and through the External auditor invitation of the Audit Committee, at full During 2014, the Audit Committee discussed: KPMG Accountants N.V., AkzoNobel’s external auditor, Supervisory Board meetings. • Risk management procedure and report reported in depth to the Audit Committee on the scope and • Internal control assessment procedures and report outcome of the annual audit of the financial statements, The Audit Committee will undergo its triennial external • Compliance with primary and secondary legislation including the consolidated financial statements and the assessment of performance with regard to the year 2014. (internal framework, monitoring and processes and company financial statements. This evaluation will be undertaken in the first months compliance reports) of 2015. • Internal Audit planning and summary of findings The Audit Committee held independent meetings with the • HSE and sustainability audits planning and summary external auditor during the year and reviewed and challenged of findings the external auditor’s approach to auditing the company, • Internal Audit statement on quality and effectiveness of the engagement letter, fees, risk assessment and audit plan. company’s risk management and internal control systems Other topics discussed included: • Post investment reviews • Hard close (as part of making the year-end process more • Treasury strategy efficient, and in order to highlight important issues for • Tax strategy the annual financial statements, as well as giving timely • Litigation and claims attention to important issues, AkzoNobel performed a • Pension de-risking strategy hard close as of October 31, 2014. Aligned with this, • Information management strategy AkzoNobel Report 2014 | Leadership 109 Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee reviewed the performance Nomination Committee of the members of the Board of Management and the The Remuneration Committee consists of three members Executive Committee. Recommendations were made on the The Nomination Committee consists of three members and and is chaired by Ms. Baldauf. Mr. Verwaayen and remuneration and personal targets for members of the Board is chaired by Mr. Burgmans. The other two members are Mr. Burgmans are the other members of the committee. of Management and the other members of the Executive Ms. Baldauf and Mr. Verwaayen. The committee held three Mr. Vuursteen was a member of the committee until the Committee. Proposals for the remuneration of Executive meetings in 2014. The attendance record of the members of end of his tenure at the 2014 AGM. The Remuneration Committee members were reviewed and discussed with the committee can be seen in the previous attendance chart. Committee held three meetings in 2014. The attendance the CEO. Along with this, the committee reviewed the record of the members can be seen in the previous remuneration of the members of the Supervisory Board and attendance chart. the pension plan of the Executive Committee. Main 2014 activities • Recommendation for the reduction of the number Further details on the remuneration policy and its of Supervisory Board members Main 2014 activities implementation for 2014 are outlined in the Remuneration • Successful succession of the Chairman through the • Review of management performance and base salaries report chapter in the Governance and compliance nomination and appointment of Mr. Burgmans for 2014 section. Information on the remuneration of the Board of • Successful succession of Sir Peter Ellwood through the • Review of changes to pension legislation in Management and the Supervisory Board can be found in nomination and appointment of Mr. Grote the Netherlands Note 22 of the Consolidated financial statements. • Recommendation for the reappointment of Mr. Hughes • Review of changes to claw back legislation • Successful nomination and recruitment of Mrs. Castella to • Review of long-term and short-term incentive plans the Board of Management as new CFO • Forward-looking assessment of targets for 2015 110 Leadership | AkzoNobel Report 2014 During 2014, the Nomination Committee dealt with Committee. This was supported by the Supervisory Board In memoriam succession planning in order to identify individuals for and her nomination was approved at an Extraordinary re-election and potential candidates for nomination. General Meeting of shareholders held on October 8, 2014. If external candidates are sourced by the Nomination Committee, it engages the services of an executive search As part of the Nomination Committee’s forward-looking agency that employs a rigorous search process after first succession planning, they have engaged the services of gaining a thorough understanding of AkzoNobel’s strategic an executive search agency to assist with the succession ambitions, the specific leadership roles and competencies of Mr. Uwe-Ernst Bufe, and of Mr. Dolf van den Brink, who needed to meet those ambitions and the culture of sadly passed away during the year. our organization. In the course of 2014, the Nomination Committee Additional remarks considered and recommended the reduction of the number of Supervisory Board members. The Nomination All members of the Supervisory Board would like to express Committee made several recommendations on successions. their gratitude to the Board of Management and the These included, following his identification in 2013, the other members of the Executive Committee, as well as all recommendation to appoint Mr. Grote as a member of the employees around the world, for their dedication and hard Supervisory Board in succession of Sir Peter Ellwood, who work for the company in 2014. reached the end of his tenure in 2014. The Supervisory Board would like to remember the During 2014, Mr. Vuursteen reached the end of his 12-year commitment and dedication of one of its own members, Dolf van den Brink tenure and retired as Chairman at the 2014 AGM. The Nomination Committee recommended the appointment of Mr. Dolf van den Brink, whose presence will be sadly missed. 1948-2014 Mr. Burgmans to the role of Chairman of the Supervisory Board as of the 2014 AGM. Mr. Burgmans had no Amsterdam, February 11, 2015 The Supervisory Board involvement in discussions regarding his nomination as Chairman of the Supervisory Board. During 2014, the Nomination Committee advised on the reappointment of Mr. Hughes at the 2014 AGM. The Supervisory Board reviewed, supported and approved the recommendations made by the committee. Together with the CEO, the committee devoted considerable time to senior executive succession planning. After a thorough selection process, with the assistance of an executive search agency and the consideration of both external and internal candidates, a recommendation was made by the Nomination Committee – following proposal by the CEO – for the appointment of Mrs. Castella as CFO and member of the Board of Management and the Executive AkzoNobel Report 2014 | Leadership 111 Crystal clear benefits Salt is essential for life. As one of the world’s leading salt specialists, we supply products for a variety of applications, including electrolysis, pharmaceuticals, de-icing, water softening and food processing. Governance and compliance In this section, we outline our corporate governance structure and explain the remuneration of our Board of Management. Information about compliance and integrity management and AkzoNobel on the capital markets is also included. Corporate governance statement 114 Compliance and integrity management 122 Remuneration report 128 AkzoNobel on the capital markets 135 Governance and compliance AkzoNobel Report 2014 | Governance and compliance 113 Corporate governance statement AkzoNobel values high standards of corporate governance and seeks to consistently enhance and improve corporate governance performance, emphasizing transparency in accordance Shareholders with applicable guidelines and regulations. Supervisory Board Board of Management Executive Committee Business Area Business Area Business Area Functions Countries Decorative Paints Performance Coatings Specialty Chemicals Decorative Paints Performance Coatings Specialty Chemicals Businesses Businesses Businesses 114 Governance and compliance | AkzoNobel Report 2014 Akzo Nobel N.V. is a public limited liability company which has been compiled and rolled out to all employees The Supervisory Board has regular direct interaction with (Naamloze Vennootschap) established under the laws of in order to drive governance, consistency and functional all members of the Executive Committee and all Executive the Netherlands. Its common shares are listed on Euronext excellence throughout the company. Committee members attend the major part of most Amsterdam. AkzoNobel has a sponsored level 1 American Supervisory Board meetings. Depositary Receipt (ADR) program and ADRs can be traded on the international OTCQX platform in the US. Board of Management and The CEO leads the Executive Committee in its overall The company’s management and supervision structure ­Executive Committee management of the company to achieve its performance goals and objectives. He is the main point of liaison with the is organized in a so-called two-tier system, comprising a General Supervisory Board. The CFO is responsible for overseeing combined Board of Management and Executive Committee, The Board of Management is entrusted with the AkzoNobel’s finances and information management. solely composed of executive members, and a Supervisory management of the company and operates in the context Board, solely composed of non-executive directors. The of an Executive Committee. The Executive Committee The company has organized its activities into three ­Business Supervisory Board supervises the Board of Management and comprises the members of the Board of Management, Areas: Decorative Paints, Performance Coatings and Executive Committee, and ensures that external experience currently the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) and Chief Specialty Chemicals. Each Business Area is led by a member and knowledge are embedded in the company’s conduct. Financial Officer (CFO), business leaders and leaders with of the Executive Committee. To manage our business in The two Boards are independent of each other and are functional ­expertise, allowing both the functions and the a more operational way, an Operational Control Cycle is accountable to the Annual General Meeting of shareholders Business Areas to be represented at the highest level in conducted once per month. For each Business Area, there (AGM) for the performance of their functions. the ­organization. The functions currently represented in the are Operational Review M ­ eetings comprising of the CEO, Executive ­Committee directly are Human Resources, Legal, the CFO, the General Counsel and the relevant Business Our corporate governance framework is based on the Finance and Information Management. Area’s leadership. These provide a forum for a more in-depth company’s Articles of Association, the requirements of operational discussion on subjects relevant to the Business the Dutch Civil Code, the Dutch Corporate Governance Among other responsibilities, the members of the ­Executive Area. In addition, Functional and Country Review Meetings Code (the Code), and all applicable laws and regulations Committee define the strategic direction, establish the are held to review upcoming proposals and progress on including securities laws. The Code contains principles ­policies and manage the company’s day-to-day operations. the respective functional and country agendas. Twice per and best practices for Dutch companies with listed shares. In performing its duties, the Executive Committee is guided year in each Business Area’s Operational Review Meeting, Deviations from the Code – currently the company deviates by the interests of the company and its affiliated enterprises, the functional agendas of Sustainability and HSE, Human only from the Code’s provision IV.1.1 – are explained in taking into consideration the relevant interests of the Resources, Commercial Excellence, Integrated Supply Chain accordance with the Code’s “apply or explain” principle. company’s stakeholders. and Research, Development and Innovation are discussed. With the exception of those aspects of our governance structure which can only be amended with the approval of The members of the Board of Management remain The Managing Directors of our businesses, the Country the AGM, the Board of Management and the Supervisory jointly and individually accountable for all decisions made Directors and the Corporate Functional Directors in charge Board may make adjustments to the way the Code is applied by the Executive Committee. All Executive Committee of the different functions, report to individual Executive if this is considered to be in the interests of the company. If ­decisions require a majority of the members of the Board Committee members with specific responsibility for their adjustments are made, they will be published and reported in of ­Management. The Board of Management can decide to activities and performance. the annual report for the relevant year. reserve decisions for the Board of Management. The Board of Management is accountable for its performance to the The Executive Committee Pensions, chaired by the CFO, The Board of Management and Executive Committee have separate and independent Supervisory Board. The Board of oversees the general pension policies (to be) implemented established a Code of Conduct, and a set of Business Management is also answerable to the shareholders of the in the various pension plans of the company. The Executive Policies – together with directives, rules, manuals and company at the AGM. The Executive Committee members Committee member responsible for HR and the General guidelines – as part of the company’s Directives Framework, who are not also a member of the Board of Management Counsel are also members. report to the CEO. AkzoNobel Report 2014 | Governance and compliance 115 The company has a Sustainability Council, which advises the Authority to represent the company is vested in two or more Members of the Board of Management and Executive Executive Committee on sustainability developments. It also members of the Board of Management acting jointly. This Committee are not allowed to hold more than one monitors the integration of sustainability into management includes the signing of documents. The Board of Management supervisory board membership or non-executive directorship processes and oversees the company’s sustainability has also delegated a level of authority to corporate agents, in another listed company. This is more stringent than targets and overall sustainability performance. The council including those members of the Executive Committee who are the Code (provision II.1.8) and the Act on Management is chaired by the CEO and includes representatives from not also members of the Board of Management. The list of and Super­vision (Wet bestuur en Toezicht), which allows the Executive Committee, Managing Directors from our authorized signatories is publicly available. members of a board of ­management two such supervisory businesses and Corporate Directors of Strategy, Human board memberships or non-executive directorships. The Resources, ­Sustainability and HSE, Supply Chain/Research Appointment exception to this rule is that in the 18 months prior to their and Development, Sourcing, and Communications. Progress Board of Management members are appointed and removed retirement, Executive Committee members are allowed to regarding sustainability objectives, development, target from office by the AGM. The other members of the ­Executive hold more than one such supervisory board membership or setting and implementation is reviewed quarterly by the Committee are appointed by the CEO, subject to the non-executive directorship in order to allow them to prepare Executive Committee and semi-annually by the Supervisory approval of the Supervisory Board. for retirement, provided that this does not interfere with the Board, and is verified annually by KPMG Sustainability (part performance of their tasks as members of the Executive of KPMG Advisory N.V.). Our sustainability framework is Members of the Board of Management are appointed for Committee. Furthermore, an exception can be made for further explained in the Sustainability statements section. four-year terms (or less), with the possibility of reappointment an executive joining the Executive Committee. However, at the expiry of each term. a maximum of two supervisory board memberships or The company has a Compliance Committee to support non-executive directorships will apply. Acceptance of the Executive Committee with its responsibility in assuring As described later in this section, the Meeting of Holders of external supervisory board memberships or non-executive and managing compliance, and with its reporting to Priority Shares has the right to make binding nominations for directorships in other listed companies by members of the Supervisory Board. The Compliance Committee the appointment of members of the Board of Management the Executive Committee is subject to approval by the systematically identifies material compliance risks, assists and the Supervisory Board. However, as the company Supervisory Board, for which authority has been delegated in assurance of compliance with laws, regulations and subscribes to the principles of the Code in general, members to the Chairman of the Supervisory Board. ethical standards, monitors compliance and reports findings of the Supervisory Board and the Board of Management and recommendations to the Executive Committee. The are appointed on the basis of a non-binding nomination Conflict of interest Compliance Committee consists of the General Counsel by the Supervisory Board other than in the circumstances The handling of (potential) conflicts of interest between the (chair), Corporate Secretary, Senior Legal Counsel and described under the Appointment paragraph later in this company and members of the Board of Management is Corporate Directors of Internal Audit, Control, Compliance, section. governed by the Articles of Association and the Rules of Human Resources and Sustainability and HSE. Our Procedure for the Board of Management and Executive compliance and integrity management system is explained in In all other circumstances, resolutions to appoint a member Committee. A member of the Board of Management and more detail in the Compliance and integrity of the Supervisory Board or the Board of Management the other members of the Executive Committee shall not management chapter. will therefore require a simple majority of the votes cast ­participate in the discussions and decision-making on a by shareholders. Under certain conditions specified in the subject or transaction in relation to which he/she has a Rules of Procedure for the Board of Management Articles of Association, shareholders may also be entitled conflict of interest with the company. Decisions to enter into and the Executive Committee to nominate Supervisory Board or Board of Management transactions under which members have conflicts of interest The tasks and responsibilities, as well as internal procedural members for appointment. Such nominations require a that are of material significance to the company – and to matters for the Executive Committee, are addressed in two-thirds majority representing at least 50 percent of the the relevant Board of Management or Executive Committee the Rules of Procedure for the Board of Management and outstanding share capital in order to be adopted at a members – require the approval of the Supervisory Board. Executive Committee. These rules have been reviewed and General Meeting. Any such decisions involving members of the Board of approved by the Supervisory Board and are available on the Management will be recorded in the annual report for the company’s website. relevant year, with reference to the conflict of interest and a 116 Governance and compliance | AkzoNobel Report 2014 declaration that the relevant best practice provisions of the Supervisory Board advises the Board of Management and in the future, the requirements of the Act on Management Code have been complied with. In 2014, no transactions Executive Committee, while taking into account the interests and Supervision as well as provision III 3.1 of the Code will were reported under which a member of the Board of of the AkzoNobel group and the company’s stakeholders. continue to be taken into account. Management or Executive Committee had a conflict of Major investments, acquisitions and functional initiatives are interest that was of material significance to the company. subject to Supervisory Board approval. Rules of Procedure of the Supervisory Board The Supervisory Board is governed by its Rules of Remuneration Composition ­Procedure, which are available on the company’s corporate In line with the remuneration policy adopted by the AGM, the A list of current Supervisory Board members, including their website. The Rules of Procedure include the profile and remuneration of the members of the Board of Management biographies, can be found in the Leadership section. The the Charters of the Committees and sets out the tasks and is determined by the Supervisory Board on the advice of Supervisory Board is constituted in a balanced manner to responsibilities of the Supervisory Board. its Remuneration Committee. The Supervisory Board also reflect the nature and variety of the company’s businesses, decides on the remuneration of the other members of the their international spread and expertise in fields such The Chairman of the Supervisory Board determines the Executive Committee on the proposal of the CEO. The as finance, economic, societal, environmental and legal agenda, chairs meetings and the AGM, monitors the proper composition of the remuneration of Board of Management aspects of business, government and public administration. functioning of the Supervisory Board and its committees, members, and the remuneration policy itself, are described Consequently, the current members have a diverse and arranges for the adequate provision of information to its in the Remuneration report and the Consolidated financial appropriate mix of knowledge and e ­ xperience of the markets members and acts on behalf of the Supervisory Board as the statements (see Note 22). The service contracts of the in which AkzoNobel operates, as well as insights from different main contact for the Board of Management and Executive members of the Board of Management do not contain markets and non-operational areas. Committee. He also initiates the evaluation of the f­unctioning change of control provisions and are compliant with the of the Supervisory Board, its committees, its individual Code. The main elements of the service contracts of According to the Act on Management and Supervision, a members and the functioning of the Board of Management. Board of Management members are available on our supervisory board of a large Dutch public company has a corporate website. balanced composition if it consists of at least 30 percent Meetings of the Supervisory Board require a quorum of female and at least 30 percent male members. The current at least half of its members to be present in order to pass gender balance of the Supervisory Board does not meet resolutions. Resolutions can also be passed in writing if Supervisory Board this depiction of a balanced composition, because two the written resolution is submitted to all Supervisory Board of its seven members are female. The Supervisory Board members in advance, with sufficient time for them to review General has a preference for a better gender balance. However, and assess the implications, nature and content. ­Resolutions This section provides an overview of the procedural remit, in ­compliance with provision III.3.1 of the Code, the of the Supervisory Board must be adopted by absolute diverse nature and governance of the Supervisory Board Supervisory Board composition reflects both society at majority of the votes cast. The Chairman, or in his absence of AkzoNobel. For an understanding of the activities of the large and the markets in which the company operates – by the Deputy Chairman, shall cast the deciding vote in the Supervisory Board over the past year, please refer to the ensuring that at least one-third of the members meet the event of a tie. Chairman’s Statement and the Supervisory Board Report. diversity criteria of gender (female) and/or nationality (outside The responsibility of the Supervisory Board is to supervise of the European Union). AkzoNobel acknowledges that Appointment the policies adopted by the Board of Management and the gender is only one part of diversity and Supervisory Board Members of the Supervisory Board are nominated, Executive Committee and to oversee the general conduct members will continue to be selected on the basis of their appointed and dismissed in accordance with procedures of the business of the company. In practice, this means wide-ranging experience, backgrounds, skills, knowledge identical to those outlined for the members of the Board supervising the achievement of the company’s operational and insight. Our current Supervisory Board represents six of Management. As a general rule, based on a rotation and financial objectives, the corporate strategy, the design ­nationalities, all of whom bring with them experience from schedule (available on our corporate website), a S ­ upervisory and effectiveness of the internal risk management and a diverse range of international business, professional and Board member’s tenure is four years. Since September control systems, the main financial parameters, compliance non-profit organization backgrounds. When nominating 2014 and in accordance with the Code, all members are with applicable laws and regulations and risk factors. The and selecting new candidates for the Supervisory Board eligible for re-election only twice, each time for a period AkzoNobel Report 2014 | Governance and compliance 117 not exceeding four years, leading to a maximum possible • No Supervisory Board member has had important Committees term of 12 years for any ­Supervisory Board member. In business relationships with the company in the year prior 2014, one appointment and two re-­appointments to the to their last appointment The Supervisory Board has established three committees: Supervisory Board were proposed to the AGM. For 2015, • There are no significant shareholding ties (amounting to the Audit Committee, the Nomination Committee and the one re-appointment is currently scheduled to be proposed more than 10 percent of the share capital of the company) Remuneration Committee. This section explains aspects to the AGM. between Supervisory Board members and the company of the governance and roles and responsibilities of the committees. Information on the work, composition of and Induction and training Conflict of interest attendance at the committees during the year is set out in Following appointment to the Supervisory Board, members The Articles of Association and the Rules of Procedure the Report of the Supervisory Board. receive a comprehensive induction tailored to their individual include detailed provisions on how to deal with potential needs. This includes extensive briefings about all major conflicts of interest between members of the Supervisory Each committee has a charter describing its role and business and functional aspects of the company, and its Board and the company. A member of the Supervisory responsibilities, as well as the manner in which it discharges corporate governance and compliance statements as well Board shall not participate in the discussions and decisionits duties and reports to the full Supervisory Board. These as meetings with the CEO, the CFO and all other Executive making on a subject or transaction in relation to which he/ charters are included in the Supervisory Board Rules of Committee members. This enables them to build up an she has a conflict of interest with the company. Decisions Procedure, published on the company’s corporate website. understanding of AkzoNobel’s businesses and strategy, and to enter into transactions under which Supervisory Board The committees report on their deliberations and findings the key risks and issues the company faces. Throughout members have conflicts of interest that are of material to the full Supervisory Board. The committee members’ the year, the Chairman of the ­Supervisory Board ensures significance to the company, and to the relevant Super­visory attendances in 2014 are shown in the Report of the that regular updates on AkzoNobel’s ­businesses, legal Board member, require the approval of the Supervisory Supervisory Board. matters, social and corporate governance, ­environmental, Board. Any such decisions will be recorded in the annual accounting, investor relations, compliance, risk management report for the relevant year, with reference to the conflict of Audit Committee and internal control matters are provided to the interests and a declaration that the relevant best practice The Audit Committee assists the Supervisory Board in Supervisory Board. provisions of the Code have been complied with. In 2014, overseeing the quality and integrity of the accounting, no transactions were reported under which a member had a ­reporting, risk management and internal control practices Independence of the Supervisory Board conflict of interest which was of material significance to of the company, as well as the company’s compliance Supervisory Board members are required to act critically and the company. with legal and regulatory requirements, the qualifications, independently of one another, the Board of Management and performance and independence of the external auditor and the Executive Committee. Each member of the Supervisory Remuneration the performance of the Internal Audit function. As a rule, Board meets the independence requirements as stated in Supervisory Board members receive a fixed annual the CEO, CFO, Corporate Director of Control, Corporate the Code provisions III.2.1 and III.2.2 and has completed an remuneration and attendance fee, which is determined Director of Internal Audit and the lead partner of the external annual independence questionnaire addressing the relevant by the AGM. More information on the remuneration of the auditor, KPMG, attend all regular meetings. After every Audit requirements for independence. To this end, the company members of the Supervisory Board can be found in Note 22 Committee meeting, members hold a separate meeting takes steps to verify that: of the Consolidated financial statements. with only the internal auditor present, and a separate • There are no cross ties between Supervisory Board meeting with only the external auditor present. In addition, members and members of the Board of Management there is one meeting with the CEO and/or CFO also in • There have been no employment relationships between attendance. Other members of management attend as Supervisory Board members and AkzoNobel during the and when requested. The General Counsel reports to the five years preceding their last appointment Audit Committee on compliance matters at every regular • No personal financial compensation has been paid, other committee meeting and provides a claim and liability report than in relation to work as a Supervisory Board member to the committee once a year. The chairman of the Audit Committee initiates the evaluation of the functioning of the 118 Governance and compliance | AkzoNobel Report 2014 Audit Committee and its individual members, without the Shareholders and the Holders of common shares in aggregate representing at least Board of Management being present. Annual General Meeting (AGM) one percent of the total issued capital may submit proposals for the AGM agenda. This is in deviation from the Act on Nomination Committee The Annual General Meeting of shareholders (AGM) reviews Corporate Governance (Frijns) that came into force on July 1, The Nomination Committee focuses on drawing up selection the annual report and decides on the adoption of the 2013. These proposals must be adequately s­ ubstantiated criteria and appointment procedures for Supervisory Board financial statements and the dividend proposal, as well as and must be submitted in writing, or electronically, to the and Board of Management members. The committee the discharge of the members of the Supervisory Board and company’s head office in Amsterdam at least 60 ­calendar assesses the size and composition of both Boards, the Board of Management. days in advance of the meeting. The draft minutes of the evaluates the functioning of the individual members, makes AGM (in Dutch) are made available on the company’s website proposals for appointments and reappointments and The AGM also approves or adopts, among others, within three months of the meeting date. The final and supervises the Board of Management on the selection the following matters: duly signed minutes are made available on the ­company’s of senior management. The committee also considers • The election of members of the Board of Management website within six months of the meeting date. nominations of Executive Committee members who are not and the Supervisory Board also a member of the Board of Management. When selecting • The remuneration of the members of the Share classes candidates for appointment to the Supervisory Board, Supervisory Board AkzoNobel has three classes of shares: common shares, account is taken of the current Supervisory Board profile to • Material changes to the remuneration policy of the cumulative preferred shares and priority shares. Common address the need for a diverse knowledge of the markets in Board of Management shares are traded on the Euronext Amsterdam stock which the company operates and the need for insight from • Other important matters such as major acquisitions exchange. Common shares are also traded over-the-counter different markets and non-operational areas. or the sale of a substantial part of the company, as on OTCQX (organized by Pink Sheets) in the US in the form required by law of American Depositary Receipts (each American Depositary Remuneration Committee • The authorization of the Board of Management to issue Receipt representing one-third of a common share). On The Remuneration Committee is responsible for making new shares December 31, 2014, a total of 246,043,094 common shares proposals to the Supervisory Board on the remuneration and 48 priority shares had been issued. By December policy for the Board of Management, for overseeing the The AGM is convened by public notice. AkzoNobel provides 31, 2014, MFS Investment Management and Causeway remuneration of its individual members and the remaining remote voting possibilities for its shareholders. The AGM Capital Management each held more than 5 percent of the members of the Executive Committee and for overseeing the agenda, the notes to the agenda and the procedure for company’s share capital. remuneration schemes for AkzoNobel executives involving attendance – including the record date and the procedure for the company’s shares. The committee conducts the periodic granting a proxy to a third party – are published in advance The priority shares are held by the Foundation Akzo Nobel. review of the performance of the members of the Board of and posted on the company’s website. The Foundation’s Board consists of members of AkzoNobel’s Management and the Executive Committee. The committee Supervisory Board who are not members of the Audit also reviews the remuneration package of the members Holding shares in the company on the record date Committee. The Meeting of Holders of Priority Shares has of the Supervisory Board and prepares proposals for ­determines the right to exercise voting rights and other the nomination rights for the appointment of members of adjustments if necessary. rights relating to the AGM. The notes to the agenda contain the Board of Management and of the Supervisory Board, as ­relevant information with respect to the proposed ­resolutions. well as the right to approve amendments to the Articles of All resolutions are made on the basis of the “one share, one Association of the company. vote” principle (assuming an equal par value for each class of shares). All resolutions are adopted by absolute majority, No cumulative preferred shares have been issued to date. unless the law or the company’s Articles of ­Association Cumulative preferred shares merely have a financing stipulate otherwise. ­function, which means that if necessary, and possible, they will be issued at or near to the prevailing quoted price for common shares. AkzoNobel Report 2014 | Governance and compliance 119 The AGM held on April 29, 2014, authorized the Board of use of its binding nomination rights for the appointment underlying reports of the quarterly figures and is given the Management for a period of 18 months after that date – of members of the Supervisory Board and of the Board of opportunity to comment and respond to this information. subject to approval from the Supervisory Board – to issue Management in such circumstances. shares in the capital of the company free from pre-emptive Auditor independence and mandatory succession rights, up to a maximum of 10 percent of the issued share Although a deviation from provision IV.1.1 of the Code, the of audit firm capital (or 20 percent in case of a merger or acquisition). At Supervisory Board and the Board of Management are of the Based on auditor independence requirements, the lead the same meeting, the Board of Management was given a opinion that these provisions will enhance the continuity of auditor in charge of the AkzoNobel account is changed every mandate to acquire up to a maximum of 10 percent of the the company’s management and policies. seven years. KPMG’s current lead partner, Mr. Van Leeuwen, issued share capital of the company. took over in April 2014 from Mr. Weusten, who had held this In the event of a hostile takeover bid or other action which position since July 2007. Anti-takeover provisions and control the Board of Management and Supervisory Board consider According to provision IV.3.11 of the Code, the company is to be adverse to the company’s interests, the two Boards Pursuant to the Dutch Audit Profession Act (Wet op het required to provide an overview of its actual or potential antireserve the right to use all available powers (including the accountantsberoep), the audit firm of a so-called public takeover measures, and to indicate in what circumstances it right to invoke a response time in accordance with provisions interest entity (such as a listed company) will have to be is expected that they may be used. The priority shares may IV.4.4 and II.1.9 of the Code), while taking into account the replaced if the audit firm performed the statutory audits of be considered to constitute a form of anti-takeover measure. relevant interests of the company and its affiliate enterprise the company for a period of eight consecutive years, at the In relation to the right of the Meeting of Holders of Priority and stakeholders. latest in 2016. Pursuant to this Act, the mandate of KPMG Shares to make binding nominations for appointments to will end following the reporting on the financial year 2015. the Board of Management and the Supervisory Board, the Foundation Akzo Nobel has confirmed that it intends Auditors The appointment of the current auditor (KPMG) expires upon to make use of such rights in exceptional circumstances finalization of the audit of the 2015 financial statements. The only. These circumstances include situations where, in the The external auditor is appointed by the AGM on proposal of AGM (held on April 29, 2014) appointed PwC in respect of opinion of the Board of the Foundation, the continuity of the Supervisory Board. The current appointment of KPMG the audits of the financial statements as of 2016. the company’s management and policies is at stake. This is reviewed every four years by the Audit Committee. The may be the case if a public bid for the common shares of Audit Committee advises the Supervisory Board, which Non-audit services the company has been announced, or has been made, or communicates the results of this assessment to the AGM. One area of particular focus in corporate governance is the the justified expectation exists that such a bid will be made The Audit Committee and the Board of Management report independence of the auditors. The Audit Committee has without any agreement having been reached in relation to their dealings with the external auditor to the Supervisory been delegated direct responsibility for the compensation such a bid with the company. The same shall apply if one Board annually and discuss the auditor’s independence. and monitoring of the auditors and the services they provide shareholder, or more shareholders acting in a concerted way, During 2014, in addition to these discussions and the to the company. Pursuant to the Audit Profession Act, the hold a substantial percentage of the issued common shares annual report on dealings with the external auditor, the Audit auditors are prohibited from providing the company with of the company without making an offer. Or if, in the opinion Committee received updates on national and international services in the Netherlands other than “audit services aimed of the Board of the Foundation Akzo Nobel, the exercise of legislative and policy developments on to provide reliability concerning the information supplied the voting rights by one shareholder or more shareholders, auditor independence. by the audited client for the benefit of external users of this acting in a concerted way, is materially in conflict with the information and also for the benefit of the Supervisory Board, interests of the company. In such cases, the Supervisory The lead auditor is present at the AGM and may be as referred to in the reports mentioned.” The company Board and the Board of Management, in accordance with questioned with regard to his statement on the fairness of has taken the position that no additional services may be their statutory responsibility, will evaluate all available options the financial statements. The external auditor attends all ­provided by the external auditor and its global network with a view to serving the best interests of the company, meetings of the Audit Committee, as well as the meeting that do not meet these requirements, unless local statutory its shareholders and other stakeholders. The Board of the of the Supervisory Board at which the financial statements requirements so dictate. In order to anchor this in our Foundation Akzo Nobel has reserved the right to make are approved. He receives the financial information and procedures, the Supervisory Board adopted the AkzoNobel 120 Governance and compliance | AkzoNobel Report 2014 The AkzoNobel internal control framework Rules on External Auditor Independence and Selection and Internal Audit the related AkzoNobel Guidelines on Auditor Independence. All these documents are available on the company’s website. The AkzoNobel internal control framework provides The Internal Audit function is mandated to provide reasonable assurance in achieving business goals, including ­AkzoNobel Management and the Audit Committee with strategic, operational and reporting goals, as well as those in­dependent, objective assurance on the adequacy of the Risk management and covering compliance. Internal control is not only about policies design and operating effectiveness of the internal control internal control and procedures, but also relates strongly to people, culture and behaviors. framework in place. The Corporate Director of Internal Audit reports to the CEO and has direct access to the Internal control and risk management systems are in place. Audit Committee. The function performs its mandate based Our risk management system is explained in more detail in on an independently developed risk-based audit plan the Strategic performance section. which is approved by the Audit Committee. It reports a summary of the audit findings bi-annually to the Executive Monitoring activities We have strict procedures for internal and disclosure ­Committee and the Audit Committee, which culminates in Information and communication controls and auditor independence. The Disclosure an annual assessment of the quality and effectiveness of ­Committee ­monitors the disclosure procedures established Control activities the com­pany’s internal control systems. More information is by the company and advises the Executive Committee to available under Audit Committee earlier in this section. ensure adequate and timely disclosure of material financial and non-financial information. Responding to risk An Internal Control committee is responsible for maintaining the company’s internal control framework. An area of Setting objectives continued focus in 2014 was the control standards for our key IT systems and making more use of automated Control environment controls in these systems. Designing and implementing global s­ tandardized processes, partially through outsourced, partially through captive shared service centers, has been another important focus area to support the company’s strategy of standardization and functional excellence. We also have a company-wide compliance monitoring tool in place to discuss and monitor progress with respect to compliance-related issues. More detail on the so-called non-financial letter of representation process is available in the Compliance and integrity management chapter. Reference is made to the Statement of the Board of Management in the Leadership section for the statements relating to internal risk management and control systems. AkzoNobel Report 2014 | Governance and compliance 121 Compliance and integrity management Integrity is one of AkzoNobel’s core AkzoNobel’s Compliance framework, based on our Code principles. The company recognizes that a of Conduct, is supported by implementation processes, monitoring and control procedures, and is assessed by strong compliance framework is one of the the Supervisory Board. In everything we do, we aim for the highest standards of performance and behavior. AkzoNobel essential foundations of good corporate is committed to conducting business all around the world governance and social responsibility. with integrity, fairness and honesty. Compliance framework Code of Conduct/ Directives framework Anti-bribery Export control Competition law Privacy Human rights and corruption and sanctions Share dealing Sustainability and HSE Information security Treatment of employees Fraud Training & SpeakUp! 122 Governance and compliance | AkzoNobel Report 2014 AkzoNobel Code of Conduct Code of Conduct for Code of Conduct communication, The Code of Conduct serves as the common reference joint ventures, acquisitions and awareness and training document which sets out our fundamental principles and our supply chain We appreciate that raising awareness through effective rules for doing business. It applies equally to our corporate communication and training is pivotal to strengthening actions and the behavior of individual employees, regardless We make sure that all employees – including those at joint our Compliance framework, and assists us in protecting of the market segment, function or country in which we ventures we operate and at newly-acquired companies the company and our employees against economic and operate. Available in 27 languages, the Code of Conduct – are aware of, and comply with, laws and regulations reputational harm. Communication on the Code of Conduct is distributed in paper form and is widely available online. that are relevant to their specific role, as well as the Code starts for new employees from the moment they join The Code of Conduct, together with directives, rules, of Conduct, directives, rules, manuals, guidelines and AkzoNobel and may include online and classroom training. manuals, guidelines and procedures, are part of the procedures that form the Directives framework. In entities we company’s Directives framework, which sets out mandatory do not control, we encourage consistent application of the Around 90 percent of employees with online access have internal rules for employees. values and principles reflected in our Code of Conduct when completed the Code of Conduct training module. Each year, doing business. our online annual performance appraisal system requires AkzoNobel is subject to local, regional and international employees to sign off on their awareness of the Code of laws and regulations, regulatory controls and customs and AkzoNobel expects employees of newly-acquired companies Conduct. The compliance training curriculum also offers practices in the countries in which we do business. Our to adhere to the Code of Conduct in their daily actions and specialized training to improve critical competencies and legal and compliance experts are monitoring and adapting to live up to our core principles, values and rules for doing skills to designated groups of employees on topics such as to significant and rapid changes in a wide range of legal and business. They receive training, which enables them to fully competition law, anti-bribery, export control, privacy, fraud compliance areas, to ensure that the Compliance framework acquaint themselves with the Compliance framework. awareness, anti-harassment and trade secrets. remains suited for purpose and is properly applied. We are dedicated to minimizing our compliance risk, as identified We want to do business with suppliers who share our values in the Enterprise Risk Management process. Reference and principles. Our Vendor Policy, designed to help ensure is made to the Risk management chapter in the Strategic a sustainable supply chain, specifically states our desire to performance section of this Report 2014. do business with partners who endorse our ethical, social and environmental standards, as formulated in the Code of Conduct. Vendors confirm that they conduct their business in accordance with core compliance principles through the AkzoNobel Vendor Policy Declaration. In 2014, we continued with Together for Sustainability, an initiative designed to develop and implement a global audit program to assess and improve sustainability practices within the supply chains of the chemical industry. See Note 7 of the Sustainability statements for more details. AkzoNobel Report 2014 | Governance and compliance 123 Code of Conduct Compliance governance Compliance and integrity reporting complaints procedure (SpeakUp!) The Compliance Committee assists the Executive Committee and monitoring We value an open dialog with our employees worldwide on in its ultimate responsibility to report to the Audit Committee AkzoNobel has developed a set of corporate reporting our core principle of integrity. Our employees are encouraged of the Supervisory Board. The Compliance Committee tools to manage compliance and integrity at the company. to report potential issues regarding the Code of Conduct to consists of the General Counsel (chair), Corporate Secretary, The compliance department manages these tools/ either their manager, the next line manager or HR manager, Directors of Internal Audit, Control, Compliance, Human reports and reports on outcome and effectiveness to the the relevant business unit or function compliance committee, Resources and Sustainability. The compliance department, Compliance Committee. the compliance department, or the Compliance Committee. in close collaboration with the Compliance Committee, In addition, a global reporting helpline is available to our provides an adequate Compliance framework and ensures Competition law compliance declaration employees 24 hours a day to report confidentially – and, its enforcement via various methods. These methods include Employees who meet defined criteria, such as contact if desired, anonymously – potential breaches of the Code the application of monitoring and reporting tools, developing with customers or suppliers, confirm their compliance with of Conduct. the compliance training curriculum and managing the competition law as articulated in our Competition Law corporate complaints procedure as a whole, including root Compliance Manual through an annual declaration. Any These reporting mechanisms are part of the complaints cause analyses. The compliance department is directed possible concerns are reported to the General Counsel and procedure and are described in our SpeakUp! manual. by the Director of Compliance, who reports directly to the appropriate actions are taken. In 2014, more than 12,000 All alleged breaches of the Code of Conduct that are brought General Counsel. employees signed this declaration. to the attention of the compliance department are investigated. Business unit and function management are responsible Non-financial letter of representation (NFLoR) and accountable for raising awareness and compliance At the end of the year, the Managing Director/Corporate The system is also available for temporary employees or third within their respective businesses and functions. We have Director of each business and function signs the NFLoR to parties with whom AkzoNobel has a business relationship appointed business and function compliance officers and confirm compliance with the Code of Conduct and other (such as customers, suppliers and agents) and members of have set up compliance committees in the businesses. corporate non-financial requirements. The NFLoR process is the general public. Together with the compliance department, the compliance a comprehensive certification by various levels of AkzoNobel officer assesses the main compliance risks, improves and management that our business has been conducted in In 2014, a total of 170 alleged breaches of the Code of monitors compliance and its effectiveness and ensures compliance with external and internal rules. Exceptions Conduct were reported, both through SpeakUp! and other training of the relevant employees. The compliance officers are noted and explained and action plans are developed channels. Of the 170 matters, 67 were substantiated, with also ensure that alleged breaches of the Code of Conduct to address weaknesses. The NFLoR process starts deep 22 still in progress. Eleven were managed by the Compliance are investigated and findings and lessons learned are in the organization; results are rolled up to business unit, Committee as they met defined criteria. Company-wide, 46 reported to the relevant business or function management corporate function, country and Business Area level. The employees were dismissed on grounds related to breaches team, who then take appropriate action. outcome is reviewed with the responsible member of the of the Code of Conduct. Other sanctions and remedial Executive Committee and General Counsel and the results actions in (partially) substantiated matters included: review of are reported to the Board of Management and the Audit procedures/controls (12), coaching/training (8), warnings (6), Committee. Outstanding actions are followed up in each probation (2), and other disciplinary actions (1). business and function and progressed. The outcome of the NFLoR process, in combination with the internal control self-assessment process and internal audit results, forms the basis for the Statement of the Board of Management in this Report 2014. 124 Governance and compliance | AkzoNobel Report 2014 Share Dealing Rules statement 2014 overview Business and human rights Members of the Board of Management, Executive The Code of Conduct also sets out our approach to human Committee and Supervisory Board, along with certain Training and labor rights. Our approach is based on, and confirms, designated employees, are made aware of their obligations Our training program and curriculum is a cornerstone of our support for the United Nations Universal Declaration under the AkzoNobel Share Dealing Rules. our Compliance framework. A wide range of compliance of Human Rights, the key conventions of the International training modules on various topics is available to every new Labor Organization and the OECD Guidelines for employee. In 2014, we rolled out updated competition Multinational Enterprises. We are a signatory of the United law training for designated employees. More than 10,000 Nations Global Compact and continue to integrate principles employees have completed the course. on human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption into our strategy and operations. The Executive Committee received tailored competition law and export control training. In addition, top management As a critical element of being a socially responsible also participated in live competition law and fraud training. company, our businesses and employees are required to respect the human rights of other employees and the Sensitive Country Program communities in which we operate. This is reflected in our Our Sensitive Country Program was continued in 2014. Code of Conduct, our global HSE standards and our Vendor Under this program, a small team – consisting of the General Policy for suppliers. We pay particular attention to the Counsel, another member of the Executive Committee and company’s presence and operations in high growth markets, the Director of Compliance – meets regularly during the as compliance frameworks risk being less advanced in these year. They review the extent to which the company does regions, compared with mature economies. business in countries recognized by monitoring groups (such as Transparency International and Freedom House) to For more information on stakeholder engagement and our have significant issues with regards to sanctions and export safety, environmental and supplier processes, please refer to controls, corruption, human rights, political stability and the Sustainability statements section. safety and security. Based on this analysis, we take action regarding trade with parties in specific countries, including enhanced internal review and the imposition of additional restrictions, such as bans. The Sensitive Country Program supplements our Export Control Program, which contains procedures and training that provide up-to-date guidance for employees on regulatory obligations and enforcement activities, especially those coming from the US and the EU, and including rules with extra-territorial effect. Our established global network of business-based export control officers plays a key role in ensuring export control/sanction compliance. AkzoNobel Report 2014 | Governance and compliance 125 Integrity management 2011 2012 2013 2014 Code of Conduct reporting Code of Conduct number of alleged breaches reported 245 295 151 170 Code of Conduct breakdown of alleged breaches Health and safety 18 42 8 15 Business integrity 112 152 82 90 Treatment of employees 112 101 61 65 Other 3 0 0 0 Code of Conduct investigation Code of Conduct alleged breaches investigated (in %) 100 100 100 100 Code of Conduct alleged breaches handled by the Compliance Committee 24 24 9 11 (in numbers) Code of Conduct alleged breaches handled by the relevant businesses 221 271 142 159 (in numbers) Substantiated Code of Conduct breaches (within year) 149 163 57 67 Substantiated Code of Conduct breaches (total, including breaches substantiated 149 178 64 –1 in a later year) Number of dismissals for Code of Conduct breaches within year 99 131 43 46 Dismissals for Code of Conduct breaches (total, including employees dismissed 108 139 48 –1 in a later year) Compliance monitoring Competition Law Compliance Declaration 14,400 15,900 12,700 12,184 (number of confirmations) Non-financial letter of representation 100 100 100 100 (% of operational managers) Code of Conduct training Code of Conduct trained (% online employees) 95 96 95 NA2 1  y definition these numbers are not yet known. B 2 We are transitioning to a new Learning Management System platform that will make training tracking more efficient. Due to implementation in 2014, no accurate Code of Conduct training statistics are available this year. 126 Governance and compliance | AkzoNobel Report 2014 Directives portal The Directives portal The Directives portal was introduced in 2014 to give employees a one-stop website for all of the directives, rules, manuals, guidelines and procedures that make up AkzoNobel’s Directives framework. These documents, most Code of Conduct of which are mandatory, drive governance, consistency and functional excellence throughout the company. The Core principles Values Directives framework builds on AkzoNobel’s core principles, • Safety • Customer focused values, Code of Conduct and business policies and is • Integrity • Deliver on commitments hierarchically structured by function, by business and by • Sustainability • Passion for excellence geography. The company relies on employees to be guided in their daily behavior by the Directives framework and • Winning together managers to actively drive and monitor compliance with it. Privacy rules This year, we established a new global Protection of personal data directive and two sets of comprehensive rules: Privacy Directives and rules rules for employee data, and Privacy rules for customer, supplier and business partner data. The purpose is to ensure Manuals and guidelines that personal data of employees, customers, suppliers and business partners is protected. The privacy rules must be followed when processing personal data by, or on behalf Procedures of, AkzoNobel. They have been approved by the EU Data Protection Authorities as “binding corporate rules” which means that they effectively allow for the international data transfer of personal data to non-EU countries. The general transition term for implementation of the privacy rules is two years. Implementation requires that we, for example, perform Privacy Impact Assessments on IT systems and processes, further develop a training and awareness program for all relevant groups and establish a governance structure around privacy with a Corporate privacy officer and a network of privacy officers throughout the businesses. AkzoNobel Report 2014 | Governance and compliance 127 Remuneration report This report describes our The remuneration and the individual contracts of the The total remuneration package of the members of the remuneration policy and the members of the Board of Management are determined by the Supervisory Board, within the framework of the Board of Management consists of: • Base salary remuneration paid to members remuneration policy. Our remuneration policy, including • Performance-related short-term incentive (STI), all structures and policies related to the remuneration and with share-matching opportunity of the Board of Management employment contracts of the members of the Board of • Performance-related long-term incentive (LTI) in 2014. Management, is in line with the Dutch Corporate Governance in the form of shares Code (the Code). • Post-contract benefits • Other benefits The first part of this report describes the remuneration policy as it has been adopted over time, while the second part The various elements of the remuneration package are describes the implementation of the policy in 2014. set out in more detail below. The remuneration policy was first adopted by the Annual Base salary General Meeting of shareholders (AGM) in 2005 and has The base salary is determined by the Supervisory Board. since been amended several times, most recently in 2013. The performance share plan for the Board of Management Short-term incentive (annual bonus) was approved by the AGM in 2004. It has also been The target STI is 100 percent of the base salary for the CEO amended several times, in accordance with article 2:135 of and 65 percent of the base salary for any other member. the Dutch Civil Code, most recently in 2013. The shareThe STI is linked to financial targets (70 percent), as well as matching plan for the Board of Management was approved the individual and qualitative targets of the members of the by the AGM in 2011. Board of Management (30 percent). The specific targets are determined annually by the Supervisory Board. In respect of the financial targets, the Supervisory Board can choose Remuneration policy two to three financial metrics and determine their relative weighting from the following list: Our remuneration policy has the objective of providing • EBITDA • EBIT remuneration in a form which will attract, retain and motivate • Operating income (OPI) • Net income members of the Board of Management as top managers (to shareholders) of a major international company, while protecting and • Operating cash flow (OCF) • Return on investment (ROI) promoting the company’s objectives, thus being aligned with the executive remuneration policy of the overall company. These metrics are as used and/or defined in the company’s The aim is to provide remuneration at the median level of the annual report from time to time (subject to minor external market. adjustments if required in order to provide a better indicator of management’s performance). 128 Governance and compliance | AkzoNobel Report 2014 The Supervisory Board sets the performance ranges each Shareholding requirements and share-matching Other benefits year, i.e. the values below which no payout will be made (the The CEO is required to build up over a five-year period from the Other benefits – such as a company car and allowances – threshold), the “at target” value and the maximum at which date of appointment at least three times his gross base salary are determined by the Supervisory Board. the payout will be capped, it being noted that the STI awards in AkzoNobel shares and hold these shares for the duration of will not exceed 150 percent of the base salary for the CEO his tenure as a member of the Board of Management. For any Claw back and value adjustment and 100 percent of the base salary for any other member of other member of the Board of Management, it is at least one It is noted that the variable pay components are subject to the Board of Management. time their gross base salary. the claw back and value adjustment provisions of the Dutch civil code. Long-term incentive Board members are expected, for these purposes, to use both The LTI consists of performance-related shares. Under the their long-term incentive and short-term incentive in the manner Loans performance share plan, shares are conditionally granted to set out below. The company does not grant personal loans to its the members of the Board of Management. Vesting of these Board members. shares is conditional on the achievement of performance Board members who have not yet achieved their minimum targets during a three-year period. Achievement of the shareholding are required to invest one-third of the short-term performance targets is determined by the Supervisory incentive they receive (net after tax and other deductions) in Board in the first quarter of the year following the threeAkzoNobel shares. As further encouragement to build up the year performance period. The number of vested shares is minimum holding requirement, Board members who invest adjusted for dividends paid over the three-year performance up to a second third of their short-term incentive in shares will period. The retention period for the shares expires five years have such shares matched by the company, one on one, after after the conditional grant. three years from the date of purchase of the shares, on the condition that the Board member still holds these shares and The long-term incentive plan is subject to three performance showed a sustained performance during the three-year period, criteria; 70 percent of the conditional grant of shares is as determined by the Supervisory Board. split equally between AkzoNobel’s relative total shareholder return (TSR) performance compared with the companies Board members who continue to invest their short-term in a defined peer group, as well as the development in ROI incentives in whole, or in part, in shares after the minimum during the performance period. The TSR peer group and the holding requirement has been reached, will have the vesting schemes are determined by the Supervisory Board. opportunity to have such shares matched subject to the The remaining 30 percent of the conditional share grant is same conditions. However, such shares will be matched with linked to AkzoNobel’s relative sustainability performance, one share to every two shares thus acquired and no shares which is measured as the company’s average position in will be matched to the extent that shares were purchased with the RobecoSAM ranking during the three-year performance more than two-thirds of the Board member’s net annual shortperiod. In each case, the maximum at vesting is 150 percent term incentive. of the relevant part of the conditional grant. Post-contract benefits These performance metrics apply as of 2013. In respect of Members of the Board of Management receive a contribution grants made prior to 2013, half of the conditional share grant towards pension and similar retirement benefits, as is linked to AkzoNobel’s relative sustainability performance determined by the Supervisory Board. and half to the company’s relative TSR performance. AkzoNobel Report 2014 | Governance and compliance 129 Implementation of the We aim to maintain overall remuneration levels that are at For communication purposes, the table Compensation remuneration policy in 2014 the median level of the external market. For benchmarking purposes, a peer group has been defined by the Supervisory Board of Management 2014 (below) presents an overview of the remuneration of the members of the Board of The Supervisory Board ensures that the remuneration policy, Board. The peer group currently consists of the following Management who were in office in 2014. See note 22 of and its implementation, are aligned with the company’s companies: the Consolidated financial statements for more details. The objectives. Both the policy itself, and the checks and • Royal Ahold • Royal KPN implementation of the remuneration policy in 2015 will be a balances applied in its execution, are designed to avoid • Arkema • Lafarge separate agenda item at the 2015 AGM. incidents where members of the Board of Management – • Clariant • Royal Philips and senior executives for whom similar incentive plans apply • Royal DSM • Randstad Base salary – act in their own interest, take risks that are not in line with • Heineken • Reckitt Benckiser The base salary of the Chief Executive Officer increased by our strategy and risk appetite, or where remuneration levels • Henkel • Solvay 1.7 percent in 2014. The base salary of the Chief Financial cannot be justified in any given circumstance. Officer, Mr. Nichols, remained unchanged. The Remuneration Committee consults professional To ensure that remuneration is linked to performance, a independent remuneration experts to ensure an appropriate Short-term incentive (annual bonus) significant proportion of the remuneration package is variable comparison. It further reviews the impact on pay differentials The objectives of the short-term incentive in 2014 were and dependent on the short and long-term performance of within the company, which is taken into account by to reward performance on ROI, OPI and OCF, to measure the individual Board member and the company. Performance the Supervisory Board when the overall remuneration ­individual and collective performance and to encourage targets must be realistic and sufficiently stretching and is determined. When other benefits are granted, the progress in the achievement of long-term strategic – particularly with regard to the variable remuneration Supervisory Board ensures that these are in line with ­objectives. On the outcome of the short-term incentive components – the Supervisory Board ensures that the market norms. elements (ROI, OPI, OCF and personal targets), the relationship between the chosen performance criteria and Supervisory Board applies a reasonableness test in which the strategic objectives applied, as well as the relationship between remuneration and performance, are properly reviewed and accounted for, both ex-ante and ex-post. Compensation Board of Management 2014 In accordance with the requirements of the Code, the Ton Büchner Keith Nichols 1 Maëlys Castella 2 Remuneration Committee, before setting the targets to be in € Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer Chief Financial Officer proposed for adoption by the Supervisory Board, has carried Base salary 834,000 308,000 176,800 out scenario analyses of the possible financial outcomes Short-term incentive 783,000 308,000 106,100 of meeting target levels, as well as maximum performance Share awards 3 1,233,100 -766,000 – levels, and how they may affect the level and structure of the Post-contract benefits remuneration of the members of the Board of Management. Other post-contract benefits 4 325,000 147,900 28,800 Other emoluments 5 8,500 278,700 2,600 Other compensation 6 36,800 2,800 Total remuneration 3,183,600 313,400 317,100 1 U  ntil June 30, 2014. 2 Since September 15, 2014. 3 Costs relating to share awards (performance-related share plan and share-matching plan) are non-cash and relate to the expenses following IFRS2. For Mr. Nichols a reversal of costs is reported in connection with the forfeiture of his LTI entitlements due to his voluntary departure. 4 Other post-contract benefits refers to payments intended for building up retirement benefits other than those included in Post-contract benefits. 5 Other emoluments refers to social security cost. For Mr. Nichols this refers to the employer’s contribution in the UK. 6 Other compensation refers to compensation for living expenses (Mr. Nichols) and a company car (Mrs. Castella). 130 Governance and compliance | AkzoNobel Report 2014 the actual ambition level of the performance targets is Long-term incentives Average position in RobecoSAM ranking during assessed critically in light of the assumptions made at the The objectives of our long-term incentive plan are to performance period beginning of the year. It also includes an assessment of the encourage long-term sustainable economic and shareholder Vesting (as % of half of Rank conditional grant) progress made with the strategic objectives under prevailing value creation – both absolute and relative to competitors 1 150 market conditions. – and to align Board of Management interests with those 2 125 of shareholders, as well as ensuring retention of the 3 100 The targets ROI, OPI and OCF have been determined by the members of the Board of Management. Performance-related 4–6 75 Supervisory Board. Qualitative targets are set and assessed shares are considered to provide a strong alignment with 7 – 10 50 by the Supervisory Board in the context of the medium-term shareholders’ interests. objectives of the company. AkzoNobel will not disclose all 11 – 15 25 the targets, as they are considered commercially sensitive Stock option plan Below 15 0 information. However, the targets for 2014 included goals Stock options were conditionally granted for the last time in set in relation to delivering on the company’s communicated 2007 and vested for the last time in 2010. As the total option AkzoNobel was placed first in 2012, 2013 and 2014 in the performance improvement. term was seven years, the last stock options that vested relevant RobecoSAM ranking. As a result, AkzoNobel’s under the stock option plan could be exercised until the sustainability performance during the period 2012 to 2014 OPI and OCF are based on the company’s financial results expiration date in 2014. No stock options were outstanding resulted in a vesting of 150 percent for this part of the longin constant currencies. ROI is calculated by ­determining the at year-end 2014. term incentive. ratio of operating income over invested capital using the numbers as reported. OPI was calculated as the number Performance-related share plan For the 2012 award, the remaining 50 percent was linked reported for IFRS purposes, in constant currencies. OCF In line with the remuneration policy, as applicable in previous to AkzoNobel’s relative total shareholder return (TSR) was calculated as EBITDA minus the change in operating grant years, vesting of 50 percent of the shares conditionally per­formance compared with the companies in a defined working capital and capital expenditures in constant granted in 2012 under the performance-related share plan peer group. currencies. In 2014, upon a minor correction in accordance (in respect of which the performance period ended on with the policy, the performance against the targets set for December 31, 2014) was linked to AkzoNobel’s relative Independent external specialists conduct an analysis to ROI, OPI and OCF was as follows: sustainability performance by taking AkzoNobel’s average calculate the number of shares that will vest according to the position in the RobecoSAM ranking. TSR ranking. In order to adjust for changes in exchange rates, 2014 performance on financial measures all local currencies are converted into euros. The relative TSR For all conditional grants made in 2012, the relevant vesting performance is compared with a peer group as determined by Measure Payout as % of target scheme has been determined by the Supervisory Board the Supervisory Board. ROI 81 as follows: OPI 83 The peer group currently consists of the following companies: OCF 84 • Arkema • PPG Industries • DuPont • RPM Industrial It is important to note that the external fraud case in Chicago • Kansai Paint • Sherwin-Williams (US) significantly impacted all three financial performance • Kemira OYJ • Solvay metrics. (See Risk management chapter for • Nippon Paint • Valspar Corporation more information). AkzoNobel Report 2014 | Governance and compliance 131 This peer group is reviewed on a regular basis to ensure the variable remuneration and the company’s strategic In accordance with the company’s Articles of Association, that the companies in the group remain appropriate peers. ambitions, decided not to make any correction in respect of the Code and the rules of the performance-related share Occasionally, changes need to be made, particularly if the definitive award. plan, the number of shares to be conditionally granted to one of the companies in the peer group is taken over. The members of the Board of Management is determined by Supervisory Board will see to it that, to the extent reasonably The number of performance-related shares conditionally the Supervisory Board, within the limits of the remuneration possible, a replacement has no impact on the company’s granted under the 2014 plan amounted to 22,300 for the policy and the maximum number of shares as adopted relative TSR ranking. CEO. The CFO left the company and was not awarded any and approved, respectively, by the AGM. The Supervisory shares. In addition, the newly appointed CFO did not receive Board has decided that where, in the event of a takeover, The following vesting scheme has been applied in respect of an award of shares in 2014. the payout under the performance share plan is between the conditional grants made in 2012: 100 percent and 150 percent, it will, at its discretion – taking As of 2013, a different vesting scheme applies in respect of into account the performance of the company prior to TSR vesting scheme for the conditional grants conditional share grants. The vesting scheme includes ROI the takeover bid – decide whether the projected outcome performance with a weight of 35 percent, TSR ranking with is fair and may decide to adjust the vesting upwards or Vesting (as % of half of weight of 35 percent and RobecoSAM ranking with a weight downwards within the bandwidth mentioned. This does not Rank conditional grant) of 30 percent. No further amendments have been made to affect the discretion the Supervisory Board has to correct 1 150 the sustainability and TSR schemes. The Supervisory Board the variable remuneration of the Board of Management 2 135 has set the ROI metric applied in the LTI for 2014 and to be upwards or downwards in exceptional circumstances. 3 120 achieved by the end of 2016 as follows: It is noted that a takeover would not influence the 4 100 RobecoSAM sustainability ranking of the company nor the 5 75 ROI vesting scheme of conditional grant series 2014-2016 ROI performance, therefore the Supervisory Board will, 6 50 under such circumstances, primarily take into account the Vesting (as % of 7 25 company’s TSR performance. Performance 35% of conditional grant) 8 – 11 0 ≥ 17% 150 15% 100 Claw back and value adjustment AkzoNobel’s TSR performance during the period 2012 to 13% 50 In 2014, there was no cause for a claw back or value 2014 resulted in a ninth position within the ranking of the < 13% 0 adjustment by the Supervisory Board. peer group companies. This ranking did not result in any vesting of shares for the TSR part of the share plan. A performance between the above points will be measured Based on the company’s combined sustainability and TSR on a linear scale. performance, the final vesting percentage of the 2012 conditional grant after including the dividend yield during In accordance with provision II.2.13d of the Code, the the performance period (determined to be 9.62 percent), schedule at the end of this remuneration report sets (i) equaled 82.22 percent. the number of at-target shares conditionally granted; (ii) the number of shares which have vested; (iii) the number This resulted in a total vesting of 82.22 percent of the shares of shares held by members of the Board of Management that were conditionally granted in 2012. Upon its ex-post at the end of the lock-up period; (iv) the face value at the review of the relationship between the chosen performance conditional share grant, at vesting and at the end of the criteria and the strategic objectives applied, and of the lock-up period respectively. relationship between remuneration and performance, the Supervisory Board, given the importance of the link between 132 Governance and compliance | AkzoNobel Report 2014 Shareholding requirements and share-matching Post-contract compensation See Note 22 of the Consolidated financial statements for an The table below summarizes the shares acquired by the overview of the payments made to former Board members in relevant members of the Board of Management in 2014 that The members of the Board of Management receive 2014. would, subject to the conditions of the share-matching plan, con­tributions towards post-contract benefits, which are qualify for matching by the company. See also Note 22 of defined as a percentage of income as determined by the Remuneration policy planned by the Supervisory the Consolidated financial statements. Supervisory Board. Currently, they are based on age. For Board for the next financial year and subsequent the CEO, the contributions are paid over the base salary in years Qualifying shares the current year and the short-term incentive of the ­previous No changes in the remuneration policy are currently Qualifying shares acquired year. The contributions will therefore vary depending on the ­foreseen. The Supervisory Board will continue to closely Board members in 2014 performance during the previous year and the age of the monitor whether the policy and its implementation are in line Ton Büchner 2,450 Board member. For the CFO, these contributions are paid on with the objectives of the company. The metrics applied for Maëlys Castella – base salary only. the STI in 2014 (ROI, OPI, OCF) will continue to be applied in 2015. As regards the ROI metric for the long-term incentive Shares obtained by members of the Board of Management Leaving arrangements and other special awards in 2015, the Supervisory Board has approved a more under the performance-related share plan are taken into remuneration paid during 2014 challenging performance range as stated in the table below. account for share ownership purposes (but not for matching In 2014, Mr. Nichols stepped down voluntarily from the Board purposes) as soon as they have become unconditional. This of Management. In connection with this, and to retain him to ROI performance range series 2015-2017 includes vested shares that are to be retained during the ensure a bridging period towards finding a successor, it was Threshold Target Maximum blocking period of two years after vesting. decided to award him a short-term incentive over his active Payout opportunity 50% 100% 150% employment period. All entitlements to shares under the Target 14.0% 16.5% 19.0% performance share plans were forfeited in connection with his voluntary departure. Board contracts Agreements for members of the Board of Management are concluded for a period not exceeding four years, in accordance with the Code. After the initial term, re-appointments may take place for consecutive periods of up to four years each. The notice period by the Board member is subject to a term of three months; notice by the company shall be subject to a six-month term. Members of the Board of Management normally retire in the year that they reach the legal retirement age. The contractual arrangements allow the Supervisory Board to request the CEO to resign between the age of 60 and the regular retirement age for effective succession planning within the Board. In such an exceptional situation, the CEO will be entitled to the “fixed” remuneration com­ponent until the date of retirement. AkzoNobel Report 2014 | Governance and compliance 133 Valuation 1 shares Board of Management Unconditional shares, vested Board member Conditional share grant Number of vested shares End of lock-up period (five years after Value at grant Value at vesting grant) Series Number in € Number in € Number Value in € Ton Büchner Series 2012 2014 31,900 1,191,784 26,228 1,512,055 – NA Maëlys Castella Series 2012 2014 NA – – – – – Conditional shares, not vested Board member Conditional share Vesting at min Vesting at max grant at target performance performance Series Number Value at grant in € Number Number Ton Büchner Series 2013 2015 24,200 1,203,829 – 36,300 Series 2014 2016 22,300 1,256,382 – 33,450 Matching shares 2012 (vesting 2016) 11,582 500,016 – 11,582 Matching shares 2013 (vesting 2016) 1,429 71,086 – 1,429 Matching shares 2014 (vesting 2017) 2,450 133,782 – 2,450 Maëlys Castella Series 2014 2016 NA – – – 1 Values based on the share price on January 1 of the relevant financial year (face value). 134 Governance and compliance | AkzoNobel Report 2014 AkzoNobel on the capital markets Proposed dividend of €1.45 Close dialog with the Total proposed dividend of €1.45 per share (on a par with 2013) capital markets per share We attach great value to maintaining an open dialog with The Board of Management proposes a total dividend of Settlement of €825 million bond the financial community in order to promote transparency. €1.45 per common share. AkzoNobel’s shares will be trading which matured on January 31, Management gave presentations at a number of industry conferences during the year, as well as holding meetings ex-dividend as of April 24, 2015. In compliance with the listing requirements of Euronext Amsterdam, the record date 2014; and €500 million bond with investors and analysts. In March, a capital markets will be April 27, 2015. The dividend as proposed to the 2015 day was held to introduce the Business Area Executive Annual General Meeting of shareholders will be payable as issued on November 7, 2014 Committee members, who presented the strategies of their of May 19, 2015. The dividend paid over the last five years is respective businesses. shown in the graph below.  Dividend paid in € per share Dividend policy Interim dividend Final dividend AkzoNobel’s dividend policy is to pay a stable to rising dividend each year. Cash dividend is default, stock dividend 1.12 1.12 1.12 1.08 is optional. 1.05 0.30 0.32 0.33 0.33 0.33 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 AkzoNobel Report 2014 | Governance and compliance 135 Share price performance 2014 Analyst recommendations Listings Our share price increased 3 percent in 2014, At year-end 2014, AkzoNobel was covered by 31 equity AkzoNobel’s common shares are listed on the stock underperforming both the DJ Stoxx Chemicals and AEX brokers and the following analyst recommendations were exchange of Euronext Amsterdam. The company is included indices. The share price performance relative to these indices applicable (see diagram): in the AEX Index, which consists of the top 25 listed for a one-year period is shown in the following graph. companies in the Netherlands, ranked on the basis of their turnover in the stock market and free float. The AkzoNobel Analyst recommendations in % weight in the AEX index was 3.81 percent at year-end 2014. Share price performance 2014 In 2014, 171 million AkzoNobel shares were traded on AkzoNobel share price in € Euronext Amsterdam (2013: 206 million). AkzoNobel has a C AkzoNobel sponsored level 1 ADR program and ADRs can be traded A Buy 52 AEX index on the international OTCQX platform in the US. The 3:1 ratio DJ Stoxx Chemicals index B Hold DJ Stoxx 26 A (ADR:ORD) became effective from January 2, 2012 onwards. C Sell 22 70 AEX B See the table below for stock codes and ticker symbols: Akzo 60 Euronext ticker symbol AKZA ISIN common share NL0000009132 50 OTC ticker symbol AKZOY ISIN ADR US0101993055 40 Sedol code 5458314 31 Dec 13 Jan 14 Feb 14 Mar 14 Apr 14 May 14 Jun 14 Jul 14 Aug 14 Sept 14 Oct 14 Nov 14 31 Dec 14 Key share data 2012 2013 2014 Year-end (share price in €) 49.75 55.71 57.65 Year-high (share price in €) 49.75 56.08 60.77 Year-low (share price in €) 35.16 42.65 47.63 Year-average (share price in €) 42.23 49.32 54.87 Average daily trade (in € millions) 39.6 39.8 36.9 Average daily trade 0.9 0.8 0.7 (in millions of shares) Number of shares outstanding at 239.0 242.6 246.0 year-end (in millions) Market capitalization at year-end (in 11.9 13.5 14.1 € billions) Net income per share (in €) (8.82) 3.00 2.23 Dividend per share (in €) 1.45 1.45 1.45 Dividend yield (in %) 3.4 2.9 2.6 136 Governance and compliance | AkzoNobel Report 2014 Broad base of international AkzoNobel in key Credit rating and outlook shareholders sustainability indices AkzoNobel is committed to maintaining a strong investment AkzoNobel, which has a 100 percent free float, has a In 2014, AkzoNobel was ranked number one in the Materials grade rating. Regular review meetings are held between broad base of international shareholders. Based on an industry group of the Dow Jones Sustainability World Index rating agencies and AkzoNobel senior management. independent shareholder ID carried out in December 2014, (DJSI World) for the third consecutive year. See table for present rating and outlook. the chart below shows the geographical spread. Around 8 percent of the company’s share capital is held by private The company was maintained in the Euronext Vigeo – Rating agency Long-term rating Outlook investors, many of whom are resident in the Netherlands. World 120 index. This index distinguishes companies Moody’s 1 Baa1 Stable achieving the most advanced environmental, social and Standard & Poor’s 2 BBB+ Stable governance performances and is reviewed every six months Distribution of shares 2014 in June and December. 1 Rating affirmed on November 13, 2014. 2 Rating affirmed on December 12, 2014. We retained the leadership of the Sustainalytics chemicals E industry ranking. A North America 53 F Bonds B UK/Ireland 14 We were also once again represented in the Carbon D C The Netherlands 8 Disclosure Project, which represents more than On January 31, 2014, an €825 million bond was repaid D Rest of Europe 15 A 767 institutional investors, with over $92 trillion in assets from existing resources. On November 7, 2014, a further E Rest of world 3 C under management, and qualified for the Benelux Climate €500 million bond was issued, taking advantage of favorable F Undisclosed 7 Disclosure Leadership Index (CDLI) 2014. Following the market conditions and historically low interest rates. B September 2014 review, we also remained part of the FTSE4Good Index Series. Debt maturity* in € millions (nominal amounts) During the year, the company was also selected for inclusion € Bonds Distribution of shares 2013 in the Global Compact 100 stock index (2014-2015) and £ Bonds became part of the STOXX® Global ESG Leaders indices. 800 750 We also qualified for Storebrand/SPP’s flagship sustainability fund, a global equity fund which invests in top performing 622 A North America 47 E F companies across sectors; Storebrand Trippel Smart 500 B UK/Ireland 12 (Norway) and SPP Global Topp 100 (Sweden). We also C The Netherlands 12 D A became a constituent of the MSCI Global Sustainability 300 D Rest of Europe 14 Indexes/MSCI World ESG Index. E Rest of world 3 F Undisclosed 12 C 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 B * At the end of Q4 2014. For further information please go to www.akzonobel.com/investors AkzoNobel Report 2014 | Governance and compliance 137 In touch with the future Having your finger on the pulse and staying on top of the latest developments is vital in today’s fast-paced world. Which is why we supply advanced products for smartphones that help set new standards in technology. Financial information Financial statements Note 22 Remuneration of the Supervisory Board 172 Consolidated statement of income 140 and the Board of Management Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 140 Note 23 Financial risk management 175 Consolidated balance sheet 141 Consolidated statement of cash flows 142 Company financial statements Consolidated statement of changes in equity 143 Note A General information 179 Segment information 144 Note B Financial non-current assets and provisions 181 for subsidiaries Notes to the Consolidated financial statements Note C Trade and other receivables 181 Note 1 Summary of significant accounting policies 145 Note D Cash and cash equivalents 181 Note 2 Scope of consolidation 150 Note E Shareholders’ equity 181 Note 3 Operating income 151 Note F Long-term borrowings 182 Note 4 Employee benefits 151 Note G Short-term debt 182 Note 5 Financing income and expenses 153 Note H Financial instruments 183 Note 6 Income tax 153 Note I Contingent liabilities 183 Note 7 Intangible assets 156 Note J Auditor’s fees 183 Note 8 Property, plant and equipment 158 Note 9 Investments in associates and joint ventures 159 Other information Note 10 Other financial non-current assets 159 Independent auditor’s report 184 Note 11 Inventories 160 Profit allocation and distributions 187 Note 12 Trade and other receivables 160 Note 13 Cash, cash flow and net debt 161 Financial summary 188 Financial information Note 14 Group equity 162 Note 15 Post-retirement benefit provisions 163 Note 16 Other provisions 168 Note 17 Long-term borrowings 169 Note 18 Short-term borrowings 170 Note 19 Trade and other payables 170 Note 20 Contingent liabilities and commitments 171 Note 21 Related party transactions 172 139 Consolidated statement of income Consolidated statement of comprehensive income In € millions Note 2013 2014 In € millions 2013 2014 Profit for the period 792 618 Continuing operations Revenue 14,590 14,296 Other comprehensive income Cost of sales 3 (8,951) (8,676) Items that will not be reclassified to the statement of income: Gross profit 5,639 5,620 Post-retirement benefits (200) (589) Selling expenses 3 (3,023) (2,912) Income tax (64) 34 General and administrative expenses 3 (1,346) (1,273) Net effect (264) (555) Research and development expenses 3 (373) (363) Items that may be reclassified subsequently to the statement of Other operating income/(expenses) 3 61 (85) income: (4,681) (4,633) Exchange differences arising on translation of foreign operations (510) 433 Operating income 958 987 Cash flow hedge reserve (2) – Financing income 5 32 42 Income tax (7) (16) Financing expenses related to pensions 5 (21) (18) Net effect (519) 417 Other financing expenses 5 (211) (180) Results from associates and 9 14 21 Other comprehensive income for the period (783) (138) joint ventures Comprehensive income for the period 9 480 Profit before tax 772 852 Comprehensive income attributable to Income tax 6 (111) (252) Shareholders of the company (20) 365 Profit from continuing operations 661 600 Non-controlling interests 29 115 Discontinued operations Comprehensive income for the period 9 480 Profit for the period from 2 131 18 discontinued operations Profit for the period 792 618 Attributable to Shareholders of the company 724 546 Non-controlling interests 68 72 Profit for the period 792 618 Earnings per share, in € Continuing operations Basic 14 2.46 2.16 Diluted 14 2.44 2.15 Discontinued operations Basic 14 0.54 0.07 Diluted 14 0.54 0.07 Total operations Basic 14 3.00 2.23 Diluted 14 2.98 2.22 140 Financial information | AkzoNobel Report 2014 Consolidated balance sheet at year-end, before allocation of profit In € millions Note 2013 2014 Assets Non-current assets Intangible assets 7 3,906 4,142 Property, plant and equipment 8 3,589 3,835 Deferred tax assets 6 1,071 1,152 Investment in associates and joint ventures 9 183 183 Other financial non-current assets 10 965 813 Total non-current assets 9,714 10,125 Current assets Inventories 11 1,426 1,545 Current tax assets 6 86 88 Trade and other receivables 12 2,536 2,743 Cash and cash equivalents 13 2,098 1,732 Assets held for sale 2 203 66 Total current assets 6,349 6,174 Total assets 16,063 16,299 Equity and liabilities Equity Shareholders’ equity 14 5,594 5,790 Non-controlling interests 14 427 477 Group equity 6,021 6,267 Non-current liabilities Post-retirement benefit provisions 15 1,237 1,488 Other provisions 16 701 655 Deferred tax liabilities 6 389 412 Long-term borrowings 17 2,666 2,527 Total non-current liabilities 4,993 5,082 Current liabilities Short-term borrowings 18 961 811 Current tax liabilities 6 220 227 Trade and other payables 19 3,218 3,407 Current portion of provisions 16 601 494 Liabilities held for sale 2 49 11 Total current liabilities 5,049 4,950 Total equity and liabilities 16,063 16,299 AkzoNobel Report 2014 | Financial information 141 Consolidated statement of cash flows In € millions Note 2013 2014 Profit for the period 792 618 Income from discontinued operations 2 (131) (18) Adjustments to reconcile earnings to cash generated from operating activities Amortization/depreciation 7, 8 616 618 Impairment losses 7, 8 139 2 Financing income and expenses 5 200 156 Results from associates and joint ventures 9 (14) (21) Pre-tax result on divestments 2 (246) (8) Income tax 6 111 252 Changes in working capital 13 (13) 28 Changes in provisions 13 (395) (406) Interest paid (228) (206) Income tax paid 6 (230) (258) Other 115 54 Net cash from operating activities 716 811 Capital expenditures 8 (666) (588) Interest received 38 34 Dividends from associates and joint ventures 9 10 11 Acquisition of consolidated companies 2 (34) (13) Proceeds from divestments 2 347 51 Other changes (24) (24) Net cash from investing activities (329) (529) Proceeds from borrowings 17, 18 249 980 Borrowings repaid 18 (502) (1,347) Issue of shares for stock option plan 4, 14 13 12 Dividends (286) (280) Net cash from financing activities (526) (635) Net cash used for continuing operations (139) (353) Cash flows from discontinued operations 2 675 (88) Net change in cash and cash equivalents of continued and discontinued operations 536 (441) Cash and cash equivalents at January 1 13 1,558 2,020 Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents (74) 70 Cash and cash equivalents 2,020 1,649 142 Financial information | AkzoNobel Report 2014 Consolidated statement of changes in equity Attributable to shareholders of the company Other (statutory) Additional Cash flow Cumulative reserves and Subscribed paid-in hedge translation undistributed Shareholders’ Non-controlling In € millions share capital capital reserve reserve profit equity interests Group equity Balance at January 1, 2013 478 174 (17) 61 5,068 5,764 464 6,228 Profit for the period – – – – 724 724 68 792 Transfer to goodwill – – (2) – – (2) – (2) Reclassification into the statement of income – – 19 (65) – (46) – (46) Other comprehensive income – – (19) (406) (200) (625) (39) (664) Tax on other comprehensive income – – – (7) (64) (71) – (71) Comprehensive income – – (2) (478) 460 (20) 29 9 Dividend paid 6 133 – – (349) (210) (76) (286) Equity-settled transactions – – – – 46 46 – 46 Issue of common shares 1 12 – – – 13 – 13 Acquisitions and divestments – – – – 1 1 10 11 Balance at December 31, 2013 485 319 (19) (417) 5,226 5,594 427 6,021 Profit for the period – – – – 546 546 72 618 Reclassification into the statement of income – – 15 – – 15 – 15 Other comprehensive income – – (15) 390 (589) (214) 43 (171) Tax on other comprehensive income – – – (16) 34 18 – 18 Comprehensive income – – – 374 (9) 365 115 480 Dividend paid 5 137 – – (354) (212) (68) (280) Equity-settled transactions – – – – 34 34 – 34 Issue of common shares 2 7 – – – 9 3 12 Balance at December 31, 2014 492 463 (19) (43) 4,897 5,790 477 6,267 AkzoNobel Report 2014 | Financial information 143 Segment information Our Decorative Paints business supplies a full range of inteindustry and we serve a large range of customers including can makers and vehicle bodyshops. Our Specialty Chemicals rior and exterior decoration and protection products for both ship and yacht builders, architects, consumer electronics and products are used in a wide variety of everyday products the professional and do-it-yourself markets. Our Performance appliance companies, steel manufacturers, the construction such as ice cream, soups, disinfectants, plastics, soaps, Coatings businesses are represented in most markets of this industry, furniture makers, aircraft, bus and truck producers, detergents, cosmetics, paper and asphalt. Information per Business Area Amortization and Revenue from third parties Group revenue depreciation Incidentals Operating income ROS (in %) In € millions 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 Decorative Paints 4,131 3,858 4,174 3,909 (162) (157) 198 – 398 248 9.5 6.3 Performance Coatings 5,532 5,569 5,571 5,589 (138) (142) – – 525 545 9.4 9.8 Specialty Chemicals 4,924 4,864 4,949 4,883 (308) (307) (121) – 297 508 6.0 10.4 Corporate and other 3 5 (104) (85) (8) (12) (16) (85) (262) (314) – – Total 14,590 14,296 14,590 14,296 (616) (618) 61 (85) 958 987 6.6 6.9 Invested capital Total assets Total liabilities Capital expenditures ROI (in %) In € millions 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 Decorative Paints 2,589 2,791 4,315 4,610 1,987 1,833 171 143 13.7 8.8 Performance Coatings 2,251 2,424 4,062 4,243 1,593 1,680 143 143 21.3 22.0 Specialty Chemicals 3,355 3,402 4,388 4,641 983 1,283 346 297 8.2 14.8 Corporate and other 1,086 1,246 3,095 2,739 5,430 5,225 6 5 – – Assets held for sale – – 203 66 49 11 – – – – Total 9,281 9,863 16,063 16,299 10,042 10,032 666 588 9.6 10.0 Regional information Intangible assets and property, Revenue by region of destination plant and equipment Invested capital Capital expenditures In € millions 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 The Netherlands 765 762 834 1,691 1,174 2,088 94 72 Germany 1,176 986 523 596 725 802 87 106 Sweden 473 436 396 350 424 431 38 40 UK 887 947 1,021 419 1,286 730 74 74 Other European countries 3,531 3,341 910 790 1,223 1,011 66 57 US and Canada 2,155 2,193 1,002 1,096 1,730 1,825 62 68 Brazil 925 883 465 465 557 574 70 36 Other Latin American countries 628 602 74 74 140 141 13 9 China 1,643 1,730 1,563 1,735 1,295 1,465 104 75 India 353 354 138 154 116 137 17 7 Other Asian countries 1,380 1,385 481 508 461 484 23 27 Other regions 674 677 88 99 150 175 18 17 Total 14,590 14,296 7,495 7,977 9,281 9,863 666 588 144 Financial information | AkzoNobel Report 2014 Notes to the 1 Note 1: Summary of significant accounting policies Consolidated financial statements General information Joint arrangements Under IFRS 11 “Joint Arrangements”, effective January 1, Akzo Nobel N.V. is a company headquartered in the 2014, the interest in a joint arrangement has to be classiNetherlands. The address of our registered office is fied as either a joint operation (if the investor has rights to Strawinskylaan 2555, Amsterdam. We have filed a list of the assets and the obligations for liabilities relating to the subsidiaries, associated companies and joint ventures, arrangement) or a joint venture (if the investor has rights drawn up in conformity with sections 379 and 414 of only to the net assets of the arrangement). This standard Book 2 of the Netherlands Civil Code, with the Trade did not affect our Consolidated financial statements. Registry of Amsterdam. Disclosure of interests in other entities We have prepared the Consolidated financial statements As a result of IFRS 12 “Disclosure of Interests in Other of Akzo Nobel N.V. in accordance with International Entities”, effective January 1, 2014, we have expanded the Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted by the disclosures about our non-controlling interests in subsidEuropean Union. They also comply with the financial iaries (Note 14) and equity-accounted investees (Note 9), reporting requirements included in Section 9 of Book 2 of when necessary. the Netherlands Civil Code, as far as applicable. Other changes On February 11, 2015, the Board of Management authoOther accounting pronouncements, which became effecrized the financial statements for issue. The financial statetive for 2014, had no material impact on our Consolidated ments as presented in this report are subject to adoption financial statements. by the Annual General Meeting of shareholders. Discontinued operations (Note 2) Consolidation A discontinued operation is a component of our busiThe Consolidated financial statements include the ness that represents a separate major line of business or accounts of Akzo Nobel N.V. and its subsidiaries. geographical area of operations that has been disposed Subsidiaries are companies over which Akzo Nobel of or is held for sale, or is a subsidiary acquired exclusively N.V. has control, because it is exposed, or has rights, to with a view to resale. Assets and liabilities are classified as variable returns from its involvement with the subsidiary held for sale if it is highly probable that the carrying value and has the ability to affect returns through its power over will be recovered through a sale transaction within one the subsidiary. Non-controlling interests in equity and in year rather than through continuing use. When reclassifyresults are presented separately. ing assets and liabilities as held for sale, we recognize the assets and liabilities at the lower of their carrying value or fair value less selling costs. Assets held for sale are not Change in accounting policies depreciated but tested for impairment. Consolidation IFRS 10 “Consolidated Financial Statements”, effective January 1, 2014, introduced an amended concept of control to determine whether an investee should be consolidated. This standard did not affect our scope of consolidation. AkzoNobel Report 2014 | Financial information 145 income upon disposal (either fully or partly) or liquidation Use of estimates Operating segments of the foreign subsidiary to which the investment or the intercompany loan with a permanent nature relates to. The preparation of the financial statements in compliance We determine and present operating segments (“Business with IFRS requires management to make judgments, estiAreas”) on the information that is provided to the ExecuForeign currency differences arising on the re-translation mates and assumptions that affect amounts reported in tive Committee, our chief operating decision maker during of a financial liability designated as an effective hedge of a the financial statements. The estimates and assumptions 2014, to make decisions about resources to be allocated net investment in a foreign operation are recognized in the are based on experience and various other factors that to the Business Area and assess its performance. Busicumulative translation reserves (in Other comprehensive are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances ness Area results reported to the Executive Committee income). and are used to judge the carrying values of assets and include items directly attributable to a Business Area as liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. well as those items that can be allocated on a reasonable The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed basis. Unallocated items comprise mainly corporate assets Exchange rates of key currencies on an ongoing basis. The most critical accounting policies and corporate costs and are reported in Business Area involving a higher degree of judgment and complexity in “Corporate and other”. The principal exchange rates against the euro used in applying principles of valuation and for which changes in preparing the balance sheet and the statement of the assumptions and estimates could result in significantly income are: different results than those recorded in the financial stateForeign currencies ments are the following: Balance sheet Statement of income • Scope of consolidation (Note 2) Transactions in foreign currencies are translated into 2013 2014 2013 2014 • Income tax and deferred tax assets (Note 6) the functional currency using the foreign exchange US dollar 1.378 1.216 1.328 1.329 • Impairment of intangible assets and property, plant and rate at transaction date. Monetary assets and liabilities Pound sterling 0.834 0.780 0.850 0.806 equipment (Note 7, 8) denominated in foreign currencies are translated into Swedish krona 8.836 9.399 8.647 9.099 • Post-retirement benefits (Note 15) the functional currency using the exchange rates at the Chinese yuan 8.399 7.561 8.209 8.199 • Provisions (Note 16) balance sheet date. Resulting foreign currency differences are included in the statement of income. Non-monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are Statement of cash flows translated into the functional currency at the exchange rate Revenue recognition We have used the indirect method to prepare the stateat acquisition date. ment of cash flows. Cash flows in foreign currencies have Revenue is defined as the revenue from the sale and been translated at transaction rates. Acquisitions or divestThe assets and liabilities of entities with other funcdelivery of goods and services and royalty income, net of ments of subsidiaries are presented net of cash and cash tional currencies are translated into euros, the functional rebates, discounts and similar allowances, and net of sales equivalents acquired or disposed of, respectively. Cash currency of the parent entity, using the exchange rates at tax. Revenue is recognized when the significant risks and flows from derivatives are recognized in the statement of the balance sheet date. The income and expenses of entirewards have been transferred to a third party, recovery of cash flows in the same category as those of the hedged ties with other functional currencies are translated into the the consideration is probable, the associated costs and items. functional currency, using the exchange rates at transacpossible return of goods can be estimated reliably and tion date. there is no continuing management involvement with the goods. For revenue from sales of goods these condiForeign exchange differences resulting from translation into tions are generally met at the time the product is shipped the functional currency of investments in subsidiaries and and delivered to the customer, depending on the delivery of intercompany loans of a permanent nature with other conditions. Service revenue is generally recognized as functional currencies are recorded as a separate composervices are rendered. nent (cumulative translation reserves) within Other comprehensive income. These cumulative translation adjustments are reclassified (either fully or partly) to the statement of 146 Financial information | AkzoNobel Report 2014 Current tax includes the expected tax payable and receivPost-retirement benefits Other employee benefits able on the taxable income for the year, using tax rates (Note 4, 15) (Note 4, 16) enacted or substantially enacted at reporting date, as well as any adjustments to tax payable and receivable with Contributions to defined contribution plans are recognized Provisions for other long-term employee benefits are respect to previous years. in the statement of income as incurred. measured at present value, using actuarial assumptions and methods. Any actuarial gains and losses are recogDeferred tax is recognized using the balance sheet Most of our defined benefit pension plans are funded with nized in the statement of income in the period in which method. We do not recognize deferred tax for the initial plan assets that have been segregated in a trust or founthey arise. recognition of goodwill, the initial recognition of assets or dation. In certain countries we also provide post-retirement liabilities that affect neither accounting nor taxable profit, benefits other than pensions to our employees and these and differences related to investments in subsidiaries plans are generally not funded. Valuations of both funded Share-based compensation to the extent that they will probably not reverse in the and unfunded plans are carried out by independent actuaries based on the projected unit credit method. (Note 4) foreseeable future. Deferred tax assets are recognized for unused tax losses, tax credits and deductible temporary Post-retirement costs primarily represent the increase in We have a performance-related share plan, under which differences, to the extent that it is probable that future the actuarial present value of the obligation for projected shares are conditionally granted to certain employees. The taxable profits will be available against which they can be benefits based on employee service during the year and fair value is measured at grant date and amortized over utilized. the interest on this obligation with respect to employee the three-year period during which the employees normally service in previous years, net of the expected return on become unconditionally entitled to the performance-relatMeasurement of deferred tax assets and liabilities is plan assets, if any. When the calculation results in a ed shares with a corresponding increase in shareholders’ based upon the enacted or substantially enacted tax rates benefit to AkzoNobel, the recognized asset is limited to the equity. Amortization is accelerated in the event of earlier expected to apply to taxable income in the years in which present value of economic benefits available in the form vesting. The fair value of the performance-related shares temporary differences are expected to be reversed. Nonof any future refunds from the plan or reductions in future for which vesting is based on the company’s performance refundable dividend tax is taken into account in the detercontributions to the plan. An economic benefit is available or the ranking for sustainability, is the value of the Akzo mination of deferred tax liabilities to the extent of earnings if it is realizable during the life of the plan, or on the settleNobel N.V. common share on the date of the grant. The expected to be distributed by subsidiaries in the foreseement of the plan liabilities. The effect of these so-called fair value for the TSR-linked vesting condition is measured able future. Deferred tax positions are not discounted. asset ceiling restrictions and any changes therein, is using actuarial valuation methods. The amount recognized recognized in Other comprehensive income. as an expense is adjusted to reflect the actual number of performance-related shares that vest, except when forfeiGovernment grants Actuarial gains and losses, which arise in calculating our ture or extra vesting is due to TSR performance, because obligation with reference to a plan, are recognized in this is a market performance condition. Government grants related to costs are deducted from Other comprehensive income. When the benefits of a plan the relevant cost to be compensated in the same period. improve, the portion of the increased benefits related to Government grants to compensate for the cost of an asset past service by employees is recognized as an expense in Income tax (Note 6) are deducted from the cost of the related asset. Emission the statement of income immediately. We recognize gains rights granted by the government are recorded at cost. A and losses on the curtailment or settlement of a defined Income tax expense comprises both current and deferred provision is recorded if the actual emission is higher than benefit plan when the curtailment or settlement occurs. tax, including effects of changes in tax rates. In determinthe emission rights granted. ing the amount of current and deferred tax we also take Interest on the defined benefit obligations net of the return into account the impact of uncertain tax positions and on plan assets is included in financing expenses related whether additional taxes and interest may be due. Income Intangible assets (Note 7) to pensions. Other charges and benefits recognized are tax is recognized in the statement of income, unless reported in Operating income, in as far as they are not it relates to items recognized in Other comprehensive Intangible assets are valued at cost less accumulated recorded in Other comprehensive income. income. amortization and impairment charges. Intangible assets with an indefinite useful life, such as goodwill and certain AkzoNobel Report 2014 | Financial information 147 brands, are not amortized, but tested for impairment annuWe recognize conditional asset retirement obligations in ally. Goodwill in a business combination represents the the periods in which sufficient information becomes availAssociates and joint ventures excess of the consideration paid over the net fair value of the acquired identifiable assets, liabilities and continable to reasonably estimate the cash outflow. (Note 9) gent liabilities. If the cost of an acquisition is less than Associates and joint ventures are accounted for using the the fair value of the net assets of the subsidiary acquired, Impairments (Note 7, 8) equity method and are initially recognized at cost. The the difference is recognized directly in the statement of Consolidated financial statements include our share of the income. The effects of all transactions with non-controlling We assess the carrying value of intangible assets and income and expenses of the associates and joint ventures, interests are recorded in equity if there is no change in property, plant and equipment whenever events or whereby the result is determined using our accounting control. changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying principles. When the share of losses exceeds the interest amount of an asset may not be recoverable. In addition, in the investee, the carrying amount is reduced to nil and Intangible assets with a finite useful life, such as licenses, for goodwill and other intangible assets with an indefirecognition of further losses is discontinued, unless we know-how, brands, customer relationships, intellectual nite useful life, we review the carrying value annually in have incurred legal or constructive obligations on behalf property rights and capitalized development and software the fourth quarter. If the carrying value of an asset or its of the investee. Loans to associates and joint ventures are costs, are capitalized at historical cost and amortized cash-generating unit exceeds its estimated recoverable carried at amortized cost less impairment losses. on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful life of amount, an impairment loss is recognized in the statement the assets, which generally ranges from five to 40 years. of income. The assessment for impairment is performed at Amortization methods, useful lives and residual values are the lowest level of assets generating largely independent Inventories (Note 11) reassessed annually. cash inflows. For goodwill and other intangible assets with an indefinite life, we have determined this to be at business Inventories are measured at the lower of cost and net unit level (one level below segment). realizable value. Costs of inventories comprise all costs of Property, plant and equipment purchase, costs of conversion and other costs incurred (Note 8) Except for goodwill, we reverse impairment losses in the statement of income if and to the extent we have identified in bringing the inventories to the present location and condition. The costs of inventories are determined using Property, plant and equipment are valued at cost less a change in estimates used to determine the recoverable weighted average cost. accumulated depreciation and impairment charges. Costs amount. include expenditures that are directly attributable to the acquisition of the asset, including financing expenses of Provisions (Note 16) capital investment projects under construction. Leases (Note 8, 20) We recognize provisions when a present legal or construcDepreciation is calculated using the straight-line method, Lease contracts in which we have substantially all the risks tive obligation as a result of a past event exists, and it is based on the estimated useful life of the asset compoand rewards of ownership are classified as finance leases. probable that an outflow of economic benefits is required nents. In the majority of cases the useful life of plant equipUpon initial recognition, the leased asset is measured at to settle the obligation. Provisions are measured at net ment and machinery is ten years, and for buildings ranges the lower of its fair value and the present value of minimum present value. The increase of provisions as a result of the from 20 to 30 years. Land is not depreciated. In the majorlease payments. Subsequent to initial recognition, the passage of time is recognized in the statement of income ity of cases residual value is assumed to be insignificant. asset is accounted for in accordance with the accounting under Other financing expenses. Depreciation methods, useful lives and residual values are policy applicable to the asset. The interest expenses are reassessed annually. recognized as other financing expenses over the lease Provisions for restructuring are recognized when a detailed term. and formal restructuring plan has been approved, and Costs of major maintenance activities are capitalized over the restructuring has either commenced or has been the estimated useful life. Maintenance costs which cannot Payments made under operating leases are recognized in announced publicly. We do not provide for future operating be separately defined as a component of property, plant the statement of income on a straight-line basis over the costs. A provision for warranties is recognized when the and equipment are expensed in the period in which they term of the lease. underlying products or services are sold, generally based occur. on historical warranty data. 148 Financial information | AkzoNobel Report 2014 the effective part of the fair value changes is deferred in Long-term and short-term borrowings (Note 17, Financial instruments Other comprehensive income and released to the related 18, 23) and trade and other payables (Note 19) specific lines in the statement of income or balance sheet Long-term and short-term borrowings, as well as trade Regular purchases and sales of financial assets and at the same time as the hedged item. and other payables, are measured at amortized cost, using liabilities are recognized on trade date. The initial measurethe effective interest rate method. The interest expense on ment of all financial instruments is at fair value. Except for Other financial non-current assets (Note 10) and borrowings is included in Other financing expenses. The derivatives, the initial measurement of financial instruments trade and other receivables (Note 12) fair value of borrowings, used for disclosure purposes, is is adjusted for directly attributable transaction costs. Loans and receivables are measured at amortized cost, determined on the basis of listed market price, if availusing the effective interest method, less any impairment able. If a listed market price is not available, the fair value Derivative financial instruments (Note 23) losses. An allowance for impairment is established if the is calculated based on the present value of principal Derivative financial instruments are recognized at fair value collection of a receivable becomes doubtful. and interest cash flows, discounted at the interest at the on the balance sheet. Fair values are derived from market reporting date, taking into account AkzoNobel’s credit risk. prices and quotes from dealers and brokers, or are estimated using observable market inputs. When determining Cash and cash equivalents (Note 13) fair values, credit risk for our contract party, as well as for Cash and cash equivalents are measured at fair value and New IFRS accounting standards AkzoNobel, is taken into account. include all cash balances and short-term investments that are directly convertible into cash. Changes in fair values IFRS standards and interpretations thereof not yet in force Changes in the fair value are recognized in the statement are included in Financing income. which may apply to our Consolidated financial statements of income, unless cash flow hedge accounting or net for 2015 and beyond have been assessed for their poteninvestment hedge accounting is applied. In those cases, tial impact. The most important upcoming changes are: Other new IFRS accounting standards Endorsed by the Standard Published Implementation date in the standard European Union Anticipated impact IFRS 9, “Financial Instruments” 2009-2014 Implementation date of January 1, 2018, with Not yet endorsed IFRS 9 introduces new requirements for classifying and measuring financial assets and earlier adoption permitted liabilities. This standard encompasses an overall change of accounting principles for financial instruments and replaces IAS 39 – the current standard on financial instruments. We will start to make an assessment of the impact of IFRS 9 in 2015. Amendment to IAS 19, June 27, 2013 July 1, 2014, with earlier adoption permitted December 17, 2014 This amendment gives further guidance on the accounting for employee contributions “Employee benefits (Employee to post-retirement benefit plans and will become effective for our 2015 Consolidated contributions)” financial statements. We have assessed that this amendment will not materially affect our Consolidated financial statements. IFRS 15, “Revenue from May 28, 2014 January 1, 2017, with earlier adoption permitted Not yet endorsed IFRS 15 replaces existing revenue recognition guidance in IFRS. It introduces a five-step Contracts with Customers” model to determine when to recognize revenue and at what amount, based on transfer of control over goods or services to the customer. New qualitative and quantitative disclosures will also be required. We will assess the impact of IFRS 15 on our Consolidated financial statements in 2015. AkzoNobel Report 2014 | Financial information 149 2 Note 2: Scope of consolidation In 2014, Decorative Paints completed the divestment of Assets and liabilities held for sale the German stores. Specialty Chemicals announced the intended sale of its Paper Chemicals portfolio for In € millions 2013 2014 €153 million. The transaction is expected to be completed Property, plant and equipment 50 23 in 2015, subject to regular consultation with employee Intangible assets 111 21 representatives and satisfaction of closing conditions such Other assets 42 22 as receipt of required regulatory clearances. This business Total assets 203 66 is currently part of Pulp and Performance Chemicals and is Total non-current liabilities 25 3 accounted for as held for sale. Businesses that no longer Total current liabilities 24 8 qualify as held for sale have been reclassified to ongoing Total liabilities 49 11 operations. No acquisition in 2014, individually nor in total, was Discontinued operations deemed material in respect of IFRS 3 disclosure requireIn € millions 2013 2014 ments. Revenue 281 – Expenses (294) – During 2013, we concluded the divestment of Building Results from operating activities (13) – Adhesives in Decorative Paints and some smaller divestments, such as the Primary Amides and Purate businessIncome tax 7 – es in Specialty Chemicals. Results from operating activities after tax (6) – Gain on the divestment of Decorative Paints North America 138 – Discontinued operations Income tax on the sale 3 – During 2013, the divestment of the North American DecoDeal result 141 – rative Paints business was completed and resulted in Results related to discontinued operations in previous years (36) 13 €779 million net cash inflows and a transaction gain after Tax related to discontinued operations in previous years 32 5 tax of €141 million, both reported in discontinued operaProfit for the period 131 18 tions. The net cash from operating activities in 2014 mainly relates to a settlement for a case following the divestment of Organon BioSciences in 2007. Cash flows from discontinued operations In € millions 2013 2014 Material subsidiaries Net cash from operating activities (87) (88) The Consolidated financial statements comprise the Net cash from investing activities 762 – assets and liabilities of approximately 400 legal entities. We Net cash from discontinued operations 675 (88) consider legal entities material when they represent, for at least two subsequent years, more than 5 percent of either revenue or operating income (before incidentals). Material Material subsidiaries subsidiaries included in the table are 100 percent owned and meet these criteria. Legal entity Principal place of business/country of corporation Akzo Nobel Coatings Inc. United States Akzo Nobel Pulp and Performance Chemicals AB Sweden Akzo Nobel Industrial Chemicals B.V. The Netherlands Akzo Nobel Surface Chemistry LLC United States Akzo Nobel Ltda Brazil 150 Financial information | AkzoNobel Report 2014 3 Note 3: Operating income 4 Note 4: Employee benefits Operating income increased 3 percent to €987 million, • Specialty Chemicals increased profitability over the Salaries, wages and other employee benefits in due to higher operating results and lower restructuring previous year, with significant savings from restructuring operating income charges, offset by higher incidental items (€85 million programs. Operating income in 2013 was affected by In € millions 2013 2014 adverse items in 2014 and €61 million favorable items in €121 million incidental charges Salaries and wages (2,268) (2,226) 2013). These related to an external fraud suffered by one Post-retirement cost (268) (221) of our subsidiaries in the US, provisions for legacy items Average raw material costs were stable compared with Other social charges (414) (377) and project costs related to a divestment. Restructuring 2013 exit prices. In some high growth markets, currency Total (2,950) (2,824) charges in 2014 were €253 million (2013: 348 million). The effects on imported raw materials have affected some majority of the restructuring charges related to Perforbusinesses. mance Coatings. • In Decorative Paints, operating income in 2013 included Average number of employees a gain of €198 million from the divestment of Building Revenue and cost by nature Average number during the year 2013 2014 Adhesives. Excluding this effect, operating income Decorative Paints 16,800 15,500 improved. Restructuring charges were lower than the In € millions 2013 2014 Performance Coatings 21,300 21,000 previous year. In addition, costs were down following Revenue 14,590 14,296 Specialty Chemicals 10,600 10,000 the implementation of restructuring programs and strict Variable selling cost (714) (687) cost control Corporate and other 1,500 1,700 Materials and energy (6,959) (6,777) • In Performance Coatings, operating income increased Total 50,200 48,200 Amortization and depreciation (616) (618) 4 percent compared with 2013. Improved operational Employee benefits (2,950) (2,824) effectiveness more than compensated for increased Impairment (139) – The average number of employees working outside restructuring charges. A major restructuring activity was Other (2,254) (2,403) the Netherlands was 43,100 (2013: 45,000). the implementation of a new organizational structure with Operating income 958 987 fewer management layers and clearer accountability Employees At year-end 2013 2014 Certain costs per category Decorative Paints 16,200 15,200 2013 2014 Performance Coatings 21,400 20,500 Employee Employee Specialty Chemicals 10,400 9,800 In € millions benefits Amortization Depreciation Incidentals benefits Amortization Depreciation Incidentals Corporate and other 1,600 1,700 Cost of sales (998) (7) (343) – (924) (7) (347) – Total 49,600 47,200 Selling expenses (943) (94) (75) – (986) (90) (70) – General and administrative (772) (36) (36) (15) (682) (37) (43) – expenses Research and development (237) (7) (18) – (230) (7) (17) – At year-end 2014, the workforce has contracted by expenses 5 percent to 47,200 employees (year-end 2013: 49,600 Other operating income/ – – – 76 (2) – – (85) employees). The decrease was mainly due to: (expenses) • A decrease of 400 employees due to divestments Total (2,950) (144) (472) 61 (2,824) (141) (477) (85) • A decrease of 2,000 employees due to ongoing restructuring AkzoNobel Report 2014 | Financial information 151 Share-based compensation • Our TSR performance over the period 2012-2014 The TSR part of the award is valued applying a Monte resulted in a ninth position within the ranking of the Carlo simulation model and the other part is valued based Share-based compensation relates to the performancepeer group companies. This did not result in vesting of on the share price at grant date discounted for the present related share plan, as well as the share-matching plan. conditional shares value of expected dividends over the vesting period. Charges recognized in the 2014 statement of income for • The average position in the RobecoSAM benchmark share-based compensation amounted to €34 million and resulted in a first position within the ranking Furthermore, for members of the Executive Committee, are included in salaries and wages (2013: €43 million). an additional holding restriction applies after the vesting As a result, the conditional shares of the 2012-2014 series period, up to a total of five years. Regarding this restriction Performance-related share plan vested for 75 percent (series 2011-2013: 70.83 percent), an additional discount is taken into account. This leads to Under the performance-related share plan, a number including dividend shares of 9.62 percent, the final vesting a lower fair value for their awards (€44.60). of conditional shares are granted to the members of percentage amounted to 82.22 percent (series 2011the Board of Management, members of the Executive 2013: 77.98 percent). The parameters applied for the fair value calculations are: Committee and executives each year. The number of share price at date of grant (opening of January 2, 2014): participants of the performance-related share plan at yearThe fair value of the performance-related share plan at €56.44, expected volatility: 28.20 percent, expected diviend 2014 was 635 (2013: 689). grant date is amortized as a charge against income over dend yield: 3.04 percent; and risk-free interest rate: the three-year vesting period. The fair value for the shares 0.54 percent. The 2012 conditional grant of shares is linked for conditionally started in 2014 without a holding restriction 50 percent to the ranking of the company in the Robecowas €54.55 and €44.60 with a holding restriction (2013: For the peer group (TSR) please refer to the Remuneration SAM benchmark (SAM) and the remaining 50 percent to €52.15 without and €42.30 with a holding restriction). report. the relative TSR performance of the company compared with the peer group. As from the series 2013-2015, an The share price of a common AkzoNobel share at yearShare-matching plan additional performance measure has been added: return end amounted to €57.65 (2013: €55.71). For further The members of the Board of Management and the on investment (ROI). At the same time, the weighting details on our performance-related share plan, refer to the members of the Executive Committee are eligible to changed to 35 percent for both TSR and ROI and Remuneration report. participate in the share-matching plan. Under certain 30 percent for SAM. conditions, members who invest part of their short-term Fair value of performance-related shares incentives in AkzoNobel shares may have such shares The shares of the series 2011-2013 have vested and were The fair value of the performance-related shares (€51.73) matched by the company. The investment in AkzoNobel delivered to the participants in 2014. was for 35 percent based on a market condition (TSR: shares in 2014 resulted in a total of 5,205 potential match€42.99) and for 65 percent based on non-market based ing shares (2013: 2,820). The conditional shares of the 2012-2014 series vested as performance conditions (€56.44). follows: The fair value of the potential matching shares at the date of the share investment is amortized as a charge against income over the three-year vesting period. The fair value Performance-related shares was €49.96 per potential matching share in 2014 (2013: €40.67). Balance at Balance at Vested on January 1, Granted in Vested in Forfeited in Dividend in December January 1, Series 2014 2014 2014 2014 2014 1 31, 2014 2015 2011 – 2013 641,024 – (641,024) – – – – 2012 – 2014 1,113,235 4,782 – (313,397) 19,205 823,825 823,825 2013 – 2015 762,959 7,608 – (54,709) 17,508 733,366 – 2014 – 2016 – 647,299 – (43,780) 15,933 619,452 – Total 2,517,218 659,689 (641,024) (411,886) 52,646 2,176,643 823,825 1 Equivalent in shares related to accumulated dividend, which is included in the balances on balance sheet date. 152 Financial information | AkzoNobel Report 2014 5 Note 5: Financing income and expenses 6 Note 6: Income tax Financing income and expenses Pre-tax income from continued operations amounted to a profit of €852 million (2013: €772 million). The net tax In € millions 2013 2014 charges related to continuing operations are included in Financing income 32 42 the statement of income as follows: Financing expenses (221) (157) Net interest on net debt (189) (115) Other interest movements Classification of current and deferred tax result Financing expenses related to pensions (21) (18) In € millions 2013 2014 Interest on provisions (8) (32) Other items 18 9 Current tax expense for Net other financing charges (11) (41) The year (147) (244) Net financing expenses (200) (156) Adjustments for prior years 6 (8) (141) (252) Net financing expenses for the year decreased by Deferred tax expense for €44 million, from €200 million to €156 million. Significant Origination and reversal of temporary (74) (7) differences and tax losses variances are: (De)recognition of deferred tax assets 97 8 • Net interest on net debt decreased by €74 million to Changes in tax rates 7 (1) €115 million (2013: €189 million), mainly due to lower 30 – financing expenses as a result of bond repayments Total (111) (252) and a higher return on investments held in an escrow account • Financing expenses related to pensions decreased The total tax charge, including discontinued operations, by €3 million to €18 million (2013: €21 million) despite was €247 million (2013: €69 million). higher discount rates, as the opening deficits to which they were applied were lower • Interest on other provisions increased by €24 million to €32 million (2013: €8 million) due to lower discount rates in 2014 • Other items decreased by €9 million to €9 million (2013: €18 million), mainly due to lower capitalized interest (2014: €10 million; 2013: €12 million) and lower interest on other financial assets The average interest rate used for capitalized interest was 5.1 percent (2013: 5.6 percent). AkzoNobel Report 2014 | Financial information 153 Effective tax rate reconciliation Deferred tax assets and liabilities The effective income tax rate based on the Consolidated In the net deferred tax asset for other provisions Income tax recognized in equity statement of income is 29.6 percent. The tax line is (€162 million), an amount of €38 million is related to interIn € millions 2013 2014 impacted by the release of a deferred tax liability due to est expense carried forward. From the total amount of organizational restructuring, offset by the de-recognition recognized net deferred tax assets, €967 million (2013: Current tax for of operating losses and tax credits. In addition, the €916 million) is related to entities that have suffered a loss Currency exchange differences on (7) (16) geographical mix of taxable income affected the tax in either 2014 or 2013 in the tax jurisdiction to which a intercompany loans of a permanent nature charge. The effective tax rate in 2013 included a nondeferred tax asset relates, and where utilization is depencash gain as a result of the recognition of €124 million of dent on future taxable profit in excess of the profit arising Deferred tax for previously unrecognized deferred tax assets and several from the reversal of existing taxable temporary differences. Share-based compensation 3 – non-taxable items. Post-retirement benefits (64) 34 The loss carryforward recognized in the balance sheet and (61) 34 Effective consolidated tax rate its usage will have a decreasing impact on the cash tax Total (68) 18 rate in coming years. in % 2013 2014 Corporate tax rate in the Netherlands 25.0 25.0 Income tax recognized in equity Effect of tax rates in other countries 5.7 0.4 Income tax is recognized on items recorded in Other Unrecognized deferred tax assets Weighted average statutory income 30.7 25.4 comprehensive income only when they are taxable. In case tax rate In € millions 2013 2014 this results in deferred tax assets, these are only recogNon-taxable (income)/expenses (3.7) 0.3 Capital losses – 4 nized to the extent that it is probable that future taxable (De)recognition of deferred tax assets (12.4) (0.9) Tax losses and tax credits 41 135 profits will be available against which they can be utilized. Non-refundable withholding taxes 1.5 3.6 Deductible temporary differences 135 249 Other (1.7) 1.2 Total 176 388 Effective consolidated tax rate 14.4 29.6 The impact of non-refundable withholding tax on the tax rate is dependent on our relative share in the profit Expiration year of loss carryforwards of subsidiaries in countries that levy withholding tax on In € millions 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Later Unlimited Total dividends and on the timing of the remittance of such dividends. This impact is expected to increase in the coming Total loss carryforwards 38 45 131 60 57 444 2,639 3,414 years as a consequence of geomix developments. Based Loss carryforwards not recognized in (8) (24) (50) (35) (31) (17) (74) (239) deferred tax assets on the Dutch tax system there is a limited credit for such Total recognized 30 21 81 25 26 427 2,565 3,175 taxes. 154 Financial information | AkzoNobel Report 2014 Movement in deferred tax in 2013 Net balance Net balance Changes in Recognized in Recognized in December 31, In € millions January 1, 2013 exchange rates income equity Other changes 2013 Assets Liabilities Intangible assets (547) 35 10 – 9 (493) 88 581 Property, plant and equipment (47) 7 (13) – 1 (52) 66 118 Post-retirement benefit provisions 296 (1) (109) 4 (8) 182 279 97 Other provisions 304 (12) (12) – (7) 273 289 16 Other items and tax credits 241 (7) 37 3 (7) 267 329 62 Tax loss carryforwards 943 (20) (242) – – 681 681 – Deferred tax assets not recognized (478) 2 368 (68) – (176) (176) – Tax assets/liabilities 712 4 39 (61) (12) 682 1,556 874 Set-off of tax – – – – – – (485) (485) Net deferred taxes 712 4 39 (61) (12) 682 1,071 389 Movement in deferred tax in 2014 Net balance Net balance Changes in Recognized in Recognized in December 31, In € millions January 1, 2014 exchange rates income equity Other changes 2014 Assets Liabilities Intangible assets (493) (29) 180 – (10) (352) 86 438 Property, plant and equipment (52) (1) 15 – (1) (39) 82 121 Post-retirement benefits provisions 182 11 (64) 138 – 267 348 81 Other provisions 273 21 (132) – – 162 175 13 Other items and tax credits 267 (2) 41 – (1) 305 479 174 Tax loss carryforwards 681 53 51 – – 785 785 – Deferred tax assets not recognized (176) (17) (91) (104) – (388) (388) – Tax assets/liabilities 682 36 – 34 (12) 740 1,567 827 Set-off of tax – – – – – – (415) (415) Net deferred taxes 682 36 – 34 (12) 740 1,152 412 AkzoNobel Report 2014 | Financial information 155 7 Note 7: Intangible assets Intangible assets Customer Other In € millions Goodwill Brands lists intangibles Total Balance at January 1, 2013 Cost of acquisition 1,513 2,226 1,030 394 5,163 Cost of internally developed intangibles – – – 217 217 Accumulated amortization/impairment (161) (108) (435) (222) (926) Carrying value 1,352 2,118 595 389 4,454 Movements in 2013 Acquisitions through business combinations 7 – 9 – 16 Investments – including internally developed intangibles 1 – – 29 30 Transfer to assets held for sale – – (76) (35) (111) Divestments – – – (2) (2) Disposals – – – (5) (5) Impairments (139) (5) (3) (8) (155) Amortization – (13) (75) (56) (144) Changes in exchange rates (42) (105) (21) (9) (177) Total movements (173) (123) (166) (86) (548) Balance at December 31, 2013 Cost of acquisition 1,264 2,113 854 319 4,550 Cost of internally developed intangibles – – – 237 237 Accumulated amortization/impairment (85) (118) (425) (253) (881) Carrying value at year-end 2013 1,179 1,995 429 303 3,906 Movements in 2014 Acquisitions through business combinations 5 – 3 2 10 Investments – including internally developed intangibles – – – 24 24 Transfer from/(to) assets held for sale (16) – 71 35 90 Amortization – (11) (69) (61) (141) Impairments – – – (2) (2) Changes in exchange rates 78 137 29 11 255 Total movements 67 126 34 9 236 Balance at December 31, 2014 Cost of acquisition 1,340 2,267 1,027 401 5,035 Cost of internally developed intangibles – – – 255 255 Accumulated amortization/impairment (94) (146) (564) (344) (1,148) Carrying value at year-end 2014 1,246 2,121 463 312 4,142 156 Financial information | AkzoNobel Report 2014 Goodwill and other intangibles per segment Brands with indefinite Other intangibles with finite Goodwill useful lives useful lives Total intangibles In € millions 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 Decorative Paints 22 37 1,785 1,908 319 305 2,126 2,250 Performance Coatings 663 701 – – 302 292 965 993 Specialty Chemicals 494 508 – – 321 391 815 899 Total 1,179 1,246 1,785 1,908 942 988 3,906 4,142 Average revenue growth rates per forecast period Dulux is the major brand with an indefinite useful life, due For virtually all business units, a terminal value was calcuto its global presence, high recognition and strategic lated using a long-term average market growth rate that In % per year 2015-2019 2020-2024 nature. Other intangibles include licenses, know-how, did not exceed 2 percent. The estimated pre-tax cash Decorative Paints 5.7 4.1 intellectual property rights, emission rights and developflows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax Performance Coatings 3.8 2.5 ment cost. Both at year-end 2014 and 2013, there were weighted average cost of capital. The discount rates are Specialty Chemicals 3.2 2.3 no purchase commitments for individual intangible assets. determined for each business unit and range from No intangible assets were registered as security for bank 7.4 percent to 11.3 percent, with a weighted average of loans. 8.7 percent. Impairment A sensitivity test for growth assumptions – a 50 percent Goodwill and other intangibles with indefinite useful lives reduction of the growth rate – as well as the pre-tax are tested for impairment per business unit (one level weighted average cost of capital – a one percentage point below segment level) in the fourth quarter or whenever an increase – confirms sufficient headroom in all businesses. impairment trigger exists. The impairment test is based As a result, no impairment charge was recognized in relaon cash flow projections of the five-year plan. The key tion to the annual impairment test this year. assumptions used in the projections are: • Revenue growth: based on actual experience, analysis In 2013, as a result of classifying a business as held for of market growth and the expected market share sale in Specialty Chemicals, an impairment charge of development €139 million was recognized. • Margin development: based on actual experience and management’s long-term projections Revenue growth and margin development projections are extrapolated beyond this five-year explicit forecast period for another five years with reduced growth rates. AkzoNobel Report 2014 | Financial information 157 8 Note 8: Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment Capital expenditures • In Decorative Paints, we are investing in high growth Construction in progress Assets not markets and in creating efficiency in Europe through Plant equipand prepayused in the optimization of our production footprint Buildings ment and Other ments on production • In Performance Coatings, we completed the In € millions and land machinery equipment projects process Total construction of two new production facilities that will Balance at January 1, 2013 increase our production capacity for vehicle refinishes in Cost of acquisition 2,295 5,943 818 648 30 9,734 China and powder coatings in the Middle East Accumulated depreciation/impairment (1,138) (4,223) (604) (8) (22) (5,995) • In Specialty Chemicals, we have been focusing on the Carrying value 1,157 1,720 214 640 8 3,739 Frankfurt, Germany, project to convert to membrane electrolysis technology, several asset integrity Movements in 2013 improvement projects and growth projects for specific Acquisitions through business combinations 2 1 – – – 3 segments. Overall expenditures were clearly below the Transfer to assets held for sale (23) (24) (3) (1) – (51) 2013 level Divestments (22) (33) (6) 3 (1) (59) Capital expenditures 47 178 53 387 1 666 Impairments Transfer between categories 66 267 17 (351) 1 – The 2013 impairment charges of €67 million related Depreciation (75) (321) (75) – (1) (472) to restructuring activities, mainly in Europe. In 2014, a Impairment (30) (34) (2) (1) – (67) number of small impairments and reversal of prior impairChanges in exchange rates (57) (76) (1) (35) (1) (170) ments were recorded, which on balance net out. Total movements (92) (42) (17) 2 (1) (150) Financial lease Balance at December 31, 2013 The carrying value of the property, plant and equipment Cost of acquisition 2,214 5,963 797 646 60 9,680 financed by hire purchase and leasing and not legally Accumulated depreciation/impairment (1,149) (4,285) (600) (4) (53) (6,091) owned by the company was €40 million (2013: €50 million) Carrying value at year-end 2013 1,065 1,678 197 642 7 3,589 of which €39 million is related to buildings and land and Movements in 2014 €1 million to other equipment. Transfer from/(to) assets held for sale 16 10 3 – – 29 Divestments (11) (7) (4) – – (22) Capital expenditures 44 144 40 358 2 588 Transfer between categories 54 178 38 (272) 2 – Depreciation (81) (322) (74) – – (477) (Reversal of) impairment 7 3 (2) (7) (1) – Changes in exchange rates 32 44 29 24 (1) 128 Total movements 61 50 30 103 2 246 Balance at December 31, 2014 Cost of acquisition 2,319 6,261 922 813 70 10,385 Accumulated depreciation/impairment (1,193) (4,533) (695) (68) (61) (6,550) Carrying value at year-end 2014 1,126 1,728 227 745 9 3,835 158 Financial information | AkzoNobel Report 2014 9 Note 9: Investments in associates and joint ventures 10 Note 10: Other financial non-current assets At year-end 2014, the carrying value of investments in Other financial non-current assets associates amounted to €100 million (2013: €89 million) In € millions 2013 2014 and in joint ventures €83 million (2013: €94 million). In Loans and receivables 256 232 2014, the results from associates and joint ventures Other than financial instruments 709 581 amounted to a profit of €21 million (2013: €14 million). Total 965 813 No significant contingent liabilities exist related to associates and joint ventures. The loans and receivables include the subordinated loan of The most significant associates and joint ventures of €89 million (2013: €88 million) granted to the ­­Pension Fund AkzoNobel are: Metlac Holdings Brl (49 percent), Metlac APF in the Netherlands and the non-current part of an Spa (44 percent), Delesto B.V. (50 percent), Eka Chile SA escrow account of the AkzoNobel ­­ (CPS) Pension Scheme (50 percent), Fort Amanda Specialties LLC (50 percent) in the UK amounting to €86 million (2013: €100 million), and I.C. Insurance Holdings Ltd (49 percent). invested in bonds and cash. Under certain conditions, the minimum annual funding of this pension fund from the escrow account is €31 million (£25 million). Combined information of our share in associates and joint ventures Other financial non-current assets include an amount of Associates Joint ventures €409 million related to pension plans in an asset position In € millions 2013 2014 2013 2014 (2013: €483 million). See Note 15. Condensed statement of income Revenue 101 93 268 220 Profit before tax 15 19 5 9 Profit from continuing operations 10 13 4 8 Other comprehensive income – 1 (4) 4 Total comprehensive income 10 14 – 12 Condensed balance sheet Non-current assets 53 57 59 44 Current assets 78 84 95 76 Total assets 131 141 154 120 Shareholders’ equity 89 100 94 83 Non-current liabilities 10 14 19 11 Current liabilities 32 27 41 26 Total liabilities and equity 131 141 154 120 AkzoNobel Report 2014 | Financial information 159 11 Note 11: Inventories 12 Note 12: Trade and other receivables Of the total carrying value of inventories at year-end 2014, Trade and other receivables Allowance for impairment of trade receivables €49 million is measured at net realizable value (2013: In € millions 2013 2014 In € millions 2013 2014 €67 million). In 2014, €28 million was recognized in the Trade receivables 2,086 2,246 Opening balance 100 91 statement of income for the write-down of inventories Prepaid expenses 54 63 Additions charged to income 40 35 (2013: €31 million), while €17 million of write-downs were Tax receivables other than income tax 166 164 Release of unused amounts (22) (16) reversed (2013: €26 million). There are no inventories subject to retention of title clauses. Receivables from associates and 27 35 Acquisition (1) – joint ventures Utilization (19) (19) FX and commodity contracts 15 17 Transfer to held for sale (1) – Other receivables 188 218 Inventories Currency exchange differences (6) 4 Total 2,536 2,743 Closing balance 91 95 In € millions 2013 2014 Raw materials and supplies 430 476 Work in progress 75 84 Trade receivables are presented net of an allowance for The addition to and release of the allowance for impairFinished products and goods for resale 921 985 impairment of €95 million (2013: €91 million). In 2014, ment have been included in the statement of income Total 1,426 1,545 €35 million of impairment losses were recognized in the under Selling expenses. statement of income (2013: €40 million). The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date is the carrying value of each class of receivables Ageing of trade receivables mentioned above. We do not hold any collateral for trade receivables. We do not have a significant customer In € millions 2013 2014 concentration. Performing accounts receivable 1,852 2,004 Past due accounts receivables and not impaired < 3 months 185 205 > 3 months 12 20 Impaired accounts receivables 128 112 Allowance for impairment (91) (95) Total trade receivables 2,086 2,246 With respect to the trade and other receivables that are neither impaired nor past due, there are no indications as of reporting date that the debtors will not meet their payment obligations. 160 Financial information | AkzoNobel Report 2014 13 Note 13: Cash, cash flow and net debt Cash and cash equivalents Cash flow and net debt Net debt at year-end 2014 of €1,606 million was slightly Operating activities in 2014 resulted in cash inflows of up on 2013 (€1,529 million). Cash outflows used for In € millions 2013 2014 €811 million (2013: €716 million). Profit from continuing discontinued operations of €88 million mainly related to a Cash on hand and in banks 1,333 848 operations was lower in 2014, however, the comparative settlement for a case following the divestment of Organon Short-term investments 765 884 for 2014 included a non-cash gain from deferred tax of BioSciences in 2007. Included under cash and cash 2,098 1,732 €124 million, which is reversed on the line Income tax. Net equivalents in the balance sheet cash from operating activities benefited from lower working Debt to credit institutions (78) (83) capital. Total per cash flow statement 2,020 1,649 Short-term investments almost entirely consist of cash Net debt loans, time deposits, marketable private borrowings and marketable securities immediately convertible into cash. in € millions Long-term Short-term Cash Net debt For more information on credit risk management, see Note Net debt equivalents at January 1, 2013 3,388 662 (1,752) 2,298 23. New debt issued 167 82 (249) – Redemption of loans – (594) 594 – At December 31, 2014, an amount of €95 million in cash Net cash from operating activities – – (716) (716) and cash equivalents was restricted (2013: Capital expenditures – – 666 666 €115 million). Restricted cash is defined as cash that Acquisitions and divestments – – (1,092) (1,092) cannot be accessed centrally due to regulatory or contracDividends – – 286 286 tual restrictions. Transfers from long-term to short-term (867) 867 – – Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents (9) (37) 91 45 Other changes (13) (19) 74 42 Cash flow impact on working capital Net debt equivalents at year-end 2,666 961 (2,098) 1,529 In € millions 2013 2014 Trade and other receivables (181) (113) Inventories (7) (59) Net debt Trade and other payables 175 200 Total (13) 28 in € millions Long-term Short-term Cash Net debt Net debt equivalents at January 1, 2014 2,666 961 (2,098) 1,529 New debt issued 512 474 (986) – Redemption of loans – (1,347) 1,347 – Cash flow impact of changes in provisions Net cash from operating activities – – (811) (811) In € millions 2013 2014 Capital expenditures – – 588 588 Post-retirement provisions (417) (348) Acquisitions and divestments – – 38 38 Restructuring provisions 55 16 Dividends – – 280 280 Environmental and sundry provisions (33) (74) Transfers from long-term to short-term (663) 663 – – Total (395) (406) Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents 23 – (70) (47) Other changes (11) 60 (20) 29 Changes in provisions is the balance of amounts paid and Net debt equivalents at year-end 2,527 811 (1,732) 1,606 additions/reversals during the year. In 2014, €92 million of the change in sundry provisions concerned discontinued operations. AkzoNobel Report 2014 | Financial information 161 14 Note 14: Group equity Composition of share capital at year-end 2014 Non-controlling interests Authorized Subscribed 2013 2014 In € share capital share capital Equity stake Equity stake Priority shares 19,200 19,200 Group equity Partner % € mln % € mln (48 with nominal value of €400) AkzoNobel Swire Paints (Shanghai) Limited, Swire Pacific Limited, China 30.00 167 30.00 184 Cumulative preferred shares 400,000,000 _ Shanghai, China (200 million with nominal value of €2) Akzo Nobel India Ltd, Kolkata, India Privately held, India 27.04 53 27.04 50 Common shares 1,200,000,000 492,086,188 (600 million with nominal value of €2) PT ICI Paints Indonesia, Jakarta, Indonesia PT DWI Satrya Utama, Indonesia 45.00 27 45.00 30 Total 1,600,019,200 492,105,388 ICI Paints (Malaysia) Sdn Bhd, Privately held, Malaysia 40.05 29 40.05 30 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia AkzoNobel Swire Paints (Guanzhou) Limited, Swire Pacific Limited, Industrial Devel46.00 41 46.00 53 China opment Co. Ltd of Guanzhou, China Outstanding common shares International Paint (Korea) Ltd, Busan, Noroo Holdings, South Korea 40.00 19 40.00 19 South Korea Number of shares 2013 2014 Kayaku Akzo Corp, Tokyo Japan Nippon Kayaku Co., Ltd., Japan 25.00 8 25.00 8 Outstanding at January 1 239,047,452 242,625,535 Akzo Nobel Kemipol AS, Izmir, Turkey Privately held, Turkey 49.00 15 49.00 18 Issued in connection to stock 3,578,083 3,417,559 Marshall Boya, Dilovasi-Kocaeli, Turkey Marshall Employees' Foundation, 11.75 5 11.75 5 options exercised and performance Privately held, Turkey shares granted AkzoNobel Boya Sanayi ve Ticaret A.S. (PC), Privately held, Turkey 25.00 4 25.00 5 Balance at year-end 242,625,535 246,043,094 Izmir, Turkey Akzo Nobel Pakistan Limited, Lahore, Privately held, Pakistan 24.19 9 24.19 10 Pakistan Akzo Nobel Oman SAOC, Oman Omar Zawawi establishment LLC, 50.00 10 50.00 13 Weighted average number of shares Oman Others 40 52 Number of shares 2013 2014 Total 427 477 Issued common shares at 239,047,452 242,625,535 January 1 Issued common shares during 2,180,576 2,033,094 the year Shares for basic earnings per 241,228,028 244,658,629 Subscribed share capital hedge the net investments in a foreign subsidiary. share for the year For further details on subscribed share capital, see Tax related to exchange differences arising on translation Note E in the Company financial statements. of foreign operations was €16 million negative Effect of dilutive shares (2013: €7 million negative). For stock options 5,647 – Other components of shareholders’ equity For performance-related shares 2,060,997 1,410,341 Changes in fair value of derivatives comprise the effective Equity-settled transactions include the stock option For share-matching plan 14,825 20,801 portion of the cumulative net change in the fair value of program and the performance-related share plan Shares for diluted earnings 243,309,497 246,089,771 cash flow hedging instruments related to hedged transacwhereby options or shares are granted to the Board per share tions that have not yet occurred. Tax related to cash flow of Management, Executive Committee and other execuhedges was €nil (2013: €nil). tives. For details of the share-based compensation, see Note 4. Tax related to equity-settled transactions was €nil Cumulative translation reserves comprise all foreign in 2014 (2013: €3 million positive). exchange differences arising from the translation of the financial statements of foreign operations, as well Non-controlling interests as from the translation of intercompany loans with None of the non-controlling interests are considered india permanent nature and liabilities and derivatives that vidually material to the group. 162 Financial information | AkzoNobel Report 2014 15 Note 15: Post-retirement benefit provisions Post-retirement benefit provisions relate to defined benefit The most significant risks that we run in relation to defined funding deficits. In March 2014, the Trustee of ICIPF pension and other post-retirement benefits, including benefit plans are that investment returns fall short of entered into two annuity buy-in agreements in line with healthcare or welfare plans. We have a number of defined expectations, a decline in discount rates, that inflation their ongoing strategy of de-risking which is supported benefit pension plans. The largest pension plans are the exceeds expectations, and that retirees live longer than by AkzoNobel. The two agreements are with Legal & ICI Pension Fund (ICIPF) and the AkzoNobel Pension expected. The assets and liabilities of each of the funded General plc and Prudential Retirement Income Limited Scheme (CPS) in the UK which together account for plans are held outside of the company in a trust or a and covered, in aggregate, £3.6 billion (€4.3 billion) of 83 percent of defined benefit obligations (DBO) and foundation, which is governed by a board of fiduciaries pensioner liabilities, which is broadly equivalent to one 91 percent of plan assets. Other pension plans include or trustees, depending on the legal arrangements in the quarter of our pension liabilities and one third of the ICIPF the largely unfunded plans in Germany, the plans in the country concerned. The primary objective with regard to liabilities. The buy-ins involved the purchase of bulk annuity US and certain other smaller plans in the UK. The benefits the investment of pension plan assets is to ensure that policies under which the insurers will pay to ICIPF amounts of these pension plans are based primarily on years of each individual plan has sufficient funds available to satisfy equivalent to the benefits payable to a subset of current service and employees’ compensation. The funding future benefit obligations in accordance with local legal pensioners. The pension liabilities remain with ICIPF and policy for the plans is consistent with local requirements and legislative requirements. For this purpose, we work the matching annuity policies are held within ICIPF. The in the countries of establishment. We also provide certain closely with plan trustees or fiduciaries to develop strategic accounting impact of the transaction is a lower valuation of healthcare and life insurance benefits to retired employees, asset allocation strategies. Asset liability modeling (ALM) the plan assets giving a reduction in Other comprehensive mainly in the US and the Netherlands. studies are carried out periodically to analyze and underincome of £640 million (€773 million). The Trustee of ICIPF stand the trade-off between expected investment returns, transacted a further, smaller buy-in in November 2014 with Valuations of the obligations under the plans are carried volatility of outcomes and the impact on cash contribuPrudential Retirement Income Limited covering out regularly by independent qualified actuaries. We tions. We aim to strike a cautious balance between these £0.3 billion (€0.4 billion) of pensions liabillities giving a accrue for the expected costs of providing such postfactors in order to agree affordable contribution schedules reduction in Other comprehensive income of £55 million retirement benefits during the service years of the employwith plan fiduciaries. Plan assets principally consist of (€68 million). By purchasing these bulk annuities, the ees. Governance of the benefit plans is the responsibility of long-term interest-earning investments, insurance policies Trustee has taken a significant step in actively de-risking the ExCo Pensions Committee. This committee provides and (investment funds with holdings primarily in) quoted liabilities and reducing the risk that AkzoNobel will be oversight of the costs and risks of the plans including overequity securities. Our largest plans use derivatives (such required to contribute additional cash in the future. sight of the impact of the plans on the company in terms as index futures, currency forward contracts and swaps) of cash flow, pension expenses and the balance sheet, by to reduce volatility of underlying variables, for efficient The remaining pension plans primarily represent defined the development and maintenance of policies on benefit portfolio management and to improve the liability matchcontribution plans. This includes, among others, the design, funding, asset allocation and assumption setting. ing characteristics of the assets. Limits have been set on Pension Fund APF in the Netherlands and the 401k Plan the use of derivatives which are periodically subject to in the US. The ITP2 plan in Sweden is financed through Pension plans review for compliance with the pension fund’s investment insurance with the Alecta insurance company and is clasAlmost all of the defined benefit plans have been closed strategy. ICIPF invested in annuity contracts in 2014 that sified as a multi-employer defined benefit plan. AkzoNobel to new members since the early to mid-2000s, although aim to hedge all key risks related to a certain part of the does not have access to sufficient information from Alecta in many plans long-serving employees continue to accrue pensioner population and CPS has an insurance contract to enable a defined benefit accounting treatment and benefits. For plans in the US, benefit accrual is frozen with SwissRe to hedge longevity risk in respect of a hence it is accounted for as a defined contribution plan. and employees participate in defined contribution plans portion of its pensioners. Contributions in 2014 were €10 million (2013: €10 million). for future service. In countries where plans are closed, Alecta’s target funding ratio in 2014 was 140 percent new employees are eligible to join a defined contribution In line with our proactive pension risk management although the most recently quoted ratio at September arrangement. In countries in high growth markets, pension strategy, we seek to reduce risk in our pension plans over 2014 stood at 146 percent. There are also a small number schemes currently are not material. Unless mandated by time. We continue to evaluate different potential de-risking of multi-employer plans in the US and Germany in which law, it is our policy that any new plans are established as strategies and opportunities on an ongoing basis. Some AkzoNobel participates with annual contributions in each defined contribution plans. future de-risking transactions may have both cash flow case totaling less than €1 million. These are also accountand balance sheet impacts which may be substantial, as ed for as defined contribution plans. The expenses of have some of the de-risking actions already taken. The plans classified as defined contribution plans in AkzoNobel cost of fully removing risk would likely exceed estimated totaled €145 million in 2014 (2013: €172 million). AkzoNobel Report 2014 | Financial information 163 Other post-retirement benefit plans Reconciliation balance sheet AkzoNobel provides certain healthcare and life insurance 2013 2014 benefits to retired employees, mainly in the US and the Plan Plan In € millions DBO assets Total DBO assets Total Netherlands. The risks to which the US healthcare plans Balance at the beginning of the period (16,674) 15,378 (1,296) (15,188) 14,248 (940) expose AkzoNobel include the risk of future increases in the cost of healthcare which would increase the cost of Statement of income maintaining the plans. The benefit payments to retirees Current service cost (68) – (68) (57) – (57) under the Dutch plan are frozen. Both plans expose Past service cost/curtailments 13 – 13 (2) – (2) AkzoNobel to the risk of a further decline in long-term Settlements 584 (602) (18) – – – corporate bond rates, which increases the plan obligaNet (interest)/income on net defined benefit (liability)/asset (602) 581 (21) (643) 625 (18) tions, and longevity risk as the plans generally pay lifetime Cost recognized in statement of income (73) (21) (94) (702) 625 (77) benefits. Remeasurements Actuarial gain/(loss) due to liability experience (92) – (92) 68 – 68 Actuarial gain/(loss) due to liability financial assumptions changes 9 – 9 (1,469) – (1,469) Actuarial gain/(loss) due to liability demographics assumptions changes 17 – 17 132 – 132 Actuarial loss due to buy-in – – – – (841) (841) Return on plan assets greater/(less) than discount rate – (128) (128) – 1,528 1,528 Remeasurement effects recognized in Other comprehensive income (66) (128) (194) (1,269) 687 (582) Cash flow Employer contributions – 568 568 – 425 425 Employee contributions (5) 5 – (4) 4 – Benefits and administration costs paid from plan assets 962 (962) – 948 (948) – Net cash flow 957 (389) 568 944 (519) 425 Other Acquisitions/divestments/transfers 319 (266) 53 10 (10) – Changes in exchange rates 349 (326) 23 (960) 958 (2) Total other 668 (592) 76 (950) 948 (2) Balance at the end of the period (15,188) 14,248 (940) (17,165) 15,989 (1,176) Asset restriction – – (2) – – (2) Medicare receivable – – (2) – – (3) Net balance sheet provision (15,188) 14,248 (944) (17,165) 15,989 (1,181) In the balance sheet under Other financial non-current assets 483 409 Post-retirement benefit provisions (1,237) (1,488) Current portion of provisions (184) (102) Liabilities held for sale (6) – Net balance sheet provision (944) (1,181) 164 Financial information | AkzoNobel Report 2014 In addition to the expenses borne by the funds themDBO at funded and unfunded pension plans benefits are available in the form of future refunds from the selves, some expenses are borne directly by AkzoNobel. plan or reductions in future contributions to the plan, either In € millions 2013 2014 Administrative expenses are incurred, especially for the UK during the life of the plan or on the (final) settlement of the Wholly or partly funded plans 14,591 16,481 pension funds, of €17 million (2013: €12 million), which plan liabilities. Unfunded plans 295 350 are included in Operating income. In addition, we directly Total 14,886 16,831 incurred asset management expenses of €7 million (2013: Cash flows €6 million), which have been included in Other comprehenIn 2015, we expect to contribute €431 million to our sive income. defined benefit pension plans. This includes €99 million of regular pension contributions and €332 million for top-ups, Interest costs on DBO for both pensions and other postof which £25 million (€32 million) will be paid out of the retirement benefits together with the interest income on CPS escrow account (see explanation in Key plan details). plan assets comprise the net financing expenses related to We expect to pay a further €24 million for other postpensions of €18 million (2013: €21 million), see Note 5. retirement benefit plans. No allowance is made for any special one-off contributions that may arise in relation to new de-risking opportunities. Plan assets The figures in the table below are the estimated future 2013 2014 benefit payments to be paid from the plans to beneficiaries In € millions Total Percentage of total Total Percentage of total over the next ten years. Equities 1,824 13 1,566 10 Debt fixed interest government bonds 2,635 18 1,222 8 Future benefit payments Debt index-linked government bonds 2,816 20 3,701 23 Other postDebt corporate and other bonds 4,339 30 1,645 10 retirement Insurance contracts 213 1 4,405 28 In € millions Pensions benefits Cash and cash equivalents 1,117 8 1,516 9 2015 970 24 2016 964 24 Other 1,304 10 1,934 12 2017 968 24 Total 14,248 100 15,989 100 2018 973 23 2019 980 23 2020-2024 4,993 106 The equities and debt assets in the table above have In the US, the Medicare Prescription Drug Improvement quoted prices in active markets, although most are held and Modernization Act of 2003 introduced prescription through funds comprised of such instruments which are drug benefits for retirees, as well as a federal subsidy not actively traded themselves. Other plan assets include to sponsors of post-retirement healthcare plans, which certain assets that are not quoted in active markets, such both began on January 1, 2006. We have recognized this as real estate, insurance policies and private equity. reimbursement right as an asset under Other financial nonOther assets included unquoted securities totaling current assets, measured at fair value amounting to €654 million (2013: €531 million), of which €314 million €3 million (2013: €2 million). is invested in real estate (2013: €229 million). Plan assets did not directly include any of AkzoNobel’s own transferPension balances recorded under Other financial nonable financial instruments, nor any property occupied by or current assets totaled €409 million (2013: €483 million) assets used by the company. could be recognized under IFRIC14 because economic AkzoNobel Report 2014 | Financial information 165 Key figures and assumptions by plan 2013 2014 Other postOther postICIPF CPS Other pension retirement ICIPF CPS Other pension retirement In € millions or % UK UK plans benefits Total UK UK plans benefits Total Percentage of total DBO 63% 20% 15% 2% 62% 21% 15% 2% Defined Benefit Obligation at year-end (9,576) (3,051) (2,259) (302) (15,188) (10,633) (3,548) (2,650) (334) (17,165) Fair value of plan assets at year-end 10,007 2,941 1,300 – 14,248 10,870 3,606 1,513 – 15,989 Plan funded status 431 (110) (959) (302) (940) 237 58 (1,137) (334) (1,176) Restriction on asset recognition – – (2) – (2) – – (2) – (2) Medicare receivable – – – (2) (2) – – – (3) (3) Amounts recognized on the balance sheet 431 (110) (961) (304) (944) 237 58 (1,139) (337) (1,181) Percentage of total current service cost 13% 22% 57% 8% 16% 22% 55% 7% Current service cost 9 15 38 6 68 9 13 31 4 57 Employer contributions 170 91 281 26 568 230 93 79 23 425 Discount rate 4.3% 4.4% 3.9% 4.2% 4.2% 3.4% 3.6% 2.8% 3.3% 3.4% Rate of compensation increase 4.3% 4.4% 2.9% – 4.1% 3.9% 4.0% 2.7% – 3.8% Inflation 3.3% 3.4% 2.1% – 3.2% 2.9% 3.0% 2.0% – 2.8% Pension increases 3.1% 2.4% 1.9% – 2.7% 2.8% 2.1% 2.1% – 2.5% Healthcare cost trend rate for next year – – – 5.5% 5.5% – – – 5.3% 5.3% Rate to which cost trend rate is assumed to decline – – – 3.8% 3.8% – – – 3.9% 3.9% Year that rate reaches the ultimate trend – – – 2019-2032 2019-2032 – – – 2019-2032 2019-2032 Life expectancy (in years) Currently aged 60 Males 26.8 26.7 25.0 24.9 26.5 26.7 26.8 25.2 24.8 26.5 Females 29.3 28.4 28.1 26.7 28.9 29.0 28.4 28.3 26.7 28.7 Currently aged 45, from age 60 Males 28.0 27.9 26.6 26.0 27.7 27.8 28.0 26.8 26.1 27.7 Females 30.5 29.6 29.6 27.3 30.1 30.3 29.7 29.8 27.6 30.0 166 Financial information | AkzoNobel Report 2014 Sensitivity of DBO to change in assumptions Other postICIPF CPS Other retirement In € millions UK UK pension plans benefits Total Discount rate: 0.5% decrease 747 323 202 18 1,290 Price inflation: 0.5% increase 1 446 204 115 – 765 Life expectancy: one year increase from age 60 489 123 77 11 700 Healthcare cost trend rate: 0.5% increase – – – 4 4 Maturity information Weighted average duration of DBO (years) 13.4 17.3 15.1 10.5 14.4 1 The sensitivity to price inflation assumption includes corresponding changes to all inflation-related assumption compensation increases, pensions in payment and pensions in determent. The effect on DBO shown allows for an alternative value on the total DBO. Furthermore, the analysis does not for each assumption while the other actuarial assumptions indicate a probability of such changes occurring and it remain unchanged. While this table illustrates the overall does not necessarily represent our view of expected future impact on DBO of the changes shown, the significance of changes in DBO. Any management actions that may be the impact and the range of reasonably possible alternataken to mitigate the inherent risks in the post-retirement tive assumptions may differ between the different plans defined benefit plans or changes in asset values are not that comprise the total DBO; in particular the plans differ reflected in this analysis. in benefit design, currency and average term, meaning that different assumptions have different levels of signifiThe sensitivities in the table only apply to the DBO and cance for each plan. The sensitivity analysis is intended not to the net amounts recognized in the balance sheet. to illustrate the inherent uncertainty in the valuation of the Movements in the fair value of plan assets would, to a DBO under market conditions at the measurement date. significant extent, be expected to offset movements in the Its results cannot be extrapolated due to non-linear effects DBO resulting from changes in the given assumptions. that changes in the key actuarial assumptions may have AkzoNobel Report 2014 | Financial information 167 Key plan details for the two largest pension plans ICI Pension Fund, UK (ICIPF) AkzoNobel (CPS) Pension Scheme, UK (CPS) Type of plan Defined benefit, based upon years of service and final salary Defined benefit, based upon years of service and final salary Benefits Retirement pension for employee Retirement pension for employee Dependents’ pensions on death of employee/pensioner Dependents’ pensions on death of employee/pensioner Options for ill health early retirement Options for ill health early retirement Pension increases (main benefit section) Annually linked to UK RPI with a maximum of 5 percent Annually linked to UK CPI with a maximum of 5 percent Plan structure Plans are set up under a trust and are tax approved Plans are set up under a trust and are tax approved Governance Trustee directors: Trustee directors: Five members nominated Four members nominated One independent (Law Debenture) Four companies nominated Five appointed with the agreement of Law Debenture One independent (Law Debenture) Regulatory framework The plans are tax approved and assets are held in trust for the benefit of participants. The trustees have a legal duty to manage the trust in the best interests of participants. Investment strategy is controlled by the trustees in consultation with the company Funding basis A plan specific basis must be agreed with each trustee board in accordance with UK regulations. The basis is not the same as the IFRS calculation as it uses more prudent assumptions about life expectancy and the discount rates reflect prudent estimates of the expected return on assets actually held, thus the trustees’ investment strategies will impact the discounted value of liabilities Frequency of funding reviews Every three years Every three years Latest valuation March 31, 2011 March 31, 2012 Funding deficit at latest valuation £1.0 billion (€1.3 billion) £220 million (€282 million) allowing for the escrow account Recovery plan £178.5 million (€229 million) per annum to 2017 inclusive paid in £42 million (€54 million) per annum to 2018 inclusive, plus £25 million January each year. As a result of the 2014 buy-in transactions a one(€32 million) per annum to 2017 from the escrow account paid in time additional £125 million (€160 million) will likely be added as part March each year of the next valuation. Next funding review March 31, 2014 March 31, 2015 Estimated funding deficit at December 31, 2014 £0.85 billion (€1.1 billion) (2013: £1.1 billion (€1.3 billion)) £0.2 billion (€0.26 billion) (2013: £0.25 billion (€0.30 billion)) Estimated solvency deficit at March 31, 2013 £2.2 billion (€2.8 billion) £1.6 billion (€2.0 billion) Strategic asset allocation Matching 80% 58% Return seeking 20% 42% Other Buy-in annuity contracts cover 49% of pensioner liabilities Longevity hedge contract covers 40% of pensioner liabilities Escrow account Not applicable Pre-funded account established in 2007 to fund existing deficit. It pays a minimum of £25 million per annum to CPS until it is exhausted (no later than 2017). Value at year-end 2014 is £93 million (€119 million) Membership at March 31, 2014 Active 417 624 Deferred 9,816 9,782 Pensioner 47,586 19,803 Total 57,819 30,209 168 Financial information | AkzoNobel Report 2014 16 Note 16: Other provisions 17 Note 17: Long-term borrowings Movements in other provisions Long-term borrowings In € millions 2013 2014 Restructuring Bonds issued 2,458 2,351 In € millions of activities Environmental costs Sundry Total Debt to credit institutions 48 44 Balance at January 1, 2014 236 329 553 1,118 Other borrowings 160 132 Additions made during the year 179 13 111 303 Total 2,666 2,527 Utilization (144) (28) (210) (382) Amounts reversed during the year (19) (20) (32) (71) Unwind of discount 2 13 17 32 The amounts due within one year are presented under Transfer to/(from) liabilities held for sale – 6 (1) 5 short-term borrowings. For details on the exposure to Changes in exchange rates 5 13 24 42 interest rate and foreign currency risk, see Note 23. During Balance at December 31, 2014 259 326 462 1,047 2014, the average effective interest rate on debt issued was 4.9 percent (2013: 5.3 percent). Non-current portion of provisions 70 282 303 655 Current portion of provisions 189 44 159 392 Bonds issued Balance at December 31, 2014 259 326 462 1,047 In € millions 2013 2014 7 1/4% 2009/15 (€621 million) 626 – 8% 2009/16 (£250 million) 299 320 Provisions for restructuring of activities Sundry provisions 4% 2011/18 (€800 million) 793 794 Provisions for restructuring of activities comprise accruals Sundry provisions relate to a great variety of risks and for certain employee benefits and for costs which are commitments, including provisions for claims, antitrust 2 5/8% 2012/22 (€750 million) 740 741 directly associated with plans to exit or cease specific cases and other long-term employee benefits, such as 1 3/4% 2014/24 (€500 million) – 496 activities and closing down of facilities. For all restructuring long-service leave and jubilee payments. Total 2,458 2,351 provisions a detailed formal plan exists and the imple­ men­tation of the plan has started or the plan has been The majority of the cash outflows related to sundry announced before the balance sheet date. Most restrucprovisions are expected to be within one to five years. In Aggregated maturities of long-term borrowings turing plans are expected to be completed within two calculating the sundry provisions, a pre-tax discount rate In € millions 2016 – 2019 After 2019 years from the balance sheet date. of on average 2.8 percent has been used. Bonds issued 1,114 1,237 Debt to credit institutions 32 12 Provisions for environmental costs Current portion of provisions Other borrowings 81 51 For details on environmental exposures, see Note 20. Current portion of post-retirement benefit provisions (€102 million) and other provisions (€392 million) adds up Total 1,227 1,300 to €494 million (2013: €601 million). AkzoNobel Report 2014 | Financial information 169 18 Note 18: Short-term borrowings 19 Note 19: Trade and other payables We have a €1.8 billion multi-currency revolving credit Short-term borrowings Trade and other payables facility, which was extended in 2013 by an additional year In € millions 2013 2014 In € millions 2013 2014 to 2018. At year-end 2014 and 2013, this facility had not Debt to credit institutions 78 83 Suppliers 1,944 2,149 been drawn. At year-end 2014 and 2013, none of the Current portion of long-term 883 662 Amounts payable to employees 361 367 borrowings was secured by collateral. borrowings FX and commodity contracts 42 45 Other borrowings – 66 Taxes and social security contributions 216 231 In November 2014, a bond was issued with a nominal Total 961 811 Customer-related payables 184 224 value of €500 million maturing in 2024 at a coupon rate of 1.75 percent. Dividends 14 14 In January 2014, a bond of €825 million matured. In Payable to associates and joint 32 13 ventures Financial lease liabilities are included in Other borrowings March 2015 a bond totaling €621 million will mature and is Other liabilities 425 364 and aggregated €49 million (2013: €51 million). An amount classified as a short-term borrowing. Total 3,218 3,407 of €6 million (2013: €6 million) will mature within one year and €18 million will mature in the period 2016 through We have US dollar and euro commercial paper programs 2019 and €25 million after 2019. in place, which can be used to the extent that the equivalent portion of the €1.8 billion multi-currency revolving credit facility is not used. We had no commercial paper outstanding at year-end 2014 and 2013. 170 Financial information | AkzoNobel Report 2014 20 Note 20: Contingent liabilities and commitments Environmental matters This claim is disputed. In 2014, a provision was taken in could be material to our results of operations or cash flows We are confronted with substantial costs arising out of anticipation of an agreement on the settlement of proceedin any one accounting period. environmental laws and regulations, which include obligaings initiated by CDC Project 13 SA in relation to the tions to eliminate or limit the effects on the environment of Sodium Chlorate infringements in the 1990s. An appeal Commitments the disposal or release of certain wastes or substances at by the company is pending with the General Court against Purchase commitments for property, plant and various sites. Proceedings involving environmental matters, the decision by the European Commission to impose fines equipment aggregated €44 million (2013: €93 million). such as the alleged discharge of chemicals or waste on the company for violations of EU competition laws materials into the air, water, or soil, are pending against regarding Heat Stabilizers. Lease payments during 2014 amounted to €112 million us in various countries. In some cases, this concerns (2013: €127 million). sites divested in prior years or derelict sites belonging to AkzoNobel has provided various indemnities and guarcompanies acquired in the past. antees in respect of past divestments to the relevant purchasers and their permitted assigns (if applicable), Maturity operational lease contracts It is our policy to accrue and charge against earnings enviwhich in general are capped in time and/or amount (in In € millions 2013 2014 ronmental clean-up costs when it is probable that a liability proportion to the value received). The provided guarantees Payments due within one year 106 103 has materialized and an amount is reliably estimable. and indemnities have varying maturity periods. Payments between one and five years 215 205 These accruals are reviewed periodically and adjusted, if AkzoNobel has received various claims under such indemPayments due after more than five years 126 103 necessary, as assessments and clean-ups proceed and nities and guarantees. In some instances, AkzoNobel has additional information becomes available. Environmental been named as a direct defendant despite the divestTotal 447 411 liabilities can change substantially due to the emergence ments. Regarding the Organon BioSciences divestment to of additional information on the nature or extent of the Schering-Plough in 2007, all pending material claims have Guarantees related to associates and joint ventures at contamination, the geological circumstances, the necessity been solved in 2014. year-end 2014 totaled €9 million (2013: €9 million). of employing particular methods of remediation, actions by governmental agencies or private parties, or other factors. A number of other claims are pending, all of which are Cash expenditures often lag behind the period in which an contested. We are also involved in disputes with tax accrual is recorded by a number of years. authorities in several jurisdictions. The provisions for environmental costs amounted to Provisions are recognized when an outflow of economic €326 million at year-end 2014 (2013: €329 million). The benefits for settlement is probable and the amount can provision has been discounted using an average pre-tax be reliably estimated. It should be understood that, in light discount rate of 3.3 percent (2013: 3.9 percent). While it of possible future developments, such as (a) potential is not feasible to predict the outcome of all pending enviadditional lawsuits, (b) possible future settlements, and (c) ronmental exposures, it is reasonably possible that there rulings or judgments in pending lawsuits, certain cases will be a need for future provisions for environmental costs may result in additional liabilities and related costs. At this which, in management’s opinion, based on information point in time, we cannot estimate any additional amount currently available, would not have a material effect on the of loss or range of loss in excess of the recorded amounts company’s financial position but could be material to the with sufficient certainty to allow such amount or range of company’s results of operations in any one accounting amounts to be meaningful. Moreover, if and to the extent period. that the contingent liabilities materialize, they are typically paid over a number of years and the timing of such Claims and litigations payments cannot be predicted with confidence. While AkzoNobel is – together with others – involved in civil the outcome of said cases, claims and disputes cannot proceedings initiated by Cartel Damages Claims be predicted with certainty, we believe, based upon legal HP SA/NV before the Dortmund Court in Germany in relaadvice and information received, that the final outcome will tion to the Hydrogen Peroxide infringement in the 1990s. not materially affect our consolidated financial position but AkzoNobel Report 2014 | Financial information 171 21 Note 21: Related party transactions 22 Note 22: Remuneration of the Supervisory Board and the Board of Management We purchased and sold goods and services to various Total compensation to key management personnel receive an attendance fee dependent on the country of related parties in which we hold a 50 percent or less equity amounted to €10.8 million (2013: €15.4 million). An residence. Members who are resident in the Netherlands interest (associates and joint ventures). Such transactions amount of €2.6 million relates to short-term employee do not receive an attendance fee except for meetings held were conducted at arm’s length with terms comparable benefits (2013: €7.0 million); €1.0 million to post-contract outside the Netherlands. with transactions with third parties. In 2014, a significant benefits and other post-contract compensation (2013: related party transaction was a €65 million gas supply €1.2 million); and €2.7 million to share-based compenIn accordance with the Articles of Association and good (2013: €99 million) to Delesto, a joint venture of sation (2013: €5.8 million). The members of the Execucorporate governance practice, the remuneration of AkzoNobel and Essent. Delesto transforms gas into tive Committee that are not a member of the Board of Supervisory Board members is not dependent on the steam and electricity. The steam is used in our production Management are included in key management personnel. results of the company. processes and the electricity is sold to the market. We do not grant share-based compensation to our SuperDuring 2014, we considered the members of the ExecuSupervisory Board visory Board members, neither do we provide loans. Travel tive Committee and the Supervisory Board to be the key expenses and facilities for members of the Supervisory management personnel as defined in IAS 24 “Related Members of the Supervisory Board receive a fixed remuBoard are borne by the company and reviewed by the parties”. For details on their remuneration, as well as on neration: €130,000 for the Chairman, €78,000 for the Audit Committee. The shares in the company owned by shares and options held by members of the Supervisory Deputy Chairman and €65,000 for the other members (as Supervisory Board members serve as a long-term investBoard or Board of Management, see Note 22. In the of May 1, 2014). Members of committees receive an extra ment in the company. ordinary course of business, we have transactions with compensation. Members living outside the Netherlands various organizations with which certain of the members of the Supervisory Board or Executive Committee are associated, but no related party transactions were effected in Supervisory Board 2014. Likewise, there have not been any transactions with Total Committee Employer’s Total members of the Supervisory Board or Executive Commitremuneration Remuneration Attendance fee allowance fees charges remuneration tee, any other senior management personnel or any In € 2013 2014 family member of such persons. Also no loans have been Antony Burgmans, Chairman 1 70,000 103,333 2,500 18,333 – 124,166 extended to members of the Supervisory Board or ExecuSari Baldauf 77,500 60,000 15,000 16,667 – 91,667 tive Committee, any other senior management personnel Dolf van den Brink 2 75,000 60,000 2,500 23,333 – 85,833 or any family member of such persons. For related party Peggy Bruzelius 97,300 60,000 17,500 18,333 20,642 116,475 transactions with pension funds, see Notes 10 and 15. For Uwe-Ernst Bufe, Deputy Chairman 77,500 72,000 15,000 – – 87,000 receivables from and payables to related party transacPeter Ellwood 3 86,400 16,667 7,500 5,000 1,530 30,697 tions, see Notes 12 and 19. Byron Grote 4 – 43,333 10,000 13,333 – 66,666 Louis Hughes 98,900 60,000 30,000 18,333 3,900 112,233 Ben Verwaayen 80,500 60,000 12,500 13,333 3,900 89,733 Karel Vuursteen 3 123,900 33,333 – 5,000 1,930 40,263 Total 787,000 568,666 112,500 131,665 31,902 844,733 1 Chairman as from April 29, 2014. 2 Until December 22, 2014. 3 Until April 29, 2014. 4 As from April 29, 2014. 172 Financial information | AkzoNobel Report 2014 Shares held by the members of the Supervisory Other short-term benefits Board Board of Management Other short-term benefits include employer’s charges and other compensations. Employer’s charges refer to social Number of shares at year-end 2013 2014 The individual contracts of the members of the Board of contributions and healthcare contributions. The social Antony Burgmans 500 500 Management are determined by the Supervisory Board charges of Mr. Nichols (€278,700) related to employer’s Sari Baldauf – – within the framework of the remuneration policy adopted contribution in the UK. The other costs for Mr. Nichols Uwe-Ernst Bufe 500 500 by the Annual General Meeting of shareholders. We do not (€36,800) related to home allowances. Peggy Bruzelius 500 500 provide loans to members of the Board of Management. Byron Grote 1 – 392 For more detailed information on the decisions of the Post-contract compensation Louis Hughes 538 548 Supervisory Board with respect to the individual contracts This refers to compensation intended for building up Ben Verwaayen – – of the members of the Board of Management, see the retirement benefits instead of pension contributions. The 1 In the form of ADRs. Remuneration report. compensation is based on age and is calculated over the 2014 remuneration. For the CEO, the contributions are Short-term incentive paid over the base salary in the current year and the shortThe short-term incentives for 2014 are linked to ROI term incentive of the previous year. The contributions will (20 percent), OPI (20 percent), OCF (30 percent) and the therefore vary depending on the performance during the individual and qualitative targets of the members of the previous year and the age of the Board member. For the Board of Management (30 percent). For more information, CFO, these contributions are paid on base salary only. see the Remuneration report. Share-based compensation The costs for share-based compensation are non-cash and related to the performance-related share plan and the share-matching plan following IFRS 2. The fair value of the performance-related share plan at grant date is amortized as a charge against income over the three-year Board remuneration 2013 vesting period. The fair value amounted to €44.60 per Short-term Other short-term Post-contract Share-based Total performance-related share conditionally granted in 2014 In € Salary incentives benefits compensation compensation remuneration for those members of the Board of Management facing a Ton Büchner 820,000 630,900 8,100 291,600 807,700 2,558,300 two-year holding restriction (2013: €42.30), and €54.55 for Keith Nichols 616,000 308,100 302,500 221,800 857,900 2,306,300 those members whose holding restriction will lapse after Total 1,436,000 939,000 310,600 513,400 1,665,600 4,864,600 the end of their term (2013: €52.15). The fair value for the shares related to the share-matching plan amounted to €49.96 (2013: €40.67). Board remuneration 2014 Short-term Other short-term Post-contract Share-based Total In € Salary ­incentives 3 benefits compensation compensation ­remuneration Ton Büchner 834,000 783,000 8,500 325,000 1,233,100 3,183,600 Maëlys Castella 1 176,800 106,100 5,400 28,800 – 317,100 Keith Nichols 2 308,000 308,000 315,500 147,900 (766,000) 313,400 Total 1,318,800 1,197,100 329,400 501,700 467,100 3,814,100 1 As from September 15, 2014. 2 Until June 30, 2014. 3 This concerns the short-term incentive amounts over 2014, to be paid in 2015. AkzoNobel Report 2014 | Financial information 173 Performance-related shares Number of performance-related shares With regard to the performance-related shares granted to Balance at Balance at Vested on the members of the Board of Management in 2012, the January 1, Granted Vested Forfeited Dividend December January 1, final vesting percentage of the series 2012-2014 equaled Series 2014 in 2014 in 2014 in 2014 in 2014 31, 2014 2015 75.00 percent (series 2011-2013: 70.83 percent), includTon Büchner 2012 – 2014 34,066 – – (8,517) 679 26,228 26,228 ing dividend shares 82.22 percent (series 2011-2013: 2013 – 2015 24,907 – – – 661 25,568 – 77.98 percent). The members of the Board of Manage2013 – 2016 – 22,300 – – 592 22,892 – ment will retain the shares for a minimum period of two years after vesting or (if shorter) for the duration of their Keith Nichols 2011 – 2013 14,504 – (14,504) – – – – tenure as member of the Board of Management. 2012 – 2014 25,523 – – (25,523) – – – 2013 – 2015 18,731 – – (18,731) – – – Share-matching plan The CEO is required to build up, over a five-year period from the date of appointment, and then hold, at least three times his gross base salary in AkzoNobel shares for Number of potential matching shares the duration of their tenure as member of the Board of Management. For other Board of Management members, Year of share Potential Matched Forfeited Balance at investment match in 2014 in 2014 year-end 2014 the requirement is at least one time their gross base salary. Ton Büchner 2012 11,582 – – 11,582 Under certain conditions, members who invest part of their 2013 1,429 – – 1,429 short-term incentives in AkzoNobel shares may have such 2014 2,450 – – 2,450 shares matched by the company. See the Remuneration report. Shares held by the Board of Management Former members of the Board of Number of shares at year-end 2013 2014 Management Ton Büchner 16,243 21,901 In 2014, charges for former members of the Board of Management amounted to €2.5 million (2013: €4.8 million) mainly due to accrued taxation on excessive pay (‘Belastingheffing excessieve beloningsbestanddelen’). 174 Financial information | AkzoNobel Report 2014 23 Note 23: Financial risk management Maturity of liabilities and cash outflows Financial risk management Credit risk management framework Less than Between 1 Over Credit risk arises from financial assets such as cash and In € millions 1 year and 5 years 5 years Our activities expose us to a variety of financial risks: cash equivalents, derivative financial instruments with a market risk (including: currency risk, fair value interest At December 31, 2013 positive fair value, deposits with financial institutions, and rate risk and price risk), credit risk and liquidity risk. These Borrowings 955 1,841 779 trade receivables. We have a credit risk management risks are inherent to the way we operate as a multinational Interest on borrowings 134 269 70 policy in place to limit credit losses due to non-perforwith a large number of locally operating subsidiaries. Our Finance lease liabilities 6 18 28 mance of financial counterparties and customers. We overall risk management program seeks to identify, assess, Trade and other payables 3,218 – – monitor our exposure to credit risk on an ongoing basis and – if necessary – mitigate these financial risks in order at various levels. We only deal with financial counterparFX contracts (hedges) to minimize potential adverse effects on our financial ties that have a sufficiently high credit rating. Generally, Outflow 2,433 – – performance. Our risk mitigating activities include the we do not require collateral in respect of financial assets. Inflow (2,431) – – use of derivative financial instruments to hedge certain Investments in cash and cash equivalents and transacrisk exposures. The Board of Management is ultimately Other derivatives tions involving derivative financial instruments are entered responsible for risk management. We centrally identify, Outflow 15 11 – into with counterparties that have sound credit ratings and evaluate and hedge financial risks, and monitor compliInflow – – – good reputation. Derivative transactions are concluded ance with the corporate policies approved by the Board Total 4,330 2,139 877 mostly with parties with whom we have contractual netting of Management, except for commodity risks, which are agreements and ISDA agreements in place. We set limits subject to identification, evaluation and hedging in the At December 31, 2014 per counterparty for the different types of financial instrubusinesses. We have treasury hubs located in Brazil, Asia Borrowings 805 1,210 1,275 ments we use. We closely monitor the acceptable financial and the US that are primarily responsible for regional cash Interest on borrowings 103 228 93 counterparty credit ratings and credit limits and revise management and short-term financing. We do not allow Finance lease liabilities 6 17 25 where required in line with the market circumstances. We for extensive treasury operations at subsidiary level directly Trade and other payables 3,407 – – do not expect non-performance by the counterparties with external parties. for these financial instruments. Due to our geographical FX contracts (hedges) spread and the diversity of our customers, we were not Outflow 2,196 – – subject to any significant concentration of credit risks at Liquidity risk management Inflow (2,188) – – balance sheet date. The credit risk from trade receivables Other derivatives is measured and analyzed at a local operating entity level, The primary objective of liquidity management is to provide Outflow 14 10 – mainly by means of ageing analysis, see Note 12. for sufficient cash and cash equivalents at all times and Inflow – (4) – any place in the world to enable us to meet our payment Total 4,343 1,461 1,393 Generally, the maximum exposure to credit risk is repreobligations. We aim for a well-spread maturity schedule of sented by the carrying value of financial assets in the our long-term borrowings and a strong liquidity position. balance sheet. At year-end 2014, we had €1.7 billion available as cash above shows our cash outflows per maturity group. The and cash equivalents (2013: €2.1 billion), see Note 13. In amounts disclosed in the table are the contractual undisAt year-end 2014, the credit risk on consolidated level was addition, we have a €1.8 billion multi-currency revolving counted cash flows. €4.7 billion (2013: €4.9 billion) for cash, loans, trade and credit facility, which was extended in 2013 by an additional other receivables. Our credit risk is well spread among year to 2018. At year-end 2014 and 2013, this facility had both global and local counterparties. Our largest counnot been drawn. We have US dollar and euro commercial terparty risk amounted to €194 million at year-end 2014 paper programs in place, which can be used to the extent (2013: €270 million). that the equivalent portion of the €1.8 billion multi-currency revolving credit facility is not used. We had no commercial paper outstanding at year-end 2014 and 2013. The table AkzoNobel Report 2014 | Financial information 175 Cash flow hedge accounting of CNY793 million for an the results within the next five years. All hedges were effecForeign exchange risk acquisition was applied from 2011 onwards and was tive in 2014 and 2013. management completed in 2014. There was no cash flow hedge reserve related to acquisitions outstanding at the end of 2014. Trade and financing transactions Interest rate risk management We operate in a large number of countries, where we have There was no cash flow hedge reserve related to divestclients and suppliers, many of whom are outside of the ments outstanding at the end of 2013 and 2014. We are partly financed with debt in order to obtain more local functional currency environment. This creates currenefficient leverage. Fixed rate debt results in fair value intercy exposure which is partly netted out on consolidation. est rate risk. Floating rate debt results in cash flow interest Price risk management rate risk. Fixed rate debt maturing within one year is The purpose of our foreign currency hedging activities is treated as floating rate debt. The fixed/floating rate of our to protect us from the risk that the functional currency net Commodity price risk management outstanding bonds shifted from 75 percent fixed at yearcash flows resulting from trade or financing transactions We use commodities, gas and electricity in our production end 2013 to 79 percent fixed at year-end 2014. During are adversely affected by changes in exchange rates. Our processes and we are particularly sensitive to energy price 2014, we have not used interest rate swap contracts. policy is to hedge our transactional foreign exchange rate movements. exposures above predefined thresholds from recognized The effective interest rate on debt issued over 2014 was assets and liabilities. Cash flow hedge accounting is Our chlor-alkali activity in the Netherlands mitigates price 4.9 percent (2013: 5.3 percent). applied by exception. Derivative transactions with external risks related to electricity by concluding electricity futures parties are bound by overnight limits per currency. to gradually cover the expected use over future periods. We apply cash flow hedge accounting to these futures. Capital risk management In general, forward exchange contracts that we enter into All contracts qualified as effective for hedge accounting. have a maturity of less than one year. When necessary, The fair value of the contracts outstanding at year-end Our objectives when managing capital are to safeguard forward exchange contracts are rolled over at matu2014 amounted to a loss of €8 million, net of tax (year end our ability to satisfy our capital providers and to maintain a rity. Currency derivatives are not used for speculative 2013: a loss of €4 million, net of tax), which are expected capital structure that optimizes our cost of capital. For this purposes. to affect profit within the next three years. we maintain a conservative financial strategy, with the objective to remain a strong investment grade company as rated Hedged notional amounts at year-end In order to hedge the oil price risk, we have entered into by the rating agencies Moody’s and Standard & Poor’s. The oil/gas swap contracts. At the end of 2014, the contracts capital structure can be altered, among others, by adjusting Buy Sell Buy Sell outstanding have a fair value of €3 million gain, net of tax the amount of dividends paid to shareholders, return capital In € millions 2013 2013 2014 2014 on those contracts. The fair value of the contracts at the to capital providers, or issue new debt or shares. Early US dollar 267 684 289 649 year-end 2013 was a marginal loss, net of tax. We did not 2014, a bond of €825 million matured. Late 2014, a bond Pound sterling 67 665 212 103 apply hedge accounting to the changes of the fair values was issued with a nominal value of €500 million, maturing in Swedish krona 302 30 350 45 of these contracts. 2024, at a coupon rate of 1.75 percent. Other 270 379 422 475 Total 906 1,758 1,273 1,272 To hedge the price risk of electricity that is used for the Consistent with other companies in the industry, we Specialty Chemicals plants in Sweden and Finland, we monitor capital headroom on the basis of funds from Investments in foreign subsidiaries, associates entered into future contracts on the power exchange operations in relation to our net borrowings level (FFO/ and joint ventures Nasdaq commodities, based on expected use of electricity NB-ratio). The FFO/NB-ratio for 2014 at year-end amountNet investment hedge accounting is applied on hedges of over the period 2015-2019. We apply cash flow hedge ed to 0.45 (2013: 0.56). Funds from operations are based pound sterling net investments in foreign operations which accounting to these contracts in order to mitigate the on net cash from operating activities after tax, which is were hedged by a £250 million bond. During 2014 the accounting mismatch that would otherwise occur. The adjusted, among others, for the elimination of changes in hedge was fully effective. effective part of the fair value of these contracts amounted working capital, additional payments for pensions and for to a €11 million loss net of tax recorded in equity (2013: the effects of the underfunding of post-retirement benefit €16 million net deferred loss), which are expected to affect obligations. Net borrowings is calculated as a total of long 176 Financial information | AkzoNobel Report 2014 and short-term borrowings less cash and cash equivaFair value per financial instruments category lents, adding an after-tax amount for the underfunding Carrying value per IAS 39 of post-retirement benefit obligations and lease commitcategory ments. Loans and receivables/ At fair value Total Carrying Out of scope other through carrying Fair value of financial instruments In € millions amount of IFRS 7 liabilities profit or loss value Fair value and IAS 39 categories 2013 year-end Other financial non-current assets 965 674 291 – 291 301 Loans, receivables and other liabilities are recognized at Trade and other receivables 2,536 220 2,301 15 2,316 2,316 amortized cost, using the effective interest method. We Cash and cash equivalents 2,098 – – 2,098 2,098 2,098 estimated the fair value of our long-term borrowings based Total financial assets 5,599 894 2,592 2,113 4,705 4,715 on the quoted market prices for the same or similar issues or on the current rates offered to us for debt with similar Long-term borrowings 2,666 – 2,666 – 2,666 2,837 maturities. Short-term borrowings 961 – 961 – 961 965 Trade and other payables 3,218 1,258 1,944 16 1,960 1,960 The carrying amounts of cash and cash equivalents, trade Total financial liabilities 6,845 1,258 5,571 16 5,587 5,762 receivables less allowance for impairment, short-term borrowings and other current liabilities approximate fair 2014 year-end value due to the short maturity period of those instruOther financial non-current assets 797 529 268 – 268 289 ments. Trade and other receivables 2,743 227 2,499 16 2,515 2,515 Cash and cash equivalents 1,732 – – 1,732 1,732 1,732 The only financial instruments accounted for at fair value Total financial assets 5,272 756 2,767 1,748 4,515 4,536 through profit or loss are derivative financial instruments and the short-term investments included in cash. The Long-term borrowings 2,527 – 2,527 – 2,527 2,775 fair value of foreign currency contracts, swap contracts, Short-term borrowings 811 – 811 – 811 819 forward rate agreements, oil contracts and gas and Trade and other payables 3,407 1,215 2,149 45 2,194 2,191 electricity futures was determined by valuation techniques Total financial liabilities 6,745 1,215 5,487 45 5,532 5,785 using market observable input (such as foreign currency interest rates based on Reuters) and by obtaining quotes from dealers and brokers. Level 1 fair valuation methods were used for €2.6 billion of may be aggregated into a single net amount that is the long-term borrowings and €0.6 billion of the short-term payable by one party to the other. In certain circumstances The following valuation methods for financial instruments borrowings. All other fair values were determined using – e.g. when a credit event such as a default occurs – all carried at fair value through profit or loss are distinguished: level 2 fair valuation methods, except for €111 million level outstanding transactions under the agreement may be • Level 1: quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets 3 (discounted cash flow) fair valuation. terminated, the termination value is assessed and a net for identical assets or liabilities amount is payable in settlement of the transactions. • Level 2: inputs other than quoted prices included within level 1 that are observable for the asset or Master netting agreements We have evaluated the potential effect of netting agreeliability, either directly (i.e. as prices) or indirectly (i.e. ments including the potential effect of rights of set-off. We derived from prices) We enter into derivative transactions under International did not offset any amounts regarding derivative transac• Level 3: inputs for the asset or liability that are not Swaps and Derivatives Association (ISDA) master netting tions, but we did offset bank balances for immaterial based on observable market data (unobservable) agreements. In general, under such agreements the amounts. amounts owed by each counterparty on a single day in respect of transactions outstanding in the same currency AkzoNobel Report 2014 | Financial information 177 Sensitivities on financial instruments at year-end 2014 Sensitivity object Sensitivity Hypothetical impact Foreign currencies: We perform foreign currency sensitivity analysis A 10 percent strengthening of the euro versus US dollar Profit: €7 million (2013: profit €5 million). Equity: €nil (2013: €nil) by applying an adjustment to the spot rates prevailing at year-end. This adjustment is based A 10 percent strengthening of the euro versus the Pound sterling Profit: €3 million (2013: profit €2 million). Equity: €nil (2013: €nil) on observed changes in the exchange rate in the past and management expectation for possible A 10 percent strengthening of the euro versus Swedish krona Profit: €2 million (2013: profit €2 million). Equity: €nil (2013: €nil) future movements. We then apply the expected possible volatility to revalue all monetary assets Net investment hedge accounting is applied to £250 million, which and liabilities (including derivative financial instruresults in a sensitivity on equity of €nil ments) in a currency other than the functional currency of the subsidiary in its balance sheet at year-end. Commodity prices: We perform our commodity price risk sensitivElectricity price Specialty Chemicals Netherlands: Equity: €16 million (2013: €12 million) ity analysis by applying an adjustment to the A 10 percent change in the forward price of electricity (€5 per MWh) We apply cash flow hedge accounting to the fair value changes of forward rates prevailing at year-end. This as compared with the market prices (up/down) electricity futures adjustment is based on observed changes in commodity prices in the previous year and Electricity price Specialty Chemicals Sweden and Finland: Equity: €7 million (2013: €6 million) management expectations for possible future A 10 percent change in the forward price on the Nord Pool exchange We apply cash flow hedge accounting to the fair value changes of movements. We then apply the expected volaelectricity (€2.93 per MWh) as compared with market prices (up/ electricity futures tility to revalue all commodity-derivative finandown) cial instruments in the applicable commodity in Profit/(loss): €3 million (2013: €6 million) our balance sheet at year-end. For the purpose Oil price Specialty Chemicals Netherlands and Denmark: Over the full term of the (partially long-term) contracts, net impact on of this sensitivity analysis, the change of the A 10 percent change in price of oil (€5 per barrel) as compared with profit will be €nil price of the commodity is not discounted to market prices (up/down) the net present value at balance sheet date. Interest rates: We perform interest rate sensitivity analysis A 100 basis points increase of EURIBOR interest rates Profit: €nil (2013 profit: €2 million) by applying an adjustment to the interest rate curve prevailing at year-end. This adjustment A 100 basis points increase of US LIBOR interest rates Profit: €2 million (2013 loss: €2 million) is based on observed changes in the interest rate in the past and management expectation A 100 basis points increase of GBP LIBOR interest rates Profit: €1 million (2013 loss: €1 million) for possible future movements. We then apply the expected possible volatility to revalue all interest bearing assets and liabilities. 178 Financial information | AkzoNobel Report 2014 Company financial statements A Note A: General information Statement of income The financial statements of A ­ kzo Nobel N.V. have been prepared using the option of section 362 of Book 2 of In € millions 2013 2014 the Netherlands Civil Code, meaning that the accountNet income from subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures 680 546 ing principles used are the same as for the Consolidated Other net income 44 – financial statements. Foreign currency amounts have Total net income 724 546 been translated, assets and liabilities have been valued, and net income has been determined in accordance with the principles of valuation and determination of income Balance sheet as of December 31, before allocation of profit presented in Note 1 to the Consolidated financial statements. Subsidiaries of A ­ kzo Nobel N.V. are accounted for In € millions Note 2013 2014 using the equity method. Assets As the financial data of A­ kzo Nobel N.V. are included in Non-current assets the Consolidated financial statements, the statement of Financial non-current assets B 13,822 13,037 income of A ­ kzo Nobel N.V. is condensed in conformity Total non-current assets 13,822 13,037 with section 402 of Book 2 of the Netherlands Civil Code. Current assets The remuneration paragraph is included in Note 22 of the Trade and other receivables C 66 103 Consolidated financial statements. Cash and cash equivalents D 1,084 724 Total current assets 1,150 827 Total assets 14,972 13,864 Equity and liabilities Equity Subscribed share capital 485 492 Additional paid-in capital 319 463 Cash flow hedge reserve (19) (19) Other statutory reserves 275 335 Cumulative translation reserve (417) (43) Actuarial gains and losses (1,495) (2,050) Other reserves 5,802 6,147 Undistributed results 644 465 Shareholders’ equity 5,594 5,790 Non-current liabilities Provision for subsidiaries B 490 147 Long-term borrowings F 8,533 6,969 Total non-current liabilities 9,023 7,116 Current liabilities Short-term debt G 355 958 Total current liabilities 355 958 Total equity and liabilities 14,972 13,864 AkzoNobel Report 2014 | Financial information 179 Movement in shareholders’ equity Statutory reserves Other Cumulative Subscribed Additional Cash flow Statutory translation Actuarial gains Other Undistributed Shareholders’ In € millions share capital paid-in capital hedge reserve reserves reserve and losses reserves results equity Balance at January 1, 2013 478 174 (17) 264 61 (1,231) 8,205 (2,170) 5,764 Changes in fair value of derivatives – – (2) – – – – – (2) Changes in exchange rates in respect of subsidiaries, – – – – (478) – – – (478) associates and joint ventures Post-retirement benefits – – – – – (264) – – (264) Net income – – – – – – – 724 724 Comprehensive income – – (2) – (478) (264) – 724 (20) Dividend paid 6 133 – – – – – (349) (210) Equity-settled transactions – – – – – – 46 – 46 Issue of common shares 1 12 – – – – – – 13 Addition to other reserves – – – 11 – – (2,450) 2,439 – Acquisition of non-controlling interests – – – – – – 1 – 1 Balance at December 31, 2013 485 319 (19) 275 (417) (1,495) 5,802 644 5,594 Changes in exchange rates in respect of subsidiaries, – – – – 374 – – – 374 associates and joint ventures Post-retirement benefits – – – – – (555) – – (555) Net income – – – – – – – 546 546 Comprehensive income – – – – 374 (555) – 546 365 Dividend paid 5 137 – – – – – (354) (212) Equity-settled transactions – – – – – – 34 – 34 Issue of common shares 2 7 – – – – – – 9 Addition to other reserves – – – 60 – – 311 (371) – Balance at December 31, 2014 492 463 (19) 335 (43) (2,050) 6,147 465 5,790 180 Financial information | AkzoNobel Report 2014 B Note B: Financial non-current assets and provisions for subsidiaries C Note C: Trade and other receivables Movements in financial non-current assets Trade and other receivables In € millions 2013 2014 Subsidiaries Receivables from subsidiaries 11 42 Other financial Receivables from associates and joint 15 16 non‑current ventures In € millions Share in capital Loans 1 assets Total FX contracts 4 15 Balance at January 1, 2013 7,548 5,729 81 13,358 Other receivables 36 30 Acquisitions/capital contributions 1,436 – – 1,436 Total 66 103 Net income from subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures 680 – – 680 Post-retirement benefits (264) – – (264) Equity-settled transactions 39 – – 39 Change in fair value of derivatives (2) – – (2) Loans granted – 1,385 – 1,385 D Note D: Cash and cash equivalents Repayment of loans – (2,282) – (2,282) Changes in exchange rates (468) (14) – (482) Dividend received (95) – – (95) Other changes – – 13 13 Cash and cash equivalents Change to provisions for subsidiaries 36 – – 36 In € millions 2013 2014 Balance at December 31, 2013 8,910 4,818 94 13,822 Cash on hand and in banks 439 114 Acquisitions/capital contributions 1,986 – – 1,986 Short-term investments 645 610 Divestments/capital repayments – – (1) (1) Total 1,084 724 Net income from subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures 546 – – 546 Post-retirement benefits (553) – – (553) Equity-settled transactions 31 – – 31 Loans granted – 1,804 – 1,804 E Note E: Shareholders’ equity Repayment of loans – (2,297) – (2,297) Changes in exchange rates 379 64 – 443 Dividend received (2,402) – – (2,402) Other changes – – 1 1 Subscribed share capital Change to provisions for subsidiaries (343) – – (343) The holders of common shares are entitled to receive Balance at December 31, 2014 8,554 4,389 94 13,037 dividends as declared from time to time and are entitled 1 Loans to these companies have no fixed repayment schedule. to one vote per share at the Annual General Meeting of shareholders. The holders of the priority shares are entitled to a dividend of 6 percent per share or the statutory interest in the Netherlands, whichever is lower, plus any accrued and unpaid dividends. They are entitled to 200 votes per share (in accordance with the 200 times higher nominal value per share) at the Annual General Meeting of shareholders. In addition, the holders of priority shares have the right to draw up binding lists of nominees for appoint­ment to the Supervisory Board and the Board of Management; amendments to the Articles of Association are subject to the approval of the Meeting of Holders of Priority Shares. AkzoNobel Report 2014 | Financial information 181 Priority shares may only be transferred to a transferee Statutory reserves have been recognized following section Bonds issued designated by a Meeting of Holders of Priority Shares 373 paragraph 4 of Book 2 of the Netherlands Civil Code. In € millions 2013 2014 and against payment of the par value of the shares, plus At the Annual General Meeting of shareholders of April 26, 7 1/4% 2009/15 (€975 million) 626 – interest at the rate of 6 percent per annum or the statutory 2001, an amendment to the Articles of Association was 8 % 2009/16 (£250 million) 299 320 interest in the Netherlands, whichever is lower. There are approved whereby the par value of the priority shares was 4% 2011/18 (€800 million) 793 794 no restrictions on voting rights of holders of common or decreased to €400 and of the common shares and the priority shares. The Articles of Association set out procecumulative preferred shares to €2. As the revised nominal 1 3/4% 2014/24 (€500 million) – 496 dures for exercising voting rights. The Annual General values are lower than the original par values, in accorTotal 1,718 1,610 Meeting of shareholders has in 2014 resolved to authorize dance with section 67a of Book 2 of the Netherlands Civil the Board of Management for a period of 18 months (i) Code, we recognize a statutory reserve of €61 million We have a €1.8 billion multi-currency revolving credit to issue shares (or grant rights to shares) in the capital of for this reduction in subscribed share capital. Statutory facility, which was extended in 2013 by an additional year the company up to a maximum of 10 percent, which in reserves also include €24 million for capitalized developto 2018. At year-end 2014 and 2013, this facility had not case of mergers or acquisitions can be increased by up to ment costs, as well as the reserves relating to earnings been drawn. At year-end 2014 and 2013, none of the a maximum of 10 percent, of the total number of shares retained by subsidiaries, associates, and joint ventures borrowings was secured by collateral. outstanding (and to restrict or exclude the pre-emptive after 1983. rights to those shares) and (ii) to acquire shares in the capital of the company, provided that the shares that will at Dividend any time be held will not exceed 10 percent of the issued We will propose to the Annual General Meeting on April G Note G: Short-term debt share capital. The issue or repurchase of shares requires 22, 2015, a 2014 final dividend of €1.12 per share, which the approval of the Supervisory Board. would make a total 2014 dividend of €1.45 per share (2013: €1.45). There will be a stock dividend option with We held no common shares at year-end 2014 or 2013. cash dividend as default. Short-term debt In € millions 2013 2014 Of the shareholders’ equity of €5.8 billion, an amount of During 2014, we paid the 2013 final dividend of €1.12 and Current portion of debenture loans – 623 €5.0 billion (2013: €4.8 billion) was unrestricted and the 2014 interim dividend of €0.33. Current portion of other long-term 32 30 available for distribution – subject to the relevant proviborrowings sions of our Articles of Association and Dutch law. We Debt to subsidiaries 29 13 consider negative reserves for actuarial gains and losses FX contracts 9 8 as restricted. F Note F: Long-term borrowings Borrowings from associates and 28 41 joint ventures Short-term loans 4 22 Debt related to pensions 8 6 Unrestricted reserves at year-end Long-term borrowings Other suppliers 56 81 In € millions 2013 2014 In € millions 2013 2014 Other liabilities 189 134 Shareholders’ equity at year-end 5,594 5,790 Bonds issued 1,718 1,610 Total 355 958 Subscribed share capital (485) (492) Debt to subsidiaries 6,725 5,299 Subsidiaries’ restrictions to (182) (245) Other borrowings 90 60 We have US dollar and euro commercial paper programs transfer funds Total 8,533 6,969 in place, which can be used to the extent that the equivaStatutory reserve due to (61) (61) capital reduction lent portion of the €1.8 billion multi-currency revolving Reserve for development costs (26) (24) For the fair value of the debenture loans, see Note 23 of credit facility is not used. We had no commercial paper Cash flow hedge reserve – – the notes of the Consolidated financial statements. outstanding at year-end 2014 and 2013. Unrestricted reserves 4,840 4,968 182 Financial information | AkzoNobel Report 2014 H Note H: Financial instruments J Note J: Auditor’s fees At year-end 2014, Akzo Nobel N.V. had outstanding Auditor's fees foreign exchange contracts to buy currencies for a total of Network Network €1.3 billion (year-end 2013: €0.9 billion), while contracts to In the outside the In the outside the sell currencies totaled €1.3 billion (year-end 2013: Netherlands Netherlands Total Netherlands Netherlands Total €1.7 billion). The contracts mainly related to US dollars, In € millions 2013 2014 Pound sterling and Swedish krona, and all have maturiAudit 3.0 6.8 9.8 3.1 7.1 10.2 ties within one year. These contracts offset the foreign Audit-related 0.2 0.3 0.5 0.3 0.2 0.5 exchange contracts concluded by the subsidiaries, and Tax – 0.1 0.1 – 0.1 0.1 the fair value changes are recognized in the statement of Other services – – – – – – income to offset the fair value changes on the contracts Total 3.2 7.2 10.4 3.4 7.4 10.8 with the subsidiaries. For information on risk exposure and risk management, see Note 23 of the Consolidated financial statements. Amsterdam, February 11, 2015 The Board of Management I Note I: Contingent liabilities Ton Büchner Maëlys Castella The Supervisory Board Akzo Nobel N.V. is parent of the group’s fiscal unit in the Antony Burgmans Netherlands, and is therefore liable for the liabilities of said Sari Baldauf fiscal unit as a whole. Peggy Bruzelius Uwe-Ernst Bufe Akzo Nobel N.V. has declared in writing that it accepts joint Byron Grote and several liability for contractual debts of certain Dutch Louis Hughes consolidated companies (section 403 of Book 2 of the Ben Verwaayen Netherlands Civil Code). These debts, at year-end 2014, aggregating €0.6 billion (2013: €0.6 billion), are included in the Consolidated balance sheet. Additionally, at year-end 2014, guarantees were issued on behalf of consolidated companies for an amount of €1.4 billion (2013: €2.4 billion). The debts and liabilities of the consolidated companies underlying these guarantees are included in the Consolidated balance sheet or in the amount of long-term liabilities in respect of operational lease contracts as disclosed in Note 20 of the Consolidated financial statements. Guarantees relating to associates and joint ventures amounted to €9 million (2013: €9 million). AkzoNobel Report 2014 | Financial information 183 Other information Basis for our opinion by the judgment of the group audit team, having regard to Independent auditor’s report We conducted our audit in accordance with Dutch law, the materiality for the Financial statements as a whole and To the Annual General Meeting of shareholders of including the Dutch Standards on Auditing. Our responsithe reporting structure within the group. ­Akzo Nobel N.V. bilities under those standards are further described in the section “Our responsibilities for the audit of the Financial We agreed with the Supervisory Board that misstateReport on the audit of the Financial statements statements” of our report. ments in excess of €3 million, which are identified during 2014 the audit, would be reported to them, as well as smaller We are independent of Akzo Nobel N.V. in accordance misstatements that in our view must be reported on qualiOur opinion with the “Verordening inzake de onafhankelijkheid van tative grounds. We have audited the Financial statements 2014 of Akzo accountants bij assurance-opdrachten”(ViO) and other Nobel N.V. (the Company), based in Amsterdam. The relevant independence requirements in the Netherlands. Scope of the group audit Financial statements include the Consolidated financial Furthermore we have complied with the “Verordening Akzo Nobel N.V. is head of a group of entities. The finanstatements and the Company financial statements. gedragsen beroepsregels accountants” (VGBA). cial information of this group is included in the Financial statements of Akzo Nobel N.V. In our opinion: We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained • The Consolidated financial statements give a true and is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our Because we are ultimately responsible for the opinion, we fair view of the balance sheet of Akzo Nobel N.V. as at opinion. are also responsible for directing, supervising and performDecember 31, 2014 and of its result and its cash flows ing the group audit. In this respect we have determined for 2014 in accordance with International Financial Materiality the nature and extent of the audit procedures to be carried Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union Misstatements can arise from fraud or errors and are out for group entities. Decisive were the size and/or the (EU-IFRS) and with Part 9 of Book 2 of the Netherlands considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they risk profile of the groupentities or operations. On this basis, Civil Code could reasonably be expected to influence the economic we selected groupentities for which an audit or review had • The Company financial statements give a true and decisions of users taken on the basis of these Financial to be carried out on the complete set of financial informafair view of the balance sheet of Akzo Nobel N.V. as statements. The materiality affects the nature, timing and tion or specific items. at December 31, 2014 and of its result for 2014 in extent of our audit procedures and the evaluation of the accordance with Part 9 of Book 2 of the Netherlands effect of identified misstatements on our opinion. We scoped components of Akzo Nobel N.V. into the group Civil Code audit where they are of significant size, have significant Based on our professional judgment we determined the risks to the group or are considered significant for other The Consolidated financial statements comprise: materiality for the Financial statements as a whole at reasons. In case this determination does not provide 1. Consolidated balance sheet as at December 31, €64 million. The materiality is determined with reference to adequate coverage over the Financial statements, we 2014 consolidated profit before taxation (7.5 percent). In addiused our judgment to scope-in additional components. 2. The following Consolidated statements for 2014: tion, the appropriateness for the materiality was assessed Operating companies and operating business units are the statement of income, and the statements of by comparing the amount to consolidated revenue reporting components in our group audit. Applying these comprehensive income, changes in equity and cash (0.4 percent) and total assets (0.4 percent). We have scoping criteria led to 51 components in scope, in total flows also taken into account misstatements and/or possible covering 15 countries. Furthermore, we performed specified 3. Notes, comprising a summary of the significant misstatements, if any, that in our opinion are material for audit procedures at corporate level and at business unit accounting policies and other explanatory information qualitative reasons. level on significant risk areas such as post-retirement benefit provisions, goodwill and other asset impairment testing The Company financial statements comprise: Audits of group entities (components) were performed and tax positions. This resulted in coverage of 61 percent 1. The Company balance sheet as at December 31, 2014 to component materiality levels, the majority of which of group revenue, 68 percent of group profit before taxa2. The Company statement of income for 2014 were based on the relevant local statutory audit materialtion and 81 percent of total group assets. In addition, we 3. Notes, comprising a summary of the significant ity which is lower than the materiality for the Financial performed analytical procedures at the aggregated group accounting policies and other explanatory information statements as a whole. In the other cases, component level on the remaining components in order to corroborate materiality was determined between €30 and €50 million 184 Financial information | AkzoNobel Report 2014 our assessment that there are no significant risks of mateconditions, market share, revenue and margin developAccounting for income tax positions rial misstatement within these remaining components. ment. For our audit we assessed and tested the assumpIncome tax positions were significant to our audit tions, methodologies, the weighted average cost of capital because the assessment process is complex and The group audit team provided detailed instructions to all and other data used by the company, for example by imposes estimates. AkzoNobel’s operations are subject component auditors which covered the significant audit comparing them to external data, such as expected inflato income taxes in various jurisdictions and changes in areas, including the relevant risks of material misstatement, tion rates, external market growth expectations and by the company’s business model might have certain tax and set out the information required to be reported back analyzing sensitivities in Akzo Nobel’s valuation model. We implications. We have performed audit procedures on the to the group audit team. The group audit team visited included in our team a valuation specialist to assist us with completeness and accuracy of the amounts recognized component locations in the US, UK, France, Germany and these procedures. We specifically focused on the sensitivas current and deferred tax, including the assessment China. Telephone calls were also held with the auditors of ity in the available headroom for the cash generating of correspondence with tax authorities and the evaluathese components and of all other components that were units, evaluating whether a reasonably possible change in tion of tax exposures. In addition, in respect of deferred not physically visited. During these visits and calls, the assumptions could cause the carrying amount to exceed tax assets, we assessed the Board of Management’s findings and observations reported to the group audit team its recoverable amount. We also assessed the historical analysis and assumptions supporting the probability that were discussed in more detail. Furthermore, we performed accuracy of the Board of Management’s estimates. We deferred tax assets recognized in the balance sheet will detailed file reviews and any further work deemed necesassessed the adequacy of the company’s disclosures be recovered through taxable income in future years sary by the group audit team was then performed. included in Note 7 about those assumptions to which the and available tax planning strategies. We included in our outcome of the impairment test is most sensitive. team local and international tax specialists to analyze the By performing the procedures mentioned above at group tax positions and to challenge the assumptions used to entities, together with additional procedures at group level, Post-retirement benefit provisions determine tax positions. We also assessed the adequacy we have been able to obtain sufficient and appropriate The total amount of post-retirement benefit provisions of the company’s disclosure in Note 6 in respect of tax and audit evidence about the group’s financial information to consists of total defined benefit obligations of €17 billion uncertain tax positions. provide a basis for our opinion on the Financial stateoffset by total plan assets amounting to €16 billion as ments. per December 31, 2014. The largest pension plans are Fraud at US subsidiary the ICI Pension Fund (ICIPF) and the AkzoNobel Pension In November 2014, the company announced it had Our key audit matters Scheme in the UK, which together account for 83 percent been subject to fraud targeted at one of its subsidiaries Key audit matters are those matters that, in our profesof the defined benefit obligation and 91 percent of plan located in the US, where external payments were made. sional judgment, were of most significance in our audit assets. As part of our audit we have tested internal The company engaged external advisors to investigate of the Financial statements. We have communicated the controls as well as assessed and challenged the Board the fraud and to assess the internal control framework key audit matters to the Supervisory Board. The key audit of Management’s actuarial assumptions such as discount of this subsidiary. Furthermore, the company determined matters are not a comprehensive reflection of all matters rates, expected inflation rates, mortality tables, indexation the impact on the Financial statements. We discussed discussed. percentages, valuation of plan assets and future salary the scoping of the work by the external advisors and we increases. We benchmarked the discount rates utilized reviewed the outcome of the work performed by them. In These matters were addressed in the context of our audit by the company with external sources such as the AA addition to the already planned procedures, we expanded of the Financial statements as a whole and in forming our Corporate yield curve published by Merrill Lynch and peer our audit procedures on payments made to external opinion thereon and we do not provide a separate opinion companies. In performing our audit we have used pension parties by the company in order to verify that these on these matters. specialists including actuarial and valuation specialists. We payments are appropriately authorized and supported by specifically focused on the de-risking transactions executevidence as part of the regular business activities. We also ed by the trustee of ICIPF and we verified the appropriate verified that there is no evidence of any involvement of Goodwill and other asset impairment testing accounting through other comprehensive income. We also AkzoNobel’s Board of Management serving in a financial The annual impairment test was significant to our audit assessed the adequacy of the company’s disclosure in reporting oversight role. We assessed the adequacy of the because the assessment process is complex and the test Note 15 in respect of post-retirement benefit provisions. Board of Management’s response including investigations imposes estimates. In performing the impairment testing and corrective actions. The company disclosed the finanfor goodwill and other assets, the company used various cial impact of the fraud in the US in Note 3 of the Financial assumptions in respect of future market and economic statements. AkzoNobel Report 2014 | Financial information 185 Responsibilities of the Board of Management Report on other legal and regulatory requirements and the Supervisory Board for the Financial Report on the report of the Board of Management statements and the other information The Board of Management is responsible for the preparaPursuant to legal requirements of Part 9 of Book 2 of the tion and fair presentation of the Financial statements in Netherlands Civil Code (concerning our obligation to report accordance with EU-IFRS and Part 9 of Book 2 of the about the report of the Board of Management and other Netherlands Civil Code, and for the preparation of the information): report of the Board of Management in accordance with • We have no deficiencies to report as a result of Part 9 of Book 2 of the Netherlands Civil Code. Furtherour examination whether the report of the Board more, the Board of Management is responsible for such of Management, as set out on pages 1 to 138, to internal control as the Board of Management determines is the extent we can assess, has been prepared in necessary to enable the preparation of the Financial stateaccordance with Part 9 of Book 2 of the Netherlands ments that are free from material misstatement, whether Civil Code, and whether the information as required by due to errors or fraud. Part 9 of Book 2 of the Netherlands Civil Code has been annexed As part of the preparation of the Financial statements, the • We report that the report of the Board of Management, Board of Management is responsible for assessing the to the extent we can assess, is consistent with the company’s ability to continue as a going concern. Based Financial statements on the financial reporting frameworks mentioned, the Board of Management should prepare the Financial stateEngagement ments using the going concern basis of accounting unless We were appointed before 2008 for the first time as the Board of Management either intends to liquidate auditor of Akzo Nobel N.V. and operated as auditor the company or to cease operations, or has no realistic since then. We were re-appointed by the Annual General alternative but to do so. The Board of Management should Meeting of Shareholders on April 29, 2014, as auditor of disclose events and circumstances that may cast signifiAkzo Nobel N.V. for the years 2014 and 2015. cant doubt on the company’s ability to continue as a going concern in the Financial statements. Amsterdam, February 11, 2015 KPMG Accountants N.V. The Supervisory Board is responsible for overseeing the E.J.L. van Leeuwen RA company’s financial reporting process. Our responsibilities for the audit of the Financial statements Our objective is to plan and perform the audit assignment in a manner that allows us to obtain sufficient and appropriate audit evidence for our opinion. Our audit has been performed with a high, but not absolute, level of assurance, which means we may not have detected all errors and fraud. For more information about an audit of financial statements, we refer to the NBA website: www.nba.nl/standardtexts-auditorsreport. 186 Financial information | AkzoNobel Report 2014 Profit allocation and distributions Profit allocation and distributions Article 44 44.7 Article 43 Cash dividends by virtue of paragraph 4 of article 20, 43.6 article 42, or article 43 that have not been collected The Board of Management shall be authorized to deterwithin five years of the commencement of the second mine, with the approval of the Supervisory Board, what day on which they became due and payable shall revert share of profit remaining after application of the provisions to the company. of the foregoing paragraphs shall be carried to reserves. The remaining profit shall be placed at the disposal of the Annual General Meeting of shareholders, with due Proposal for profit allocation observance of the provisions of paragraph 7, it being provided that no further dividends shall be paid on the With due observance of Dutch law and the Articles of preferred shares. Association, it is proposed that net income of €546 million is carried to the other reserves. Furthermore, with due 43.7 observance of article 43, paragraph 7, it is proposed that From the remaining profit, the following distributions shall, dividend on priority shares of €1,152 and on common to the extent possible, be made as follows: shares of €357 million (to be increased by dividend on shares issued in 2015 before the ex-dividend date) will be (a) To the holders of priority shares: 6 percent per share or distributed. Following the acceptance of this proposal, the the statutory interest referred to in paragraph 1 of article holders of common shares will receive a dividend of 13, whichever is lower, plus any accrued and unpaid €1.45 per share, of which €0.33 was paid earlier as an dividends interim dividend. The final dividend of €1.12 per share (b) To the holders of common shares: a dividend of such (which under the conditions to be published by the an amount per share as the remaining profit, less the company and at the shareholders’ election will be paid aforesaid dividends and less such amounts as the either in cash or in stock) will be made available Annual General Meeting of shareholders may decide to from May 19, 2015. carry to reserves, shall permit 43.8 Special rights to holders of Without prejudice to the provisions of paragraph 4 of this article and of paragraph 4 of article 20, the holders of ­priority shares common shares shall, to the exclusion of everyone else, The priority shares are held by “Stichting ­­Akzo Nobel” be entitled to distributions made from reserves accrued by (Foundation ­­Akzo Nobel), whose board is composed of the virtue of the provision of paragraph 7b of this article. members of the Supervisory Board who are not members of the Audit Committee. They each have one vote on the 43.9 board of the Foundation. Without prejudice to the provisions of article 42 and paragraph 8 of this article, the Annual General Meeting of The Meeting of Holders of Priority Shares has the right shareholders may decide on the utilization of reserves only to draw up binding lists of nominees for appointment to on the proposal of the Board of Management approved by the Supervisory Board and the Board of Management. the Supervisory Board. Amendments to the Articles of Association are subject to the approval of this meeting. AkzoNobel Report 2014 | Financial information 187 Financial summary Consolidated statement of income In € millions 2005 1 2006 2007 2008 2 2009 2010 3 2011 2012 2013 2014 Revenue 13,000 10,023 10,217 15,415 13,028 13,605 14,604 15,390 14,590 14,296 Operating income 1,492 887 778 (577) 855 1,293 1,157 (1,198) 958 987 Financing income and expenses (162) (134) (151) (232) (405) (329) (311) (205) (200) (156) Income tax (338) (96) (166) (260) (141) (176) (241) (203) (111) (252) Results from associates and joint ventures 6 87 (20) 25 21 25 24 13 14 21 Profit for the period from continuing operations 998 744 441 (1,044) 330 813 629 (1,593) 661 600 Non-controlling interests (37) (29) (31) (65) (77) (83) (64) (63) (68) (72) Discontinued operations – 438 9 23 32 58 (59) (436) 131 18 Net income, attributable to shareholders 961 1,153 419 (1,086) 285 788 506 (2,092) 724 546 Common shares, in millions at year-end 285.8 287.0 262.3 231.7 232.3 233.5 234.7 239.0 242.6 246.0 Dividend to shareholders 343 344 472 417 325 320 304 214 210 212 Number of employees at year-end 61,300 42,700 42,600 60,000 54,700 55,600 52,020 50,610 49,600 47,200 Average number of employees 61,400 61,900 42,600 61,300 56,300 55,100 51,100 52,200 50,200 48,200 Employee benefits 3,221 2,158 2,215 3,022 2,955 2,980 2,765 3,018 2,950 2,824 Average revenue per employee (in €1,000) 212 162 240 251 231 247 286 295 291 297 Average operating income per employee (in €1,000) 24 14 18 (9) 15 23 23 (23) 19 20 Ratios ROS 11.5 8.8 7.6 –4 6.6 9.5 7.9 –4 6.6 6.9 ROI 19.4 16.3 14.6 – 4 7.3 11.3 10.0 –4 9.6 10.0 Net income in % of shareholders’ equity 32.0 30.5 122.9 –4 3.7 8.8 5.6 –4 12.9 9.5 Employee benefits in % of revenue 24.8 21.5 21.7 19.6 22.7 21.9 18.9 19.6 20.2 19.8 Interest coverage 5 9.2 6.6 5.2 –4 2.1 6.8 4.7 –4 5.1 8.6 Per share information (in €) Net income 3.36 4.02 33.82 (4.38) 1.23 3.23 2.04 (8.82) 3.00 2.23 Adjusted earnings per share 2.06 3.71 3.10 2.55 2.62 2.81 Shareholders’ equity 11.95 14.44 42.06 32.21 33.47 38.48 39.25 24.12 23.06 23.53 Highest share price during the year 40.18 49.41 65.56 57.11 46.52 47.70 53.74 49.75 56.08 60.77 Lowest share price during the year 30.82 38.30 44.41 22.85 26.01 37.18 29.25 35.16 42.65 47.63 Year-end share price 39.15 46.18 54.79 29.44 46.40 46.49 37.36 49.75 55.71 57.65 1 The 2005 figures have not been restated for the Organon BioSciences divestment. 2 Continuing operations from ICI are included as from 2008. The 2008 figures have not been restated for the National Starch divestment. 3 Restated to present Decorative Paints North America as a discontinued operation and for the revised IAS19. 4 Not meaningful as operating income and net income were losses. 5 Until 2009: operating income divided by net financing expenses, as from 2010: operating income divided by net interest on net debt. 188 Financial information | AkzoNobel Report 2014 Consolidated balance sheet In € millions 2005 1 2006 2007 2008 2 2009 2010 3 2011 2012 2013 2014 Intangible assets 488 682 669 7,172 7,388 6,568 7,392 4,454 3,906 4,142 Property, plant and equipment 3,432 3,346 2,203 3,357 3,474 3,191 3,705 3,739 3,589 3,835 Financial non-current assets 1,800 1,706 1,402 1,848 1,783 2,105 2,664 2,628 2,219 2,148 Total non-current assets 5,720 5,734 4,274 12,377 12,645 11,864 13,761 10,821 9,714 10,125 Inventories 1,987 2,042 1,177 1,781 1,441 1,482 1,924 1,545 1,426 1,545 Receivables 2,910 2,919 2,164 2,977 2,666 2,740 3,035 2,789 2,622 2,831 Cash and cash equivalents 1,486 1,871 11,628 1,595 2,128 3,133 1,635 1,752 2,098 1,732 Assets held for sale 322 219 – 4 – – – 921 203 66 Total current assets 6,705 7,051 14,969 6,357 6,235 7,355 6,594 7,007 6,349 6,174 Shareholders’ equity 3,415 4,144 11,032 7,463 7,775 8,397 9,031 5,764 5,594 5,790 Non-controlling interests 161 119 97 450 470 525 529 464 427 477 Total equity 3,576 4,263 11,129 7,913 8,245 8,922 9,560 6,228 6,021 6,267 Provisions 2,210 2,132 1,598 2,072 1,919 1,958 2,392 2,677 1,938 2,143 Long-term borrowings 2,702 2,551 1,954 2,341 3,641 2,727 3,035 3,388 2,666 2,527 Other non-current liabilities 183 181 133 715 674 556 541 434 389 412 Total non-current liabilities 5,095 4,864 3,685 5,128 6,234 5,241 5,968 6,499 4,993 5,082 Short-term borrowings 357 410 1,635 1,338 384 904 494 662 961 811 Current liabilities 2,571 2,652 2,276 3,510 3,220 3,575 3,782 3,632 3,438 3,634 Current portion of provisions 766 571 518 845 797 577 551 455 601 494 Liabilities held for sale 60 25 – – – – – 352 49 11 Total current liabilities 3,754 3,658 4,429 5,693 4,401 5,056 4,827 5,101 5,049 4,950 Average invested capital 4 7,576 8,034 6,629 9,311 12,578 11,467 11,537 11,817 10,007 9,871 Capital expenditures 514 371 359 534 513 534 658 826 666 588 Depreciation 528 349 330 453 424 435 419 463 472 477 Operating working capital 2,359 1,691 2,016 1,891 1,572 1,384 1,418 Net debt 1,573 1,090 (8,039) 2,084 1,897 500 1,894 2,298 1,529 1,606 Ratios Equity/non-current assets 0.62 0.74 2.60 0.64 0.65 0.75 0.73 0.58 0.62 0.62 Inventories and receivables/current liabilities 1.90 1.87 1.47 1.36 1.28 1.18 1.31 1.19 1.18 1.20 Operating working capital as % of revenue 16.5 13.7 13.9 13.2 10.7 9.9 10.1 The 2005 figures have not been restated for the Organon BioSciences divestment. 1  Continuing operations from ICI are included as from 2008. The 2008 figures have not been restated for the National Starch divestment. 2  3  Restated to present Decorative Paints North America as a discontinued operation and for the revised IAS19. 4 Restated  to current definition as from 2010. AkzoNobel Report 2014 | Financial information 189 Business Area statistics In € millions 2008 2009 1 2010 2011 2 2012 2013 2014 Decorative Paints Revenue 5,006 4,573 4,968 4,201 4,297 4,174 3.909 Operating income (669) 133 275 235 (2,012) 398 248 ROS (excluding goodwill impairment) 3.5 2.9 5.5 5.6 2.2 9.5 6.3 Average invested capital 3 6,515 6,169 4,908 5,032 4,701 2,896 2,824 ROI (excluding goodwill impairment) 2.7 2.2 5.6 4.7 2.0 13.7 8.8 Capital expenditures 120 112 154 155 206 171 143 Average number of employees 24,600 22,900 21,800 17,100 17,200 16,800 15,500 Average revenue per employee (in €1,000) 203 200 228 246 250 248 252 Average operating income per employee (in €1,000) (27) 6 13 14 (117) 24 16 Performance Coatings Revenue 4,575 4,112 4,786 5,170 5,702 5,571 5,589 Operating income 444 433 487 458 542 525 545 ROS 9.7 10.5 10.2 8.9 9.5 9.4 9.8 Average invested capital 3 2,010 1,868 2,063 2,267 2,499 2,463 2,480 ROI 22.1 23.2 23.6 20.2 21.7 21.3 22.0 Capital expenditures 89 61 87 116 123 143 143 Average number of employees 21,000 20,200 20,600 21,300 21,700 21,300 21,000 Average revenue per employee (in €1,000) 218 204 232 243 263 262 266 Average operating income per employee (in €1,000) 21 21 24 22 25 25 26 Specialty Chemicals Revenue 5,687 4,359 4,943 5,335 5,543 4,949 4,883 Operating income 130 422 604 622 500 297 508 ROS 2.3 9.7 12.2 11.7 9.0 6.0 10.4 Average invested capital 3 3,797 3,435 3,464 3,406 3,678 3,609 3,442 ROI 3.4 12.3 17.4 18.3 13.6 8.2 14.8 Capital expenditures 305 319 273 365 484 346 297 Average number of employees 12,900 11,400 11,100 11,300 11,800 10,600 10,000 Average revenue per employee (in €1,000) 441 382 445 472 470 467 488 Average operating income per employee (in €1,000) 11 37 54 55 42 28 51 1 Excluding National Starch, divested in 2010. 2 Restated to present Decorative Paints North America as a discontinued operation. 3 From 2010 restated to current definition. 190 Financial information | AkzoNobel Report 2014 Regional statistics In € millions 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 The Netherlands Other European countries China Revenue by destination 803 694 745 765 762 3,398 3,702 3,647 3,531 3,341 1,249 1,376 1,621 1,643 1,730 Revenue by origin 1,537 1,646 1,601 1,600 1,662 2,336 2,459 2,400 2,330 2,246 1,177 1,361 1,699 1,690 1,814 Capital expenditures 84 144 110 94 72 83 98 85 66 57 147 96 135 104 75 Average invested capital 1,390 1,384 1,326 1,175 1,631 2,518 2,641 2,127 1,406 1,117 862 1,089 1,295 1,330 1,380 Number of employees 2 5,000 5,200 5,200 5,300 5,000 9,100 8,900 8,500 8,000 7,700 6,700 7,400 7,700 7,400 7,400 Germany US and Canada 1 India Revenue by destination 1,160 1,284 1,258 1,176 986 2,954 2,092 2,294 2,155 2,193 332 359 371 353 354 Revenue by origin 1,096 1,228 1,219 1,143 920 3,074 2,222 2,413 2,287 2,306 251 283 288 270 279 Capital expenditures 22 31 69 87 106 63 67 70 62 68 17 18 16 17 7 Average invested capital 949 945 861 736 764 2,131 1,722 1,742 1,739 1,778 140 130 122 119 127 Number of employees 2 3,500 3,800 3,600 3,100 2,300 10,300 5,100 5,100 5,000 4,800 1,600 1,700 1,800 1,900 1,800 Sweden Brazil Other Asian countries Revenue by destination 468 515 486 473 436 844 949 987 925 883 1,448 1,559 1,716 1,380 1,385 Revenue by origin 1,475 1,481 1,505 1,411 1,289 815 903 909 851 826 1,263 1,344 1,491 1,193 1,159 Capital expenditures 19 54 70 38 40 23 54 123 70 36 31 46 55 23 27 Average invested capital 502 551 539 471 428 753 704 621 558 566 548 656 605 493 473 Number of employees 2 3,400 3,300 3,200 3,000 2,900 2,700 2,800 2,900 2,900 2,800 5,600 6,100 5,000 5,200 5,100 UK Other Latin American countries Other regions Revenue by destination 798 841 901 887 947 550 566 636 628 602 636 667 728 674 677 Revenue by origin 854 879 967 948 950 353 379 435 431 426 409 419 463 436 419 Capital expenditures 28 27 68 74 74 7 12 16 13 9 10 11 9 18 17 Average invested capital 1,531 1,512 1,433 1,314 1,008 67 153 163 155 141 168 218 210 178 159 Number of employees 2 3,900 3,900 3,800 3,700 3,600 1,600 1,700 1,700 1,600 1,600 2,200 2,100 2,100 2,500 2,200 1 As from 2011 excluding Decorative Paints North America, divested in 2013. 2 At year-end. AkzoNobel Report 2014 | Financial information 191 Inspired by nature We’re committed to supplying sustainable products and solutions that can benefit people and the planet, which is why we are developing more technologies that use renewable materials and ingredients, such as new additives for hairstyling products and micronutrients that help to increase crop yields. Sustainability statements Consolidated Sustainability statements 194 Additional sustainability information Note 1: Managing our sustainability agenda 195 Note 2: Reporting principles 198 In this report Note 3: Stakeholder engagement 202 Case studies 22, 84, 96, 206, 212, 234 Value chain management 208 CEO statement 8 Note 4: Sustainable business 209 Strategic performance 25 Note 5: Resource efficiency 214 Risk management 52 Note 6: Capable engaged people 218 Business performance 61 Note 7: Supplier management 219 Supervisory Board Chairman’s statement 104 Safety 221 Report of the Supervisory Board 106 Note 8: People safety 222 Corporate governance statement 114 Note 9: Process safety 223 Compliance and integrity management 122 Note 10: Product stewardship 224 Remuneration report 128 Note 11: HSE management processes 226 AkzoNobel on the capital markets 135 Employees and community 228 Note 12: Our people 228 Note 13: Restructuring 231 On our website (www.akzonobel.com/sustainability) you will find additional information on processes, detailed Note 14: Community 231 data and contacts to support the following: Environment 236 Note 1: Managing our sustainability agenda Note 15: Energy 236 Note 2: Reporting principles Note 16: Greenhouse gases 237 Note 3: Stakeholder engagement Note 17: Local air quality 237 Notes 4-7: Value chain management Note 18: Raw materials efficiency 238 Notes 8-11: Safety Note 19: Water 240 Notes 12-14: Employees and community Note 20: Soil and groundwater remediation 241 Notes 15-20: Environment Independent assurance report 242 This Sustainability statements section of the Report 2014 is separate from, and does not in any way form part of the company’s annual financial reporting as defined in article 5:25c of the Dutch Financial Markets Supervision Act. This section contains summarized key performance indicators (KPIs) relating to Sustainability statements Sustainability performance summary 244 sustainability performance. Further information on AkzoNobel’s sustainability strategy, activities and results can be found on our corporate website: www.akzonobel.com/sustainability AkzoNobel Report 2014 | Sustainability statements 193 Consolidated Sustainability statements Sustainability topics have been integrated into Planet Possible all sections of the AkzoNobel Report 2014. In order to secure our own business success – and that of This summary focuses on sustainability processes our customers – we have to create more value from fewer resources. To help us achieve this, we have adopted an and activities that span our businesses. agenda called Planet Possible, which is our commitment to doing more with less. A fuller overview of our sustainability strategy, activities and results can be found in the Sustainability section of our corporate website: www.akzonobel.com/sustainability We believe the planet can support nine billion people by 2050, but only if we take the right approach and understand the changes that will be needed. So we’re looking to Consolidated Sustainability statements engage with partners who believe in our agenda and have the same commitment to finding opportunities where there Ambition Target Target Note 2011 2012 2013 2014 2014 2015 2020 don’t appear to be any. Welcome to Planet Possible. Sustainable business Our strategic sustainability objectives are explained in detail Resource efficiency index (REI) 4 94 100 98 96 – – – throughout the Sustainability statements section of this Eco-premium solutions with downstream benefits 4 – 17 18 19 – – 20 Report. (% of revenue) Eco-premium solutions (% of revenue) 4 22 22 24 24 – 30 – Sustainable business: Details of our focus areas across the Resource efficiency value chain can be found in Note 4 of this section. Carbon footprint cradle-to-grave per ton of 5 – 0 2 -4 – – 25–30 product sales (% reduction from 2012) Resource efficiency: Details of our focus areas across the value chain can be found in Note 5 of this section. Sustainability foundations Total reportable injury rate employees/supervised 8 3.1 2.4 2.3 1.8 2.0 <2.0 <1.0 contractors (per million hours) Capable, engaged people: Details of our focus areas Significant loss of containment (Level D) 9 2 0 1 0 0 0 0 across the value chain can be found in Note 6 of this Priority substances with management plan (%) 10 23 42 62 82 80 100 – section. Employee engagement 12 3.74 3.80 3.88 3.97 – >4.00 – (ViewPoint score 1–5 scale) Sustainability foundations: Our strong sustainability % of female executives 12 13 15 16 17 – 20 >20 foundations have been built up over many years. They % of executives from high growth markets 12 13 13 14 16 – 20 >20 include people, process and product safety (Notes 8–11); Community Program 14 1,678 1,931 2,108 2,260 – – – employee engagement and talent management (Note (cumulative number of projects) 12); community involvement (Note 14); environmental Operational eco-efficiency footprint measure 15–20 11 13 24 24 25 30 40 management (Notes 15-20); and integrity management (% reduction from 2009) (2017) (Governance and compliance section). Greenhouse gas emissions per ton of production 16 256 257 222 224 – 245 <245 (own operations, in kg) Sustainable fresh water management 19 74 83 85 89 90 100 – (% of manufacturing sites) 194 Sustainability statements | AkzoNobel Report 2014 1 Note 1: Managing our sustainability agenda Strategic focus We developed the sustainability elements of our strategy employees – not to mention the planet – will also benefit. by reviewing our sustainability risks and opportunities For more details, see the Strategic performance section of Our sustainability agenda incorporates economic, against the global trends that will impact our key market this Report 2014. environmental and social aspects across the value chain. segments by 2050. These were identified as population growth and the new middle class, urbanization, long-term Our strategy has three sustainability focus areas designed The importance of sustainability to running our business constraints of natural resources and climate change. to deliver more value from fewer resources, with targets is firmly integrated into the AkzoNobel strategy. As well for 2020. Our progress in terms of creating more value as being a strategic focus area, it is one of the three core We express our sustainability agenda through a from fewer resources is measured by a special Resource principles (safety, integrity and sustainability) that provide concept known as Planet Possible, which highlights our Efficiency Index (REI), which monitors the gross margin the foundation for our company values. In addition, commitment to creating more value from fewer resources generated over the resource/energy use across the value sustainability is being embedded into our new companyacross the value chain. Planet Possible encompasses all chain (measured as cradle-to-grave carbon footprint). We wide processes, including Innovation, Commercial our programs that are focused on making our products focus on three aspects: excellence and Talent management. Sustainability helps and operations more sustainable. As well as driving • Sustainable business: Involves creating business us to enhance our existing business, create new business our own success, putting sustainability at the heart of value through products and solutions that provide both opportunities and minimize risks. everything we do means that our customers and functionality and other sustainability benefits, as well as cost savings from operational efficiencies. Target: 20 percent revenue from eco-premium solutions By focusing on the full value chain, we will drive business, resource and engagement benefits with a downstream benefit by 2020 • Resource efficiency: Focused on accelerating material and energy efficiency across the value chain. Target: 25-30 percent reduction in cradle-to-grave carbon footprint per ton of sales from 2012 to 2020 • Capable, engaged people: Engaging our people and Raw materials Own operations Customer operations End-user End-of-life partnering with our suppliers and customers to deliver significant changes. Objectives are being defined, mainly at Business Area level Energy/resource benefits in use These strategic objectives are underpinned by strong Sustainable Cost savings Cost savings Improved revenue Improved revenue and margin foundation programs for other economic, environmental business and margin and social aspects that are material for our business. Specifically, these are: people and process safety, product Resource Reduced material Reduced material Reduced material and Reduced material and safety/stewardship, employee talent management/ efficiency and energy use and energy use energy use in customer energy use in product use engagement, community involvement, environmental processes, application management and integrity management. For these elements, we have key performance indicators with 2015 targets, some of which have been extended to Capable, Engaged Engaged Engaged Engaged customers 2020. Other short-term and long-term ambitions are engaged suppliers employees customers and users set at functional and business level. The Notes in the people Sustainability statements and other elements of this Report Foundations: HSE, product stewardship, employee practices, community involvement, Code of Conduct 2014 illustrate our performance against these goals. AkzoNobel Report 2014 | Sustainability statements 195 Sustainability framework The Improve level, with an emphasis on risks – working on Management structure integrity, governance and compliance with our standards Our strategic sustainability focus areas are a natural next and applicable laws and regulations – is now part of Company level step in our sustainability framework, which maps out a the compliance framework (see the Governance and The Executive Committee has overall responsibility for progression towards sustainability and identifies those compliance section). sustainability. They set company strategy and targets aspects that are material for our business. The framework and monitor the sustainability performance of each has three levels, which include environmental, economic The current strategy focuses on creating opportunities for Business Area through the Operational Control Cycle using and social aspects: value creation through resource efficiency, innovation and dashboards, which specify indicators against strategic • Invent: Integrate sustainable value propositions talent development, alongside continued integration of objectives. • Manage: Include sustainability in all aspects of the sustainability in all aspects of the value chain. value chain We have established a Sustainability Council, which • Improve: Continue to comply and ensure our license advises the Executive Committee on strategy to operate developments, monitors the integration of sustainability into management processes and oversees the company’s sustainability targets and overall performance. The Sustainability framework Council, which meets quarterly, is chaired by the CEO and includes representative Managing Directors from Level of development Environmental Economic Social our Business Areas, as well as the Corporate Directors of Strategy, Supply Chain/Research and Development, Invent Capable engaged people: Purchasing, Human Resources, Sustainability and HSE, Resource efficiency Sustainable business: suppliers, employees, and Communications. The Council maintains an external Integrate sustainable value Carbon policy eco-premium solutions customers perspective, with input from value chain partners and propositions thought leaders during regular meetings, in addition to company involvement in leading external organizations. Future Eco-premium Required Eco-efficiency Sustainable Operational Market Manage trends solutions; VOCeco-analysis analysis supplier mgt eco-efficiency propositions The Corporate Director of Sustainability and HSE reports Include sustainability in all aspects directly to the CEO and has an expertise team for HSE and Market Investment Manufacturing Sales and of the value chain R&D Purchasing sustainability, including a group focusing on lifecycle and research decisions /supply chain marketing sustainability assessments. In 2012, we formed a team of senior Business Area representatives to work with the Improve People/process safety expertise team and the business teams to ensure effective Environmental management Integrity management Employee practices roll-out of the new strategy. Continue to comply and ensure Product stewardship Vendor Policy Community engagement our license to operate Examples of sustainability activity Value chain aspects 196 Sustainability statements | AkzoNobel Report 2014 Businesses and functions Management processes To further embed sustainability in the way we do business, Accountability for managing sustainability and delivering we are piloting a new functional excellence improvement against targets lies with the businesses and functions. We include key sustainability issues in our company, tool, which reflects the strategic objectives, management The Managing Director of each business is responsible business and functional processes – strategy and processes and good practice implementation. for managing sustainability as an overall part of business. planning, risk management and internal control, The purpose is to accelerate sustainability performance The key sustainability business KPIs and targets form a compliance, the Operational Control Cycle, as well as against strategy/targets by raising the capability of people dashboard which is monitored at least every six months as in our internal audit and external assurance processes and processes, supporting good practice implementation, part of the Operational Control Cycle. All businesses have – which are reported in other sections of this Report providing challenges to the operating businesses and also appointed a sustainability manager, or focal point, to 2014 (see Strategic performance and Governance focusing improvement actions where they count. support the embedding of sustainability throughout their and compliance). Each year, there are two dedicated Each business carries out a self-assessment of the current operations. They bring together an appropriate team to sustainability sessions in the Operational Control Cycle. situation and sets ambition levels, based on company develop and implement the sustainability agenda for the Relevant sustainability aspects are also discussed in other requirements and business priorities, as well as focused business. Focal points from across the company have functional reviews. Specific challenges are reported in annual improvement plans. These assessments are regular meetings to exchange best practices and identify the Strategic performance and Business performance subject to a peer review/challenge by cross-business opportunities for further development. sections. colleagues to hone improvement options and identify the need for common improvement programs. The overall Meanwhile, each function in the value chain has identified We set global standards for the foundation elements improvement plans will be reviewed alongside current focus areas for sustainability, with targets where (health and safety, environmental protection, product performance as part of the Operational Control Cycle. appropriate. Functional management teams, such as stewardship and compliance, including social and labor Procurement, Supply Chain and RD&I (which are made aspects) and our governance processes. Corporate Each business carried out a pilot assessment in 2014, up of both corporate and business representatives), are compliance and audit processes are supplemented and held a Business Area moderation meeting to review in place to support the implementation of the functional by specialist functional audits. These standards are and compare the results, identify areas of common strategy, including the sustainability elements. also the basis of our supplier management processes improvement potential and areas of good practice. and investment assessments. Where there are specific The credibility of the total AkzoNobel results was then The safety, product stewardship, employee and sustainability risks or issues of concern to stakeholders, reviewed by senior Business Area representatives. environmental foundation elements are managed by the we develop a company position and an improvement plan HR and HSE cross-business management processes. owned by a subject matter expert. The results helped all our businesses to identify specific The Compliance framework and the management areas for improvement and some common opportunities. structure for integrity and compliance aspects are Priorities for 2015 include: detailed in the Governance and compliance section under • Working with suppliers to identify and deliver cost Compliance and integrity management. effective carbon footprint improvements • Equipping a broader range of managers/employees across functions to drive sustainability improvements AkzoNobel Report 2014 | Sustainability statements 197 2 Note 2: Reporting principles We will use learnings from these pilots to further refine the Benchmark and review Reporting scope tool for full roll-out in 2015. The sustainability aspects material to the company are summarized in the company strategy and sustainability This Report 2014 integrates our financial and sustainability We strive to empower all employees to contribute and framework. These are reviewed annually with input from reporting and is addressed to readers interested in both be accountable for our sustainability performance, using internal and external stakeholders (see Materiality in areas. In particular, we seek ways of linking sustainability training and other engagement processes, including Note 2 of this section). Full details of the boundaries and performance to business results in areas such as resource business and site level activity, as well as web-based management processes for each aspect are included in efficiency, carbon emission reduction, eco-premium resources. This responsibility continues to be anchored the Global Reporting Initiative G4 additional information solutions, safety, people development and engagement, in the personal targets and remuneration packages of document, which is available on our corporate website. and operational eco-efficiency. managers and employees. Since 2009, half (from 2013 onwards 30 percent) of the conditional grant of shares We also benchmark our performance against our peers The information in this Report 2014 offers an update on for Board members and all executives is based on using external assessment processes such as the our implementation of the ten principles of the United AkzoNobel’s performance in the RobecoSAM assessment ­RobecoSAM assessment for the Dow Jones Nations Global Compact (UNGC). More sustainability over a three-year period (see Remuneration report in the Sustainability Indices. information is available on our corporate website, including Governance and compliance section). an index of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4 indicators and a summary of our UNGC communication of progress. The topics in this Report 2014 were selected on the basis of the sustainability aspects of our strategy, the GRI G4 guidelines and input from various external stakeholders. These include our engagement with: • Shareholders • Customers • Employees • Rating organizations, notably RobecoSAM – the rating agency for the Dow Jones Sustainability Indices – and the Carbon Disclosure Project • Sustainability organizations such as the World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD), Forum for the Future and the International Integrated Reporting Council 198 Sustainability statements | AkzoNobel Report 2014 Reporting process Reporting policies Our value chain (cradle-to-grave) carbon footprint and assurance Reporting boundaries is measured per metric ton of product sales leaving AkzoNobel. In 2012, the definition of product was clarified The reporting period is 2014. Data has mainly been The Report 2014 integrates sustainability aspects of our to reduce variability in the indicator. It now excludes sold obtained from our financial management reporting processes and business operations in each section, in by-products and sold energy. Previous years’ data have systems, corporate HR information management systems, particular the How we create value, Strategic performance, been restated on the same basis, so there was no impact corporate compliance information reporting systems and Business performance and Governance and compliance on the percentage change in carbon footprint. For our the AkzoNobel corporate reporting systems for health, sections. own operations, environmental impact and improvements safety and environment performance indicators, each of are quoted relative to production quantity, i.e. the product which have associated approval and verification processes. This Sustainability statements section summarizes the volumes leaving every manufacturing plant. These processes continue to be updated and improved. global, cross-business elements of the sustainability Data collection for the newer value chain reporting aspects agenda and company performance. It includes quantitative Since 2013, we include the climate impact of VOCs in our is carried out using standard templates and procedures. and qualitative information relating to the calendar year overall carbon footprint targets. This increased our scope 3 More details on all reporting processes are available on 2014 and comparative data for 2013, 2012 and 2011. downstream CO2(e) by about three million tons. The 2012 our website. We report on consolidated data from entities where data have been restated to provide a sound baseline for AkzoNobel is the majority shareholder (more than 50 our 2012 to 2020 targets. We are confident in the overall reliability of the data percent) and joint ventures where we have management reported, but recognize that some of the information is control, but exclude all data from entities where we have We identify issues that affect comparability in the text or subject to an element of uncertainty, inherent to limitations minority ownership, or no management control. footnotes. associated with measuring and calculating data. Senior managers approved the content and the quantitative data Comparability used in the Sustainability statements section relating to Since 2010, we report acquisitions from the date of their respective areas of responsibility. The integration of purchase, recognizing that reporting improvements may be sustainability in day-to-day business is part of our routine required at these facilities. Recent significant changes: internal audit process. • 2014 data includes updated definitions on regulatory actions and executive potential. See also Note 11 and The Sustainability statements section has been reviewed Note 12 respectively. It also includes the result of the by independent, external auditors. The Assurance report, divestment of our Building Adhesives business including the scope of the audit, can be found in the • 2013 data excludes Chemicals Pakistan as it was Independent assurance report at the end of this section. divested at the end of 2012. We include data from Decorative Paints North America until April 1, 2013, when it was divested • 2012 data includes the Boxing Oleochemicals acquisition and our new facilities at Ningbo, China • 2011 data includes the acquisition of the Schramm/ SSCP businesses AkzoNobel Report 2014 | Sustainability statements 199 Materiality matrix Materiality We have used the principle of materiality to assess the 12 topics to include in this Report 2014, which are current and 1 important for the company and key stakeholders. In order to determine the materiality of topics, we made High a long list of all (more than 200) possible material topics, 4 using the following as our key sources: • The AkzoNobel strategy 2 • The AkzoNobel Report 2013 • Issues raised by investor associations such as the Materiality for stakeholders VBDO 10 3 • Reporting guidelines and frameworks such as GRI G4 and SASB 9 • Sustainability ratings agencies such as RobecoSAM and Carbon Disclosure Project 18 14 8 • The most recent reporting of peers Medium 15 • Media analysis This long list was then reduced by reviewing the dominance 6 of the topics, before being clustered into 18 final topics 16,17 11 which are plotted in the matrix opposite. 7 A full explanation of each topic featured in the matrix can 5 be found on the next page. For further information please go to www.akzonobel.com/sustainability Low 13 Low Medium High Materiality for AkzoNobel 200 Sustainability statements | AkzoNobel Report 2014 Sustainability topics Economic Importance Qualitative information Quantitative information Reported 4 Integrity High Insight on policies and procedures Code of Conduct reporting, Code of Conduct investigation, Report 2014: Integrity and compliance, website Compliance monitoring, Code of Conduct training 5 Customer needs High Insight on end-user segment trends – Report 2014: How we create value, Customer excellence programs Strategic performance, Business performance 9 Circular economy principles High Renewable energy and raw material Renewable raw materials, Renewable energy Report 2014: Business performance, programs, waste reuse Sustainability statements Notes 4 and 5 11 Economic performance and High Market segmentation Economic performance and strategy Report 2014: How we create value, strategy Description of economic performance Strategic performance, Business performance 13 Product and margin High Operational excellence initiatives – Report 2014: Strategic performance, management Business performance 17 Resource scarcity/ Medium Risk description and mitigation actions Renewable raw materials, Renewable energy Report 2014: Risk management, Business performance, material availability risks Renewable energy and raw material Sustainability statements Notes 4 and 5 programs Environmental 1 Energy, resource use, High Value chain descriptions Resource Efficiency Index, Cradle-to-grave carbon footprint, Renewable raw Report 2014: How we create value, carbon emissions throughout Insight on impacts throughout the materials, Energy use, Renewable energy, Greenhouse gas emissions per ton Strategic Performance, Business performance the value chain value chain of production Sustainability statements Notes 4, 5, 15, 16 and website 3 Eco-premium solutions and High Lifecycle assessment value chain Eco-premium solutions with downstream benefits, Eco-premium solutions Report 2014: How we create value, value chain management impacts VOC in product Strategic performance, Business performance, Customer partnership solutions Sustainability statements Notes 4 and 5 7 Product stewardship High Priority substance management Priority substances with management plan, REACH compliance Report 2014: Strategic performance, Regulatory affairs Sustainability statements Note 10 10 Sustainability in the Medium Supplier sustainability framework Third party audits, Supplier Support Visits, Vendor Policy compliance, Report 2014: Sustainability statements Note 7 supply chain program Environmental supply chain aspects 12 Climate change Medium Climate change risk management, Cradle-to-grave footprint, Greenhouse gas emissions per ton of production Report 2014: How we create value, mitigation and adaption policies Strategic performance, Business performance, Sustainability statements Notes 4 and 5 15 Operational eco-efficiency Medium Operational eco-efficiency program Operational eco-efficiency footprint measure Report 2014: How we create value, and management Strategic performance, Business performance, Sustainability statements Notes 15-20 18 Biodiversity Low Climate change, Pollution control – Report 2014: Sustainability statements Notes 3, 5, 15-20 Social 2 People and process safety High Insight on policies and procedures Reportable injury rate, Behavior-based safety program, Life-Saving Rules, Report 2014: How we create value, Regulatory actions, Loss of containment Strategic performance, Business performance, Sustainability statements Notes 8 and 9 6 Employee engagement High Insight on policies and procedures Employee engagement survey Report 2014: How we create value, Strategic performance, Business performance, Sustainability statements Note 12 8 Talent management High Insight on policies and procedures Cross-BU moves of leadership talents, Internal promotion into executive level, Report 2014: How we create value, Retention of leadership talent, ViewPoint score on learning and growth, Female Strategic performance, Business performance, executives, Female executive potentials, High growth market executives, High Sustainability statements Note 12 growth market executive potentials 10 Sustainability in the Medium Supplier sustainability framework Third party audits, Supplier Support Visits, Vendor Policy compliance, Report 2014: Integrity and compliance, supply chain programs, Human rights Social supply chain aspects Sustainability statements Note 7 commitment program 14 Stakeholder engagement Medium Framework activities Sustainability ratings, Agency rankings Report 2014: Sustainability statements Note 3, website 16 Community involvement Medium Human Cities initiative, Community Projects involved, Volunteers, Donations Report 2014: Human Cities, Case studies, Strategic program, Business activities performance, Sustainability statements Note 14, website AkzoNobel Report 2014 | Sustainability statements 201 3 Note 3: Stakeholder engagement Our approach Stakeholder engagement in 2014 encourage customers to challenge us and work together with us. Part of this approach is to include customer The aim of our ongoing stakeholder engagement is Our commitment and primary partners sessions in our quarterly Sustainability Council meetings. to learn from key financial, social and environmental We support a number of charters and external organizations In 2014, international shipping company Maersk stakeholder groups and, in collaboration, to develop to demonstrate our commitment to sustainability issues. We participated in one of these meetings to share knowledge innovative and sustainable solutions to address some of have been a signatory to the UN Global Compact since 2004. and best practice and identify areas where we can work the world’s most pressing challenges. Our Planet Possible We are a partner of the Caring for Climate platform and an together to reinforce our sustainability efforts. There are agenda is not only designed to help drive innovation and active member of the Global Compact Netherlands Network: many more specific examples in the various case studies enable us to become radically resource efficient, it’s also in 2014, we laid the groundwork to participate in a project to and the Business performance section of this Report intended to inspire employees, customers, suppliers explore how to improve awareness and build capability in the 2014. In addition, we are in the process of improving our and other key stakeholders to work together with us in area of human rights in four key countries – Indonesia, Mexico, methods to monitor customer engagement and customer achieving this. South Africa and Turkey – that will take place in 2015. satisfaction. Reaching out to all our stakeholders in ongoing In addition, we subscribe to the UN Universal Declaration AkzoNobel’s Ferrazone iron fortificant is making an conversation and dialog is vital to achieving our goals and of Human Rights; the key conventions of the International important contribution to the Millennium Development to further developing our long-term vision and strategy Labor Organization; the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Goals of the United Nations. Ferrazone is a bioavailable in all areas of sustainability. Our key stakeholders are Enterprises; the Responsible Care® Global Charter and the iron source designed to help fight global anemia, an effort employees, suppliers, customers, investors, shareholder CEO Water Mandate. supported through partnerships with the Amsterdam representative groups, NGOs and international Initiative on Malnutrition (AIM), the Global Alliance for organizations, governments, industry associations, In order to contribute to, and keep up to date with, important Improved Nutrition (GAIN) and the project Smarter Futures. sustainability rating agencies and communities. Based on developments in sustainability, we participate in meetings the company strategy, emerging societal and business and task forces as a member of organizations such as the In 2014, millions of people benefited from programs issues, and the outcomes of our materiality analysis, WBCSD, Forum for the Future, True Price and the Dutch to fortify staple foods with Ferrazone. An important we identify the key topics and levels of engagement Sustainable Growth Coalition (DSGC). Our CEO was a keynote milestone was the signing of a new long-term agreement per stakeholder group, which can vary from pro-active speaker at the DSGC event in December. He addressed an to collaborate in a private-public partnership with NGOs, engagement to providing information upon request. audience which included Her Majesty Queen Máxima of the the Dutch Ministry of Foreign Affairs and other leading Netherlands and international industry leaders on innovation, companies. The parties agreed to set up a quality This section includes several 2014 highlights. More details collaboration and technology in sustainability. improvement network in Africa which will comprise of can be found on our corporate website, in the Strategic facilities along the food production value chain: a field performance section and other chapters of this Since 2010, we have been a member of Worldconnectors, testing facility, a laboratory facility performing a full range Report 2014: a Dutch-based initiative working to broaden the discussion of food analyses, an auditing and certification facility • Customers: Business performance section on international issues by incorporating perspectives from a and a financing facility supporting applicants to finance • Investors: Governance and compliance section cross-generational network. In 2014 we were one of more their quality assurance and control related investments. • Specific sustainability/research organizations and than 60 signatories to their Post-2015 Charter, committing AkzoNobel is responsible for the development and NGOs: Note 3 of this section to contribute to the achievement of the United Nations validation of analysis methods for iron, zinc, calcium and • Employees: Note 6 of this section Sustainable Development Goals (2015-2030). iodine in fortified food, as well as providing technical • Suppliers: Note 7 of this section assistance and training of laboratory staff and advising on • Communities: Note 14 of this section Customers and products best practice laboratory management. Our customers are increasingly looking for products and solutions that will make their business more sustainable. In order to continuously improve our product offering, we 202 Sustainability statements | AkzoNobel Report 2014 AkzoNobel has been a global partner of the Forest Suppliers and sourcing Engaging employees Stewardship Council (FSC) since 2010 with the aim of During 2014, we continued to engage with Together for During 2014, we continued to engage employees from growing awareness of responsible forestry worldwide. Sustainability (TfS), a chemical sector initiative designed around the world on the theme of sustainability through We proudly display the partnership logo on packaging to create more sustainable supply chains. TfS is a our Planet Possible concept. for our wood care products. In 2014, awareness of the collaboration founded by the Chief Procurement Officers AkzoNobel-sponsored Smallholder Support Program was of BASF, Bayer, Evonik, Henkel, Lanxess and Solvay For more information, see Note 6 of this section. raised with the launch of the “Made with Heart” campaign. and aims to build the industry’s standard for sustainable With the mandate of its membership, and with support supply chains. The TfS program utilizes high quality third Energy and climate from AkzoNobel, in 2012, FSC developed a specific party sustainability assessments and audits in order to Our aim is to achieve cost effective energy sources on-product label – the Small and Community Label measure the supplier’s sustainability performance against a and maximize sustainable impact while being prepared Option (SCLO) – to increase the visibility of small-scale pre-defined set of industry best practice criteria. for future developments. For our energy-intensive producers in the market place. When consumers buy a production processes, AkzoNobel is actively engaging in product carrying the “Made with Heart” concept, they are To enhance the importance and development of diversifying the energy-mix to lower risks and enhance assured that the product originates from a community that sustainable value chains, we’ve been supporting the our sustainability performance by reducing our carbon is dedicated to protecting natural resources, and which organization of the International Supply Management footprint and increasing the use of renewable energy. benefits from this both financially and socially. Congress in Amsterdam since 2010. This is a joint In 2014, we strengthened and intensified our dialog with initiative with IDH, PwC, NEVI (Dutch knowledge network key stakeholders at European Union (EU) and national Besides strengthening the link on a global level, we will for purchasing and supply management), Shell, DSM levels on issues regarding the reform of the Emissions also continue to increase the ten active local partnerships and Unilever. The event is a meeting point for sharing Trading Scheme (ETS), improving the conditions for we have between FSC and AkzoNobel in the Netherlands, knowledge, experience and best practices across supply sustainable supply of steam from biomass and waste and UK, Germany, Switzerland, Czech Republic, Brazil, Russia, chain professionals, NGOs and thought leaders. The focus the better functioning of the EU internal energy market. the Nordics, Argentina and Poland, year-on-year. for 2014 was on the future of supply management and In addition, we engaged in a number of consortia on perspectives through new partnerships. innovations in bio-based chemistry. We also worked In June 2014, the Sustainable Trade Initiative on Pulp & on stronger engagement with stakeholders around our Paper (STIPP) was launched to help sustainability become For more information, see Note 7 of this section. production locations to increase the use and integration of the norm in the pulp and paper industry. STIPP is a sectorrenewable energy into our energy-mix. wide initiative co-founded by IDH (The Sustainable Trade Initiative), Asia Pulp and Paper Group and AkzoNobel and We co-chair the WBCSD Chemicals Sector Working supported by the Indonesian Ministry of Forestry and the Group, which has been developing a consensus approach Indonesia Pulp & Paper Association. This partnership is a to some aspects of lifecycle assessment. Together with result of our customers’ needs for sustainable pulp and peers, we have developed two chemical sector guidelines paper products, which is why we are intensely involved to drive consistent and comparable reporting of both in providing clean technologies for pulp and paper the environmental footprint of chemical products and production. carbon avoided emissions. It is a global effort which also involved relevant stakeholders in the process of developing a harmonized approach towards the calculation of environmental impacts along the value chain. AkzoNobel Report 2014 | Sustainability statements 203 Developing good practice Furthermore, we participated in a workshop about Shareholders, analysts and indices As part of our efforts for continuous improvement and the business and human rights impacts in China from the We continuously developed our engagement with development of good practice, we participate in a range of Dutch Social and Economic Council (SER). shareholders and investors on sustainability aspects by activities that offer the opportunity to learn from and share taking part in conferences and meetings during the year, and engage with a broad group of stakeholders. We took part in the biennial meeting of the United Nations as well as answering questions in telephone briefings and Global Alliance to Eliminate Lead in Paint (GAELP) questionnaires. In addition, in May 2014, we organized We are incorporating natural capital thinking to ensure and were able to inform the 20 countries present that our first Social Responsible Investor (SRI) conference call, our business is sustainable as it grows. We continue AkzoNobel does not add lead compounds to any of its which was attended by a range of more than 40 SRI and to use our membership of the International Union for products. We were also invited to participate in a public mainstream investors. Questions during 2014 focused Conservation of Nature’s (IUCN) business engagement workshop organized by Chemsec to exchange knowledge on financial and environmental benefits from sustainability network Leaders for Nature, in place since 2006, to and share our approach to priority substances with other activity and solutions for customers, raw materials supply understand and develop our biodiversity priorities. The companies, government representatives and NGOs. and carbon policy, as well as safety and the development main focus for our own operations is on climate change and training of employees. mitigation (through the adoption of a carbon mitigation To help us in further developing integrated reporting and policy) and pollution control (monitoring air, water, and transparency, AkzoNobel was one of the pilot companies Sustainability aspects of business are also included in soil emissions). During the year, a development activity for the International Integrated Reporting Council program many analyst and general shareholder presentations. took place focused on our raw materials, when our to create a forward-looking company reporting framework, Following the 2014 AGM, for example, the Dutch 2014 Leaders for Nature group researched the impact of and provided company input to the working group. Association of Investors for Sustainable Development soybeans on deforestation in South America. We are now a member of the business network, made (VBDO) indicated they would like to see a more long-term up of companies committed to making the framework a strategy in the areas of eco-efficiency and renewable raw Our product portfolio includes solutions that deliver both practical reality. Learnings from this program are included materials. This has been covered by the new environmental and social benefits to our customers throughout this Report 2014. Planet Possible agenda that was launched in 2013. and wider society. While processes for measuring environmental benefit are well advanced, social impact measurement is less well developed. Therefore, we contributed to the Roundtable for Social Metrics and the WBCSD social metrics working group, working together with leaders in the industry to develop ways of quantifying the social challenges we are facing. Ultimately, this process will enable us to identify areas that require attention and drive further improvements. 204 Sustainability statements | AkzoNobel Report 2014 Investors make use of sustainability rating agencies. An overview of the agencies and their ratings can be found in the table below: Sustainability rating agencies RobecoSAM We were industry group leader for the third consecutive year, (Dow Jones Sustainability Index) and have been in the top three for the last nine years. CDP We have participated in the CDP assessments since 2007 and qualified for the Benelux Climate Disclosure Leadership Index (CDL) 2014. Sustainalytics Sustainalytics has covered us in their rating since 2004. For the second year in a row, we rank first in the Chemicals Industry ranking. Oekom Oekom research has analyzed us since 2001. We have been awarded Oekom Prime status since 2012. We currently rank in the top five chemical companies. Vigeo Vigeo has rated us since 1999. In 2014, we were among their leader group in ESG performance, resulting in inclusion in all their ethical indices. For an overview of our listing on sustainable stock indices, turn to AkzoNobel on the capital markets in the Governance and compliance section. AkzoNobel Report 2014 | Sustainability statements 205 Measuring our impact in 4D As a global company In order to get a more detailed insight into how our profit and loss is generated, we want to develop a deeper understanding across the value chain of how our business impacts the active in numerous environment, people and society at large. Gaining a better understanding of these aspects – and attaching a monetary value to them – will enable us to identify possible improvements markets, AkzoNobel is and ultimately increase business value. similar to many other We carried out a pilot study during 2014 at our Pulp and Performance Chemicals business in Brazil, which specifically looked at our environmental, human, social and financial impact. large organizations. By measuring these four dimensions across the whole value chain – including raw materials, sodium chlorate production and the use of sodium chlorate in pulp production by our We generate revenue, customers – as well as attaching an economic value to the positive and negative aspects of each, we were able to identify where we can improve. This new insight will enable us to make incur costs and create better business decisions by reducing the negatives and building on the positives. value for shareholders. Results Looking at the results of the pilot (outlined in the chart below), we found that the impact on However, we believe financial capital was positive and substantially higher than the traditional profit calculation. This is because when combined, salaries, taxes and interest payments make a substantial that economic growth contribution to wealth in society. cannot be sustained if the underlying natural Monetized impact across the whole value chain (indicative1) Natural capital Human capital and social capital upon Social capital Financial capital which wealth creation + + + + + + + + + + + depends is depleted. + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – Upstream Our operations Energy supply Downstream Total value chain 1 These indicative results are based on work carried out in cooperation with TruePrice and Pavan Sukhdev (GIST) 206 Sustainability statements | AkzoNobel Report 2014 The impact on natural capital was largely negative, mainly due to the use of oil and natural gas and emissions such as carbon dioxide, sulfur dioxide and nitrogen dioxide to air across the value chain. The positive human impact resulted from employee training programs and career opportunities, while the impact on social capital was limited, due to the nature of the industry within the scope of the pilot, which has larger production volumes and involves fewer people compared with other industries. What we learned Imperatriz We teamed up with experts in this field, such as TruePrice and Pavan Sukhdev (GIST) and derived some interesting learnings from this new approach. Regarding the environmental impact, we were fully aware that the production of sodium chlorate requires significant amounts of energy. We have already taken major steps to be as efficient as possible and, in addition, have built a number of our plants in close proximity to Bahia our customers’ pulp mills. These so-called Chemical Islands use 100 percent biomass for energy generation. However, it’s clear that there are further opportunities for us to reduce the environmental footprint. This can be achieved by increasing the share of hydropower in our electricity mix, looking further into using electricity more efficiently, exploring options to improve the transportation of raw materials and strengthening the collaboration with our customers when choosing bio-based chemicals in their production. Jupia We have also learned that an analysis of human capital creation and human capital Três Lagoas externalities can be used to estimate the return on training investments and to benchmark Jacareí comparable units. By knowing the human capital, measures can be taken to retain employee Jundiaí groups of particularly high value. Pulp and In the social dimension, Pulp and Performance Chemicals can improve the value of social Performance Chemicals capital externalities through targeted intervention which addresses material social risks, production sites in Brazil identified by carrying out a risk assessment. Furthermore, looking at the full value chain, social capital can be enhanced by creating awareness and continuous improvement on issues around health and safety, rights at work and with local communities. To conclude, a study such as this increases internal transparency and creates a sense of urgency, while also improving the quality of strategic decision-making. Next steps The findings are already being used to make relevant improvements at the six plants in Brazil where the pilot was conducted. We’re also looking at scaling up the project and introducing it throughout our Pulp and Performance Chemicals business. AkzoNobel Report 2014 | Sustainability statements 207 Value chain management Our sustainability objective is to create more value from • Value for society through the positive impact of our Lifecycle assessment fewer resources – right across the value chain. products in our end-user segments • Value for our business by focusing on our end-user Lifecycle thinking is the basis for all our sustainability • Value for our customers by providing products with segments – delivering growth and profitability work. Our standard assessment method is eco-efficiency excellent functionality that generate resource/energy There are three aspects for the delivery of this value chain analysis (EEA), based on a combination of lifecycle benefits ahead of competitive products strategy, which are summarized over the following pages: assessments and lifecycle costing. Assessment work is • Value for the environment through more effective use of • Sustainable business carried out by business and company level specialists natural resources and a significant reduction in specific • Resource efficiency and is based on ISO 14040-44 and a company lifecycle greenhouse gas emissions across the value chain • Capable engaged people assessment database. Lifecycle assessment has been included in a range of processes for many years. The company is currently Key performance indicators – value chain developing a number of common processes – either at Target Target company or Business Area level, which will also include 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2020 lifecycle ­thinking. Sustainable business Resource Efficiency Index (2012 baseline) 94 100 98 96 – – Innovation process Eco-premium solutions with downstream benefit – 17 18 19 – 20 The new Innovation process for product and process (% of revenue) developments covers an assessment of market segments Eco-premium solutions total (% of revenue) 22 22 24 24 30 – and strategic alignment, including sustainability. VOC in product (% reduction from 2009) 6 10 7 n/a – – AkzoNobel’s eco-premium solutions concept requires Resource efficiency the assessment of sustainability aspects along the value Carbon footprint cradle-to-grave per ton of product sales – 0 2 -4 – 25-30 chain. It encourages the development of more innovative, (% reduction from 2012) sustainable products. We continuously aim to reduce the Carbon footprint cradle-to-gate per ton of product sales 3 1 4 0 10 – (% reduction from 2009)1 environmental footprint of our product value chains. Carbon footprint own operations (million tons of CO2(e)) 4.8 4.7 3.9 3.9 <4.6 <4.6 Renewable energy own operations (%) – 33 31 34 – 45 Carbon footprint assessment Renewable raw materials (% of organics) – 13 13 13 – – We measure the carbon footprint of all our key value chains (374 in 2014) using a full cradle-to-grave, or Supplier management screening, lifecycle assessment. Critical PR2 spend covered by supplier management – 69 80 83 88 – ­framework (% of spend) PR2 suppliers signed Vendor Policy (% of spend) 95 97 96 98 98 – Commercial excellence processes NPR suppliers signed Vendor Policy (% of spend) 3 77 80 83 80 80 – Including sustainability in marketing propositions is an Suppliers on SSV program since 2007 304 373 392 432 – – essential aspect of our Planet Possible agenda. We are developing environmental product declarations 1 2011-2012 restated due to KVC review. 2 Product related (raw materials and packaging). (EPDs) for some products as part of our marketing activity. 3 Non-product related. 208 Sustainability statements | AkzoNobel Report 2014 4 Note 4: Sustainable business Investment decisions Resource Efficiency Index However, alongside these positive factors we have seen All our major investment proposals (more than €5 million) tighter margins, together with expansion in markets that require a sustainability evaluation alongside the financial The adoption of a Resource Efficiency Index as a key are slower in adopting low VOC coatings and have a high case. This includes assessments at different stages in the financial indicator results from the conviction that global proportion of high carbon energy supplies. The drop this project development. At the point of application for capital, population growth and increasing resource constraints will year is due to our carbon footprint performance: we have the requirements include an eco-efficiency assessment, drive new business models in the materials and energy initiated a detailed review of our plans to achieve this as well as a full review of health and safety, process and intensive industry sectors. In the chemicals industry, 2020 target. product safety, natural resource/raw material requirements sustained business success will require product and and environmental impacts. The proposals are reviewed process innovations that generate much more added value by subject matter experts, who give input to the from each unit of raw materials and energy used across Resource Efficiency Index Executive Committee, to provide a strong basis for the the value chain – be it with our suppliers, in our own gross margin/CO2(e) indexed investment decision. operations or with the users of our products. 100 98 95 94 96 90 The Resource Efficiency Index is defined as gross margin Other value chain aspects divided by cradle-to-grave carbon footprint – reported as an index. The index development was based on input from While we focus on carbon footprint as a proxy for raw a range of financial analysts and environmental specialists material and energy efficiency, our lifecycle assessment and wide internal consultation: 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 considers a range of impacts. In 2014, this included: • We selected gross margin as an indicator of added Resource Efficiency Index is gross margin divided by cradle-to-grave carbon footprint, value as it is comparatively stable and captures the expressed as an index. The index is set at 100 for 2012, since this is the baseline Biodiversity effects of efficiency improvements year for the strategic sustainability objectives. REI 2009-2011 is indicative and has been approximated. Cradle-to-grave carbon We continue to work alongside the IUCN Leaders for • Carbon footprint is a good proxy for resource efficiency data for 2009-2011 is based on: • Cradle-to-gate carbon data as measured and reported Nature program following on from the 2013 hotspot across our value chains • Gate-to-grave carbon data has been extrapolated based on 2012 data, adjusted evaluation in our value chains. The focus for 2014 has for product volumes in 2009-2011 been on sourcing of renewable raw materials. We are initially monitoring the Resource Efficiency Index and expect it to be a long-term indicator for AkzoNobel. Although margin variability may affect performance in any given year, the long-term trend must be upwards. A review of our performance over the past six years reveals a variable trend. We have seen increases from factors such as: • Improvements in energy efficiency • Increased renewable and low carbon energy supply • The ongoing switch towards waterborne coatings • Margin improvements as a result of higher value added products AkzoNobel Report 2014 | Sustainability statements 209 Eco-premium solutions Recent examples of EPS with downstream benefits In 2014, revenue from eco-premium products and include: services with downstream benefits totaled €2.7 billion, or We maintain our intention to lead by example in the • EvCote barrier coatings: Used for beverage and 19 percent of total revenue. Revenue from all eco-premium area of improving the sustainability and environmental food paper packaging, particularly for single serving solutions (with benefits anywhere in the value chain) performance of our products and processes, which uses such as paper cups and French fry sleeves, which were €3.5 billion, or 24 percent of total revenue. we measure through our development of eco-premium provide a unique sustainability offering due to the use solutions (EPS). They are a fundamental driver of our of recycled and bio-renewable components in the base Eco-premium solutions with downstream benefits Planet Possible agenda for creating more value from resin. A zero VOC waterborne coating with the ability in % of revenue fewer resources and minimizing the environmental impact/ to be re-pulped, recycled or composted after use. The Target footprint of the products we sell and the processes we use current use of fluorocarbon waxes or polyethylene as to manufacture them. the coating automatically consigns the used packaging to landfill 18 19 20 17 EPS are defined as being new products and processes • Dulux Forest Breath: A high performance waterborne that meet the sustainability-related criteria set out below. interior wood stain for the Chinese market which has When assessed across the entire value chain, against anti-bacterial properties and improves indoor air quality currently available solutions in the market, they provide the by absorbing and destroying atmospheric formaldehyde 2012 2013 2014 2020 same or better functionality and offer significantly better – enhancing the well-being of families performance in at least one of the following aspects: • Ecosel AsphaltProtection: An environmentally • Toxicity and eco-toxicity harmless additive for de-icing which prevents formation Eco-premium solutions with downstream benefits • Energy efficiency/consumption of hard ice inside asphalt pores and substantially per Business Area • Use of natural/renewable raw materials reduces frost damage to roads. Proven to reduce winter • Emissions and waste road damage by up to 50 percent, the additive enables in % of revenue 2012 2013 2014 • Land use substantial savings on road maintenance, repair and the Decorative Paints 22 27 27 • Risks (in production, transportation, use or disposal) consumption of asphalt and also makes a significant Performance Coatings 13 13 15 • Health and well-being contribution to traffic safety Specialty Chemicals 16 16 17 • Sikkens Rubbol Express: Cobalt-free decorative They also have no adverse impacts in their performance in paints, available as extremely fast-drying primers and Year-on-year progress will be impacted not only by our any one of these aspects. best-in-class leveling high gloss top coats. Excellent own innovation drive, but also by competitor activity and drying times in adverse climatic conditions, enabling legislation changes. Furthermore, the introduction of new Introduced in 2012, EPS with downstream benefits is a outdoor painting at temperatures between 3°C and products into the market whose performances equal those measure which focuses on products and services that 30°C throughout the year of our current EPS offering will redefine the standards that provide customers and consumers in our downstream • LignuPro: A label-free, ultra-low formaldehyde emitting we will have to surpass to acquire future EPS status. value chain with the same sustainability advantages as adhesive for the internal wood flooring market. The only those defined as criteria for the broader, historical EPS product on the market which has been awarded French measure above. EPS with downstream benefits deliver A+ air quality certification, while maintaining excellent advantages to our direct customers: through their use as bonding strength and passing the ANSI bonding tests components/ingredients in our customers’ products; their use by consumers; or in their end-of-life phase – be that disposal, recycling or re-use. 210 Sustainability statements | AkzoNobel Report 2014 Eco-premium solutions in % of revenue VOC in products Our evaluation for 2013 shows that compared with our starting position in 2009, we realized a 7 percent reduction Target In 2009, we embarked on our VOC challenge to manage in average VOC content across our coatings and paints 30 the transition to a product portfolio lower in average product ranges. This compares to a 10 percent reduction 22 22 24 24 volatile organic compound (VOC) content, and to minimize achieved in 2012. While we see a declining trend in the 21 18 the potential social and environmental impact from these VOC content in all our Decorative Paints activities, our substances. While our vigilance in driving technological divestment of the North America and Building Adhesives change towards reduced VOC content is unchanged, businesses – which were comparatively low in VOC 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 we maintain a close eye on developments in the content – has resulted in an increase in the VOC content marketplace and changes in our sales mix. across the resulting product mix. If we correct for these divestments, the VOC content of the total AkzoNobel Eco-premium solutions per Business Area In our Decorative Paints products, we are introducing product portfolio reduced by 3 percent between 2012 and reformulated products with much reduced and virtually 2013. Both Decorative Paints and Performance Coatings in % of revenue 2012 2013 2014 zero VOC content and this reduction trend will continue contributed to this reduction. Decorative Paints 26 35 33 in the future. Our Performance Coatings business is also Performance Coatings 14 13 15 achieving a declining average VOC content, despite the Specialty Chemicals 25 26 27 significant technical challenges involved in maintaining product performance while reducing VOC content. We are keenly aware, however, that although we are making technological progress, we must also keep up with the market and match our product offering to customer demand. For example, while we have key projects in place in the Chinese coatings market, this market is still not migrating as quickly as other regions towards low or zero VOC products. AkzoNobel Report 2014 | Sustainability statements 211 Paint that keeps you cool There are lots of cool cities around the world, but how do you keep a city cool? Not only do many of them have to cope with sizzling summer temperatures, they also have to withstand urban heat island effects and – in several regions – the growing impact of global warming. For many homes and buildings, the answer is air conditioning, but this requires significant amounts of energy. For example, according to government figures, 34 percent of household power in Singapore is used for cooling interiors. In an effort to help tackle the problem, our coatings scientists developed Weathershield KeepCool, an exterior paint which can reflect up to 85 percent more infrared radiation than comparable exterior paints. When applied to the outside of a house or building, the product reduces the amount of heat being transferred to the interior, which means less energy has to be used to keep it cool. Tests conducted by an independent consultancy in Singapore have shown that energy savings may be as much as 10 percent for a typical 15-storey building and 15 percent for an average house. This ability to reduce heat absorption and lower energy consumption is typical of AkzoNobel’s Planet Possible approach to developing more eco-premium solutions that offer sustainability benefits for customers. But Weathershield KeepCool doesn’t just highlight our commitment to doing more with less. It also underlines how sustainable solutions can help the world’s cities to cope with the challenges of the 21st century. 212 Sustainability statements | AkzoNobel Report 2014 Final draft Product benefits: Surface temperature up to 5ºC lower than comparable products Reflects up to 85% more infrared radiation than comparable exterior paints Singapore’s energy savings 10% 15% for a 15-storey for an average Scan and explore building house Final draft AkzoNobel Report 2014 | Sustainability statements 213 5 Note 5: Resource efficiency Cradle-to-grave carbon footprint Carbon footprint cradle-to-grave in million tons of CO2(e) and % reduction per ton of sales We have assessed all Scope 3 categories according to the GHG Protocol Scope 3 standard. (See Scope 3 emissions Scope 3 upstream % reduction CO2(e) per ton of sales In our 2020 sustainability objectives, carbon footprint has Scope 1 & 2 Target on our website). a very important role – not only for its measure of climate -4 Scope 3 downstream -5 impact and protection, but also because we are using it as 0 2 0 More information on our assessment method for carbon a proxy for how efficiently we are using raw materials and footprint cradle-to-grave can be found in Note 2. 5 energy in our products. 30 27.5 26.9 10 26.5 Our target is to reduce our cradle-to-grave carbon 25 15 Management plans footprint by 25 to 30 percent per ton of sales between 20 20 2012 and 2020. Impact from VOC emissions is also 25 We have initiated a detailed review of our plans to achieve 15 included. We will achieve this through innovative products/ 30 this 2020 target. 10 25-30 solutions, technology and energy management and by creating more value from fewer resources. 5 Our businesses have developed quantified carbon 0 management plans that identify specific improvement Our assessment this year indicates a total footprint of 2012 2013 2014 2020 opportunities and programs. These plans are summarized around 27 million tons of CO2(e) and a CO2(e) per ton of The carbon footprint of the six main greenhouse gases is measured from cradle-to-grave at Business Area and company level to manage and follow based on the international Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Protocol and Lifecycle Assessment sold product nearly 4 percent higher than the 2012 level. ISO 14040-44. See Assessment method on our website. up carbon footprint reduction targets. The cradle-to-grave assessment shows that around 40 percent is from raw materials extraction and processing The illustration on the next page highlights the impact of (Scope 3 upstream), 15 percent from our own direct and Cradle-to-grave carbon footprint our main initiatives in different areas of our value chain: indirect emissions from energy consumption (Scope 1 Total in million tons CO2(e) and reduction per ton of sales • Raw materials which are more energy and material and 2), and 45 percent from the use and end-of-life phase efficient for our customers (Scope 3 downstream). 2012 2013 2014 • Improved energy efficiency and fuel mix for our energy Decorative Paints intensive operations We have made some good improvements. New power Total 5.0 4.2 3.9 • Improvements in formulation to reduce product footprint contracts in, for example, Moses Lake and Columbus, % reduction per ton of sales 0 3 0 and increased production in our Chemical Islands (using Performance Coatings The following sections discuss improvement activities for renewable power) have reduced the footprint significantly. Total 13.0 12.9 13.6 raw materials, our operations and in the product solutions Energy efficiency has been improved at several production % reduction per ton of sales 0 0 -2 we deliver to customers. sites, such as Ningbo in China and Columbus in the US. Specialty Chemicals However, these improvements have been outweighed Total 9.5 9.4 9.4 by changes in product mix, a deterioration of power mix % reduction per ton of sales 0 2 -2 in Germany and lower utilization of our CHP unit in the AkzoNobel Netherlands, leading to the use of more power from the Scope 3 upstream 11.0 10.5 10.7 Dutch grid. The absolute carbon footprint of our own Scope 1 & 2* (see note below) 4.4 4.1 4.0 operations has reduced by 17 percent since 2012. Scope 3 downstream 12.1 11.9 12.2 Total 27.5 26.5 26.9 % reduction per ton of sales 0 2 -4 *Scope 1 and 2 includes emissions from our facilities and our own transport, including VOCs. 214 Sustainability statements | AkzoNobel Report 2014 AkzoNobel carbon footprint in million tons CO2(e) that we have taken into account interdependencies with a forward-looking perspective, including sustainability. 11 4 9 3 Complexity reduction So-called slates of raw materials in key areas of spend are being developed. These slates define a core list of preferred materials/suppliers. Health and sustainability aspects, such as product safety and environmental concerns, are key Raw materials Own operations Customer operations End-user End-of-life criteria applied. The objective is to migrate our materials/ suppliers over time on to these core materials, making our Material strategies Energy strategy New developments to reduce Renewable raw value chain less complex and more sustainable. The slate for key raw materials including renewable energy use during product application materials result approach gives clear information on potential business (See Raw material energy (See Deliver business specific plans on p 77) in less fossil carbon strategies) opportunities to improve our value chains – lower cost, (See Renewable energy) in our products improved sustainability and reduced risk. (See Bio-based raw materials) Joint activities Operations management Paints containing less solvents Supplier improvement plans with suppliers Operational eco-efficiency (See VOC in product) We are also working with key suppliers to develop specific (See Supplier (See Operations management improvement plans) and Environment chapter) carbon footprint improvement plans, through operational improvements, material substitution and/or specification optimization. In 2014, this cross-functional supplier Reformulations using lower footprint raw materials and new products with customer benefits (See Eco-premium solutions) engagement has resulted in carbon footprint reductions in Case study examples with lower climate impact (See Planet Possible case studies) the areas of titanium dioxide and packaging. Bio-based raw materials Bio-based raw materials are an important contributor Raw materials A cross-functional approach with our key suppliers is to our sustainability agenda; a considerable share of now set as the standard in our updated key supplier AkzoNobel’s environmental footprint is embodied in the Raw materials contribute around 40 percent to our management process. This enables us to structure the raw materials we buy, and most bio-based materials cradle-to-grave carbon footprint and 63 percent to our cooperation regarding joint sustainability and innovation exhibit lower footprints. While many of our materials are cost of sales. topics with our key suppliers. already bio-based, we are also seeing the construction and commissioning of the first commercial scale Raw material strategies During the year, we continued the development and production facilities for several new additional bio-based The procurement strategy for the next few years is to implementation of our raw material strategies. These raw materials. In order to lead the deployment of these move further beyond availability-price-synergy towards included elements such as material resource planning, materials in our markets, we have been setting up cross-functional sourcing, integration and value chain capacity and supply cover, supplier selection and sourcing partnerships across our supply chain. This supports the orientation. Buying on price will move towards total cost of plans per region, “make” versus “buy” and renewable emergence of a new bio-based industry, and at the same ownership, while selected supplier relationships will move materials. They are also an instrumental tool in reducing time enables AkzoNobel to tap into alternative feedstock towards cooperation and partnering. We see this as a way the footprint of our global value chains. We continuously sources, to be able to offer more sustainable products, to leverage the size and scope of our global business, our review these strategies in an integrated cross-functional and to reduce the cradle-to-grave carbon footprints. position with suppliers and to drive competitive advantage. Project Management Office, run monthly, to embed the overall process and strategy. This process also ensures AkzoNobel Report 2014 | Sustainability statements 215 In 2014, we progressed our existing partnerships and closing the loop by converting waste back into useful The relative increase in renewable raw materials and the announced additional partnerships for several of our key products decrease in inorganic raw materials were mainly the result raw materials: • Sugar beet-derived chemicals: AkzoNobel has of changes in product mix. • Algae-derived oils: The previous joint development joined forces with SuikerUnie, Rabobank, Deloitte, the agreement with biotech company Solazyme has been Investment and Development Agency for the Northern expanded to provide for funded development leading Netherlands (NOM), Groningen Seaports, and the Own operations towards a multi-year supply agreement targeting annual Province of Groningen, to investigate the possibility supply of up to 10,000 tons of renewable Tailored™ of producing chemicals from beet-derived sugar Renewable energy algal oils. The target product is designed to have feedstock. The study aims to identify one or more The energy we use on our sites contributes about 15 improved functional and environmental performance, as successful business cases for commercial production percent to our cradle-to-grave carbon footprint and well as a lower overall cost to AkzoNobel in Delfzijl about 8 percent of our cost of sales. Renewable energy • Biobased epichlorohydrin: In partnership with Solvay is therefore an important aspect of the improvements and epoxy resin producers, we plan to increase the The announced partnerships have the potential to make a required to achieve our 2020 strategic carbon footprint use of bio-based epichlorohydrin to 20 percent of major impact in improving the sustainability of our supply target. AkzoNobel’s global indirect use by 2016 chain in the long term. In 2014, 13 percent of all our • Cellulosic-based acetic acid: We are exploring organic raw materials came from bio-based (renewable) Our Renewable Energy Supply Strategy has three options for acetic acid as a by-product of wood sources (2013: 13 percent). This is 7 percent (2013: focus areas: protecting our current renewable share, processing industries and, together with biorefinery 5 percent) of the total volume of raw materials purchased, participating in cost effective, large energy ventures developer ZeaChem, we are exploring the potential for i.e. including other raw materials such as salt, minerals a large-scale facility in Europe producing acetic acid and clays. (and derivatives) from cellulosic sugars (e.g. forestry Total energy in % by source E waste) Total volume of raw materials in % per source • Bio-based solvents in Latin America: D A Renewable energy 34 This partnership with Solvay-Rhodia targets volumes 13%* B Natural gas 36 A of up to 10 kilotons per year of bio-based solvents by A C Coal 15 C 2017 • Chemicals derived from sunlight and CO2: *13 percent of organic D Nuclear 13 With cleantech company Photanol, we have agreed raw materials are from E Other fossil fuels 2 C to work on “green” chemical building blocks that will B renewable sources. B eventually replace raw materials AkzoNobel currently obtains from fossil-based production. The collaboration is focused on Photanol’s existing proprietary technology, which uses light to directly convert CO2 from the air into Renewable energy predetermined raw materials such as acetic acid and In % of total electricity, Target butanol. The only by-product is oxygen heat and energy use 2012 2013 2014 2020 • Waste-derived chemicals: An agreement with A Renewable raw materials (bio-based) 7 Renewable electricity (%) 39 36 39 – Canada’s Enerkem has been signed to develop a B Fossil-derived materials (petrochemicals) 44 Renewable heat (%) 10 12 14 – project partnership to explore the development of C Inorganic materials (e.g. salt, minerals, clays) 49 Renewable energy (%) 33 31 34 45 waste-to-chemicals facilities in Europe. This is part of a major Dutch partnership to explore the use of waste streams as a feedstock for chemical production, hence 216 Sustainability statements | AkzoNobel Report 2014 and exploring commercially feasible on-site renewable eco-efficiency and cost productivity continue to improve as Customer product solutions energy generation. a result of the program. Our sustainability agenda emphasizes resource The diagram on the previous page details our energy mix Full details of our operational eco-efficiency program are effectiveness and solutions for our customers, which in and renewable energy use. Specific projects implemented included in Notes 15-20. turn help them to be more energy and resource effective. or in progress include: We aim to continue developing more sustainable solutions • Nordic wind consortium VindIn started up its first Finnish Logistics, distribution and car lease and stay ahead of the competition. The headline metric park, being the third park in total, in Svalskulla, Närpes As part of our performance improvement program, we we have used since 2009, eco-premium solutions, on October 1. Five more parks are under development, have started to manage warehousing and logistics at a measures products or solutions which have a significant with the next one to be decided in early 2015 regional AkzoNobel level. This will result in a reduction of benefit ahead of the mainstream products in the market in • Conversion of biomass facilities from electricity to steam warehouses and combined transport solutions. It will also defined sustainability aspects (e.g. GHG emissions) when production, which will double energy output and reduce have a positive effect on our footprint. assessed across the total value chain (see Eco-premium environmental impact solutions). This metric is challenging and is used as a • Explored various consortia on biomass and wind to get We are involved with Smartway in the US and Green driver for more sustainable innovations. A comparison with access to cost effective renewable energy Freight Europe in the EU, focusing on CO2 reduction. mainstream is now being recognized as good practice • At Moses Lake in the US, the energy mix was changed The carbon emission ambition for our own passenger car at many companies and organizations (ref. WBCSD from 73 to 92 percent renewable energy, resulting in a fleet was 130 g/km, which has now been reached. We Addressing the Avoided Emissions Challenge). reduction of 30,000 tons of indirect CO2 have set a new ambition to reach 115 g/km by the end of • Our Pulp and Performance Chemicals business started 2016. In Europe, we reduced from 143 g/km in 2011 to In total, 12 percent of our 2014 revenue was from two new production locations in 2014 (Jupia and 128 g/km in 2014. eco-premium solutions that avoid GHG emissions for our Imperatriz), using 100 percent renewable energy customers, compared with the mainstream solution. Some examples of solutions are UV radiation cured coatings, Due to these initiatives, the proportion of renewable energy more fuel efficient antifoulings for ships and warm mix in our operations increased to 34 percent additives in asphalt. Other products which are helping to (2013: 31 percent). reduce global GHG emissions are not captured by this leading measure. For example, more than 80 percent of Operations management our decorative paints are water based or low/zero VOC AkzoNobel has a strong drive to embed continuous (as opposed to solvent based) and our powder coatings improvement in supply chain management and reduce VOC emissions in use (compared with solvent manufacturing. A company-wide approach has been based alternative solutions). These products are only defined named ALPS (AkzoNobel Leading Performance counted as an eco-premium solution where the standard System). Standardized processes, metrics and training in the market is still solvent based. Another example is programs are part of ALPS. Deployment in all three surfactants manufactured using renewable raw materials Business Areas to all manufacturing sites in AkzoNobel will (rather than petroleum based). continue in the next few years. The program is supported by the AkzoNobel Academy, offering a continuous improvement curriculum, as well as functional training programs. Safety, customer service, AkzoNobel Report 2014 | Sustainability statements 217 6 Note 6: Capable engaged people Suppliers and sourcing Capable engaged employees Customer engagement Working with our suppliers in order to create a sustainable Employees are routinely involved in delivering many Our customers are increasingly looking for products and supply base and deliver customer benefits, as well as aspects of our sustainability agenda, such as improving solutions that will make their business more sustainable. improving resource efficiency, is a fundamental requirement energy or resource efficiency at our sites, developing and In order to meet their current and future needs, we of our strategy. This means that we have to work together selling eco-premium solutions to customers, managing all encourage customers to work with us so that we can effectively. We have supplier management programs in areas of safety and assessing the sustainability aspects deliver breakthrough solutions that provide a downstream place that support both performance improvement and of investments. We want to build on all these activities to sustainability benefit while delivering economic value opportunities for joint developments. One specific project accelerate performance against our objectives. to both parties. In our North American Wood Coatings focuses on the introduction of renewable raw materials in business we have worked closely with a long-standing our supply chains in collaboration with selected partners. Awareness training to help everybody understand their customer to deliver a new formaldehyde-free coating contribution is available for current and new employees system for office furniture. It allows the customer to meet Further information on our engagement with suppliers and through a company level e-learning program, with the latest indoor air quality standards while ensuring better the management processes is included in Note 7. follow-up “events” and business specific programs. levels of product performance compared with its previous Our learning and development specialists are working coating system. to embed the sustainability agenda in all company level management programs in the AkzoNobel Academy. We are equipping our Sales and Marketing employees to The focus in 2014 was an updated Graduate Development initiate Planet Possible conversations with our customers. Program. A number of functional specific programs have Our approach and best practice examples in the Buildings been piloted during the year, with a more structured and Infrastructure end-user segment are highlighted for program starting in 2015. customers in our Planet Possible brochure. Within our Decorative Paints business, we have provided a Planet We continued to drive employee engagement through Possible marketing toolkit for both professional and our Planet Possible sustainability agenda, with webinars consumer brands. and videos. Our Decorative Paints business has progressed with their two-year engagement plan. Using Further information on our work with customers is included a story approach, combined with a competition, overall in the case studies and the Strategic performance section awareness was increased along with an understanding of of this Report 2014. the breadth of sustainability activities taking place across the organization. This approach will be extended across all other businesses in 2015. Employees are also actively involved with their work locations through local Green Teams and community activities around the world. Further information on our employee KPIs and management processes is included in Employees and community under Note 12. 218 Sustainability statements | AkzoNobel Report 2014 7 Note 7: Supplier management AkzoNobel works closely with suppliers to identify and Key performance indicators – supplier management minimize supply chain risks in order to provide secure and Ambition Ambition Ambition sustainable supply to its customers. Supplier management 2011 2012 2013 2014 2014 2015 2016 programs are in place to drive continuous improvement Critical PR1 spend covered by supplier management – 69 80 83 85 88 90 of existing supply chains and also to develop meaningful framework (% of spend) collaboration and joint development opportunities. Product related suppliers signed Vendor Policy (% of spend) 95 97 96 98 96 98 98 NPR2 suppliers signed Vendor Policy (% of spend) 77 80 83 80 80 80 85 We have identified two supplier segments for particular Suppliers on SSV program since 20073 304 373 392 432 – – – attention, based on the potential risks and opportunities: Third party online sustainability assessments4 – – – 539 200 600 – • Critical suppliers are those in high growth countries Third party on-site sustainability audits5 – – – 20 20 40 – where we want to build a long-term, mature supply 1  R = Product related (raw materials and packaging). P base. Selection may be based on risks associated 2 NPR = Non-product related. 3 SSV program targets are included in the Critical PR spend coverage KPI. with labor conditions, environmental performance or 4 Includes TfS shared assessments. business integrity, or security of supply of important 5 Includes TfS shared audits. materials • Key suppliers are selected because of their importance to the business – spend or dependency – as well Our Supplier sustainability framework is founded on In 2013, we began reporting a new KPI: the Critical as the potential for partnership, joint innovation and AkzoNobel’s core principles and company values. We product related (PR) spend that is actively managed collaboration on long-term sustainability initiatives demand the highest ethics and integrity in all supplier by one of our supplier framework processes. This KPI relationships. AkzoNobel’s Vendor Policy links our provides a meaningful measure of how well AkzoNobel In order to improve the alignment between our initiatives principles, values, and Code of Conduct into one cohesive is building the sustainability, capability and capacity of its for all supplier segments, we have enhanced and document which sets out our clear expectations regarding suppliers in critical high growth markets around the world. formalized our sustainable supply framework, as adherance to our core principles and company values at reflected below. all times. In 2014, third party supplier assessments and audits from the TfS initiative were effectively integrated into our Three formal processes are now in place to help program to further secure our critical spend coverage and AkzoNobel ensure compliance, manage risk and promote maximize supplier contributions toward our sustainability Supplier sustainability framework supplier development. Our Supplier Support Visit and objectives. Key Supplier Management programs focus on two distinctly different supplier segments: critical suppliers in We have defined critical spend as all PR spend (raw emerging markets and globally strategic (key) suppliers. materials and packaging) from high growth countries. Vision: Sustainable supply Our third and newest program, Together for Sustainability Spend is considered to be covered by this metric if at least (TfS), applies to all supplier segments. TfS provides one of the following conditions is met: Mission: Measurable development & delivery standardized, third party assessments and audits into our • The supplier is part of our Key Supplier routine supplier management process. Management process Process 1: Process 2: Process 3: • The supplier is part of our Supplier Support Visits Supplier Together for Key Supplier The above elements equip AkzoNobel to measure program and has been followed up in compliance with Support Visits Sustainability Management supplier development and delivery against the company’s program guidelines Values: Vendor Policy/Code of Conduct sustainability goals. • The supplier’s sustainability performance has been assessed via AkzoNobel’s third party supplier assessment and audit program AkzoNobel Report 2014 | Sustainability statements 219 • The supplier has a signed Vendor Policy, delivers less suppliers continue their sustainability journey by entering Global implementation of TfS provides the following than €5 million from high growth countries and is not AkzoNobel’s third party assessment and audit program. benefits: classified as a critical supplier (and therefore part of the Awareness of, and compliance with, corporate social • Confirms compliance with our Vendor Policy standards Supplier Support Visits program) responsibilities is measured with continued support from and Code of Conduct across a selected global supplier local cross-functional AkzoNobel teams. portfolio As a result of these focused efforts, we raised our Critical • Supplements our existing SSV program by ensuring PR spend coverage from 80 percent in 2013 to 83 percent continued development of critical suppliers in high in 2014. Key Supplier Management growth markets • Strengthens our risk identification and mitigation The Supplier sustainability framework is put in place to As part of our ongoing operational effectiveness program, processes support continuous improvement of suppliers, to prioritize our Key Supplier Management process helps focus our • Further integrates auditable corrective action planning improvement activities across our supply base and to internal resources on suppliers we have defined as critical into the supplier development process accelerate delivery of our corporate sustainability goals. to AkzoNobel, both now and in the future. These suppliers • Provides third party verification of AkzoNobel activities Each of the elements in the sustainable supply framework are essential to supporting us in realizing our strategic against industry best practices is further explained below. objectives. With many of these key suppliers we also have a formal key supplier agreement in place, underpinning As part of an annual third party assessment of AkzoNobel, the aims of the Key Supplier Management process. the quality of our corporate supplier management activities Vendor Policy Sustainability objectives are now included in all new key is verified against industry best practice. AkzoNobel was supplier agreements. granted a Gold recognition level in 2014 by EcoVadis, The Vendor Policy covers 98 percent of the product related putting us among the best performing companies (PR) spend and 80 percent of the non-product related (NPR) assessed by EcoVadis globally in our industry category. spend, including all critical suppliers and key suppliers. Our Together for Sustainability (TfS) Our Supplier sustainability framework provides an overall aim is to have all our suppliers comply with the AkzoNobel approach to quantifying supplier progression and delivery Vendor Policy, which includes our Code of Conduct, Full implementation of this program in 2014 has impacted against key performance elements in both high growth and confirming their compliance with environmental, social and all supplier segments, including product related and mature markets. governance factors. non-product related suppliers. TfS is an industry initiative made up of 12 leading European chemical companies In 2014, we began piloting an internal supplier rating and continues to expand. It aims to improve sustainability system designed to measure the current level of Supplier Support Visits practices within the global supply chains of the chemical sustainability awareness and maturity of our strategic and industry, building on established global principles such as critical suppliers. Clear and quantifiable key performance The Supplier Support Visits (SSV) program is designed to the United Nations Global Compact and the Responsible indicators are contained in this process to help drive develop long-term local suppliers in high growth markets Care® Global Charter. With TfS, we aim to implement continuous improvement of all suppliers and delivery of by raising their capability and performance. Introduced in effective, leading edge practices across the industry. We sustainability benefits to AkzoNobel in the area of carbon 2007, the SSV program has been highly successful and are implementing standardized global CSR assessments footprint reduction. Progress will be reported in our is an important supplier management tool. The supportive and on-site audits to monitor and improve sustainability Report 2015. visits focus on critical suppliers and are carried out by practices in our supply chains. teams from Procurement and HSE. Formal follow-up visits by these teams are conducted to verify implementation of agreed plans and overall progress. In order to ensure continued development of sustainable supply chains in high growth markets, selected approved SSV 220 Sustainability statements | AkzoNobel Report 2014 Safety Key performance indicators – safety sites that are furthest behind in terms of safety performance. Ambition Ambition Ambition 2011 2012 2013 2014 2014 2015 2020 During 2015, AkzoNobel will extend behavior-based People safety to all work locations worldwide. Those who Total reportable injury rate employees/ 3.1 2.4 2.3 1.8 2.0 <2.0 <1.0 drive on company business will be included in a supervised contractors (per million hours) company-wide program of training based on safe driving Manufacturing sites with behavior-based 76 76 96 98 100 100 – behavior, including awareness training, e-learning and safety program (% of sites) practical training. Our process safety management Life-Saving Rules implemented (% of sites) – – 100 100 100 – – framework has been introduced at high hazard sites and Process will be extended to medium hazard sites in 2015. Regulatory actions (Level 4) 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Significant loss of containment (Level D) 2 0 1 0 0 0 0 A product stewardship maturity framework has been established as part of our renewed product stewardship Product strategy and training in product stewardship principles will Priority substances with management plan (%) 23 42 62 82 80 100 – be extended to all relevant business teams. Responsibility REACH compliance third phase (%) – – – 15 15 25 100 for implementing these programs lies with the businesses, Management with leading units providing experience and best practice Safety incidents (Level 3) 8 3 0 1 0 0 0 that can be shared with others in order to accelerate Management and reassurance audits 66 61 56 63 – – – progress. As a key element in the next phase of improvement, we will provide advanced safety leadership training for Our Safety Common Platform established companysanction allowed under local legislation in 15 cases. Our manufacturing site management, including direct dialog wide improvement programs in people, process and company-wide approach to managing the risk from the with our most senior leaders on safety performance product safety, supported by continuous improvement use of priority substances has resulted in the phase-out or and improvement plans. The program will provide site and capability building. The Safety Common Platform sets restriction of priority substances at a global level. managers with the opportunity to benchmark internally, out milestones to achieve a world class level of safety receive coaching from experienced peers and share best excellence by 2020. We aim to differentiate ourselves Key line managers have now received refresher training practices worldwide. by our thoroughness in embedding best practice in the company’s expectations and the required safety processes in all our operations, using common competencies for safety leadership. A single system for approaches and systems. Behavior-based safety has now HSE performance reporting has been in place for several been implemented at all our manufacturing sites and at years and a new single system for reporting incidents and more than 50 percent of non-production work locations analyzing incident trends is now fully operational. and groups – including stores, warehouses, laboratories and technical service teams – using a risk-based During 2014, management focus and employee approach. The effectiveness of the local behavior-based engagement at every level delivered a further reduction of safety programs is reviewed annually. Our common set more than 25 percent in the number of injuries. Particular of Life-Saving Rules (LSR) has been introduced for all contributions to meeting our milestones came from the employees. Breaches of these rules that result in injuries risk-based approaches of our behavior-based safety or safety incidents resulted in the maximum disciplinary program, and the additional focus and support provided to AkzoNobel Report 2014 | Sustainability statements 221 8 Note 8: People safety Overall performance indicators for people safety show that Independent contractors total reportable (2014 ambition: 50 percent). In 2015, all remaining the company continues to make improvements towards injuries injury rate non-manufacturing personnel will be included the targets set for 2015. Implementation of the people • The downward trend extended to the TRR of safety programs coincides with a continued decrease 4.2 independent contractors. Following the decrease of last 3.5 3.5 in the number of injuries to employees, supervised and 2.9 year, the rate dropped again to 2.9 in 2014 independent contractors. Our behavior-based safety program, which actively 2011 2012 2013 2014 Employee health engages all personnel in identifying and addressing The total reportable injury rate (TRR) is the number of injuries, including fatalities, resulting in a lost time case, restricted work or requiring medical treatment by at-risk behavior, has been tailored to the needs of our a competent medical practitioner per million hours worked. In line with OSHA As well as ensuring a safe working environment and non-manufacturing personnel and rolled out. guidelines, supervised contractors (SC) are reported with employees, since day-tohealthy working conditions, we also foster employee day management is by AkzoNobel. Independent contractors are managed by their own companies. health and well-being, as well as managing illness-related Our main performance indicators for people safety are the absenteeism. total reportable injury rate (TRR) and the lost time injury (LTI) rate. • The TRR for employees and supervised contractors Employee health decreased to 1.8 (2013: 2.3) 2012 2013 2014 • The overall downward trend in reportable injuries Total illness absence rate 2.0 2.1 2.1 Employee and supervised contractors total coincides with both the implementation of our LifeOccupational illness rate 0.2 0.1 0.2 reportable injuries injury rate Saving Rules at all facilities, and the global roll-out of the Wellness Checkpoint use >11,300 >13,700 >15,000 Target people, process and product safety programs that are 3.1 part of the Safety Common Platform. Implementation 2.4 was complemented by a strong focus on compliance • The total illness absence rate (TIAR) remained stable at 2.3 1.8 <2.0 and operational discipline, performance monitoring and 2.1 percent (2013: 2.1 percent). This is slightly higher enforcement if necessary. We will continue focusing on than two years ago, due to the divestment of units with <1.0 continuous improvement through these programs in low TIAR. We continue to monitor this indicator for the 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2020 order to achieve the 2020 target of a TRR of less than whole company, aiming to stay at a level of around 1.0 for employees and supervised contractors 1.9 percent, but will not set new long-term ambitions Total reportable injury rate per Business Area • In 2014, the lost time injury (LTI) rate for employees and • The occupational illness rate for employees and supervised contractors decreased more than 30 percent supervised contractors stands at 0.2 illnesses per injury rate 2013 2014 to 0.9 (2013: 1.3) million hours worked (2013: 0.1) Decorative Paints 1.9 1.6 • There were no employee or contractor fatalities • Our voluntary health risk appraisal tool, the Wellness Performance Coatings 2.8 1.8 during the year Checkpoint, is highly appreciated and is being used by Specialty Chemicals 2.2 2.4 • Behavior-based safety actively engages all personnel in an increasing number of employees and their families. identifying and addressing at-risk behavior. By the end of 2014, more than 15,000 people had This year, the program has been subject to formal joined the program since its launch in 2008 review at manufacturing sites (100 percent reviewed). The process has been made specific for various types of non-manufacturing personnel and was rolled out to around half of these groups. In total, 60 percent of non-manufacturing personnel have been included 222 Sustainability statements | AkzoNobel Report 2014 9 Note 9: Process safety Distribution and Safety Day and we developed a Safe Driving training Process safety management motor vehicle incidents program to be implemented in the period 2014-2015 • As the first step of the Safe Driving program, a Safe In 2014, the Process safety management (PSM) Distribution and motor vehicle incidents continue to be Driving Awareness e-learning training was launched in framework was introduced as the set of minimum process a risk to the safety of employees and contractors. Most the second half of 2014. The training is available to all safety requirements at all our sites. These requirements incidents occur on the road and in countries where employees and is mandatory for all identified company are compatible with major PSM legislation in the European enforcement of traffic regulations is still developing. The drivers (employees who drive while at work). By the end Union and the US. total number of distribution incidents and the number of of the year, 90 percent (close to 10,000) of our company motor vehicle incidents increased slightly. drivers had completed this training. In addition almost Implementation of the framework is phased. Sites have Regarding the increase in distribution incidents, we 6,000 colleagues voluntarily completed the training been prioritized based on their residual risk, taking into saw slightly more shipping and rail distribution incidents account their inherent production hazards and current involving the transportation of our products by third levels of process safety performance. In 2014, PSM party contractors. Through our Product stewardship implementation was initiated at the 46 sites assessed as program (Note 10), we insist that contractors assess all most safety-critical. Other sites will follow in 2015 and risks involved in the distribution process and take the 2016. right safety measures, which involves us auditing their performance. Each site will need to complete four milestones: training, a gap analysis, implementation and completion, and Distribution incidents production of predefined deliverables. All sites are 2011 2012 2013 2014 expected to complete the four milestones by the end of Road 67 44 44 43 2018. Implementation progress is monitored and reported Sea 3 2 2 3 on a monthly basis to the Executive Committee and to line Rail 10 0 2 6 management. Air 0 0 0 0 Total 80 46 48 52 Loss of containment Motor vehicle incidents Akzo Nobel uses “loss of primary containment’’ as a main indicator of process safety performance at our 2011 2012 2013 2014 manufacturing sites. Incidents with injury 29 28 19 20 Fatalities – employees 0 1 0 0 • The number of losses of containment classed as Level D went down from 1 in 2013 to zero in 2014 • The number of distribution incidents increased from 48 • We recorded nine minor spills or leakages. Four of in 2013 to 52 in 2014. Most of these incidents (43 out of the spills were contained on site. In five cases, a 52), occurred on the road small amount of the spilled material went off site. All • The number of motor vehicle incidents reported of the spills were reported to the authorities and fully increased from 19 in 2013, to 20 in 2014 investigated, while immediate action was taken to • To further reduce the number of motor vehicle incidents, prevent reoccurrence we raised awareness for safe driving during our annual AkzoNobel Report 2014 | Sustainability statements 223 10 Note 10: Product stewardship Loss of containment incidents Our Product safety process is a key building block of the We are on target to review and manage all our priority AkzoNobel safety strategy and protects people and the substances by the end of 2015. In 2014, the total environment from unsafe exposure to hazardous materials. number reviewed and managed in the program was 145 Levels It also promotes the use of sustainable products, going (82 percent of 176), meeting our objective of 80 percent D 0 beyond the traditional approach of reactive regulatory for 2014. Of the priority substances reviewed in the (2013: 1) compliance, enabling us to take a leading position in program so far, 54 have been phased out and uses of Significant product stewardship by providing our customers with safer 91 restricted. C products that meet or exceed their expectations. During 9 2014, our focus has been on Safety Common Platform Priority substances (2013: 22)* Not contained at site programs. % reviewed and managed Target B 292 (2013: 244) Priority substance management 100 82 Not readily controlled but contained at site Our company-wide priority substance process takes a 62 A 42 systematic approach to the identification, review and 1,112 (2013: 1,148)* management of hazardous substances that we use in our 23 Readily controlled and contained at site products and chemical processes. Taking this proactive 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 approach promotes the use of safer and sustainable A priority substance is reviewed and managed when it has been reviewed under the products and means we often take action to manage AkzoNobel priority substance process and is listed as prohibited or restricted in the Loss of containment is defined as an unplanned release of material, product, raw AkzoNobel company-wide Priority substance standard (STD 6). material or energy to the environment (including those resulting from human error). harmful substances in advance of legislation, futureLosses of containment are divided into four categories, dependent on severity, from proofing our products against changes in regulations. small on-site spill (Level A) to a significant escape (Level D). * Restated as a result of reclassification of incidents. Examples of priority substances that were reviewed The process requires that all hazardous substances used and restricted in 2014 are boric acid and isopropylated • There was a general improvement in the safety by the company are identified and scored on the basis triphenyl phosphate (ITP). These substances must not performance of our high hazard sites. The number of of their long-term human and environmental hazards, exceed maximum levels in AkzoNobel products and strict high hazard sites that have reached safety maturity and where public concern exists over their use. Those risk management measures must be followed when they “reference level” (considered satisfactory) has increased with higher scores are designated as priority substances are used. significantly. In total, 83 percent of high hazard sites and are reviewed by experts in the company. Where a achieved this level in all elements of the AkzoNobel safer alternative exists and there is a favorable business The priority substance methodology is now embedded safety management system, while 86 percent of case, the priority substance is substituted with a less into our company raw material databases and our all sites reached the reference level in the process hazardous and more sustainable material. If substitution procurement and innovation processes, so less harmful safety elements is not currently possible, a full risk assessment is raw materials can be sourced in AkzoNobel. In 2015, we performed by our experts following state-of-the-art will complete the current phase of the priority substance procedures from the EU REACH regulations. After program and develop the second phase of the process, review, we manage their use by limiting uses of priority ready for launch in 2016. substances to those uses that have been shown to be safe. If safe use cannot be shown, they are prohibited During 2014, we presented our priority substances from further use or production within AkzoNobel. program to our stakeholders, including customers, non-governmental organizations and investor associations and received positive feedback to our 224 Sustainability statements | AkzoNobel Report 2014 approach. Adopting this proactive approach to We are also preparing carefully to ensure that we comply business portion of its website and it will be used as a substance management enables us to take a leading with new substance management regulations in case study to illustrate how to develop and introduce safer position in sustainable product stewardship and supports South Korea (K-REACH) that will come into force in 2015. chemical replacements. the development and introduction of eco-premium solutions to the market. Classification and labeling of AkzoNobel products In China, through our participation in the advocacy We are on schedule with the implementation of a global committee of the Association of International Chemical harmonized system for labeling of chemical substances Manufacturers (AICM), we participated in discussions Product distribution and products. An e-learning awareness module is available leading to a change in status of five organic solvents under for employees through the AkzoNobel Academy to ensure environmental management laws. In order to ensure our products are transported and changes in labels and safety datasheets are understood. distributed safely by our contractors, we insist that all risks Continuous improvement involved in the distribution process are assessed and that Advocacy Our product stewardship and product safety processes they take the right safety measures. We also audit their We continue to be active in industry bodies, in public are underpinned with a requirement for continuous performance. forums and with stakeholders discussing product safety improvement. In 2014, we piloted our product stewardship issues at the local, regional and global level. Participation self-assessment questionnaire (SAQ) as a tool for ensuring in this way gives us an opportunity to engage regulators continuous improvement. Using these tools, businesses Regulatory affairs and other stakeholders before new rules are finalized. will assess their level of maturity and plan their next steps Our aim is to support legislation, standards and initiatives to achieving a leading level in product stewardship. We carefully monitor changes and prepare ourselves that promote and support the use of safer and more for new regulations that will affect our products and sustainable products in our industry. processes. In 2014, we successfully launched a new company-wide regulatory information system which For example, we continue to maintain links with, and ensures up-to-the-minute information about product safety fully support, the objectives of the Global Alliance to legislation is available to all regulatory affairs professionals Eliminate Lead in Paint (GAELP), a program coordinated within AkzoNobel. by the United Nations Environmental Program (UNEP) to encourage industry and governments to take action During 2014, our primary activities included: to remove lead compounds from paint. In September, we made a statement to the biennial meeting of GAELP Substance management regulations that as safer lead-free substitutes are widely available, Our REACH team is now busy preparing information there is no need or justification for lead compounds to be to submit for registration of our substances that are in intentionally added to any paint. scope of the third phase of the EU REACH regulation. All applications for registration must be submitted by May 31, After a successful presentation to the Green Chemistry 2018, and we have set targets to monitor our progress. and Commerce Council (GC3) in the US, we were invited by a participating NGO, the Environmental Defence EU REACH third phase Fund (EDF), to participate in a project on safer chemical replacements. Working with our Chelates in % 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 business and EDF, we completed a case study on our Progress towards 15 25 50 75 100 biodegradable and bio-based chelate, Dissolvine GL. EU REACH third phase EDF has now selected the study for publication on the AkzoNobel Report 2014 | Sustainability statements 225 11 Note 11: HSE management processes Management systems HSE audit Early in the year, lead auditors and new trainees from The periodic HSE audit for sites uses the same maturity North America, Latin America, Europe and Asia were Operational excellence at our sites is supported by riskquestionnaire as the one sites use for their continuous trained in the different regions. based management systems that follow the Responsible improvement activity (SAQ). The audits are conducted by Care® and Coatings Care® principles. Our HSE rules and HSE experts from the businesses and managed by the procedures are set up and updated in accordance with global Internal Audit function. All sites carry out an annual Safety incidents international standards such as ISO-14001, RC-14001, self-assessment and the results are used to prepare OHSAS-18001 and PAS 55 (public standard for process site improvement plans, while it also provides input for Safety incidents are those that involve severe consequences safety). Many sites and businesses also have external the corporate HSE audits. Together, the corporate HSE requiring an independent investigation. We investigate all certification for their management systems, which are regulations and auditing create the assurance framework. safety incidents to increase the safety of operations. The subject to internal and external audit. lessons learned are shared company-wide. Management audits number of audits External certification We classify safety incidents based on severity of outcome (Level 1 Level 3). The total number of Level 1, 2 and 3 in % of manufacturing sites 2011 2012 2013 2014 66 61 56 63 safety incidents slightly increased to 15 (2013: 14). Of ISO-14001/RC-14001 73 75 78 79 these 15, there was one Level 2 and one Level 3 incident, OHSAS-18001/RC-18001 37 42 51 53 compared with 2013, when all incidents recorded were at the lower Level 1 (severe local impact). 2011 2012 2013 2014 Maturity framework Level 3 safety incident: For most sites, the audit frequency is every five years. • A member of the public, a bus driver, died following a We have a common maturity framework for measuring For sites with a high hazard rating, this frequency is every traffic accident involving a bus contracted to AkzoNobel HSE management progress at our sites which includes a three years. A formal review of the intrinsic hazard rating at Itupeva in Brazil self-assessment and audit. The HSE maturity framework is for all sites takes place every year leading to updates if being used to drive continuous improvement. The average necessary. Safety incidents (Level 3) improvement of sites was 5 percent in 2013 and 6 percent in 2014, while there was a further reduction of 22 percent A new introduction during 2014 was the so-called multi8 in the total reportable injury rate (TRR). site HSE audits. These are carried out at locations where more than one business is represented. Over the course Self-assessment questionnaire (SAQ) of the year, we carried out 55 corporate HSE audits (2013: 3 The SAQ, which covers all elements of the HSE 46), three site closure audits (2013: 4) and five reassurance 1 0 management system, has been repositioned as the audits (2013: 6), which are required for sites with high risk company-wide HSE improvement planning tool. To findings. 2011 2012 2013 2014 maintain relevance to major programs rolled out during Safety incidents (Level 3): Incidents involving loss of life, more than five severe injuries, environmental, assets or business damage totaling more than €25 million, or recent years (e.g. the PSM framework), the questionnaire The newly established global Process Safety Management extensive reputational damage. was thoroughly revised during 2014. The new version will program will support all sites in improving management be effective from January 2015. of asset integrity and process safety, which have been identified as key areas for improvement in recent years. The first results are visible for the high hazard sites. 226 Sustainability statements | AkzoNobel Report 2014 Four of the 15 safety incidents involved entrapment in HSE capability building We also continue to build a community of highly capable moving machinery, three involved driving and three slips Product Safety and Regulatory Affairs (PSRA) professionals and falls. These reinforce our continued focus on safe driver HSE professionals and line managers with critical HSE within the company. In 2014, we finalized a curriculum and training, behavior-based safety and Life-Saving Rules. functions develop their competencies based on our competency framework which maps out the skills needed Implementation progress, and compliance, is monitored and integrated supply chain competencies framework, to progress within the PSRA function in AkzoNobel. shared with the Executive Committee and line management proficiency levels and job profiles. Core programs are Our aligned PSRA training programs provide training in the on a monthly basis. delivered and further developed by using a blended learning competencies required. We held PSRA Level 1 training approach which includes, for example, assignments, (fundamentals) in South America and in Asia. In total, e-learning, classroom training, virtual classrooms and 79 percent of eligible PSRA professionals have now Regulatory actions webinars. completed this training, while in 2015 we will make it available for other functions. We also held specialized We have defined four categories of regulatory actions, from In 2014, the HSE offering expanded with learning activities (PSRA Level 2) training in human risk assessment and self-reported issues (Level 1) to a formal notice of a criminal for senior leaders, frontline leaders in manufacturing and national substance management regulations, including prosecution or penalty greater than €100,000 (Level 4). non-manufacturing leaders. These activities have been Korea, Indonesia and China. Compared with 2013, the regulatory action Level 4 has piloted and will become a part of the HSE curriculum in been added, since it is more in line with materiality levels for 2015. Next year, emphasis will also be directed towards the In 2015, we will continue to roll out Level 2 and Level 3 AkzoNobel. impact of change in behavior and learning on-the-job. (advanced) training for our PSRA community. As in previous years, we did not receive any formal We will provide advanced safety leadership training for HSE capability development notifications of a criminal prosecution or penalty greater manufacturing site management, including direct dialog than €100,000, which suggests that our people, product with our most senior leaders on safety performance and Ambition Ambition in % of target group 2012 2013 2014 2014 2015 and process safety programs, stewardship and behaviorimprovement plans. The program will provide site managers HSE critical leaders 23 62 90 60 100 based safety programs continue to have an effect on with the opportunity to benchmark internally, receive workshop reducing the number of serious injuries and significant coaching from experienced peers and share best practices Level 1 PSRA program 0 40 79 60 90 losses of containment. worldwide. Regulatory actions Awareness of product stewardship among our business 2011 2012 2013 2014 management teams has been raised. In 2014, we piloted Regulatory actions (Level 4) 0 0 0 0 awareness training with two of our business teams, which focused on identifying product stewardship opportunities Regulatory action (Level 4): A formal notice of a criminal prosecution or (conditional) that add value to AkzoNobel. We will continue to roll this penalty greater than €100,000. These are reported to indicate to management the potential for reputational damage and the effect on our license to operate. training out more widely in 2015. AkzoNobel Report 2014 | Sustainability statements 227 Employees and community 12 Note 12: Our people Key performance indicators – employees Our people are the key to our success as an organization. We need to ensure that we have a performance-driven 2011 2012 2013 2014 Target 2015 culture and the right people with the right capabilities to People data deliver on our strategic objectives. Employees at year-end (FTE) 57,240 55,272 49,561 47,207 – Employee engagement Employee engagement (ViewPoint score 3.74 3.80 3.88 3.97 >4.00 The right culture (1-5 scale)) New core principles and values and behaviors Diversity and inclusion We want to encourage a high performance culture % of females in total workforce 24 24 24 24 – of engagement, feedback and trust. Our new core % of employees from high growth markets 40 40 47 48 – principles and values help to shape the behaviors that % of female executives 13 15 16 17 20 create this culture. During 2014, we continued to roll% of executives from high growth markets 13 13 14 16 20 out our new values and behaviors across the company % of female executive potentials 26 27 28 24* 30 through an awareness raising campaign called Count % of executive potentials from high growth markets 31 31 34 30* 30 me in! The campaign was subsequently nominated for a European Excellence Award, in the category Internal Talent management Communications. % cross-BU moves of leadership talents 6 5 7 13** 10 % internal promotion into executive level 80 70 75 68 80 Pulse surveys have shown that after just one year, % retention of total workforce – 88 89 87 – 96 percent of our people are aware of the new values and % retention of leadership talent 96 96 92 93** 95 behaviors, while 67 percent indicated that they influence % retention of leadership talent – under94 97 92 89** 95 their way of working. We held thousands of Town Hall represented groups (women and high growth market employees) meetings and Count me in! workshops all over the globe. These were designed to help our people bring the values Learning and development to life by showing how they are connected to their team ViewPoint score on Learning and growth (Q12) 3.80 3.85 3.93 3.99 >4.00 objectives. In total, 82 percent of our people said that they (1-5 scale) have a clear understanding of how the values relate to the * The definition of potentials changed in 2014 to better reflect our talent pool. company strategy. ** In line with the new definition of potentials, the definition of leadership talent also changed in 2014 to better reflect our talent pool. Our performance-driven culture is supported by our Core principles and values Performance and Development Dialog process (P&DD), which is mandatory for all employees. The values are now We build successful partnerships Customer focused with our customers fully integrated into this process, which means that they are Core a crucial part of the objective setting phase and mid-year principles: review, as well as the year-end performance assessment. In Deliver on commitments We do what we say we will do Safety addition to the performance score, a separate values score Integrity We strive to be the best has been introduced which influences the overall P&DD Passion for excellence in everything we do, every day Sustainability rating. This rating influences the annual salary review, so Winning together We develop, share and use our employees are rewarded not only for what they achieve, personal strengths to win as a team but also for how they achieve it. 228 Sustainability statements | AkzoNobel Report 2014 ViewPoint engagement survey that where we focus on the quality of action planning, Female executives in % One of our other key measures of progress in the area it leads to an increase in engagement, so this was a Target 20 of culture is employee engagement, which we measure significant point of attention in 2014. 16 17 through our annual ViewPoint engagement survey. As well 15 12 13 as measuring engagement generally, the survey now also In addition, we have made tools and training available 10 includes questions about our core principles and values, to help our managers improve in the areas of giving and giving us an understanding of the extent to which our receiving feedback. This is an important factor in creating people are aware of and live them. We see 2014 as the an engaged, values-driven culture. We will also create 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 zero measurement for these questions and will be able to platforms to empower our employees to share ideas and track our progress in the future. best practice in living our values. High growth market executives in % Target We have also changed the timing of our annual employee Diversity and inclusion 20 engagement survey to better fit with the cycle of the Diversity of thought is an important factor in creating the 16 14 business, so the results can be used to inform business right culture. Our company’s workforce should reflect 12 13 13 11 planning, as well as being included in people’s objectives. the societies where we do business. We need to truly represent the many and varied cultures of the markets we Compared with last year’s results, we have seen an serve, and over the last year we have placed a stronger 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 increase in engagement. In the context of our ongoing focus on inclusion as an important element of building change and restructuring this is a positive signal. winning teams. Engagement has increased every year since we started the survey in 2010. We’re committed to continuously improving in this area. We want our management layers to reflect the diversity The right people ViewPoint score employee engagement of our overall workforce, which is currently 24 percent (1 – 5 scale) female and 48 percent from high growth markets. In We are working hard to put in place the right talent 2014, we increased the number of executives from high management and resourcing processes across the >4.00 growth markets to 16 percent (2013: 14 percent). We also company. This helps us to recruit, retain and develop the 3.80 3.88 3.97 3.74 3.56 re-introduced a Women in Leadership training program people we need to create winning teams. for our female high potential employees to address some of the barriers that women face in moving to senior We’re starting to manage talent in a more active way to leadership roles. We saw the number of female executives ensure that we have a sustainable pipeline of internal increase to 17 percent in 2014 (2013: 16 percent). candidates for our future needs. We have extended 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 our focus from top management to also include other management levels. Our overall engagement score increase of 0.09 to 3.97 (2013: 3.88) means we’re on track to achieve our 2015 Our approach to assessing growth potential now target of over 4.00. reflects the importance of our values and behaviors, our engagement and diversity and inclusion measures. We Manufacturing is generally acknowledged to be one of the have also updated our recruitment policy, which now more difficult areas to build employee engagement. Our focuses on hiring people with potential – not just for focused interventions in manufacturing led to a significant that role, but for the future as well. And by making our increase of engagement in this area. We have also learned processes simple and easy to understand, as well as AkzoNobel Report 2014 | Sustainability statements 229 communicating them clearly to our people managers excellence and defined a common sales and marketing and employees, we are being transparent about how we curriculum. manage our talent. Throughout the year, we ran more than 50 centrally Our internal promotion into executive level decreased to developed functional excellence and management Business 68 percent (2013: 75 percent). This was due to our more development programs, impacting more than 4,000 partners rigorous approach to talent management, which resulted employees. We also increased the number of online in the external recruitment of a number of new executives. programs available to all employees (open enrolment) to This was a conscious choice to bring in new knowledge more than 200, available in five languages. and skills from outside our organization to further encourage new ideas, innovation and diversity of thought. During the next few years, we will use the AkzoNobel The new talent management approach also resulted in a Academy to further build people manager capability change to the definition of leadership talent. This impacted and help them take more responsibility with regard to Centers of Shared Service our leadership talent retention figures which increased supporting their people. To date, we have trained 13,000 Expertise Centers slightly for the overall group to 93 percent (2013: 92 managers in our Situational Leadership Program globally. percent); and declined to 89 percent (2013: 92 percent) for the under-represented group. ViewPoint score on Learning and growth The new model means that we’ll have one way of doing (Q12) (1 – 5 scale) things, for example in terms of talent management, across The right capabilities the company. This is more efficient and will deliver a better 3.80 3.85 3.93 3.99 >4.00 employee experience, as well as making life easier for our We know that continuous learning needs to be one of people managers. It is based on three key elements: our critical focus areas if we’re to remain competitive and create a working environment that makes people • Business partners focused on high value added feel valued while providing the right conditions for them activities that are close to the business. They will offer to perform at their best. We want our people to feel 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 analytical and strategic support and make sure our empowered to own their development, so we give them standard processes and policies are applied in their area the support and resources they need to grow. Our focus on capability development is reflected in our • Centers of Expertise made up of groups of experts ViewPoint survey score, which has increased year on year. who offer advice and support specific tasks for each Our online Academy learning platform helps us to drive of our Business Areas, such as Talent management, functional and leadership capability and we are in the Compensation and benefits and Recruitment process of developing it to become the “go to” place for Operational excellence • Shared Service Centers to focus on process efficiency learning and best practice in AkzoNobel. During 2014, and run all transactional support services, such as we redefined the governance, systems and structure of In 2014, we introduced a new operating model for five of payroll and HR administration the Academy to make sure its philosophy and principles our support functions, including Human Resources. The are part of our corporate growth strategy. We have further model aims to reduce complexity and costs by introducing Our target is an agile, effective, efficient and standardized standardized learning across the organization by rolling standardized processes and systems and harmonizing HR organization which delivers high quality people out a standard Learning Management System in key policies and ways of working across the organization. This strategies, service and support to the company at an countries. This will help us to measure and benchmark will remove duplication and make us more competitive in affordable cost. The implementation of the new operating learning across businesses and geographies. We have the future. model allowed us to reduce HR headcount by 16 percent. also launched a best practice platform for commercial 230 Sustainability statements | AkzoNobel Report 2014 13 Note 13: Restructuring 14 Note 14: Community In 2014, we continued to restructure our business to As a global company, we fully understand our role and “Let’s Colour” program execute our company strategy so we can continue to responsibilities when it comes to society and contributing meet the needs of our customers in years to come. We are to the communities in which we operate. It forms an We believe in the transformative power of color and the aware of the impact this has on the employees involved integral part of our sustainability agenda. Whenever positive effect it can have on people’s lives. Color can and, as a responsible employer, we are committed to possible, we try to make a positive difference to the world inject soul and inspiration into a city. It can breathe life supporting our employees during such reorganizations. around us. We engage with people and partner with into communities and revitalize areas that were once We do this in compliance with legal requirements various organizations to help bring the AkzoNobel brand considered dull and lifeless. We express this belief through and, where applicable, in consultation with employee to life, while also supporting deserving and sustainable our global “Let’s Colour” program, which includes both representative bodies. We strive to ensure clear and projects and causes, using our products when appropriate. charitable donations of paint and community investment. ongoing communications, transparent selection processes Not only does it embrace the physical improvement of and, in many cases, support in the transition from work-toWhen partnering with organizations and entering into deprived neighborhoods, but it also facilitates educational work, which can include training and outplacement. sponsorship agreements, we are guided by the six pillars of development and job training. our Human Cities initiative. The pillars also provide direction During 2014, our workforce decreased due to ongoing for our community involvement. A big success story is our Working together with local communities – including restructuring and divestments, but we also added to global “Let’s Colour” program, which inspires people to customers, employees and other influencers – we have the headcount, mainly through new hires in high growth revitalize their local communities with our paint products. already created better living environments for millions of markets. For details of how our workforce changed, see Run by our Decorative Paints business, the initiative also people. Each initiative is designed to renew community Note 4 of the Consolidated financial statements. encourages the active participation of our employees. spaces and improve people’s well-being. Education is also an important part of the process, both in terms of training Wherever possible, we announce our restructuring plans Another vital part of our partnership approach is the people to become painters and teaching children about between 12 and 26 months in advance (recent examples development of young people, highlighted by our work the value of cooperation and the science of color. By have been Yeronga in Australia, and the site relocation with the Plan organization, which includes the AkzoNobel demonstrating our belief through this program, we are also within Powder Coatings China of operations in Ningbo Education Fund. Meanwhile, our global sponsorship inspiring people to get involved in making their world a and Suzhou to Changzhou). This allows for better planning program is currently focused on key partnerships with the better place. in the transition from work-to-work. In most countries, Cruyff Foundation, the Rijksmuseum and the Van Gogh we use the services of an external company to support Museum in the Netherlands, and the Extreme Sailing During 2014, we donated around 120,000 liters of employees in finding their next position. Exceptions to Series. paint, worth an estimated €0.4 million. Approximately this are in Italy, based on an agreement with the Italian 1,600 AkzoNobel employees were involved, volunteering government, and the Netherlands, where we operate an roughly 10,000 hours of their time to various “Let’s Colour” in-house mobility office to support employees. Our products projects across the globe. We also trained nearly 5,000 people as painters. In 2014, we estimate that When possible, we endeavor to assist society through our we positively impacted the lives of around seven products. Ferrazone, for example, is helping to improve million people. well-being in many communities, particularly in developing countries. Used to fortify food, it is widely regarded as being the most effective way to treat iron deficiency anemia. Another example is our partnership with the Forest Stewardship Counsil (FSC) in relation to our wood care products. See Note 3 in this section for more details. AkzoNobel Report 2014 | Sustainability statements 231 2014 projects by region Community Program The fund is also available to support post-relief aid in case E of major disasters in countries where we operate, as long as Our Community Program encourages sites and individuals there is hands-on involvement by our employees. In 2014, D to take part in projects where our products/resources and our employees in Greiz, Germany, immediately came into A Europe 95 the skills and knowledge of employees can benefit the wider action after massive floods hit the city. They helped make a B North America 16 C community on a sustainable basis. In the past nine years, local elementary school accessible again and reconstructed C Latin America 10 A the program has become firmly embedded in our worldwide the facilities at a local tennis club. D Asia 30 B organization. Projects have included educating E Other regions 1 underprivileged youngsters, creating more awareness about Since the start of the program in 2005, approximately the importance of a clean environment and supporting 13,500 volunteers from around 55 countries have worked deprived, socially disadvantaged groups, helping them on 2,260 projects, representing €15 million of investment. reintegrate into society where possible. Taking into account that many businesses and locations More than 2,500 employees voted for their favorite entries For example, involvement in the set-up and running of soup have been working together on major projects and in our annual Community Program Best Practices contest. kitchens, shelters and daycare centers for the homeless, as the number of participating volunteers has increased First prize went to employees in a cross-business and well as vocational training for unemployed youngsters and substantially, 2014 can again be regarded as a successful cross-site initiative from Decorative Paints, Functional women, are taking place on a continuous basis in various year, benefiting even more deprived groups. A further Chemicals and Powder Coatings in Langfang and Tianjin, parts of the world. increase in team-building activities was noticed, enhancing China, for their “Offering disabled children the chance to employee engagement, as well as underlining our company earn a living” project. Our volunteers helped The Shepherd’s Cumulative Community Program involvement value of Winning together. Field Children’s Village, where 80 to 100 children are Projects (number) housed, from newborns to teenagers. Most suffer from Volunteers (number) The Community Program also provides opportunities for some form of disability. Employees have visited and helped Support (€ million) employees to develop team-building and leadership skills. the center for a number of years, but this year saw a 15.0 In training programs, as well as international conferences, special project undertaken. A major refurbishment of the 14000 15 14.0 community activities are increasingly incorporated to Rehabilitation and Skills Center has provided a bright, clean 13.0 13,500 12000 increase the participants’ awareness of local social and safe environment where the children can learn vital 12.5 11.5 10000 circumstances. These experiences are recognized to skills that will help them earn a living when they are adults. 11,000 10 improve their leadership skills and team spirit, as well as 8000 9,000 employee engagement. 8,000 7.5 6000 During 2014, 152 new projects were initiated. A closer 5 4000 cooperation took place between various businesses 2.5 as well as locations. For example, in Brazil, employees 2000 1,931 2,108 2,260 from Pulp and Performance Chemicals in Jundiaí united 1,678 0 0 with their colleagues in Itupeva, as well as those from 2011 2012 2013 2014 Powder Coatings in São Roque and Decorative Paints in Mauá. They helped construct a major aviary at a wildlife conservation center where up to 200 injured wild birds can be looked after and released freely inside, once they are well enough, or can even be returned to the wild. Many similar joint initiatives took place all over the world. 232 Sustainability statements | AkzoNobel Report 2014 Education Fund Other partnerships What would a city be without the people who live there? Our work with the Cruyff Foundation is designed to AkzoNobel is proud to be associated with a variety of support projects that make sport more accessible to organizations and initiatives in ways that truly make a children around the world. As one of their top partners and positive difference. These partnerships allow us to bring preferred paint supplier, we help the Foundation to create the AkzoNobel brand to life and create value for our and maintain facilities in neighborhoods where children stakeholders. One of our flagship partnerships is with lack the possibility to play sports in a safe environment. the Plan organization in the Netherlands – a member of During 2014, seven new Cruyff Courts were built, including the Plan International network – a collaboration which one in Spain, one in Brazil and two in the Netherlands. marked its 20th anniversary in 2014. The cooperation was established to help children in developing countries fulfil Having played a key role in the refurbishment of their potential by improving the quality of their education. Amsterdam’s famous Rijksmuseum (which fully reopened It has since evolved to also support the employability of in 2013), our ongoing partnership saw AkzoNobel continue young people via vocational training programs designed to supply Sikkens paint during 2014, in addition to the to set them on a proper career path. Over the years, tens 20,000 liters used for the complete renovation. Meanwhile, of thousands of young people have benefited from dozens our sponsorship of the Van Gogh Museum, also in of projects in countries such as Bolivia, Brazil, China, Amsterdam, developed further during 2014 when we Ecuador, India, the Philippines and Vietnam. During the worked together to create a new color palette, inspired 2014 football World Cup in Brazil, we worked together by ten of Van Gogh’s works. Known as the AkzoNobel with Plan Nederland and several other partners to support Van Gogh Collection, the special range of wall paint is a project which involved training deprived young people to available for purchase via our local decorative paint brands become stewards at a stadium in Natal. and is just one of the ways in which we are helping to preserve the cultural heritage of Vincent van Gogh and his contemporaries. One of our more recent partnerships is with the Extreme Sailing Series – a global racing circuit which attracts larger audiences as the action takes place closer to shore. The Extreme 40 catamarans that participate use our Awlgrip yacht coatings, which offer a number of important benefits, including superior performance and aesthetics. In total, eight events were staged around the world during 2014 at host cities including Istanbul, Nice, Sydney and Muscat. AkzoNobel Report 2014 | Sustainability statements 233 Making sport more accessible While buildings may That’s why we’ve teamed up with the Cruyff Foundation, which was established in 1997 by famous Dutch footballer Johan Cruyff. help to define the The partnership enables AkzoNobel to support the Foundation’s projects to make sport more accessible to children around character of a city, it’s the world. the open spaces that As one of the leading partners and preferred coatings supplier of the Cruyff Foundation, we’re helping to create safe sporting refresh its soul. If cities environments in communities across the globe through what are known as Cruyff Courts. These are small-scale facilities set up in are to thrive, they need city neighborhoods that often lack a safe environment for children to play. to offer people places More than 180 have already been established, with AkzoNobel to play, linger and having recently been heavily involved in the launch of courts in Brazil, Spain and Italy. mingle. “To have a good life later on, you need to move yourself around,” explains Cruyff. “That’s why these places for children to go to, to be safe, just run around and play and do whatever they want, is fantastic for their future.” As well as enabling people to live healthier lives, providing open spaces for them to meet, rest and play is vital to creating dynamic, creative and socially cohesive urban environments. They give energy to a city and, in the case of the Cruyff Courts, allow AkzoNobel to give something back to local communities in many of our key markets. 234 Sustainability statements | AkzoNobel Report 2014 Final draft Scan and explore Final draft AkzoNobel Report 2014 | Sustainability statements 235 Environment 15 Note 15: Energy Key performance indicators – environment Energy use Ambition Ambition 2011 2012 2013 2014 2014 2015 Energy is important for all our operations, especially some Operational eco-efficiency footprint measure 11 13 24 24 25 30 of our Specialty Chemicals businesses, because they use (% reduction from 2009) energy as a major raw material for their products. Energy Greenhouse gas emissions per ton of production 256 257 222 224 – 245 efficiency and carbon efficient energy use are therefore (own operations, in kg) important metrics for our operations. Sustainable fresh water management 74 83 85 89 90 100 (% of manufacturing sites) Energy use in 1000 TJ This section outlines environmental impacts in our We measure progress on a quarterly basis using the Energy use own operations and related improvements. The key eco-efficiency footprint measure, a company indicator GJ per ton of production performance indicators are mentioned in the table above. which combines energy, water, waste and air emissions, 250 7.5 Many of these improvements are driven through our as well as cost elements. Weighting factors for each 200 5.7 5.7 5.6 5.7 6 operational eco-efficiency (OEE) program. parameter are used to calculate the overall footprint. This number is used in combination with production volume to 150 4.5 calculate the relative footprint improvement. Between 2009 Operational eco-efficiency and 2014, we achieved a relative footprint improvement of 100 107 106 3 99 98 program 24 percent. The majority of the business units showed a eco-efficiency footprint improvement, but due to product 50 1.5 The focus of the OEE agenda is to increase raw material mix changes the final result is equal to last year. 0 0 efficiency, reduce consumption of energy, decrease We are on track to achieve our target of a relative footprint 2011 2012 2013 2014 emissions and production of waste. Improvements improvement of 30 percent by 2015, and 40 percent by Energy use is the sum of fuels, electricity, steam, hot water and other utilities (expressed as fuel equivalents). include many small site contributions, upgrading existing 2017, with 2009 as the baseline. processes, rationalization of the manufacturing footprint and application of best available technology for new Our OEE performance and trends (the footprint and Energy use per Business Area investments. its related parameters) are transparent for the whole of AkzoNobel via the EcoXchange platform. This platform in 1000 TJ 2013 2014 OEE footprint improvement also provides access to know-how, best practices and Decorative Paints 2.0 1.8 (% reduction from 2009) showcases on eco-efficiency related topics relevant for Performance Coatings 5.0 4.6 Target all locations. Specialty Chemicals 92.0 92.0 40 • Energy use per ton of production increased slightly to 30 5.7 GJ/ton. Absolute energy use was down 1 percent to 24 24 98,000 TJ, both in line with a change in product mix 13 • The total cost of energy in our production was about 11 7 €0.7 billion 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2017 • More details about energy sources can be found in The OEE footprint is calculated from the weighted average of nine footprint Note 5 and on our website parameters and production volume. 236 Sustainability statements | AkzoNobel Report 2014 16 Note 16: Greenhouse gases 17 Note 17: Local air quality We use energy scans to increase awareness and identify Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions from our facilities are Air monitoring around our operations is focused on volatile savings opportunities in all our businesses. During 2014, primarily related to the fuel and power we use, but also organic compounds (VOC) and NOx and SOx emissions. this resulted in many energy improvement projects, include some CO2, methane (CH4) and hydrofluorocarbon We monitor particulates at site level as required. for example: (HFC) process emissions. This section reflects the • As a result of the energy scan at Ningbo in China, a performance of all our own operations covering the gateseries of energy improvement projects delivered annual to-gate scope. More details on our carbon policy and Volatile organic compounds savings of 155 TJ and more than €3 million • A program to optimize spray dryers in Functional cradle-to-grave reporting can be found in Note 5 in this section. (VOC) Chemicals resulted in annual savings of 23 TJ and All our businesses will continue to manage VOC emissions more than €400,000, with an investment of less than Greenhouse gas emissions in million tons from sites, in line with national or supranational (European €400,000 Direct CO2(e) Mt kg CO2(e) per ton of production Commission) legal requirements. • In Rotterdam (Industrial Chemicals), an evaporator is Indirect CO2(e) Mt being rebuilt, resulting in a 5 percent energy reduction 5 300 The VOC reduction focus for our paints and coatings • For 15 production locations, the compressed air system 256 257 businesses is increasingly concentrated on low/zero 4 222 224 240 was checked for leakages, resulting in annual savings of VOC product design, rather than only controlling VOCs in €300,000 at €50,000 cost 3 180 our operations. Reducing VOC emissions from our sites • Decorative Paints carried out energy scans at three 3.2 3.2 remains part of the scope of our OEE program, while 2.8 2.8 of its sites. These scans identified a total of 55 energy 2 120 our Research, Development and Innovation groups are saving opportunities (more than ten are already being 1 1.6 60 working on projects to reduce the solvent content of our 1.5 implemented), as well as highlighting opportunities to 1.1 1.1 products – VOC in product (see Note 4 in this section). make average reductions in energy use of 20 percent 0 0 • In Malmö, Sweden, the heating system was changed 2011 2012 2013 2014 • VOC emissions per ton of production increased by from gas heating to district heating, resulting in an Total greenhouse gas emissions are made up of direct emissions from processes and 1 percent to 0.18 kg/ton. Total VOC emissions remained energy saving of more than 10 percent combustion at our facilities and indirect emissions from purchased energy. stable at 3.1 kilotons • A metering system for energy was installed in Felling in the UK and was used, for example, to optimize the Greenhouse gas emissions per Business Area Volatile organic compounds in kilotons compressors. The identified improvements resulted Volatile organic compounds in an annual saving of more than €150,000, at an in million tons 2013 2014 kg per ton of production investment of less than €50,000 Decorative Paints 0.1 0.1 Performance Coatings 0.3 0.3 7.5 0.25 Specialty Chemicals 3.5 3.5 0.19 6 0.19 0.20 0.17 0.18 • Total greenhouse gas emissions per ton of production 4.5 0.15 increased by 1 percent to 224 kg/ton CO2(e). 3 0.10 3.6 3.6 Absolute GHG emissions remained flat at 3.9 million 3.1 3.1 tons of CO2(e). These are both caused by a change in 1.5 0.05 product mix 0 0 • A detailed breakdown of our greenhouse gas emissions 2011 2012 2013 2014 is available on our website AkzoNobel Report 2014 | Sustainability statements 237 18 Note 18: Raw materials efficiency NOx and SOx Material efficiency incinerating it, which reduced our waste stream. Now we are reducing the formation of this wash NOx and SOx emissions may have a significant impact on Material efficiency is one of our new focus areas, which is water, while any that is generated will be used again in local air quality because of their potential contribution to wider than our current focus on waste. We will maximize production, thus improving our material efficiency acidification. Therefore, these compounds are monitored. our conversion of raw materials into final product by • The Chelates business studied the drivers for the solving the root cause of the losses. This will not only efficiency of reactions, which resulted in a better control • SOx emissions (from process emissions and energy) reduce the waste, but will also, for example, decrease regime and a financial benefit of more than €2 million reduced to 0.22 kg/ton of production. Absolute COD and the carbon dioxide scope 3 upstream. • Specialty Chemicals started a program to identify emissions were down 19 percent to 3.7 kilotons A variety of projects was initiated: opportunities on material efficiency. Facts were collected • Our three sulfur derivatives plants in Germany, the • At Decorative Paints, we used to collect paint from at 28 sites and based on this information, 12 sites were US and Argentina contributed 97 percent of the SOx wash water and sell it as a raw material instead of selected to have a workshop on opportunities emissions, and have reduced their contribution by over 0.9 kton/yr • NOx emissions per ton from our sites remained stable Raw material flow in kilotons at 0.08 kg/ton of production. Total emissions remained at 1.3 kilotons. Improvements were obtained in Boxing, China, due to reduction of pitch to be incinerated, and in Rotterdam, the Netherlands NOx and SOx emissions 15 By-product Customer in kilotons 2011 2012 2013 2014 NOx 2.0 1.9 1.3 1.3 operations NOx kg/ton 0.11 0.10 0.08 0.08 SOx 7.7 7.6 4.6 3.7 Raw 17,300 SOx kg/ton 0.41 0.41 0.26 0.22 material Own Product Emissions may form acid rain that can lead to acidification. The gases are emissions input operations from manufacturing and combustion of fuel that we burn. The total quantity of NOx/ SOx emissions from manufacturing processes discharged directly to air (e.g. after any abatement process) and the quantity of NOx/SOx emissions calculated from the 77 use of fuels. Reusable 149 Waste Ozone depleting substances 72 Non-reusable • Emissions of ozone depleting substances are at a low level – 1.8 tons (2013: 2.9 tons). They are mainly due to Freon22 from maintenance in older air conditioning and cooling units, which are replaced when appropriate 238 Sustainability statements | AkzoNobel Report 2014 Total waste per Business Area Waste in kilotons 2013 2014 Effective waste management helps to increase raw Decorative Paints 39 35 material efficiency in our manufacturing operations, while Performance Coatings 54 55 reducing both our environmental footprint and costs. Specialty Chemicals 64 59 We have moved our focus from managing/reducing total waste to eliminating waste by increasing material efficiency. We are still moving towards eliminating hazardous waste to landfill. The exception is asbestos waste – mainly from Hazardous waste in kilotons demolishing old equipment and buildings – where the Reusable Total kg per ton of production preferred current safe disposal route is properly designed Non-reuseable not landfill Non-reuseable to landfill landfill facilities. • Total waste per ton of production generated and leaving 50 3.8 3.8 4.0 our sites was down 5 percent to 8.6 kg/ton. The total 51 3.5 3.4 waste volume fell to 149 kilotons, a decrease of 40 45 44 3.2 7 percent. The indicative monetary value of the total 30 37 2.4 waste reduction is about €4 million • Hazardous waste continues to fall 20 1.6 23 20 • The focus on waste over past years resulted in a 18 0.8 10 15 reduction in waste at the majority of our sites 3.0 2.7 1.9 1.7 0 0 2011 2012 2013 2014 Total waste in kilotons Hazardous waste is waste that is classified and regulated as such according to the Reusable Total kg per ton of production national, state or local legislation in place. Non-reusable 250 15 200 11.6 11.0 12 9.0 8.6 150 9 100 121 6 118 96 96 50 85 77 3 65 72 0 0 2011 2012 2013 2014 Waste means any substance or object arising from our routine operations which we discard or intend to discard, or we are required to discard. AkzoNobel Report 2014 | Sustainability statements 239 19 Note 19: Water Water flow in million m3 Fresh water availability Sustainable water supply is essential to life – and to the sustainability of our business. We rely on water for raw materials production, product formulation and manufacturing, as well as power generation, cooling, cleaning, transporting and for the effective use of some products. Around 89 percent of our fresh water intake is Potable water 11 28 from surface water and 88 percent of our intake is used for Product Groundwater 18 cooling and is only slightly heated. We continue to reduce 4 the chemical oxygen demand (COD) of our effluent to Surface water 3 Other Own surface water. operations We monitor our progress using a fresh water risk 231 231 assessment tool, which is completed at least bi-annually by each manufacturing site. The tool assigns risk levels to water sources, supply reliability, efficiency, quality of discharges, compliance and social competitive factors. Sustainable fresh water management is defined as a low risk score in all categories. In 2013, the assessment was carried out, and the major risk identified was sourcing Surface water water in water scarce areas. In total, 89 percent of our sites (2013: 85 percent) have sustainable fresh water management in place, as measured by the AkzoNobel fresh water management risk assessment tool. 240 Sustainability statements | AkzoNobel Report 2014 20 Note 20: Soil and groundwater remediation Sustainable fresh water management Water emissions Soil and groundwater in % of manufacturing sites Target In total, 89 percent of the COD is generated in remediation 100 ten production locations, with the remainder being There are costs associated with the assessment 85 89 83 generated by numerous sites. These ten locations are the and remediation of historical soil and groundwater 74 primary focus for improvement actions. contamination. We periodically review historic contamination at our sites, taking remedial action Chemical oxygen demand (COD) in kilotons when required, and have procedures to prevent new 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Chemical oxygen demand contamination. Sustainable fresh water management is defined as a low risk score in all categories 6 kg per ton of production 0.20 in the AkzoNobel sustainable fresh water assessment tool: water sources, supply reliability, efficiency, quality of discharges, compliance and social competitive factors. In line with IFRS accounting rules, we make provisions for 4.8 0.16 environmental remediation costs when it is probable that 3.6 0.12 liability will materialize and the cost can be reasonably 0.10 • Fresh water use per ton of production increased to 0.09 0.08 0.08 estimated. We have set aside €326 million which we 2.4 0.08 15.2 m³/ton (2013: 14.9 m³/ton) believe is sufficient for the sites where we have ownership • Total fresh water use was 263 million m³, a decrease 1.2 1.8 0.04 or responsibility (See Note 16 of the Consolidated financial 1.6 1.4 of 1 percent (2013: 265 million m³) due to lower 1.4 statements). 0 0 production rates 2011 2012 2013 2014 Fresh water use in million m3 COD is the amount of oxygen required for the chemical oxidation of substances in the waste water effluent that is discharged into surface waters. Fresh water consumption m3 per ton of production 500 20 • The COD load to surface water per ton of production 400 15.6 15.3 14.9 15.2 16 remained at 0.08 kg/ton • The total COD load to surface water was stable at 300 12 1.4 kilotons 291 283 • Waste water treatment improvements at our Mauà site 200 265 263 8 have reduced COD emissions by 30 tons a year. 100 4 A planned new treatment plant will reduce COD further 0 0 by 150 tons per year 2011 2012 2013 2014 • Our Santo Andre site is now connected to the municipal waste water treatment plant, reducing COD emissions Fresh water use is the sum of the intake of groundwater, surface water and potable by 80 tons a year water. Improvement projects include: • Water saving workshops at seven Decorative Paints sites identified average savings of more than 20 percent of annual consumption from reduction and re-use projects • New evaporators at our Rotterdam site will reduce cooling water by 5 million m3 a year AkzoNobel Report 2014 | Sustainability statements 241 Independent assurance report To the readers of the AkzoNobel Report 2014 Our conclusion and opinion Furthermore we have complied with the “Verordening determination of the material aspects. We conducted a We have reviewed the information in the Sustainability gedragsen beroepsregels accountants” (VGBA). media search to compare the results with the material statements (pages 193 to 245) and in the Compliance We believe that the assurance evidence we have obtained aspects identified by the Company in order to identify any and integrity management chapter (pages 122 to 127) is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our potentially missing material aspects for The Sustainability (hereafter The Sustainability Reporting), which are part of conclusion and opinion. Reporting. the 2014 Annual Report (The Report) of Akzo Nobel N.V. (further: the Company). Key assurance matters Responsibilities of Management for The Key assurance matters are those matters that, in our Sustainability Reporting Furthermore we have audited Note 1: Managing professional judgment, were of most significance in The Board of Management is responsible for the our sustainability agenda (pages 195 to 198) of the our assurance of The Sustainability Reporting. We preparation and fair presentation of The Sustainability Sustainability statements. have communicated the key assurance matters to Reporting in scope as included above under “Our the Company. The key assurance matters are not a conclusion and opinion” in accordance with the Based on our review, nothing has come to our attention comprehensive reflection of all matters discussed. Sustainability Reporting Guidelines G4 of the Global to indicate that The Report is not fairly presented, in all Reporting Initiative supported by internally developed material respects, in accordance with the reporting criteria. These assurance matters were addressed in the context of guidelines as described in Note 2: Reporting principles Furthermore, in our opinion, the information in Note 1: our assurance of The Sustainability Reporting as a whole (pages 198 to 201). It is important to view The Managing our sustainability agenda (pages 195 to 198) is and in forming our conclusion thereon, and we do not Sustainability Reporting in The Report in the context of presented, in all material respects, in accordance with the provide a separate conclusion on these matters. these criteria. We believe these criteria are suitable in view reporting criteria. of the purpose of our assurance engagement. Judgment in determining material aspects We report, to the extent we can assess, that the To ensure that the stakeholders of the Company can As part of this, the Board of Management is responsible information concerning sustainability in the rest of The base their decisions on the information provided in for such internal control as it determines is necessary to Report is consistent with The Sustainability Reporting. The Sustainability Reporting its content should be a enable the preparation of The Sustainability Reporting that comprehensive reflection of the Company’s material is free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud Basis for our conclusion and opinion aspects. Material aspects are defined as aspects of or error. We conducted our engagement in accordance with which an omission can have a substantial impact on the the Dutch Standard 3810N: “Assurance engagements decisions of stakeholders. relating to sustainability reports”, which is a specified standard under the International Standard on Assurance This area was significant to our review in light of the Engagement (ISAE) 3000: “Assurance Engagement other Company’s move this year for the first time towards the than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information”. Sustainability Reporting Guidelines G4 of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and the inherent qualitative Our responsibilities under Standard 3810N and judgment in determining material aspects. The GRI G4 procedures performed have been further specified in the guidelines require to put emphasis on the materiality paragraph titled “Our responsibility for the assurance of principle supported by a structured process in determining The Sustainability Reporting”. the content of the report. Our review procedures included, among others, a review of the process that the Company We are independent of AkzoNobel in accordance has implemented to identify the material aspects for with the “Verordening inzake de onafhankelijkheid van The Sustainability Reporting and the ways in which accountants bij assurance-opdrachten” (ViO) and other stakeholders’ interests were taken into account as part of relevant independence requirements in The Netherlands. that. We further reviewed and discussed the Company’s 242 Sustainability statements | AkzoNobel Report 2014 Our responsibility for the assurance of The • Joining an internal audit of Health, Safety, Environment Sustainability Reporting & Security Management at the Industrial Chemicals site Our objective is to plan and perform the assurance in Frankfurt, Germany assignment in a manner that allows us to obtain sufficient • Reviewing the relevant work of the Internal Audit and appropriate assurance evidence for our conclusion function regarding The Sustainability Reporting and our opinion regarding the information in Note 1: Managing our Our additional audit procedures on the information in sustainability agenda. Note 1: Managing our sustainability agenda included among others: Procedures performed for the review of The Sustainability • Testing the relevant work of the Internal Audit function Reporting are aimed at determining the plausibility of in respect of the information in Note 1: Managing our information and are less extensive than those for a sustainability agenda reasonable level of assurance. • Interviews with relevant staff at corporate level responsible for providing the information for Note 1: Our audit of the information in Note 1: Managing our Managing our sustainability agenda sustainability agenda has been performed with a high, but not absolute, level of assurance, which means we may not During the assurance process we discussed the necessary have detected all errors and fraud. changes of The Sustainability Reporting and reviewed the final version of The Report to ensure that it reflects our Our review procedures on The Sustainability Reporting findings. included among others: • A risk analysis, including a media search, to identify Amsterdam, February 11, 2015 relevant sustainability issues for the Company in the KPMG Sustainability, reporting period Part of KPMG Advisory N.V. • Reviewing the suitability of the internal reporting criteria including conversion factors used W.J. Bartels RA, Partner • Evaluating the design and implementation of the systems and processes for the collection, processing and control of the information in scope for the review, including the consolidation of the data • Interviewing management at corporate and business level responsible for the sustainability and compliance and integrity policies, implementation, management, internal controls, monitoring and reporting • Interviews with relevant staff at corporate and business level responsible for providing the information and consolidating the data for The Sustainability Reporting • Evaluating internal and external documentation, based on sampling, to determine whether the information in The Sustainability Reporting is supported by sufficient evidence AkzoNobel Report 2014 | Sustainability statements 243 Sustainability performance summary Economic/Governance/Social Target Target Area 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2020 Product Eco-premium solutions with downstream benefits % of revenue – – 17 18 19 – 20 Eco-premium solutions % of revenue 21 22 22 24 24 30 – Business integrity Code of Conduct alleged complaints handled by the Compliance Committee number 23 24 24 9 11 – – Code of Conduct trained % of employees 95 95 96 95 NA1 – – Health and Safety Fatalities employees number 1 2 2 0 0 0 0 Total reportable injury rate employees/supervised contractors /million hours 3.6 3.1 2.4 2.3 1.8 <2.0 <1.0 Lost time injury rate employees/supervised contractors /million hours 1.6 1.3 1.1 1.3 0.9 1.3 – Occupational illness rate employees /million hours 0.3 0.3 0.2 0.1 0.3 – – Total illness absence rate employees % 1.9 2.0 2.0 2.1 2.1 1.9 – Fatalities contractors (supervised plus independent) number 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 Total reportable injury rate independent contractors /million hours 3.0 3.5 4.2 3.5 2.9 – – Manufacturing sites with behavior-based safety program % of sites 72 76 76 96 98 100 – Distribution incidents number 91 80 46 48 52 – – Motor vehicle incidents with injury number 34 29 28 19 20 – – Employees Employee numbers (FTE) number 55,600 57,240 55,272 49,561 47,207 – – Female executives % 12 13 15 16 17 20 – Executives from high growth markets % 12 13 13 14 16 20 – Employee engagement index 1-5 scale 3.56 3.74 3.80 3.88 3.97 >4.00 – Community Program investment in € millions 1.5 1.5 1.5 1.0 1.0 – – Reliable operations Management audits plus reassurance audits number 61 66 61 56 63 – – Safety incidents (Level 3) number 10 8 3 0 1 0 0 Safety incidents (Level 1, 2, 3) number 32 36 23 14 15 – – Significant loss of containment (Level D) number 0 2 0 1 0 0 0 Regulatory actions (Level 4) number 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Sourcing Critical PR2 spend covered by supplier management framework % of spend – – 69 80 83 88 – Product related suppliers signed Vendor Policy % of spend 91 95 97 96 98 98 – NPR3 suppliers signed Vendor Policy % of spend – 77 80 83 80 80 – Suppliers on SSV program since 20074 number 266 304 373 392 432 – – Renewable raw materials % organic RM – – 13 13 13 – – 1 No 2014 data are available due to implementation of new Learning Management System. 3 NPR – Non-product related. 2 PR – Product related (raw materials and packaging). 4 SVV program targets are included in the Critical PR spend coverage KPI. 244 Sustainability statements | AkzoNobel Report 2014 Environmental Target Target Area 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2020 Raw material efficiency Total waste kiloton 258 217 203 161 149 – – per ton of production kg/ton 13.1 11.6 11.0 9.0 8.6 -10% – Total non-reusable waste kiloton 103 96 85 65 72 – – per ton of production kg/ton 5.3 5.1 4.6 3.6 4.1 – – Hazardous waste total kiloton 77 71 71 62 58 – – per ton of production kg/ton 3.9 3.8 3.8 3.5 3.4 – – Hazardous waste non-reusable kiloton 29 26 20 17 22 – – per ton of production kg/ton 1.5 1.4 1.1 1.0 1.2 – – Hazardous waste to landfill kiloton 4.7 3.0 2.7 1.9 1.7 – – per ton of production kg/ton 0.24 0.16 0.15 0.11 0.10 – – Maintain natural resources/fresh air Fresh water use million m3 309 291 283 265 263 – – per ton of production m3/ton 15.7 15.6 15.3 14.9 15.2 – – COD emissions kiloton 1.9 1.8 1.6 1.4 1.4 – – per ton of production kg/ton 0.10 0.10 0.09 0.08 0.08 – – Manufacturing sites with sustainable fresh water % 48 74 83 85 89 100 – VOC emissions kiloton 4.3 3.6 3.6 3.1 3.1 – – per ton of production kg/ton 0.22 0.19 0.19 0.17 0.18 0.19 – NOx emissions kiloton 2.0 2.0 1.9 1.3 1.3 – – per ton of production kg/ton 0.10 0.11 0.10 0.08 0.08 – – SOx emissions kiloton 7.1 7.7 7.6 4.6 3.7 – – per ton of production kg/ton 0.36 0.41 0.41 0.26 0.22 – – Direct CO2(e) emissions (Scope 1) million tons 2.0 1.6 1.5 1.1 1.1 – – per ton of production kg/ton 102 85 82 64 63 -10% – Indirect CO2(e) emissions (Scope 2) million tons 3.2 3.2 3.2 2.8 2.8 – – per ton of production kg/ton 165 171 175 158 161 -10% – Total energy consumption 1000TJ 111 107 106 99 98 – – per ton of production GJ/ton 5.7 5.7 5.7 5.6 5.7 – – Value chain Total CO2(e) emissions (cradle-to-grave) 1 million tons – – 27.5 26.5 26.9 – – per ton of product 1 ton/ton – – 1.7 1.6 1.7 – -25–30% Total CO2(e) emissions (cradle-to-gate) 2 million tons 15.9 16.1 15.9 – – – – per ton of product 2 kg/ton 960 950 950 – – – – 1 Reported from 2012. Includes impact from VOC emissions. 2 Reported up to 2012. AkzoNobel Report 2014 | Sustainability statements 245 Index AkzoNobel at a glance cover flap Earnings per share 140 Powder Coatings 83 Audit Committee 108 Eco-premium solutions 48, 210 Product stewardship 224 Auditor’s report 184 Emissions 214, 217 Profit allocation 187 Automotive and Aerospace Coatings 82 Employees 51, 218 Property, plant and equipment 158 Board of Management 100 End-user segments 34 Provisions 163, 168 Borrowings 169, 170 Executive Committee 100 Pulp and Performance Chemicals 95 Business Area statistics 190 Financial calendar 247 Raw materials 50, 55, 238 Business performance 61 Financial instruments 175 Regional statistics 191 Carbon footprint 214 Functional Chemicals 94 Remuneration 128, 172 Cash, cash flow and net debt 47, 142, 161 Functional excellence 89 Remuneration Committee 110 CEO statement 8 Glossary 248 Report of the Supervisory Board 106 Code of Conduct 122 How we create value 4, 46 Resource Efficiency Index 29, 209, 214 Commercial excellence 89, 208 Human cities initiative 10 Return on investment 28, 44 Community Program 232 Industrial Chemicals 94 Return on sales 44 Company financial statements 179 Industrial Coatings 83 Risk management 52 Compliance 114, 122 Innovation 32 Safety 221 Consolidated balance sheet 141 Intangible assets 156 Segment information 144 Consolidated statement of cash flows 142 Integrated supply chain 28, 89 Shareholders’ equity 162 Consolidated statement of changes in equity 143 Internal controls 52, 102, 109, 121 Specialty Chemicals 86 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 140 Invested capital 48 Stakeholder engagement 202 Consolidated statement of income 140 “Let’s Colour” 231 Strategic targets 4, 5, 44, 45 Contingent liabilities and commitments 171 Marine and Protective Coatings 82 Strategy 26 Continuous improvement 32 Net debt 47, 161 Supervisory Board 103 Core principles and values 121, 127, 228 Nomination Committee 110 Surface Chemistry 95 Corporate governance 113 Operating income 47, 151 Sustainability statements 193 Cradle-to-grave carbon footprint 214 Outlook 9, 49 Sustainability framework 196 Decorative Paints 62 Pensions 163 Talent management 89, 229 Divestments 47 Performance Coatings 74 Ten-year financial summary 188 Dividend proposal 48, 187 Planet Possible 29, 30, 194, 202 Waste 50, 239 246 Financial calendar 2015 April 21 April 22 April 24 Report for the Annual General Ex-dividend date of first quarter Meeting of 2014 final dividend shareholders April 27 April 28 – May 13 May 15 May 19 Record date of 2014 Election period cash or Determination of Payment date cash final dividend stock final dividend exchange ratio dividend and delivery of new shares July 21 October 22 February 11 Report for the Report for the 2016 Report for the second quarter third quarter full-year 2015 and the fourth quarter 247 Glossary Adjusted earnings per share Earnings per share GHG Basic earnings per share from continuing operations Net income attributable to shareholders divided by the Greenhouse gases, including CO2, CO, CH4, N2O and HFCs, excluding incidentals in operating income, amortization weighted average number of common shares outstanding which have a global warming impact. We also include the of intangible assets and tax on these adjustments. during the year. impact of VOCs in our targets. AGM EBITDA GBS Annual General Meeting of shareholders. Operating income before depreciation, amortization and Global Business Services, which covers functional incidental items. support activities such as Human Resources, Finance and ALPS Information Management, as well as non-product related AkzoNobel Leading Performance System. Eco-efficiency Procurement. Eco-efficiency means doing more with less; creating goods BBS and services while using fewer resources and creating less HSE Behavior-based safety. A global program run at AkzoNobel waste and pollution. Health, safety and environment. manufacturing facilities and other sites. Eco-premium solutions (EPS) Invested capital Carbon footprint A measure of the eco-efficiency of our products. An Total assets (excluding cash and cash equivalents, The carbon footprint of a product or organization is the total eco-premium solution is significantly better than competing investments in a­ ssociates, the receivable from pension funds amount of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions caused during offers in the market in at least one eco-efficiency criterion in an asset position, assets held for sale) less current ­income a defined period, or across the total or part of a product (toxicity, energy use, use of natural resources/raw materials, tax payable, deferred tax liabilities and trade and other lifecycle. It is expressed in terms of the amount of carbon emissions and waste, land use, risks, health and well-being), payables. dioxide equivalents CO2(e) emitted. and not significantly worse in any other criteria. Key value chain (KVC) Code of Conduct Eco-premium solutions with downstream benefits Used to map the carbon footprint of our businesses. Key Our Code of Conduct defines our company values and how Provide tangible material or energy efficiency benefits for our value chains are product groupings with similar footprint we work. It incorporates fundamental principles on issues customers, compared with competitive products. characteristics, which are representative of the majority of such as business integrity, labor relations, health, safety, total business revenue/production. environment and security and community involvement. EMEA Europe, Middle East and Africa. LCA Community Program Lifecycle assessments are the basis of our value chain AkzoNobel’s global Community Program encourages and Emerging Europe sustainability programs. Eco-efficiency analysis (EEA) is our gives financial support for employees to get involved, handsCentral and Eastern Europe (excluding Austria), Baltic States standard assessment method. on, in their local communities. and Turkey. Loss of containment Comprehensive income Emissions and waste A loss of containment is an unplanned release of material, The change in equity during a period resulting from We report emissions to air, land and water for those product, raw material or energy to the environment transactions and other events, other than those changes substances which may have an impact on people or the (including those resulting from human error). Loss of resulting from transactions with shareholders in their environment: CO2, NOx and SOx, VOCs, chemical oxygen containment incidents are divided into four categories, capacity as shareholders. demand, hazardous and non-hazardous waste. Definitions dependent on severity, from small, on-site spill up to are in the Sustainability statements section. Level D – a significant escape. 248 Mature markets Regulatory action TSR (total shareholder return) Mature markets are comprised of Western Europe, the US, We have defined three categories of regulatory action, Used to compare the performance of different companies’ Canada, Japan and Oceania. from self-reported issues (Level 1) to formal legal stocks and shares over time. It combines share price notifications with fines above €10,000 (Level 3). appreciation and dividends paid to show the total return Natural resource use to the shareholder. The relative TSR position reflects the We do not report specific natural resource use, except REI market perception of overall performance relative to a water. We do report our use of energy and waste from Resource Efficiency Index is gross margin divided by cradlereference group. our operations, and indicate the main raw materials used to-grave carbon footprint. The index measures value created in our products. from use of raw materials and energy. Vendor Policy/SSV Vendor Policy, Supplier Support Visits, Key Supplier Net debt ROI (return on investment) Management and Together for Sustainable are all elements Defined as long-term borrowings plus short-term This is a key profitability measure and is calculated as operaof our supplier sustainability program. borrowings less cash and cash equivalents. ting income as a percentage of average invested capital. VOC Operating income ROS (return on sales) Volatile organic compounds. Operating income is defined in accordance with IFRS This is a key profitability measure and is calculated as and includes the relevant incidental items. operating income as a percentage of revenue. Operational cash flow Safety incident We use operational cash flow to monitor cash generation. It We have defined three levels of safety incidents. The highest is defined as operating income excluding depreciation and category – Level 3 – involves any loss of life; more than five amortization, adjusted for the change in operating working severe injuries; environmental, asset or business damage capital and capital expenditures. totaling more than €25 million; inability to maintain business; or serious reputational damage to AkzoNobel stakeholders. Operational eco-efficiency Refers to the eco-efficiency of our manufacturing operations. Shareholders’ equity per share Our aim is to improve operational eco-efficiency by reducing Akzo Nobel N.V. shareholders’ equity divided by the number the resources used and emissions/waste from our sites of common shares outstanding at year-end. during the manufacture of our products. RobecoSAM assessment OTIF Assesses the sustainability performance of companies On-time in-full, referring to customer service. selected for the Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI). The DJSI tracks the performance of the global sustainability P&D Dialog leaders. The index comprises the top 10 percent in each The Performance & Development Dialog is AkzoNobel’s sector for the 2,500 largest companies. global performance and appraisal system for employees. Total reportable rate of injuries (TRR) RD&I The number of injuries per million hours worked. Full Research, Development and Innovation. definitions are in the Sustainability statements. 249 Disclaimer Integrated Report 2014 In this Report 2014, great care has been taken in drawing AkzoNobel’s annual financial report has been combined with up the properties and qualifications of the product features. the sustainability report into one Report 2014. The Report No rights can be derived from these descriptions. The reader 2014 includes elements of the reporting guidelines issued is advised to consult the available product specifications by the International Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC). themselves. These are available through the relevant The sustainability sections, however, in no way form part of business units. In this publication the terms “AkzoNobel” and the company’s annual report as the company is required to “the company” refer to Akzo Nobel N.V. and its consolidated publish pursuant to Dutch law. companies in general. The company is a holding company registered in the Netherlands. Business activities are Brands and trademarks conducted by operating subsidiaries throughout the world. In this Report 2014, reference is made to brands and The terms “we”, “our” and “us” are used to describe the trademarks owned by, or licensed to, AkzoNobel. company; where they are used in the chapter “Business Unauthorized use of these is strictly prohibited. performance”, they refer to the business concerned. Safe harbor statement This Report 2014 contains statements which address such key issues as AkzoNobel’s growth strategy, future financial results, market positions, product development, products in the pipeline and product approvals. Such statements should be carefully considered and it should be understood that many factors could cause forecasted and actual results to differ from these statements. These factors include, but are not limited to, price fluctuations, currency fluctuations, developments in raw material and personnel costs, pensions, physical and environmental risks, legal issues, and legislative, fiscal and other regulatory measures. Stated competitive positions are based on management estimates supported by information provided by specialized external agencies. 250 We welcome feedback on our Report Editor 2014. You can contact us as follows: David Lichtneker Akzo Nobel N.V. Art direction and design Strawinskylaan 2555 Caroline Meads P.O. Box 75730 1070 AS Amsterdam, the Netherlands Design T +31 20 502 7555 John O’Neill F +31 20 502 7666 www.akzonobel.com Artwork Annette Toeter AkzoNobel Global Communications T +31 20 502 7833 Photography F +31 20 502 7604 Eduard de Boer E info@akzonobel.com Simone van Es AkzoNobel Investor Relations Printing T +31 20 502 7854 Tesink B.V. F +31 20 502 7605 E investor.relations@akzonobel.com Online report Nexxar gmbh 251 © CO2 neutral Printed with We print Bio ink & varnish CO2 neutrally © Drukkerij Tesink © Drukkerij Tesink 252 Sustainability statements | AkzoNobel Report 2014 Final draft TEAL Color of the Year 2014 www.akzonobel.com/colorfutures www.akzonobel.com AkzoNobel is a leading global paints and coatings company and a major producer of specialty chemicals. Calling on centuries of expertise, we supply industries and consumers worldwide with innovative products and sustainable technologies designed to meet the growing demands of our fast-changing planet. Headquartered in Amsterdam, the Netherlands, we have approximately 47,000 people in around 80 countries, while our portfolio includes well-known brands such as Dulux, Sikkens, International, Interpon and Eka. Consistently ranked as one of the leaders in AN_200220_210214 the area of sustainability, we are committed to making life more liveable and our cities more human. © 2015 Akzo Nobel N.V. All rights reserved.
