CSR Report 2014 Corporate Data (as of February 28, 2013) Revenue from Operations and Operating Income Company name Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. （Billion yen）  （Billion yen） Headquarters 8-8 Nibancho, Chiyoda-ku, 60,000 4,000 Tokyo 102-8452, Japan 56,318 3,396 Established September 1, 2005 47,863 49,916 45,000 2,920 2,956 3,000 Businesses Planning, management, and operations for the various Group companies, centered on convenience stores, general merchandise 30,000 2,000 stores, department stores, supermarkets, food services, financial services, and IT/ services 15,000 1,000 Paid-in capital ¥50 billion Employees 148,594 (consolidated) ( I n c l u d i n g t h e n u m b e r o f p a r t t i m e 0 0 employees with every 163 hours/month 2011 2012 2013 （FY） worked being counted as one employee) ■■Revenue from operations ■■Operating income Website http://www.7andi.com/en/ Revenue from Operations (FY2013) Net Sales (FY2013) Consolidated Employees (FY2013) By By By business business geographic segment company area segment ● Convenience store operations 44.4% ● Seven-Eleven Japan*1 39.4% ● Japan 75.4% ● Superstore operations 35.3% ● 7-Eleven, Inc. *1 27.5%  North America 18.4% ● ● Department store operations 15.3% ● Ito-Yokado 13.3% ● China 6.2% ● Financial services 2.8% ● Sogo & Seibu 8.2% ● Food services 1.4% ● York-Benimaru 3.9% ● Other 0.9% ● York Mart 1.3% ● Seven Bank*2 1.0% ●  Seven & I Food Systems 0.8% ● Akachan Honpo 0.9% ● SEVEN-ELEVEN HAWAII, INC. 0.3% By ● China Businesses 1.2% geographic ● Other 2.0% area segment *1 Sales represent total store sales. *2 Sales represent ordinary income. ● Japan 65.4% ●North America 32.5% Corporate information and financial details are available on the website. ● China 2.1% http://www.7andi.com/en/ir/index.html 1 Seven & i Holdings CSR Report 2014 About the CSR Report The CSR Report 2014 covers major CSR initiatives implemented Contents by Seven & i Holdings, our holding company, as well as its operating companies. Messages from the CEO and COO 3 The Report also contains the processes used to identify the five material issues facing the Seven & i Group, so that we can CSR Policies 4 collectively work as a group of companies to fulfill the Strengthening Corporate Governance and expectations and needs of stakeholders. CSR Management 5 Report coverage The Report mainly covers the following organizations. Information on each company is also available on the following Identifying Material Issues 9 websites. Stakeholder Dialog No.1 11 Sales of reporting organizations as a percentage of overall sales 98.0% Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. http://www.7andi.com/en/csr/index.html Stakeholder Dialog No.2 15 Seven-Eleven Japan Co., Ltd. (in Japanese) http://www.sej.co.jp/social/index.html Ito-Yokado Co., Ltd. (in Japanese) http://www.itoyokado.co.jp/company/iycsr/ Sogo & Seibu Co., Ltd.(in Japanese) http://www.sogo-seibu.co.jp/csr.html Material Issues Facing Seven & i Holdings York-Benimaru Co., Ltd.(in Japanese)  19 http://www.yorkbeni.co.jp/enviro/index.html York Mart Co., Ltd. (in Japanese) http://www.yorkmart.com/company/preservation/ Activities Conducted during the Year Seven & i Food Systems Co., Ltd. (in Japanese) http://www.7andi-fs.co.jp/7fs/company/csr.html Providing Social Infrastructure for Seven Bank, Ltd. an Aging Society and Declining Population 21 http://www.sevenbank.co.jp/english/ir/csr/ Providing Safety and Reliability through Akachan Honpo Co., Ltd. (in Japanese) http://www.akachan.jp/csr/index.html Products and Stores 27 7-Eleven, Inc. Non-Wasteful Usage of Products, https://www.7-eleven.com/ Ingredients and Energy 37 SEVEN-ELEVEN (HAWAII), INC. Supporting the Active Role of Women, Youth http://www.7elevenhawaii.com/home and Seniors across the Group and in Society 45 SEVEN-ELEVEN (BEIJING) CO., LTD. (in Chinese) http://www.7-11bj.com.cn/ Building an Ethical Society and Improving Resource Sustainability together with SEVEN-ELEVEN (CHENGDU) Co., Ltd. (in Chinese) http://www.7-11cd.cn/ Customers and Business Partners 55 Hua Tang Yokado Commercial Co., Ltd. (in Chinese) http://www.ht-store.com/d/index.do Chengdu Ito-Yokado Co., Ltd. (in Chinese) CSR Activities 63 http://www.iy-cd.com/ Overseas Initiative 65 Awards and Recognition by Outside parties 77 Period of the Report In principle, this Report covers our activities during FY2013 Greenhous Gus Emission Verification Statement 78 (March 2013 to February 2014). Some of our activities in FY2014 are also included. GRI／ISO26000 Content Index 79 References ・GRI G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines ・ISO26000 Disclaimer The data shown in this report are based on information as of the time Current Report January 2015 of writing. Actual activities and results may differ depending on future Scheduled publication social changes. of next Report December 2015 Seven & i Holdings CSR Report 2014 2 Messages from the CEO and COO We will dynamically move forward with efforts to solve social issues collectively as a group of companies through our business activities. Chairman and President and Chief Executive Officer Chief Operating Officer Japan’ s economy has finally escaped from a prolonged encouraging the advancement of women in the workperiod of deflation and has begun to show signs of a place is of the greatest importance. Many of our recovery thanks to the effects of‘ Abenomics’ . Nevercustomers are women and many more of our employtheless, future economic trends still require caution ees are also women. Given this unique aspect of our given Japan’ s consumption tax hikes and instability in business, we recognize the importance of management Europe’ s economy. leading by example in this matter. We have seen posiTurning our attention to the company, we find that tive effects on our sales and marketing after proactively Seven & i Holdings has expanded the number of operatappointing women to be store managers and to work in ing companies under its umbrella to approximately 150 our research and development departments. We plan and for this reason we recognize the importance of on continuing with this proactive approach moving constantly checking to make sure that our corporate forward. governance system is functioning effectively for the Today, the economy is more global than ever and the entire Group, including at those companies that are products we source and our manufacturing partners are newcomers. now located in countries around the world. This has Meanwhile, as for the social environment surrounding caused worldwide demand to rise for CSR management our operations, we find that companies are now more to be practiced across the entire supply chain, from raw than ever expected to respond in a responsible manner materials procurement to sales and consumption. to issues occurring from societal changes. These include We became a signatory to the UN Global Compact in global warming, rising demand for food safety, a declinJuly 2012 and since then have carefully abided by its 10 ing birthrate and aging population, the advancement of principles. This year we are focusing on promoting CSR women, and a declining number of retail and service through cooperation with our business partners and outlets. further expanding CSR audits carried out by third-party Amidst this, during the fiscal year under review we organizations primarily covering our private brand manorganized a stakeholder dialogue session required ufacturing partners for Seven Premium and other under the ISO26000 guidelines on corporate social brands. responsibility. During this session, we were able to verify In addition, we launched initiatives under our Omniour CSR initiatives and identify material issues (materialChannel Strategy in the second half of fiscal 2013 in ity) we must address moving forward. This has enabled which we will seamlessly balance our approach to cusus to clarify the direction of Group-wide CSR activities. tomers using both physical stores and our virtual Some of these material issues identified include Japan’ s presence on the Internet. We maintain a network in declining birthrate and aging population, the advanceJapan comprising around 18,000 stores, which covers ment of women in society, and the hollowing out of all aspects of retail, from convenience stores and genlifestyle hubs. In response to these, through our diaeral merchandise stores to department stores, logue with stakeholders we have decided to expand the supermarkets, specialty stores and restaurants. Comnumber of stores operated by Seven-Eleven, which is bining these stores and our online presence will make it moving forward under the banner of“ nearby, convepossible to provide a host of different products and nient stores,”to help alleviate inconveniences faced by services to consumers anytime and anywhere, enabling consumers. At the same time, in response to the needs us to continually fulfill the needs of customers. of consumers today, we are offering home delivery serMoving forward, in conjunction with the unique busivices through Ito-Yokado’ s online supermarket and nesses of our Group companies, we will carry out Seven-Eleven’ s own delivery service. Additionally, we initiatives that resolve social issues through our core are developing food products that are prepared easily businesses and strive to be a company with integrity under the private brand known as Seven Premium, with that is trusted by stakeholders. the goal of alleviating the burden placed on seniors in terms of meal preparation and clean up. With a decrease in the working population inevitable, 3 Seven & i Holdings CSR Report 2014 CSR Policies We conduct business activities based on the corporate creed of aiming to be a sincere company trusted by all stakeholders. In the form of Corporate Action Guidelines, we have stated the actions for realizing that creed. Corporate Creed We aim to be a sincere company that our customers trust. We aim to be a sincere company that our business partners, shareholders and local communities trust. We aim to be a sincere company that our employees trust. The basic posture of Seven & i Holdings employees http://www.7andi.com/csr/policy/guidelines.html Corporate 1. Compliance 6. H  uman Resources and WorkCreed 2. Relationship with Customers place Environment 3. Relationship with Business 7. E  nvironmental Management Seven & i Partners 8. S  ocial and Cultural ContribuHoldings Corporate 4. Relationship with Shareholders tion Activities Action Guidelines and Investors 9. R  eporting Misconduct and 5. Relationship with Local Violative Conduct Communities Specific policies for each area Policies for each measure Quality Policy (In Japanese) http://www.7andi.com/csr/policy/quality.html Basic Policy on Sustainable Procurement (In Japanese) http://www.7andi.com/csr/policy/procurement.html Environmental guidelines and environmental rules (In Japanese) http://www.7andi.com/csr/policy/environment.html Seven & i Holdings Environmental Declaration Fundamental Policies Relating to Measures to Contribute to the Prevention of Global Warming http://www.7andi.com/en/csr/policy/environment_02.html Basic Policy on Social and Cultural Contribution, Social and Cultural Contribution Action Guidelines http://www.7andi.com/en/csr/policy/contribute.html Seven & i Holdings supports the 10 principles of the UN Global Compact, a worldwide framework for achieving sustainable growth, and carries out CSR activities through its core businesses to fulfill these principles. * Visit the following link to learn more about the UN Global Compact. http://www.ungcjn.org/index.html Seven & i Holdings CSR Report 2014 4 Strengthening Corporate Governance and CSR As a holding company that oversees and controls its operating companies, it is our mission to strengthen corporate governance and maximize the enterprise value of our Group. Corporate Governance System their operating performance, and by exchanging opinSupported by Executive Officer and ions with Directors and others at meetings concerning Corporate Auditor Systems company operations, corporate governance, and other matters. The Board of Directors of Seven & i Holdings is com*1 S even & i Holdings emphasizes on the independence of outside posed of 14 Directors (of whom four are independent Directors and Audit & Supervisory Board Members. Individuals who are selected are unlikely to be in a conflict of interest with general outside Directors). The term of Directors has been set shareholders and who are capable of offering supervision, auditing, to one year, to reflect the intentions of shareholders in advice, and suggestions based on expert knowledge and experience, a timely manner. The Executive Officer system has been from objective and neutral standpoints. *2 The number is as of the end of August 2014. adopted for prompt decision making and operations. The Board of Directors is responsible for formulating business strategies and supervising operations, and 19 Internal Control Systems Executive Officers, including those who also serve as Directors, are in charge of operating performance. Seven & i Holdings has worked to improve and reinforce The Audit & Supervisory Board is composed of five Internal Control Systems, to ensure the following: (1) members (of whom three are independent outside effectiveness and efficiency of business operations; (2) members), and monitors administration. credibility of financial statements; (3) compliance of In addition to attending Board Meetings and other business activities with laws and regulations; and (4) important meetings, the Audit & Supervisory Board proper conservation of assets. Members exchange opinions with the Representative The Auditing Office, which is the independent internal Director and interview Directors regarding the status of auditing division, has the management function to conoperational performance. In addition, they share inforfirm and instruct internal auditing by operating mation with operating companies ’directors and companies or directly audit them, and the internal auditcorporate auditors and strictly audit the directors’pering function for auditing the holding company Seven & i formance of duties. They also exchange Independent Holdings. In addition to the persons in charge of busiAuditors, and collaborate closely with them in auditing. ness auditors for performing these operations, persons Outside Directors and outside corporate Auditors in charge of evaluating internal controls have been supervise and audit operating performance by presentappointed, and they evaluate internal controls of core ing advice and suggestions to ensure the validity and operating companies. appropriateness of decisions made by Directors and Corporate governance and CSR Management System General Meeting of Shareholders Appointment, Appointment, Appointment, dismissal dismissal dismissal Audit & Supervisory Board Auditing Board of Directors (5 members, including 3 independent (14 members, including 4 independent outside members) outside directors) Supervision of management Auditing Reporting Appointment, supervision Execution of operations Representative Directors Independent Auditing office Various committees Auditors Audit (CSR Management Committee, Risk Management Committee, collaboration Information Management Committee, Group Synergy Committee) Auditing, Monitoring Each division Auditing Operating companies Operating companies Operating companies Operating companies 5 Seven & i Holdings CSR Report 2014 Management Committees Risk Management Committee Seven & i Holdings has established the CSR ManageThe Risk Management Committee regards all phenomena ment Committee, Information Management Committee, that threaten continuation of our businesses and hinder Risk Management Committee, and Group Synergy Comsustainable growth as risks, and works to strengthen mittee which report to the Representative Director. comprehensive and integrated risk management. Each committee cooperates with the operating compaIn FY 2013, the Committee made improvements to risk nies to determine Group policies and to manage and assessment techniques and promoted the sharing of supervise their dissemination and execution with an eye knowledge and know-how among operating companies to strengthening corporate governance. in an effort to improve the appropriateness of risk management. CSR Management Committee In FY 2014, the Committee will continue to manage business continuity and the soundness of the Group’ s The CSR Management Committee endeavors to mainmanagement practices. To facilitate sustained growth, tain compliance with the Seven & i Holdings Corporate the Committee will also work to strengthen collaboraAction Guidelines, with the basic motto of“ acting sintion with management and reinforce its compliance and cerely”with respect to various stakeholders. To ensure risk controls. compliance with the Action Guidelines, three subcommittees (Corporate Ethics and Culture Subcommittee, Group Synergy Committee Consumer Affairs and Fair Business Practices Subcommittee, and Environment Subcommittee) have been The Group Synergy Committee is composed of subcomestablished under the CSR Management Committee. mittees on merchandising, systems, building equipment, Each subcommittee prioritizes main issues to be sales promotion, etc. By sharing and utilizing the experaddressed from the standpoint of the Group’ s business tise in product development, sales, promotion, etc. that characteristics, and then develops and implements each operating company has separately cultivated, our measures for achieving solutions. Group creates safe, reliable, and useful products and In November 2013, there was an incident where certain services of high quality; of which Seven Premium prodtenant restaurants within the store facilities managed by ucts are the leading example. Making use of the scale Sogo & Seibu Company, Limited and Mall & SC Developmerit brought about for the Group, significant cost ment Inc. mislabeled menu items and ingredients that reductions have also been attempted through collabordiffered from those that were actually served. After this ative purchasing of commercial and construction incident was brought to light, Sogo & Seibu immediately materials confronted the tenants in question and their operating In the second half of FY 2013, the Committee formed a companies to rectify the misleading labeling, and the new subcommittee for promoting the Group’ s Omnicompany will also further reinforce its confirmation of menu Channel Strategy and since then the Committee has labels to prevent similar incidents from occurring again. been sharing and monitoring its progress. Information Management Committee The Information Management Committee works to control issues related to information management. In FY 2013, the Committee carried out voluntary and third-party checks on compliance with the Guidelines Related to IT Information Security and Internet Businesses at five companies that were not covered in the previous fiscal year, and implemented improvements based on the results of the checks. In FY 2014, the Committee will carry out re-checks at the seven companies that received information security assessments in FY 2012 and will move forward with the formulation of a common Group-wide information security policy and IT security standards based on changes in the external environment. Seven & i Holdings CSR Report 2014 6 Strengthening Corporate Governance and CSR Management CSR Implementation Structure Our CSR initiatives are implemented by the CSR ManSubcommittee. agement Committee, which is chaired by the president Establishing its project, each subcommittee examines of Seven & i Holdings and composed of the people and develops specific measures to be solved for the CSR responsible for CSR-related matters, along with its three challenge facing the Seven & i Group. These measures subcommittees ‒ the Corporate Ethics and Culture are then implemented through Group-wide efforts upon Subcommittee, the Consumer Affairs and Fair Business approval of the subcommittees. Practices Subcommittee, and the Environment Organization of CSR Management Committee CSR Management Committee Corporate Ethics and Culture Consumer Affairs and Fair Business Environment Subcommittee Subcommittee Practices Subcommittee Major Issues Projects Major Issues Projects Major Issues Projects Personnel Responding sincerely Enhancing customer Reducing CO2 emissions development to customer opinions service skills Assessing and reducing and water use environmental impact Improving work Buyer training seminars Promoting the 3Rs*2 Thoroughly ensuring environment Improving product quality compliance and ensuring safety Improving quality control Forest conservation Promoting Seven Forest project activities Creating Fulfilling normalization*1 Thorough assurance of Workplaces appropriate product labeling Raising environmental Establishing fair Environmental Promoting diversity awareness/sharing business practices information training Compliance with Anti-Monopoly information Healthy companies Act, Subcontract Act, and related laws and regulations Employee opinion survey *1 Normalization: enabling everyone to take part in social activities in a range of areas, irrespective of age or handicap *2 3Rs: Reduce, Reuse, and Recycle Proactively Working to Solve Social Issues through Our Core Businesses by Deepening Dialogue with Stakeholders quences on the environment and society. Presently, we are thoroughly fulfilling our corporate social responsibilities while also balancing solutions to social issues with improving our corporate competitiveness as well as promoting creating shared value (CSV) efforts for both society and the company. Our ultimate Director goal is to product even greater value aimed at the realSenior Officer of CSR Department ization of a sustainable society. Junro Ito To continually serve as a company with integrity that is We have seen stakeholder needs change and now trusted by customers, we will deepen dialogue with there are rising expectations for companies to take stakeholders, fulfill our corporate social responsibilities, action toward solving social issues both in Japan and and make proactive efforts through our core businesses globally over the medium to long term. This change has to find solutions to the five material issues identified this been caused by rising consumer concerns about the fiscal year. safety and reliability of food resulting from the food *1 Japan’ s Stewardship Code fraud incidents that occurred last year, the release of A set of principles in which institutional investors fulfill their fiduciary duty by encouraging mediumto long-term corporate growth through Japan’ s Stewardship Code*1 by the Financial Services dialogue (Japan’ s Financial Services Agency announced the findings of Agency, and increasing risks associated with climate the Council of Experts Concerning the Japanese Version of the Stewardchange seen in the IPCC*2 5th Assessment Report. ship Code in February 2014). The Financial Services Agency requires that institutional investors that state their support and participation in Seven & i Holdings, through its CSR Management Comthe code to disclose and report their policies and results. mittee and its three subcommittees, has concentrated *2 IPCC on elimination, mitigation, and improvement efforts as The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change is an organization part of its corporate social responsibilities. This is based established in 1988 by the World Meteorological Organization and the on an awareness and understanding that legal compliUnited Nations Environment Programme in order to comprehensively evaluate climate change, impacts, response and mitigation measures ance for carrying out its businesses as well as its from scientific, technological, and socioeconomic vantage points. (The business activities themselves have negative conse5th Assessment Report was released in March 2014.) 7 Seven & i Holdings CSR Report 2014 Targets and Progress by each Subcommittee Major FY2013 targets Results for FY2013 Evaluation Plans for FY2014 Corporate Ethics and Culture Subcommittee Thoroughly ensuring compliance, Creating fulfilling workplaces Establishing common basic components of Group-wide employee education, such as the Formulated nine basic components and incorporated Check the progress of education programs on the 〇 corporate creed and developing educational these into educational tools basic components and conduct follow-up tools Support operating companies that permanently Promoting employment of people with employ more than 101 workers to hire people with Achieved an employment rate of people with disabilities and achieving the percentage 〇 disabilities in response to the increase in the number disabilities of 2.19% (Group wide) required by law throughout the Group of companies required to pay the employment levy as of April 2015 Compiled the Seven & i Holdings Normalization Promote the utilization of the Seven & i Holdings Raising employee awareness and developing Support Guide for employees in charge of human 〇 Normalization Support Guide and hold hands-on tools for promoting normalization resources, hiring, and education learning sessions and visits Promote the sharing of information among Group Developing standards related to the work Created Group-wide standards for overtime hours 〇 companies to achieve standards and make further environment of the Group and taking holidays/paid leave improvements Identify issues with health enhancement initiatives, set targets, and create an action plan Established the Seven & i Health Management Project Creating a project to tackle employee health Develop an organizational structure to engage in and identified issues related to enhancing the health 〇 enhancement measures health management of employees Group-wide Introduce a health management system for enhancing the health of employees Diversity Promotion Project Expanding events for building networks among Held events for female employees raising children Expand the number of events at operating companies 〇 women every other month for a total of six times for building networks among women Increase the number of companies providing Providing employees who have returned from Created a DVD introducing role models and held 〇 orientation to employees who returned from childcare childcare leave with orientation orientation at each Group company leave and review how the orientation is run Held presentations on the promotion of diversity in Holding awareness-raising events for managers 〇 Hold awareness-raising events for managers August and February Establish a year-round corner specializing in the Conducting ongoing awareness-raising Conducted awareness-raising activities using internal 〇 promotion of women's involvement in the workplace activities using internal newsletters, etc. newsletters, etc. within internal newsletters Focusing on external communications Implemented the Positive Action Declaration and (implementing the Positive Action Declaration, 〇 Continue with external communications received an award for our empowerment efforts etc.) Held events for male employees raising children to Hold events for fathers to encourage greater Implementing awareness-raising activities for encourage greater participation in the childcare 〇 participation in the childcare process male employees raising children process Create a handbook for managers Consumer Affairs and Fair Business Practices Subcommittee （１） Responding sincerely to customer opinions Continue to hold Group-wide joint training for Holding joint training for new customer service Held joint training for new employees in April and 〇 employees with experience at the customer service office employees experienced employees in October office (2) Ensuring the quality and safety of products and services Held joint seminar for apparel buyers four times (total Holding joint seminar for apparel buyers in Hold Group-wide joint seminar for apparel and of 209 in attendance; representing 78% of apparel 〇 cooperation with inspection organizations household item buyers buyers) (Apparel/household products) Reviewing the Developed quality control system for Group Further improve quality control system at Group quality control organization based on the companies based on the Product Safety Guidelines 〇 companies and formulate a Quality Policy Product Safety Guidelines for Distributors for Distributors (Food) Conducting joint inspections of Carried out checks of audit items using a common business partner factories by the people Further improve quality control system at Group Group-wide plant inspection sheet (May and △ responsible for quality control of Group companies and formulate a Quality Policy January) companies (3) Establishing fair business practices Developed and checked systems, including for new Sharing and building on good fair trading Continue to build management and training systems to Group companies, and shared initiatives of Group 〇 practices among Group companies ensure fair trading practices among Group companies companies Holding regular training on the Subcontract Act Continue to hold regular training on the Subcontract Held joint training in April and November 〇 and the Anti-Monopoly Act Act and the Anti-Monopoly Act Sharing measures taken by Group companies Share response measures among Group companies in Held joint training in June and shared information on to ensure a smooth transition to the revised 〇 advance of the next consumption tax hike slated for the status of government relations, etc. consumption tax 2015 Environment Subcommittee (1) Understanding and reducing environmental impacts Increased the number of operating companies Increase the number of operating companies subject Improving CO2 management (setting targets subject to third party verification of GHG emissions 〇 to third party verification of GHG emissions from nine and strengthening third party verification) from five to nine to 10 Increased the number of Seven Farm recyclingPromote food recycling oriented agricultural corporations that utilize food Promoting food recycling and installing more residues/leftovers from seven to 10 ○ PET bottle collection machines Increased the number of stores with automatic PET Increase the number of PET bottle collection machines bottle collection machines from 207 to 230 Strengthening environment management Seven-Eleven Japan obtained ISO14001 certification ○ Expand the scope of ISO certification system (2) Forest conservation activities Forest conservation activities were held a total of 28 Continuing with employee volunteer work 〇 Expand the number of employee volunteers times and 151 Group employees took part Developed two private brand paper-packaged Developing private brand products using forest beverage items that use forest thinnings from Seven 〇 Increase the number of eco-friendly products thinnings Forests (3) Raising environmental awareness and sharing information Enhance employee training and challenge employees Implementing of environmental information Held environmental training as part of education 〇 to pass the Certification Test for Environmental training provided to Group employees based on their rank Specialists Seven & i Holdings CSR Report 2014 8 Identifying Material Issues Seven & i Holdings has conducted dialogs with many stakeholders and identified material issues that should be addressed so that the entire Group can respond to the expectations and demands of stakeholders. We will introduce the identification process here. ●Material Issues identification process Step 1 Step 2 Selection of social Interviews with issues that should be stakeholders considered In order to identify material issues, social issues An interview survey in a questionnaire format that should be considered where selected. In was conducted with customers, business partaddition to the Group’ s Corporate Action Guideners, shareholders and investors, and employees lines, global frameworks such as GRI Guidelines in order to understand the future expectations G4, ISO26000, and Millennium Development and demands of all stakeholders towards the Goals; issues facing Japan such as those debated Group for the 33 social issues that were by the Japanese government; and survey items of selected. A qualitative assessment was made of CSR rating agencies were also taken into considhow much of a priority the Group should place eration to summarize 92 social issues. The relaon each issues. In addition, comments were tionship with the Group ’ s business was received concerning the expectations of the evaluated and 33 social issues that should be Group and the reason for these expectations. considered were selected. ●Stakeholders interviewed and their expectations ●Selection method Scope of interviews Expectations of stakeholders (examples) ・Improving product safety The Customers of major Customers ・Securely protecting Group’ s operating companies personal information, etc. policy ・Further improvement of reliability throughout the Socials entire value chain through Main business Issues Business shopping assistance for partners of major in Japan partners people who feel operating companies inconvenient for shopping 92 items 33 items ・Continuing support for disaster areas, etc. International Shareholders ・Responding to disposal loss guidelines Retail industry and ・Supporting the needs of analysts investors elderly people ・Responding to population CSR Executives and aging throughout the entire evaluation Employees employees of major Group items Group companies ・Pursuing further quality and safety, etc. 9 Seven & i Holdings CSR Report 2014 Purpose of material issues identification ● Concentrate on key issues that should be focused on and respond appropriately as the scope of Seven & i Holdings’business expands and related social issues and social demands become more diverse. ● Clarify the direction towards CSR for the entire Group and maximize Group synergies. ● Implement CSR management and information disclosure in line with global standards. Step 3 Step 4 Preparation of material issues Dialogs with stakeholders candidates based on the interview results Based on the expectations of each stakeholder, Based on the interview results and the material the importance of the 33 social issues was evaluissues candidates that were prepared, dialogs ated based on the two axes of the importance to were conducted with experts in order to discuss each stakeholder and the importance to each what issues Seven & i Holdings should focus on. major operating company. Then, after consoliThese dialogs were participated in by members of dating each level of importance to evaluate the the management of Seven & i Holdings and major overall level of importance, material issues candioperating companies including the President and dates for the entire Group were prepared. Chief Operating Officer. Opportunities were established to discuss the entire Group and each business area as opinions were exchanged with experts. Importance for each major Importance for each operating company stakeholder ●Overview of dialogs held Overall dialogs Experts were invited to discuss with the management Seven & i Holdings material issues that should be addressed by entire Group. Details on P.11 Dialogs for each major Importance for the entire Group operating company Experts were invited to discuss with the representatives of the major operating companies (Seven-Eleven Japan, Ito-Yokado, and Sogo & Seibu) the materialities for each operating company. Details on P.15 Seven & i Holdings CSR Report 2014 10 Identifying Material Issues Stakeholder Dialog No.1 As the social issues surrounding companies continue to accumulate and we expand the scope of business at Seven & i Holdings, we are facing more diverse social issues and social demands. In response to this situation, dialogs where held between experts and our management team in order to identify which material issues should be focused on. Experts Seven & i Holdings Toshihiko Goto Noritoshi Murata Representative Director, Sustainability Forum President and Chief Operating Officer (COO) Japan (non-profit organization) Katsuhiro Goto Hideto Kawakita Managing Executive Officer and CEO, IIHOE (International Institute for Human, Chief Administrative Officer (CAO) Organization and the Earth) Junro Ito Scott Davis Director and Senior Officer of CSR Department Professor, Rikkyo University Outside Director, Seven & i Holdings 11 Seven & i Holdings CSR Report 2014 ESG ― A Shift to Management with an Awareness of the Triple Bottom Line Toshihiko Goto: Recently, there has been much talk of the word ESG (environment, social, and governance) in the world of finance. How do companies approach ESG? In other words, how companies respond to various environmental issues, how companies address social issues such as human rights and contributions to local communities, and how governance is formed to address Toshihiko Goto these issues has come to influence the long-term sucSustainability Forum Japan cess of companies. (non-profit organization) Since the release of the Principles for Responsible Investment by the United Nations in 2006, the ratio of SRI investments that incorporate investment behavior in Hideto Kawakita: This law also obligates companies consideration of ESG and ethical considerations in addiwith over 500 employees to disclose information tion to profits has rapidly expanded in Europe and related to ESG, further reflecting the increasing imporNorth America, growing to almost half of all investtance of the perspective of sustainable management. ments. Meanwhile, while this figure is still 0.2% in Japan, the Financial Services Agency released the Japan’ s Noritoshi Murata: We are constantly aware of these Stewardship Code (Principles for Responsible Instituissues in our work. These types of issues have grown in tional Investors) in February 2014. This code stipulates importance ever since the Lehman Shock in 2008. the need for institutional investors to conduct dialogs with companies invested from a long-term perspective, Toshihiko Goto: Some people say that the reason why contribute to the sustainable growth of companies ESG is becoming increasingly focused on is that curinvested in, and explain this information to customers. It rently the majority, or 80%, of corporate value is will perhaps become more likely for Japanese financial accounted for by intangible assets. The idea is that institutions to request to have dialogs with companies strengthening ESG causes intangible assets to increase like your company in the future. For this reason, manand corporate value to grow. agement based on the triple bottom line that incorporates environmental and social aspects in addition to Scott Davis: Because retail differs from industries such economic aspects will become increasingly important. as the finance and automotive industries in which relaI would also like to introduce another important develtionships with customers are decided on for many years opment in Europe. In April 2014 the European Parliaat the time of purchase or contract signing, in the case ment passed a law obligating large companies to create of a retail business like Seven & i Holdings we have to a policy for diversity for the board of directors and to take particular care to keep constant good relations disclose this policy. The idea is that governance without while coming in contact with customers every day. I diversity will not create innovation and this will impede believe that the social capital that is established through corporate development, and by extension the developthese relationships is also an important intangible asset. ment of Europe overall. While it will probably take two to three years for each country to actual establish Noritoshi Murata: The Group has worked to establish domestic legislation, I believe that this development is the relationship we currently have with stakeholders indicative of global trends. since its foundation based on the principles of trust and sincerity. This has been enabled not by management of the corporate organization by top management, but Noritoshi Murata rather by the strengthening of organizational strength Seven & i Holdings that allows employees working within the Group to form teams and take action. Creating frameworks for governance among the so-called the rank and file of the organization is important for management. It will also be important to create frameworks that allow all members of the Group to participate in management in order to respond to this new era for the retail industry through means such as omni-channel retailing. Seven & i Holdings CSR Report 2014 12 Identifying Material Issues Stakeholder Dialog No.1 Establishing a Business Model that Anticipates Society Twenty Years from Now Hideto Kawakita: In addition to current value, shareholders and other external stakeholders are currently also interested in how companies will increase future value. It is becoming necessary to faithfully present and implement not only short-term financial indicators, but also medium to long-term non-financial indicators. In Hideto Kawakita that case, it is necessary to directly look at not only the future vision for your own company, but also Japan as a IIHOE (International Institute for Human, whole. For example, one pressing issue is the rapidly Organization and the Earth) aging society. While households composed of only the old elderly with an age of 75 or above was 4% in 2000, it is now 7 %, and is expected to be 10 % or higher in surveys on environmental issues and human rights 2020. If that is the case, there may be plans for elderly issues in the supply chains of Asian companies. people to live together to some extent and provide Because it is extremely difficult to directly improve these each other mutual support. issues in the field, companies like your company that This could cause your company’ s business to change in serve as purchasers are being called on to make some ways. While you may currently being giving some improvements. In situations like these, it is not enough consideration to delivering products to the residences to say thing like“ our company only buys the of elderly people, it may become necessary to provide products.” support in terms of actual places to live in addition to this. Hideto Kawakita: Furthermore, promoting the active participation of women and the employment of young Katsuhiro Goto: There are still areas where we have not people are also extremely important issues in considerreally given full consideration to the idea of future value. ation of future value. In consideration of relationships Going forward we may need to incorporate into manwith stakeholders, your company should value how agement the concept of back-casting, in other words employees working at your company feel joy and share considering what we need to do now in response to the future, and how to make employees feel proud how the future is likely to develop in ten or twenty years about working at your company. from now. Scott Davis: At the same time, the active participation of Hideto Kawakita: For this reason, the issue of resource elderly employees is also an issue. While elderly depletion is also an important issue. There have also employees have a wealth of experience and skills, the been global movements calling for the procurement of timing at which they require breaks differs from young forest resources and marine resources that is both ethiemployees. By ensuring that elderly employees have an cal and sustainable. ideal working environment, it will advance human rights efforts for the workplace overall. Furthermore, creating Toshihiko Goto: I feel that there is still a lack of awarean environment that will allow both elderly people and ness in Japan regarding these issues, particularly global younger people to work towards the same goal in the procurement. This issue has gained a lot of attention same manner as in society as a whole will be mutually recently, as European NGOs have conducted detailed satisfying and create a rich, human quality at the workplace. Katsuhiro Goto Noritoshi Murata: We believe that it is necessary to Seven & i Holdings improve our domestic business even more going forward. In order to do so, it will be necessary to respond to the issues of supporting elderly people, employing young people, and allowing the active participation of women as has been pointed out, and I would like to address these issues immediately. 13 Seven & i Holdings CSR Report 2014 Creating Value Through Products and Services Scott Davis: Hideto Kawakita talked about the aging society previously. I would like to say that I don’ t view the aging society as an issue. As longevity is something that humans have longed for since the ancient past, we should be overjoyed if this is something that we have achieved. In other words, the problem is not the aging society, but rather the state of living that our society has created for elderly people. We need to put ourselves in Scott Davis the shoes of elderly people and think about what we Rikkyo University can do so that they can feel happy and positive towards living every day. In the relationship I have had with your company up Toshihiko Goto: Private brand development is a classic until now, I have gotten the impression that thinking of case of stakeholder engagement. By removing the walls the perspective of the other party is rooted in your DNA. within the Group and conducting engagement, synerCSR is something that should be possible to achieve if gies are created. contributions are made to society through the implementation of the core business, and I believe that your Scott Davis: Many companies have now released private company has made efforts to create social value withbrands through various processes. In general, these out specifically identifying these types of activities as products seem to have been made possible by consumCSR. I think you should communicate why you think that ers willing to compromise on quality in order to get low has been possible. At the same time, as the entire prices. However, in contrast to this, your company’ s Group continues to grow and new companies continue private brand was developed through plans refined to be added to the Group, I think you should consider based on repeated dialogs with many stakeholders as what kind of initiatives should be implemented to products based on an awareness of value from the ensure communication throughout the entire Group. customer’ s point of view. You persuaded customers to buy based on a deep level Noritoshi Murata: I mentioned previously that goverof trust rather than due to low prices. I think that you nance among the rank and file of the organization is can say that this kind of private brand development has important, and an example of this is when we lowered produced not only physical synergies, but also psychothe walls between companies following the adoption of logical synergies. a holding company structure in September 2005 and decided to grow while taking advantage of the business Junro Ito: In addition to value to customers, I feel that infrastructure and human infrastructure of each of these synergies have also been produced from the point of companies. A concrete form of this process was the creview of environmental considerations. Thanks to efforts ating of our private brand. Rather than simply placing an to make the product development team aware of enviorder with manufacturers, every member of the Group ronmental issues, there have been more ideas concernformed a team with the cooperation of partner compaing environmental considerations in products in recent nies and generated synergies to create something that years. As members of the team, I believe it is import for live up to the expectations of customers. The private us to provide input like this on social issues. brand Select Premium was created through this process. Katsuhiro Goto: In reviewing various issues in order to decide on material issues, I believe that we have Junro Ito become aware of several new things. I believe that one Seven & i Holdings of the Group’ s strengths is promptly putting initiatives based on these forms of new awareness into practice, and I feel that it is necessary to conduct these systematic reviews of issues in an ongoing manner. Seven & i Holdings CSR Report 2014 14 Identifying Material Issues Stakeholder Dialog No.2 The theme of Stakeholder Dialog No.2 is material issues for each operating company. Dialogs were conducted and opinions were exchanged between two experts and the top management of each major operating company as to what form of social responsibility should be fulfilled in consideration of characteristics each operating company. Experts Mariko Kawaguchi Chief Researcher of the Research Division, Daiwa Institute of Research Yukiko Furuya Executive Director, Nippon Association of Consumer Specialists Ryuichi Isaka Kazuhisa Toi Takashi Matsumoto Director and President, Director and President, Director and President, Seven-Eleven Japan Co., Ltd. Ito-Yokado Co., Ltd. Sogo & Seibu Co., Ltd. 15 Seven & i Holdings CSR Report 2014 Seven-Eleven Japan Co., Ltd. Creating a sustainable value chain Aiming to be a center for community living Ryuichi Isaka: One issue that we would like to focus on Ryuichi Isaka: Living centers such as government and is supply chain management. Up until now, we have bank offices have been on the decline in recent years, conducted make-to-stock production based on demand particularly in local communities. Meanwhile, with the forecasts and spent advertising expenses to sell these advance of population aging the number of mobilityproducts. However, we would like to eliminate wastes impaired persons that have difficulty visiting far locaat every stage and establish an efficient supply chain tions is on the rise. Under these circumstances, I believe through means such as gaining an accurate understandthat there is more that we can do to demonstrate our ing of customer demand at each store and having factovalue as a convenience store. ries conduct production to order based on this. For example, because convenience stores are open 24 hours a day, people can use the ATMs of financial instituYukiko Furuya: Implementing these types of measures is tions at any time. In addition, government administrative also important from the perspective of reducing food costs could be reduced if convenience stores provided loss. While relaxation of the so called one-third rule is a some government administrative services such as the issucurrent topic, most consumers don’ t even know about ing of residence certificate on the government’ s behalf. this rule. Assuming this, I think that it is important to Another option could be establishing childcare or day care provide information including the state of rules to concenters on the second floor of our stores, which would sumers so they can make their own judgments. allow parents to do their shopping when they come to pick up their children. I believe that we can help to make Ryuichi Isaka: We also believe that these issues are living in local communities more rich and rewarding by important and we are participating in demonstration collaborating with various other industries in this manner. experiments aimed at improving rules. We would like to In addition, considering the advance of population aging, deploy the lessons that we learn in these experiments I believe that visiting customers on regular routes could throughout all stores. become an important form of distribution going forward. Mariko Kawaguchi: I believe that the primary values that Mariko Kawaguchi: It is important to identify these convenience stores are being called on to fulfill are the issues in local communities and address them going demands of customers, and I believe that a certain forward. number of consumers who use convenience store see value as consisting of elements such as ethics and susYukiko Furuya: I think that convenience stores play an tainability. While it may be impossible to do things like extremely important role in local communities. For examthis for all products, it could be possible to increase the ple, consumer damage as a result of door-to-door sales number of organic products and ethical products, for and mail-order sales to elderly people has become an example for only the ingredients or seasonings conextremely big social issue. When convenience stores deliver tained in cup noodles. products that have been ordered by customers when visitAn issue that I think is particularly important now is marine ing customers on regular routes as mentioned earlier, it resources conservation efforts. You could consider develmight be possible to reduce this type of damage if informaoping products such as onigiri rice balls using salmon for tion about these issues is delivered at the same time. which Marine Stewardship Council (MSC) certification has been acquired for to promote a sustainable fishing industry. Ryuichi Isaka: I also feel that there are high expectations from society for issues such as employment in local communities. While some say that convenience stores are becoming over-saturated, I don’ t think that is the case at all. I strongly believe that there are still many places that need convenience stores and that we have an important role to fulfill. Going forward I would like to make further contributions to local communities through the implementation of omni-channel retailing. *D istribution level commercial practice of dividing the period from the production date to the best before date for processed foods into three thirds and setting delivery deadlines and sales deadlines. Seven & i Holdings CSR Report 2014 16 Identifying Material Issues (materiality) Stakeholder Dialog No.2 Ito-Yokado Co., Ltd. Sustainable procurement activities in Mariko Kawaguchi: While we did mention recycling-oricooperation with production areas ented agriculture, my impression is that in modern Japan environmental consideration tends to be equated Kazuhisa Toi: One initiative that we are actively pursuing with energy issues. But the fact is that we also need to is food loss reduction. It makes no sense to return or look at the bigger issue of recycling resources. I hope dispose products when it is still possible to sell them, that your company continues communicating the mesand if losses can be reduced, manufacturers and wholesage of the importance of not wasting resources and salers will also benefit as a result. In addition to meanot producing needless garbage. sures to review delivery dates for processed foods and other foods, by working to reduce losses for all kinds of Aiming to provide service in considerproducts including clothing, we have achieved benefits ation of diversity including a reduction in the total amount of waste. Kazuhisa Toi: Another thing we have focused on Yukiko Furuya: Initiatives like these in cooperation with recently in store management is providing services that manufacturers and distributors are important. It would match various targets. For example, when providing also be beneficial to educate consumers concerning service for students the customer may prefer a staff these issues. I think that the stance of thinking about member of the same age level to address them in a society and the environment together going forward is casual and friendly manner, when making product proimportant. posals to housewives it is important to take into consideration a woman’ s sensibility, and when providing Mariko Kawaguchi: On the other hand, when I looked at service to elderly people it is preferable for an older your store I was concerned that messages such as employee to handle them in a polite manner. There are products being organic or environmentally-friendly did also some stores that are opening PC classrooms for not really seem to come across. It seemed as if your elderly people as part as efforts to promote the use of store didn’ t really handle these types of products. the Net Supermarket service. Kazuhisa Toi: At fresh produce sale points we offer the Mariko Kawaguchi: From the perspective of diversity, it Foods with Traceability brand for which traceability is is also important to put more effort into supporting men 100% ensured from production to sales, and we also that are raising children. As women are participating focus on the advance of recycling-oriented agriculture. more actively in society now, men need to change in These products are not 100% organic and we have adaptation to this. Occasionally one hears stories of mainly focused on products that prioritize safety. We fathers taking their children to the park and feeling would like to focus more on communicating to customlonely because they are the only man there. I think your ers our commitment to these products. company can play a role in supporting men responsible for housework and childcare, for example by installing Yukiko Furuya: Listening to this, my impression is that baby seats in the men’ s restroom. while sufficient efforts are being made in sustainable agriculture and fishing, this isn’t being sufficiently comKazuhisa Toi: I see what you mean. I agree that this type municated to consumers. of support is important. We also need to consider services that can support men with children in addition to women. Another issue that stores are actively involved in is communicating the good qualities of good things. For really good products such as those that are made in Japan that emphasize Japanese traditional technologies, we would like to improve forms of presentation and serving customers so that we can faithfully communicate the good qualities of these products through means such as having customers actually touch products, actually experience products, and enjoy products visually. 17 Seven & i Holdings CSR Report 2014 Sogo & Seibu Co., Ltd. Management from a women’ s perspective Takashi Matsumoto: We have always particularly emphasized supporting the active participation of women, and at the Seibu Tokorozawa store we have adopted a new initiative of assigning women to half the full-time operations positions. As women tend to develop flat human relationships, I feel that this has led to a reduction in waste as a result. Mariko Kawaguchi: The same holds true for groups of mothers that are raising children. There are no hierarchievents. We only hold events that we can steadily concal relationships. As I have always believed that if tinue holding. women work they will work in a rational manner, I am extremely moved by the results of your company’ s Mariko Kawaguchi: In addition to providing ethical prodinitiatives. ucts, I believe that department stores have a responsibility to communicate with customers and send Takashi Matsumoto: Women also actively communicate message through products, such as products that comacross organizational boundaries, are quick to consult municate the traditional way of Japanese living, original with people and take action if they think of something, local products that will contribute to the revitalization of and like to take on new challenges and try to learn from the local economy, and products that will make the lives them. They are also very aware of time management. of elderly people easier. On the hand, when straight results are required, in some cases they feel some distress or discomfort as a result. Yukiko Furuya: Based on this perspective, while your Because working under this type of demanding environcompany’ s Pre-Mama Stations are constantly staffed by ment encourages the growth of each individual midwives to provide free consultations about child raisemployee, I would like to consider measures such as ing, in addition to this it could use these locations as a creating assignment rotations for set periods of time. forum for disseminating information on product safety, as there have been many accidents as of late involving Serving as a center for communicating baby slings. value Takashi Matsumoto: That is a very good point. We Mariko Kawaguchi: One thing that I felt after looking at could consider holding seminars on how to safely select some stores is that while there are many products with and use products. I think that this could also contribute a story such as being organic or ethical, these products to local communities. become overwhelmed by other products at times. If you I have given constant consideration to the role of don’ t do something to make people focus on these department stores within the Group, and I believe that products, people potentially interested in them won’ t the role of communicating and achieving these types of be able to notice them. values is extremely important. I would like to implement whatever we can put into practice based on the dialog Takashi Matsumoto: As you mention, not being able to we have held today. fully communicate our commitment to certain concepts in products is a major issue for us. It will not be enough to simply put out big signs or point of purchase advertising displays. This is particularly true for the concept of ethical products, as I believe this could be one of our focus areas going forward, so this is an extremely important issue. We don’ t leave it up to other people to select products for us, we make sure to go out into the field and select products that we feel comfortable recommending. In addition, we do not hold half-hearted Seven & i Holdings CSR Report 2014 18 Material Issues Facing Seven & i Holdings We identified the issues that Seven & i Holdings should address for the realization of a sustainable society through dialogue with a wide range of stakeholders. Moving forward, we will work together as a group of companies to carry out initiatives for these themes. Organization of Material Issues Based on the results of our stakeholder dialogue session, we reviewed the importance of each individual candidate for material issues and organized these once again according to the following format. ・Developing products and services for aging society ・Ensuring safety and quality of products ・Supporting consumers without easy access to stores Extremely high ・Compliance ・Providing safety and security at stores during a ・Information security disaster ・Human rights ・Promoting the reduction and recycling of garbage ・Physical and mental health of employees ・Enhancing the energy usage efficiency of stores ・Helping employees achieve a work-life balance Materiality to all stakeholders ・Raw materials procurement that helps prevent the depletion of resources ・Promoting the active involvement of women in the company ・Supporting the employment of youth ・Developing and promoting eco-friendly containers ・Contributing to safe and reliable urban ・Supporting areas affected by disasters Very high planning ・Supporting childcare through stores ・Capacity building for employees (raising ・Contributing to local communities where awareness) ・Considering the impacts business activities our stores are located have on ecosystems ・Supply chain management ・Reducing CO2 emissions throughout the product life cycle ・Utilizing seniors as employees ・Providing information required by consumers on product labels ・Preventing underage drinking and smoking ・S upporting farmers and fishermen who serve as raw materials suppliers ・Carrying out tree planting and other envi・P romoting the hiring of people with ronmental conservation activities disabilities high ・U tilizing water resources effectively ・Marketing toward consumers that raises awareness about society and the throughout the product life cycle environment ・Selling health foods ・Supporting the development of venture businesses and SMEs high Very high Extremely high Materiality to Seven & i Holdings Material Issues Identified Based on the candidates for material issues organized by level of importance, we considered the relevance of the most important matters for stakeholders and Group businesses, integrating these as follows into the Material issues facing the Seven & i Holdings Group. *Compliance matters will be addressed separately from material issues. Material Providing social infrastructure for an Issues aging society and declining population Supporting the active role of women, Material Issues youth and seniors across the Group and in society Material Providing safety and reliability Issues through products and stores Building an ethical society and improving Material Issues resource sustainability together with customers and business partners Material Non-wasteful usage of products, Issues ingredients and energy 19 Seven & i Holdings CSR Report 2014 Seven & i Holdings’philosophy toward each important challenge and specific solutions being carried out by the Group are introduced in the following pages. Material Issues Providing Social Infrastructure for an Aging Society and Declining Population P.21 The number of people, especially seniors, who feel inconvenienced or troubled by daily shopping and meals is on the rise in Japan as the number of retail stores and lifestyle hubs declines. We are working to create new shopping support services by utilizing our built-up store network as well as distribution and information system networks to help resolve this social issue. Material Issues Providing Safety and Reliability through Products and Stores P.27 Consumers are aware more than ever before about food safety issues, such as food additives and residual pesticides. As damage from earthquakes, floods and other natural disasters is on the rise in recent years, consumers are also well aware of the need to prepare for future disasters. Given this, we are working to provide safety and security through our products and stores. Material Issues Non-wasteful Usage of Products, Ingredients and Energy P.37 We recognize conserving the earth’ s environment and passing down a vibrant and beautiful natural environment is a common goal of humankind. We also believe this is our mission to society. Therefore, we are working to be more considerate of the environment in our businesses as well as cooperate with customers, business partners and local communities to use resources fully and without waste. Material Issues Supporting the Active Role of Women, Youth and Seniors across the Group and in Society P.45 Securing an adequate workforce is now a major issue facing corporate Japan and for that reason human resources will serve as our competitive strength for the future. We are building appealing and motivating workplaces for employees where each and every one can thrive at their fullest regardless of their life stage or personal attributes. We are also supporting women through our products and services to help ensure they can achieve a balance between their family and professional lives. Material Issues Building an Ethical Society and Improving Resource Sustainability together with Customers and Business Partners P.55 Consumer styles, which conventionally focused on product and service value or cost performance, have undergone a change as more and more consumers engage in ethical consumption that is considerate of people, society and the environment. We are working hard to help create a more ethical society together with our customers and business partners through our various products and services. Seven & i Holdings CSR Report 2014 20 Material Providing Social Infrastructure for an Aging Society and Declining Population Issues Seven & i Holdings is working to enhance the convenience of shopping while leveraging the unique aspects of its business and some 18,000-store network as a form of social infrastructure Approach to support consumers inconvenienced by shopping and to respond to changes taking place in society. These changes include Japan’ s decrease in population brought on by a declining birthrate and aging society, the advancement of women in society, and the declining number of retail stores, among others. We recognize that fulfilling these diverse needs of our customers is one of our most important and unwavering roles in society. We will continue to tackle these issues as one of our most importance issues. Background Shopping and other services are Number of Seniors Living Alone becoming more inconvenient due to （Persons） The number of seniors living the hollowing out of lifestyle hubs 8,000,000 alone will increase 1.5 times from an aging society and declining 7,000,000 population 6,000,000 Japan is witnessing an aging society and declin5,000,000 ing population. By the year 2060, the country’ s 0 population will dip below 90 million and nearly 2010 2015 2020 2025 2030 （Year） 40% of its population will be seniors*. The Statistics from the National Institute of Population and Social Security Research number of seniors living alone continues to increase with each passing year, with the current Stores/Outlets Serving as Social Infrastructure number expected to rise 1.5-fold by 2030. （Stores） Declining number This trend has resulted in a hollowing out of life50,000 of lifestyle hubs style hubs caused by a declining population, which 40,000 stands as one of Japan’ s major social issues. Fore30,000 casts suggest that the number of seniors living 20,000 alone without walkable access to a supermarket 10,000 with fresh produce and meat will double by the 0 year 2030. 1989 92 97 2002 07 12（year） ■Bookstores ■Financial institutions ■Police boxes and substations *Source: F  Y2013 Population Estimates , Statistics Bureau, Ministry of Source: 2  012 Economic Census for Business Activity, Internal Affairs and Communications Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry 21 Seven & i Holdings CSR Report 2014 Seven & i Holdings’Omni-Channel Strategy The entire Seven & i Group, led by Seven & i Holdings, is focusing on Omni-Channel Retailing in which we are offering our nearly three million product lineup seamlessly through some 18,000 physical stores and online to enable consumers to shop for whatever they want anywhere and anytime. Sales floor Products Customer service By breaking down boundWe will develop even We will further enhance aries between businesses more appealing and valcustomer satisfaction by and seamlessly combining ue-added products with a refining our customer our real and virtual presfocus on the keywords service techniques not ence, we will ensure our “ new, ” “ delicious ”and only in our real stores, but products can be pur“ superior quality,”by levonline as well. chased using a method eraging the strengths of that best suits each indithe Seven & i Group. vidual customer. Seven & i Holdings’Initiatives Expanding Services Providing Services Reducing as a form of Social to a Wide Range of Shopping Support Housework Infrastructure Customers Offer product deliveries Develop products for Provide public services Offer shopping support and mobile sales for consumers that feel to offset the decline in so that all customers, consumers inconveninconvenienced by or service outlets including seniors and ienced by shopping have difficulty preparpeople with disabilities, ing meals can shop with ease and peace of mind Value for Value for society Seven & i Holdings Support senior lifestyles Create future customers from aging society and the Provide new lifestyle hubs hollowing out of lifestyle hubs Seven & i Holdings CSR Report 2014 22 Activities Conducted during the Year 1 Providing Social Infrastructure for an Aging Society and Declining Shopping Support Seven-Eleven’ s product pick-up service Online supermarkets Seven & i Holdings understands that some customIto-Yokado launched its online supermarket serers may feel uneasy about receiving an online order vices in 2001. Using this service, consumers can at their home or may get home too late to have an order groceries on their computer or mobile phone order delivered. This is why Seven Net Shopping and have their order delivered at the time of their allows online customers to pick-up and pay for an choosing. Prices for fresh produce and other items order* at their nearest Seven-Eleven store at a time are exactly the same as those offered in store, and that suits their schedule. orders can be received in as little as four hours. We also plan on steadily expanding our lineup of As of February 2014, online supermarket services products to meet the needs of even more customwere offered at 144 Ito-Yokado stores in 24 prefecers going forward. tures across Japan, and there were some 1.6 mil*Includes books, CDs, DVDs as well as certain products from the lion members. Starting in November 2013, we Sogo & Seibu e-department store, Akachan Honpo online store and began accepting orders for second-class OTC drugs Tower Records online, among other outlets. through this service and by the end of February 2014 we had increased the number of stores carrying second-class OTC drugs to 104. Customer questions about quasi-drug products are answered in a safe, reliable and convenient manner by our in-store pharmacists and registered sales staff. Additionally, York Mart is currently examining a new online supermarket model that it hopes to launch sometime after FY 2016. Net Sales and Membership for Ito-Yokado’ s Online Supermarket （billion yen）  （Thousand persons） 50 2,500 45.0 40 40.0 2,000 35.0 1,600 30 30.0 1,450 1,500 1,160 20 21.0 1,000 860 13.2 580 10 500 330 0 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 （FY） ■Net sales (left) ●Members (right) Online customers can pick up an order at their nearest Seven-Eleven store whenever they want Sales floor staff collecting fresh produce to fulfill an online order 23 Seven & i Holdings CSR Report 2014 Population Delivering products from stores Supporting shopping with mobile store sales Seven-Eleven Japan offers the Seven RakuRaku Delivery service, which provides home delivery for Seven-Eleven Japan launched the Seven Anshin nearly every product sold in our stores. Orders can Delivery mobile store service in Ibaraki Prefecture in be placed in person or in an advance by telephone. May 2011. This service utilizes proprietarily develAs of the end of February 2014, the service operoped light trucks equipped with store facilities, ated a fleet of some 800 ultra-small electric vehiwhich go to areas that are inconvenient for daily cles, which it plans on expanding to around 1,000 shopping and where many residents are seniors by 2015. Seven-Eleven Japan is also moving forwho have trouble securing means of transportation. ward with the introduction of power assisted bicyCustomers are able to purchase a range of foods cles and as of the end of February 2014 it was and beverages, including frozen foods, using this already using 1,200. Plans call for this number to be service. increased to over 3,000 by 2015. The Seven Anshin Delivery service was offered by 35 stores in 16 prefectures nationwide as of March 31, 2014. Plans call for this service to be expanded further in the future to fulfill the needs of customers. Power assisted bicycle and the ultra-small EV known as COMS Sales calls to assisted living facilities Ito-Yokado has offered the Fureai Shopping service since March 2014. This service entails sales calls on A truck used for the Seven-Eleven mobile store assisted living facilities to help seniors in need of service (The Seven Anshin Delivery service) care or other assistance enjoy the fun of shopping again. Ito-Yokado also provides the Ito-Yokado Anshin During these sales calls, a mini Ito-Yokado store is Delivery mobile store service in Nagano Prefecture, set up in the cafeteria or meeting hall of the facility Sapporo City, Tama City, Hanamaki City and Iwaki at the request of the operator or care staff who City. This service also uses proprietarily developed residents to be able to enjoy the fun of shopping trucks equipped with store facilities to visit comagain by having the chance to see products and munities that do not have easy access to stores for buy the things they want. This mini Ito-Yokado store daily shopping or that have a large population of offers a selection of requested products that are seniors who have trouble getting to stores. the same as those offered in store, excluding fresh meat and produce, alcohol and cigarettes. In FY 2013, around 80 Ito-Yokado stores offered the Fureai Shopping service. Truck used for the Ito-Yokado mobile store service (The Ito-Yokado Anshin Delivery mobile store service) The Fureai Shopping service Seven & i Holdings CSR Report 2014 24 Activities Conducted during the Year 1 Providing Social Infrastructure for an Aging Society and Declining Reducing Housework Expanding Services as a Form of Social Infrastructure Developing products and services that Government services make meal preparation easy (Issuance of various certificates) Seven & i Holdings, given Japan’ s aging society and Seven-Eleven Japan is able to issue copies of resithe advancement of women in society, is developdence certificates and seal registration certificates ing individual meal, small volume and simple produsing in-store multi-functional copier machines. As ucts to respond to consumer demand for saving of the end of February 2014 agreements for this time and reducing the hassle of housework. service were in place with 81 municipalities. This For example, Seven-Eleven Japan provides the service is currently being expanded, as family regisSeven-Meal home delivery service at some 13,000 ter certificates can now be issued for 31 municipaliof its stores. Through this service, consumers who ties and tax certificates for 30. feel inconvenienced by daily meal preparation or Residents can use this service including at night and who want to eat a more healthy diet can have nutrion holidays by simply holding their basic resident tiously balanced meals delivered to their home. registration card over the copier. Personal informaDaily meals are prepared by registered dieticians tion is protected securely by a dedicated network and include more than 15 different ingredients and and advanced security system, while the copier’ s over 120g of vegetables. Meals are ordered by a special printing function prevents forging and wide range of customers, from seniors to housetampering. wives and even office workers for lunch. This service is also offered at Ito-Yokado’ s Kiba, Omori, Ario Kamiari, and Ario Washimiya stores as well as Sogo & Seibu’ s Seibu Ikebukuro department store. Insurance enrollment and premium payment service In 1990, Seven-Eleven Japan became the first in the industry to offer motorcycle insurance enrollment and insurance premium payment services as part of its commitment to eliminate uninsured accidents. The Seven-Meal delivery service in action Consumers can enroll in insurance 24 hours a day simply by entering the necessary personal information on the multi-functional copier machine screen Seven-Eleven Japan’ s private brand Seven Premium in store and paying their premium at the register. is also developing products that are easy to preSeven-Eleven Japan began offering a bicycle insurpare and reduce the hassle of housework to meet ance enrollment service in 2011. the needs of consumers. These products include a menu of prepared foods that are ready to eat or simply need to be heated up and also frozen foods conveniently prepared in the microwave. Screen shot of a Seven-Eleven multifunctional copier Seven Premium’ s prepared food lineup of quick and easy foods that are ready to eat 25 Seven & i Holdings CSR Report 2014 Population Providing Services to a Wide Range of Customers Voice guidance-operated ATM machines Shopping support for people with disabilities Seven Bank offers voice guidance services for people with visual disabilities who cannot operate touch Seven & i Holdings develops its stores with universcreens. This service enables customers to operate sal design concept to ensure that all customers, an ATM machine to make a deposit, withdrawal, or including seniors and people with disabilities, can make a balance inquiry by following voice guidance shop with peace of mind. emitted from the ATM. Customers with the cash Ito-Yokado is also steadily rolling out universal cards of partner financial institutions* can also use design concepts for new store openings and when this service. This voice guidance system was develremodeling existing stores. These design consideroped after soliciting feedback from people with ations in include multipurpose bathrooms and spevisual disabilities and testing various solutions. cial parking spaces for wheel-chair users. Store tours are also held prior to the opening of new *Banks, credit unions, credit cooperatives, labour banks, JA banks, JF Marine banks, and securities companies that are partners with stores to solicit and utilize customer feedback in Seven Bank. This service is not offered for insurance companies or store designs. credit card companies, even if they are a partner of Seven Bank. Multi-purpose bathroom with voice guidance Offered for some 540 partner financial institutions (as of February 28, 2014) Ito-Yokado also holds basic sign language classes for new store openings and at group training for new employees in order to enhance its customer Marketing products that support services for customers with a hearing disability. senior lifestyles Sogo & Seibu encourages employees to obtain Heartful Advisor* certification from the Foundation Ito-Yokado runs the Anshin Support Shop that carfor Total Health Promotion. ries a full lineup of apparel, daily essentials, and foods, including products that support the health *A certification program targeting customer services for seniors and people with disabilities and lifestyles of seniors and care products (107 stores as of July 31, 2014) Some 40% of the products sold at these shops are originally designed and developed based on customer requests. Ito-Yokado also provides in-depth customer services in which its staff listens to the customer ’ s needs and recommends the best products. Sign language class Seven & i Holdings CSR Report 2014 26 Material Providing Safety and Reliability through Products and Stores Issues The Seven & i Holdings Group handles approximately 3 million products, and also develops various products as private brand products. For this reason, we prioritize the safety and reliApproach ability of products more than anything else. In addition, we recognize the importance of our Group’ s role in providing social infrastructure that can be used at any time, even during disasters and other emergencies. Background Food safety Concerns during earthquakes and disasters With the globalization of food and the occurrence of There have been frequent floods caused by several incidents and accidents that have threatheavy rains in recent years, perhaps due in part ened the safety and reliability of food in recent to the impact of climate change. In addition, years, interest towards food safety has grown involvthere have been many natural disasters, including topics such as the management of raw materials, ing large-scale earthquakes that occur as a result food additives, and agrochemical residues. This is of Japan’ s geography. Because many people particularly evident in a survey by the Consumer suffer damages when disasters occur in Japan, Affairs Agency in which approximately 70% of much importance is placed on the role of social respondents answered that they cared about the infrastructure such as the provision of products production area when purchasing products, reflectand services required for living when large-scale ing the fact that companies are being called on to disaster occur, and business continuity is further strengthen quality management systems. required as a safe and secure infrastructure base. When you usually buy food, do you care What are you concerned about when an earthquake where your food is produced? or disaster occurs? (Multiple answers) People that cared about Securing food Securing daily 100 7.8% 0.4% the production area when necessities 26.9% purchasing products 93.4% 85.1% 72.3％ 80.1% 19.6% 71.6% 70.7% 50 68.4% 60.0% ● I care about this ● I somewhat care about this 0 ● I don’t really care about this Safety of Securing lifelines Securing Breakdown of Home Occurrence Securing daily 45.4% ● I don’t care about this my family including water food communication, destruction of ﬁre necessities and electricity not being able to or damage ● I don’t know contact people “ Survey of Consumer Awareness Towards Food Safety”(2011), the “Questionnaire on Disasters”(August 2011), Meiji Yasuda Life Insurance Consumer Affairs Agency Company 27 Seven & i Holdings CSR Report 2014 Seven & i Holdings’Policies Seven & i Holdings will pursue safety, reliability, innovation, and high quality so that it can provide rich and healthy living to customers, and each Group company will work together to continue to provide products and services that will satisfy customers. Basic Policies Improve customer satisfaction Provide safe products and Provide appropriate information services We will develop and provide products We will work to provide safe products We will comply with laws, regulations, and services from the customer’ s point of and services that customers can feel and rules related to products and services view and work to improve quality to secure using from the customer’ s point of and we will endeavor to provide necesensure customer satisfaction. view. sary information in an appropriate and easy-to-understand manner from the customer’ s point of view. From the Quality Policy Seven & i Holdings’Initiatives Establishment of Inspection of Temperature Food Management Quality Management Food Traceability Radioactive Management in in Stores Systems Substances Distribution Adopt international Actively disclose Conduct independent Adopt cold chain Have all employees management system product traceability inspections and checks distribution (low conduct confirmation standards and maninformation (distributo complement the temperature distribuof product freshness agement techniques tion history) as an monitoring surveys on tion network) to and expiration of best concerning quality initiative that empharadioactive substances procure high-quality before dates and and hygiene in order sizes the safety and implemented by the and fresh raw matericonsume by dates. to provide safe and reliability of products in government following als for foods. reliable products to all processes from the the Great East Japan customers. procurement of raw Earthquake. materials to sales. Appropriate Disclosure Provision of Safety Reconstruction Consideration to Support of Crime of Information on and Security when Assistance for the Great Health Prevention Products and Services Disasters Occur East Japan Earthquake Actively promote the Display whether Strengthen crime Implement various Support companies sales of products with products contain prevention measures initiatives such as the and producers in reduced use of food allergens so that according to the establishing a fuel disaster-affected areas additives and products people with allergies business characterisstorage station for by selling their prodthat take into considcan feel confident tics of each company delivering emergency ucts in our stores. eration health conselecting products. so that customers can supplies in order to cerns and food feel safe and secure fulfill the function of allergies. using facilities. social infrastructure in the event of a disaster. Value for Value for society Seven & i Holdings Improving safety and reliability Strengthening of food and other products relationships based on trusts with customers and other stakeholders Life support during disasters Seven & i Holdings CSR Report 2014 28 Activities Conducted during the Year 1 Providing Safety and Reliability through Products and Stores Establishment of Quality Management Systems Acquisition of JGAP certification Adoption of the NDF-HACCP certifiFor our private brand Fruits and Vegetables with cation system Traceability (see page 30) at Ito-Yokado, we endeavor to acquire JGAP (Japan Good Agricultural Seven-Eleven has adopted the HACCP (Hazard Practice) certification in order to further improve Analysis and Critical Control Point) method since the level of our quality management. 1997 as a method to manage food hygiene. In addiJGAP standards that should be implemented in tion, the NDF-HACCP Certification System for day-to-day agricultural management are stipulated review and certification of the quality control status in an aim to improve safety and protect the environof dedicated plants has been adopted since 2002. ment based on the agricultural production manageUnder this system, compliance with approximately ment procedure that the Ministry of Agriculture, 140 safety standards set based on HACCP is Forestry and Fisheries recommends for adoption. checked, and high-quality plants recognized to be Certification has been acquired for 15 localities as above a certain level are certified. A third party is of the end of February 2014, and efforts will be commissioned with the inspection, and the results made for further certification going forward. are inspected and certified by the Nihon Delica In the same manner at Seven Farms (see page 43), Foods Association (NDF)*. Inspections are also JGAP certification was acquired at farms and sites conducted after certification is acquired in order to in Tomisato, Tsukuba, and Hokkaido in 2009, and maintain the management level. we aim to acquire this certification for all sites going By focusing on quality management based on the forward. NDF-HACCP Certification System, we have strengthened mechanisms for preventing the shipHygiene management based on ment of defective products and improved the maintenance and inspection of facilities and ISO9001 equipment. At Seven & i Food Systems, the QC Office that serves as the hygiene management division has *Nihon Delica Foods Association (NDF):The NDF was formed in acquired the ISO9001 international standard con1979 mainly by vendors of rice-based products in order to improve hygiene quality management levels at deli product manufacturing cerning quality management (application scope facilities and to eliminate region-based quality differences. consisting of food hygiene management system standards and provision at stores). Utilizing this system, efforts are made to improve hygiene management at stores and educate employees. Changes in the numbers of certified plants In hygiene management, an emphasis is put on (under the NDF-HACCP Certification System) easy-to-understand freshness management that （Number of plants） can be implemented by anyone. Store managers 150 137 143 139 144 and procurement staff member check the status of 119 stock and orders every day, and the number of 100 meals in stock and expiration date are checked when placing orders for meals. In addition, random 50 checks are also conducted by a third-party hygiene inspection agency. Furthermore, thorough instructions on hygiene 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 （FY） management are mainly provided by store managers and procurement staff members that are responsible for food sanitation in order to educate store employees. Moreover, efforts are made to increase awareness towards freshness and hygiene management and improve the level of hygiene management through regular store checks by district leaders and thorough self-checks by each and every employee. 29 Seven & i Holdings CSR Report 2014 Quality improvement initiatives with Food Traceability business partners Foods with traceability, products with At Seven & I Holdings, the Group development divitraceability sions and other divisions hold regular meetings with the business partners of Seven-Eleven and ItoIto-Yokado offers products under its private brand Yokado in order to confirm current quality manageFoods with Traceability, which communicates to ment issues and problems and in an effort to share customers that we have an accurate understanding information aimed at improvement. of production sites, production methods, and distribution channels. It possible to confirm producer information for Foods with Traceability products Meetings held with business partners using the Ito-Yokado website and mobile phones or (FY 2013 cumulative total) smartphones. The products have been audited by a Number of Number of third-party organization in accordance with Itoparticipating business partners participants Yokado’ s proprietary safety standards. 183 312 As of the end of February 2014, 222 items are Seven & i Holdings companies participants handled under the Foods with Traceability brand, 767 5,683 covering all fresh foods including vegetables, fruits, Seven-Eleven Japan companies participants meat, eggs, and fish. 714 1,014 Ito-Yokado companies participants http://look.itoyokado.co.jp/kao/top.php In recognition of Ito-Yokado’ s efforts in product Ito-Yokado producer information safety that are described below, the company has disclosure method Information disclosed received a Minister Prize of Economic, Trade and on the website Industry in the large retailer sales business division following a similar achievement in 2011, winning For detailed producer the Best Contributors to Product information... Safety Award for the seventh contest sponsored by the Minis2013 try of Economy, Trade and IndusBest Contributors to Information also available Product Safety Award try in FY2013. from mobile phones and smartphones ・Formulation of proprietary quality standards and sharing these standards with Group companies and business partners ・S trengthening of plant audits using third-party certification organizations ・Prompt development of cooperative structures for recalls by business partners At York-Benimaru, we have established a YorkBenimaru Products with Traceability corner on our website that distributes information on fresh foods that have been carefully selected including the production site, characteristics, production process, and producer. Customers can see a product’ s production records by entering the production number on the seal attached to the product. Approximately 30 products are handled as of the end of February 2014. Ito-Yokado quality improvement proposal meeting http://www.yorkbeni.co.jp/trace/index.html Seven & i Holdings CSR Report 2014 30 Activities Conducted during the Year 2 Providing Safety and Reliability through Products and Stores Centralized management of produccultivation work and the implementation timing. tion records Furthermore, production sites procured from may be changed depending on season and harvest conAt Seven-Eleven, each deli product menu such as ditions after confirming quality and other matters in rice and side dishes uses an average of 40 types of order to provide safe and delicious vegetables. raw materials (including seasonings). In order to Note that production site information for the main manage these individual products and clarify how menu ingredients at Denny’ s is available on the much of what raw material was used at what plant, website. we manage all information for over 300 business http://www.dennys.jp/dny/approach/ partners and approximately 170 dedicated plants in a database and link this with store point-of-sales data so that it is possible to confirm the flow of Inspection of Radioactive Substances products from the raw materials production site to the storefront. Thanks to this system it is possible to Independent inspections and respond immediately if problems involving raw announcement of inspection results materials or other issues are discovered. In addition, because it is possible to get an accurate The Radioactivity Project was established as an understanding of the amount of raw materials and internal organization at York-Benimaru to enable packaging used at each plant, this system is helpful customers to feel reassured while shopping followin reducing wastes through means such as controling the Great East Japan Earthquake. We conduct ling excessive production. independent inspections and checks to compleIn addition, we voluntarily conduct DNA testing on ment the monitoring surveys on radioactive subrice to prevent the mixing of breed and inspections stances implemented by the government, and then for radioactive substances. announce these inspection results. For example, in the case of three-star fruits and Production information management vegetables, we endeavor to sell products that meet the criteria by having buyers visit production sites for fruit and vegetables and conduct soil inspections and independent At Seven & i Food Systems, we request that all inspections on samples. production sites nationwide submit cultivation plan http://www.yorkbeni.co.jp/radioactivity/index.html documents and cultivation results documents that state information including the details of food Seven-Eleven’ s raw materials production records management framework Check records from Check records from Check records from raw materials sales area products Raw materials Recipe master Information Logistics management data Information management data (Menu recipe management data) Data such as the country of Data such as raw materials for Data on raw materials used in origin, plant, and additives for each area, usage amount, and products each raw material period of use 31 Seven & i Holdings CSR Report 2014 Temperature Management in Distribution Food Management in Stores Cold chain distribution (low temperaManagement of product freshness ture distribution network) At Ito-Yokado there are specialists called Freshness At Seven-Eleven, we have adopted cold chain distriCheckers under the direct supervision of store bution (low temperature distribution network) managers that specialize in food freshness. These since 2005 to procure high-quality and fresh raw specialists conduct checks on the deterioration of materials for foods. Unheated vegetables that are vegetables, the expiration of best before dates and used in products including salads and sandwiches consume by dates for products and raw materials, are stored at low temperature on the spot after and the temperature of sales floor and backroom being harvested in fields, and quality degradation is refrigerators by time period. prevented through low-temperature transport so In addition, for deli products including processed that the freshness of vegetables can be maintained foods such as dried fish, milk, and tofu other than for a long period of time. For products such as onifresh foods (fruit and vegetables, meat, fish, and giri rice balls, efforts are made to minimize product side dishes), all store employees check product degradation by keeping not only production plants dates to ensure that products are not sold past and joint distribution centers constantly at 20 ° C, their best before dates and consume by dates. but also keeping areas inside transport trucks at The same activities are conducted by organizations this temperature. called the Freshness Patrol Committee at YorkAt Seven & i Food Systems’Deny’ s, foods are Benimaru and the Compliance Team at York-Mart. stored at the three temperature ranges of room temperature, refrigerated, or frozen depending on the characteristics of the foods to secure the freshness and safety of foods through centralized temperature management from harvest to refrigerators at stores. Ito-Yokado Freshness Checker Seven-Eleven’ s cold chain General transport method Suitable Seven-Eleven temperature Production site Chilled vehicle, Chilled Chilled refrigerator vehicle vehicle vehicle Production Low temperature Production Stores site processing center plant Storage at low temperature Processing into sandwiches, salads, after harvest Separated by plant etc. Seven & i Holdings CSR Report 2014 32 Activities Conducted during the Year 2 Providing Safety and Reliability through Products and Stores Consideration to Health Products that take food allergies into consideration Reducing the use of food additives To allow children and other people with food At Seven & i Holdings we endeavor to reduce the allergy concerns to feel safe eating cake, Itouse of food additives. Yokado conducts reservation sales of rice flower At Seven-Eleven, we have eliminated synthetic coland soy milk cream cakes for Christmas and birthoring and preservatives from original deli products. days that do not use designated raw materials. In In addition, we have eliminated synthetic coloring addition, three cupcake items for deserts are sold and preservatives from side dishes, boxed meals, every day (70 stores as of the end of May 2014, in and sushi at Ito-Yokado. some cases only some items are available). For Furthermore, since 2007 we have eliminated phosthese products, all raw materials and components phate that is said to inhibit the absorption of calare managed by lot and inspections are conducted cium if intake is excessive from ham and sausages by external agencies. that are used for original product sandwiches. At 87 stores (as of the end of May 2014) we have Since 2005 we have implemented independent established corners handling products that take measures in conjunction with raw material manufood allergies into consideration on the food sales facturers to reduce trans-fatty acid that is said to floor, where seasonings and foods from food manuincrease the risk of heart disease. facturers that take food allergies into consideration In addition, we have disclosed the amount of satuare offered. rated fatty acid, trans fatty acid, and cholesterol At Seven & i Food Systems’Deny’ s, we have develcontained in some of our main product on our oped and sold on an ongoing basis a low-allergen website since May 2011 based on the Guidelines menu for kids that takes food allergies into considon Trans Fatty Acid Labeling (Consumer Affairs eration. Foods used for this menu are stored sepaAgency). rately from foods for the regular menu and are http://www.sej.co.jp/products/safety01.html processed at food plants using separately managed cooking utensils and containers to ensure that there is no mixing with foods for the regular menu. Products that take health into In addition, heating and plate arrangement at resconsideration taurants is conducted by a staff member separate from the standard cooking line, and tableware that Ito-Yokado has launched the Euglena Health Comis individually washed and stored is used in an mittee together with Euglena Corporation to jointly effort to prevent secondary contamination by allerdevelop with eight food manufacturers products gens. In recognition of these efforts, at the 7th Kids composed of a type of microalgae called euglena Design Awards sponsored by the Kids Design Assothat is produced and sold by Euglena Corporation. ciation (a Cabinet Office certified NPO) held in For the first time in Japan, euglena food corners 2013, a low-allergen menu that does not use desigwere established in 165 Ito-Yokado stores from nated raw materials won a Kids Design Award in April 2014. Euglena has features of both plants and the category of designs to contribute to the safety animals and contains 59 varieties of nutrients, and and security from children’ s viewpoints. therefore it can be used as a supplement to provide nutrients that are often lacking in the modern diet. *Some items are no longer sold. 33 Seven & i Holdings CSR Report 2014 Appropriate Disclosure of Information on Products and Services Support of Crime Prevention Allergy information labeling Safety station activities At Seven & i Holdings, we endeavor to use labels for Seven-Eleven stores are open 365 days a year and both products purchased from business partners even late at night the lights stay on and there are and products prepared at stores so that it is easy employees inside the store. Leveraging these busifor customers to understand what allergens are ness characteristics, we are actively implementing included in which product to enable people with Safety Station activities based on the themes of allergies to feel secure when selecting products. creating safe and secure communities and creating For products prepared at Seven-Eleven (hot snacks, healthy and sound youth envioden, and Chinese steamed buns) and Denny’ s ronments as a member of the menu items, information on the use of designated local community. At product raw materials and products equivalent to desigexhibitions that are held across nated raw materials is disclosed on our website. the country, we work to dishttp://www.sej.co.jp/products/index.html seminate information on meahttp://www.dennys-jp.com/allergy.html sures to prevent underage drinking and smoking. Product labeling education for employees Safe ATM transactions At Seven & i Holdings, joint training on the Act At Seven Bank, security measures have been against Unjustifiable Premiums and Misleading strengthened through measures such as the instalRepresentations is conducted twice a year for new lation of recording cameras that allow people to purchasing staff members at each Group company. safely and securely use cash withdrawal and transDuring FY 2013 a total of 131 employees received fer services and the installation of devices that training on misleading representations and the detect suspicious objects attached to ATMs. provision of unjustifiable premiums as prohibited So that the customers don’ t become the victims of under this law. bank transfer scams, we provide reminders to customers through screen displays and audio announcements when making transfers at ATMs. Establishment of ambiguous labeling Furthermore, to prevent ATMs from being used in independent guidelines crimes, we plan to expand IC card support that has been adopted for domestic bank transaction for In order to avoid representations that could cause transactions with cards issued overseas. misunderstandings among customers, Seven & i For accounts at Seven Bank, we work to prevent Holdings created the Group-wide Ambiguous Labelthe use of accounts for illegal purposes through ing Independent Guidelines in September 2012 thorough confirmation of personal identification covering ambiguous labeling not within the scope of when accounts are opened. In response to money the JAS Act and Food Sanitation Act. laundering, we conduct filtering of people who Subsequently, these independent guidelines were have been involved with financial crimes in the past fully revised in accordance with the Principles of and people that are not able to use accounts. We Food Labeling in Menus and Dishes under the Act have adopted an account monitoring system that against Unjustifiable Premiums and Misleading Repdetects suspicious transactions after accounts have resentations released by the Consumer Affairs been opened and we have also strengthened meaAgency in March 2014. sures against phishing scams. Seven & i Holdings CSR Report 2014 34 Activities Conducted during the Year 2 Providing Safety and Reliability through Products and Stores Provision of Safety and Security when Disasters Occur Adoption of a disaster response map system Prompt community rescue activities during disasters and community education At Seven & i Holdings, we have adopted a disaster response map system that displays information Seven & i Holdings promotes the conclusion of such as the damage to each Group company store disaster support agreements with municipalities in and the extent of the impact in the event of a largepreparation for prompt community rescue activities scale earthquake on a map displayed on a PC during disasters. In addition to providing services screen. This system makes it possible to centrally including tap water, toilets, and disaster informamanage information such as the magnitude of tion, we also cooperate with the procurement of earthquakes affecting food and daily necessities. We also work to raise stores, the status of lifethe awareness of customers towards disasters lines in disaster-affected through measures such as the establishment of areas, and the status of disaster response corners in stores. means of transportation, which in turn enables us Number of disaster support agreements with to provide more prompt municipalities concluded by each company store support. Seismic information display （August 31, 2014） Seven-Eleven Japan 95 municipalities Use of TV conference system in the Ito-Yokado 87 municipalities event of a large-scale disaster York-Benimaru 26 municipalities At Seven-Eleven Japan, we conducted large-scale York-Mart 3 municipalities disaster simulation training using the TV conference Sogo & Seibu 4 municipalities system in March 2013 in an effort to ensure that we Seven & i Food Systems 17 municipalities would be able to continue operating stores in the event of a disaster. We confirmed the safety of all Fuel storage station for delivering approximately 6,500 employees using mobile phones emergency supplies and connected four areas assumed to be a disaster area with the headquarters in Tokyo and conducted At Seven & i Holdings, we consider securing a fuel simulated reporting on matters including whether supply network to be a very important issue in there were any injuries, whether there were power response to the serious fuel shortage in the area failures, and the status of nearby Seven-Eleven stores. affected by the Great East Japan Earthquake and the This system can be used to communicate simultaneTokyo metropolitan area. For this reason, we became ously with business locations in up to twenty areas. the first retailer in Japan to establish a fuel storage station for use in product delivery vehicles, establishSecuring networks in the event of a ing this station in May 2014 on the premises of the disaster Ito-Yokado distribution center in Saitama Prefecture. As 400 kl of fuel is stored at this station at all times, At Seven-Eleven Japan, we have established a wirethe station makes it possible to send emergency supless network that allows the headquarters, delivery plies and goods promptly and reliably for approxicompanies, joint distribution centers, and all delivmately ten days to evacuation centers in disaster ery vehicles to mutually communicate with each areas as well as our Group companies’stores in the other in the event of a disaster. The contact netTokyo Metropolis Prefecture, Kanagawa Prefecture, work for disasters using wireless networks has Saitama Prefecture, and Chiba Prefecture. been developed by each Group company. In addition, Seven-Eleven has installed NTT East emergency telephones (special public telephones) that are free to use during disasters and other emergencies in Seven-Eleven stores (approximately 1,200 stores) in the 23 special wards of Tokyo. In addition, the wireless LAN service Seven Spot provided as a means of communication for safety confirmation when it is not possible to communicate using mobile phones or for people that are not able to return home has been installed for 14,638 Fuel reserve base stores as of February 2014. 35 Seven & i Holdings CSR Report 2014 Reconstruction Assistance for the Great East Japan Earthquake Support taking advantage of specialized knowledge and sales know-how Tohoku Kakehashi project Sogo & Seibu has been supporting the economic Seven & i Holdings has been implementing the independence of women from Iitate Village, FukuTohoku Kakehashi Project since November 2011, shima Prefecture who have been forced to leave in cooperation with Fukushima, Miyagi, Iwate, and their home village and live in temporary houses. To other prefectures in Tohoku, and in collaboration support the sales of madei-gi* and accessories that with companies and major manufacturers in areas have been remade by these women using tradiaffected by the Great East Japan Earthquake. In tional Japanese techniques from kimono donated July 2014 (Phase 9), the project was expanded to kindly by people across Japan, we not only provide include 239 sponsoring and participating compathese women with a place to sell the goods along nies and 1,710 items. with the necessary display fixtures, but also coopIto-Yokado and the stores of other Group compaeration in making prior notifications about the fair nies* sell products from Tohoku and conduct and actually selling the goods. In addition, designevents together with the government, including ers belonging to the company’ s corporate cusevents that are participated in by the governors of tomer and business partners sponsoring these each prefecture. To ensure that people don’ t forget activities make visits to temporary houses to proabout the area affected by the recent disaster, vide designs and major campaigns are held two to three times per patterns as well as year to support the reconstruction of agriculture, technical guidance fisheries, and other businesses in Tohoku. on sewing. (A total of five sales fairs *The five companies of Ito-Yokado, York Benimaru, York-Mart, SHELL were held from GARDEN, and Seven & i Net Media March 2012 to March 2014.) Madei-mono sales fair *Madei is a word in the Fukushima dialect that means carefully or wholeheartedly. Volunteer support by employees The Tohoku Kakehashi Project reconstruction support project Seven & i Holdings participates in the Great East Japan Earthquake Reconstruction Project impleSupporting producers in disastermented by the NGO Seven-Eleven Memorial Foundation to continue providing reconstruction affected areas support in areas that have suffered serious damage. At Seven & i Food Systems, in March 2014 we proIn September 2013, 75 volunteers including Sevenvided meals at employee cafeterias operated by Eleven franchise owners, headquarters employees, the Group and launched sales of wakame and nori and Seven & i Holdings Group employees visited seaweed as products using foods from Shichigathe Karakuwa Sosei Mura in Karakuwa-cho, Kesenhama, Miyagi Prefecture that was affected by the numa-shi, Miyagi Prefecture to assist fishermen with Great East Japan Earthquake. daily duties required for oyster cultivation including As the second phase of these efforts, four Sogo & inserting seed oysters, inserting pins for oyster Seibu stores in the Tokyo metropolitan area sold a tanks, and preparing ropes for oyster cultivation. reconstruction support meal that included a relief donation using wakame and nori seaweed from Shichigahama, Miyagi Prefecture in May 2014. Inserting seed oysters Seven & i Holdings CSR Report 2014 36 Material Non-Wasteful Usage of Products, Ingredients and Energy Issues Focusing on the retail industry, Seven & i Holdings operates approximately 18,000 stores within Japan, and handles a great many products in doing so. Accordingly, within the context of Approach moving towards the realization of a sustainable society, reducing both energy-usage and wastegeneration through the Group’ s business activities represents a development of great impact. Meanwhile, due to reduced product and ingredient costs, and through linkages to energy-cost savings, such waste reductions also offer Seven & i Holdings significant value. Thus, the elimination of product, ingredient and energy waste represents an important material issues to which the company is now responding. Background Climate change Food waste Climate change is a global problem. Rising sea The volume of global food aid rose to a figure of 3.9 levels, erratic weather, and damage to primary million tons in 2011, and food shortages have industries, etc., pose serious threats to future become more apparent due to population growth generations. and weather patterns, it being felt that one in every An Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change eight people now endures a state of chronic starva(IPCC) report states that global warming is tion. By contrast, the annual disposal of food in “ beyond doubt” , and if current trends continue, Japan amounts to 17 million tons or more, and the worst case is that temperatures will rise by within this figure, food loss (food still edible such as almost 2° C by 2050, with CO2 emissions considleftovers and that which is beyond its use-by date, ered to be the major cause. etc.), accounts for some five to eight million tons. Predicted increases in Volume of global food aid & global temperatures Temperatures will rise by annual Japanese food loss Vast food loss 2°C or more in the worst （ ℃） case scenario 3.0 Volume of food loss global food aid in Japan 2.0 1.0 0 2011 Annually 3.9 million tons 5 to 8 million tons 1950 2000 2050（Year） Taken from the IPPC Fifth Assessment Report on the Japan Center for Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries: Working to Reduce Food Climate Change Actions website (http://www.jccca.org/) Loss 37 Seven & i Holdings CSR Report 2014 Seven & i Holdings Policy We believe the most pressing problem facing all people around the world is how to preserve the environment and pass on an abundant and beautiful natural world to the next generation. Our mission is to contribute to the solution of this problem. To achieve harmony between the environment and our business activities, we will work together with our customers, local communities, and business partners throughout the entire supply chain, from product development and manufacturing to distribution and sales. We will strive to be a leader in the global retail industry not only in product safety and security but also in measures to alleviate environmental problems, and pursue initiatives on a Group-wide basis. We consider the prevention of global warming to be the largest and most serious challenge facing the world. We are aggressively pushing forward measures to contribute to the achievement of low-carbon societies by reducing emissions of carbon dioxide, the primary cause of global warming. We endeavor to provide environmental education for all employees in the Group, to ensure that each employee is aware of the Company’ s social responsibilities as a good corporate citizen, and to exist in harmony with the environment and our local communities. From the viewpoint of sincerity and transparency, we disclose all information relating to these initiatives accurately, reliably, and promptly. From our Environmental Declaration Seven & i Holdings’Initiatives Attaining an Appropriate Grasp Reducing CO2 Emissions at Reducing CO2 Emissions from of Environmental Impact Stores Logistics Operations Establish CO2 emissions reduction Because approximately 90% of Group Due to the necessity of controlling CO2 targets, and for the purpose of assessCO2 emissions result from the energy emissions from the vehicles representing and verifying initiatives to reduce used to power equipment vital to ing the heart of logistics, we are proenvironmental impact, have CO2 store operations, energy-saving equipmoting a range of measures that emissions audited by third parties. ment introduction is being promoted. include the introduction of eco-friendly vehicles, etc. Promoting Food Recycling Reducing Packaging Materials, etc. In that at approximately 60%, food accounts for a high Concerning packaging materials used when presenting percentage of sales, we have established“ improving food products, we are reducing waste volumes by promoting recycling rates”as an important theme and are promoting package simplification, etc. initiatives. Value for Value for society Seven & i Holdings Reduced waste Reduced product loss Reduced CO2 emissions Reduced energy costs Seven & i Holdings CSR Report 2014 38 Activities Conducted during the Year 3 Non-Wasteful Usage of Products, Ingredients and Energy Attaining an Appropriate Grasp of Environmental Impact ISO14001 certification Setting CO2 emission-reduction Seven & i Holdings is promoting ISO14001 acquisitargets tion to strengthen its environmental management systems. Seven & i Holdings has established“ CO2 emissions Sogo & Seibu was the first department store chain reduction targets”for the purpose of preventing to acquire ISO14001 certification in 1999, and all global warming. By the introduction of the latest its stores continue to operate accordingly. energy-saving equipment and renewable energies, Furthermore, Seven-Eleven Japan acquired etc., whereby the same level of response as the ISO14001certification at the end of February 2014 FY2011 environmental measures of the nine Japafor its headquarters as well as for its offices and nese domestic operating companies＊1 occurs, the directly-operated stores in Tokyo. By this acquisiaim is for the predicted CO2 emissions of FY2017 to tion, the relevant divisions are working to reduce be reduced by approximately 10%. environmental impact through their business activities. CO2 emissions audits by third parties To correctly assess and verify the initiatives taken to reduce environmental impact, Seven & i Holdings has TOPICS undertaken third-party audits of its CO2 emissions from store operations since FY2011. This program Raising environmental awareness among initially targeted five companies in FY2011＊2, nine employees companies in FY2012＊1, and 10 companies in To raise employee environmental awareness, Seven FY2013 with the inclusion of 7-Eleven, Inc. Thus, the & i Holdings has conducted a campaign to allow range of companies targeted for audits is being employees to obtain“Eco Test” ＊ certification. expanded. Due to this expansion, the sales coverage This campaign involved employees who passed the of the companies targeted for audits has grown from Eco Test receiving a certain amount as a support an initial 72% to 96% of total Group sales. This subsidy. At the testing conducted in July 2014, development in turn is leading to more accurate figacross the Group 598 people sat the test and some ures and greater external trust of the company. 487 passed. (From the“Third-Party Verification Report”P78) ＊ The Certification Test for Environmental Specialists is conducted by the Tokyo Chamber of Commerce and Industry ＊1 T argeted Companies: Seven-Eleven Japan, Ito-Yokado, Sogo & The official name is the CertifiSeibu, York-Benimaru, Seven & i Food Systems, York Mart, cation Test for Environmental Akachan Honpo, THE LOFT and SHELL GARDEN (9 companies) Specialists ® ＊2 Targeted Companies: Seven-Eleven Japan, Ito-Yokado, Sogo & Seibu, York-Benimaru, Seven & i Food Systems (5 companies) CO2 emissions＊ CO2 emissions resulting (1,000 t-CO2) from store operations＊ 3,000 (1,000 t-CO2) Seven-Eleven Japan 1,585 3,000 Ito-Yokado 572 Seven-Eleven Japan 1,421 York-Benimaru 208 Ito-Yokado 546 2,000 Sogo & Seibu 198 Sogo & Seibu 197 Seven & i Food Systems 100 2,000 York-Benimaru 185 Seven & i Food Systems 98 York Mart 62 THE LOFT 22 1,000 York Mart 61 Akachan Honpo 20 SHELL GARDEN 6 THE LOFT 21 1,000 Akachan Honpo 20 SHELL GARDEN 6 0 2011 2012 2013 （FY） 0 ＊CO2 emissions from store operations plus CO2 emissions caused by 2011 2012 2013 （FY） the use of energy for logistics and headquarters activities. For calculation methods, please see the data posted on the website. ＊ For calculation methods, please see the data posted on the website. 39 Seven & i Holdings CSR Report 2014 Reducing CO2 Emissions at Stores Promoting the introduction of energysaving equipment At Seven & i Holdings, so that environmental impact does not grow in proportion to increases in store numbers and increases in store size, in line with the opening of new stores and the refurbishing of existing premises, we are promoting the introduction of Sales floor lighting energy-saving equipment such as LED lights and solar panels, etc. At Seven-Eleven Japan, LED lights have been Number of Seven-Eleven Japan stores employed since 2008 for store signboards, and equipped with LED devices starting in August 2009 some stores and refur（Stores） bished premises used LED lights for their sales floor 15,000 12,158 lighting. Since September 2011, the company has 13,429 established the use of LED lights as standard prac12,563 tice. Furthermore, the number of stores equipped 10,000 with solar panels has sequentially increased from 209 stores at the end of FY2011, to some 6,548 5,000 stores in FY2013. Additionally, since October 2009 the equipping of stores with energy-saving equip0 ment models such as air conditioning systems and 2010 2011 2012 2013 （FY） circulation ventilation systems, etc., has become ■Store signboards ■Sign poles ■Sales floor lighting standard practice. At Ito-Yokado, to reduce the environmental burden resulting from store operations, as of the end of February 2014 some 176 stores are using LED TOPICS lighting, while 13 stores have been equipped with solar panels. Opening stores made of wood Seven-Eleven Japan began opening stores made of wood in FY2009 because; compared to steel-framed stores, less CO2 emissions are generated during the procurement and construction phases. Furthermore, such stores generate less construction waste when demolished. In building such stores, in that it offers strength in cold regions as well, wooden-frame Electricity usage resulting from store construction has been used, with designs also operations considering the snow accumulation encountered in （GWh） Hokkaido. As of the end of February 2014, 115 such 5,000 Seven-Eleven Japan 2,508 stores have been built in Hokkaido, and we plan to Ito-Yokado 884 keep opening such stores in the future. 4,000 Sogo & Seibu 346 York-Benimaru 309 3,000 Seven & i Food Systems 148 2,000 York Mart 115 THE LOFT 37 Akachan Honpo 35 SHELL GARDEN 11 1,000 0 Wooden store under construction 2011 2012 2013 （FY） Seven & i Holdings CSR Report 2014 40 Activities Conducted during the Year 3 Non-Wasteful Usage of Products, Ingredients and Energy Energy-saving initiatives through Management of CFCs visualization of electricity use At Seven & i Holdings stores, devices using CFCs By visualizing and analyzing energy use, Seven & i are replaced with ones using CFC alternatives on Holdings is working to reduce its energy usage. occasions such as when refurbishments are underAt Seven-Eleven Japan, as of the end of February taken. Moreover, devices undergo temperature 2014,“ smart sensor (intelligent power distribution checks on a daily basis to prevent CFC leakages. board)”measurement devices have been installed Devices using CFCs are disposed of by professional in 16,036 stores. These devices allow“ electricity companies in compliance with the law, and stores usage to be visualized”on the stores’power distrireceive collection certificates from these contracbution boards. Using a personal computer with tors as proof of appropriate disposal. these devices, it is possible to confirm what equipWe also plan to further promote the introduction of ment has used how much power and when. It is also non-CFC devices in the future. At Seven-Eleven Japan, possible to identify and rectify equipment-usage freezing and refrigeration devices that utilize CO2 problems, and thus reduce electricity wastage. This refrigerants have been developed, and test operation initiative has been well-evaluated, and along with of these devices commenced at five stores in FY2013. NEC Corporation (the co-developer of the smart sensor), at the“ Green IT Awards 2013”sponsored Measures to conserve water by the Green IT Promotion Council, Seven-Eleven Japan won the Ministry of Economy, Trade and At Seven & i Holdings stores, in addition to the daily Industry’ s Commerce and Information Policy Bureau efforts made to conserve water, water-conserving Director-General’ s Award in the“ Energy Conservafaucets and energy-saving flushing toilets are also tion through the Use of IT”category. being introduced. Furthermore, through utilizing rainwater, etc., we are working to reduce the volumes of water used. Water usage resulting from store operations (1,000 m3) 30,000 Seven-Eleven Japan 9,227 Ito-Yokado 6,582 20,000 Sogo & Seibu 2,354 Energy conservation using smart sensors Seven & i Food Systems 2,045 10,000 York-Benimaru 1,039 York Mart 543 0 Akachan Honpo 39 2011＊ 2012 2013 （FY） *T he totals for FY2011 are for 5 companies excluding Seven-Eleven Japan and York Mart. TOPICS Reusing construction materials and fixtures from old stores At Seven-Eleven Japan, rather than being disposed of, product shelving and fixtures are repaired and reused at other stores when stores are to be rebuilt or closed. Furthermore, so as to reduce the amount of construction waste generated when stores are demolished, reusable steel frames and recyclable sashes are used in construction. Reusing display racks, fixtures, Reusable store initiatives construction materials Reusable store construction methods DJ-HDJ method S  teel beams used in frames can be disassembled and reused. Sashes method T  raditionally, materials were built into buildings; however, we have changed to a method that allows for the removal of materials simply by the removal of bolts. 41 Seven & i Holdings CSR Report 2014 Reducing CO2 Emissions from Logistics Operations Reducing CO2 emissions from distribution centers Reducing CO2 emissions from deliveries So combined deliveries to stores can occur that are comprised of different product types and of products In addition to promoting the introduction of ecorequiring management at varying temperatures, friendly vehicles, Seven & i Holdings is working to Seven & i Holdings is revising distribution center improve fuel efficiency and reduce store delivery locations. frequencies. Furthermore, progress is also being At Seven-Eleven Japan frozen food distribution cenmade in the introduction of drive-data terminals to ters, ice-cream is now placed in“ cold-insulated trucks, such devices record driving conditions. boxes”and then delivered to stores. Traditionally, Based on the collected data, drivers are instructed vehicle engines remained running even when actual and eco-driving seminars carried out. deliveries were being made so that the flow of cold air over consignments didn’ t stop. However, using cold-insulated boxes, it is now possible to stop Reducing CO2 emissions from delivery trucks engines during actual deliveries. This development (1,000 t-CO2) has led to both fuel efficiency improvements and 300 Seven-Eleven Japan※1 161 reduced exhaust gas emissions. Ito-Yokado 24 200 York-Benimaru 15 100 Seven & i Food Systems※2 2 0 2011※3 2012 2013 （FY） *1 S even-Eleven Japan data includes CO2 emissions from distribution center operations. Cold-insulated box Delivery of products using cold-insu*2 The values are for Denny’s only. lated boxes *3 S ome data is missing due to the impact of the Great East Japan Earthquake. We are replacing delivery vehicles with hybrid trucks at Seven-Eleven Japan. These are capable of recuperating energy generated during deceleration, and then using it as secondary power to drive motors when pulling away and accelerating. Through this Recovery of empty cold-insulated technology, we hope to realize fuel-efficiency boxes improvements and reduced CO2 emissions, etc. There are 4,493 delivery vehicles in the fleet (as of the end of February 2014), and hybrid trucks Furthermore,“ demand controllers”have been account for 403 of these. We plan to replace 20% of introduced at distribution centers. These devices the total fleet with eco-friendly trucks by 2020. monitor the electricity consumption of different equipment. They control equipment that is in use to ensure power consumption does not exceed preset Number of hybrid vehicles introduced limits, and thus they are promoting the elimination （Vehicles） of wasteful electricity usage. Demand controllers 500 have been successfully installed in 59 of our 149 400 403 distribution centers (as of the end of February 300 297 2014), and we plant to keep installing such devices at apace in the future. 200 Moreover, concerning the delivery of (ambient 142 100 115 temperature) ingredients, measures for a modal 56 shift (from trucks to rail transportation) are moving 0 1 3 8 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 （FY） forward, and through such reductions in CO2 emissions, we are working to prevent global warming. Seven & i Holdings CSR Report 2014 42 Activities Conducted during the Year 3 Non-Wasteful Usage of Products, Ingredients and Energy Promoting Food Recycling Recycling-oriented agriculture (Seven Farms) Processing food waste into livestock feed and compost To both improve food recycling rates and invigorate regional agriculture, in August 2008 Ito-Yokado Since 1994 at Seven-Eleven Japan, we have advoestablished“Seven Farm Tomisato”as an agricultural cated“ Eco Distribution” , a framework that proproduction corporation in Tomisato City, Chiba Premotes the suitable processing and recycling of fecture. By doing this, the company became the first waste. Within this framework, we work to recycle player in the retail sector to engage in“recycling-oriproducts that have past their use-by dates, and ented agriculture” . these we process into livestock feed and compost, “ Recycling-oriented agriculture”involves turning into etc. Such activities are being conducted in 23 Japacompost food residues (garbage) generated by Itonese prefectures. In FY2013, our combined food Yokado stores. Such compost is then transported to recycling rate (expired products plus edible oils) dedicated farms run by the company. The produce stood at 50.9%. In the future as well, while obtainthat is grown at the farms using the compost is then ing the understanding and cooperation of franchise harvested and sold at the stores, etc., that generated stores and our business partners, we will continue the food residues in the first place. In February 2014, to promote recycling. the 10th domestic farm location was established as “Seven Farm Choshi” . This initiative has been well received. In the EnvironSeven-Eleven Japan food recycling mental Division of the 35th Food Industry Best Company Awards, we were awarded the Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries Award by the Japan Food Industry Association and the Organization of Food-Marketing Structure Improvement. (This is an event sponsored by the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries). Seven Farms outline At factories, products past their use-by dates (Stores) are processed into livestock Crops grown using compost feed and compost made from food Grown crops are sold at stores. residues. To By working at recycling-oriented customers agriculture, food waste reductions are promoted Installing systems to treat garbage At Ito-Yokado, a“ biodegradable garbage processor”system that breaks down garbage using microorganisms was introduced in October of 2011 and Compost depot Seven Farms Food residue generated by Crops grown using compost installed in six stores. Through the power of microstores is processed into made from food residues. compost. Shipped to Ito-Yokado. organisms, such devices breakdown into water and CO2 garbage that is ill-suited to recycling (such as highly fibrous substances, etc.). This process results in reduced CO2 emissions when compared to incinMajor company food-waste recycling rates eration processing, and it also offers an effective (FY2013) （%） reduction of waste volumes. 60 At Seven-Eleven Japan as well, from November Sogo & Seibu 54.4% 2013 a down-sized verSeven-Eleven Japan 50.9% sion of the“ biodegrad40 York Mart 49.4% able-type garbage Ito-Yokado 47.5% processor”was intro20 Seven & i Food Systems 43.3% duced to five stores on York-Benimaru 35.7% a trial basis. 0 2011 2012 2013 （FY） 43 Seven & i Holdings CSR Report 2014 Reducing Packaging Materials, etc. Reducing the use of disposable plastic bags Installing automatic PET bottle collection machines Seven & i Holdings promotes the reduced use of disposable plastic bags by posting posters and POP Ito-Yokado, York-Benimaru and York Mart have had signs, and by holding other events to encourage automatic PET bottle collection machines installed customers to bring their own shopping bags when at stores since 2011. Because PET bottles inserted shopping at stores. into the machines undergo an automatic process of For example, Ito-Yokado discontinued the free disforeign-matter removal and volume-reduction tribution of plastic bags on the food floors of all its (either by compression or crushing), large volumes stores. In FY2013, the turndown rate of disposable of bottles for recycling can be sent to recycling plastic bags at cash registers on food floors plants on each occasion, and this reduces the delivreached 67.5%. ery frequency from stores. Moreover, by utilizing Seven & i Holdings logistics routes, more efficient Plastic bag turndown rate (food floors) transportation is possible and the volume of CO2 （%） emissions resulting from such operations can be 80 reduced. York-Benimaru 69.9% Additionally, some of the collected PET bottles are 60 Ito-Yokado 67.5% reborn as new PET bottles within the domestic market. This“ closed-loop recycling”system of 40 York Mart 45.8% recycling PET bottles into new PET bottles is the 20 first attempt by a major retail chain in Japan to be implemented on such a large scale. As of the end of 0 July 2014, across the three companies collection 2011 2012 2013 （FY） machines have been installed in a total of 228 stores, and we plan to expand this by another 20 stores in FY2014. In FY2013, approximately 2,500 tons of PET bottles were collected through this system. Furthermore, at the stores with the machines installed, PET bottle caps are also being collected and recycled domestically. PET bottle recycling system using an automatic collection machine Recycling PET bottles into PET bottles Circulation of recycled products Circulation of resources in Japan Product packaging for private brands Automatic Ito-Yokado Container PET bottle Logistics Recycling Consumers and beverage collection York-Benimaru company company companies machine York Mart Highly eﬃcient Closed-loop Using recycled Bringing PET transportation recycling materials in bottles (Purchasing the resource manufacturing Exchanging the obtained Issuing recycle points to users and manufacturing (Use of recycled materials for recycled recycle points with PET bottles by using materials for the nanaco points Sorting and reducing the volume advanced skills) products to be manufactured and sold) of PET bottles on the spot Shopping using the points Seven & i Holdings CSR Report 2014 44 Material Supporting the Active Role of Women, Youth and Seniors Across the Group and in Society Issues Seven & i Holdings employs a workforce of close to 150,000 people when combining all of its operating companies. Our workplaces include temporary and part-time workers as well as employees working reduced hours for childcare purposes, among others. For this reason, we recognize Approach that we have a responsibility as a company to support a variety of different work formats. We are striving to create appealing, employee-friendly workplaces to support the active involvement of our people and to ensure they feel a sense of drive and fulfillment in their work. These initiatives help us to not only secure a diverse pool of human resources, but also produce new value by incorporating completely new ways of thinking into our businesses. Our people truly represent the source of our competitiveness. Background Aging society and declining workingSupporting the active involvement of women age population With the working-age population declining, the Japan’ s birthrate continues to decline while its advancement of women in society and the workpopulation continues to age, which has lead to a place is essential. However, there are many drop in the working-age population. Over the next women who are unable to find employment 30 years the working-age population is forecast to despite their desire to work because they cannot decrease by more than 20 million people. Therebalance work with childcare or they cannot find a fore, improving the productivity of employees job after their childcare years. Another challenge through skills enhancements and developing a Japan faces is developing workplaces where talbroad pool of human resources will play an imporented women with established skill sets can tant role in economic revitalization. thrive, because the overall percentage of female managers in corporate Japan is just 11.6% (2012). Changes in Population Over 30-year Periods （million persons） Rate of Employment by Gender (2013) Japan’ s working-age popula150 tion will decline by 20 million （%） Gender gap in participation rate over the next 30 years 100 100 ●Men 75 ■ Senior population (over 65) ●Women 50 ■W orking-aging population 50 (15 to 64) ■ Youth population (0 to 14 25 0 1982 2012 2042 （Year） 0 Population Estimates , Statistics Bureau, Ministry of Internal Affairs and 15 to 19 20 to 24 25 to 29 30 to 34 35 to 39 40 to 44 45 to 49 50 to 54 55 to 59 60 to 64 65 and over（Age） Communications Population Projections for Japan (January 2012 Estimates) , Statistics Labor Force Survey, from the National Institute of Population and Social Security Research Ministry of Internal Affairs and Communications 45 Seven & i Holdings CSR Report 2014 Seven & i Holdings Policy Basic Policy Code of Corporate Conduct 5. We operate without prejudice, based on fair and 6. Human Resources and Workplace Environment impartial standards with regard to employment, 2 We mutually respect our human rights, personalchanges or promotions, facilitating full expansion ity, and diversity, construct work environments of the capabilities of each individual, to create a free from discrimination or harassment, and provibrant work environment that fosters a sense vide education to increase understanding and of job fulfillment. We employ diverse human awareness of defending human rights and other resources and endeavor to realize the greatest rights deriving from them. Also, we contribute to possible mental and physical comfort and sense realization of normalization so that disabled and of richness by seeking dialogue with them while non-disabled people can work and live together. maintaining a work environment that is free from From our Corporate Action Guidelines discrimination or harassment in which employees can work together with mutual respect. Seven & i Holdings’Initiatives Assuring Fair Making Use of Diverse Achieving a Work-life Supporting Development Assessment and Human Resources Balance of Employee Abilities Treatment of Employees We are carrying out various We are developing childWe are supporting the We have in place various initiatives under the slogan care and family care systems development of individual assessment systems in “Diversity gives us power at each of our operating employee abilities through order to fully draw out the for tomorrow,”fully recogcompanies to ensure the development of training abilities of each and every nizing that assuring the employees, including partsystems and human employee and to realize fair active role of women in our timers, can continue to work resource development assessments. workplaces is an important for us while raising a child or programs that meet the challenge. providing care to a family unique needs of individual member in need. operating companies. Making Improvements Based on Assuring Consideration of Supporting Childcare and the Results of the Employee Worker Health and Safety Raising a Child Opinion Survey Each operating company carries out Based on the results of the employee Our stores provide a host of different various initiatives, including meetings opinion survey, each operating comsupport options for families raising of safety and health committees, to pany carries out initiatives to foster a children to address the trend toward a ensure that they maintain safe and positive workplace culture and shares nuclear family which has made it more employee-friendly workplace these across the Group. difficult for people to seek advice environments. about raising a child. Value for Value for society Seven & i Holdings Provide employment Secure the necessary human opportunities for women, resources during an era of youth and seniors working-population shortfalls Enhance Help employees achieve competitiveness through a work-life balance the promotion of diversity Seven & i Holdings CSR Report 2014 46 Activities Conducted during the Year 4 Supporting the Active Role of Women, Youth and Seniors Across the Group and in Society Making Use of Diverse Human Resources Trends in the Percentage of Female Managers 40.0 Promoting the active role of women 30.0 30.0% Because many of its store customers are women, Seven & i Holdings recognizes that developing its 20.0 19.9% 21.4% 17.8% sales floors as well as products and services from 20.0% the vantage point of women will help enhance 10.0 13.4% 14.6% 11.8% customer satisfaction. We are also proactively 0 promoting the active role of women in various End of End of End of End of aspects of our businesses to help us structurally February 2012 February 2013 February 2014 February 2016 reorganize and reinforce our competitiveness as a ●Team leader or higher ●Section manager or higher sustainable company. *T  otal for the eight core operating companies (Seven & i Holdings, Seven & i Holdings established the Seven & i Group Seven-Eleven Japan, Ito-Yokado, Sogo & Seibu, York-Benimaru, Seven Diversity Promotion Project in FY2012 in recogniz& i Food Systems, Seven Bank, and Akachan Honpo) ing that promoting the active role of women across the entire Group is an important challenge to be addressed. Under the slogan“ Diversity gives us In February 2014, in recognition of our ongoing power for tomorrow,”this committee has set four efforts, we received the first Empowerment Award targets and is carrying out various initiatives from the Working Women’ s Empowerment Forum toward this end. of the Japan Productivity Center. The four targets to be attained by the end of FY2015: 1. Percentage of female managers: Section manager or higher: 20% Team leader or higher: 30% 2. Encourage male employees to participate in childcare At the award ceremony 3. Improve employee satisfaction 4. Improve external evaluation Raising awareness through seminars (revised March 2014) and training We interviewed female employees in order to idenAt the end of FY2013 we achieved the target of tify challenges facing their more active involvement increasing the percentage of female managers to in the workplace and found that many were con20% a fully year ahead of schedule. Therefore, we cerned about achieving a balance between work decided to lift this target to 30% by the end of and childcare. As a result, since July 2012 we have FY2015. Additionally, in FY2013 operating compaorganized events called Mama’ s Community in nies Seven-Eleven Japan, Ito-Yokado, and Sogo & order to build a network of female employees who Seibu each set up dedicated organizations interare raising children. During these events, which are nally to promote the active role of women, which held at lunchtime, women are able to discuss issues has provided another engine powering our about achieving a work-life balance, which has initiatives. helped to improve motivation and alleviate some of the concerns held by female employees. At each of these events we also ask participants to review product from the vantage point of consumers experienced in childcare and leverage these ideas in new product development. 47 Seven & i Holdings CSR Report 2014 In October 2013, we launched the Ikumen Promoexecution, among others. In addition to improving tion Program for male employees with children operational efficiency, these efforts also make it because the participation of men in the childcare possible to carry out initiatives across departmenprocess is key to helping women play a more active tal lines through information sharing, resulting in role in the workplace and society. Since June 2014 unique sales floors that utilize women’ s unique we have organized presentations and workshops perspectives on consumers. led by the NPO Fathering Japan in order to change York-Benimaru, too, has designated its Katahira the way men think about their work styles and store, which is mainly operated by women, as a increase their desire to help out with childcare. model store and it has made changes to the comIn October 2012 we launched the Women’ s Manpany’ s training programs after more women were agement Community for female managers in order to hired at departments where few women worked help build networks of female managers across the before. These efforts have helped it to expand the Group and to assist in their career advancement. roles of women and to create women-friendly Through presentations by experts and group discusworkplaces and systems. sions, the community serves as a platform for selfimprovement. Circle meetings at the Seibu Tokorozawa store Ikumen Promotion Program Future initiatives promoting the active role of women Initiatives at operating companies Moving forward, we will support the career As part of the initiatives of our operating companies advancement of women further, raise greater dedicated diversity promotion organizations were awareness through seminars, and make changes to set up at Seven-Eleven Japan and Sogo & Seibu in our existing systems and practices. At the same September 2013 and Ito-Yokado in January 2014. time, we will change the way our management Seven-Eleven Japan is committed to developing thinks. Toward this end, we worked with the NPO more female Operational Field Consults (OFC) Fathering Japan to organize seminars for managers through changes being made to its training proin June and September 2014, with a total of 770 grams and the introduction of a mentorship system managers attending. By expanding this initiative, we to expand job duties and revise operational hope to foster greater motivation across our processes. diverse pool of employees, increase opportunities Ito-Yokado is working to promote the more active for their involvement, and create a culture that role of part-timers and establish an environment leverages its diversity to the fullest. where women can contribute their skills to the fullest because of the company’ s high percentage of female part-timers. Sogo & Seibu has made its Seibu Tokorozawa store, which is managed and operated primarily by female employees, a model store for making changes to operational processes across the entire company. The Seibu Tokorozawa store has made changes to its reporting methods and the format of its meeting through the introduction of circle meetings, which has served to speed up various processes from sales floor planning to Diversity management seminar Seven & i Holdings CSR Report 2014 48 Activities Conducted during the Year 4 Supporting the Active Role of Women, Youth and Seniors Across the Group and in Society Promoting the employment of people Achieving a Work-life Balance with disabilities Enhancing childcare and family care Seven & i Holdings is assisting people with disabiliassistance systems ties to demonstrate their abilities at their workplaces based on its commitment to provide Seven & i Holdings operating companies are workplaces where everyone can play an active role. improving their childcare and family care systems to To this end, operating companies assign employees help employees, including part-timers, continue with disabilities to workplaces, jobs and working working. All operating companies have childcare hours that are suitable in consideration of the level systems that exceed the legal standard. and details of their disability and their own preferAkachan Honpo has extended the period of its childences. In this manner, people with disabilities are care leave until the first May 15 after the child reaches working in a truly wide range of departments and the age of one to help the child become accustomed roles across the entire Seven & i Group. to daycare. The company also has a system in place Each operating companies is equipped with the same where employees can work reduced hours for childguidelines for ensuring persons in charge of hiring and care purposes until the child reaches the fourth grade training are aware of and give consideration toward of elementary school. As of December 2013, 32 of the people with disabilities. As part of the hiring process, company’ s permanent workers were on childcare leave Ito-Yokado and Akachan Honpo work with specialand 52 were working reduced hours, which combined needs schools to provide practical work training to accounts for 9.5% of the company’ s permanent employstudents in their stores. These operating companies ees. More than 90% of employees return to work after also participate in job interviews organized by local their childcare leave is over. In April 2012, the company employment agencies and partner with vocational upped its childbirth benefit given to eligible employees schools to foster employment of people with disabilito a maximum of 300 thousand yen. Additionally, the ties. To provide an improved workplace environment company set up a new discount program that allows all for these employees, Akachan Honpo, for example, employees with children to purchase its products at a makes available image-enlarging video systems and reduced price as part of its commitment to help computers with oversized screens. employees raising children. The company launched an Terre Verte*1, which is a special subsidiary estabinternal social networking site called“ Ikuaka Channel” lished to foster the employment of people with to support network building among employees who severe disabilities, employs 19 people with disabiliare working while raising a family. ties, including 10 having severe disabilities as of June 1, 2014. As a result, the Group’ s employment rate of people with disabilities*2 including those employed by Terre Verte came to 2.19% (as of June 1, 2014). *1: E  stablished in 1994 through joint investments from Seven & i Holdings, Seven-Eleven Japan, Ito-Yokado, York-Benimaru, Seven & i Food Systems, and the City of Kitami in Hokkaido Prefecture. The company offers secure, long-term employment for people with disabilities and carries out activities to raise awareness about the concept of normalization. *2: T  he Group’ s employment rate of people with disabilities covers Screenshot of“ Ikuaka Channel”– Akachan Honpo’ s the five companies of Seven & i Holdings, Terre Verte, Seveninternal social networking site for employees expecting Eleven Japan, Ito-Yokado, and Seven & i Food Systems. a baby or raising a family. Terre Verte website: http://terube.jp/index.html Seven & i Food Systems has a leave of absence program that allows employees who want to focus on childcare Trends in the Employment Rate of People with Disabilities to return to work by first April 15 after the child turns （ %） one (which can be extended by up to one year 2.4 Group wide 2.19% depending on the situation) or employees that need to care for a family member to take leave for up to two York-Benimaru 2.06% 2.2 years. The company also has a reduced work hours Seven Bank 2.04% system where employees can reduce their workday by 2.0 Sogo & Seibu 2.04% up to four hours and a re-employment system that gives Akachan Honpo 2.00% priority to the hiring of employees after they temporarily York Mart 1.94% retire at the mandatory age. These programs and sys1.8 tems are also made available to part-timers. Employees 2011 2012 2013 （FY） * Fiscal year data is as of June 1 of the following fiscal year. can use the reduced work hours system until the April 15 of the year when their child starts junior high school. 49 Seven & i Holdings CSR Report 2014 Volunteer leave system Supporting Development of Employee Abilities To support employee participation in volunteer Open recruitment system for human activities for welfare, environmental beautification, resources and disaster reconstruction support, Seven-Eleven Japan, Ito-Yokado, and Seven & i Food Systems Seven & i Holdings implements an open recruitment have instituted a volunteer leave system under system for human resources that encompasses all of which employees can take five days off per year for its operating companies in order to respect the will volunteer work. of employees and ensure the right person is placed In FY2013, nine employees from Ito-Yokado took in the right job to fully leverage their abilities. volunteer leave to participate in charity fundraising Each operating company, too, has established its activities, sign language classes and Boy Scouts own open recruitment system. For example at Itoevents, among others. Yokado, employees who have worked for at least two years for the company can apply for all the Kurumin Mark managerial positions and jobs regardless of their work experience or seniority. In FY2013, 53 of 332 Seven & i Holdings earned the next-generation applicants were placed in the positions or jobs of Kurumin Mark in 2013 in recognition of its efforts to their choice. support employees raising children. Akachan Honpo launched a similar system in Ito-Yokado earning this distinction in FY2013 where employees can apply for a position 2007 and 2011, Seven Bank in 2009 of their choice. During the first fiscal year 74 and Sogo & Seibu in 2014. employees were placed in the job of their choosing. Going forward, the entire Seven & i Group will Family care training continue to expand its efforts to enhance employee motivation and opportunities for employees to fully Seven Bank organized a family care seminar on leverage their abilities. basic knowledge about the field to promote awareness as Japan’ s population continues to age. This Aiding personal development seminar was held in December 2013 on the theme of first-time family care providers, with a total of 44 Seven & i Holdings constantly works to develop its people attending. human resources through the individual training systems created by its operating companies. In this manner, we are supporting the development of employee abilities through our own organic systems, TOPICS programs and frameworks. As part of these efforts, Contest for a slogan to raise awareness each of our operating companies aids employees in about human rights their personal development endeavors. Every year Seven & i Holdings calls on employees For example, Seven & i Food Systems provides aid and their families to enter a contest for a slogan to for employees to obtain national certifications as raise awareness about human rights in order to food preparer, health supervisor, or registered dietifoster more opportunities for people to consider this cian, among others. This proactive support helps to important subject. In FY2013 a record high total of enhance employees’awareness of food safety and 63,556 slogans were received (Employee Category: security. 61,534 / Family Category: 2,022). Seven Bank has sent several employees each year since FY2008 to university business schools as part of its efforts to develop the future leaders of the Winning entries: company. At the same time, Seven Bank is also Employee Category: committed to improving the communication abili“Everyone’ s individuality is like the many ties of its personnel in foreign languages, and in colors and forms that combine together FY2013 it provided aid to employees who obtained above a certain score on their TOEIC exam after the to create a beautiful landscape” completion of a correspondence course recomFamily Category: mended by the company. In addition to this, “See and ask‘Are you okay?’ ; vocalize employees are able to participate in outside lan‘Thank you’ guage training courses to improve their abilities. Seven & i Holdings CSR Report 2014 50 Activities Conducted during the Year 4 Supporting the Active Role of Women, Youth and Seniors Across the Group and in Society Assuring Fair Assessment and Treatment of Employees Through this system the company is promoting the appointment of contract workers to store manager Fairness based on self-evaluations positions. (As of July 31, 2014, 49 part-timers had become contract workers and one a permanent Seven & i Holdings implements self evaluationemployee.) based assessment systems for employees to maximize their individual abilities and ensure fair Commending successful employees assessments free of unreasonable discrimination, such as social status, birthplace, race, creed or Seven & i Holdings has its own commendation gender. At each operating company, evaluations system that it uses to help enhance morale. Comare carried out twice a year and cover all employmendations are made by the president of each ees, including part-timers. Employees self-evaluate operating company, and the achievements of which their job performance, then managers conduct their are shared internally. own assessment, with the employee and manager Seven-Eleven Japan carries out a campaign to meeting afterwards to discuss the results. Through select employees for commendations based on this process, employees are able to understand assessment criteria that includes, target fulfillment, their performance, strong points and challenges. willingness to tackle new duties, impact on the The process also ensures evaluations maintain company, and contributions to society. Commentransparency and fairness. dations are aired on video at internal conferences and shared widely across the company. Awards for Selection of various work styles these commendations are presented by the president. As of February 2014, a total of 6,767 employSeven & i Holdings’operating companies also focus ees had been recognized with commendations on improving their systems to help individual since the program was started in 2007. employees choose various work styles to increase their motivation for work. For example, Ito-Yokado has a program enabling part-timers to choose from diverse working styles. If the part-timer is recognized for their skills and work after applying, they can step up from the regular partner designation to Career Partner or Leader Partner. There is also a program in place where part-timers designated as Leader Partner can be hired on as a monthly salaried permanent employee Commendation ceremony or contract worker. To date some 600 part-timers have become monthly salaried permanent employYork-Benimaru has a commendation program that ees or contract workers. A large number of partrecognizes employees who were instrumental timers have also been hired on in managerial roles, behind initiatives that serve as models for the entire such as sales floor manager or chief. company. This program commends employees who Akachan Honpo launched a similar program in during the process of tackling an ambitious profesSeptember 2013. Under the program, part-timers sional challenge grew greatly and achieved sucare screening for their product and operational cess. Being commended through this program has knowledge and those that continually receive high proven to be a major source of encouragement for marks can step up to the designation of Part employees. Leader. After the program was instituted, 56 parttimers were approved to become Part Leaders. Once appointed as Part Leader, employees are able to be promoted to higher positions. Seven & i Food Systems has an ability-based evaluation and compensation system for its part-timers, who comprise some 90 % of its store employees. Under this system, an employee’ s abilities and skills are factored into their hour wage and employees can select a work method that suits their goals or lifestyle. The company instituted a new contract worker system beginning this year under which part-timers can also become contract workers. 51 Seven & i Holdings CSR Report 2014 Assuring Consideration of Worker Health and Safety Mental health seminars for managers Health consultation service Seven & i Holdings is implementing mental health prevention measures. At operating companies, Seven & i Holdings is committed to maintaining safe managers receive training to improve their listening and comfortable workplaces for employees. To this ability when it comes to mental health issues, while end, each operating company regularly holds meetall employees receive training on self-care to preings of its safety and health committee and provent mental health problems. For example, Itovides employees with regular health checkups, Yokado held a seminar on depression for managers while the Group’ s headquarters has set up a health at its store manager conference. In the event that an management center for employees. Moreover, the employee at an operating company faces a mental Group has introduced a system in which clinical health problem, the health management center suppsychotherapists and counselors provide employports that employee in overcoming the problem in ees with counseling services on their mental health cooperation with the industrial physician. by phone and via e-mail. In addition, health counselor and medical institution referral services are Making Improvements Based on the Results of the Employee Opinion Survey available for both employees and their families. Based on the results of the employee opinion survey conducted between January and February 2013, Breakdown of Health Consultation Requests Seven & i Holdings reviews improvements measures by Topic (FY2013) for workplaces and ways to better cultivate leadership abilities in managers through the Corporate 6% ●Mental health Ethics and Culture Subcommittee and projects imple11% ●Symptoms and treatment mented under the subcommittee. We also hold study ●Other Total 42% ●Health advice seminars on inherent issues found at operating com1,217* panies and their solutions. Sharing information 41% between operating companies on initiatives being * Including those from employees’ families carried out enables further improvements to be made across the entire Seven & i Group. TOPICS Sound labor-management relations lump-sum retirement benefits as well as changes to the The Federation of Seven & i Group Labor Unions holiday leave system. In FY2014, the base pay for all is composed of 11*1 Japanese unions. (The total employees was raised. number of members was about 60,000 as of July 2014.) Additionally, the Employment Improvement Project was These labor unions exchange information about the launched under the Labor Management Committee to organizational management and working conditions collaborate internally on initiatives that encourage for their members based on the principle of enhancing employees take paid leave and holidays off as well as their organizations while maintaining independence. reduce the amount of prolonged work hours. For Ito-Yokado’ s labor union, which implements the Union example, for stores with problem areas, members of the Shop System*2, is the largest of the Group, with about committee attend the store’ s safety and health 36,000 members. As of July 2014, 77.4% of all its committee meeting to discuss improvement measures employees, excluding students working as part-time and solutions. staff, belong to the labor union. Ito-Yokado respects the Voices from union members about working environment rights of workers and seeks continual improvements in and sales issues raised at roundtable talks organized by working conditions, workplace environment, and other the union for its branches (cumulatively 30,303 members issues through active dialogue between employees and had participated as of FY2013) are discussed in detail management. This results in a sound and positive during labor-management negotiations. relationship based on mutual understanding and resp e c t. T h e co m p a ny al so ma kes n e cess a r y *1: Ito-Yokado, Seven & i Food Systems, York-Mart, Marudai, Sanei, Yorkarrangements to shift the working hours of employees Benimaru, Akachan Honpo, Sogo & Seibu, Life Foods, THE LOFT, and who participate in union activities. SHELL GARDEN *2: A system in which all employed workers of a company must join a In FY2013, labor and management concluded five labor labor union, and if an employee of the company quits the labor union, agreements on issues including wage revisions and the company must dismiss that employee. Seven & i Holdings CSR Report 2014 52 Activities Conducted during the Year 4 Supporting the Active Role of Women, Youth and Seniors Across the Group and in Society Supporting Childcare and Raising a Child Childcare counseling service Participation in childcare support Ito-Yokado has run a maternity and childcare conprograms in partnerships with local sultation office within the lounge for babies at its municipalities stores since 1975 (and 120 stores had the room as of the end of February 2014). In the room, public Seven & i Holdings supports community members health nurses and midwives give counseling to raising children through its proactive participation pregnant women on their health and to mothers on in childcare support programs held by local childcare for free anywhere from twice to nine municipalities. times per month. For example, Akachan Honpo is a registered supporter of childcare support programs implemented by various prefectural and municipal governments. As a childcare-friendly store, Akachan Honpo offers sales floors that are easily accessible to everyone n the community, and include diaper changing spaces, infant feed spaces, and warm water dispensing to heat up formula or a mother’ s milk. (58 stores in 20 prefectures and 8 municipalities as of February 28, 2014.) Maternity and childcare counseling Sogo & Seibu has the Pre-Mama Counter in addition to the Pre-Mama Station staffed by a midwife, in order to provide customers with a regular counselAn example of the registration sticker for being a childing service by experts including midwives. The care-friendly store experts give advice to women who will soon become mothers and have concerns about the In addition, restaurant chain Denny’ s, operated in preparations for childbirth and childcare, and the Japan by Seven & i Food Systems, offers meal dislounge for babies is equipped with a booth for counts and free drinks for children at participating breast-feeding, hot water supplier, and a toilet for outlets if a customer presents a courtesy card issued children. by one of 11 prefectures and 2 municipalities. Six stores had a Pre-Mama Station and 11 stores a Pre-Mama Counter as of the end of February 2014. Picture book storytelling sessions Seven Bank Seven Bank supports the publication of “ Bonolon, Warrior of the Forest”picture book to be read to children as a means to foster parent-children communication. The bank continues to distribute the books for free and to hold storytelling sessions. A Pre-Mama Station Storytelling session led by employee volunteers 53 Seven & i Holdings CSR Report 2014 Support for dietary education Providing opportunities for workplace experiences Seven & i Holdings promotes dietary education activities for children in order to raise people who Seven & i Holdings, at the request of elementary, understand foods through various experiences and junior high, and high schools in the communities can practice a sound, healthy diet. where it operations, supports workplace experiFor example, Seven & i Food Systems, at its chain ence learning where children have the chance to of Denny’ s restaurants, hands out a booklet called take part in running a retail store in their commu“Bonolon and Food”that contains important infornity. We provide students with the change to visit mation about food manners and knowledge and the workplace of our employees, stock shelves on teaches children about the correct eating habits an actual sales floor, provide customer service and using games and quizzes. bag customers’products. Seven-Eleven Japan has a store in Shinagawa Student City, which has been run jointly by the City of Shinagawa and Junior Achievement Japan since 2003. The concept behind Shinagawa Student City is to realistically recreate a town inside an elementary school, including a ward office, bank, and drugstore, among other outlets, so that children A copy of“ Bonolon and Food”handed out to children can experience what it is like to work a job. At the ©NSP2005, © Together with Bonolon . 2007 Seven-Eleven store, children get to great customers, operate the register, sell merchandise on the sales floor, as well as order bento boxed meals from the York-Benimaru transformed its stores into classhead office and issue invoices. This experience rooms during FY2013 to hold Supermarket Tours allows children a unique opportunity to learn about (held 76 times for a total of 1,936 children) that society and the workplace. In FY2013, some 2,646 teach participants about nutritional and a balance elementary school students staffed our store and diet through shopping and cooking sessions. learned about the joys and challenges of customer York-Benimaru also dispatched employees to lead service and retail sales. outreach classes at the request of kindergartens and special needs schools (classes were held eight times for a total of 350 children). Ito-Yokado organized an industry-government-academia-led dietary education event in May 2014 on rice cultivation in Sousa City, Chiba Prefecture for 23 families and a total of 53 participants. Experiencing rice cultivation Seven-Eleven staff provide support to ensure the elementary school students can run the store smoothly Seven & i Holdings CSR Report 2014 54 Material Building an Ethical Society and Improving Resource Sustainability together with Customers and Business Partners Issues As Seven & i Holdings provides a vast array of products and services, the Seven & i Group believes it plays an important role with its consideration of society and the environment and in its contributions to the creation of a conscientious society. Approach It is vital that our business process, from the procurement of the raw materials that go into our products through to delivery into the hands of our customers, do not simply comply with the law but also have added value from a social and environmental perspective. In addition to addressing the trend of ethical consumerism in recent years, we are also moving forward with efforts across our supply chains, inclusive of suppliers, to contribute to resource sustainability. Background Reduction and depletion of fishing Increased interest in the societal and resources environmental effects of the supply chain As part of increased consumption of fish and shellAlthough many social issues exist throughout the fish in recent years, overfishing and environmenworld, consumers who wish to purchase fair trade tally destructive use of aquatic resources has been goods are on the rise. To match this increasing common. The result has been a clear loss of a awareness of ethical consumerism, it is vital to build healthy state of aquatic resources and a growing an entire supply chain on a sustainable business number of resources that face depletion. The bluemodel. fin tuna and Japanese eel loved by many Japanese, for example, are on the verge of extinction. When you choose a product or service, do you make a conscious effort to select those that Trend in global marine resources will contribute to society? Proportion of overutilized aquatic resources （ %） ● Yes About 30% The percentage of people 100 who make a conscious ● If anything, yes decision to choose things ● If anything, no Abundant (room for development) ● No 75 that will contribute to society is 59.2%. ● Don’ t know 50 1.3% Moderate (available up to a limit) 25 21.7% 37.5% 21.6% 17.9% 0 Depleted (excessive use) The FY2013 Shōhishagyōsei no suishin yoronchōsha (Opinion survey for 1974 83 87 90 95 2000 06 09（Year） promoting consumer administration of consumer affairs), Cabinet Based on FAO’s The State of World Fisheries and Aquaculture 2012. Office, Government of Japan 55 Seven & i Holdings CSR Report 2014 Seven & i Holdings Policy The world is faced with a variety of environmental problems such as depletion of natural capital and loss of biodiversity. Seven & i Holdings is working with various stakeholders based on the following policies* for continued business growth while maintaining the sustainability of the planet. ❶Give consideration of biodiversity and cooperation for activities that support work to restore it. ❷Eliminate trading in illegal natural capital and illegal logging and fishing. ❸Give consideration to natural capital at risk of depletion. ❹Promote and communicate traceability for agricultural, livestock and marine products and communicate information. * Amended to reflect changes in social conditions and new information.  From our Basic Policy on Sustainable Procurement Seven & i Holdings’Initiatives Creation of Strengthening Awareness-Raising Sustainable Forest Basic Guidelines of implementation of Business Activities Aimed at Conservation Activities Sustainable Procurement Partner Action Guidelines Customers For procurement of natural We will strengthen impleWe have created the Seven We develop and supply capital products, sustainmentation of the Business & i Forest project to contribenvironmentally friendly able procurement across Partner Action Guidelines in ute to the prevention of products that help our future generations is order to provide customers global warming and consercustomers to understand required, and we have with safe, reliable products vation of biological the need for a sustainable created a sustainable proand to fulfill our societal diversity, society through the prevencurement action plan on the responsibilities in cooperation of global warming, urging of stakeholders. tion with our suppliers on conservation of biodiversity, matters such as human etc. rights, labor issues and the environment. Value for Value for society Seven & i Holdings Enhanced resource Secured raw material sustainability supplies Enhanced social/ Reduction of supply environmental consideration chain risk by customers and suppliers Seven & i Holdings CSR Report 2014 56 Activities Conducted during the Year 5 Building an Ethical society and Improving Resource Sustainability together with Customers and Business Partners Creation of Basic Guidelines for Sustainable Procurement Strengthening Implementation of Business Partner Action Guidelines Amid growing interest in global environmental Background issues, people have also begun to demand that businesses give heed to natural resource depletion At Seven & i Holdings, the globalization of the and biodiversity caused by population growth and economy and the growth in dispersion of manufaclifestyle changes in addition to addressing global turing licenses and places of origin around the warming. To respond to such demands and expecworld means that we implement Business Partner tations from customers and other stakeholders, we Action Guidelines in order to provide safe and reliwill, in addition to creating various kinds of value able products to customers and to fulfil our social through our businesses, aim for sustainable growth responsibility in cooperation with suppliers in areas across the Group while creating a sustainable socisuch as human rights, labor and the environment. ety; this will be done through our basic guidelines As social issues grow more complicated and for sustainable procurement (announced Septemdiverse, various stakeholders call are called upon to ber 2014), which clearly set out the policies for resolve them, while the scope of corporate social Group procurement activities. responsibility has grown to extend beyond business Seven & i Holdings aims to contribute, in cooperation activities to product and service planning and overwith stakeholders, to the realization of a sustainable all responsibility for the supply chain from producsociety through efforts such as consideration of biotion to customer consumption and disposal. diversity, thorough compliance, consideration of We believe the proper management of working depletion issues and ascertaining traceability. hours and wages, health and safety in the workWe will strive to instill these procurement guideplaces and residential facilities of workers, and lines within the Group as well as establish criteria consideration for environment of the workplace for each of the categories they address, gaining the and the surrounding community tie into not only understanding and cooperation of suppliers while stable quality of products and improved manufacworking to realize a sustainable society turing efficiency, but also raise job satisfaction of workers and facilitate mutual understanding between workers and management, contributing to sustainable growth for both suppliers and Seven & i Holdings as a result. The Flow of Business Partner Action Guidelines: Seven Premium as an example 1. Request to business partner to comply with the guidelines and to submit the self-inspection checklist 7. For any problems with the report of audit results, a request is made for improvement in CSR activities CSR Management Committee for Seven & i Holdings Business partner 2. S  ubmission of Report self-inspection 6. R  eport of audit Seven Premium checklist results Plants CSR Department for Development Seven & i Holdings Team 4. Audit 3. Audit request Third-party auditing 5. Audit report organization 57 Seven & i Holdings CSR Report 2014 Thorough implementation of Business Policy compliance through self – Partner Action Guidelines inspection checklist We established the Seven & i Holdings Business Seven & i Holdings has created a self-inspection Partner Action Guidelines in 2007 and request checklist for business partners with the necessary business partners to become familiar and comply and specific topics to determine compliance with with the guidelines. our Business Partner Action Guidelines. This checkThese guidelines are designed to not only guaranlist is based upon ISO 26000, the Keidanren Corpotee the safety and reliability of products and serrate Behavior Charter and the OECD Guidelines for vices, but also promote legal compliance that takes Multinational Enterprises. the entire supply chain into account, environmental The checklist helps our business partners underconservation and labor conditions so that we can stand the Business Partner Action Guidelines and fulfil our corporate social responsibility together implement effective CSR measures while enabling with our business partners. us to assess their progress in implementing those These guidelines are communicated to business measures. Business partners for the Group’ s Seven partners of Group companies through various Premium private brand products (a strategic line meetings. common to the Group) and Ito-Yokado’ s direct overseas suppliers are asked to submit the checklist. Seven & i Holdings Business Partner Action Guidelines (subjects) Promotion of CSR audits Since FY2012, Seven & i Holdings has used a third1. Legal Compliance party verification organization as an auditor to visit 2. Respect for Human Rights and Dignity a selection of factories of the business partners we 3. Human Resources and the Workplace have asked to submit checklists. The auditor carEnvironment ries out our independently established CSR audit 4. Environmental Management program (about 140 items in 16 categories) to 5. Relationship with Society and Local confirm compliance with our Business Partner Communities Action Guidelines. 6. Information Management For matters that do not meet with the compliance 7. Product Safety Assurance standards (non-compliance items), the auditor 8. Fair Business Practices provides guidance and the business partner is to 9. Monitoring submit a corrective action plan (CAP) with 10 business days of the completion of the audit and immediately take measures to improve the situaFor the full text, please visit tion for the indicated matter(s). http://www.7andi.com/csr/suppliers/guide.html At an explanatory meeting for the Business Partner Action Guidelines Seven & i Holdings CSR Report 2014 58 Activities Conducted during the Year 5 Building an Ethical Society and Improving Resource Sustainability together with Customers and Business Partners Additionally, when the auditor or Seven & i Holdings FY2013 Audit Results determine that a business partner has rectified an important and quality-related non-compliance item In FY2013, CSR audits were conducted at 30 factoor chief minor non-compliance item, or the CAP is in ries in seven countries (Thailand, Myanmar, Indoneeffect, the business partner will be issued a complisia, Vietnam, Cambodia and Korea). The average ance certificate. Nonetheless, when there are 10 or compliance rate across all audited factories was more important and quality-related non-compli91.7%, with re-audits at six factories. The items for ance items or the like, we encourage re-audit and improvement fell largely into the areas of labor thorough improvement. environment, safety and hygiene, and approvals and authorizations. With the CAPs provided by each factory following their audit that included photos, guarantee documents, etc. and a re-audit, we were able to confirm that improvements were successfully made. ❶ Labor environment (representative examples) ・Unreported work hours or those in excess of legal standards ・Deficiencies in records management for clocking in and out ・Imposition of punitive fines on employees ❷Safety and hygiene (representative examples) ・Deficiencies in firefighting and fire protection equipment ・Lacking mechanical safety devices The 16 audit categories ・I n c o r r e c t h a n d l i n g , s t o r a g e o f h a r m f u l chemicals 1. M anagement systems and code implementation ❸ Approvals and authorizations (representative examples) 2. Forced labor ・Lack of or failure to renew business licenses 3. Freedom of association 4. Health and safety ・Unlicensed operation or driving of equipment 5. Child labor and young workers ・Deficiencies in environmental permissions at the time of construction of facility, factory, etc. 6. Living wages 7. Working hours 8. Discrimination Compliance rates for CSR-required items 9. Regular employment 10. S ubcontracting, home working and external 1. Management systems and code processing implementation 16. Community 2. Forced labor 11. Discipline benefits 82.9 100 15. S ecurity 99.1 3. Freedom of association 12. Environment management 84.0 80 97.9 95.5 13. Fair business practices 60 14. P roduct 4. Health and safety safety 98.5 40 82.1 14. Product safety 20 13. F  air business 5. Child labor and 15. Security management practices 93.7 95.2 young workers 16. Community benefits 90.6 92.8 12. Environment 6. Living wages 84.6 96.4 11. Discipline 7. Working hours 98.7 98.3 98.2 10. S  ubcontracting, 8. Discrimination home working 9. Regular and external employment processing 59 Seven & i Holdings CSR Report 2014 Expansion of CSR audits in FY2014 TOPICS Business partner consultation helpline In FY2014, we plan to carry out CSR audits at some 350 factories in developing countries that produce The helpline takes questions, opinions and other items for Seven Premium or for direct supply. We types of consultations, with the purpose of effecting are also planning CSR audits for some of our prirapid improvements to help ensure fair business vately branded products for the Products Division dealings. and the Out-of-Store Sales Division at Sogo & Seibu The third-party organization contracted to operate and at Akachan Honpo. the consultation helpline is under a non-disclosure To prepare for this major expansion of CSR audits, agreement, and protects the personal information we held explanatory meetings both inside and and privac y of the persons consulting or outside of Japan to review the Business Partner whistleblowing. If the person using the helpline Action Guidelines, share the results of the FY2013 requests his or her name and affiliation to be kept CSR audit results and explain the specifics of CSR confidential, that information will go no further than audits and how to prepare, and asked for their the third-party organization, and the content of the understanding and cooperation. consultation, etc. can be anonymized before it is presented to Seven & i Holdings. To confirm that persons using the helpline to consult or report Record of explanatory meetings problems do not suffer from disadvantageous treatment from Seven & i Holdings or a Group April 2014 For all Seven Premium product company, approximately one month afterwards, business partners (held eight the third-party organization contacts the person to times for each product category) check whether there has been any retaliation. For details on the Business Partner Consultation Helpline, please May 2014 For Ito-Yokado direct overseas visit supplier business partners in http://www.7andi.com/csr/suppliers/help China (twice, in Qingdao and http://www.7andi.com/csr/suppliers/helpline. Shanghai) html (in Japanese) Number of consultations in FY2013 July 2014 For business partners who manufacture Seven Premium FY2013 16 products overseas (once, FY2012 12 domestically) and for business FY2011 15 partners who are direct overseas suppliers to Ito-Yokado for clothes and household goods (once, Nature of Consultations domestically) 31% ●Violation of rules or laws August 2014 For business partners who are Nature of (Seven & i Group company) direct overseas suppliers to consultations Ito-Yokado for clothes and (FY2013) ●Violation of rules or laws (Supplier) household goods from ASEAN countries (once each in 69% Myanmar, Cambodia and Thailand) We will continue to share CSR audit results with the product, quality control and related departments at group companies, as well as confirm and support the improvement efforts undertaken at business suppliers. Seven & i Holdings CSR Report 2014 60 Activities Conducted during the Year 5 Building an Ethical Society and Improving Resource Sustainability together with Customers and Business Partners Sustainable Forest Conservation Activities Seven & i Forest Seven & i Holdings, working together with the SevenEleven Foundation*, helps to curb global warming and contribute to the maintenance and conservation of biodiversity through the Seven & i Forest conservation project at 14 locations across Japan. Although forest trees absorb carbon dioxide and convert it to oxygen, this ability diminishes after 20 years. Human intervention, however, can extend carbon dioxide– absorbing capabilities. The Seven & i Forest project carries out not only planting activities, but also the thinning, undergrowth clearing, alternation of species and other work needed to create a healthy, sustainable forest that is biodiverse and in harmony. Group company employees and volunteers from SevenEleven stores participate in regular forest maintenance; as of August 2014, such work was carried out by a total over 2,220 people over 24 occasions. In the Nagano area of central Japan, wood materials from such activities are being used in stores and for office supplies. We are also moving forward with the commercialization of such products to promote the Overview of the Seven & i Forest Conservation Project use of domestic wood materials. *T he Seven-Eleven Foundation was established in 1993 for the purpose of Seven-Eleven stores and headquarters to work together as one on environmentally themed CSR activities. Using Forest Volunteers money collected from in-store donation boxes and donations from maintenance costs headquarters, the foundation addresses the themes of prevention of global warming, support of community activities, protection and conservation of the natural environment, disaster reconstruction assistance and public relations. In FY2013, in-store donations totaled 454,007,883 yen and 155,948,445 yen was used to give grants to 260 projects (including ongoing projects). In-store use Wood from Thinned timber of wood thinning, etc. Forest owners and cooperatives (business entities for thinning, maintenance) TOPICS The Kuju Furusato Nature School The Seven-Eleven Foundation has been operating the Kuju Furusato Nature School in Kokonoe-cho, Oita Prefecture since 2007 as a project for the protection and conservation of Japan’ s valuable natural ecosystems. In addition to the maintenance of the local biotope and carrying out environmental education, we are also using the school to develop and publicize related protection and conservation activities. As we expect this endeavor to yield concrete results in raising awareness of wise use of rice fields, in March 2014 the school’ s Natural Symbiotic Rice Field was certified as cooperating Observing the creatures in a rice paddy enterprise under UNDB-J (United Nations Decade for Biodiversity in Japan). 61 Seven & i Holdings CSR Report 2014 Awareness-Raising Activities Aimed at Customers Ito-Yokado sells a rice series that not only use fewer pesticides and chemical fertilizers, but also Products made from recycled PET encourages“ biodiversified farming”in which rice fields also service as wildlife habitats. Part of the bottles sales are donated for environmental improvements; Seven & i Holdings recycles in FY2013, sales of Koshihikari Rice Nurturing White the PET plastic bottles colStorks provided 210,000 yen for nurturing oriental lected from Group stores white storks, while sales of Sado, Niigata Prefecand has been using this ture–Produced Koshihikari Rice Certified by the recycled plastic for the Creating Villages Coexpackaging of refills for its isting with Crested Ibis Seven Premium private Program provided band body soap, which 360,000 yen to the went on sale August 2014. Fund for the Improved Habitat for the Japanese Crested Ibis. Use of thinned timber packaging In June 2013, Seven & i Holdings began sales of Seven Premium drink products that use paper cans In-store activities to raise environmenincorporating thinned timber from the Nagano tal awareness Seven & i Forest. The paper used in the cans is from at least 30% domesSeven & i Holdings participates in the Pla-Plus Projtic Wood and contributes to healthy ect promoted by the Ministry of the Environment forest cultivation and prevention of and JEPLAN Inc. In this project, plastics products in global warming. We are currently the home that are no longer needed are collected working to broaden the range of at cooperating stores and recycled; we cooperated products beyond beverages to items with the project for a limited time from November such as instant noodles in a cup, etc. 2013. Sogo & Seibu also ask customers purchasing gifts Participating companies: whether they would like to use“ green wrapping,” Ito-Yokado, THE LOFT, Akachan Honpo which involves the purchase of a wrapping ribbon with a leaf-shaped mascot for an additional price of 100 yen, of which 50 yen is donated to tree plantAll Sogo & Seibu stores participated in the Ministry ing and growing activities. This cooperation allows of the Environment’ s Green Curtain Project as a the giver to make a social contribution and provides way to reduce carbon dioxide emissions and the recipient a chance to think about the environreduce summertime energy use. Bitter gourd seedment. Sales of 80 ribbons plants one tree. In addilings were planted in pots on store rooftops and tion, customers purchasing ochuugen and oseibo entrances as part of an event with children from (summer and winter) gifts who agree to simple neighborhood kindergartens and daycares, helping packaging also contribute to tree planting, with one to promote their interest tree planted for every 4,000 gifts that use the in immediate ways to simple packaging option. prevent global warming. (Between 2009 and August 2014, 5,465 trees were planted.) A green curtain alleviates strong Green Wrapping sunlight Seven & i Holdings CSR Report 2014 62 CSR Activities Initiatives Launched in Collaboration with Other Organizations Reflecting our commitment to the goal of “ contributing to regional development and to Assisting with the donation of shoes the building of a first-class living environment for use by children in Zambia through our business activities,”Seven & i Holdings has positioned social and cultural Children ’ s Shoes Donation Areas have been contribution activities as a key aspect of our installed in every Sogo & Seibu store throughout CSR efforts, focusing on seven priority areas.* Japan. Through Seven & i Holdings’collaboration Within these key areas, individual Seven & i with the Japanese Organization for International Holdings subsidiaries are actively engaged in Cooperation in Family Planning (JOICFP), the chilthe implementation of donation activities that dren’ s footwear donated by Sogo & Seibu custominvolve the donation of products and services, ers are given to children living in the Republic of as part of their domestic and international local Zambia. These shoes help protect children from contribution activities. The decision as to what tetanus and parasitic infections resulting from foot kind of activities to implement is based on injuries (which can be a serious problem for barethree main criteria: the activity should provide a foot children). Over the period from 2009 to June high level of social utility and public benefit, so 30, 2014, a total of 425,776 shoes had been disthat it will win the approval of society as a tributed to children in Zambia. Starting from April whole; it should be related to Seven & i Hold2014, Children’ s Shoe Donation Areas have also ings’business activities; it should be connected been established in Ito-Yokado stores. with issues of international importance. Basic Policy on Social and Cultural Contribution In the spirit of the Corporate Action Guidelines, Seven & i Holdings and its operating companies and affiliates will build and maintain harmonious relationships with local and international communities through collaboration and cooperation. By doing so, we intend to make positive contributions to a peaceful Shoes being distributed to children in Zambia. and prosperous living environment as a member of local and international communities based on the recognition that contributing to the society and cultural development is an Social contribution activity costs (FY2013) important social responsibility. 2% 3% 4% ●Environmental protection ●Local community activities, and 14% 32% preservation of historic sites and *Priority areas in relation to CSR Total cost of all Social cultural traditions ●Education (including adult education) activities: contribution activities ●Social welfare ❶ Support for children and young people who 18% 1,902.16 ●Healthcare, medicine and sports million yen ●Support for areas affected by natural will create future society disasters 28% ●Other activities ❷ Support in creating safe and secure local communities in which everybody live at ease *T  his figure is a combined total for Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd., SevenEleven Japan Co., Ltd., Ito-Yokado Co., Ltd., Sogo & Seibu Co., Ltd., ❸ Conservation of local and global environment York-Benimaru Co., Ltd., Seven & i Food Systems Co., Ltd., Seven Bank, Ltd., YorkMart Co., Ltd., and Akachan Honpo. The calculation method used is based on the FY2011 Key Points Regarding the Implementation ❹ Preservation and development of culture of CSR Activity Surveys published by the Japan Business Federation. and art, and promotion of sport ❺ Eradication of poverty throughout the world ❻ International cooperation and exchange ❼ Disaster relief 63 Seven & i Holdings CSR Report 2014 Collaboration on the White Ribbon Initiatives Involving Seven & i Holdings Products Campaign Participation in the United Nations Akachan Honpo has been providing sponsorship for World Food Programme’ s“ Fill the the White Ribbon Campaign launched by the JapaCup”campaign nese Organization for International Cooperation in Family Planning (JOICFP) to protect the health of In May 2013, Seven & i Holdings began participation pregnant women and babies throughout the world. In in the Fill the Cup “ ( Red Cup” ) campaign, a United May 2009, Akachan Honpo began installing collecNations World Food Programme (WFP) initiative tion boxes in its stores, and since May 2012 Akachan aimed at supporting the provision of school meals Honpo has been working in partnership with JOICFP worldwide. Seven & i Holdings supports the Fill the on the Community Safe Motherhood Project (which Cup goal of eradicating hunger and poverty, and is involves the donation of funds to establish Maternity donating part of the revenue from sales of five Seven Waiting Houses in Zambia). Besides accepting donaPremium snack products and three Seven Premium tions on behalf of JOICFP through its stores and cup-noodle products to Fill the Cup. online, Akachan Honpo has also installed 52 White Ribbon Campaign Vending Machines at locations throughout Japan; for every beverage purchased from one of these machines, Akachan Honpo donates 2 yen to the Community Safe Motherhood Project. In May 2013, Akachan Honpo began implementation of the Facebook “ Like! ” Charity Project. Akachan Honpo’ s PR managers have been tabulating the number of“ Likes”received by first-hand reports on Facebook about the charity initiatives in Zambia with which Akachan Honpo is associated. IVESCO Fund For every“ Like,”Akachan Honpo donates 10 yen to the Community Safe Motherhood Project. (Over In 2000, Ito-Yokado established the Seven & i the period from May 2012 to December 2013, the IVESCO Fund in collaboration with a group of bevcombined total of in-store and online donations erage manufacturers. Through the IVESCO Fund, came to 741,521 yen). part of the revenue from sales from selected vendIn addition, since April 2010 Akachan Honpo has ing machines in Ito-Yokado stores is donated to been implementing an ongoing program whereby groups involved in international humanitarian supAkachan Honpo customers can donate baby underport activities. wear and other baby clothes that they no longer In June 2013, donations totaling 14.88 million yen need, which are then distributed by JOICFP for use (deriving from sales by 409 individual vending by babies in need in Zambia. Some of the donated machines) were distributed to four organizations baby-wear is distributed at the travelling clinics for involved in international humanitarian aid work, pregnant women and babies that JOICFP orgaincluding Plan Japan. nizes, while others are used at the Maternity Waiting Houses that JOICFP has been setting up in Zambia. (As of the end of February 2014, this donation project was being implemented in 25 Akachan Honpo stores) Vending Machine Activity Notifications Akachan Honpo managers visiting a distribution site in Zambia Seven & i Holdings CSR Report 2014 64 Overseas Initiatives Seven & i Holdings operates globally, in 16 countries and regions around the world. *T he number of stores (as of the end of February 2014 for Japan, end of Worldwide Store Network December 2013 for other countries/regions) includes the following: 54,000stores (approx.)* ● Stores operated in various countries/regions by our subsidiaries ● Stores operated in each country by area licensees of 7-Eleven, Inc. ●  tores operated using trademarks pursuant to agreements concluded with S Sogo & Seibu Chinese Operations Seven-Eleven (Beijing) Co., Ltd. Seven-Eleven (Tianjin) Co., Ltd. Seven-Eleven (Chengdu) Co., Ltd. 150stores 56stores 79stores North America Operations 7-Eleven, Inc. Canada: 486stores Area licensees: 1,716stores P.72 P.66 Sweden Norway Canada Denmark USA China Japan South Korea Hawaii Taiwan Thailand Mexico Philippines Malaysia Singapore Indonesia Australia North America Operations North America Operations 7-Eleven, Inc. Chinese Operations Hua Tang Yokado Commercial Chengdu Ito-Yokado Seven-Eleven Hawaii, USA: 7,806stores Inc. Co., Ltd. Co., Ltd. Area licensees: 9stores 5stores 59stores  290stores Sogo  3stores AllDay’ s1store P.75 P.70 P.66 *T  he following pages introduce major company initiatives, excluding activities by area licensees, Sogo and AllDay’ s. Sections on Chinese operations cover the three subsidiaries (50% stake) of Seven-Eleven China Co., Ltd. 65 Seven & i Holdings CSR Report 2014 7-Eleven, Inc. (USA: 7,806 stores, Canada: 486 store) History In-store water conservation In order to reduce water consumption, installation The Southland Corporation, the predecessor of of new water-saving faucets was introduced in 7-Eleven, Inc., was established in the United fiscal 2012 for all new stores. Since then, these States in 1927. The store name was changed to faucets have been added to the standard energy7-Eleven in 1946, to reflect the store hours, which efficient design plan for new store branches. ran from 7 in the morning to 11 at night. As of the end of December 2013, there are 7,806 7-Eleven Packaging improvements reduce material use stores in the United States, and 486 in Canada. Many of SEI’ s packaging solutions are paper-based, derived from sustainable resources. In addition, Reducing environmental impact whenever possible, the company strives to reduce packaging materials without compromising on 7-Eleven, Inc. (SEI) is committed to reducing its product quality or safety, by focusing on correct impact on the environment and preserving natural sizing and material selection to best fit and deliver resources. In 2013, SEI continued to make progress products in the most efficient manner. toward this goal through a variety of energy and In fiscal 2013 the paper containers for hot dogs sustainability programs to increase efficiency and were redesigned, reducing the amount of cardreduce waste and resource consumption. As a result, board used during manufacture by 2% (amounting the company achieved an annualized reduction in to a yearly total of 50 tons). CO2 emissions of 258,000 metric tons and annualized energy cost savings of more than $42 million. Energy conservation 7-Eleven’ s LED lighting is an important element within the company’ s standards for energy-efficient store design. LED lighting program is implemented in new stores and retrofitted in existing stores. LED lights are energy efficient and are also long-life with minimal maintenance, reducing waste. They are also free of hazardous substances, unlike mercurycontaining fluorescent bulbs. They create less light Number of 7-Eleven, Inc. stores, pollution, and comply better with local regulations and store operation environmental data on nighttime brightness and intensity. Since introFY2014 ducing the program in 2011, more than 4,500 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 Target stores now feature LED lighting. The program is a Stores 7,149 8,118 8,292 8,372 significant contributor to the company’ s overall Electricity consumption CO2 reductions. from store operations 1,771 1,854 2,099*1 2,201 (GWh) CO2 emissions from store operations 1,138 1,203 1,011*3 1,061 (1,000 tons-CO2)*2 Water consumption from store operations 5,955 6,707 8,966*1 8,822 (1,000m3) Plastic bag 1,496 1,390 2,985*4 2,891 consumption (tons) Before LED installation (left) and after (right) *1 E stimated values are used for stores where actual values cannot be determined. *2 V alues for USA and Canada up until fiscal 2012 were calculated using US EPA emissions factors. Fiscal 2013 values for USA were calculated using US EPA emissions factors based on carbon emissions by ZIP code. Values for Canada were calculated using “ 2013 Climate Registry Table 14.2 Canadian Emission Factors for Electric Grid by Province.” *3 Inspected by third party. *4 Usage increased due to a rise in the number of stores and sales Seven & i Holdings CSR Report 2014 66 Overseas Initiatives Coexisting with local communities in and youth, and giving kids free Slurpee coupons for the U.S. doing good is a great way to make an introduction and build a relationship. During the hot summer In order to fulfill its responsibilities to be a good months and back-to-school season in FY 2013, corporate citizen, 7-Eleven, Inc. hopes to improve good kids in more than 600 neighborhoods, cities, the quality of life in local communities through unitowns and counties received free Slurpee coupons. fied activities by the headquarters and franchisees. Its philanthropic focus areas are youth well-being, safety in local communities, hunger relief and military families. FY2013, more than $3 million in cash equivalent value was donated to more than 1,000 organizations, including cash donations from customers, franchisees, employees, and the company, as well as in-kind contributions and volunteer hours for local initiatives. Oftentimes schools and youth sports organizations Amount of Cash donations in the U.S. do not have sufficient funding to pay for programs by SEI (FY2013)* and supplies beyond the basics. A project was cre●Education ated to promote youth well-being and establish a 10% 20% ●Disaster area support strong foundation for the next generation by help6% 7% ●Economic development/ ing organizations continue to provide meaningful advertising Total youth development opportunities. $490,817 ●Health and medical science 10% 17% ●Sports Franchisees and 7-Eleven, Inc. store managers iden●Safety tify a local school or youth sports organization with 15% 15% ●Social welfare a specific need and apply for a grant. Grants are ●Other jointly funded by local franchisees and 7-Eleven, *Budget Inc. and help provide much-needed funding for academic, extra-curricular or athletic programs to Youth development keep kids in school, out of trouble and on track. In Recognizing and rewarding kids can reinforce good FY 2013, 7-Eleven, Inc. and its franchisees awarded conduct, which might have a long-lasting impact on more than 380 grants to local schools and youth deterring negative behaviors and crime in the sports organizations, a community investment of future. nearly $140,000. Donations were used to underEncouragement and praise from adults for good write a number of initiatives including research, behavior on the part of youth is effective, long-term, extracurricular and exercise activities that ensure for the prevention of delinquency and crime. children stay in and continue to enjoy school. In order to encourage and reward positive behavior on the part of youth, 7-Eleven, Inc. cooperates with local police forces to distribute free Slurpee beverage coupons. The program is known as Operation Chill. During their patrols, participating police officers hand out these coupons to children they see engaging in good behavior that discourages crime, such as helping people in need, wearing a helmet while riding bicycles or skateboards, or participating in community events. Police officers benefit from having a positive reason to interact with children 67 Seven & i Holdings CSR Report 2014 Ensuring safety in regional communities which were donated to local food banks in the Participating in community events like National areas where the funds were raised to provide over Night Out ® is a meaningful way that 7-Eleven, Inc. 1.3 million meals. connects with guests outside of stores to promote During national Hunger Action Month in September safety. National Night Out ® focuses attention on a campaign was held in cooperation with food and strengthening neighborhood spirit and policebeverage manufacturer Oak Farms Dairy, to supcommunity partnerships, heightening crime and port the North Texas Food Bank organization. For drug-awareness prevention, generating support for every gallon (3.785 L) of milk sold at 7-Eleven and participation in crime prevention programs, branches in the Dallas and Fort Worth areas and sending a message to criminals that neighbor7-Eleven, Inc. and Oak Farms Dairy donated hoods are organized and fighting back. Celebraenough money to provide one meal. In total, the tions, held in communities across the U.S., are two companies donated $26,500, or enough to visited by city council members, police and sheriff’ provide approximately 80,000 meals. s department officers and other city officials to The Food Bank program provides backpacks full of show support for local efforts. nonperishable, kid-friendly and nutritious food for In 2013, 7-Eleven, Inc. participated in a number of kids to take home each weekend during the school National Night Out ® events to show its support for year. SEI volunteers also worked on assembly lines safe neighborhoods and to promote youth safety to produce items for the program. through the Operation Chill Pledge. Kids take the pledge and promise to obey the law, avoid risky behaviors and be good citizens. Helping to fight hunger According to the US Department of Agriculture, 16 million children in America under the age of 18 are not receiving proper nutrition. 7-Eleven, Inc. believes that an environment where enough healthy food is available is vital to the mental and physical development of children. 7-Eleven, Inc. believes all children deserve access to enough healthy food to provide the solid founExpanding healthy food choices dation on which to build sharp minds and strong bodies. To help fight childhood hunger, SEI part7-Eleven, Inc. offers a variety of fruits and vegetanered with Feeding America during Hunger Action bles for sale to support health-conscious customMonth (September 2013) by conducting a national ers. In fiscal 2013 7-Eleven, Inc.’ s private store awareness and fund-raising campaign to benefit brand, 7-Select®, began offering dried fruits, vegethe millions of Americans served annually by the table chips, nuts, banana chips and other healthy charity. Approximately $170,000 were raised, selections. Sold in convenient packages for healthy eating on the go Seven & i Holdings CSR Report 2014 68 Overseas Initiatives Employee Voices areas of operations, merchandising and business processes. In fiscal 2013 the program introduced mobile access for better, more efficient study. In 2013, 7-Eleven, Inc. established a program with Rebecca Frechette input from corporate store operators and franchiSenior vice president of sees. It consists of a series of best practices, promerchandising, cesses and tools designed to assist in the hiring, 7-Eleven, Inc. training and empowerment of sales associates. The program focuses on three key principles:“Start with Customers who want simpler meals are often hiring the right people,” “ Develop them to be the looking for products that are also healthy and best”and“ Take care of them and they will take delicious. Better-for-you is one of the fastest-growing care of the guest.”The information was made availsegments of the snacking category. Our goal is to able for corporate store operators and franchisees provide great-tasting, healthy food options at an to use in their stores. Employee ability serves an outstanding, everyday value for our guests, important role in the management of 7-Eleven stores. Through the development of store employee potential, 7-Eleven, Inc. strives to improve store productivity and customer satisfaction. Supporting employee development 7-Eleven, Inc. has more than 26,000 U.S. and CanaPersonnel data in the U.S. and Canada dian employees and 8,292 stores including franchi(as of December 31, 2013) sees. Maximizing employee potential is vital to corporate growth, which is why 7-Eleven carries ●Full-time employees 16,649 ●Male  7,224 out its education and training programs. 28% ●Female  9,425 For instance, the training curriculum for OFCs 36% No. of ●Part-time staff  9,384 (Operations Field Consultants) and headquarter employees 64% 26,033 Percentage of employees employees includes 7-Excel University. Employees with disabilities 1.3% are encouraged to take advantage of this develop36% P  ercentage of women in management positions, ment opportunity to improve leadership and manexcluding executive officers 29% agement skills and technical business skills in the TOPICS 7-Eleven overseas management initiatives Thailand (7,429), has been working on reducing the 7-Eleven operating companies in different countries use of plastic bags. In 2013, the company opened its 7-Eleven, Inc. is responsible for granting area licenses first energy-efficient store. to overseas operators of 7-Eleven stores in 16 Korea-Seven Co. Ltd. which operates 7-Eleven stores countries and regions. The 7-Elevens in each country in South Korea (7,085) has been supporting Korea are managed by the companies holding these Social Service by donating daily necessities through licenses, and the royalty fees contribute to 7-Eleven, Food Bank, and powdered milk for babies using 1% Inc.’s operating income. The number of 7-Eleven of the profits from sales of prepackaged meals, stores in the world is over 50,000. Here are CSR cakes, and other items. initiatives implemented by two companies of licensees in different countries: CP ALL Public Company Ltd., which operates 7-Eleven stores in * The number of stores is current as of December 31, 2013. 69 Seven & i Holdings CSR Report 2014 Seven-Eleven Hawaii, Inc. (59 stores) History Fundraising relief for typhoon in the philippines In 1989 Seven-Eleven Japan purchased Southland’ s A large portion of Seven-Eleven Hawaii employees (America, currently 7-Eleven, Inc.) Hawaii division and are of Filipino ancestry and many of them have relabegan operations as Seven-Eleven Hawaii Inc. (heretives in the Philippines. Hawaiian businesses (includafter SEH). As of December 31, 2013 SEH has 59 ing SEH) and citizens carried out fundraising through stores in Oahu, Maui and other islands. February 2014 in support of victims of Typhoon Haiyan, which struck the Philippines in November 2013, collecting $650,000. These funds were matched by the Consuelo Foundation*1, for a total of $1.3 million. The funds were sent to the Filipino Community Center* 2 to be used for emergency foodstuffs, repairs for damaged schools and other necessary support. *1 T he foundation runs programs in Hawaii and the Philippines that prevent and treat abuse, neglect and the exploitation of children, women and families. *2 A center for the support of Filipino culture in Hawaii. Support for the elderly The 7-Eleven Charity Golf Classic is an annual golf Coexisting with local communities tournament fundraiser sponsored by Seven-Eleven Hawaii to raise monies for various charities, started As a good corporate citizen, SEH supports youth, in 1978. In fiscal 2013 the money collected by this education, welfare and health NPOs and activities. charity was donated to Lanakila Meals on Wheels. In fiscal 2013 an equivalent of approximately Hunger among the elderly has become a growing $150,000 in support was carried out for 94 organiproblem in Hawaii. With volunteer support, the zations through fundraising, donations of goods and Meals on Wheels organization delivers nutritionally volunteer activities on the part of SEH customers, balanced wheels to the homes of elderly people member stores, employees and the company. throughout Oahu Island. Monetary donations via Reducing environmental impact Seven-Eleven Hawaii, Inc. (Fiscal 2013) SEH has developed a new initiative labeled the 1% 12% “ Energy Smart Program”to reduce energy con●Health/medicine sumption from FY2012. In 2013, SEH worked with 15% 43% ●Community services local consultants and Seven-Eleven Japan to further Total: $24,845 ●Social welfare reduce energy consumption. As a result, in fiscal ●Education 2013 (the program’ s second year) energy usage ●Culture/the arts 29% was reduced to 98%, and costs to 96%, over the previous year. Number of Seven-Eleven Hawaii, Inc. stores, and store operation environmental data Fiscal Fiscal Fiscal 2011 2012 2013 No. of stores 58 59 59 Energy usage (MWh) 18,468 18,079 17,848 Seven & i Holdings CSR Report 2014 70 Overseas Initiatives Chinese Initiatives We maintain convenience stores, super stores and other establishments throughout China. Business Overview Convenience store business overview Super store business overview In 2004 Seven-Eleven Japan began full-scale Ito Yokado responded to a 1996 appeal from the development of convenience store operations in Chinese government, establishing Hua Tang Beijing and Tianjin, China. Afterwards, stores were Yokado Commercial Co., Ltd. in Beijing in Septemfurther expanded to Chengdu, Qingdao and ber 1997. The company also responded to an Chongqing. appeal from Chengdu City in the Sichuan Province, National policy in China for the modernization of establishing Chengdu Ito-Yokado Co., Ltd. in cities has resulted in a reduction in the number of Chengdu City in December 1996. street stalls and other traditional Chinese vendors. In addition to the safe and reliable foodstuffs and Amid this change, Seven Eleven is dedicated to meticulous customer service cultivated in Japan, these contributing to society and supporting urban lifecompanies strive to offer stores from, by and for Chistyles as a convenient and nearby infrastructural nese people. This includes product and service linenetwork that provides safe and reliable foods. ups tailored to the needs of Chinese customers, and local products and staff sourced from within China. Strengthening chinese operations As part of the formulation of this system the In order to create a framework for proactive expanSeven & i Holdings CSR manager visited China to sion of business in China, Seven-Eleven (China) Co., discuss basic CSR philosophy, the CSR Promotion Ltd. and Ito-Yokado (China) Investment Co., Ltd. were system in Japan and specific CSR activities with established in 2012 as presiding (investment) comJapanese and Chinese executive staff (including panies over the convenience store business and the chairmen). Under the new system, the indisuper store business operating companies. vidual Chinese operating companies will promote CSR activities by identifying the specific CSR Promoting CSR Activities activities they face and carrying out employee In recent years, as a result of rapid economic CSR training based on these findings. development, environmental and labor problems have begun to surface in China. Under the guidance of the Chinese government, the creation of CSR initiative guidelines and evaluatory indices, the disclosure of CSR rankings, and general concern over CSR has accelerated. In order to promote ongoing CSR activities and respond to changes in Chinese society, an identical CSR promotion system as in place for Japanese operating companies (p. 7) was introduced in February 2014 for Seven-Eleven (China) Co., Ltd., ItoYokado(China) Investment Co., Ltd., and their subsidiary companies. 71 Seven & i Holdings CSR Report 2014 Seven-Eleven Beijing (150 stores), Seven-Eleven Tianjin (56 stores), Seven-Eleven Chengdu (79 stores) HR development and support Fair evaluation and treatment At all three companies both monthly interview Improving skills evaluations and yearly evaluations are carried out Training and promotion of Chinese staff is indispensfor employees. During monthly interviews the able when developing stores in China. A variety of employees meet with their direct supervisor to dispolicies are in place for developing human cuss achievement of individually set goals. During resources that possess the extensive experience in yearly evaluations, self-assessments are first store management and advanced communications reviewed by the direct supervisor before a review skills necessary for interacting smoothly with by and interview with a secondary, higher-level member store owners. It is also important that staff supervisor. Regular training is carried out for managthat can bring an insight for improving stores to their ers on monthly evaluation methods, and on deterwork. mining pay in accordance with these evaluations. Before becoming a company OFC “ ( Operations Field Consultant,”responsible for sharing multi-facImproving workplace environments eted advice on ordering, product lineup, employee Seven-Eleven Tianjin is a subsidiary of Seven-Eleven training and other overall management issues), Beijing. An employee consultation email address employees must build up experience working at a has been set up at the company to receive training store. At Seven-Eleven Chengdu this careeremployee feedback and help create more condutrack training program has been improved. The path cive work environments. This ensures that in addifrom entry to OFC takes 23 months, during which tion to benefiting from the expertise of Seven-Eleven employees train in subjects such as“ Four Basic Beijing, there is a working environment in place Principles (Friendly Service, Cleanliness, Freshness where employees can freely propose ideas and Management, and Product Lineup),” “Unit Control,” consult over issues such as company structure, “Employing, Training, Assigning and Evaluating Staff” benefits, and interpersonal workplace relationships. and“ Managerial Indicators.”As part of OFC training, meanwhile, in order to raise OFCs’ability to Promoting women in the workplace improve numbers and solve problems, sessions Chinese labor contract law stipulates that both men were established in November 2013 in which perand women must have full and welcome access to sons in charge from each section teach necessary childbirth and childcare leave. In accordance with knowledge. In order to improve OFCs’abilities to these laws and with the company’ s own meritassess stores, region-by-region on-site in-store trainbased management promotion system, female ing was also established. employees accounted for 58.3% of managers at At Seven-Eleven Beijing training is carried out for Seven-Eleven Beijing (excluding officers) as of managers into training workers and communicating December 31, 2013. This is a significant increase smoothly with staff. For headquarter employees, over the 47.0 % figure of the previous year. Upper from September to October 2013 a total of seven level promotion of female employees has also been employees from the merchandising, development, positive. In November 2012 the first Chinese female training and accounting departments participated in board member was appointed at Seven-Eleven Tiantraining at Seven-Eleven Japan on efficient work jin. In 2013 a female accounting director-general approaches. In fiscal 2014 training for OFCs on and female HR general-manager at Seven-Eleven improving communication with member stores was Beijing were each appointed as vice-presidents. In also introduced. February 2014 a female managing director at SevenEleven Chengdu was also appointed as a vicepresident. Seven & i Holdings CSR Report 2014 72 Overseas Initiatives: Chinese Initiatives Employee Voices all Seven-Eleven Beijing and Chengdu stores, exceptional examples are also included in the company newsletters distributed to the stores. Additionally, in order to grasp changing customer Xu Yali needs, improve products and sales spaces, and Vice-President and increase customer service skills, store surveys by Managing Director employees and customer questionnaires are carSeven-Eleven Chengdu ried out by Seven-Eleven Tianjin and Chengdu stores every year. Before joining the company I worked at Chengdu ItoYokado Co., Ltd. While there I was able to build up a variety of experience in multiple departments, which has given me confidence in my communication skills. Through work I made a large number of contacts in government, local communities and the media, which I believe allowed me to make significant contributions as Seven-Eleven Chengdu transitioned from establishment to growth. I look forward to continuing to use my amassed experience and connections to their utmost potential, and to working hard with everyone to develop the company Award recipients and managers at Seven-Eleven Chengdu and achieve our goal of creating nearby and convenient stores for the residents of Chengdu. Working in harmony with local communities Seven-Eleven Beijing employee data Since November 2006 donation boxes have been (as of December 31, 2013) in place at Seven Eleven Beijing stores to collect ●Full-time 622 funds for donation to the Beijing Afforestation ●Male 352 19% ●Female 270 Foundation, a governmentally recognized envi34% No. of ●Part-time 1,197 ronmental conservation organization. employees 15% The foundation uses donations from citizens to 1,819 Employees with disabilities 2.2% 66% plant trees in anti-erosion tracts in Beijing and Women in management positions (exc. officers) 58% surrounding areas so as to protect against sandChinese officers 33% storms and desertification. Seven Eleven Chengdu’ s social contributions have also garnered high praise from the industry and Chinese government. In fiscal 2012 the company Increasing customer satisfaction received a responsible retailer ’ s award from organizations such as the Chengdu Retail Chain Customer feedback centers were established at all Association and Chengdu Chamber of Commerce, three companies to approach product and service and in fiscal 2013 received a yearly award for improvements from the customers’points of view. contribution to the public good. The information gathered is divided by subject and then shared with individual departments and stores. At Seven-Eleven Beijing and Tianjin, an in-company Funds Raised “ CEO Prize”is also awarded based on positive cusFiscal 2011 148,586 yuan tomer feedback (after application by stores and Fiscal 2012 164,884 yuan checking by OFCs and related departments). Fiscal 2013 112,406 yuan In order to improve customer service a system is in place at the three companies to award employees that display a high level of store friendliness and professional skill. The purpose of the system is to improve friendliness toward customers, and to increase employee motivation and retention. In order to encourage exceptional customer service at 73 Seven & i Holdings CSR Report 2014 Activities at Seven-Eleven Chengdu Reducing environmental impact ❶ Since 2012 Seven-Eleven Chengdu has recognized July 11 and November 7 as“ 7-11 Days,” In China growing demand for electricity has led to with activities geared toward contributing to supply shortages and a sharp rise in electricity fees. local society and maintaining clean and beautiful This makes electricity conservation vital to corporacity environments. For instance, previous activitions, both in order to reduce environmental impact ties have included cleanup drives around stores and control costs. In fiscal 2013 Seven-Eleven Beiand headquarters, and distribution of free portajing rolled out preliminary introduction of LED lightble ashtrays to discourage littering. ing at two stores. In fiscal 2014 the company plans to introduce LED lighting for all existing stores. Seven Eleven Tianjin has also shown a significant benefit in terms of cost by using LED storefront signage from the same manufacturer as for SevenEleven Japan. In February 2011, the Wang Yang Factory went into operation. The factory is dedicated to production for Seven-Eleven Beijing with joint investment from Seven-Eleven Japan and Warabeya Nichiyo Co., Ltd. The factory is the first in China to receive authorization to produce lunch boxes and is environmentally On 7-11 Days the company explains Seven-Eleven’ s friendly, with exemplary water and waste treatment commitment to environmental protection to citizens and solicits signatures facilities. Additionally, excess foodstuffs are used as pig feed. The factory also contributes to the local economy, proactively employing local workers and ❷ Since 2013 the chairman and employees have sourcing ingredients from local suppliers. visited Benevolence Family, a home for children and youth with intellectual disabilities, on June 1 (Children’ s Day) and Christmas. The chairman Number of Seven-Eleven Beijing stores and and employees hand out presents, and form environmental data bonds with the children by participating in Fiscal Fiscal Fiscal lessons. 2011 2012 2013 No. of stores 147 200 150*3 Electricity usage 13,216 20,675*1 19,648 (MWh) Water usage 55 82*2 69 (1,000 m3) *1 D ue to government restrictions on gas usage, in-store kitchens have converted from gas to electricity use. As a result, electricity usage increased in fiscal 2012. *2 The data collection method was changed. *3 S  even-Eleven Beijing stores within Tianjin City were transferred to Seven-Eleven Tianjing. As a result, the number of stores as of the end of the fiscal year decreased greatly in comparison to fiscal 2012. ❸ When the Lushan Earthquake occurred in Ya’ an City in the Sichuan Province in April 2013, the company immediately delivered rice balls, meat buns, mineral water and other supplies to the affected area. The fast response was praised in SNS and media outlets. Seven & i Holdings CSR Report 2014 74 Overseas Initiatives: Chinese Initiatives Hua Tang Yokado/Chengdu Ito-Yokado Promoting chinese employees Athletic meet to foster employee unity Following a general philosophy of‘ localization,’ Since fiscal 2011 Chengdu Ito-Yokado has held a these companies proactively pursue promotion of yearly athletic meet for all employees and tenants. Chinese employees. Chinese core workforce and Each store forms a team, fostering employee unity store management systems are in place. As a result, by competing in team competitions and cheering as of December 31, 2013 the ratio of Chinese maneach other on. There is also participation from partagement (excluding officers) is 94 % at Hua Tang ner company executives and local customers, which Yokado and 86% at Chengdu Ito-Yokado. Seven of helps to foster interaction with these groups. nine Hua Tang Yokado stores and all Chengdu ItoYokado stores are operated by Chinese general managers. TOPICS Workplace promotion for women in China has also First Chinese female CEO (President) been improving. Women account for 68% of manappointed in May 2014 at Chengdu agement at Hua Tang Yokado, and 48% at Chengdu Ito-Yokado. Ito-Yokado Improving employee skills A training program is in place to help motivate local workers and allow each employee to succeed to Xiaosu Jin their fullest potential. There are also a variety of CEO awards and inter-employee competitions in place. Chengdu Ito-Yokado At Chengdu Ito-Yokado, a training program with I first entered the company in 1998 as a translator at outside lectures was also introduced for executive Chengdu Ito-Yokado Store Number One. My duties staff to improve communications and leadership involved translating for the managing director, but I skills. Through the program, executive staff reaffirm was also proactive about proposing ideas that their role in training their employees and study comoccurred to me while mediating between others at munication skills for maximizing the individual the store. In recognition of my efforts I was promoted strengths of the people they manage. to a position responsible for affairs, and continued to move up after that to positions of greater responsibility. Major competitions and awards at Hua Tang Something I learned from working with Japanese Yokado executives is how to approach work in a dedicated and professional manner. The fact that the company Held once every six-month period recognized and rewarded my dedication deeply Participants report on individual and department achievements in customer impressed both myself and others around me. Results service, sales promotion, cost controls There is no division at Chengdu Ito-Yokado between presentations and environmental improvements, with Chinese and Japanese employees, and all employees the most exceptional examples are able to express their ideas and discuss matters receiving awards. with each other. Employees can actively make Distinguished An award for exemplary employees, proposals, and take personal involvement and pride employee partners and tenant employees who in company policies. This is the bedrock behind awards contribute significantly to the company. teamwork and follow-through. Stores compete against each other in As CEO, I hope to carry on the corporate culture built areas such as increased holiday sales, by my predecessors, and to continue to develop the Sales skills with awards given to the top three stores. company as one where employees can feel pride and contest Store-by-store awards for excellence in satisfaction in their work. five fields Business Proposals for business improvements improvement are solicited, with one person selected proposal from each store/department to present presentations their proposal 75 Seven & i Holdings CSR Report 2014 “ Foods with Traceability”products At Chengdu Ito-Yokado, customer feedback collected each week is shared with the relevant In order to ease growing concerns over food safety departments and stores, and a customer satisfacin China, in March 2013 Chengdu Ito-Yokado introtion committee comprising executive staff from all duced the“ Foods with Traceability”(see p.30) stores meets every month to address the important concept already in use for products in Japan. Using feedback received from customers and discuss a dedicated website, customers can learn where, improvements. how and by whom the product was raised. The concept has been warmly received, in particular by Reducing environmental impact customers with special concerns over food safety and reliability such as pregnant customers or those In China, the public looks for corporate action to with children. As of December 31, 2013 the lineup help solve increasingly serious environmental included 33 vegetable items and 11 fruit items. In issues. In fiscal 2012 Hua Tang Yokado signed January 2014 pork items were also introduced. energy conservation target agreements with Beijing Chengdu Ito-Yokado is also preparing to introduce City, committing itself to reducing energy usage by products such as cut-fruit, beef and fresh fish to the 428 tons of SCE. Through careful management of lineup. air conditioning temperatures, lighting and other measures the company reduced fuel usage and achieved a reduction of 427 tons. In fiscal 2014 The Foods with traceability program plans are in place to further reduce energy consumption, such as through introduction of LED lighting. Chengdu Ito-Yokado signed similar energy conservation agreements with Chengdu City. Producing PC/ Through methods such as switching to LED for Ito-Yokado area mobile phone basic lighting at the Chunxi store and thorough adherence to electricity usage manuals, the com(2) Production (4) Improvements (1) Information environment Ito-Yokado works disclosure pany significantly reduced consumption, with Chengdu Ito-Yokado with producers to continuously Information such as where, how reductions totaling 1,002 tons of SCE. Further capiselects producers operating in good implement and and by whom tal improvements, such as the introduction of more environments, and regularly report the product was works to further on improvements. produced is LED lighting, will be made in fiscal 2014. In-store improve these included on product energy conservation action teams will also be environments. (3) Fertilizer packaging, formed from the headquarters energy conservation the Foods with practices Traceability project, to explore and implement further reducIto-Yokado works with producers to website, the tions of environmental impact. mobile site, appropriately in-store signage manage or reduce and elsewhere. fertilizer and agrochemical usage. Hua Tang Yokado environmental data (5) Safety and quality Product safety and quality (ﬂavor, freshness) Fiscal Fiscal Fiscal Customers 2011 2012 2013 is regularly checked using uniquely developed standards. No. of stores at end of 8 8 9 period Third parties Energy usage (MWH) 55,847 54,609 56,232 (6) Third party evaluation In order to increase transparency surrounding Water usage safety, quality, fertilizer management and 413 360 359 other issues investigations are regularly (1,000 m3) carried out by specialists from third-party institutions. Chengdu Ito-Yokado environmental data Fiscal Fiscal Fiscal Utilizing customer feedback 2011 2012 2013 No. of stores at end of 5 5 5 In order to create better products and stores, cusperiod tomer feedback boxes are in place at all stores to Energy usage (MWH) 61,378 84,226 77,169 collect feedback from customers. Persons in charge Water usage 571 674 761 of customer feedback at each Hua Tang Yokado (1,000 m3) store meet every week to share feedback received. Seven & i Holdings CSR Report 2014 76 Awards and Recognition by Outside Parties Major Awards and Recognition in FY 2013 Organizer or awarding Title of recognition of award Reason for recognition Recipient organization A comprehensive ranking of five indices 1st place, NICES ranking of Nikkei Inc. including investors, consumers, employees, Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. Japanese corporations society and potential. Japan Food Industry 2013 35th Awards for Excellent Association and the In recognition of Seven Farm initiatives, Corporations in the Food Industry, Organization of Foodinvolving installations carried out since 2008 Ito-Yokado Co., Ltd. Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Marketing Structure for environmentally friendly circular farming. Fisheries Prize Improvement In recognition of store-by-store environmental 17th Nikkei Environmental promotion systems, and the use of customer Management Survey, retailers/ Nikkei Inc. Sogo & Seibu Co., Ltd. and employee feedback in pursuing dining division, 2nd place initiatives. Green IT Awards 2013, Commerce and Information Policy Bureau Green IT Promotion Electricity use visualization system and Seven-Eleven Japan Co., Ltd. Director-General Award for Energy Council “ smart” distribution board Conservation through the Use of IT In recognition of company-specific quality standards for product safety, and 2013 7th Awards for Excellent propagation of standards to group Corporations in Consumer Product Ministry of Economy, companies and suppliers; strengthening of Safety Measures, large-scale retail Ito-Yokado Co., Ltd. Trade and Industry factory inspections through use of third-party sales division, METI Minister’ s inspection agencies; creation of a system for Award swift cooperation in the event of a recall on the part of suppliers, etc. For designs that contribute to the safe and healthy growth and development of children, Seven & i Food Systems Co., Ltd. NPO Kids Design Kids Design Award 2013 in recognition of two products from the Association Denny’ s low-allergen menu and three (baby Akachan Honpo Co., Ltd. toothbrushes, etc.) from Akachan Honpo. Japan Productivity In recognition of proactive promotion of Center Working female officers, store managers, etc., and Empowerment Grand Prize Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. Women’ s store management, cross-group events and Empowerment Forum other initiatives focusing on women. In recognition of operations field consultants 2013 ECO Drive Contest MVP (OFCs) in northern and southern Oita reducing Oita Prefecture Seven-Eleven Japan Co., Ltd. Award vehicle payloads and avoiding accidents and infractions. In recognition of energy-saving initiatives carried out in cooperation with customers, Chiyoda Ward Global Warming Chiyoda Ward, Tokyo such as water sprinkling and green curtains, Sogo & Seibu Co., Ltd. Action Plan Program MVP Award environmental education, and community contributions. Major Acknowledgements Related to SRI (Socially Responsible Investing) (as of September 26, 2014) Seven and i Holdings was included in the following SRI indexes. Dow Jones Sustainability Index: Morningstar ETHIBEL ETHIBEL Member of DJSI Asia-Pacific Socially Responsible Excellence Sustainability Investment Index Reconfirmed since Index Global July 18, 2013 Reconfirmed since September 22, 2014 77 Seven & i Holdings CSR Report 2014 GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS VERIFICATION STATEMENT To: Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. August 29, 2014 Bureau Veritas Japan Co., Ltd. System Certification Services Headquarters Bureau Veritas Japan Co., Ltd. (Bureau Veritas) was engaged by Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. (Seven & i) to conduct verification to a limited level of assurance of the greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions reported by Seven & i in its CSR Report 2014. 1. Scope of Verification Seven & i requested Bureau Veritas to verify the accuracy of the following GHG information: ・Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions: CO2 emissions due to energy consumption accompanying operation of the following stores in Japan, USA (exc. stores operated by 7-Eleven, Inc. area licensees) and Canada: Number of stores Name of company Reporting period covered covered within scope Seven-Eleven Japan Co., Ltd. 16,319 March 1, 2013 through February 28, 2014 Ito-Yokado Co., Ltd. 182 York-Benimaru Co., Ltd. 192 Sogo & Seibu Co., Ltd. 24 Seven & i Food Systems Co., Ltd. 595 April 1, 2013 through March 31, 2014 York Mart Co., Ltd. 76 THE LOFT CO., LTD. 78 Akachan Honpo Co., Ltd. 97 SHELL GARDEN CO., LTD. 22 7-Eleven Inc. 8,292 January 1, 2013 through December 31, 2013 2. Methodology Bureau Veritas conducted the verification in accordance with the requirements of the international standard ‘ ISO 14064-3(2006): Greenhouse gases Part 3: Specification with guidance for the validation and verification of greenhouse gas assertions’ . As part of Bureau Veritas’assurance, the following activities were undertaken: ・Interviews with relevant personnel of Seven & i responsible for the identification and calculation of GHG emissions; ・Review of Seven & i’ s information systems and methodology for collection, aggregation, analysis and review of information used to determine GHG emissions; and ・Audit of a sample of source data to check accuracy of quantified GHG emissions. 3. Conclusion Based on the verification work and processes followed, there is no evidence to suggest that the GHG emissions assertions shown below: ・are not materially correct and are not a fair representation of the GHG emissions from activities within the scope of work ・are not prepared in accordance with the methodology for calculating GHG emissions established and implemented by Seven & i. April 1, 2013 through March 31, 2014 Scope 1 Scope 2 128,342 t-CO2e 3,439,021 t-CO2e 【 Statement of independence, impartiality and competence】 Bureau Veritas is an independent professional services company that specializes in Quality, Health, Safety, Social and Environmental management with over 180 years history in providing independent assurance services. No member of the verification team has a business relationship with Seven & i, its Directors or Managers beyond that required of this assignment. We conducted this verification independently and to our knowledge there has been no conflict of interest. Bureau Veritas has implemented a Code of Ethics across the business to maintain high ethical standards among staff in their day-to-day business activities. The verification team has extensive experience in conducting assurance over environmental, social, ethical and health and safety information, systems and processes. Seven & i Holdings CSR Report 2014 78 GRI Guidelines G4/ISO 26000 Content Index Information is included in this report for standard items under GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. There are also entries corresponding to the seven core subjects defined under ISO 26000: Guidance on Social Responsibility. GRI Items GRI Index ISO26000:2010 Page to Refer GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES 7.2 The relationship of an organization’ s characteristics to social responsibility Strategy and Analysis 4.7 Respect for international norms of behaviour 6.2 Organizational governance 7.4.2 Setting the direction of an organization for social responsibility G4-1 Statement from the most senior decisionmaker of the organization (e.g., Messages from the CEO and COO (3) CEO, chair, or equivalent senior position) about the relevance of sustainability to the organization and its strategy. G4-2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities. Messages from the CEO and COO (3) Identifying Material Issues (9-18) Material Issuess Facing Seven & i Holdings (19-20) Providing Social Infrastructure for an Aging Society and Declining Population (21-22) Providing Safety and Reliability through Products and Stores（27-28） Non-Wasteful Usage of Products, Ingredients and Energy (37-38) Supporting the Active Role of Women, Youth and Seniors Across the Group and in Society (45-46) Building an Ethical Society and Improving Resource Sustainability together with Customers and Business Partners (55-56) Organizational Profile 6.3.10 Fundamental principles and rights at work 6.4.1-6.4.2 Labour practices 6.4.3 Employment and employment relationships 6.4.4 Employment and employment relationships 6.4.5 Social dialogue 6.8.5 Employment creation and skills development 7.8 Voluntary initiatives for social responsibility G4-3 Name of the organization. Corporate Data (1) G4-4 Primary brands, products, and/or services. Corporate Data (1) G4-5 Location of organization’ s headquarters. Corporate Data (1) G4-6 Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of Overseas Initiatives (65) countries where either the organization has significant operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability topics covered in the report. G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form. Corporate Data (1) About the CSR Report (2) G4-8 markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and Corporate Data (1) types of customers and beneficiaries). G4-9 scale of the organization Corporate Data (1) Revenue from Operations and Operating Income (1) Revenue from Operations (1) Net Sales (1) Consolidated Employees (1) G4-10 Total number of employees by employment contract and gender. Corporate Data (1) Total number of permanent employees by employment type and gender. Consolidated employees (1) Total workforce by employees and supervised workers and by gender. CSR Data Total workforce by region and gender. Whether a substantial portion of the organization’ s work is performed by workers who are legally recognized as self-employed, or by individuals other than employees or supervised workers, including employees and supervised employees of contractors. Any significant variations in employment numbers (such as seasonal variations in employment in the tourism or agricultural industries). G4-11 percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining Sound labor-management relations (52) agreements. G4-12 organization’ s supply chain. G4-13 Any significant changes during the reporting period regarding the organization’ s size, structure, ownership, or its supply chain/ COMMITMENTS TO EXTERNAL INITIATIVES G4-14 Whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by Strengthening Corporate Governance and CSR the organization. Management>Risk Management Committee (6) G4-15 Externally developed economic, environmental and social charters, Messages from the CEO and COO (3) principles, or other initiatives to which the organization subscribes or which About the CSR Report (2) it endorses. G4-16 Memberships of associations (such as industry associations) and national or international advocacy organizations in which the organization Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries 5.2 Recognizing social responsibility 7.3.2 Determining relevance and significance of core subjects and issues to an organization 7.3.3 An organization’ s sphere of influence 7.3.4 Establishing priorities for addressing issues G4-17 All entities included in the organization’ s consolidated financial statements Corporate Data (1) or equivalent documents. About the CSR Report (2) Whether any entity included in the organization’ s consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents is not covered by the report. G4-18 Process for defining the report content and the Aspect Boundaries. Identifying Material Issuess (9-18) How the organization has implemented the Reporting Principles for Defining Report Content. G4-19 Material Aspects identified in the process for defining report content. Material Issuess Facing Seven & i Holdings (19-20) G4-20 For each material Aspect, report the Aspect Boundary within the Identifying Material Issuess (9-18) organization. G4-21 For each material Aspect, report the Aspect Boundary outside the Identifying Material Issuess (9-18) organization. G4-22 Effect of any restatements of information provided in previous reports, and Not Applicable the reasons for such restatements. G4-23 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the Scope and About the CSR Report (2) Aspect Boundaries. Stakeholder Engagement 5.3 Stakeholder identification and engagement G4-24 Stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. CSR policies (4) G4-25 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage. Identifying Material Issuess (9-18) 79 Seven & i Holdings CSR Report 2014 GRI Items GRI Index ISO26000:2010 Page to Refer G4-26 Organization’ s approach to stakeholder engagement, including frequency Identifying Material Issuess (9-18) of engagement by type and by stakeholder group, and an indication of whether any of the engagement was undertaken specifically as part of the report preparation process. G4-27 Topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder Identifying Material Issuess (9-18) engagement, and how the organization has responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting. Report the stakeholder groups that raised each of the key topics and concerns. Report Profile 7.5.3 Types of communication on social responsibility 7.6.2 Enhancing the credibility of reports and claims about social responsibility G4-28 Reporting period (such as fiscal or calendar year) for information provided. About the CSR Report (2) G4-29 Date of most recent previous report (if any). About the CSR Report (2) G4-30 Reporting cycle (such as annual, biennial) About the CSR Report (2) G4-31 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents. GRI CONTENT INDEX G4-32 ‘In accordance’option the organization has chosen. GRI Guidelines G4/ISO 26000 Content Index (79-84) GRI Content Index for the chosen option (see tables below). Reference to the External Assurance Report, if the report has been externally assured. ASSURANCE G4-33 Organization’ s policy and current practice with regard to seeking external Greenhouse Gas Emission Verification Statement (78) assurance for the report. If not included in the assurance report accompanying the sustainability report, scope and basis of any external assurance provided. Relationship between the organization and the assurance providers. Whether the highest governance body or senior executives are involved in seeking assurance for the organization’ s sustainability report. Governance 6.2 Organizational governance 7.4.3 Building social responsibility into an organization’ s governance, systems and procedures 7.7.5 Improving performance GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE AND COMPOSITION G4-34 Governance structure of the organization, including committees under the Strengthening Corporate Governance and CSR highest governance body responsible for specific tasks, such as setting Management (5-8) strategy or organizational oversight. G4-35 Process for delegating authority for economic, environmental and social Strengthening Corporate Governance and CSR topics from the highest Management (5-8) G4-36 whether the organization has appointed an executive-level position or Strengthening Corporate Governance and CSR positions with responsibility for economic, environmental and social topics, Management (5-8) and whether post holders report directly to the highest governance body. G4-37 whether the organization has appointed an executive-level position or Strengthening Corporate Governance and CSR positions with responsibility for economic, environmental and social topics, Management (5-8) and whether post holders report directly to the highest governance body. G4-38 Composition of the highest governance body and its committees G4-39 Whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive Strengthening Corporate Governance and CSR officer (and, if so, his or her function within the organization’ s management Management (5-8) and the reasons for this arrangement). G4-40 Nomination and selection processes for the highest governance body and its committees, and the criteria used for nominating and selecting highest governance body members. G4-41 processes for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest Strengthening Corporate Governance and CSR are avoided and managed ．Report whether conflicts of interest are Management (5-8) disclosed to stakeholders, including, as a minimum HIGHEST GOVERNANCE BODY’ S ROLE IN SETTING PURPOSE, VALUES, AND STRATEGY G4-42 Ｈighest governance body’ s and senior executives’roles in the Strengthening Corporate Governance and CSR development, approval, and updating of the organization’ s purpose, value Management (5-8) or mission statements, strategies, policies, and goals related to economic, environmental and social impacts. HIGHEST GOVERNANCE BODY’ S COMPETENCIES AND PERFORMANCE EVALUATION G4-43 Measures taken to develop and enhance the highest governance body’ s Strengthening Corporate Governance and CSR collective knowledge of Management (5-8) economic, environmental and social topics. G4-44 Processes for evaluation of the highest governance body’ s performance Strengthening Corporate Governance and CSR with respect to governance of economic, environmental and social topics. Management (5-8) Report whether such evaluation is independent or not, and its frequency. Report whether such evaluation is a self-assessment. Actions taken in response to evaluation of the highest governance body’ s performance with respect to governance of economic, environmental and social topics, including, as a minimum, changes in membership and organizational practice. HIGHEST GOVERNANCE BODY’ S ROLE IN RISK MANAGEMENT G4-45 Highest governance body’ s role in the identification and management of Strengthening Corporate Governance and CSR economic, environmental and social impacts, risks, and opportunities. Management (5-8) Include the highest governance body’ s role in the implementation of due diligence processes. Whether stakeholder consultation is used to support the highest governance body’ s identification and management of economic, environmental and social impacts, risks, and opportunities. G4-46 Highest governance body’ s role in reviewing the effectiveness of the Strengthening Corporate Governance and CSR organization’ s risk Management (5-8) G4-47 -F requency of the highest governance body’ s review of economic, environmental and social impacts, risks, and opportunities. HIGHEST GOVERNANCE BODY’ S ROLE IN SUSTAINABILITY REPORTING G4-48 -H ighest committee or position that formally reviews and approves the organization’ s sustainability report and ensures that all material Aspects are covered. HIGHEST GOVERNANCE BODY’ S ROLE IN EVALUATING ECONOMIC, ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL PERFORMANCE G4-49 -P rocess for communicating critical concerns to the highest governance body G4-50 -N ature and total number of critical concerns that were communicated to the highest governance body and the mechanism(s) used to address and resolve them. REMUNERATION AND INCENTIVES G4-51 Remuneration policies for the highest governance body and senior executives for the below types of remuneration. G4-52 Ｐrocess for determining remuneration. G4-53 How stakeholders’views are sought and taken into account regarding remuneration Seven & i Holdings CSR Report 2014 80 GRI Guidelines G4/ISO 26000 Content Index GRI Items GRI Index ISO26000:2010 Page to Refer G4-54 Ratio of the annual total compensation for the organization’ s highest-paid individual in each country of significant operations to the median annual total compensation for all employees (excluding the highest-paid individual) in the same country. G4-55 Ratio of percentage increase in annual total compensation for the organization’ s highest-paid individual in each country of significant operations to the median percentage increase in annual total compensation for all employees (excluding the highest-paid individual) in the same country Ethics and Integrity 4.4 Ethical behaviour 6.6.3 Anti-corruption G4-56 Organization’ s values, principles, standards and norms of behavior such as CSR policies (4) codes of conduct and codes of ethics. G4-57 Internal and external mechanisms for seeking advice on ethical and lawful Business Partner Consultation Helpline (60) behavior, and matters related to organizational integrity, such as helplines or advice lines. G4-58 Iternal and external mechanisms for reporting concerns about unethical or CSR Data unlawful behavior, and matters related to organizational integrity, such as Business Partner Consultation Helpline (60) escalation through line management, whistleblowing mechanisms or hotlines. SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES GENERIC DISCLOSURES ON MANAGEMENT APPROACH GM-DMA Ｗhy the Aspect is material. 6 Guidance on social responsibility core Identifying Material Issuess (9-18) subjects Material Issuess Facing Seven & i Holdings (19-20) 7.3.1 Due diligence 7.4.3 Building social responsibility into an organization’s governance, systems and procedures 7.7.3 Reviewing an organization’ s progress and performance on social responsibility 7.7.5 Improving performance CATEGORY: ECONOMIC Aspect: Economic Performance G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated AND DISTRIBUTED 6.8.1-6.8.2 Community involvement and development CSR Activities (63) 6.8.3 Community involvement Working in Harmony with Local Communities 6.8.7 Wealth and income creation (67,70,73) 6.8.9 Social investment G4-EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for 6.5.5 Climate change mitigation and adaptation Non-Wasteful Usage of Products, Ingredients and the organization's activities due to climate change Energy (37-38) G4-EC3 Coverage of the organization's defined benefit plan obligations 6.8.7 Wealth and income creation G4-EC4 Financial assistance received from government Aspect: Market Presence G4-EC5 Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local minimum 6.3.7 Discrimination and vulnerable groups wage at significant locations of operatIon 6.3.10 Fundamental principles and rights at work 6.4.3 Employment and employment relationships 6.4.4 Conditions of work and social protection 6.8.1-6.8.2 Community involvement and development G4-EC6 Proportion of senior management hired from the local community at 6.4.3 Employment and employment relationships Promoting Chinese Employees (75) significant locations of operat 6.8.1-6.8.2 Community involvement and development 6.8.5 Employment creation and skills development 6.8.7 Wealth and income creation Aspect: Indirect Economic Impacts G4-EC7 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services 6.3.9 Economic, social and cultural rights Providing Social Infrastructure for an Aging Society and supported 6.8.1-6.8.2 Community involvement and development Declining Population (21-26) 6.8.7 Wealth and income creation 6.8.9 Social investment G4-EC8 Significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of impacts 6.3.9 Economic, social and cultural rights Providing Social Infrastructure for an Aging Society and 6.6.6 Promoting social responsibility in the value Declining Population (21-26) chain CSR Activities (63-64) 6.6.7 Respect for property rights 6.7.8 Access to essential services 6.8.1-6.8.2 Community involvement and development 6.8.5 Employment creation and skills development 6.8.7 Wealth and income creation 6.8.9 Social investment Aspect: Procurement Practices G4-EC9 Proportion of spending on local suppliers at significant locations of 6.4.3 Employment and employment relationships operation 6.6.6 Promoting social responsibility in the value chain 6.8.1-6.8.2 Community involvement and development 6.8.7 Wealth and income creation CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL 6.5.1-6.5.2 The environment Aspect: Materials G4-EN1 Materials used by weight or volume 6.5.4 Sustainable resource use G4-EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials 6.5.4 Sustainable resource use Promoting Food Recycling (43) CSR Data Aspect: Energy G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organization 6.5.4 Sustainable resource use Reducing CO2 Emissions at Stores (40) Overseas Initiatives (66,70,74,76) CSR Data G4-EN4 Energy consumption outside of the organization 6.5.4 Sustainable resource use G4-EN5 Energy intensity 6.5.4 Sustainable resource use G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption 6.5.4 Sustainable resource use Reducing CO2 Emissions at Stores (40) 6.5.5 Climate change mitigation and adaptation CSR Data G4-EN7 Reductions in energy requirements of products and services 6.5.4 Sustainable resource use 6.5.5 Climate change mitigation and adaptation Aspect: Water G4-EN8 Total water withdrawal by source 6.5.4 Sustainable resource use Measures to conserve water (41) Overseas Initiatives (66,74,76) CSR Data G4-EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water 6.5.4 Sustainable resource use G4-EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused 6.5.4 Sustainable resource use Aspect: Biodiversity G4-EN11 Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected 6.5.6 Protection of the environment, biodiversity areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas and restoration of natural habitats 81 Seven & i Holdings CSR Report 2014 GRI Items GRI Index ISO26000:2010 Page to Refer G4-EN12 Description on significant impacts on activities, products,and services on 6.5.6 Protection of the environment, biodiversity biodiversity in protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside and restoration of natural habitats protected areas G4-EN13 Habitats protected or restored 6.5.6 Protection of the environment, biodiversity Sustainable Forest Conservation Activities (61) and restoration of natural habitats G4-EN14 Total number of iucn red list species and national conservation list species 6.5.6 Protection of the environment, biodiversity With habitats in areas affected by operations, by level of extinction risk and restoration of natural habitats Aspect: Emissions G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas（GHG）emissions（SCOPE １） 6.5.5 Climate change mitigation and adaptation Attaining an Appropriate Grasp of Environmental Impact (39) Greenhous Gus Emission Verification Statement (78) CSR Data G4-EN16 Energy indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (SCOPE 2) 6.5.5 Climate change mitigation and adaptation Attaining an Appropriate Grasp of Environmental Impact (39) Reducing environmental impact (66) Greenhous Gus Emission Verification Statement (78) CSR Data G4-EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (SCOPE 3) 6.5.5 Climate change mitigation and adaptation Reducing CO2 Emissions from Logistics Operations (42) CSR Data G4-EN18 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity 6.5.5 Climate change mitigation and adaptation G4-EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions 6.5.5 Climate change mitigation and adaptation Attaining an Appropriate Grasp of Environmental Impact (39) Reducing CO2 Emissions from Logistics Operations (42) CSR Data G4-EN20 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) 6.5.3 Prevention of pollution Management of CFCs (41) 6.5.5 Climate change mitigation and adaptation G4-EN21 Nox, Sox, and other significant air emissions 6.5.3 Prevention of pollution Aspect: Effluents and Waste G4-EN22 Total water discharge by quality and destination 6.5.3 Prevention of pollution 6.5.4 Sustainable resource use G4-EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method 6.5.3 Prevention of pollution Promoting Food Recycling (43) Reducing Packaging Materials, etc. (44) CSR Data G4-EN24 Total number and volume of significant spills 6.5.3 Prevention of pollution G4-EN25 Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed 6.5.3 Prevention of pollution hazardous under the terms of the basel convention2 annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally G4-EN26 Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies and 6.5.3 Prevention of pollution related habitats significantly affected by the organization’ s discharges of 6.5.4 Sustainable resource use water and runoff 6.5.6 Protection of the environment, biodiversity and restoration of natural habitats Aspect: Products and Services G4-EN27 Extent of impact mitigation of environmental impacts of products and 6.5.3 Prevention of pollution Reducing CO2 Emissions at Stores (40-41) services 6.5.4 Sustainable resource use CSR Data 6.5.5 Climate change mitigation and adaptation 6.7.5 Sustainable consumption G4-EN28 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are 6.5.3 Prevention of pollution Promoting Food Recycling (43) reclaimed by category 6.5.4 Sustainable resource use Reducing Packaging Materials, etc. (44) 6.7.5 Sustainable consumption Aspect: Compliance G4-EN29 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary 4.6 Respect for the rule of law sanctions for non-compliance With environmental laws and regulations Aspect: Transport G4-EN30 Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods 6.5.4 Sustainable resource use Reducing CO2 Emissions from Logistics Operations (42) and materials for the organization's operations, and transporting members 6.6.6 Promoting social responsibility in the value of the workforce chain Aspect: Overall G4-EN31 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type 6.5.1-6.5.2 The environment Aspect: Supplier Environmental Assessment G4-EN32 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using environmental 6.3.5 Avoidance of complicity criteria 6.6.6 Promoting social responsibility in the value chain 7.3.1 Due diligence G4-EN33 Significant actual and potential negative environmental impacts in the 6.3.5 Avoidance of complicity Strengthening Implementation of Business Partner supply chain and actions taken 6.6.6 Promoting social responsibility in the value Action Guidelines (59-62) chain 7.3.1 Due diligence Aspect: Environmental Grievance Mechanisms G4-EN34 Number of grievances about environmental impacts filed, addressed, and 6.3.6 Resolving grievances resolved through formal grievance mechanisms CATEGORY: SOCIAL SUB-CATEGORY: LABOR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK 6.4.1-6.4.2 Labour practices Aspect: Employment G4-LA1 Total number and rates of new employee hires and employee turnover by 6.4.3 Employment and employment relationships age group，gender and region G4-LA2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary 6.4.4 Conditions of work and social protection or part-time employees, by significant locations of operation 6.8.7 Wealth and income creation G4-LA3 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender 6.4.4 Conditions of work and social protection Achieving a Work-life Balance (49) Aspect: Labor/Management Relations G4-LA4 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes, including whether 6.4.3 Employment and employment relationships these are specified in collective agreements 6.4.5 Social dialogue Aspect: Occupational Health and Safety G4-LA5 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management6.4.6 Health and safety at work Assuring Consideration of Worker Health and Safety worker health and safety committees that help monitor and advise on (52) occupational health and safety programs G4-LA6 Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and 6.4.6 Health and safety at work CSR Data absenteeism, and total number of work-related fatalities, by region and by 6.8.8 Health gender G4-LA7 Workers with high incidence or high risk of diseases related to their 6.4.6 Health and safety at work occupation 6.8.8 Health G4-LA8 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions 6.4.6 Health and safety at work Aspect: Training and Education G4-LA9 Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and by 6.4.7 Human development and training in the employee category workplace Seven & i Holdings CSR Report 2014 82 GRI Guidelines G4/ISO 26000 Content Index GRI Items GRI Index ISO26000:2010 Page to Refer G4-LA10 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the 6.4.7 Human development and training in the Assuring Fair Assessment and Treatment of Employees continued employability of employees and assist them in managing career workplace (51) endings 6.8.5 Employment creation and skills development G4-LA11 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career 6.4.7 Human development and training in the development reviews, by gender and by employee category workplace Aspect: Diversity and Equal Opportunity G4-LA12 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per 6.2.3 Decision-making processes and structures Consolidated Employees (1) employee category according to gender, age group ，minority group 6.3.7 Discrimination and vulnerable groups membership, and other indicators of diversity 6.3.10 Fundamental principles and rights at work 6.4.3 Employment and employment relationships Aspect: Equal Remuneration for Women and Men G4-LA13 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men by employee 6.3.7 Discrimination and vulnerable groups category, by significant locations of operation 6.3.10 Fundamental principles and rights at work 6.4.3 Employment and employment relationships 6.4.4 Conditions of work and social protection Aspect: Supplier Assessment for Labor Practices G4-LA14 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using labor practices 6.3.5 Avoidance of complicity criteria 6.4.3 Employment and employment relationships 6.6.6 Promoting social responsibility in the value chain 7.3.1 Due diligence G4-LA15 Significant actual and potential negative impacts for labor practices in the 6.3.5 Avoidance of complicity Strengthening Implementation of Business Partner supply chain and actions taken 6.4.3 Employment and employment relationships Action Guidelines (59-62) 6.6.6 Promoting social responsibility in the value chain 7.3.1 Due diligence Aspect: Labor Practices Grievance Mechanisms G4-LA16 Number of grievances about labor practices filed, addressed, and resolved 6.3.6 Resolving grievances through formal grievance mechanisms SUB-CATEGORY: HUMAN RIGHTS 4.8 Respect for human rights 6.3.1-6.3.2 Human rights Aspect: Investment G4-HR1 Total number and percentage of significant investment agreements and 6.3.3 Due diligence contracts that include human rights clauses or that underwent human rights 6.3.5 Avoidance of complicity screening 6.6.6 Promoting social responsibility in the value chain G4-HR2 Total hours of employee training on human rights policies or procedures 6.3.5 Avoidance of complicity concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained Aspect: Non-discrimination G4-HR3 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken 6.3.6 Resolving grievances 6.3.7 Discrimination and vulnerable groups 6.3.10 Fundamental principles and rights at work 6.4.3 Employment and employment relationships Aspect: Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining G4-HR4 Operations and suppliers identified in which the right to exercise freedom 6.3.3 Due diligence of association and collective bargaining may be violated or at significant 6.3.4 Human rights risk situations risk, and measures taken to support these rights 6.3.5 Avoidance of complicity 6.3.8 Civil and political rights 6.3.10 Fundamental principles and rights at work 6.4.5 Social dialogue 6.6.6 Promoting social responsibility in the value chain Aspect: Child Labor G4-HR5 Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of 6.3.3 Due diligence child labor, and measures taken to contribute to the effective abolition of 6.3.4 Human rights risk situations child labor 6.3.5 Avoidance of complicity 6.3.7 Discrimination and vulnerable groups 6.3.10 Fundamental principles and rights at work 6.6.6 Promoting social responsibility in the value chain 6.8.4 Education and culture Aspect: Forced or Compulsory Labor G4-HR6 Operations and significant suppliers identified as having significant risk for 6.3.3 Due diligence incidents of forced or compulsory labor, and measures to contribute to the 6.3.4 Human rights risk situations elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor. 6.3.5 Avoidance of complicity 6.3.10 Fundamental principles and rights at work 6.6.6 Promoting social responsibility in the value chain Aspect: Security Practices G4-HR7 Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization's human rights 6.3.4 Human rights risk situations policies or procedures that are relevant to operations 6.3.5 Avoidance of complicity 6.6.6 Promoting social responsibility in the value chain Aspect: Indigenous Rights G4-HR8 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous 6.3.4 Human rights risk situations peoples and actions taken 6.3.6 Resolving grievances 6.3.7 Discrimination and vulnerable groups 6.3.8 Civil and political rights 6.6.7 Respect for property rights 6.8.3 Community involvement Aspect: Assessment G4-HR9 Total number and percentage of operations that have been subject to 6.3.3 Due diligence human rights reviews or impact assessments 6.3.4 Human rights risk situations 6.3.5 Avoidance of complicity Aspect: Supplier Human Rights Assessment G4-HR10 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using human rights criteria 6.3.3 Due diligence 6.3.4 Human rights risk situations 6.3.5 Avoidance of complicity 6.6.6 Promoting social responsibility in the value chain G4-HR11 Significant actual and potential negative human rights impacts in the supply 6.3.3 Due diligence Strengthening implementation of Business Partner chain and actions taken 6.3.4 Human rights risk situations Action Guidelines (59-62) 6.3.5 Avoidance of complicity 6.6.6 Promoting social responsibility in the value chain 83 Seven & i Holdings CSR Report 2014 GRI Items GRI Index ISO26000:2010 Page to Refer Aspect: Human Rights Grievance Mechanisms G4-HR12 Number of grievances about human rights impacts filed, addressed, and 6.3.6 Resolving grievances resolved through formal grievance mechanisms SUB-CATEGORY: SOCIETY Aspect: Local Communities G4-SO1 Percentage of operations With implemented local community engagement, 6.3.9 Economic, social and cultural rights Reconstruction Assistance for the Great East Japan impact assessments, and development programs 6.5.1-6.5.2 The environment Earthquake (36) 6.5.3 Prevention of pollution Supporting Childcare and Raising a Child (53-54) 6.8 Community involvement and development Sustainable Forest Conservation Activities (61) CSR Activities (63-64) G4-SO2 Operations with significant actual and potential negative impacts on local 6.3.9 Economic, social and cultural rights communities 6.5.3 Prevention of pollution 6.8 Community involvement and development Aspect: Anti-corruption G4-SO3 Total number and percentage of operations assessed for risks related to 6.6.1-6.6.2 Fair operating practices corruption and the significant risks identified 6.6.3 Anti-corruption G4-SO4 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and procedures 6.6.1-6.6.2 Fair operating practices 6.6.3 Anti-corruption 6.6.6 Promoting social responsibility in the value chain G4-SO5 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken 6.6.1-6.6.2 Fair operating practices 6.6.3 Anti-corruption Aspect: Public Policy G4-SO6 Total value of political contributions by country and recipient/beneficiary 6.6.1-6.6.2 Fair operating practices 6.6.4 Responsible political involvement Aspect: Anti-competitive Behavior G4-SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and 6.6.1-6.6.2 Fair operating practices monopoly practices and their outcomes 6.6.5 Fair competition 6.6.7 Respect for property rights Aspect: Compliance G4-SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary 4.6 Respect for the rule of law sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations Aspect: Supplier Assessment for Impacts on Society G4-SO9 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using criteria for impacts 6.3.5 Avoidance of complicity on society 6.6.1-6.6.2 Fair operating practices 6.6.6 Promoting social responsibility in the value chain 6.8.1-6.8.2 Community involvement and development 7.3.1 Due diligence G4-SO10 Significant actual and potential negative impacts on society in the supply 6.3.5 Avoidance of complicity Strengthening Implementation of Business Partner chain and actions taken 6.6.1-6.6.2 Fair operating practices Action Guidelines (59-62) 6.6.6 Promoting social responsibility in the value chain 6.8.1-6.8.2 Community involvement and development 7.3.1 Due diligence Aspect: Grievance Mechanisms for Impacts on Society G4-SO11 Number of grievances about impacts on society filed, addressed, and 6.3.6 Resolving grievances resolved through formal grievance mechanisms 6.6.1-6.6.2 Fair operating practices 6.8.1-6.8.2 Community involvement and development SUB-CATEGORY: PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY Aspect: Customer Health and Safety G4-PR1 Percentage of significant product and service categories for which health 6.7.1-6.7.2 Consumer issues Supporting Childcare and Raising a Child (53-54) and safety impacts are assessed for improvement 6.7.4 Protecting consumers’ health and safety Food Traceability (30-31) 6.7.5 Sustainable consumption Consideration to Health (33) 6.8.8 Health Appropriate Disclosure of Information on Products and Services (34) G4-PR2 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary 4.6 Respect for the rule of law codes concerning the health and safety impacts of products and services 6.7.1-6.7.2 Consumer issues during their life cycle, by type of outcomes 6.7.4 Protecting consumers’ health and safety 6.7.5 Sustainable consumption 6.8.8 Health Aspect: Product and Service Labeling G4-PR3 Type of product and service information required by the organization’ s 6.7.1-6.7.2 Consumer issues Appropriate Disclosure of Information on Products and procedures for product and service information and labeling, and 6.7.3 Fair marketing, factual and unbiased Services (34) percentage of significant product and service categories subject to such information and fair contractual practices information requirements 6.7.4 Protecting consumers’ health and safety 6.7.5 Sustainable consumption 6.7.9 Education and awareness G4-PR4 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary 4.6 Respect for the rule of law codes concerning product and service information and labeling, by type of 6.7.1-6.7.2 Consumer issues outcomes 6.7.3 Fair marketing, factual and unbiased information and fair contractual practices 6.7.4 Protecting consumers’ health and safety 6.7.5 Sustainable consumption 6.7.9 Education and awareness G4-PR5 Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction 6.7.1-6.7.2 Consumer issues 6.7.6 Consumer service, support, and complaint and dispute resolution Aspect: Marketing Communications G4-PR6 Sale of banned or disputed products G4-PR7 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary 4.6 Respect for the rule of law codes concerning marketing communications, including advertising, 6.7.1-6.7.2 Consumer issues promotion, and sponsorship, by type of outcomes 6.7.3 Fair marketing, factual and unbiased information and fair contractual practices Aspect: Customer Privacy G4-PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer 6.7.1-6.7.2 Consumer issues privacy and losses of customer data 6.7.7 Consumer data protection and privacy Aspect: Compliance G4-PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and 4.6 Respect for the rule of law regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services 6.7.1-6.7.2 Consumer issues 6.7.6 Consumer service, support, and complaint and dispute resolution Seven & i Holdings CSR Report 2014 84 SEVEN&i HLDGS. CSR Department 8-8, Nibancho, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 102-8452, Japan TEL. 03-6238-2448 http://www.7andi.com/en/
