Communication on Progress (COP) Implementing UN global compact principles in the Infiniti Research Limited Table of Contents 1. Introduction: Letter from Our Leader...................................................................................................... 2 2. About Infiniti Research Limited ………………..……………………...……………………………………… 2 3. Company’s Core Values ……………………………………………………………………….……………… 2 4. Human Rights Principles and Company Policies................................................................................... 3 4.1 Equal Opportunities & Diversity Policy………………...……………………………..…………… 3 4.2 Health & Safety Policy……………………………………………….……………………………… 4 4.3 Workplace Rights Policy…………………………...……………………………………………….. 4 4.4 Whistle-blowing Policy……………………………………………………………….……………… 6 5. Environment Principles…………………………………………..…………………………………………….. 7 6. Anti-Corruption Principles…………………………...………………..……………………………………….. 7 7. Future Principles …………………..…………………………………………………………………………… 7 1 1. Introduction I am pleased to confirm that the Infiniti Research Limited reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labor, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this our second annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to integrate the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We are also committed to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Yours sincerely, Mahesh Santhanam Director 2. About Infiniti Research Limited Infiniti is a global customized market intelligence firm with offices in the US, Canada, the UK, India and China. It was founded in 2003 and since then has the experience in conducting complex research assignments and serving 120+ Global clients across 80 countries in more than 20 languages (including French, German, Mandarin, Japanese, Korean, Spanish, Portuguese and Hindi). The Infiniti team comes from all over the world and is truly diverse in terms of our backgrounds as well as our experiences. We are bound by a shared passion for problem solving and delivering significant insights to our clients. Our management and analysts teams have strong educational backgrounds and rich experience conducting research for leading global organizations. They understand client expectations and are committed to delivering high standards of quality. 3. Company Core Values • Integrity: to follow high level of ethical standards and epitomize associated virtues • Agility: to change or morph in line with business needs and environment • Tenacity: to valiantly rise (rebound) from any setbacks. To always be passionate and determined • Courage: to pursue a path that is ‘un-treaded’. Be more with less • Creativity: to question the obvious and ‘accepted’ ways. To be Adventurous and Open-Minded 2 4. Human Rights Principles and Company Policies Infiniti Research Limited believes that all employees have the right to individual freedom of expression and opinion. This is upheld by regular meetings between management and employee groups and bimonthly office meetings. In common with most businesses we have a set of policies which builds on our business principles, establishing a clear framework to help our employees, business partners and stakeholders understand the standards we expect: • equal opportunities & diversity • health & safety • workplace rights • whistle-blowing 4.1 Equal Opportunities & Diversity Policy Infiniti Research Limited is committed to ensuring that all members of staff are treated fairly and are valued irrespective of disability, race, gender, sexual orientation, marital status, nationality, religion, employment status, age or membership or non-membership of a Work Union. This means that no one is to receive less favorable treatment on any of the above grounds or is to be disadvantaged by requirements or conditions which cannot be shown objectively to be justifiable. In the event that an employee becomes disabled during their period of employment we will seek to retain their services wherever possible. Each Region's Board will be responsible for ensuring both the implementation of this policy and compliance with relevant local legislation. Implementation: Every member of staff at Infiniti Research Group has a personal responsibility to: • treat people fairly and without prejudice; • value and respect others; • ensure that no one is harassed, victimized or bullied in the workplace; • promote a work environment where everyone feels confident to report incidents that are unfair or personally offensive; • seek to develop their own skills and encourage others. Goals: We want to make Infiniti Research a company, where people are given the best possible opportunities to make a success of their lives, whatever their backgrounds are. Everybody has a valuable contribution to make; our challenge is to unlock the talents and potential of all our staff. We celebrate diversity and tolerance so that different cultures can thrive, adding to the richness and experience to our company. 3 4.2 Health & Safety Policy Our Company Values make clear our priority and commitment. Nothing is more important at Infiniti Research than the health and safety of our customers, our staff, and any others affected by our operations. Our staff should expect to go home at the end of the day, unhurt. Infiniti Research Limited supports managers in the discharge of their health and safety responsibilities to: • Provide adequate control of the health and safety risks arising from our work activities • Provide and maintain safe equipment • Provide effective communications across our operations • Ensure all employees are competent to do their tasks, and to give them adequate training • Measure performance in the management of health and safety • Maintain safe and healthy working conditions • Provide resources to ensure we deliver against our responsibilities • Commission audits to provide assurance that adequate systems are in place and effective • Review and revise this policy as necessary at regular intervals These will be delivered through long standing arrangements where we will further develop and enhance these arrangements as we strive, relentlessly, to reduce and, where possible, eliminate health and safety risks. Implementation: Staff and subcontractors are given necessary health and safety induction and provided with appropriate training. Escape routes well signed and kept clear at all times. Evacuation plans are tested from time to time and updated as necessary. First-aid box and accident book are always easily accessible. Goals: • The development of an ongoing safety consciousness among all members of the company A reduction in occupational injuries and illnesses, and the associated loss of productivity 4.3 Workplace Rights Policy Infiniti Research Limited respects the dignity of all its employees and recognizes fundamental principles of human rights as identified in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Infiniti Research will uphold fundamental human rights in everything we do. Infiniti Research is committed to taking steps to identify and prevent interference with fundamental rights and provide for the respectful exercise of those rights by all persons, consistent with the safe, effective and efficient performance of work. Infiniti Research further recognizes that the inherent dignity and the equal and inalienable rights of all members of the human family is the foundation of freedom, and that certain fundamental human rights also extend to the workplace. Infiniti Research recognizes that the challenge of maintaining these standards are unique in different parts of the world and create challenges for business in applying these principles, while giving due respect to local culture, laws, and norms. Consequently, in applying this Policy, Infiniti Research shall give due regard to the law of the land where the policy is applied. Infiniti Research also recognizes that many persons and groups have differing views on human, civil, and political rights that extend beyond the fundamental principles expressed in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Infiniti Research welcomes the discussion and debate on these issues, but does not believe that it is appropriate to 4 attempt to impose our views on others. Infiniti Research does believe, however, that we can, and do, influence others through leading by example, and recognizes that it cannot be the arbiter of these differing views. Infiniti Research also recognizes that fundamental rights are not subject to negotiation or compromise. Infiniti Research will consider policies or practices that go beyond such fundamental rights. But in doing so, Infiniti Research will be mindful of its obligations to its customers, and its duty to avoid adopting standards that so significantly exceed local requirements that doing so would place Infiniti Research at an economic disadvantage to its competitors. Consistent with the foregoing, all persons employed by Infiniti Research, shall be extended the following workplace rights, without distinction of any kind, such as race, color, sex, sexual orientation, language, religion, political or other opinion, national or social origin, property, birth, or other status. Workplace Rights: 1. Everyone shall have the right to freedom of association with others, including the right to form and join trade unions. No one may be compelled to belong to an association, either directly or indirectly through the compulsory financial support of such association. 2. The right to vote in secret is absolute and should not be restricted in any manner. When consistent with local law, everyone shall have the right to vote for representatives in genuine elections which shall be held by secret ballot, guaranteeing the free expression of the will of the electors. 3. Everyone shall have the right to freedom of expression. This right shall include freedom to seek, receive and impart information and ideas of all kinds, either orally or in writing, or through any other media of their choice, and the freedom to hold opinions without interference. 4. Everyone shall have the right to obtain or impart information necessary to make an informed choice, a necessary corollary to the rights of freedom of association and secret ballot elections for representatives. Where necessary, Infiniti Research will ensure that (1) employees have the information necessary to make a fully informed choice on the important issue of representation and (2) that no party will unlawfully prevent the dissemination or expression of any views on representation. 5. Everyone shall have the right to protection against interference with their privacy, family, home or correspondence, or attacks on their reputation, and no one shall be subjected to such interference or attack. 6. Everyone shall have the right to their property. No one shall be deprived of their property, or the right to exercise control of their property, whether real, tangible, or intangible. Responsibilities: The exercise of the rights provided for in this Policy carries with it special duties and responsibilities by those claiming such rights for themselves or on behalf of others. Therefore, the exercise of these rights may therefore be subject to the following parameters: 1. Recognizing that the workplace is for work, these rights must be exercised in a manner that does not interfere with the safe and efficient performance of work by those persons on working time. 2. Such responsibilities as are necessary for the purpose of securing due recognition and respect for the rights and freedoms of others. 3. Such responsibilities as are necessary to prevent conduct or statements the primary purpose of which is to damage the reputations of others. Infiniti Research will not tolerate conduct by any person or organization that seeks to intimidate, harass, or coerce employees in the exercise of these rights. Implementation: Constant dialogue with the employees is deemed the best way of securing a good working environment and preventing stress. The management therefore has a responsibility of monitoring the employees’ wellbeing, both on a regular basis and through the yearly “Performance and Development review” 5 Goals: • To provide a basis for embedding the responsibility to respect and support human rights through all business functions • To identify policy gaps and initiate a process that alerts the company to new areas of human rights risk • To foster the development of in-house learning, management capacity and leadership on human rights issues. 4.4 Whistle-blowing Policy We and our subsidiary companies are committed to the highest standards of quality, honesty, integrity, openness and accountability. Whistle-blowing means deciding to tell somebody official about something that is going on, or you believe is going on, within a company which is illegal or criminal, or that endangers people or the environment, or is against the rules that apply to the business. This may include: • Actions which endanger the health or safety of employees or the public; • Criminal offences; • Failure to comply with legal obligations; • Harassment and victimization; • Financial fraud or mismanagement; • Bribery; • Breach of any of our internal policies or procedures; • Unauthorized disclosure of confidential information; • Actions likely to damage our reputation; • Actions which cause damage to the environment; and Actions which are intended to conceal any of the above. We hope that in many cases, people will be able to raise any concerns with management. However, sometimes people feel they can't speak openly and honestly to their managers or are concerned about the consequences if they speak up or that their concerns will not be taken seriously. Infiniti Research Limited does not believe that it is in anyone's interest for people with knowledge of wrongdoing to remain silent. Implementation: We do not take these matters lightly, and we will take the lead in investigating all genuine complaints thoroughly. We will work together with the appropriate people to find an answer to the problem. Goals: We aim to encourage openness and will support people who raise any genuine concerns under this policy, even if they turn out to be mistaken. People who raise a genuine concern under this policy will not be at risk of losing their job or suffering any form of retribution or harassment as a result. This policy does not, however, extend to anyone who maliciously raises a concern that they know is untrue. 6 5. Environment Principles The environmental impact of a smaller business association and our scope for reducing the carbon footprint is smaller in scale than in many other industries. Even so, we find that this is no excuse not to make an effort. We have therefore adopted a green purchasing policy, in which environmental considerations are essential. Implementation: • In order to reduce paper use, E-mails are widely used to share documents and ideas. • With regards to lighting, we chose low-energy solutions wherever possible, buying energy efficient light bulbs and purchasing electricity which primarily derives from wind power. We have furthermore installed videoconferencing facilities in order to reduce CO2 emissions from travelling. Goals: Our goal is to seek opportunities to reduce our consumption of natural resources by using alternatives where possible, and by optimizing efficiency of use, whilst protecting and enhancing the environment. In meantime, we will continue to find areas where we can reduce our CO2 emissions 6. Anti-Corruption Principles It is Infiniti Research Limited’s policy to conduct all of our business in an honest and ethical manner. We take a zero-tolerance approach to bribery and corruption and are committed to acting professionally, fairly and with integrity in all our business dealings and relationships wherever we operate and implementing and enforcing effective systems to counter bribery. We constantly strive to uphold the highest professional standards, and rigorously maintain our independence. Specifically in relation to anti-bribery and corruption, the Company Code of Conduct commits all Infiniti Research Limited professionals to:  Act lawfully, ethically and in the public interest;  Prohibit bribery and corruption by Infiniti Research Limited agents;  Not tolerate illegal or unethical behavior by clients, suppliers or by public officials; and  Follow high standards of ethical conduct around the world, including aspiring to the ten principles of the UN Global Compact (including anti-bribery). These commitments reflect Infiniti Research Limited’s International position as a signatory of the UN Global Compact. We will uphold all laws relevant to countering bribery and corruption in all the jurisdictions in which we operate. We remain bound by the laws of the UK, including the Bribery Act 2010, in respect of our conduct both at home and abroad. This policy applies to all individuals working at all levels, including partners, consultants, employees (whether permanent, fixed-term or temporary), contractors, trainees, seconded staff, homeworkers, casual workers and agency staff, volunteers, or any other person associated with us, wherever located (collectively referred to as workers in this policy). 7 Goals: Bribery and corruption undermines the foundation of any company where it is present, and damages social and economic development. That’s why we are committed to ensuring that we continue to pride ourselves on our reputation acting fairly and ethically wherever we do business. Our reputation is built on our company values, the behavior of our employees and our collective commitment to acting with transparency throughout our organization. It is our mission to create a transparent and open working environment in which people feel able to speak freely and challenge behavior at every level, but where they can also discuss issues in confidence, where necessary. 7. Future Principles Our Ethics & Compliance programs will continue to evolve with our company’s growth strategy. Looking ahead, we will continue to work to ensure that each of our Ethics & Compliance programs is relevant to our business, is aligned with Infiniti Research’s strategic vision and provides our employees with practical tools and resources, as well as clear communications and awareness programs, to enable compliance around the world. Going forward, we will continue to maintain zero tolerance for corruption and to work against it in all its forms. 8
