UNGC Communication on Progress Sustainability Report 2014 As the world’s leading sustainability consultancy, ERM is positioned uniquely to contribute to the resolution of complex sustainability challenges. We are committed to the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) and its Ten Principles, which are instrinsic to the way we do business and our service offerings to clients. John Alexander, CEO, addressing business leaders on the evolving role of business at the WBCSD annual meeting We have published our annual Sustainability Report for fiscal year 2014 (1 April 2013 to 31 March 2014), which describes our efforts in the four key areas of human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption, and serves as our annual Communication on Progress as signatories to the UNGC. The report has been prepared in accordance with UNGC reporting guidelines and the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4 Guidelines. Human Rights Labor As a global business, we recognize our responsibility We are committed to diversity and equal opportunity in all to support and respect the protection of internationally aspects of employment. Through our policies, we prohibit proclaimed human rights, as defined by the United Nations discrimination on the basis of race, color, religion, sex, Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. sexual orientation, gender identity, age, national origin, disability, veteran status or under any category protected In addition to making this commitment across our own under the laws of communities in which we do business. business, we take the opportunity to work with our clients As part of our UNGC commitment, ERM is a signatory of across the world to improve their practices. As part of our the Women’s Empowerment Principles. service offerings, ERM has a Human Rights Working Group that focuses on providing advice to our clients on ERM supports international efforts against child and forced their human rights risks and obligations. Our social labor and has a specific policy that prohibits the use of and health consulting services teams work with clients child or forced labor or involvement by ERM with entities around the world to identify and provide advice on labor, that support prohibited labor practices, including slavery, supply chain management, land access and indigenous bonded labor or debt-bondage and other types of coercion rights issues. or corruption. The world’s leading sustainability consultancy Environment Anti-Corruption As a company and a steward for our clients, we support ERM supports governmental and societal efforts to a precautionary approach to environmental challenges, combat bribery and corruption. Our commitment, which is undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental detailed in our Code of Conduct and supporting policies, is responsibility and encourage the development of fundamental to how we operate and is embedded into our environmentally friendly technologies and products. key systems and programs. The work we do for clients provides many opportunities We have put significant effort into management systems to help reduce environmental impacts throughout the and training requirements around preventing bribery world. Our projects relate directly to critical issues such as and corruption in our global activities. Our commitment GHG emissions, waste management, water and land use against corruption is fundamental to how we operate and and biodiversity. ERM also provides both strategic and is embedded into our key systems and programs. Our technical advice to clients on understanding, managing performance in this area is driven by the involvement and and measuring product sustainability and life cycle awareness of individual employees and the leadership of impacts. every manager and Partner. About ERM: We are a global provider of environmental, health, safety, risk, sustainability and social consulting services. Sustainability describes what we do, day in and day out, within our own operations and through the services we provide to our clients. With over 150 offices in more than 40 countries and territories, we are a truly global company that provides consulting services and innovative solutions in more than 160 countries that help clients improve how they understand, manage and reduce their impacts on the world. Our clients are from a wide range of sectors including oil and gas, power, mining, manufacturing, chemical, pharmaceutical, consumer goods, legal and financial institutions, and government. Links: Discover ERM’s Sustainability Report 2014 website — www.erm.com/sustainabilityreport2014 See our performance against sustainability KPIs and targets — click here Find the location of specific disclosures — GRI Content Index and UNGC Content Index Read the report launch announcement on erm.com — click here We welcome feedback on our Sustainability Report. Please submit any questions or comments to sustainability@erm.com © Copyright 2015 by ERM Worldwide Limited and/or its affiliates (‘ERM’). All Rights Reserved. No part of this work may be reproduced or transmitted in any form or by any means, without prior written permission of ERM.
