AVAILABILITY DURABILITY FUNCTION DESIGN Corporate Social Responsibility 2014 Workwear with a point of view Nybo Workwear A/S (hereafter Nybo Workwear) is a We are constantly setting new targets for improvement, family owned company. This means that we are owned and in 2015 we will further strengthen our partnership by real people that have a daily involvement in the comwith our suppliers in Asia with the goal of enhancing repany. this has a huge impact on the way we run our sponsibility in our supply chain. business and implement our values. It is of utmost importance to us to value both responsibility and a solid About our CSR report bottom line equally. The purpose of our CSR reporting is to provide a comprehensive picture to our stakeholders on our CSR perWe work with corporate social responsibility because of formance in 2014. Our CSR report form at the same four main reasons: time the obligatory Communication on Progress (COP) 1. We believe that we must behave decently in report to UN Global Compact. relation to other people our own employees, our suppliers’ employees, our customers, their The report covers our three locations: our headquarter customers and others we meet on our way. in Viborg, Denmark and our two production facilities in 2. We believe that we must focus on our environDobele and Jelgava, Latvia. ment and nature we have a responsibility to pass it on in good condition for future generaIn order to ensure a transparent, balanced and reasontions. able presentation of our CSR performance, we are in3. We believe that decent behaviour and sound spired by general accepted reporting principles: Global business are interdependent. Reporting Initiative (www.gri.com) 4. We appreciate that many of our customers focus on CSR and place high demands on us. As we will continue our strategic and systematic work These requirements we would like to meet. with CSR, any constructive comment for further improvements are highly appreciated. Continued support to Global Compact Nybo Workwear has been supporting the UN Global Compact since 2010. Together with our core values, We hope you will enjoy reading it! these 10 principles form the basis for our holistic approach to CSR. In 2014, we have conducted a structured process aiming at integrating CSR further into our business strategy. We have looked deeper into our potential risks and iden__________________________ tified our most significant stakeholder. Furthermore, Torben Bang we have conducted a self-assessment of process and materials in order to prioritize those CSR activities that CEO, Nybo Workwear A/S create most value to both our business and the society around us. These priorities are reflected in our report. 02 csr report 2014 Company values Dynamics Credibility In order to retain a solid platform in a changeable Honesty and credibility must be our guidelines in world we want to be an innovative, dynamic, and everything we do. efficient company that inspires customers and colleagues in our industry. Quality Durable products is a key demand from our Passion customers. We must adapt the highest possible standards of quality within all our activties. With equal parts competence, persistence, and enthusiasm we wish to deliver profitable solutions for the mutual benefit of our customers and ourselves. csr report 2014 03 Purchase A trustful partnership is the key to responsible sourcing We understand purchase as all sourcing activities reWhat we said in 2014 lated to procurement and supplier management at • If we identify any failings, we will agree on a plan Nybo Workwear. of action within 6 months in order to ensure satisfactory improvements. Nybo Workwear has main suppliers of textile distributed • All European suppliers with more than 500.000 in Europe and Asia. Our European suppliers are all subDKK. must sign the FairFashion Code of Conduct ject to strict European legislation and control. We have as an integrated part of the contract with Nybo chosen to conduct an assessment of our Asian suppliWorkwear. ers in order to ensure the highest possible level of CSR. Asian suppliers with a purchase with more than Consequently, our key supplier in India holds a SA8000 100.000 DKK. are obliged to sign the FairFashion certification and in 2014 – Fair Wear. Code of Conduct as an integrated part of their contract as well as fill in the Nybo Workwear – Our focus is therefore still to cooperate with our suppliself-assessment. ers in China in order to ensure that they live up to our high standards concerning human rights, labour rights What we achieved in 2014 and environmental issues as well as quality and stable • All suppliers have conducted the Nybo delivery. Workwear self-assessment if they are not certified with SA 8000 or ISO 26000/DS49001. Policies and strategies • Our existing suppliers all live up to our high Our ambition is to do business with suppliers who standards for quality and responsibility. meet the same high standards with regards to quality, We have not had any situations where a supplier ethics, environment and security of supplies as we do has failed in our cooperation. ourselves. We only source from international recog• Our suppliers has documented that they handle nized suppliers. substances according to the REACH Directive. • In 2014 we have got 2 new suppliers which has We believe that we achieve the best results through signed the FairFashion Code of Conduct and trustful partnerships striving for improvement in reNybo Workwear – self-assesment. gards to human right, labour rights and environmental issues. Therefore, we are convinced that it is through What is next for 2015 a long-term partnership with our key suppliers that we • All European suppliers with a purchase of more achieve the best results. Regular visits in the places of than 500.000 DKK. must sign the FairFashion production guarantee observance of the agreed condiCode of Conduct as an integrated part of the tions. contract with Nybo Workwear. Nybo Workwear is a member of the trade association Asian suppliers with a purchase of more than “Danish Fashion and Textile” that has developed a re100.000 DKK. are obliged to sign the FairFashion cognized code of conduct targeting suppliers named Code of Conduct as an integrated part of their FairFashion. Our goal is to ensure that our suppliers live contract as well as fill in the Nybo Workwear – up to the standards similar to FairFashion. self-assessment. 04 csr report 2014 1 2 Product High quality in everything we do We understand “solutions” as our full assortment of and environmentally friendly solutions within products, processes, customer relations, and sales and fabrics, accessories, and finished products. marketing activities. • We will have more focus on our transport and follow our carbon footprint within this activity As a textile company our main impact on society is reour seaand air freight from Far East suppliers lated to the quality and content of the products we sell. It means that our focus is constantly on environmentally What we achieved in 2014 friendly fabrics and accessories we use in our products. • 98% of the raw material in our standard products is Oeko –Tex 100 certified. Policies and strategies 73% of our total standard products is certified Since the foundation of Nybo Workwear we have strived with EU-Ecolabel or Bluesign. towards high quality in everything we do. We believe • In 2011/12, we started to develop new Tencel that quality and responsibility are interrelated. collections. The use of Tencel instead of cotton We also believe that we have an obligation to develop clearly minimizes the use of clean water in the innovative and environmentally friendly products, entire production chain from fibre to fabric. We which will be a benefit for all involved. see an increased interest in this new material. Nybo Workwear works only with experienced and inIn 2014 we have made several new products ternational recognized sub-suppliers of raw material with Tencel in new interesting blends. for industrial washable products. All specifications of • In 2014 our use of air freight have been at a fabrics and accessories are determined and controlled unsatisfactory high level. We focus on minimizaccording to international standards regarding quality, ing airfreight, but have been forced to use airenvironmental requirements and healthy working confreight in order to avoid out-of-stock situations. ditions. A continuous follow-up takes place regarding the fulfilment of the agreed demands and arrangeWhat is next for 2015 ments. • We will continue to live up to our customers’ In our catalogues and on the web, we clearly indicate demands concerning environmental and social which certificates relate to each product. It assists our irresponsible products and processes. customers in making a responsible choice. • We will continue to contribute to new innovative and environmentally friendly solutions within fabrics, accessories, and finished products. What we said in 2014 • We will still focus on our transport and follow our • We will continue to live up to our customers’ carbon footprint within this activity our seademands concerning environmental and social and air freight from Far East suppliers. responsible products and processes. • We will continue to contribute to new innovative 06 csr report 2014 Nybo Workwear’s garments meet the following standards ISO 15797 EU-Ecolabel certified, the European environmental As one of the first in our industry, we use the internalabel, which is the guarantee of an environmentally tional test standard ISO 15797. A careful selection of friendly production. This label is awarded only to raw material guarantee that Nybo products meet the clothing, which is analyzed from cradle-to-cradle. requirements of industrial washing. They have to meet strict demands to water consumpOeko-Tex Standard 100 tion and use of chemicals. If possible, we strive to buy fabrics and accessorBluesign Standard ies that are Oeko-Tex Standard 100-certified. The A number of our products are based on fabrics, scheme is the most common labelling for textiles which have achieved certification, by Bluesign Standin the world. The system checks content of harmful ard. This ensures that production takes place with the substances in textiles, and minimize the risk of user utmost consideration for resource utilization, negatexposure to hazardous substances ive impact on air and water, health and consumer EU-Ecolabel protection. In our assortment, you will find products that are Tencel and nature TENCEL fibres are made of 100% organic eucalyptus wood, which has been harvested in a closed circuit without the influence of pesticides. The fibres are naturally clean. The production of Tencel is guaranteed free from hazardous substances and therefore the fibres are recognized as green and environmentally friendly. TENCEL fibres are the strongest among the cellulose fibres, and this particular feature makes Tencel a super partner for work wear. csr report 2014 07 Process Environmental precautions from the very beginning We perceive “process” as all the internalized activities across our own company value chain, including producWhat we said in 2014 tion, logistics, properties and utilities. • We want to continue reducing our energy consumption. Our next step is to look deeper into our future Our facility in Viborg, Denmark is home of our adminIT investment and to make energy use a parameter istration and stock. Our environmental challenges are for the future choice of IT. mainly related to our production facilities in Latvia. As • We continue to monitor and minimize our water a textile, producing company our main task is to proconsumption. The goal was to bring it back to 2011 duce high quality work wear which means that we have level. very limited environmental issues related to hazardous • Our aim is to reduce our water consumption by 5%. waste and our water consumption. What we achieved in 2014 Policies and strategies • We have succeeded to reduce our electricity conWe consider ourselves as an integrated part of our comsumption with 5,5% which is very satisfying. mon environment. In spite of our modest size and poWe have used more of the energy coming from our sition as a minor Danish player, we are determined to wind turbine and we did not have to purchase extra demonstrate our will to contribute to the preservation energy. We have invested in new IT equipment, of our environment and resources. which also is a part of the reduction. In 1980, we decided to set up a wind turbine at our facil• In our facility in Latvia, we have invested in LED light ity in Denmark and thus become self-sufficient in elecin our production, which has given less energy contricity. Our wind turbine produces 40,000 kW annually. sumption. We consume the majority internally, and the surplus we • Our water consumption has been reduced with market to the local power plant. 16,2%. This is to our full satisfaction and it achieved We continue our recycling project of paper and plastic our goals. We have made a new structure in our in cooperation with Zala Josta Ltd., which is a Latvian washing test in Latvia in 2013 and this affect the wacompany caring for a clean Latvia. We collect and sort ter consumption in a positive way. In Viborg, we are all waste: fabric, paper, cartons and plastic for recycling. less staff compared to 2013 and this also has a poOur systematic work with recycling has given us the Zala sitive effect. We keep revision on our total recycling Josta certificate, which certifies that our production site volume/ amount. “Sia Nybo Dobele” is environmentally friendly. We have • We brought 46,96 tons of material back to full recyca special focus on the end-to-end handling of cardboard ling in 2014. boxes, as this is our main packaging consumption. All boxes are sorted, cleaned, pressed and recycled. What is next for 2015 In Viborg, we sort all waste as: paper, cartons and plastic • We want to continue reducing our energy consumpand sell it for recycling. tion. • We have invested in IT equipment with lower energy consumption in beginning of 2015, which we hope will make an effect on the total use of energy. • Our aim is to reduce our water consumption by 3%. 08 csr report 2014 Environmental key figures Denmark (Viborg) Latvia (Dobele) Total Energy consumption Electricity: 2.270 kWh 206.481 kWh 208.905 kWh Wind turbine – Gas: 30.635 m3 7.560 m3 38.195 m3 energy – sold 1.101 kWh 989 kWh Water consumption 146 m3 762 m3 908 m3 Recycling 9.96 tons 37,00 tons 46,96 tons 1 2 csr report 2014 09 People Good working conditions are key to success We understand people as all activities related to man2014 in order to decrease the use of overtime. aging and developing our employees. This includes a safe and healthy working environment, leadership and compliance with Nybo Workwear ‘s Code of Conduct. What we achieved in 2014 Nybo Workwear employs 212 persons – 35 are working • Continued English language training in Latvia. at the headquarter in Denmark and 177 are working at • Continued systematic employee development our two production facilities in Latvia. dialogues for all employees in Denmark and all managers in Latvia. Policies and strategies • Continued support of staff training, including We want to offer a desirable, developing and challenaccess to free English training in Latvia. ging place of work that is able to attract and retain qual• Increased systematic documentation on health ity-minded, well-qualified and passionate employees. and safety issues in both Denmark and Latvia. In We believe that our employees are the most important Viborg we had a very low sick-leave at 1,5% in key to success. Latvia 9,0% which is a little higher than 2013. • Our intention is to work with better planning in We respect and live up to the national labour market 2014 in order to decrease the use of overtime – laws in Denmark and Latvia including minimum wages, in 2014 it was 29% lower than 2013. health and safety, working hours etc. All conditions re• Continued our cooperation with Viborg Munigarding employees are described in detail in our Handcipality to include socially vulnerable citizens book for personnel. This is handed out to all employees into our company. In 2014, we have 3 persons and kept up-dated with all new guidelines for the comemployed on special terms. pany. With this, we go further than the rather strict laws • We have made a policy for how to handle seriof labour and employee rights in Denmark and Latvia ous accidents in our company in Viborg. and we implement additional training, health insurance and personnel celebrations. What’s next for 2015 • We want continuously to focus on improvement What we said in 2014 concerning health and safety among our em• We want continuously to focus on improvement ployees. Our ambition is to grow in a responsconcerning health and safety among our emible manner with respect for the well-being of ployees. Our ambition is to grow in a responsour employees. The concern for our employees ible manner with respect for the well-being of has always been at the heart of the Nybo Workour employees. The concern for our employees wear company spirit. has always been at the heart of the Nybo Work• We want to improve our data management on wear company spirit. CSR to cover both Denmark and Latvia. • In Latvia, we have started up a new project in • We have zero tolerance when it comes to corour production, which means that the working ruption. physical working environment is cleaner, and • We will offer the employees in Denmark a folthe air contains much less textile fibers and low-up course in first aid and use of defibrillator. dust. • Our intention is to work with better planning in 010 csr report 2014 Key figures regarding employees Denmark (Viborg) Latvia (Dobele and Jelgava) Total Employees 35 177 212 Blue collar 7 151 158 White collar 28 26 54 Sick leave (%) 1,5 9,0 Injuries 0 2 2 Employee Development 35 26 71 Dialogue Employees received 17 10 27 training Employees on special 3 0 3 terms csr report 2014 011 CSR Performance at Nybo Workwear A/S Subject Objective Result Global Compact GRI Page Purchase Implementing Supplier Code of All suppliers of fabrics and Completed All principles General 4, 6,7 Conduct sewing sign supplier Code of Conduct. Number of suppliers that has All major suppliers in Completed All principles General 4, 6,7 undergone screening Asia must conduct our REACH-Directive self-assessment. All suppliers has to docuCompleted All principles 4, 6,7 ment that they live up to REACH Directive Product Development of environmental Our collection of envi 9 5 and friendly products ronmental friendly Tencel customers products from 2011/2012 shows very much interest from our customers and more collections in different blends has been launched in 2014.. Certifications: Oeko-Tex Standard 95% of our products is 98 % 9 PR3 5 100, Eco-Label, Bluesign, ISO Oeko-Tex certified 73% 15797 70% of our products is certificed with EU Eco-label/Bluesign Process Electricity consumption 3 % reduction 5,57% 7 EN3 8 Initiatives to reduce electricity Efficient use of windmill 2.270 kWh equals to 7,8 EN5 8 consumption 11,3 % Total water consumption Maintain 2011 level 16,2% reduction 7 EN8 8 Recycling 46,96 tons 7,8 EN2 8 People Diversity of workforce Blue collar: 158 1,2, 6 LA1 9 and White collar: 54 society Employee development Access to English language 10 employees 1,2 LA10 9 training – LV Access to labour unions All employees 100 % 1,2,3 LA4 9 Collective bargaining All blue collar workers 100 % LA 4 Wage level Observe and respect 100 % 1,2,3 LA4 9 national labour marked laws regarding minimum wage level Staff compensation Pensions, health insur1,2 LA3 9 ance, compensation on sick leave, pregnancy etc. Health and safety: 1. Zero injuries 1. 2 incidents during 2014 1,2 LA7 9 1. Rates of injury 2. Improve health pro2. Health insurance, 2. Health programs grams canteen, massage, . 3. Sick leave 3. Reduction of sick leaves 3. DK: 1,5 %; Latvia: 9,0 % 4. National laws on OHS 4. Observe and respect 4. 100 % national labour marked laws on OHS Number of employees on special Contribute to an inclusive 3 employees on special 1,2, 6 LA13 9 terms labour marked terms Implementation of Code of Nybo Workwear’s comCompleted All principles General 2, 9 Conduct panies in Denmark and Latvia must sign our Code of Conduct and Global Compact 012 csr report 2014 Nybo Workwear A/S in brief Company name Nybo Workwear A/S Address Industrivej 24 26 8800 Viborg DK-8800 Viborg Phone +45 8727 3000 E-mail: info@nybo.com CVR nr.: 36 74 51 18 Locations of operations Nybo Workwear A/S is headquartered in Viborg, Denmark. We have two production facilities in Latvia. The company is represented on all North European markets. Our customers consist of laundries and dealers of work wear. Number of employees 2014 212 Contact person Helle Nybo Holmberg Purchasing Manager, Part Owner +45 87273006 hnh@nybo.com About Nybo Workwear A/S Margit and Peder Nybo Jensen established Nybo Workwear A/S in 1962. The company is a family owned business. The management team consists of the next generation of the Nybo family together with Torben Bang appointed as CEO in 2012. Nybo Workwear A/S offers a broad assortment of fashionable work wear. for users within Health & Care, Gastronomy & Catering, and Light Industry. Our solutions are available through industrial laundries and dealers throughout Northern Europe. We are acknowledged purveyor to H. M. The Queen of Denmark as the only work wear supplier in Denmark. Awards and certifications DESIGN FUNCTION DURABILITY AVAILABILITY www.nybo.com | info@nybo.com | +45 87 27 30 00
