Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report 2014/2015 Delivering on our commitment towards a sustainable future CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014/2015 FACTSHEET 01/30 About this report MATERIALITY ASSESSMENT The report also serves as our Communication In 2014, we held a series of stakeholder on Progress (COP) for the United Nations roundtables during which we discussed Global Compact (UNGC). Our Water our material issues and Sustainability Plan Factsheets 18 and 19 serve as our COP-Water, commitments, updating the work that we part of our endorsement of the UNGC CEO first completed in 2011. Water Mandate. As part of this assessment, our stakeholders ONLINE asked us to highlight and explain our most www.cokecce.com: material issues. In this year’s report, we include Our corporate website includes a CRS section an overview of our six most material issues, which further details our initiatives, our CRS and explain why these particular issues matter commitments and targets, a full GRI Index and to us, and how we are responding to them. indices showing our compliance with the UNGC and its CEO Water Mandate, progress updates, These issues comprise: details of awards and events, our governance • Wellbeing structure and corporate CRS policies. • Climate Change Country reports: Each of CCE’s territories produces a Coca-Cola • Resource Scarcity system report in conjunction with The Coca-Cola • Water Company, giving local information on how CCE’s CRS commitments are being brought to life in • Sustainable Sourcing our communities. These reports can be found • Employment and Diversity online at each of the following websites: This is Coca-Cola Enterprises’ For our full Materiality Assessment, please (CCE’s) tenth annual Corporate see Factsheet 27. Great Britain: www.cokecce.co.uk Responsibility and Sustainability REPORTING BOUNDARIES AND STANDARDS France (including Monaco): (CRS) Report, providing a progress www.cokecce.fr At CCE, we have taken a value chain approach update on our Sustainability Plan in considering our most significant impacts. Belgium and Luxembourg: and replacing CCE’s 2013/2014 To this end, where stated, our value chain www.cocacolabelgium.be data goes beyond our own operations. CRS Report. For our own operations, unless otherwise The Netherlands: www.coca-colanederland.nl This report, made up of 30 indicated, data in this report covers all operations (production, sales/distribution, Norway: factsheets, is our most recent combined sales/production facilities, www.cceansvar.no CRS disclosure and contains a administrative offices and fleet) owned or Sweden: controlled by CCE, including our administrative www.cceansvar.se full year of data from January 1, offices in the Unites States and Bulgaria. 2014 to December 31, 2014 for Our carbon footprint is calculated in The Coca-Cola Company provides many our business operations covering accordance with the WRI/WBCSD Greenhouse sources of Coca-Cola system sustainability eight Western European territories Gas Protocol and we use an operational information. In particular, its website, consolidation approach to determine www.coca-colacompany.com, contains (Great Britain, France and Monaco, organizational boundaries. The water-use corporate codes and policies which inform Belgium, Luxembourg, the data in this report refers to production facilities CCE’s own approach to CRS. Netherlands, Norway and Sweden) where we have the greatest operational Its 2014/2015 Sustainability Report, water use. All financial data in this report is www.coca-colacompany.com/#sustainability, and our offices in the United States in US dollars, unless otherwise stated. This contains a summary of the global Coca-Cola and Bulgaria. Also included are report has been assured by DNV GL (see system’s sustainability work. Factsheet 29) and is in accordance with the illustrative case studies and Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4 Guidelines For further information, please contact business activities from 2015. at the Core level. The carbon footprint data of crs@cokecce.com. our core business operations has been assured For news on our sustainability by SGS Limited. initiatives and further resources, see our website www.cokecce.com. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014/2015 FACTSHEET 02/30 CEO Statement Chairman and CEO, Coca-Cola Enterprises, Inc., John F. Brock Q. It’s been four years since the Q. H  ow does the sustainability Q. W hat’s next on your sustainability launch of your Sustainability Plan agenda shape your business journey? How will you aim to meet – what has changed in the past strategy moving forward, given your new sustainability targets? few years? the pressure that the beverage A. John Brock: Our new targets will not be industry is facing? easy to achieve – but that is exactly the point. A. John Brock: Our stakeholders’ expectations of us as a business, and as an industry, have We are responding to stakeholder expectations A. Hubert Patricot: Social issues, as much significantly increased over the past few years. and challenging ourselves to improve our as environmental issues, are driving our We have assembled roundtable discussions environmental and social performance. Over sustainability agenda – including the way with stakeholders across our territories to better the coming years, we will continue our focus we report our progress and set our objectives. understand their evolving expectations. We take on reducing our energy and water usage and In particular, our updated Sustainability Plan our responsibility to continue to push ourselves enhancing our sustainable sourcing efforts. commitments and our issues reporting focus seriously, which is why we are proud to be We will continue to support and measure our were directly influenced by the stakeholder launching an updated Sustainability Plan with sustainability progress against the principles roundtables we held. Engaging with our challenging new targets. outlined in the United Nations Global Compact. stakeholders on issues that concern them will A. Hubert Patricot: The Sustainability Plan we drive improved performance, greater employee A. Hubert Patricot: We know that we need to launched in 2011 helped us drive some great engagement, and stronger connections locally. accelerate our efforts and are determined to successes. We set a target to reduce the carbon create value from collaboration and explore A. John Brock: Forward-thinking businesses footprint of our core business operations by what true sustainability leadership means in will be able to turn the societal and environmental 15 percent. In just three years, we reduced it the future. We’ll continue to review how to challenges we face into an opportunity. We are by 29 percent, and also exceeded targets for innovate further, and explore opportunities proud of our environmental successes and the reducing the carbon footprint of our cold drinks for collaboration across our value chain. revised stretch targets in our new plan, and we equipment and transportation. We know that want to make strides to become part of the we have more to do, so our new plan includes solution on obesity. Our portfolio has the largest revised targets in a number of areas. percentage of noand low-calorie beverages that it’s ever had, and we’ve now set a target to get three million people moving by 2020, in line John F. Brock Q. H  ow have you incorporated with the Coca-Cola system commitments. Chairman and CEO stakeholder concerns into Coca-Cola Enterprises, Inc. (CCE) (left) your Sustainability Plan? Q. W  hat are the trends that A. John Brock: Our stakeholders’ concerns are you see as shaping the future aligned to our key commitment areas. Issues of sustainability? such as climate change, resource scarcity and obesity are of big concern to our stakeholders; A. Hubert Patricot: I’m really inspired by the Hubert Patricot our revised targets reflect our goal to meet sustainability changes that have occurred in Executive Vice President and President, their challenges directly. However, we know the past 10 years, and now we’re beginning European Group that these issues cannot be solved by one to see the next evolution of what it means to Coca-Cola Enterprises, Inc. (CCE) (right) company alone. We need to work in partnership be a sustainable business. Taking a holistic to develop common solutions to problems, and view of defining value for both shareowners we are committed to playing our role in this. and stakeholders will be critical. A. Hubert Patricot: I believe that as stakeholder A. John Brock: The pace of change in expectations increase, all organizations need innovation and technology allows us to to work in closer partnership with each other progress even further in the future. Innovative in order to create the big changes required. and technological collaboration with other To be at the forefront of this movement, we will organizations will become increasingly continue to work with stakeholders in areas important for businesses as they seek to where we are already active; for example, create more sustainable products, packaging recycling and water replenishment, and will and services. We have partnered with seek out new partnerships in order to meet OpenIDEO to crowdsource ideas to help our goals. We see this shift as a positive improve home recycling, and have been development which will drive increased working with partners to develop ways to sustainability and performance. use 3D printing in our business. As technology and our partnerships evolve, we’ll see more innovative solutions to sustainability. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014/2015 FACTSHEET 02/30 2014 Performance Highlights PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS 2014 Wellbeing Reduced the calories per liter See Factsheets 6–8 across our portfolio by 5.4% since 2010 and engaged over 1 million people in Active Lifestyle programs. Energy and Achieved a 29 percent absolute See Factsheets 9–13 reduction in the carbon footprint Climate Change of our core business operations against our 2007 baseline. Sustainable Reduced our packaging See Factsheets 14–16 use ratio by 20 percent Packaging and against a 2007 baseline – Recycling a continued decrease from the previous year. Water Maintained our water use ratio See Factsheets 17–19 of 1.36 – a reduction of 17 Stewardship percent since 2007. Established three important water replenishment partnerships in water-stressed areas in Belgium, Great Britain and France. Sustainable 100 percent of our sugar beet See Factsheets 20–22 suppliers have agreed to adopt Sourcing our Sustainable Agriculture Guiding Principles by 2020. Workplace Achieved 25 percent female See Factsheets 23–25 representation at leadership level and 36 percent representation at management level. Hosted our first, award-winning Diversity & Inclusion Lab. Community Reached more than 130,000 See Factsheet 26 young people through local partnerships and our education programs and centers. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014/2015 FACTSHEET 03/30 Our Sustainability Plan INTRODUCTION COMMITMENT HIGHLIGHTS In September 2011, we launched our Sustainability Plan – ‘Deliver for 10% Reduce the calories per liter by 10 percent Today, Inspire for Tomorrow’. We set challenging and measurable targets which represent a significant stretch for our business. across our portfolio by 2020.1, 2 STRATEGIC PRIORITIES In 2014, we undertook a comprehensive review of our Sustainability Plan. This included 3 million Our Sustainability Plan includes three strategic priorities: a review of our progress and a series of discussions with our stakeholders. They • Deliver for Today – demonstrating best challenged us to go further, and we’ve listened. Enable three million people to be physically practice across all of our commitments. active by investing in grassroots programs As a result, we have made significant changes which support active lifestyles.1 • Lead the Industry – in areas where we believe to our Sustainability Plan, responding to we can make the biggest difference: challenges on many important topics including – Energy and Climate Change 50% carbon emissions, renewable energy, calories – Sustainable Packaging and Recycling and sustainable sourcing. • Innovate for the Future – Driving new We believe that our commitments and targets Reduction in the absolute carbon footprint opportunities for innovation, thought are feasible, but continue to represent a of our core business operations by 2020. leadership, collaboration and partnership. significant stretch for our business. We are We are proud of the progress we have made determined to meet the targets we have set, 40% and in some areas we have met our initial yet we know that continued investment, targets ahead of schedule. But we know that ongoing innovation and strong collaboration we need to go further. We have to evolve our will be critical in the years ahead. Ensure that 40 percent of the PET we targets, reflecting not just the progress that We will continue to report progress against our use is recycled PET and/or PET from we’ve made, but also to ensure that we continue targets on an annual basis in our CRS Report. renewable materials. to meet our stakeholders’ expectations. 40% Source 40 percent of our energy from SUSTAINABILITY PLAN renewable sources by 2020. Our strategic priorities 40% Aspire to have a minimum of 40 percent Deliver for today On our commitments and targets of women in both management and leadership grades by 2025. Our sustainability vision Lead the industry 100% In Energy and Climate Change and We will deliver for today, growing Sustainable Packaging and Recycling Sustainably source 100 percent of our key a low-carbon, zero-waste business, agricultural ingredients by 2020. and inspire and lead change for a more sustainable tomorrow. Innovate for the future Opportunities for innovation, collaboration and partnership CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014/15 FACTSHEET 03/30 Our Sustainability Plan — continued OUR UPDATED COMMITMENTS: Our three priorities remain the same: Deliver for today, Inspire for tomorrow, and Lead the industry. Below, we have outlined the key focus We have updated our targets across every one of our commitment areas. areas in our updated Sustainability Plan, highlighting in particular where As before, we believe these targets are feasible, but stretching – and that there has been a change. These updated targets are reported against in we can achieve the majority of them by 2020 through a continued focus on this year’s Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability Report. You will find innovation, investment and collaboration. progress against these targets on each of the relevant factsheets, and in our data tables. Our baseline year is 2007 unless otherwise stated. Energy and Climate Change Sustainable Sourcing We will reduce the carbon footprint of the drink in your hand by a We will sustainably source 100 percent of our key third by delivering carbon reductions throughout our value chain. agricultural ingredients. Target By Target By Carbon footprint Reduce the carbon footprint of the drink in your 2020 Key agricultural Sustainably source 100 percent of our key 2020 hand by a third ingredients agricultural ingredients1 Carbon footprint – Grow our business, but reduce the absolute carbon 2020 core business footprint of our core business operations by 50 percent Wellbeing Manufacturing Manufacture every liter of product with 50 percent 2020 less carbon emissions We will play our part to promote wellbeing by reducing calories across our portfolio by 10 percent and enabling three million people to be active. Transportation Deliver a case of product with 30 percent less 2020 carbon emissions Target By Cold drinks Reduce the carbon emissions from our cold 2020 Choice – calorie Reduce calories per liter across our product 2020 equipment drinks equipment by an average of 50 percent reduction portfolio by 10 percent1, 2 Renewable and Source 40 percent of our energy from renewable 2020 Choice – Offer a noor low-calorie alternative whenever Ongoing low-carbon energy or low-carbon sources availability regular sparkling drinks are available Supplier Work in partnership with our suppliers to reduce Ongoing Choice – portion Ensure that all sparkling soft drinks are available Ongoing collaboration carbon emissions across our value chain size in small portion size choices, and increase the availability of small packs Nutritional Ensure clear nutritional labeling on front of pack Ongoing Sustainable Packaging and Recycling information across all our products1 We will support the development of the circular economy, use recycled Responsible Not market any of our products to children under 12 Ongoing and renewable materials and recycle more packaging than we use. marketing and not sell our products in primary schools1 Target By Active lifestyles Enable three million people to be physically active Ongoing by investing in grassroots programs which support Lightweighting Reduce by 25 percent the amount of material 2020 active lifestyles1 we use across all packaging formats Recycled materials Include recycled aluminum, glass and steel Ongoing in respective packaging formats Community PET bottles Ensure that 40 percent of the PET we use is recycled 2020 We will make a positive difference in our communities, work with PET and/or PET from renewable materials local partners and support the active involvement of our employees. Recyclability Continue to ensure that 100 percent of cans Annual Target By and bottles are fully recyclable Social investment Invest 1 percent of our annual pre-tax profit to Annual Support the development of infrastructure and 2025 support charitable and community partners and technology to enable recycling of all other make a positive difference in the communities packaging materials in which we operate Manufacturing Send zero waste to landfill from our own Annual Employee Support the active involvement of our employees Ongoing manufacturing operations volunteering by encouraging them to volunteer Recycling Recycle more packaging than we use, by 2020 Supporting young Support the skills development and learning 2020 championing improvements to collection people needs of 250,000 young people each year schemes and supporting the recycling industry Inspiring Increase packaging recovery rates by using Ongoing consumers our brands to educate and inspire consumers Workplace to recycle more often We will attract, develop and motivate a highly talented and Packaging Support the wider packaging industry to explore Ongoing diverse workforce within a safe and healthy workplace. innovation next-generation packaging1 Target By Employee Encourage participation in our employee 2020 Water wellbeing wellbeing programs so that at least 50 percent of our employees take part We will minimize water impacts in our value chain, establish a water sustainable operation and set the standard for water efficiency. Workplace safety Provide a safe and healthy work environment 2020 with a vision of achieving zero accidents and Target By attaining world-class health and safety status Protect Protect the future sustainability of the water sources 2020 Workplace diversity Attract, develop and motivate a highly talented Ongoing we use and safely return to nature 100 percent of the and diverse workforce wastewater from our manufacturing operations Aspire to have a minimum 40 percent of women 2025 Reduce Reduce the amount of water we use, aiming to 2020 in both management and leadership grades manufacture every liter of product using an average 1.2 liters of water Replenish Return to nature the water used in our beverages, 2020 where it is sourced from areas of water stress by investing in community-based water programs1 Value chain Minimize water impacts in our value chain through 2020 our sustainable sourcing programs 1 In partnership with The Coca-Cola Company. 2 Against a 2010 baseline. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014/15 FACTSHEET 04/30 Our Business WHAT WE DO incorporated and headquartered in the HIGHLIGHTS 2014 At CCE, we manufacture and distribute over United States and publicly traded on the 40 of the most popular beverage brands in the New York Stock Exchange and the NYSE 170 million world. These include Coca-Cola, Coca-Cola Life, Euronext in Paris under the symbol, CCE. Diet Coke, Coca-Cola Light, Coca-Cola Zero, Our business makes a significant economic Fanta and Sprite1 as well as a growing range contribution to the countries and communities people served across eight territories in in which we operate. At the end of 2014, we Western Europe. Coca-Cola Enterprises (CCE) of water, juices and juice drinks, sports drinks, energy drinks and ready-to-drink teas. employed approximately 11,6502 people, paying is one of the world’s largest independent salaries and benefits of $1 billion. We also paid bottlers of Coca-Cola beverages. In 2014, we sold approximately 12 billion bottles $1.4 billion in total taxes.3 An independent and cans (or 600 million physical cases) through evaluation concluded that in Great Britain each more than one million retail customers across 17 manufacturing job provided by Coca-Cola supports a further our territories, generating approximately eight jobs, and that for every £1 of value CCE $8.2 billion in revenue and $1.019 billion in creates, an additional £8 is generated. operations operating income. We are a public company, We operate 17 manufacturing operations facilities in Western Europe. 40 beverage brands manufactured and distributed. OUR PRODUCT PORTFOLIO AS SOLD BY VOLUME E nergy drinks, sports and functional waters, water, Key ready-to-drink teas e.g. Regular sparkling 58% 12 billion soft drinks  oand low-calorie N 27% sparkling soft drinks bottles and cans sold. 100 percent juice 1% Juice drinks 7% Energy drinks 2% Sports and 1% functional waters Juice drinks e.g. Water 3% Ready-to-drink teas 1% and other 100 percent juice e.g. Regular sparkling soft drinks e.g. Noand low-calorie sparkling soft drinks e.g. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014/15 FACTSHEET 04/30 Our Business — continued OUR OPERATIONS AT A GLANCE We operate in Great Britain, France, Monaco, Belgium, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Norway and Sweden, have offices in the United States and Bulgaria and employ approximately 11,6502 people. WHERE WE OPERATE COCA-COLA ENTERPRISES KEY STATISTICS 2014 Water use ratio Manufacturing Carbon footprint (liters to make Territory Employees2, 4 sites (tonnes CO2e) 1 liter product) Belgium & Luxembourg 2,400 3 78,142 1.57 France5 2,650 5 88,580 1.22 Great Britain6 3800 6 337,474 1.29 Key Netherlands 800 1 91, 783 1.65 CCE European Headquarters Norway 7 700 1 5,756 1.34 Country head offices Bottling plants Sweden 800 1 11, 911 1.80 US Headquarters Atlanta, Georgia USA 150 0 4,367 n/a Bulgaria Bulgaria 250 0 443 n/a Shared service center TOTAL 11,6502 17 618,984 1.36 A STRONG PARTNERSHIP The Coca-Cola Company is our primary strategic partner. While beverages owned by The Coca-Cola Company and its affiliates represent more than 90 percent of our volume, we also distribute brands for other franchise partners, including Capri Sun. Our people People 11,650 130,600 2 employees employees Our operations Operations 8 200 countries and territories in Western Europe countries worldwide Our customer focus – B2B Consumer focus Bottler; distributer; market Brand ownership; product execution and innovation; development and innovation; community and customer brand marketing and brand marketing advertising 1 Coca-Cola, Coke, Coca-Cola Zero, Coke Zero, Coca-Cola Life, Coke Life, Coca-Cola Light, Diet Coke, Fanta and Sprite, and the design of the Coca-Cola Contour Bottle are registered trademarks of The Coca-Cola Company. 2 As quoted in our 2014 10-K and Annual Report. 3 Reduction in amount paid in USD vs 2013 is due to foreign currency exchange fluctuations, which are noted in our 2014 10-K and Annual Report. 4 Rounded to nearest 50 employees (country employee figures do not include occasional workers in Norway and Sweden nor Belgian pre-pensioners. 5 Including Monaco. 6 Great Britain is our largest market and has carbon-intense electricity. 7 Our Carbon Footprint in Norway: In April 2013 we completed a business transformation project in Norway which included a move to recyclable and non-refillable PET bottles and a significant change to our route to market operations. This has resulted in a significant change in emissions across our Norwegian value chain, only part of which is included within the boundaries of this carbon footprint. Additional emissions occur within our wider value chain, which we report on as part of our ‘Drink in your hand’ value chain commitment. We no longer operate a direct store delivery model and have eliminated the road kilometers associated with the collection and return of refillable packaging. Instead, our customers now collect finished product directly from CCE’s factory in Oslo for onward distribution. Any emissions associated with our customers’ transportation are outside of our operational control and are therefore not included in our carbon footprint. We will continue to review the carbon impact of this change across our value chain in the future. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014/15 FACTSHEET 04/30 Our Value Chain Our Value Chain Our business has environmental and social impacts in your hand by a third by 2020, and minimizing water across the life cycle of our products – from the sourcing impacts in our value chain. However, our biggest impact and use of raw materials and ingredients, to the lies beyond our business operations – so we must manufacturing of our products, through to their disposal. collaborate with our suppliers, customers and other We are committed to reducing our impact across the stakeholders to make a real reduction in our impact. value chain – reducing the carbon footprint of the drink Supply chain Customers and consumers Ingredients: The majority of our Packaging: 50 percent of the We are working to increase recycling water impact and 18 percent of our carbon footprint of our value chain rates across our territories. This will carbon impact comes from our comes from our packaging, which help us to generate more material ingredients. Approximately 95 is also a large contributor to our to turn into new bottles and cans. water footprint. Our packaging percent of our products are made The carbon footprint related to materials come from a range of key from concentrates and syrups the recycling of our packaging is suppliers with whom we work in supplied by our brand owners. The order to reduce the impacts of our incorporated into the carbon footprint rest are finished products that we packaging materials. of our packaging.9 distribute. We buy sugar, juices, mineral waters and carbon dioxide to make our products (low-calorie CU sweeteners are already contained ST O in the concentrates). M 8 E N RS AI CH AN Packaging9 Recycling D LY PP 50% C O 2e CO SU We will reduce the carbon NS se 10 footprint of the drink in your te r u hand by a third by delivering UM a carbon reductions throughout ERS W our value C0 e chain. 2 down by Customers 99% 1/3 and consumers Ingredients Our impact throughout the value chain 18% 1% Core business operations Our core business operations are made up of our manufacturing Our operations, transportation and 8% direct impact distribution and cold drink equipment 18% – in total making up 32 percent of 6% our value chain carbon footprint. Although water is our primary Distribution ingredient, our core business Manufacturing operations account for only 1 percent Refrigeration of our overall water footprint. We work to reduce our impact as CO NS much as possible through minimizing RE B U S I N E S S O P E R AT I O 8 We have modeled emissions for ingredients and packaging using industry average our water usage in our manufacturing conversion factors linked to our procurement data for each raw material. operations, and through collaboration 9 As a result of carbon footprint methodologies. with our key suppliers. 10 Based upon multiple water footprinting programs since 2011. See Factsheet 19. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014/2015 FACTSHEET 05/30 Innovate for the Future Laura Storm, Sustainia, presenting at our second Future for Sustainability Summit. INTRODUCTION HIGHLIGHTS 2014 Innovation will be critical if we are to meet the targets in our Sustainability Summit Plan. We know that tackling the size and scale of the issues in our value chain will require collaboration, and that we will need to accelerate the We hosted our ‘Future for Sustainability Summit’ in partnership with the Financial Times. pace of change. We cannot do this alone and will need to work with stakeholders to develop innovative new solutions to shared problems. Profit and Purpose Although we have made strong steps over the past few years, we know that we have a long way to go on our sustainability journey. CCE commissioned Cranfield University to explore how business can successfully combine profit and purpose. Eight winners of the OpenIDEO Recycling Challenge crowdsourcing initiative, aimed at generating ideas to improve home recycling rates. Speakers at our Future for Sustainability Summit. OUR STRATEGY We are focused on collaborating with others to develop innovative solutions which will benefit ourselves, our industry and broader society. We will do this through: • Thought leadership to explore and develop solutions to new issues and challenges. • Collaboration and engagement with suppliers, customers and other stakeholders to drive innovation and unlock new ideas and opportunities. • Accelerating the pace of change by developing and harnessing innovation and technology. THOUGHT LEADERSHIP academic and not-for profit world. It included Sustainability summit representatives from The Haga Initiative, In October 2014, we hosted our ‘Future for Climate Change Capital, l’Institut de lèconomie Sustainability Summit’ in partnership with the Circulaire, Sainsbury’s, Green Alliance, Sustainia Financial Times, in order to generate a dialogue and Cranfield University. around the future of business. The Summit The Summit explored various themes including brought together over 250 delegates from the business case for tackling natural resource diverse backgrounds to explore how business scarcity and environmental challenges at a can redefine value beyond financial metrics, as boardroom level, the importance of engaging well as to examine sustainability strategies and the financial community in developing a new trends that are shaping future business models. definition of business value, and the challenge We hosted a number of influential business of integrating sustainability into product design. professionals, entrepreneurs and academics, In 2015, we plan to host a series of stakeholder including members of the World Economic roundtables, which will provide the opportunity Forum’s Global Shapers program. The speaker for a more in-depth discussion with key line-up provided insights from a range of stakeholders on a range of topics covering our backgrounds including the financial, corporate, key issues. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014/2015 FACTSHEET 05/30 Innovate for the Future — continued Combining profit and purpose: a new dialogue on the role of business in society CASE STUDY One of the key themes at the Summit was the OpenIDEO important role that businesses have to play Our recent online partnership with open innovation in combining profit and purpose – being clear platform OpenIDEO.com allowed us to answer the question, that to be successful, companies need to ensure ‘How might we establish better recycling habits at home?’ that profit and social purpose are fully complementary. Businesses today face For three months, members of the online OpenIDEO significant pressure to deliver value beyond community submitted creative ideas to address the a return for investors. They must generate a challenge and inspire behavior change on recycling. Many profit while also addressing significant social of the ideas were tested and prototyped during this period and environmental challenges. We wanted to with over 320 contributions received during an initial research better understand whether today’s business phase and over 200 ideas submitted for consideration by leaders and those of the future think that the the OpenIDEO community and a panel of recycling experts. Twenty-five ideas were then reviewed business community is currently doing enough against a set of evaluation criteria with eight selected as the best winning ideas. to address global sustainability challenges We are currently working to further develop one of these ideas, a mobile phone app to help and to combine ‘profit’ and ‘purpose’. We people understand what materials are recyclable where they live. This is being done in commissioned the Doughty Centre for Corporate partnership with WRAP, the UK Government’s recycling agency. Responsibility at Cranfield University, with support from FT Remark and Net Impact, to further explore this topic with current and future Baljinder Bansal business leaders – including the millennial Associate Director, generation. Results revealed a strong alignment IT Innovation on the topic of ‘profit and purpose’ with 90 percent of future leaders and 88 percent of current leaders believing that business should have a social purpose. However, only one in five future business leaders thinks companies already have a clear focus on social purpose, compared with four in five current CEOs. This EMPLOYEE SPOTLIGHT — The innovation process suggests that business either isn’t doing enough Within our Information Technology (I.T.) department we have adapted the Lean Startup to address global sustainability challenges, methodology to support our innovation process, enabling ideas to be generated and developed or isn’t communicating its achievements to a quickly and cost-effectively. Colleagues are able to access our Ideation Platform, either from global audience. their laptop or via a mobile phone app, where they can post an idea. If their idea receives The research was launched at our ‘Future enough ‘likes’, it’s developed into a proof of concept, and presented to senior management for for Sustainability Summit’ in partnership with a decision on future investment. We have learned equally from our successes and our failures, the Financial Times. and are building these insights into our processes. We have been trialing the use of a 3D printer within our business, as well as the use of beacon messaging. The idea generation process has BUSINESSES HAVE A CLEAR SOCIAL PURPOSE also started to expand to other areas of our business such as with our Field Sales teams in Great Britain. I’m very excited to see what innovative ideas will be developed. Nearly COLLABORATION AND ENGAGEMENT We are also working closely with The Coca-Cola Our Sustainability Plan commitments cover our Company to develop our approach to entire value chain – and we know that in order sustainable agriculture and to ensure that by to achieve our goals we will need to look outside 2020 the global Coca-Cola system sources its 9/ 10 our own operations and collaborate with all key agricultural ingredients sustainably. As each of our stakeholders. For this reason, we have supply chain for each commodity is different and developed many key partnerships over the complex, we are developing partnerships with past few years. our suppliers and with third-party organizations like the Rainforest Alliance and the Sustainable Following research by the University of Exeter Agriculture Initiative to define what we need to in 2014, which helped us understand recycling do to sustainably source our ingredients. For behavior in the home, we entered a new current leaders agree partnership with OpenIDEO as part of our more information see Factsheet 21. ‘Recycle for the Future’ program. Together, we ACCELERATING THE PACE OF CHANGE launched a recycling challenge to crowdsource In order to address the sustainability challenges However only ideas on how to promote recycling in the home we face, it is important that we accelerate (see case study). the pace of change. We will achieve this by Partnerships with our retail customers have increasing our use of new technology and been very important in helping to improve forging new partnerships with our stakeholders. consumer recycling behavior. During 2014, Our joint business venture with APPE has helped 2 / 10 we increased our partnerships with retailers us to create a step-change in recycling and and held campaigns to encourage shoppers support our commitment to reduce the carbon to recycle across Great Britain, France and footprint of the drink in your hand by a third by Belgium (see Factsheet 16). 2020. We have invested over $12 million to We also work closely with our suppliers create a state of the art recycling plant, Infineo, to encourage them to improve their own which produces enough high-quality recycled sustainability. Our Supplier Relationship PET (rPET) to cover our requirements in France, future leaders agree Management (SRM) process helps us to Belgium and Luxembourg. As a result, at the collaborate with suppliers and provides a end of 2014, we were able to include an management framework whereby each average of 34 percent rPET in our packaging supplier is evaluated on their sustainability (see Factsheet 15). performance (see Factsheet 22). CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014/2015 ISSUE SHEET 06/30 Issue sheet: Wellbeing How can we be part of the solution to the challenge of obesity? ISSUE INSIGHTS “Efforts to encourage even small increases in activity in inactive individuals may be 10% The World Health Organization recommends of public benefit.” Ekelund et al, American Journal of Clinical Nutrition4 that added sugars should be less than 10 percent of total calorie intake.1 World Health Organisation 1.9 billion In 2014, more than 1.9 billion adults were overweight (600 million of these were obese).2 World Health Organisation Doubled Worldwide obesity rates have more than doubled since 1980.3 World Health Organisation Obesity is a complex challenge Obesity and inactivity combined have a profound impact on public health, on the with a significant cost to economy and ultimately on the happiness both society and individuals. of society as a whole. OUR COMMITMENT Worldwide, over 600 million It will require multiple stakeholders across adults and 42 million children industry, government and civil society to work We will play our part to under the age of five were together to change behavior and support and inspire people to become more active. promote wellbeing by classed as overweight or obese As a major manufacturer within the food and in 2013.5 In Europe, 50 percent of beverage industry, we understand the role that reducing calories across people are overweight or obese diet, including our products, can have on health our portfolio by 10 percent and two-thirds are not meeting and wellbeing. We know that we need to be part of the debate, and part of the solution on and enabling 3 million recommended levels of physical this issue. We have worked over the past years activity.6 We know that diet and to increase the number of noor low-calorie people to be active calorie intake, including the beverages in every market, and increase the range of portion sizes. However, we know that by 2020.7 calories in our products, can we need to go further, and have recently set have a big impact on health new commitments to reduce the calories and wellbeing and we want per liter across our portfolio by 10 percent by 2020.7, 10 We also aim to get three million people to be part of the solution. physically active by 2020, through supporting community-based physical activity programs.7 Solving a complex global challenge like obesity can’t be done by any one organization in isolation. We will continue to work in conjunction with partners in government, industry and civil society to continue to make significant progress on this issue. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014/2015 ISSUE SHEET 06/30 Wellbeing — continued Hubert Patricot Mark Driscoll Executive Vice President and President, European Group, Head of Food, Coca-Cola Enterprises Forum for the Future A VIEW FROM COCA-COLA ENTERPRISES A VIEW FROM FORUM FOR Obesity is a serious and complex issue, and an important one for our business. According to THE FUTURE the World Health Organization, 50 percent of people in Europe are overweight or obese, and Obesity, food security, inequality and resource two-thirds are not meeting recommended levels of physical activity.7, 8 As European President, scarcity are among the biggest challenges I also know from my conversations with customers, colleagues and business partners that this society faces today. The need to provide issue is high on our shared agenda. everyone with access to healthy and nutritious As a business, we have a role to play in addressing obesity. Our wellbeing commitments will food within environmental limits has to be one reduce the calories per liter across our portfolio by 10 percent7, 10 and enable three million people of the key imperatives of our time. In 2013 to become physically active by 2020.7 around 62.1 percent of adults were overweight We offer our consumers a choice – whether among low-, midor no-sugar products, or through or obese in the UK. The costs associated with a range of pack sizes – and we are always exploring opportunities to expand the portfolio of dealing with obesity are now estimated at products that we offer. Recent examples include Finley, a low-calorie fruit-based sparkling drink more than £5 billion per year. in France, and SmartWater, available in Great Britain. At Forum for the Future, we believe it is crucial We will also continue to collaborate with The Coca-Cola Company to use innovative that the global food and drinks industry and sweeteners to create further choice for consumers. We recently launched Coca-Cola Life, businesses such as Coca-Cola Enterprises give made with 30 percent less sugar than a regular Coca-Cola and partially sweetened by Stevia, more attention to what we call ‘sustainable a natural sweetener which comes from the stevia plant. nutrition’. This will enable all of us to tackle urgent challenges like obesity. If businesses In addition, we will provide consumers with the information they need on how much sugar don’t, then governments and consumer groups and how many calories are in our beverages. I am confident that these steps will help the are likely to demand more regulatory action. people who buy our products make the right choices for themselves and their families. Tackling these challenges requires We are addressing the issue of sedentary lifestyles by working with our local communities collaboration across the food value chain. to encourage people to become more active. Programs like ParkLives, which provides free Coca-Cola Enterprises will need to work with outdoor sporting activities in Great Britain, and Olympic Moves, an annual school sports others – businesses, NGOs, the academic competition in the Netherlands and in Belgium from 2015 are examples of how we have community and governments – to solve these encouraged young people and families into sport over the past year – and we want to go issues. Difficult choices may be required. For even further in the years ahead. instance, we must ask, ‘should certain products My job is to ensure that we grow our business sustainably and responsibly. To do so, we must be on the shelves at all?’ We believe that work with our consumers and civil society to ensure we address the issue of obesity together. Coca-Cola and other brands have a We are on a journey in this area, and I am confident that our new wellbeing commitments are responsibility to encourage and promote more a significant step in the right direction. healthy and sustainable eating patterns to their customers. This is where real leadership lies. 1 World Health Organization 2 World Health Organization 3 World Health Organization 4 Ekelund, U et al 5 World Health Organization 6 World Health Organization 7 In partnership with The Coca-Cola Company 8 World Health Organization 9 World Health Organization 10 Against a 2010 baseline CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014/2015 FACTSHEET 07/30 Wellbeing: Product Portfolio OUR COMMITMENT HIGHLIGHTS 2014 We will reduce calories per liter across our portfolio of beverages 5.4% reduction in the calories per liter across our by 10 percent by 2020.3, 4 INTRODUCTION product portfolio since 2010. As a manufacturer in the food and beverage industry, we understand the role that diet, including our products, can have on health and 56% of our full sugar brands have a noor wellbeing. We believe all calories count, and are committed to playing our part to help address obesity. low-calorie alternative.1 NO-/LOW-CALORIES OUR STRATEGY 32% Calorie commitments We believe choice and information are We have set a new commitment as part of important for consumers to be able to make our revised Sustainability Plan, to reduce the of the volume of our products in our portfolio are the right decisions for them and their families. calories per liter across our portfolio of noand low-calorie (40 calories/250ml).2 We also believe that it is critical to get more beverages by 10 percent by 2020.3, 4 As of 2014, people active in our communities. By we have reduced the calories in our portfolio providing a wide variety of products, driving 99% by 5.4 percent. awareness of our noor low-calorie options, and by supporting programs which get In line with this new commitment, we have also of our products have front-of-pack GDA labeling. people in our communities moving, we are developed targets within some of the individual working to be part of the solution to obesity. countries in which we operate. For example, the Coca-Cola system in Great Britain was one of Our wellbeing strategy has four key priorities: the first companies to sign up to the UK SUSTAINABILITY PLAN • No-/low-calories – We have taken steps to Government’s Responsibility Deal in 2011, and COMMITMENTS broaden the choice of drinks we offer and has voluntarily supported its calorie reduction provide a variety of full, noand low-calorie initiative since 2012. This led to a commitment to options, in a wide range of packaging and reduce the calories in some of our leading soft Calorie reduction portion sizes. We will also drive awareness of these lower-calorie options. drinks by at least 30 percent and reduce the average calories per liter of our sparkling drinks Reduce calories by 10 percent per liter across our • Nutrition information – We aim to be clear by 5 percent by the end of 2014. Thus far, we product portfolio by 2020.3, 4 and transparent in our labeling, ensuring have reduced the calories in our portfolio in clear front-of-pack Guideline Daily Amount Great Britain by 5.3 percent since 2012, and No-, low-calorie (GDA) labeling on all of our packages, so that people can easily see how many aim to reduce by a further 5 percent by 2025. In France, in conjunction with our soft drinks Offer a noor low-calorie alternative whenever calories they are consuming. association, we signed a collective charter regular sparkling soft drinks are available. • Responsible marketing – We will market with the French Ministry of Agriculture and responsibly across all channels where we Consumption to reduce the amount of calories Small packs sell our products. We will never market any of our products to children under 12. by 5 percent in the Soft Drinks category in France by 2015. In the Netherlands, in conjunction with The Coca-Cola Company, we Ensure that all sparkling soft drinks are available • Active lifestyles – We aim to get three million in small portion size choices, and increase the people moving by 2020, by supporting have developed a commitment to reduce the availability of small packs. community based physical activity programs calories in our portfolio by 10 percent between across our countries of operation.3 2012 and 2020. Labeling This factsheet focuses on the efforts we have made to adapt our product portfolio to CHOICE We want to encourage choice within our Ensure clear nutritional labeling on front of provide a choice for our customers, and to portfolio, and have set new commitments which pack across all our products.3 ensure that our marketing and labeling aim to offer a noor low-calorie alternative every continues to be responsible and time a regular sparkling soft drink is available. transparent. For more information on our Under 12 work to encourage active lifestyles, see Factsheet 8. Our product portfolio is already made up of a wide variety of products. These cover regular, We will not market any of our products to noand low-calorie options – including our core children under 12 and will not sell our products sparkling beverages such as Coca-Cola, Fanta in primary schools.3 and Sprite – which make up 58 percent of our CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014/2015 FACTSHEET 07/30 Wellbeing: Product Portfolio — continued portfolio. Fifty-six percent of our full sugar NUTRITION INFORMATION sparkling soft drinks have a noor low-calorie We believe in the importance of helping people CASE STUDY alternative such as Diet Coke and Coke Zero.1 understand what is in our products so that Coca-Cola Life Noand low-calorie sparkling soft drinks make they can make the right choices for their lifestyle. up 27 percent of our total portfolio. The rest of our portfolio consists of non-sparkling drinks We have long been committed to providing including waters, juices, sports drinks, functional clear and transparent nutritional labeling so waters and energy drinks. that people can make informed choices about the products they buy and consume. We have In addition, we have been working to reduce voluntarily included ingredients and nutrition the sugar and calories in our portfolio through information on the labeling of all our products reformulation, reducing the sugar and calories since 2003. In 2007, we led the development of in our beverages by up to 30 percent. In 2014, Guideline Daily Amount (GDA) labeling across our reformulations included Fanta Fruit Twist In 2014, Coca-Cola introduced Coca-Cola Life Europe and in 2013 we committed to move to the in Great Britain and Sweden. This lower and Dr Pepper in Great Britain, Monster in EU Reference Intakes (RI) label. In Great Britain, France, and Nestea in Norway. calorie cola contains a third less sugar and we signed up to the UK Government’s voluntary, a third fewer calories than regular cola.5 It Package and portion sizes color-coded, front-of-pack nutrition labeling features a blend of sugar and naturallyWe aim to ensure that all of our regular calorie scheme in 2014 – with the new labels starting sourced stevia leaf extract and a 330ml drinks are available in small portion sizes of to appear on Coca-Cola products in early 2015. can contains 89 calories. In 2015 Coca-Cola 250ml or less, and to increase the availability We take advice from local and European Life was expanded to the remainder of of small pack sizes. In 2014, 19 percent of our Scientific Advisory Councils and make no health our territories. regular calorie drinks were available in portion claims unless these are scientifically proven. sizes of 250ml or less. We introduced the Information about our products is also available As part of a global Coca-Cola policy and 250ml can in Great Britain, France, Belgium, through the websites, care lines and consumer through UNESDA, we have committed not to Luxembourg and Sweden in 2013. We have also information centers operated in all the countries undertake direct commercial activity in primary limited our cup sizes for fountain beverages in where we do business. We also provide extra schools unless requested by school authorities France and Belgium, where we no longer sell information about ingredients on pack labels or parents. Although each country in which we branded cups larger than 500ml in restaurants, to help consumers make the right personal operate has different policies on the distribution leisure parks and most cinemas. choices. For example, our energy drinks carry of our products in secondary schools, our Availability and promotions a statement indicating that they are not suitable commitments can be summarized as follows: Within some of our territories, we have set specific for children and pregnant and breast-feeding • To ensure that a full range of beverages commitments regarding our marketing spend. In women, specific groups for whom caffeine is (including waters, juices and lower, noGreat Britain we have set a commitment to more not recommended. and low-calorie products) is available in than double our media investment in our noand Public campaigns appropriate portion control sizes. low-calorie variants of Coca-Cola. More recently, we have been working with • Non-branded vending: to include educational We have also been working to develop Public Health England, as part of its Change4Life images and messages on vending machines guidelines for our sales teams, to encourage campaign, to create marketing campaigns to promote balanced diets and to respect the the sale of noand low-calorie beverages. For which will encourage consumers to try noand commercial-free character of schools. example, we have developed guidelines to low-calorie alternatives, such as Coca-Cola make our noand low-calorie beverages most Zero, through vouchers, print-ads and in-store • Third-party distributors: to ensure that those prominent in any meal deal or snack promotion. point-of-sale promotions with retailers. responsible for the final distribution of our products to schools are aware of these RESPONSIBLE MARKETING commitments. CASE STUDY No marketing to children under 12 We have also signed the UNESDA initiative to Finley We respect the role of parents and guardians ensure that energy drinks are not marketed to and believe that they should be able to choose under-16s. For more information see further the drinks that are right for their children. Since reading below. 2009, one of our core global commitments has Our products and alcohol been that we will not market to children under We recognize that adult consumers may choose the age of 12. to drink our products in conjunction with alcohol, Through UNESDA, the European trade but actively support our products as a refreshing association representing the soft drinks industry, alcohol alternative. For the past seven years, we have committed not to advertise in printed we have worked in conjunction with the THINK! In April 2014, we launched FINLEY, a new media, on websites or during broadcast driver friendly program in Great Britain to offer fruit-based sparkling drink to French programs specifically aimed at children. As a free second drink during Christmas when consumers. The low-calorie drink for adults is a result, we do not advertise or market any of ordering a Coca-Cola, Diet Coke, Coca-Cola available in four different flavors: Grapefruit our products directly to children under 12. This Zero and Schweppes product. In 2014, this & Blood Orange; Lemon & Elder Blossom; means that our advertisements are never program was supported by 12,500 bars and Orange & Cranberry; and Tonic. The drink shown during children’s programing and we pubs across the country. includes fruit juice, natural aromas, natural do not undertake promotional activities aimed Further reading: sweeteners and no added preservatives and at children under 12. We never provide free The Coca-Cola Company Global Responsible is 20 calories per 100ml serving. The launch is samples to children under 12 unless an adult Marketing Policy an important step in CCE’s diversification or carer is present. The Coca-Cola Company Global School strategy aimed at meeting greater consumer At CCE, we recognize the growing use of digital Beverage Guidelines needs as well as increasing our low-calorie and internet communications by children and beverage portfolio. In 2015 we have since support The Coca-Cola Company’s policies for The Coca-Cola Company Responsible expanded Finley to Belgium and Sweden. responsible marketing of our products on the Marketing Charter, Great Britain internet and via digital media. Our internet sites, UNESDA Commitments to Act Responsibly 1 This includes all CCE’s full sugar brands, excluding waters and hot drinks. content and related technologies are designed UNESDA Code for Energy Drinks and Shots Our most popular brands (Coca-Cola, Fanta, Sprite) all have low-calorie alternatives and together these make up 90 percent of CCE’s volume. for visitors aged 12 or above, and we use features Coca-Cola Great Britain: Choice and 2 Measured using unit cases. and elements on our websites that appeal 3 In partnership with The Coca-Cola Company. Information 4 Against a 2010 baseline. predominantly to visitors over the age of 12. 5 36 percent fewer calories vs full sugared colas in Great Britain due to a sugar reduction of 37 percent, involving reformulation with stevia leaf extract. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014/2015 FACTSHEET 08/30 Wellbeing: Active Lifestyles OUR COMMITMENT HIGHLIGHTS 2014 We will enable three million people to be physically active by investing 1 million+ Over 1 million people engaged in active in grassroots programs which support active lifestyles by 2020.1 INTRODUCTION lifestyle programs. We are aware that physical inactivity is a significant problem across Europe, and we want to play our role in encouraging active lifestyles. SUSTAINABILITY PLAN This is one of the reasons we are investing in community-based physical COMMITMENT activity programs across our countries of operation. 3 million Enable three million people to be physically ENCOURAGING ACTIVE LIFESTYLES IN 2014 6,300 Norway 27,000 active by investing in grassroots programs which support active lifestyles by 2020.1 150,000 Sweden Great Britain Cityride Norway 150,000 Netherlands Special Olympics – ParkLives Swimming Federation Great Britain Belgium, Great Britain, Sweden the Netherlands 23,000 Belgium 700,000 France Le Sport Ça Me Dit France The Coca-Cola Company to support communityOUR STRATEGY In Europe, the based physical activity programs across our We believe that along with providing a countries of operation. Coca-Cola system has balanced portfolio that offers choice for set a goal to get We have at least one major physical activity consumers, we have a role to play in getting program in every country where we operate. more people active in their communities. 10 million In 2014, these included: The Active lifestyle component of our Special Olympics Wellbeing commitment aims to enable three We have a long-standing partnership with Europeans moving million people to be physically active by 2020, through investing in grassroots programs Special Olympics, the world’s biggest sports charity for children and adults with intellectual which support active lifestyles.1 by 2020, through various disabilities, giving them the chance to get active, We have a number of established programs learn new skills and build their confidence initiatives and local sports throughout our territories, and these are through sport. programs. covered in this factsheet. As we make The Coca-Cola Company has sponsored the progress towards this commitment, we will Special Olympics for 36 years and CCE is proud look to expand these programs and develop to add its support. Our partnership began in new partnerships. Belgium in 1990 and extended to Great Britain For more information on the Product Portfolio in 2010. Further partnerships were formed in element of our Wellbeing commitment, please 2013 in France and the Netherlands. In 2014, see Factsheet 7. we supported a variety of events in each of our territories, in particular the European Summer ACTIVE LIFESTYLES Games in Antwerp, Belgium (see case study). At CCE, we have set a new commitment to get three million people moving by 2020.1 As part of this commitment, we have developed long-standing partnerships in conjunction with CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014/2015 FACTSHEET 08/30 Wellbeing: Active Lifestyles — continued StreetGames, Great Britain CASE STUDY With The Coca-Cola Company, Great Britain, we Monique Maks support StreetGames, a UK charity focused on Special Olympics European Director of making a wide range of sports and dance more Summer Games Jeugdsportfonds, accessible for young people in disadvantaged Netherlands communities. The program includes improved coaching, a greater choice of local activities, sports festivals and training with high profile sportsmen and women. In 2014, we helped StreetGames hold four multi-sport festivals in London, Manchester, Cardiff and Glasgow. Each event involved more than 1,000 young EXTERNAL SPOTLIGHT people for a day of sport, music and learning Jeugdsportfonds In September 2014, we were proud to support skills. In 2014, StreetGames was also the major Taking part in sport with others is one of the Special Olympics European Summer beneficiary of Coca-Cola’s FIFA™ World Cup the best things there is. Sport helps to build Games. Held over five days at various venues on-pack promotion, raising a further $155,000 self-esteem and enable young people to across Antwerp, Belgium, the event saw towards training young coaches and volunteers. establish contact and friendship with others. 2,000 athletes from 58 nations competing in ParkLives, Great Britain Unfortunately, this is not always as easy as 10 different sports. The games were Europe’s In 2014, Coca-Cola Great Britain launched it sounds. In the Netherlands, thousands largest sporting event for people with a nationwide, long-term program of fun, of young people are not able to become intellectual disabilities, and offered a free activities in parks in the heart of local members of a sports club as it is too life-changing opportunity for athletes to communities in major cities. Partnerships expensive. Together, with Coca-Cola, we compete at European level. CCE supported were established with three local authorities are committed to helping underprivileged the event with more than 200 employee in Birmingham, Newcastle and the London young people get more active. volunteers helping athletes and encouraging Borough of Newham. A wide range of free, consumers to recycle at 45 Coca-Cola informal sports activities were on offer Jeugdsportfonds, Netherlands branded recycling points. throughout the summer in over 70 parks, from We have teamed up with The Coca-Cola tai chi to rounders, Zumba and table tennis, Company in a three-year agreement which with all ages and abilities welcome. Over enables teenagers from low-income families Mission Olympic, Belgium 3,000 hours of activities were provided and to experience the joy of playing team sports. In In 2011, Coca-Cola organized the first Mission the program will expand to more cities in 2015. 2014, nearly 30,000 young people were able to Olympic event at the King Baudoin Stadium in Le Sport Ça Me Dit, France play organized sports and by 2016, the aim is Brussels. The fourth season of Mission Olympic In France, we sponsor Le Sport Ça Me Dit (I Like to expand the program to support 40,000 took place in 2014. Every year, Mission Olympic Sport), created in 2008 with support from the teenagers each year (see external spotlight). encourages 23,000 Belgian students aged between 12 and 14 to get moving through Ministry of Sports and the French National JOGG, Netherlands showcasing and providing opportunities to try Olympic Committee to provide simple ways for In Dongen in the Netherlands, where our more than 50 sports. Through this initiative, young people to take part in sports and games. manufacturing operation is based, we are Coca-Cola aims to familiarize young people with Under the scheme, municipalities are provided working with JOGG (Youngsters of a Healthy various sports and develop their enthusiasm for with equipment for six different activities, all Weight), a community-based initiative helping the Olympic spirit. packaged in a one-meter cube. This cube is young people lead healthy lives. Together with able to be set up very quickly in streets, parks sports organizations, the local municipality, During the 2015/2016 school year, Olympic and other urban spaces. The project involved schools and local companies, the scheme Moves, currently running in the Netherlands, approximately 600,000 young people in 2014 develops and implements programs to will be introduced in Belgium. alone and currently operates in more than encourage healthy lives. Bloso and Adeps, Belgium 1,000 municipalities. Puls, Norway We support two regional Belgian national L dans la Ville, France In Norway, in 2104, we partnered with Puls and sports associations, Bloso and Adeps, who are In 2014, a new partnership was established the Red Cross to help under-privileged young responsible for all aspects of sport development with ‘L dans la Ville’, an NGO operating since people get more active. More than 1,700 young – from training coaches, to growing sports clubs 1998 to address access to sports and jobs in people took part in activities including climbing, and developing communal sporting functions. under-privileged areas. The program targets dancing, football and bowling, based in four Royal Belgian Football Association, Belgium girls aged 12 -20 and focuses on four key areas: Red Cross centers in Oslo. In 2014, CCE extended its more than 30-year weekly sports sessions, holiday sports camps, Cityride, Norway partnership with the KBVB (the Royal Belgian support for professional integration, and In 2013, CCE partnered with Cityride in Norway Football Association) with another four-year support for entrepreneurs. In 2014, more than to promote the advantages of cycling and to collaboration. Half of the sponsorship budget 1,000 girls took part in Lyon and Paris, and encourage young people and their families to will be invested in youth football activation 80 percent of the 16–20 year olds taking part get involved. In 2014, Cityride events took place programs, encouraging an active lifestyle found a job at the end of the program. in 20 locations and involved 4,600 people. among young people aged 12 and over. Olympic Moves, Netherlands Swimming Federation, Sweden In 2014, in partnership with the Federation, we Started in 2003 by the Coca-Cola system and In 2013, CCE began a three-year partnership developed a customer activation linked to the the Dutch Olympic Committee, Olympic Moves with the Swedish Swimming Federation to 2014 FIFA™ World Cup. This activation resulted in is the biggest annual school sports competition encourage exercise through swimming and a donation of $74,100 being made to G-Football, in the Netherlands. Each year, it encourages improve the nation’s swimming ability. The an organization for people with disabilities. more than 150,000 12 to 18-year-olds to discover program promotes swimming in cooperation sports in a fun way and to develop a lifelong with local associations, giving people tips and interest in physical activity. In 2014, Olympic challenges from champion swimmers via digital Moves involved 300 Dutch schools through a channels. In 2014, more than 27,000 people series of local, regional and national events. benefited from the program. The Olympic Moves Final was held at the Olympic Stadium, Amsterdam. We are working to increase the number of students and schools participating in the next few years, by increasing the number of regional finals and the number of 1 In partnership with the Coca-Cola Company. vocational high schools participating. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014/2015 ISSUE SHEET 09/30 Issue sheet: Climate Change How can we tackle the issue of climate change? ISSUE INSIGHTS “Countries at all levels of income have 2°C To avoid the most dangerous impacts of climate the opportunity to build lasting economic growth at the same time as reducing change, we need to limit global temperature rises to no more than 2°C above pre-industrial levels.1 the immense risk of climate change.4” IPCC Better Growth, Better Climate, The New Climate Economy Report, 2014. Rising levels The rising levels of greenhouse gases from the burning of fossil fuels and land-use changes (such as deforestation) are causing a sustained and unequivocal rise in global temperatures.2 IPCC 40% The European Union has agreed a 40 percent greenhouse gas emissions reduction target by 2030 and a long-term target to reduce GHG emissions by 80-95 percent by 2050.3 European Union Climate change is one of the In addition, climate change could lead to decreased agricultural productivity in certain OUR COMMITMENT most serious and complex global regions of the world and possibly limit the challenges facing the world. availability or increase the cost of the raw We will reduce the Together with other related materials we use in our products. impacts including extreme weather As a result, we have strengthened our carbon footprint of the events, biodiversity loss and water commitments to reduce the greenhouse gas emissions associated with our own business drink in your hand by and food crises, it’s among the top and our value chain. It is also why we continue a third by delivering global risks identified by the World to support a progressive policy agenda on climate change and carbon reduction and have Economic Forum. carbon reductions At Coca-Cola Enterprises we believe that supported the work of the Prince of Wales’ Corporate Leaders Group on Climate Change throughout the entire urgent action must be taken to tackle climate change – one of the most significant risks for and the Haga Initiative in Sweden. We believe that the impact of climate change value chain by 2020. our business. is both dangerous and costly. Yet economic Gradual rises in global temperatures, due to growth and action on climate change can be increased greenhouse gases in the atmosphere, achieved simultaneously. Decarbonization and are linked to changing weather patterns and the transition towards a low-carbon economy extreme weather conditions around the world can be a driver of green growth and deliver – both of which could have adverse impacts on significant long-term economic benefits. These our manufacturing operations and distribution include improved energy security, new jobs in network. Climate change may also impact water, the low-carbon sector, reduced air pollution and our primary ingredient, exacerbating water protection of the biodiversity and ecosystems on scarcity and causing a further deterioration which we all rely. of water quality in affected regions. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014/2015 ISSUE SHEET 09/30 Climate Change — continued Nina Ekelund Rein de Jong Programme Director, Supply Chain Operations Director, Haga Initiative, Dongen, Netherlands, Sweden Coca-Cola Enterprises A VIEW FROM THE HAGA INITIATIVE A VIEW FROM COCA-COLA ENTERPRISES I believe climate change is the biggest threat I’m passionate about the issue of climate change. As a father, I feel that it’s important to leave to the survival of humanity. Among young the planet in as good a state as it can be for our children. However, I know that everything I do people, particularly, it’s a cause of concern on a personal basis – at home, on my way to work – can be done bigger and better at our because it’s their future at stake. Companies factory in Dongen. By belonging to a company like CCE, I can make a big difference. like Coca-Cola Enterprises, that seek to be As the site director for our Dongen factory, I see first-hand the impact that climate change can close to their consumers, have to take a lead have and the risks we face as a business. For example, over the past three years, we have had on this issue – and be seen to be doing so. much heavier rainfall and have had to deal with issues such as flooding for the first time. That means having an ambitious climate I’m proud that at CCE we are looking at the opportunities and the longer-term picture rather than agenda with clear targets. It means just managing the risks. Our new target to halve the carbon footprint of our business and our recognizing the link between climate change commitment to reduce the carbon footprint of the drink in your hand by a third are the right things and issues such as water security and to do. At Dongen I’m proud that we have reduced the energy that we use at the site by 19 percent biodiversity and taking action accordingly. since 2007. Sometimes it means that our investments have a longer payback – for example It means investing in innovation and working when we look to source our energy from low-carbon or renewable sources, such as wind. with others to promote recycling, develop It also provides some great opportunities for collaboration. At Dongen, we are working with sustainable packaging and advance the our neighbor and supplier, Ardagh Glass, to capture the residual heat from their facility and circular economy. Progressive companies use it to power our Dongen site. also need to be transparent in communicating what they are doing and the progress they I believe that by working together we can all make a big difference. are making. The benefits are clear – not just cost savings through greater energy efficiency, but a better brand reputation leading to greater consumer loyalty, employees (especially the younger generation) who are proud to work for the organization and investors prepared to look more favorably on the business. Given that the costs of such an agenda will change over time, companies that take ambitious action now will have an advantage over those that wait. With every step, CCE needs to be asking what it can do to be part of the climate change solution. That’s what tomorrow’s consumers will want to see. Wakefield packaging line. 1 IPCC 2 IPCC 3 European Union 4 The New Climate Economy Report 2014 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014/2015 FACTSHEET 10/30 Our Carbon Footprint Our cooling equipment. Production line at our Wakefield manufacturing operations. OUR COMMITMENT HIGHLIGHTS 2014 We will reduce the carbon footprint of the drink in your hand by 19% reduction in the carbon footprint of the drink in a third by delivering carbon reductions throughout our value chain by 2020. your hand since 2007. INTRODUCTION We recognize the part we must play in addressing climate change. 29% reduction in the carbon footprint of our core We want to grow a low-carbon business and inspire our customers and suppliers to lead change for a more sustainable tomorrow. business operations since 2007. found in Factsheets 12 and 13. Fifty percent of OUR STRATEGY 618,984 emissions from our value chain comes from our Our strategy to reduce the carbon footprint packaging: of this, 57 percent comes from cans of our business operations focuses on and 20 percent from plastic (PET) bottles. For The carbon footprint of CCE’s core business three themes: more information on our sustainable packaging operations in 2014 was 618,984 metric tonnes • Measuring and managing our and recycling work, see Factsheets 15 and 16. of CO2e. carbon footprint. Information on the work with our suppliers to • Setting supporting targets and developing reduce our supply chain impacts can be found carbon-reduction roadmaps. in Factsheet 22. We also provide more detail SUSTAINABILITY PLAN • Driving innovation, collaboration about the work that we are doing to source our key agricultural ingredients sustainably in COMMITMENTS and technology. Factsheet 21. This Factsheet will provide more information 1/3 We are focused on reducing both the carbon footprint of our business and that of our entire about the work we are doing to reduce the value chain. Since 2007, we have reduced the carbon footprint of our core business operations. Reduce the carbon footprint of the drink in your carbon footprint of the drink in your hand by OUR CARBON FOOTPRINT hand by a third by 2020. 19 percent, and have reduced the carbon footprint of our core business operations by At CCE we measure both the carbon footprint of our business and that of our value chain. 50% 29 percent. As part of our updated Sustainability Plan commitments, we have set a goal to reduce Our value chain carbon footprint is made up the carbon footprint of our core business of six key elements, from the ingredients and Grow our business, but reduce the absolute operations by half by 2020 in absolute terms. packaging in our supply chain, through our carbon footprint of our core business operations core business operations (manufacturing, We have set carbon reduction targets for each distribution) and our cold drinks equipment, by 50 percent by 2020. key area of emissions within our operations. to recycling once our product has reached More detail on our transportation and a consumer. distribution and cold drinks equipment can be ESTIMATED CARBON EMISSIONS ACROSS OUR VALUE CHAIN IN 2014 SUPPLY CHAIN CORE BUSINESS OPERATIONS CONSUMERS 1.32 million metric tonnes CO2e estimated1 618,984 metric tonnes CO2e Ingredients Packaging Manufacturing Distribution Refrigeration Recycling 18% 50% 8% 6% 18% Included in packaging2 1 We have modeled emissions for ingredients and packaging using industry average conversion factors linked to our procurement data for each raw material. 2 As a result of carbon packaging footprint methodologies. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014/2015 FACTSHEET 10/30 Our Carbon Footprint — continued In 2014, using the WRI/WBCSD Greenhouse Gas Under the WRI/WBCSD Protocol, we measure emissions (those that do not occur at our Protocol, we measured the carbon footprint of our emissions in three ‘scopes’, except for CO2e business operations but result from our our core business operations at 618,984 tonnes emissions from biologically sequestered carbon, business) because they are significantly greater of CO2e for the period January 1, 2014 through which is reported separately. than our Scope 1 and 2 (core) emissions. We use December 31, 2014. This was a reduction of • Scope 1: Direct sources of emissions such a baseline year of 2007, and our Scope 1 and 2 6.34 percent from 2013, and a 29.13 percent as the fuel we use for manufacturing and emissions are independent of any greenhouse reduction from our 2007 baseline. our own vehicles. Scope 1 also includes our gas trades. The carbon footprint of our business process and fugitive emissions. operations in 2014 is verified in accordance with MEASURING OUR CARBON FOOTPRINT the GHG Protocol by SGS. CCE’s core business operations include our • Scope 2: Indirect sources of emissions such manufacturing processes, facilities, fleet, offices, as the purchased electricity we use at our sites. SOURCES OF DATA AND CALCULATION cold drinks equipment and business travel. • Scope 3: Indirect sources associated with the METHODOLOGIES We measure emissions from these activities electricity used by our coolers and vending We use an operational control consolidation across our entire business in eight Western machines at our customers’ premises, our approach to determine organizational European territories (Great Britain, France, employee business travel by rail and air, boundaries. Data is consolidated from a Belgium, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, emissions related to the supply of water and number of sources across our business and Monaco, Norway, and Sweden) as well as for treatment of wastewater, emissions from is analyzed centrally. We use a variety of our offices in the United States and Bulgaria. waste to landfill and solid incinerated waste methodologies to gather our emissions data Our core business operations make up where energy has been recovered, and the and measure each part of our operational 32 percent of our value chain carbon footprint. fuel used by our third-party distributors. carbon footprint, including: Greenhouse Gases (tonnes CO2e)3 We measure and seek to reduce our Scope 3 • Energy data: from metered sources, supplier invoices and estimates (e.g. our bottle sorting TOTAL Carbon Nitrous (SCOPE) facility in Norway is estimated on the basis dioxide oxide Methane Hydro(tonnes % of its floor area in comparison to its main (CO2) (N2O) (CH4) fluorocarbons CO2e) Footprint production facility). SCOPE 1. D  irect emissions (e.g. fuel) 104,044 307 102 680 105,1338 17% • Refrigerant gas losses from contractors’ 2. Indirect emissions 79,117 0 0 0 79,117 13% re-gasing invoices. (e.g. electricity) • CO2 fugitive gases from measuring our 3. Related third-party 434,052 659 24 0 434,734 70% opening and closing stock levels and emissions (e.g. from subtracting the quantity of CO2 used in our cold drinks equipment) products as well as CO2 used in effluent TOTAL (GHG) 617,212 966 126 680 618,984 100% wastewater treatment. • Calculations of cold drinks equipment A variety of sources of energy are associated with our core business operations, all of which contribute emissions are based on average hourly to our carbon footprint. Our energy use in 2014 was as follows: supplier energy consumption rates and by subtracting any savings achieved through CCE Energy sources and use – 2014 carbon reduction initiatives during the MWh Gigajoules reporting period. Direct energy consumption Total natural gas used 150,668 542,405 • Transport fuel calculated according to by primary energy source4 actual liters used or kilometers recorded. Total LPG used 26,952 97,026 Total light fuel oil used 875 3,151 • Supply of water, treatment of wastewater and waste management calculated by using Total diesel and petrol used 126,205 454,336 liter and weight (kg) data respectively. Total biofuel used 3,319 11,949 • Energy, fuel and fugitive gas raw data, is Total direct energy consumption 308,019 1,108,867 collected and converted to carbon equivalents Indirect energy Total electricity purchased and used 306,593 1,103,735 (CO2e), and multiplied by emission factors or consumption by Global Warming Potential factors: electricity primary source Total heat purchased and used 19,253 69,311 (IEA 2012), non-electrical (DEFRA 2013) and Energy used in cold drinks equipment5, 6 1,340,546 4,825,966 district heating from suppliers. Energy from renewable or low-carbon sources 4 26,591 95,728 Approximately 2 percent of our operational Total indirect energy consumption7 1,692,983 6,094,739 carbon footprint is based on estimated emissions (e.g. leased offices where energy invoices are not available). More information Our operational carbon footprint 2007–2014 by emission source7, 9 on the methodologies used can be found on 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 cokecce.com Operations and commercial sites 196,800 195,110 192,070 190,673 177,593 170,708 160,584 154,1798 (tonnes CO2e) MANAGING OUR CARBON FOOTPRINT Cold drinks equipment 532,434 557,010 512,715 505,017 432,835 411,082 361,944 344,058 At CCE, we manage the reduction of our (tonnes CO2e) operational and value chain commitment CCE fleet 50,636 51,033 49,702 48,883 46,603 46,270 37,716 30,727 through our CRS Advisory Council, and (tonnes CO2e) specifically our Energy and Climate Change Third-party distribution 85,888 85,592 94,377 94,794 106,934 99,090 90,691 79,800 Steering Group. This group is responsible for (tonnes CO2e) setting our carbon reduction targets, and the Other (including business travel) 7,597 6,792 9,529 8,518 8,963 9,919 9,936 10,221 subtargets for each area under our operational (tonnes CO2e) control. In addition, since 2010, we have used a TOTAL (’000 tonnes CO2e) 873 896 858 848 773 737 661 619 Carbon Allowance process under which each 3 Please note we do not have PFCs or SF6 emissions. business unit sets annual carbon reduction 4 Includes onand off-site solar, geothermal, biomass and combined heat and power (CHP) generation. targets in line with it’s business plans. Business 5 Refrigerant leaks for CDE equipment are not included in our Scope 3 calculations. 6 This included energy consumed by our cold drinks equipment outside of CCE operations and within customer locations unit level carbon reduction plans are developed, 7 Due to a number of minor data recalculations including changes to emission factors, we have restated the carbon footprint of our core business with progress monitored and reported quarterly. operations in 2007 (our baseline year) as well as for subsequent years. 8 Please note that because we use anaerobic wastewater biogas at Wakefield, Great Britain, this generated emissions of 271 metric tonnes of CO2e For more information on our energy and in 2014. We do not include the associated CO2e emissions under Scope 1 of our footprint in alignment with the WRI/WBCSD Protocol renewable energy, transportation and 9 See footnote 3 on Our Business factsheet. distribution and cold drinks equipment carbon reduction plans, see Factsheets 11, 12 and 13. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014/2015 FACTSHEET 11/30 Energy and Renewable Energy Production lines at our Wakefield manufacturing operations. OUR COMMITMENT HIGHLIGHTS 2014 By 2020, we will manufacture every liter of product with 50 percent less 28% reduction in the CO2e g/liter of product produced carbon emissions for every liter of product we manufacture and source 40 percent of our energy from renewable or low-carbon sources. against our 2007 baseline. INTRODUCTION In working towards a low-carbon future, we’ve set rigorous targets for 5.5% of the energy we use for manufacturing comes reducing emissions across our value chain. Within our production plants, the focus is on making our manufacturing more energy efficient. In 2014, we from renewable/low-carbon sources. invested $59 million in new energy-efficient production lines and equipment and $10 million in additional projects to reduce carbon emissions at our plants. 74.14 energy use ratio (kWh/1,000 liters).1 31.9g CO2e per liter of product 5.31% (2007 baseline) reduction in total energy use against CO2e 2007 baseline. ENERGY USE RATIO PROGRESS 2007–20142 AND 2020 TARGET 23.8g CO2e per liter of product per liter (2014) Energy consumed (kWh) per 1,000 liters of product of product 90.83 89.78 88.20 88.37 81.69 81.87 77.24 74.14 72.73 We monitor energy efficiency by calculating STRATEGY the energy use ratio, namely how much energy Within our manufacturing operations, we it takes to produce 1,000 liters of product. 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2020 aim to improve our energy efficiency and The calculation includes gas, oil, diesel, LPG, target make greater use of alternative energy electricity bought from the national grid, and sources. This involves: district heating.1 Our 2014 ratio of 74.14 kWh per SUSTAINABILITY PLAN • Managing the energy we use and 1,000 liters is 4.02 percent less than in 2013, COMMITMENTS adopting best practices and behaviors. and 18.38 percent less than our 2007 baseline. • Investing in new and improved 5.5 percent of our energy use comes from renewable sources. 50% energy-efficient equipment. • Investing in renewable and low-carbon We report our reductions in energy consumption energy sources, where possible. and carbon emissions based against a 2007 Manufacture every liter of product with baseline, in line with our Sustainability Plan. 50 percent less emissions by 2020. ENERGY CONSUMPTION AND ENERGY MANAGEMENT ENERGY EFFICIENCY Central to our approach is the effective 40% Source 40 percent of our energy from renewable The use of electricity and gas accounts for 90 percent of the total energy used in our manufacturing and distribution sites. In 2014, management of energy and carbon emissions with energy management and monitoring processes in place across CCE. our manufacturing operations used a total of or low-carbon sources by 2020. We use energy meters and inline monitoring 461,095 megawatt hours (MWh)3 of energy, a decrease of 5.31 percent since 2007 despite a and targeting systems to provide live data 5.44 percent increase in production volumes. on the energy we’re using and to identify This resulted in an average of 23.8 grams of opportunities for improvement. In 2014, we CO2e per liter of product produced, a 28 percent continued the installation of more advanced reduction against our 2007 baseline. systems which combine production data with information on water and energy consumption. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014/2015 FACTSHEET 11/30 Energy and Renewable Energy — continued Linked directly to our production software, RENEWABLE AND LOW-CARBON ENERGY these tools provide real-time reporting which Gilles Kalicki At present, approximately 5.5 percent of our help our line operators meet our energy-use Technical Services manufacturing energy comes from renewable targets. These new systems have so far been Dunkerque, France and low-carbon sources, saving more than installed at Dongen in the Netherlands and 3,500 tonnes of CO2e a year. As a result, we were Dunkerque and Grigny in France. More will able to generate 26,444 MWh of energy in 2014 follow in 2015. from renewable sources. We plan to further grow Six of our manufacturing operations (Antwerp, this area in the future, through investment in the Gent and Chaudfontaine in Belgium, Marseille following types of projects: and Toulouse in France and Dongen in the EMPLOYEE SPOTLIGHT District heating Netherlands) hold the ‘Energy-Savers’ certificate District heating provides efficiencies by enabling awarded under the Energy Savers program run LED lighting project in Dunkerque. businesses and homes to use a centrally jointly by The Coca-Cola Company and World The aim of our ‘smart lighting’ project was generated source of heat. However, this is only Wildlife Fund (WWF). to optimize the lighting in our Dunkerque available in some of the areas in which we Sixteen of our 17 sites are certified under manufacturing operation. This depended on operate. Our manufacturing operations in Norway the ISO 14001 environmental management the activity in each area, the contribution of and Sweden are linked to district heating systems standard and all meet the even more natural light as well as the inclusion of motion fueled by biomass, drawing approximately rigorous KORE requirement – The Coca-Cola sensors installed on each LED light. The 23 percent and 37 percent of their energy Company’s internal certification linked to project required close collaboration with LED respectively from this source. quality, environmental and safety performance. light suppliers, so that the installation could Turning waste heat into energy Four of our sites (Wakefield and East Kilbride take place without disrupting production, At Dongen in the Netherlands, we are working in Great Britain, Dunkerque in France and providing a safe working environment, and with the Ardagh Group to investigate whether we Chaudfontaine in Belgium) have also achieved also ensuring the most energy efficient can capture and use waste heat from Ardagh’s the energy management standard, ISO 50001. solutions were selected. glass production plant at our own manufacturing We have also been ranked as one of the most Nearly 400 LED fixtures were installed to operations next door. Tests carried out in 2013 and energy efficient bottlers in the Coca-Cola system. replace 600 light fittings. The complex 2014 have confirmed that it is feasible to recover We have again been recognized as a leading installation had to be undertaken at heights the heat. In 2015, a detailed engineering study will manager of carbon with all our operations of 10-12 meters, requiring the use of aerial indicate whether the project is financially viable. receiving the 2014 Carbon Trust Standard. work platforms and scaffolding. Combined heat and power In 2014, CCE became the first company to be I was proud to be part of the installation team. Our first combined heat and power (CHP) system accredited as a Low Energy Company (LEC). As a result of this project, approximately was installed this year at Wakefield in Great We achieved this accreditation through a 1,500 MWh are saved annually, about Britain (see case study). training course run by the Energy Managers 7 percent of the electricity consumption of Solar photovoltaic Association (EMA) which helped our IT our Dunkerque manufacturing operations. We generated more than 150 MWh of electricity managers understand the use of energy within through solar photovoltaic panels in our our organization, the potential carbon impact reduction of 2,323 MWh in electricity usage, operations in 2014. These panels have been of IT systems and how to increase our carbon an equivalent of 760 tonnes of CO2e in 2014 newly installed at our manufacturing operations and energy savings. (see employee spotlight). in Chaudfontaine, Belgium, and Marseille, INNOVATION AND TECHNOLOGY Packaging oven optimization France. These join previous installations at Wrapping shrink film over packs of bottles our manufacturing operations in Edmonton, In our drive to conserve energy, we continue Sidcup, Wakefield and our offices in Uxbridge to invest in process innovation and energyor cans involves heating the film. Having previously used electricity for this purpose, in Great Britain. efficient technologies. The work includes centrally led projects in areas of high energy we’re now converting our heating equipment Wind use and site-specific initiatives to address local to gas which is less carbon-intensive. This Wind turbines require sufficient wind and land opportunities, including: multi-site project continued in 2014 with packer in order to be a viable source of energy. After ovens converted at Sidcup and Edmonton in surveying our sites we’ve developed plans Bottle blower optimization Great Britain. Others will follow in 2015 at for a five-turbine wind park at Dongen in the Following a series of initiatives in 2013 to reduce Milton Keynes and East Kilbride in Great Britain, Netherlands. One or two wind turbines would be the energy needed to blow our PET bottles, we Dongen in the Netherlands, and Marseille and located on our site, the others would be located at have now redesigned the base of the moulds in Toulouse in France. The work so far has cut the another industrial plant in the area. The project is which the bottles are blown so that the process carbon footprint of our ovens by approximately now subject to approval by the local authorities. requires less air pressure, and therefore less 25 percent. energy. The new design was tested in 2014 at Grigny in France, Antwerp in Belgium and Sidcup in Great Britain and will be rolled out CASE STUDY to 10 more sites in 2015. We expect that this CHP at Wakefield will result in 2,500 MWh less energy used, equivalent to a reduction of 560 tonnes CO2.e. Combined heat and power (CHP) systems can LED energy-efficient lighting cut carbon emissions by generating electricity We continue to install energy-efficient LED and heat from natural gas and are practical and intelligent lighting systems in our sites. as long as there is sufficient demand for both. In 2014 there was further work at Sidcup and A feasibility study across our sites identified our Northampton in Great Britain and at Grigny largest plant, Wakefield, as offering the best and Clamart in France. New lighting projects opportunity for CHP. Since the CHP started in were implemented at Dunkerque in France, July 2014, this equipment has delivered 4,785 Antwerp in Belgium and East Kilbride in MWh of electricity and 3,185 MWh of heat. This Great Britain. These projects resulted in a reduced the site’s carbon footprint by 770 tonnes of CO2e. On a yearly basis these figures 1 Includes sources: thermal energy – natural gas, heat or steam, electricity; will double. Plans are also under way for a CHP LPG, oil, diesel and renewables – solar PV, geothermal. Does not include system at Milton Keynes in Great Britain and at ‘output’ from CHP as natural gas ‘input energy’ is included. 2 Including Norway and Sweden from the year 2010 onwards. Gent in Belgium. 3 Energy data expressed as MWh in line with CCE’s internal reporting processes and KPIs. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014/2015 FACTSHEET 12/30 Transportation and Distribution OUR COMMITMENT HIGHLIGHTS 2014 We will deliver a case of product with 30 percent less carbon 4.4% of the kilometers we drive use alternative emissions by 2020. INTRODUCTION technologies and fuels. The transportation of our products accounts for 6 percent of our carbon footprint, making it one of the smaller contributors in our value chain. 2.5 million kilometers saved due to backhauling initiatives. However, it is critical that we continue to improve in this area. Delivering our products effectively and efficiently is central to our business, and we drive more than 102 million kilometers a year to achieve this goal. $132m As our business grows, we will continue to find new ways to reduce the kilometers we drive and find new, less carbon-intensive ways of invested in increased storage capacity delivering our products. at our manufacturing operations. in Edmonton in Great Britain, Dongen in the 26% OUR STRATEGY Netherlands, Clamart and Marseille in France, We focus our efforts on three key areas: and Oslo in Norway. In 2014, we achieved a 26 percent reduction in • Driving less: traveling fewer kilometers by By working in conjunction with our customers, CO2e per case delivered (145 g/case) since 2007. optimizing our logistics network. we can optimize our routes, reducing the • Driving greener: working with our customers kilometers we drive. This type of collaboration and suppliers to remove road kilometers is particularly important in countries such SUSTAINABILITY PLAN through techniques such as backhauling. as Belgium, where most of our deliveries are directly to shops rather than to COMMITMENT • Collaborating with industry: promoting customer warehouses. alternative technologies and greater vehicle 30% efficiency so the industry as a whole emits Our work with suppliers includes optimizing less carbon for every kilometer driven. the way materials are delivered to our factories. Many of our sites are located next to our can Deliver a case of product with 30 percent less DRIVING LESS BY OPTIMIZING OUR NETWORK suppliers so that they can be delivered with carbon emissions by 2020. In order to reduce our carbon emissions, we minimal transportation. Similarly, all our PET need to make our distribution as efficient as bottles are blown on site, and we recently possible. We do this by producing our products started manufacturing our own PET bottle as close as we can to our customers, and preforms at our manufacturing operations in delivering them directly from our production Grigny, France, to reduce our transportation sites, rather than from external warehouses. In requirements even further (see Factsheet 15). addition, we collaborate with our customers and BACKHAULING suppliers to improve the way we deliver our Backhauling reduces road kilometers and products and receive our raw materials. emissions by combining customer deliveries In order to be able to deliver our products with collections, ensuring that trucks are directly to our customers, we have to invest loaded on both the outward and return legs in production and storage capacity at our of a delivery whenever possible. We currently manufacturing operations. At our Wakefield have backhaul arrangements with 26 major plant in Great Britain, we recently opened a customers including Tesco, Casino, and $46.5 million Automated Storage and Retrieval Carrefour, and these initiatives removed System (ASRS) warehouse, a 34-meter high more than 2.54 million road kilometers and facility designed to hold and automatically move 2,257 tonnes of CO2e in 2014. We also partnered 30,000 pallets. The new facility has doubled our with Tesco to increase the percentage volume storage capacity at the site and allows us to backhauled from 14 percent to 46 percent. deliver products directly to our customers, This enabled us to move nearly 10,000 orders saving 496,000 road kilometers by HGV trucks to Great Britain’s largest retailer in a more and a reduction of 712 tonnes of CO2e per year. carbon-efficient way. We have also invested nearly $86 million in similar systems at our manufacturing operations CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014/2015 FACTSHEET 12/30 Transportation and Distribution — continued Improvements in vehicle efficiencies Electric vehicles CASE STUDY We encourage our hauliers to use newer, Electric vehicles offer environmental benefits on fuel-efficient engines and have been working regular, shorter journeys but are limited by their Multi-modal transport with them over the past 12 months to assess carrying capacity. CCE uses them for our smaller, the efficiency rates of their trucks. The results inner-city routes in Paris, France and in Oslo, have been positive, showing that the trucks used Norway, and we also have a small number of today are on average 9 percent more efficient electric vehicles in our company car and van than those used in 2007. Our main hauliers are fleet. We are also developing an EU Electric and also making the transition to the latest EURO VI Plug-in Hybrid policy for new vehicles in 2015. emission standard, and plan to ensure that all their diesel trucks meet this standard by 2018. WORKING WITH THE INDUSTRY Eco-Combis We work with a number of industry groups For transporting raw materials and finished Longer than conventional diesel trucks, across our territories in order to benchmark goods over long distances we use multi‘Eco-Combi’ diesels can carry up to 38 percent our progress and enhance our commitment modal transport, whereby trailers are more per journey, which in turn cuts the number to low-carbon vehicles and fuels. In particular, transported by rail with only short truck of trips and reduces our emissions. By using we are members of the Belgian Lean & Green journeys at each end of the route. We have 11 Eco-Combis in the Netherlands, we have been program and the Centre for Sustainable Freight used this method in France since 2001, able to reduce emissions for each pallet moved Transport in Great Britain. We are also working delivering more than 35,000 loads in this way by 22 percent. with ADEME in France on a carbon reduction by 2014. The work that we have done to charter, are part of the Haga emissionsoptimize our networks has decreased the Bioand dual-fuel trucks reduction initiative in Sweden and are involved number of long-distance journeys that require We continue to trial and introduce vehicles in a vehicle efficiency study with Heriot-Watt rail transport. However, where long-distance using alternative fuels. In Sweden, 62 percent University’s Centre for Sustainable Road Freight travel remains unavoidable, we have been of our trucks now run on biofuel. In the in Great Britain. In a further move to change working with our hauliers to increase the use Netherlands, we are working to develop a industry practices, we now include carbonof multi-modal rail as the preferred mode of pilot for the use of another bio-fuel and in reduction criteria in our procurement systems transport. In 2014, we changed our transport France, we introduced the first trucks to run and the tendering process for hauliers. organization, and opened new routes and on compressed natural gas (CNG). began to use this method to transport We have also been working with hauliers to pre-forms and empty glass bottles, allowing trial dual-fuel vehicles. In Sweden, we operate Marijke Jacobs-Heefer us to handle 1,000 more multi-modal trips a dual-fuel delivery trucks powered by a mix of Senior Manager, year. In 2014, as a result of a new tendering 75 percent liquid natural gas (LNG) and liquid Customer Logistics, process focusing specifically on multi-modal biogas (LBG) and 25 percent regular diesel.1 Netherlands transport, we were able to increase these Increasing our use of biofuel further is limited by trips by 18 percent vs 2013. By 2020, we plan our early adoption of the Euro VI standard. Until to double the annual number of trips to 5,000, alternative fuels and truck technologies become increasing road kilometers saved from two more viable, dual-fuel vehicles will be central to million to four million a year. We estimate this our sustainable distribution strategy. EMPLOYEE SPOTLIGHT will save us 3,800 tonnes in CO2 emissions Smaller trucks and company cars per year versus using traditional diesel truck Alternative fuels for transport In 2013, we reviewed the vehicles we offer our transport methods. employees, choosing models with the highest As a member of the Transportation Working fuel efficiency, and increasing the range of Group, part of my role is to research and ALTERNATIVE TECHNOLOGIES AND FUELS hybrid cars. As a result, we now have 101 hybrid explore the use of alternative fuels for Most of our deliveries are now made by vehicles in our fleet. In 2014, we replaced transport. Over the past eighteen months third-party hauliers with whom we collaborate 43 percent of our total car and van fleet, I have looked at the opportunities for two in promoting the use of new carbon-reduction achieving a reduction of our average CO2g/km alternative fuels – biogas and biodiesel – technologies and fuels. In 2014, these emissions by 5.6 percent. Since 2010, we have and have worked closely with our hauliers alternatives accounted for 4.4 percent of reduced our car fleet’s average CO2g/km by and truck suppliers to identify common areas our distribution kilometers across Europe. 20 percent. In Belgium, where we use smaller of focus. In particular, we are exploring the trucks, we limit their speed to 80 kilometers use of 10 percent diesel and 90 percent gas per hour to save fuel. as well as working with a number of hauliers to consider the use of up to 35 percent biodiesel. It is exciting to be at the forefront of this technology and finding new opportunities to use it in our business. REVISING OUR TARGET This year we met our initial transportation commitment to deliver a case of product with 20 percent fewer emissions by 2020. Although we have made significant improvements in our processes and policies over the past few years, this has largely been due to improvements made to our baseline figures and modeling assumptions. Through work we completed in 2014, we have been able to replace assumptions with actual data and to factor in the improved vehicular efficiency rates of our hauliers, which we didn’t have previously. During this time, we have also changed our route to market for some of our direct store deliveries and full service vending operations, which accounts for more than half of the progress we have made. To be consistent in the way we measure this commitment we will continue to include these emissions in the targets we set. We are also restating our 2007 baseline calculation as this was understated by 15,000 tonnes. We know that there is much more work to do and have now revised our target to achieve a 30 percent carbon emissions reduction by 2020. 1 Percentage of RME used may vary depending on outdoor temperature. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014/2015 FACTSHEET 13/30 Cold Drinks Equipment Refurbishment at our Milton Keynes Cold Drinks Center. OUR COMMITMENT HIGHLIGHTS 2014 We will reduce the carbon emissions from our cold drinks equipment 35% reduction in the absolute carbon footprint by an average of 50 percent by 2020. INTRODUCTION of our cold drinks equipment since 2007. Our customers operate more than 545,000 items of cooling equipment (coolers, vendors and fountain machines) supplied by CCE. Our cold $47m invested in reducing carbon emissions drinks equipment fleet is the third largest source of carbon emissions in our value chain, accounting for 18 percent of the total. In the past from our cold drinks equipment since 2010. five years, we have invested more than $47 million in reducing these emissions. Since 2007, we have cut the carbon impact of our cooling 631kg We reduced the average CO2e per unit of equipment by more than 188,376 tonnes of CO2e, saving approximately 62,168 MWh of electricity for our customers each year. equipment to 631kg in 2014 – down from 1,032kg in 2007. 1,032kg 39% (2007) reduction in the average CO2e per unit of equipment since 2007. 631kg (2014) average CO2e per unit of equipment SUSTAINABILITY PLAN COMMITMENT 50% Reduce the carbon emissions from our OUR STRATEGY Our cooling equipment strategy has devices. From September 2014, OFUs that would previously have been retrofitted or refurbished are being replaced with closed-door cold drinks equipment by an average of three priorities: units (see case study). 50 percent by 2020. • Collaborating with suppliers to purchase We constantly review our refrigeration new, more efficient equipment. standards in conjunction with The Coca-Cola • Fitting existing equipment with energyCompany to ensure that consumers can efficient technology during refurbishment continue to enjoy high-quality products in and at our customers’ premises. a more energy-efficient way. • Working with suppliers and other partners EXISTING EQUIPMENT to innovate and develop new cooling CCE’s policy is to buy new equipment when technologies that can then be adopted a cooler can no longer be economically by the wider cold drinks industry. refurbished. 59.3 percent of all the equipment we placed in the market in 2014 consisted NEW EQUIPMENT of refurbished items. New equipment that we buy and install in When a unit finally reaches the end of its our customers’ premises has to meet high working life, it is 100 percent recycled under standards. We only purchase equipment that is conditions that are carefully monitored so at least 40 percent more energy-efficient than that nothing goes to landfill. an equivalent purchased in 2000. During 2014, we continued to make our existing To save energy, we have not bought any large, coolers and vendors more energy-efficient, open-fronted units (OFUs) since 2010. Those either by refurbishing them at one of our six already in place have been fitted with doors, service centers or by retrofitting them with more efficient lighting and energy management CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014/2015 FACTSHEET 13/30 Cold Drinks Equipment — continued energy-efficient technology on our customers’ Where fitting an EMS device is impractical or TECHNOLOGY EVOLUTION AND INNOVATION premises. In 2014, we fitted energy-reduction not cost-effective, we have introduced a simpler, Given the importance of innovation and devices to approximately 35,600 units. ‘plug-and-play’, energy-saving timer. Originally technology in meeting the sustainability Fitting doors developed for our fountain business, this device challenges of the future, we continue to Fitting doors to our large, open-fronted units is now being rolled out to relevant coolers and collaborate with relevant partners to find reduces their energy use by up to 50 percent. vendors in Great Britain with further deployment innovative solutions (see case study below). By September 2014, we had fitted doors to in Belgium, Luxembourg and the Netherlands 67.6 percent of our OFU fleet. from 2015. The timer will enable us to extend our energy management and energy-saving John Howlett Although we no longer upgrade our large program to between 80 and 85 percent coolers in this way, the program continues for Manager, of our fleet. It also continues to be fitted Technical Services, our smaller, open-fronted, ‘impulse’ coolers. to more of our fountain units. We have so far converted 26.9 percent of the Milton Keynes, Great Britain fleet, with more than 944 units fitted with doors Programing our vending machines in 2014. This work will continue in 2015. Some of our vending machines can be programed to switch on and off at pre-selected More efficient lighting times with potential energy savings of up Replacing fluorescent lights in coolers and to 25 percent. In 2014, we programed 2,055 vending machines with more efficient LED EMPLOYEE SPOTLIGHT machines in this way and we plan to complete lighting can cut energy consumption by up the task by 2017. Our LED journey to 80 percent. Knowing this, CCE has led the industry in retrofitting LEDs to cold drinks BECOMING HFC-FREE We began collaborating with our LED and equipment, and in developing the technology cooler manufacturers in 2006 to pioneer the HFC refrigerants are potent greenhouse use of LED technology in our coolers. LED from basic, wired-in LEDs to high-quality, gases that can contribute to global warming easy-fitting ‘tube’ LEDs. As the technology lighting is ideal for use in our coolers, as it if they leak or are released when equipment operates best at low temperatures and does has improved, CCE’s retrofitting program has is disposed of incorrectly. accelerated. Since 2010, the number of CCE not emit any ultra-violet rays. As a result, it coolers and vendors with LED lighting rose from CCE has a policy that all equipment purchased doesn’t have a negative effect on the labels or just under 23,000 to approximately 174,000 should be HFC-free wherever possible, across the natural colorings in our bottled products. (39 percent of applicable units). We plan to all of our coolers, vendors and fountain In addition, while a traditional fluorescent light fit another 20,630 to applicable units in 2015. machines. Over the past four years we have bulb needs to be replaced once a year, LEDs made significant progress on our journey can last the life of a cooler and consume less Energy management and energytowards having an HFC-free fleet – moving electrical energy. By working with our cooler saving devices from 50.4 percent HFC-free cooler purchases and LED manufacturers, we have been able EMS-55 energy management devices (or in 2010 to 97.5 percent in 2014.1 to improve the technology, and it’s now EMS-25 Plus devices in the case of smaller units) standard in all of our coolers. are intelligent systems which recognize when Where an HFC-free solution is not available, a cooler is not being opened regularly and we will collaborate with our suppliers to develop We have also pioneered the use of push-in respond by shutting off lights and adjusting the suitable options. ‘tube’ LEDs which are higher quality and easier temperature. Both devices can reduce the unit’s To prevent leakage of HFCs from existing to fit. We’ll continue to develop and take energy consumption by up to 35 percent. Since coolers, our cooling equipment is maintained advantage of the latest LED developments 2010, we have fitted 155,946 EMS devices with to high standards by our technical centers and with our suppliers while looking for new the result that 70 percent of the fleet that we fit field engineers. We also have systems in place opportunities to use technology innovations this device to now uses this technology. for safe disposal when equipment comes to the to reduce our energy consumption. end of its useful life. CASE STUDY Taking the lead in energyefficient coolers CCE is leading the industry with a program to introduce more energy-efficient coolers. From September 2014, our large open-fronted units (OFUs) will no longer be refurbished but instead be upgraded to more energyefficient coolers including the next-generation iCOOL range featuring energy management technology, LED lighting and electronically commutated (EC) fans and motors. These advanced coolers are 70 percent more energy efficient than standard OFUs and 40 percent more efficient than OFUs retrofitted with doors. They are also more reliable and less costly to maintain. In addition, they will allow CCE to lead the industry in anticipating EU legislation which will require all commercial refrigeration to carry an energy-rating label from January 2017. In 2015, we will invest $4 million to upgrade 1,280 OFUs in Great Britain. The new iCOOL range will account for 30 percent of our cooler purchases during the year. 1 Our 2014 figure for HFC-free purchases is slightly lower than in 2013 (99.8 percent) as some HFC-free models were not commercially available. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014/2015 ISSUE SHEET 14/30 Issue sheet: Resource Scarcity How can we address the issue of resource scarcity? ISSUE INSIGHTS “The circular economy represents a clear and proven Circular Economy opportunity for businesses The adoption of the circular economy could around the world.”5 be worth as much as USD 700 billion in consumer goods material savings alone.1 Ellen MacArthur Foundation Ellen MacArthur Foundation 42% of household waste in the EU is recycled.2 Eurostat “Waste is only waste if we waste it.” 64.6% of packaging waste in the EU is recycled.3 Will.i.am, Musician Our planet faces a resource have been able to replace one of the key molecules in PET with a chemically identical Eurostat challenge with an increasing material derived from sugar cane and population placing heightened molasses. The resulting material looks, Vision 2050 pressure on our finite resources. By 2050, the UN predicts that functions and recycles like traditional PET but has a lower carbon footprint. Work is now around 9 billion people live well, ongoing with partners to create the other key and within the limits of the planet.4 there will be over 9 billion people molecular component of PlantBottle™ from World Business Council for Sustainable in the world6 and by 2030 it is renewable materials. Development estimated that the world will In addition, we aim to use as little material as possible for our packaging. We are need 30 percent more water, committed to reducing the amount of material 40 percent more energy and we use across all of our packaging by 25 OUR COMMITMENT 50 percent more food.7 In order percent by 2020, and increasing our use of to ensure a supply of resources in renewable and recycled materials. We aim to ensure that 40 percent of the PET we use the future, society needs to find We will support the new, renewable sources of raw is recycled PET, and/or PET from renewable materials by 2020. At the same time, we are development of the materials and ensure that those supporting the wider packaging industry to explore next-generation packaging, and circular economy, use materials which come from finite engaging in research and educating resources can be re-used and consumers on ways to improve recycling. recycled and renewable recycled. We need a ‘circular However, more needs to be done. Three out materials and recycle economy’ way of thinking. of four of our packs are currently recovered for recycling – meaning that 25 percent of our more packaging than At Coca-Cola Enterprises, we are fully aware of the risks and opportunities that resource packs are still sent to landfill or incinerated. Further steps need to be taken in conjunction we use. scarcity poses to our business, in particular with governments to improve national collection for our packaging. The sources of the virgin rates, so as to improve the availability and materials we use are finite and at increasing risk quality of recycled packaging materials. due to climate change and population growth. We aim to play our part in ensuring that This has an impact not only on our ability to consumers know how and where our packages source these materials, but also on their cost. can be recycled, and support the reprocessing Ensuring that we have a high quality supply for infrastructure so that the bottles collected can our packaging materials, at a stable cost, is be turned into new bottles. Working together, critical for the future of our business. we can improve this cycle in order to ensure a Over the past few years we have begun to look consistent, high quality supply of materials for our for new, renewable sources of PET plastic. In packaging, and reach our target of 40 percent 2009 we introduced PlantBottle™, in which we recycled and/or renewable PET by 2020. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014/2015 ISSUE SHEET 14/30 Resource Scarcity — continued Mathias Lenas Gregory Giavarina Director, Sustainable Packaging & Recycling Deputy Chief, Coca-Cola Enterprises L’Institut de l’économie circulaire A VIEW FROM COCA-COLA ENTERPRISES A VIEW FROM L’INSTITUT DE As well as pushing up demand for energy and water, climate change is likely to mean scarcer L’ÉCONOMIE CIRCULAIRE supplies and more volatile prices for the steel, aluminum, cardboard and plastics that we use in I believe that by working towards adopting our business. a circular economy, we will be able to If that is the risk to CCE, the opportunity is the chance to take the lead in developing a sustainable separate economic growth from the depletion way to do business. To this end, we support the development of the circular economy, under of natural resources. which we consume fewer resources, and items previously considered waste are turned back into In a circular economy, a positive value loop new materials and products. This is why we have heavily invested in recycling partnerships, like is created each time a material or product our joint venture reprocessing facility with APPE in France – and our ongoing work to make our is used or re-used, before it is ultimately packaging lighter and fully recyclable. destroyed. To do so – the circular economy For me, recycling is the major industry of the 21st century – the key way to preserve natural is dependent upon developing new design resources for future generations. Our stakeholders expect us to take the lead and our reputation models for production and consumption, depends on our doing so. But leadership brings challenges. We need to demonstrate extending how long a product can be used quantifiable progress. We need to be increasingly innovative in our packaging and processes for, ensuring that products can be re-used so as to minimize our use of resources. And we need to be able to collaborate with a range of and recycled. partners from packaging suppliers to specialists in collection and recycling. To have a circular economy – we have to The circular economy only works if all stakeholders, including our consumers, understand why rethink waste. It can no longer be simply the it’s important and how they can play their part. So leadership on our part also requires constant end result of a production model. To do this, communication to influence the attitudes and behavior of the wider public. companies need to better optimize the use of their resources by rethinking the design of their product from the start. To achieve a circular economy model, governments need to work together with companies, stakeholders and local communities to develop ambitious strategies, with multi-year program objectives and shared governance. What Coca-Cola Enterprises has done in creating a PET closed loop system, through their Infineo joint venture, is a good example of how companies should be moving towards better management of their resources and minimizing their environmental impacts. The work that they are doing on eco-design, creating closed-loop recycling, and regional stakeholder engagement will be of benefit to many. Employees at Infineo Recycling, our joint venture with APPE in France. 1 Ellen MacArthur Foundation 2 Eurostat 3 Eurostat 4 World Business Council for Sustainable Development, Vision 2050 5 The Ellen MacArthur Foundation, Circular Economy 100 6 The United Nations 7 Stockholm Environment Institute CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014/2015 FACTSHEET 15/30 Sustainable Packaging OUR COMMITMENT HIGHLIGHTS 2014 We will support the circular economy, use recycled and renewable 20% reduction in our packaging use ratio since 2007. materials and recycle more packaging than we use. INTRODUCTION Packaging is essential to safeguard the quality of our drinks and 120,320 tonnes of recycled material used in our ensure their safe delivery to our customers and consumers. It is also an important resource. We are committed to supporting the development packaging. of a circular economy by ensuring that maximum value can be gained from the use of our resources. 34% of the PET we purchased in 2014 was rPET. 19,300 tonnes of CO2e saved through Lighter packaging made with SUSTAINABILITY PLAN projects in 2014 to lightweight recycled or COMMITMENTS renewable and use recycled and materials 25% renewable materials. means less Reduce by 25 percent the amount of material CO2e we use across all packaging formats by 2020. Include recycled OUR STRATEGY Packaging can be carbon-intensive in its manufacture, and despite the fact that nearly aluminum, glass and steel in respective We continue to evolve and innovate our packaging formats. all of our packaging is recyclable, it is often not packaging in line with our commitment to recycled. We estimate that packaging accounts reduce the carbon footprint of the drink in for about half of the carbon emissions in our 40% your hand by a third by 2020. Our strategy value chain. focuses on several priorities: Ensure that 40 percent of the PET we use is • Using 25 percent less material across all OUR 2014 PACKAGING FOOTPRINT recycled PET and/or PET from renewable our packaging formats. In 2014, we used a total of 346,545 tonnes materials by 2020. • Including recycled aluminum, glass and of material. steel across all our packaging formats. Materials used Tonnes 100% • Ensuring that 40 percent of the PET we use is recycled PET and/or PET from Aluminum 51,469 renewable materials. Steel 38,670 Continue to ensure that 100 percent of our cans • Ensuring that 100 percent of our cans and bottles are fully recyclable. PET 115,896 and bottles are fully recyclable. Glass 71,888 • Supporting the development of Support infrastructure and technology to enable recycling of all other packaging materials. Other (primary) 23,144 the wider packaging industry to explore Secondary and tertiary packaging 45,478 next-generation packaging.1 Total 346,545 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014/2015 FACTSHEET 15/30 Sustainable Packaging — continued USING LESS MATERIAL Our long-standing lightweighting program Thomas De Waele Kurt Peelman involves constantly redesigning our packs to Technical Packaging Manager, Manager, use less material, and we continue to make Engineering Procurement progress and lead the industry in lighter packaging. In 2014, we focused our strategy on the lightweighting of aluminum cans and PET bottles, as these will have the biggest impact in reducing our packaging-related carbon emissions. EMPLOYEE SPOTLIGHT We monitor improvements by tracking our packaging use ratio – the average total weight Lightweighting large PET of packaging per liter of product. Our 2014 ratio Three years ago we began a project in Great Britain to lightweight our large PET contour of 120.5g/liter is 19.6 percent less than in 2007 bottles – 1.25L, 1.5L, 1.75L, 2L and 3L. Working with multiple teams across CCE, we conducted (149.5 g/liter). Our 2014 packaging use ratio a number of trials to ensure our products would meet technical and consumer requirements, was up slightly on our 2013 rate (120.1 g/liter) resulting in a thinner, lighter bottle that would still keep our products fresh and maintain their by 0.4 percent, due to an increase in smaller quality. We focused on reducing the weight of the neck finish by 1.25 grams per pre-form packaging sizes, which has an adverse impact and lightweighting the contour bottles from 41.75 grams to 40.3 grams. As a result, we were on our packaging use ratio. able to reduce our material use by 860 metric tonnes and saved 1,789 metric tonnes of CO2e. Lightweighting initiatives in 2014 included: We will continue to implement these changes in Great Britain, and to explore ways to lightweight • Reducing the weight of our large 1.25L, 1.5L our large PET bottles. and 1.75L PET bottles from 41.7g to 40.3g (the 1.75L bottle will be completed in 2015). • Continuing to lightweight our 500ml PET We’re working with NGOs, government, industry Glass bottles. After reducing the weight from 24.7g bodies and local authorities to encourage We use recycled glass in our bottles and to 21.7g in 2013, we brought it down to 19.9g in consumers to recycle more. We also support are working with our suppliers and waste 2014 in Great Britain, Belgium, the Netherlands recycling campaigns such as Metal Matters, management companies to increase the and Sweden – an annual saving of 1,951 Chaque Canette Compte, ‘Happiness Recycled’ recycled content. Across CCE, we used tonnes of CO2e. and numerous in-store and online retail approximately 44 percent recycled glass • Lightweighting the closures on large PET campaigns (see Factsheet 16 ). In parallel, we in our glass bottles in 2014. bottles for sparkling brands in Great Britain are working with aluminum and steel producers Renewable material and our water brand in Belgium. This and can manufacturers to raise the recycled We have also begun investigating the use technically demanding task has gone through content in our packaging. of renewable sources of PET in our packaging. multiple phases of development, and after PET In particular, since 2009, we have used lengthy trials, the new closures will be It takes about 60 percent less energy to PlantBottle™ packaging which is PlantPET introduced in 2015, with expected savings produce recycled PET (rPET) than virgin plastic, derived from sugar cane and molasses. of 1,902 tonnes of CO2e. making rPET the second greatest opportunity In 2014, 27.8 percent of our PET bottles were • Reducing the weight of all our aluminum cans we have to reduce our packaging carbon PlantBottle™, used primarily in SmartWater to below 10g. Work is now underway to further emissions. We are committed to a long-term in Great Britain and in 500ml Coke PET bottles decrease the weight of our cans over the next solution for sourcing high quality rPET for our in Norway and Sweden. We will continue to few years. packaging. As a result, in Great Britain, we have review our use of PlantPET, as well as other established a long-term supply agreement with renewable materials, as part of our overall • Completing a project to lightweight our can ECO Plastics. In France, we have invested in commitment in the years ahead. ends with the final rollout in Sweden in 2014. plastics reprocessing at Infineo Recycling, our Sustainably sourced cardboard • Further reducing the weight of our unprinted joint venture with APPE, which produces enough Most of the corrugated packaging we use film, a saving of 301 tonnes of CO2e a year. In high quality rPET to cover our requirements in comes from recycled sources. However, a 2015, we will continue this work by evaluating France, the Netherlands, Belgium and small proportion of virgin fiber is still needed how printed film can be further lightweighted Luxembourg. for strength and this needs to be carefully without affecting its quality. sourced. We are working with our suppliers In total, our lightweighting initiatives in 2014 to gain Sustainable Forest Management reduced the carbon impact of our business by CASE STUDY accreditation under the Forest Stewardship 9,300 tonnes of CO2e, and avoided the use of Pre-form manufacture at Grigny Council. We have made significant progress in 1,266 metric tonnes of materials. this area, and aim to have all of our cardboard In June 2014, CCE announced a new USING RECYCLED AND RENEWABLE MATERIALS and corrugated packaging FSC certified by the $20.8 million pre-form injection line at our end of 2015. A crucial step in developing sustainable manufacturing facility in Grigny, France. packaging and reducing our carbon footprint The site will now be able to produce its own MAKING OUR PACKAGING RECYCLABLE is to use more material from recycled and bottle pre-forms, using rPET sourced through To ensure a supply of good-quality recycled renewable sources. our Infineo joint venture. This program will material and avoid our packaging going to significantly reduce our carbon emissions Recycled materials landfill, it’s important to design for recyclability resulting from transportation – saving We believe that using recycled material is from the start. All our cans and our glass and 266,000 transport road kilometers and critical within a circular economy and are plastic bottles can be fully recycled. 108 tonnes of CO2e a year. committed to increasing the amount we use in all our packaging. Aluminum and steel It takes 95 percent less energy to produce recycled aluminum than virgin aluminum. Increasing the recycled content of our cans represents our best opportunity to reduce their carbon footprint and is therefore a top priority. 1 In partnership with The Coca-Cola Company. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014/2015 FACTSHEET 16/30 Recycling OUR COMMITMENT HIGHLIGHTS 2014 We will support the development of the circular economy, use recycled 88% of our packaging is recycled. and renewable materials and recycle more packaging than we use. INTRODUCTION Packaging is essential to our business, but is often needlessly thrown away 35.3 million The number of consumer opportunities provided and ends up in landfill. CCE is committed to supporting the development of the circular economy, so that resources are recycled and re-used for as to view brand-led recycle/recover messages. long as possible, feeding back into the economy and ensuring that we can obtain maximum value from our packaging. 27,165 metric tonnes of waste produced at our OUR STRATEGY Research and innovation Following our study in 2013 with the University manufacturing operations. Our recycling strategy focuses on the of Exeter, which researched the recycling following priorities: behavior of 20 households in Great Britain and 99.5% • Recycle more packaging than we use, France, we used the findings to set up an online by championing improvements to recycling challenge. This challenge, launched in collection schemes and supporting the 2014 in partnership with the open innovation of our manufacturing waste is recycled and 14 of recycling industry. platform, OpenIDEO, aimed to crowdsource our 17 manufacturing operations achieved zero ideas to encourage home recycling. Our waste to landfill. • Increase packaging recovery rates by using our brands to educate and inspire objective was to develop the most promising consumers to recycle more often. ideas into practical solutions. From more than 200 ideas submitted, eight SUSTAINABILITY PLAN • Support the wider packaging industry winners were selected. One of these ideas to explore next-generation packaging.1 COMMITMENTS was an app which would provide the user with • Send zero waste to landfill from our own details on how and where packaging could be manufacturing operations. Support Our progress recycled by scanning its barcode. You can read more about the challenge and all the winning ideas on the OpenIDEO challenge page. the development of infrastructure and In 2011, we committed to recycle more technology to enable recycling of all other packaging than we use by 2020. To this Partnerships with retailers packaging materials by 2025. end, we’re working to promote recycling in Having active recycling partnerships with our the industry, ensuring that our packaging is retail customers has been an important part Zero recyclable, investing in recycling infrastructure of our strategy to improve consumer recycling and using our brands to inspire and encourage behavior. During 2014, we increased our consumers to recycle more. As more material partnerships with retailers, running campaigns Send zero waste to landfill from our is recycled, more becomes available and the in Great Britain, France and Belgium. manufacturing operations. recycled content of our packaging can increase In partnership with Tesco, we launched a – all of which reduces our carbon footprint and new online campaign to engage and educate Recycle contributes to the circular economy. We made good progress in 2014, ensuring that consumers in an attempt to boost recycling rates in Great Britain. Tesco customers were more packaging than we use, by championing directed to a dedicated website for the the equivalent of 88 percent of the packaging improvements to collection schemes and ‘Recycling is the Answer’ campaign where we use is recycled. This includes material supporting the recycling industry by 2020. they were invited to ‘pledge, play and recycle’. recycled through our joint venture in France and our recycling partnership in Great Britain. Participants made a commitment to recycle Increase CONSUMER BEHAVIOR AND DISPOSAL more at home and played a themed game, sorting a variety of packaging into the packaging recovery rates by using our brands Working with our customers and other appropriate recycling bin in a virtual kitchen, to educate and inspire consumers to recycle stakeholders, we seek to raise awareness, in return for Tesco Clubcard points or a more often. change people’s environmental behavior money-off coupon. This and other campaigns and encourage recycling. in the past two years have resulted in 47,000 pledges to recycle. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014/2015 FACTSHEET 16/30 Recycling — continued In January 2014, we held a similar program high-profile recycling presence at the Special with Waitrose. The ‘Spin to Recycle’ campaign Olympics European Summer Games in Antwerp CASE STUDY was created to boost at-home recycling by (see employee spotlight). In Great Britain, our encouraging shoppers to pledge to recycle a 2014 Christmas truck tour included a recycling Infineo 2.0 selected material for one month. As a reward, element for the first time. Our new, interactive website offers a virtual consumers received a free gift and were sent We also held retailer tie-in events at festivals tour of our Infineo joint venture, explains an email at the end of the campaign to see in 2014. Participating stores, such as Asda in the principles of the circular economy and how their recycling activity had changed. Great Britain, offered shoppers a chance to outlines the steps in the recycling process. In France, we held a variety of activations with win tickets to The Royal Highland Show. Once Its launch was an important step in reaching Carrefour, Casino and E. Leclerc. At Carrefour, there, event-goers could take part in a fun out to the public and providing education and our premier activation was the Carrefour Cup, range of recycling activities under our information for our stakeholders. For more which was seen by over 118,000 people (see ‘Happiness Recycled’ program. The message information, please visit the Infineo 2.0 site. case study). We repeated our ‘Give a new life was then spread digitally with consumers to your bottle’ campaign at more than 460 invited to share their souvenir pictures on Casino stores, aiming to promote the benefits social media and to take part in an online of recycling, explain the life cycle of a bottle, survey. 40 percent of respondents said the and what and how to recycle. More than ‘Happiness Recycled’ experience had 20 million consumers had an opportunity improved their recycling behavior. to see the campaign. COLLECTION AND SORTING Recycling partnerships In 2014, Chaque Canette Compte (CCC) and To reduce the amount of soft drinks packaging CCE created a joint Recycling Village at Braderie sent to landfill, we work with policymakers, de Lille, where CCC’s up-cycling stand was industry partners and national recovery Milou Hamelers located close to the CCE ‘Happiness Recycled’ schemes. These include Eco-Emballages in Senior Manager, activation. CCC also developed dedicated France, Fost Plus in Belgium, Nedvang in the Recycling sorting boxes for Braderie de Lille including PET Netherlands, Returpack and REPA in Sweden, and can collection. CCE also made it possible Infinitum and Rentpack in Norway, and WRAP, for CCC to work closely with The Coca-Cola Zero Waste Scotland, DEFRA and Valpak in Company during the Paris Games Week, Great Britain. We also support The Resource collecting and recycling the sampling cans Association along with the plastics waste and that were part of the Coca-Cola Zero activation. resource management organization, Recoup, and the aluminum packaging recycling EMPLOYEE SPOTLIGHT This resulted in a recycling rate of 94 percent. organization, Alupro, in Great Britain. Recycling at Special Olympics Festivals and events In 2014, recycling activities took place at RE-USE AND REPROCESSING In September 2014, Antwerp hosted the six music festivals in France, three in the To ensure sufficient supplies of recycled Special Olympics European Summer Games, Netherlands and eight in Belgium. In Great plastic (rPET), we have invested heavily in the and this year we provided support for Britain, we partnered with Zero Waste Scotland, infrastructure for the collection and reprocessing recycling at the event. In addition to providing with employees volunteering at festivals, of materials in France and Great Britain. volunteer recycling teams, who kept the sites helping at interactive recycling bins, educating clean and collected and sorted the waste, we In France, Infineo Recycling, our joint venture the public about recycling and conducting also shared information about improving with APPE – is now in its second year and is recycling behavior surveys. We also had a consumer recycling in a number of ways. In recycling 1.5 billion PET bottles a year. In one case we featured actors in a role-play Great Britain, supplies of rPET have been to demonstrate to consumers how they could secured through a long-term agreement CASE STUDY become ‘Recycling Champions’. In addition, with ECO Plastics. As a result of both initiatives, we partnered with Fost Plus and Sita to set Carrefour Cup we were able to increase the amount of rPET up 45 recycling points in five venues to share we purchased to 34 percent in 2014. the recycling message with visitors. It was a MANUFACTURING WASTE great event to be part of, and the visitors and athletes really embraced the spirit We also continue to reduce the waste going to of recycling. landfill from our manufacturing operations with the aim of achieving zero waste to landfill. In 2014, we sent 99.5 percent of our waste for recycling or for energy recovery and 14 of our manufacturing operations achieved zero waste The Carrefour Cup competition took place to landfill. in the car park of 16 Carrefour stores, sponsored by a variety of partners including Manufacturing waste 20142 Metric CCE. During the four-week tour, members of tonnes the CCE Recycling team and CCE volunteers Total waste produced at CCE 27,165 encouraged 20,000 consumers to spin an manufacturing operations interactive recycling wheel and answer Percentage of waste recycled and/or 99.5% questions on recycling facts, or try to sort sent for waste to energy recovery from packaging into the correct bins. We also CCE manufacturing operations wanted to understand whether people would Recycling 23,853 improve their recycling behavior long-term Landfill 140 as a result of this activation. Following a Waste to energy recovery 3,172 survey conducted one month later, we found that 33 percent of the people who engaged with us said they would recycle more at home as a result of this campaign. 1 In partnership with The Coca-Cola Company. 2 Waste data generated from manufacturing operations, and waste contractor information. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014/2015 ISSUE SHEET 17/30 Issue sheet: Water How can we ensure sustainable water use? ISSUE INSIGHTS “At the current rate of water consumption, two-thirds of the world’s population may 3% Only 3 percent of water on the planet is face water shortages by 2025.”4 fresh water, and only about 1 per cent is WWF readily available for human use.1 WWF 1.2 billion Around 1.2 billion people, or almost one-fifth of the world’s population, live in areas of water scarcity.2 The United Nations 17% Just 17 percent of UK rivers meet the EU Water Framework Directive’s definition of reaching ‘good ecological status’.3 UK Environment Agency Water is the main ingredient in Even if temporary, they may result in increased OUR COMMITMENT production costs or capacity constraints and all of our products. It is also vital affect the growth of agricultural ingredients to our manufacturing processes we use in our products. We will minimize water and is needed to produce the Even in North West Europe there are many impacts in our value agricultural ingredients that are areas, including South East England, southern France and the Flanders region of Belgium, essential to our business. chain, establish a water which experience a high level of water stress and challenges related to water quality. sustainable operation Water is one of the world’s most precious In particular, some the rivers and streams and set the standard for resources. While generally regarded as being abundant in Europe, water is a limited and in areas where sugar beet (one of our key agricultural ingredients) is grown in Europe water efficiency. increasingly stressed resource in many parts of the world. are facing a significant level of stress. At a local level, water stress is often compounded In many regions, water sources have been by over-abstraction, which can increase the affected by over exploitation, increasing concentration of pollutants, lower river levels demand for food products, poor water and damage river habitats and wildlife. management and the impacts of climate This is why we adopt a holistic approach to change. Water and water-related crises are water stewardship – working to protect the among the top global risks identified annually future sustainability of the water sources we by the World Economic Forum. rely upon, striving to be an efficient user of Water scarcity and the deterioration of the water, recycling and re-using our water where quality of water sources in our own territories – possible, and ensuring that we can replenish and across our supply chain – are a significant the water we use in areas of water stress. issue for Coca-Cola Enterprises. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014/2015 ISSUE SHEET 17/30 Water — continued Pete Smith Belinda Fletcher Supply Chain Operations Director, Head of Food and Water, Jordbro, Sweden, WWF – UK Coca-Cola Enterprises A VIEW FROM COCA-COLA A VIEW FROM WWF ENTERPRISES Globally, our freshwater environment is under threat. WWF’s 2014 Living Planet Index shows At Coca-Cola Enterprises, water is our most that populations of freshwater species have declined by 76 percent since 1970. Climate important ingredient. Without water in the right change impacts such as increased weather variability (including a greater frequency of floods quantity and of the right quality, we don’t have a and droughts), coupled with population growth and increased water consumption, also pose product – so it’s vital we treat water with respect. a major challenge. That means protecting the quality of our local In fact, the World Economic Forum’s 2015 Global Risk Report ranked ‘water crises’ as the water sources and making sure we are as risk with the biggest potential impact to global growth. The food and beverage industry efficient as possible in our own use of water. is particularly susceptible, as agriculture accounts for 70 percent of human water withdrawal. We take any threat to the water around our For companies like Coca-Cola Enterprises, assessment of water-related risks and impacts manufacturing operations, or in our supply chain, should be the first step in any plan to tackle these challenges and enable the development very seriously. We place a significant emphasis and implementation of suitable action plans. However, companies also need to provide on continually assessing the vulnerability of our financial and political support to encourage the better management of river catchments. local water sources and regularly develop plans Coca-Cola Enterprises cannot do this alone. We welcome the way it has engaged with WWF, to address risks and do what is necessary to local farmers and community groups in developing catchment plans and river protection and protect the future sustainability of the water conservation work on the River Nar and River Cray in England, as well as the voice of support sources we use. it has provided for improved policy and legislation on issues that can’t be overcome at the I have worked at a variety of sites at Coca-Cola catchment level. Enterprises over the past 20 years – all of them Coca-Cola Enterprises has started the journey towards good water stewardship. However, a in locations which normally have high quality, long road lies ahead. The next challenge includes ensuring that water risks and impacts are abundant water supplies. However, even these mitigated on a larger scale across its geographies, and that it can use its influence to areas can experience the impacts of water stress. encourage policy makers to recognize the need for action to ensure the durability of positive When I worked at Wakefield in water-abundant outcomes from water protection projects such as those on the River Nar and River Cray. Yorkshire, we found water supplies running low during periods of summer drought. As a result, we had to switch from using the municipal water supply to using water sourced from our local river – which required additional treatment and processing. At sites like Morpeth, where we package Abbey Well spring water, we place significant emphasis on safeguarding our water source and monitoring its quality. Across all of our sites, we aim to use as little water as possible. At our Morpeth facility we managed to reduce our water-use ratio during the five years I was there – largely by implementing water-saving projects, many of which began as innovative ideas proposed by members of our team. Focusing on water quality and efficient water use does more than simply conserve precious water resources. It helps to make our whole operation more efficient, creates a better end product and allows us to offer great value to our consumers. 1 WWF 2 The United Nations 3 UK Environment Agency 4 WWF Photography: Copyright Hugh Mehta, WWF-UK CCE employees helping with river replenishment on the River Cray, near our Sidcup manufacturing operations. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014/2015 FACTSHEET 18/30 Water Stewardship River replenishment work on the River Nar and the River Cray. OUR COMMITMENT HIGHLIGHTS 2014 We will minimize water impacts through our value chain, establish a 100% water sustainable operation and set the standard for water efficiency. In 2014, 100 percent of our wastewater was INTRODUCTION treated to standards supporting aquatic life. Water is a precious resource, critical to our communities, our ecosystems and the sustainability of our business. It is also the main ingredient in 8.48 million m3 In 2014, we used a total of 8.48 million cubic our beverages and essential to our manufacturing processes and to the key agricultural ingredients we use. meters of water, a 2 percent decrease from the previous year. USING LESS WATER OUR STRATEGY Being water-efficient is key to our $1.17m As responsible stewards of water, we aim to stewardship strategy. In 2014, our total water use as little water as possible for each liter consumption was 8.48 million cubic meters (m3), of beverage we produce. Our target is to use In 2014, we invested $1.17m in water-reduction down 2 percent compared to 2013, and our 1.2 liters of water per liter of product we make. technologies. wastewater volume was 2.7 million m3, an Our water stewardship program focuses on increase of 3.5 percent versus 2013. four priorities: 1.3 We monitor our water-efficiency by calculating • Protecting the water sources that supply our water use ratio – the amount of water we our operations and communities. need to produce a liter of product. In 2014, we We used 1.36 liters of water to make 1 liter • Reducing the amount of water we use by used 1.36 liters/liter, which was 17 percent down of product, in 2014. becoming more water-efficient. on 2007 (1.64 liters/liter) and flat versus 2013.2 • Returning to nature the water used in our We are committed to achieving a water use beverages, where it is sourced from areas ratio of 1.2 liters/liter by 2020. While we can’t SUSTAINABILITY PLAN of water stress, by investing in communityreduce the amount of water in our products, COMMITMENTS based water programs.1 we’ve made great strides in making our • Minimizing water impacts in our value chain manufacturing and cleaning processes more water-efficient. Since 2011, we have invested 100% Protect the future sustainability of the water through our sustainable sourcing programs. This factsheet focuses on priority two – those activities that take place within our more than $2.8 million in process optimization and technologies such as water meters, water mapping and monitoring and targeting systems. sources we use and safely return to nature operations. For priorities one, three and four, But now that these investments have been 100 percent of the wastewater from our see Factsheets 19 and 21. made, each further step becomes more manufacturing operations by 2020.1 challenging. Future progress will depend WATER USE RATIO increasingly on behavioral change and sharing 1.2 PROGRESS 2007–2014 AND TARGET2 best practice across CCE. Our target is to achieve a water use ratio of 1.34 liters/liter in 2015. Liters water used to make one liter of product As part of our drive for improvement, we Reduce the amount of water we use, aiming 1.64 1.57 1.51 1.48 1.43 operate company-wide water monitoring. 1.40 1.36 1.36 to manufacture every liter of product using an 1.20 Targets are set annually and reduction average of 1.2 liters of water by 2020. options are identified, modeled and reviewed by senior management. 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 20133 2014 2020 target CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014/2015 FACTSHEET 18/30 Water Stewardship — continued In 2013, we achieved the Carbon Trust Water Dry and semi-dry lubricants Other water-saving initiatives Standard and our manufacturing operations in Conveyors in our plants used to be lubricated Rainwater harvesting systems are used Dongen in the Netherlands and Chaudfontaine with soapy water. With the final change-over to wash vehicles and flush toilets at our in Belgium were awarded the gold-level at Jordbro in Sweden in 2014, most conveyors manufacturing operations in Northampton, European Water Stewardship Standard. Issued moving cans and PET bottles now use dry Great Britain, and Chaudfontaine and Antwerp under the European Water Framework Directive, lubricants instead – saving between 4,000 and in Belgium. the Standard recognizes excellence at every 8,000m3 of water a year for each conveyor stage of water management from the protection depending on its length. We also use semi-dry Tomasz Parzyk of water sources, through efficient use of water, lubricants for our stainless steel conveyors for Environment Manager, to the quality of wastewater we release into the glass bottles at Antwerp in Belgium, Dongen Wakefield, Great Britain environment. Plans are in place for other CCE in the Netherlands, Clamart and Marseille in sites to prepare for the requirements of the France and Gent in Belgium – the last two Directive. adopting the technology in 2014. This saves a further 4,000m3 of water a year per conveyor. WASTEWATER TREATMENT Air rinsers We have high standards for all water returned When machinery is replaced or new lines are to the environment – compliance with local installed, we switch to ionized air instead of EMPLOYEE SPOTLIGHT regulations being the minimum requirement across CCE. We’re committed to ensuring that water for rinsing bottles and cans before they Saving water in Wakefield are filled. With new air rinsers installed in 2014 100 percent of our wastewater is treated to a on two plastic bottle lines in Wakefield, Great As the Environment Manager at Wakefield, level that supports aquatic life and maintained Britain, 55 percent of our bottle and can lines I work closely with the team of 200 this standard in 2014. now use the technology. Where new air rinsers technicians who assess the production lines While most of our manufacturing operations are not possible, we’re installing more efficient on a regular basis and see where we can pre-treat wastewater on site and then send nozzles and recycling the water (see employee either reduce or eliminate the use of water. In it to municipal water treatment plants, our spotlight). 2014, we identified three key projects, saving manufacturing operations at Gent and a total of 23,500m3 – enough water to supply Bottle washers Chaudfontaine in Belgium, Wakefield in an average family household for 170 years. Some of the heaviest consumers of water on Great Britain and Marseille in France carry The first project involved fitting a new type of our lines are the machines for washing refillable out full wastewater treatment on site. Of nozzle to the equipment used to rinse cans glass bottles. We continue to invest in new, more our total wastewater in 2014 (2.6 million m3), and bottles before they are filled. The new efficient machines, each representing a huge 1.9 million m3 was treated by municipal nozzles produce a more focused spray of investment but bringing major benefits. A new wastewater treatment stations and 686,722m3 water, which allows us to have the same $2 million bottle washer installed in Marseille, by our own treatment plants.4 quality cleaning, but using less water. For the France in 2014, will save around 15,000m3 of second project, we designed new micro filters As we consume less water in our processes, water per year. (a water collection and filtration system) to the amount of wastewater needing to be Cleaning optimization filter water collected from the bottle rinsing treated also reduces. In 2014, this was We have improved our ‘Clean in Place’ (CIP) process before re-using it, so delivering a 25 percent less than in 2007. In addition we processes by using air rather than water where 75 percent reduction in water use. In the third have heavily invested in wastewater treatment possible, using cold water and recovering the project, we replaced water with ionized air to technology – $2.5 million in 2014, and water we use for re-use within our cleaning rinse our bottles. These combined projects $6.5 million since 2007. systems. We have also made progress with enabled Wakefield to improve its performance WATER REDUCTION AND RE-USE using electro chemically activated (ECA) water, in 2014, and we are committed to continuing a process that combines electrolyzed salt this journey. Technological innovation is an important part with water to create a disinfecting solution. of our water reduction and recycling strategy. This process was piloted in some of our We continued our program in 2014, investing French manufacturing operations, including more than $1.1 million in piloting and Marseille in 2011, Grigny in 2013 and Dunkerque implementing new technologies, including: in 2014. We plan to install this process at our Water re-use manufacturing operations at our site in To purify the water that goes into our drinks, Clamart, France in 2015. we use resin granules which need to be regularly regenerated and rinsed. In 2013, our manufacturing operations in Dunkerque, France CASE STUDY developed a system for re-using the water from New glass bottle washer in Marseille the regeneration and rinsing process, saving around 15,000m3 a year. In 2014, the same technology was transferred to Sidcup in Great Britain, saving around 14,500m3 of water a year. We estimate that this resulted in a saving of approximately $50,000. We plan to implement this technology at Dongen in the Netherlands in 2015. Monitoring Along with the re-use of rinsing water at Manufacturing Execution Systems (MES) linked Sidcup, the biggest water-saving project of to our production processes can track how much 2014 was the installation of new washing water is being consumed in real time and allow equipment for refillable glass bottles at operators to take action if targets are being Marseille in France. This follows a similar exceeded. The first MES was installed at Dongen project at Clamart, France in 2010. Together, in the Netherlands in 2012. 1 In partnership with The Coca-Cola Company. the two new machines are saving 60,000m3 2 Data gathered through internal KORE management and ISO 14001 systems. of water a year. 3 2013 figures restated due to revisions in production liter volumes. 4 Determined through volume and quality of wastewater in compliance with local licenses. Data gathered through internal KORE management and ISO 14001 systems. Photography: Copyright Hugh Mehta, WWF-UK. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014/2015 FACTSHEET 19/30 Protecting and Replenishing the Water We Use OUR COMMITMENT HIGHLIGHTS 2014 We will protect the future sustainability of our water sources. 100% of our manufacturing operations have Where the water used in our beverages is sourced from areas of water stress, we will return an equivalent amount to nature by investing in community-based water programs. implemented Source Water Protection Plans. INTRODUCTION 12% of the water used in our beverages, where it Water is one of nature’s most precious resources – critical to our communities, our ecosystems and the sustainability of our business. has been sourced from areas of water stress, Although North West Europe is generally thought not to suffer from has been replenished in 2014. water stress, increasingly disruptive weather patterns and the effects of flooding are raising concerns regarding water quality, leading to 286,000m3 water saved through annual water water stress, especially in more densely populated areas. replenishment programs to date. OUR STRATEGY quality, current water stresses and potential risks arising from extreme weather conditions Being a water-sustainable operation or natural disasters. involves four elements: SUSTAINABILITY PLAN Drawing on the findings of their SVAs, all our • Protecting the water sources that plants now have Source Water Protection Plans COMMITMENTS supply our manufacturing operations (SWPPs) that take account of future water and communities. needs and identify any mitigation plans that Return • Reducing the amount of water we use by becoming more water-efficient. may be required. These plans are reviewed and updated as necessary. to nature the water used in our beverages, • Returning to nature the water used in our REPLENISHING OUR WATERSHEDS where it is sourced from areas of water stress, beverages, where it is sourced from areas by investing in community-based water of water stress, by investing in communityThe Coca-Cola system around the world is programs by 2020.1 based water programs. working to replenish the water used in its finished beverages through community projects • Minimizing water impacts on our such as reforestation, aquifer protection and value chain through our sustainable Minimize sourcing programs. This factsheet focuses on priorities one, three river revitalization. As part of this global approach, we at CCE have water impacts in our value chain through chosen to invest in replenishment programs in our sustainable sourcing programs. and four – those activities which take place areas of water stress within our countries of outside our manufacturing operations. For operation. In 2014, we have expanded our water more information on our activities within our replenishment programs so that we now have manufacturing operations, see Factsheet 18. water-based community projects in three of our regions of operation, identified as suffering from PROTECTING OUR WATER SOURCES high water stress2 – South East England, the We understand the importance of protecting our South East of France and Flanders in Belgium. In water sources and the quality of the water they 2014, six of our 17 plants were located in areas hold. Most of the water we use – 77 percent or of water stress, accounting for 38 percent of our 6.5 million cubic meters (m3) – comes from production and drawing 2.34 million m3 of water municipal sources and 23 percent (1.9 million m3) from local sources for their beverages. from on-site wells, all of which are licensed. Water sourced by volume and type3 As part of protecting our water for the future, Million all our manufacturing operations have carried cubic % of total out Source Vulnerability Assessments (SVAs). meters used This assesses potential risks in terms of water Municipal 6,549 77.24 quality and future availability for our business, Borehole 1,928 22.74 the local community and the wider ecosystem. Rainwater Harvesting 2 0.02 Within each catchment, SVAs evaluate local TOTAL 8,479 100 water resource systems, past and present water CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014/2015 FACTSHEET 19/30 Protecting and Replenishing the Water We Use — continued South East England Flanders 2014 saw the completion of a three-year In partnership with a local NGO, Natuurpunt, CASE STUDY partnership with The Coca-Cola Company and we are restoring nature in the Stappersven Replenishing water from the World Wildlife Fund (WWF)-UK to protect and Lake – part of the unique 6,000-hectare nature replenish two English rivers – the Nar in Norfolk reserve De Zoom-Kalmthoutse Heathland Park. River Nar to the Camargue and the Cray near our manufacturing operations This park is considered one of Europe’s top at Sidcup in Kent. Each involved working with nature reserves and was included in Natura partners to develop local catchment plans and 2000 – a network of protected nature reserves on-the-ground projects to restore water and throughout Europe. Over the next five years, we improve its quality. In the Nar, we worked with will be working with Natuurpunt and other local the Norfolk Rivers Trust and local farmers to partners to repair the local environment and prevent agricultural pollution running into the improve the habitat for local exotic wildlife. river by changing practices over 2,000 acres of land. We have replenished 203,000m3 of water MINIMIZING OUR VALUE CHAIN IMPACT We made a commitment four years ago to in the Nar in 2014, and 286,000m3 over the Around 80 percent of the total water footprint replenish an amount equivalent to the water course of the three year project, restoring of our products comes from our agricultural we use in areas where we operate that 3.3 kilometers of river habitat. In the Cray, we supply chain – in particular, the production suffer from water stress. In 2012, we began worked with the North West Kent Countryside and processing of sugar and fruit juice. For our partnership with WWF to secure a thriving Partnership, volunteers from our Sidcup CCE, much of the sugar we use is from sugar future for two English chalk streams – the manufacturing operation and the local beet grown within our countries of operation. River Nar and River Cray. At the end of this community to improve a four-kilometer stretch In assessing the water footprint of sugar three-year program we exceeded our of the river. beet production, we need to bear in mind replenishment target by 36,300m3, returning The benefits from the project are wider than that a large footprint might be sustainable in more than 286,000m3 to the ecosystem. We the amount of water replenished. We are using a water-rich area while a smaller footprint in also learned important lessons which we what we have learnt from the partnership to a water-scarce region could have a far greater have shared with stakeholders. As a result promote good water stewardship nationally environmental impact. In view of these the UK Government has adopted a new policy and to work with government to support the geographical differences, we’ve been working to tackle damaging abstraction. implementation of the EU Water Framework with our European sugar beet processors to We have now expanded our partnership Directive. The Directive requires that all rivers develop bespoke standards that support our with WWF to the Camargue region in France, in England and Wales meet ‘good ecological Sustainable Agriculture Guiding Principles (see which will aim to restore the natural flow of status’ by 2015. The lessons learned from this Factsheet 21). the River Rhône. We are also working with project have been shared and have helped Since 2009, we have run four water footprinting Natuurpunt, a local NGO in Belgium, to shape UK water abstraction policy. In addition, programs to understand our impact across the restore the Stappersven Lake over the next we have hosted multiple stakeholder events value chain. These began with projects looking five years. to encourage the action of others in industry at the water footprint of a 0.5 liter PET bottle of Four years on, we are proud to have and government on these issues. Most recently, Coca-Cola produced in Dongen, in conjunction established these partnerships, and will we worked with the WWF to develop the with the University of Twente. These were now work to meet our target of replenishing ‘State of England’s Chalk Streams’ report followed with projects to understand the water 100 percent of the water we use in areas of and film in November 2014. As a result of the footprint of sugar beet in 2011 with Denkstatt water stress by 2020. successes achieved through this partnership, and the Technical University of Vienna. In 2014, CCE has been recognized by government and we extended this work to understand the water environmental bodies as a key partner in the footprint of cane sugar imported into Europe national debate on the protection of rivers. with the Water Footprint Network and Twente We are currently working with WWF-UK and University, as well as developing a further The Coca-Cola Company to understand how understanding of our own water footprint, in we can build on the work and extend the project line with the ISO 14046 methodology. Production to other areas in the East Anglian basin. processes for juice and sugar have emerged South East France as our water footprint ‘hot spots’. We will We are working with WWF in the Camargue continue to develop an understanding of our region of France, near our Marseille water footprint in 2015 and beyond. manufacturing operations, to restore the natural flow of the River Rhône through approximately 6500 hectares of the wetlands in the Camargue. The flow has been adversely affected by industry and agriculture and the project will replenish some 1.2 million m3 of water – a significant volume equivalent to 50 percent of our overall replenishment target. 1 In partnership with The Coca-Cola Company. 2 Identified through our SWPPs. 3 Data gathered through internal KORE management and ISO 14001 systems. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014/2015 ISSUE SHEET 20/30 Issue sheet: Sustainable Sourcing How can we source ingredients sustainably? ISSUE INSIGHTS “When agricultural operations are sustainably managed, they can preserve and restore critical 9 billion habitats, help protect watersheds, and improve The world’s population is set to reach 9 billion soil health and water quality. But unsustainable people by 2050.1 The United Nations practices have serious impacts on people and the environment”.6 Double WWF Global food production will need to double by 2030 to support growth in the world’s population.2 Stockholm Environment Institute 70% Globally, the agricultural sector consumes about 70 percent of the planet’s accessible fresh water.3 WWF 36% Agriculture represents 36 percent of the world’s land surface which is estimated to be suitable for crop production.4 Food and Agriculture Organisation (FAO) As a result, we have an important Global Our products – and the world’s population – depend on a responsibility to hold ourselves and our suppliers to high sourcing standards – population growth is putting unprecedented ensuring that the agricultural ingredients we strain on our natural resources.5 sustainable supply of agricultural use are sourced sustainably, in a way which Rainforest Alliance crops. At the same time, respects human and labor rights, minimizes farming and agriculture are environmental impacts, supports farmers under significant pressure at and sustains local livelihoods. the moment due to population That is why we have made a commitment to source 100 percent of our key agricultural OUR COMMITMENT growth, increased demand for commodities sustainably by 2020. We have food products and the impacts set rigorous processes in place to embed We will sustainably source of climate change. sustainability across our value chain, developed a set of Sustainable Agriculture 100 percent of our key The ongoing sustainability of agricultural crops – and the communities that produce them – is Guiding Principles, and have introduced a rigorous audit process for key suppliers. agricultural ingredients a critical issue for our business. At Coca-Cola Sustainable sourcing is a significant issue Enterprises we use many different agricultural by 2020. ingredients in our products, including sugar across the entire food and beverage industry. It is important that we collaborate with other beet, sugar cane, coffee and fruit. We also use companies, through programs like the pulp and paper in our packaging. Sustainable Agriculture Initiative, and work We recognize that changing weather patterns, together to develop industry standards and rainfall and soil quality in different parts of the share best practices on sustainable sourcing. world in the future may result in decreased availability or increased cost of some of the agricultural ingredients we rely on. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014/2015 ISSUE SHEET 20/30 Sustainable Sourcing — continued Malik Bechar Peter Erik Ywema Senior Manager, Procurement, General Manager, Coca-Cola Enterprises Sustainable Agriculture Initiative (SAI) A VIEW FROM COCA-COLA ENTERPRISES A VIEW FROM SAI At Coca-Cola Enterprises, I am responsible for ensuring that our sugar is sourced sustainably. It’s important to realize how dependent Most of the sugar we buy comes from sugar beet grown in Europe, but a certain amount is large companies are on farmers for their sourced from sugar cane that’s grown mainly in developing countries. The way sugar is agricultural supplies. If companies like harvested and produced is very different from one location to another. In Europe, our main focus Coca-Cola Enterprises don’t take care of is on environmental issues – working with our suppliers to reduce the use of pesticides, take up the farming sector, they face the danger less land and reduce the use of water. In cane-producing countries, we have a dual focus on of not being able to source the right quality environmental issues and human and labor rights – given that working conditions in these and quantity of agricultural raw materials countries are often less regulated than in Europe. in the future. We recognize the impact that we have on the livelihood of farmers in developing countries, and To manage sustainable sourcing, companies wish to work with our suppliers to improve local working conditions – thereby helping the farming need to address the environmental as well sector to grow sustainably. as the social and economic aspects of This requires collaboration on many levels. We need to work with a wide range of stakeholders farming. If farmers can’t make a decent living including other food and drinks companies though forums such as the Sustainable Agriculture and if farms are not economically viable, Initiative. We also need to work closely with sugar refiners to help them reduce their water use there may be no one to produce sugar beet and carbon footprint, and with the sugar cane growers to share best practice on sustainable in 20 years’ time. Increasingly, the industry agriculture. should recognize and value the link between the farmer and the product on the We have an opportunity to take the lead and set the standard for sustainable sourcing. By supermarket shelf. meeting our responsibilities, we can help to ensure a sustainable supply of key agricultural ingredients while providing stable livelihoods and a better environment for farmers. Companies need to support the environmental aspects of sustainable sourcing – working with farmers on water conservation, biodiversity, pollution and deforestation. In particular, the issue of soil management is increasingly important as it helps prevent erosion, keeps soil productive and biologically sound and traps carbon, thus reducing greenhouse gas emissions. Healthy soil is also better able to absorb water, protecting against drought and floods. Achieving these objectives requires farmers to follow agreed industry standards. However, having many different buyers imposing their own sustainability codes just makes life impossible and costly for farmers. I’d like to see fewer, more coordinated standards for sustainable farming, so that producers can get on with producing and the wider industry can support best practice. A field of sugar beet in Norfolk, UK. 1 The United Nations 2 Stockholm Environment Institute 3 WWF 4 Food and Agriculture Organisation at the United Nations 5 Rainforest Alliance 6 WWF Photography: Copyright Hugh Mehta, WWF-UK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014/2015 FACTSHEET 21/30 Sustainable Agriculture OUR COMMITMENT HIGHLIGHTS 2014 We will work with our suppliers to ensure that we sustainably 100% of our key sugar suppliers are committed to source 100 percent of our key agricultural ingredients by 2020. INTRODUCTION complying with our SAGPs by 2020. Agriculture is at the heart of our business. Every bottle of Coca-Cola contains agricultural ingredients that start on a farm – as do many SUSTAINABILITY PLAN of our other products. COMMITMENT 100% Sustainably source 100 percent of our key agricultural ingredients by 2020.1 Sustainable Agriculture Guiding Principles (SAGPs) SUSTAINABLE AGRICULTURE Human and workplace rights OUR STRATEGY GUIDING PRINCIPLES • Freedom of association and collective The long-term availability of our key bargaining At the heart of our strategy to achieve our agricultural ingredients is crucial to our sustainable agriculture objectives are our • Prohibit child labor, forced labor and abuse business. However, common agricultural Sustainable Agriculture Guiding Principles of labor practices must evolve to become more (SAGPs), which have been developed in efficient and address the challenges of topsoil • Eliminate discrimination partnership with The Coca-Cola Company and loss, fresh water depletion and greenhouse set out expectations for suppliers across 14 main • Work hours and wages gas emissions. In our own value chain, agricultural ingredients. This work is overseen agriculture accounts for the largest share • Safe and healthy workplace by our Sustainable Agriculture Steering Group. of the water we use and is the third-largest • Community and traditional rights source of carbon emissions. Social challenges Launched in 2013, our SAGPs operate in for some of our commodities, including conjunction with our Supplier Guiding Principles Environment (see Factsheet 22) and apply specifically to working conditions and workplace rights, • Water management suppliers of agricultural ingredients. also need to be addressed. • Energy management and climate protection At CCE, we will work with The Coca-Cola The principles set out what we mean by • Conservation of natural habitats and Company to sustainably source 100 percent ‘sustainable sourcing’ and include standards ecosystems of our key agricultural ingredients by 2020. and criteria that suppliers will be expected to meet in terms of human and workplace • Soil management At CCE, we are working with The Coca-Cola rights, the environment and sustainable farm • Crop protection Company to develop our approach to management practices. Having shared our sustainable agriculture and to ensure that by SAGPs with our sugar beet and sugar cane Management systems suppliers, we are now working with them to 2020, the global Coca-Cola system sources its • Harvest and postharvest handling develop plans to ensure that we can jointly meet key agricultural ingredients sustainably. We • Reproductive material identity, selection have thus far focused our work on sugar these principles by 2020. Validating compliance and handling beet and sugar cane, and will expand this to to our SAGPs will be done through the use of other agricultural ingredients from 2015. For third-party standards, such as the Sustainable • Management systems, record keeping Agricultural Initiative (SAI) and Bonsucro. information on how we manage sustainability and transparency with our suppliers as a whole, please see • Business integrity Factsheet 22. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014/2015 FACTSHEET 21/30 Sustainable Agriculture — continued SUSTAINABLE SUGAR helps to certify biofuels, including those from certified, allowing Coca-Cola system bottlers, Analyzing the water footprint of our product sugar beet. The FSA is designed to help farmers including CCE, to accurately trace the origins of has shown that the farming, processing and meet the expectations of many different our cane sugar. production of sugar can account for up to customers in the sugar value chain. Through To accelerate our move towards sustainably 80 percent of a product’s total water footprint. the FSA, farmers will be able to assess sourced cane sugar in Europe, we are working It is therefore essential that the sugar cane themselves against industry-agreed best with the Rainforest Alliance to develop our and sugar beet we use in North West Europe practices for sustainable farming in Europe understanding of the sustainability risks and is sustainably sourced. Understanding the and gain verification that they comply with our current best practices in the cane sugar supply different sustainability issues and supply chains own SAGPs and those of their other customers. chain in Europe. The Rainforest Alliance has of these two very different crops is central to our We believe using the FSA will help farmers, conducted farm-level field assessments with sustainable agriculture strategy. processors, and sugar beet customers by sugar suppliers in some key sugar cane growing Sustainable beet improving yields, reducing inputs, protecting countries. We expect this work to be complete At CCE, the majority of the sugar we use soil and helping farmers improve their farm by early 2015, and will develop a report and comes from sugar beet, a root crop widely management capabilities. Following a pilot with recommendations based on its findings. grown in North West Europe. It is a critical part sugar beet farmers in 2014, the FSA is now being As with beet sugar, we are working with our of our supply chain, and compliance to our rolled out across Europe (see external spotlight). suppliers to develop a timetable for compliance SAGPs by our sugar beet suppliers is highly Our aim is that our sugar beet suppliers will with our SAGPs through a third-party standard. important. We, along with The Coca-Cola achieve compliance with our SAGPs through the We aim to ensure that all of our sugar cane is Company, have established several pathways SAI, or other programs, by 2020. We continue to sustainably sourced by 2020. to compliance for our sugar beet suppliers work with them towards this objective. through third-party standards. OTHER KEY AGRICULTURAL INGREDIENTS Sustainable cane Our preferred method is the SAI Platform. Sugar cane is a grass crop grown in subtropical We have recently set a target to sustainably This was developed in conjunction with other regions of the world. At CCE, a small percentage source our key agricultural ingredients by major FMCG brands and Europe’s sugar beet of the sugar we use comes from sugar cane. 2020. These will include a variety of ingredients producers in order to harmonize and provide Under the existing EU sugar regime, around including orange, lemon, apple and grape fruit clarity around industry expectations for 6 percent of CCE’s sugar cane imports come juices, coffee, and pulp and paper products, sustainable sourcing. Through this program, from developing countries which have which are used in our packaging. We also we have collaborated to develop a farm-level preferential trading relationships with the EU. purchase very low volumes of other fruit juices, self-assessment tool – the Farm Sustainability and these will also be reviewed as part of this Through The Coca-Cola Company, there are work. We will begin working this year with Assessment (FSA). multiple third-party standards under which a suppliers and third-party frameworks to The FSA was developed from existing supplier can be certified to meet our SAGPs. establish programs that will allow farmers to certification programs, including The Global These include Bonsucro, the Rainforest Alliance comply with our SAGPs. We will continue to Partnership for Good Agricultural Practice Standard and Fairtrade. Of these, The Coca-Cola expand our reporting on these agricultural (GLOBALG.A.P. – a global food safety assurance Company has played an important role in the ingredients in the future. standard); The UK’s Red Tractor farm assurance establishment of Bonsucro. Most recently, The standard; and the International Sustainability Coca-Cola Company, on behalf of the system and Carbon Certification program (ISCC), which bottlers, has become Bonsucro Chain of Custody Jan Burger Sustainability Manager, The Coca-Cola Company EXTERNAL SPOTLIGHT The Farm Sustainability Assessment Through the Sustainable Agriculture Initiative (SAI), we have worked together with industry and sugar beet producers to develop the Farm Sustainability Assessment (FSA), which aims to reduce carbon and water footprints and improve biodiversity. The FSA will reduce risks in the supply chain and make it more resilient against the impacts of climate change. In October 2014, the FSA was rolled out to all major sugar beet suppliers for implementation. Working with the SAI Platform provides an industry-aligned approach that drives scale, speed and credibility. Working with external partners has been a real privilege and I look forward to seeing its success in the years to come. 1 In partnership with The Coca-Cola Company. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014/2015 FACTSHEET 22/30 Suppliers and Sustainability PET forms INTRODUCTION HIGHLIGHTS 2014 We recognize that our suppliers are essential partners in our sustainability 140 We are working with 140 of our key suppliers journey. From analyzing our water and carbon footprint, we found that our most significant environmental impacts occur outside our own business, in our value chain. to reduce their carbon emissions. Supplier Guiding Principles (SGPs) 5th OUR STRATEGY We believe collaboration and innovation Our SGPs outline minimum requirements Our fifth Supplier Sustainability meeting was throughout our supply chain are essential in and address the following key areas: held virtually in 2014, deep diving on the circular advancing our sustainable growth. We want • Laws and regulations economy and sustainable agriculture. to inspire and drive sustainable change with those we work with, as well as through our • Child labor own organization. We have embedded • Forced labor 75% 75 percent of our procurement spend in 2014 sustainability into our procurement processes and supplier relationships, and have developed additional programs to support • Abuse of labor • F reedom of association and collective bargaining was in countries where we operate and strategic opportunities for collaboration. • Discrimination 96 percent was within the EU. Our sustainable procurement strategy focuses on three pillars: • Wages and benefits $4.4 billion • Our people: training our procurement • Work hours and overtime teams on sustainability. • Health and safety • Our procurement processes: ensuring • Environment $4.4 billion spent with approximately our processes support sustainable • Demonstration of compliance 12,700 suppliers in 2014. purchasing decisions. • Our suppliers: encouraging our suppliers 68% 68 percent of our spend with suppliers was to improve their own sustainability performance. covered by contracts containing our Supplier OUR PEOPLE Guiding Principles (SGPs) in 2014. Our procurement teams are instrumental in our ability to work with suppliers and improve sustainability in our value chain. To ensure our SUSTAINABILITY PLAN procurement teams have the skills required, we have developed a training toolkit which COMMITMENT provides them with the training needed to work with suppliers to identify sustainability Reduce opportunities, further drive our sustainability ambitions and help build long-term supplier Work in partnership with our suppliers to reduce value. This toolkit is made up of three carbon emissions across our value chain. modules: • Module 1: CCE’s sustainability journey and commitments. • Module 2: CCE’s expectations of suppliers and how to use our supplier scorecard. • Module 3: Sustainability issues related to specific commodities. All of our procurement managers who work directly with suppliers have now received this training. In 2014, we focused on further embedding this toolkit through e-learning. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014/2015 FACTSHEET 22/30 Suppliers and Sustainability — continued OUR PROCUREMENT PROCESSES We want to ensure that our suppliers Melanie Leroy Yuichiro Kamikawa understand and adhere to CCE’s sustainability Senior Manager, Senior Manager, standards and, where possible, we also align Procurement Supply Chain to the common Coca-Cola Company standards. We uphold these through our CCE Code of Business Conduct and our Supplier Guiding Principles, as well as through regular audits. These are outlined below: Code of Business Conduct EMPLOYEE SPOTLIGHT Our Code of Business Conduct outlines the Carbon challenge principles by which we operate and how we work with our suppliers. The code is available Melanie: In 2014, our PET, aluminum can and glass suppliers all progressed to the ‘high impact’ on our website, www.cokecce.com. category in our carbon challenge. This was achieved through a collaborative project between Supplier Guiding Principles CCE’s procurement and technical teams and our suppliers to further develop the information Our Supplier Guiding Principles (SGPs) set out requested from our suppliers. the minimum requirements we expect our Yui: Working closely with our suppliers’ environmental specialists during this project has suppliers to adhere to, including labor laws and provided us with greater visibility of the carbon footprint of our packaging in our supply chain. regulations, health and safety, human rights, Carbon is often a complex subject, and is one where calculations and impact areas vary environment and business integrity. These SGPs between each of our major packaging materials. Our collaboration has enabled both CCE are in line with those of the Coca-Cola system. and our suppliers to share key data points, so that we can jointly improve our carbon footprint. They reflect and communicate our principles As a result of this project, some of our suppliers have adopted a carbon reduction target and emphasize the importance of responsible aligned to ours, strengthening the basis for our ongoing collaboration. workplace policies and practices, respect for Melanie: This project was piloted with the majority of our packaging suppliers, but will be human rights and environmental protection. expanded to other commodities in order to strengthen the level of expertise and clarity required SGPs are included in all new contracts and are to tackle such a complex topic. being incorporated into multi-year contracts during their renewal. In 2014, 68 percent of our spend with suppliers was covered by contracts The CRS component of the SRM is made up CCE’S CARBON CHALLENGE PROCESS containing our SGPs. of two inputs: A supplier’s CRS score is an important We took these SGPs further in 2014, by adopting • A sustainability rating from an independent part of the SRM process, receiving the same The Coca-Cola Company’s Sustainable company, EcoVadis. weighting as other SRM criteria. Outstanding Agriculture Guiding Principles (SAGPs) for • The results from our suppliers’ ‘Carbon performance is recognized annually by our suppliers of sugar beet and sugar cane as part Challenge’. Supplier of the Year Awards. In 2014, our CRS of our sustainable agriculture program. We are Supplier of the Year was Brammer. now developing bespoke tools to support our ECOVADIS CCE’s carbon challenge process sustainable sourcing strategy (for more The EcoVadis scorecard evaluates our suppliers information see Factsheet 21). against four criteria – environmental, social, Measure, reduce Over the past three years, The Coca-Cola ethical and supply chain management. Their and share Company has undertaken a series of audits, score is provided to suppliers, and used to Measure through independent third-party auditors, to develop joint action plans which will allow and reduce monitor supplier compliance to the Coca-Cola suppliers to raise their rating and reduce system SGPs. To date, over two-thirds of our their risk. Since we introduced the EcoVadis Measure suppliers of ingredients and packaging have assessment process in 2012, average scores been covered by these audits. of our suppliers have dramatically improved, In addition, CCE, along with The Coca-Cola showing strong continued progress in all Company, is a member of the AIM-PROGRESS four categories. forum, a global group promoting responsible CARBON CHALLENGE sourcing practices and an audit program CCE’s ‘Carbon Challenge’ is a three-stage designed to align supplier audits and reduce program designed to encourage suppliers duplication and costs for suppliers. Our SGP to make progress toward achieving their audits are aligned with AIM-PROGRESS and carbon management goals. Depending on are recognized by its members. Similarly, the commodity or service the supplier provides, Low Medium High we recognize audits carried out on behalf they are given a low, medium or high impact Supplier carbon impact category of other signatory companies. score. As a result of this score, suppliers are OUR SUPPLIERS then directed to a particular phase of the At CCE, we aim to work with our suppliers challenge. If they are a low impact supplier, to encourage them to improve their own they are encouraged to measure their carbon sustainability. Our Supplier Relationship footprint, as a first step. Medium impact Management (SRM) process helps us to suppliers are encouraged to measure and collaborate with suppliers, and provides a reduce their carbon footprint, while high impact management framework under which each suppliers are encouraged to not only measure supplier is evaluated on their performance. and reduce, but also to share their carbon They are rated against quality, cost and value, footprint information by product or commodity. service and innovation, and corporate Where the score is low, we work with the responsibility and sustainability (CRS). supplier to improve their score. In 2014, all of our PET, aluminum can and glass suppliers moved into the ‘high’ impact category – a major step forward for CCE and our suppliers (see employee spotlight). CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014/2015 ISSUE SHEET 23/30 Issue sheet: Employment and Diversity How can we ensure diversity within our workforce? ISSUE INSIGHTS “Diversity is a key driver of innovation and is a critical component of being Older and smaller successful on a global scale.”4 Europe’s working-age population is rapidly Forbes Insights, Innovation Through Diversity becoming older and smaller.1 Economist Intelligence Unit / Towers Watson Three quarters Almost three-quarters (71%) of senior business executives in Europe expect the proportion of their employees aged over 60 to increase by 2020.1 Economist Intelligence Unit / Towers Watson 40 million There will be a global shortage of 38 to 40 million highly skilled workers – needed to raise productivity and drive growth – by 2020.2 McKinsey Global Institute Attracting, developing and 900,000 Europe.5 Within our own industry, the gender gap within Science, Technology, motivating a talented and diverse Engineering and Maths (STEM) careers is of The EU expects a job gap of 900,000 in workforce is a fundamental part particular concern. Science, Technology, Engineering and Maths of our business agenda. Diversity We want to be part of the solution and have (STEM) areas by 2020.3 The European Commission and Inclusion is central to CCE’s developed recruitment, apprenticeship and graduate programs that seek to address operating framework (our own the gender imbalance and attract more business roadmap) and we diverse talent into all levels of our business. have a particular focus on At a grassroots level, we are also opening the doors of our manufacturing operations OUR COMMITMENT gender diversity and age. to young people to demystify manufacturing, We believe there is a clear competitive encourage the uptake of STEM subjects at We will attract, develop advantage to be gained from having a truly diverse workforce. Organizations which reflect school and broaden the career aspirations of girls and boys alike. and motivate a highly the realities of the world around them are far better placed to not only understand the needs In Western Europe, unemployment, particularly among young people, has been a significant talented and diverse of their customers and consumers, but also to issue for the past few years, leading in some recruit and retain employees. More importantly, workforce within a safe a diverse workforce means having diversity of regions to social unrest. At the same time, there is a global shortage of employees who will have ideas, thinking and experience across our and healthy workplace, to business, which leads to enhanced ways of the skills required by companies in the years ahead, especially as technology continues to foster an inclusive culture. working and ultimately to better internal decision-making. develop and expand. We believe we can play a positive role in the At Coca-Cola Enterprises, the need to develop communities in which we operate. We have a diverse workforce is clear. We need to invested in employability programs that inspire develop a sales force that is reflective of our and help young people to build a brighter future consumers and better able to meet their needs by supporting them in acquiring the skills, and anticipate trends in the marketplace. knowledge and understanding of the workplace We also recognize that there continues to be that will give them a competitive edge. a gender gap in the entire workforce across CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014/2015 ISSUE SHEET 23/30 Employment and Diversity — continued Maria Kokkinou Michael Privot Chief Diversity Officer Director, and Talent Acquisition European Network Against Racism (ENAR) Director, Coca-Cola Enterprises A VIEW FROM COCA-COLA ENTERPRISES A VIEW FROM THE EUROPEAN NETWORK AGAINST RACISM As Chief Diversity Officer and Talent Acquisition Leading by example is not only a question of image: diversity has to be embodied Director at CCE, I believe that building a diverse in the organizational culture and be well communicated. People have to know that workforce is critical for the future of our business. Coca-Cola Enterprises embraces and lives its all-inclusive vision of diversity. The Our products are consumed by people of all company should promote diversity and be seen to be doing so. different genders, ages, nationalities, ethnicities, In Europe, youth unemployment can be as high as 40 percent, and is often an obstacle religions, sexual orientations and educational for the sustainability of diverse and inclusive societies. By offering a great working backgrounds. Our key customers are increasingly experience to young people, successful companies can strengthen bonds with a large diverse as well. In order to meet their needs, we and long-lasting consumer base, and offer young people an income and a future. need to be able to acknowledge those differences, Young Europeans are increasingly diverse in terms of race, religion, belief, cultural and have common ground. It is clear to me that we background, gender identity and sexual orientation. When it comes to accessing not only have a responsibility to be inclusive – it is employment, in many instances those diversities result in compounded discrimination, actually a business imperative. not cumulative advantage. Gender diversity is a particular focus for us at the Coca-Cola Enterprises has invested considerably in training its employees to depart from moment. We know that 70 percent of the decisions unconscious biases and promote gender balance. Coca-Cola Enterprises fares well in to buy our products are actually made by women. terms of diversity, but has the potential to improve even further by embracing a holistic And at the same time, 60 percent of university and talent-aware approach to racial, cultural and religious diversity. This approach graduates are now female – and they bring a new should include further management training, the improvement of recruitment pipelines, set of skills and leadership styles. community reach-out and career management processes and the use of purchasing This will help us to improve the dynamics of our power to encourage suppliers to enhance their own diversity management. team and develop our ability to innovate. That is By demonstrating that hiring young people with diverse backgrounds creates a why we have recently set an aspiration to achieve positive benefit for both employees and employers, companies are able to influence a minimum of 40 percent women at both governments, and foster their drive to develop a supportive policy environment. CCE management and leadership grades, and have has the potential to be a game-changer in this area too. Let’s do it together! focused on programs which improve our ability to attract, develop and retain women, particularly within our supply chain organisation. Beyond talent acquisition, we invest in factory-based education centers that demystify manufacturing for the younger generation while our Real Business Challenge and Passport to Employment programs enhance the general employability of young people across our communities. Participating students may find jobs at Coca-Cola Enterprises. However, that’s not the end objective. We want to provide young people with insight into our industry and support them in developing skills which will help them to find jobs anywhere. Unless people are offered the right experiences and opportunities to develop, we will not be able to grow as a society. CCE employees at our exhibit at the Food and Drink Federation (FDF) Taste Success Big Bang Fair, which promotes STEM education in Great Britain. 1 Economist Intelligence Unit / Towers Watson 2 McKinsey Global Institute 3 The European Commission 4 Forbes Insights 5 The Institute for Public Policy Research (IPPR) CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014/2015 FACTSHEET 24/30 Employment and Diversity CCE Board members speaking at our elles@coke event in Paris. OUR COMMITMENT HIGHLIGHTS 2014 We will attract, develop and motivate a highly talented and diverse 33% of our Board of Directors are female. workforce within a safe and healthy workplace. By 2025, we aspire to have a minimum of 40 percent of women in both management and leadership grades across our business. 30% of employees in executive grades are female. INTRODUCTION People make a company successful and sustainable. We therefore believe that a fundamental part of our sustainability agenda is to recruit the best people, develop diverse and inclusive teams and 25% of employees in leadership grades are female. provide our employees with rewarding careers, in an environment that supports their development. 36% In addition, we have established local D&I OUR STRATEGY Councils in the Netherlands, France, Belgium, Within our workplace strategy, our employment Luxembourg, Great Britain and across our supply of employees in management grades and diversity program focuses on: chain business unit. These local councils work are female. • Driving an inclusive culture within our with business leaders to further extend D&I workforce, reflective of the communities initiatives in the business. Each business unit 77% in which we operate. has D&I sponsors who are also members of • Working towards world-class safety status the D&I Council. in our manufacturing and sales operations. Setting targets employee satisfaction rating in our latest • Developing a wellbeing program to We continue to improve our processes, employee survey. encourage our employees to live active, organization and culture to support D&I. In healthy lives. particular, we have an aspiration to achieve 76% of our employees are covered by collective This factsheet addresses the first priority – driving an inclusive culture within our workforce. 40 percent of women in both management and leadership grades by 2025. To achieve this goal, all of our business areas have developed See Factsheet 25 for more information on tailored action plans relating to talent bargaining agreements. employee safety, health and wellbeing. acquisition, female retention and career progression and development. Our systematic FOSTERING A DIVERSE AND INCLUSIVE CULTURE approach is showing results. Women currently SUSTAINABILITY PLAN We seek to attract, develop and motivate a represent 30 percent of our executive grades, COMMITMENTS workforce that reflects the diversity of the 25 percent of our leadership grades and communities in which we operate. We regard 36 percent of our management grades – 40% every employee as a valued member of CCE and an increase of 43 percent, 19 percent and are committed to supporting each individual to 13 percent respectively since 2012. In addition, help them achieve their potential. At CCE as part women represent 33 percent of our Board of We aspire to have a minimum of 40 percent of our diversity and inclusion (D&I) strategy we Directors and 25 percent of our Executive of women in both management and leadership focus on: Leadership Team. grades by 2025. Accountability Talent recruitment Responsibility for diversity rests at all levels We are focused on ensuring that we recruit the Attract of the business. Our D&I Council is chaired by two members of our Executive Leadership Team best talent and we have robust plans as part of our talent acquisition strategy. We have reworded develop and motivate a highly talented (ELT). We created a detailed D&I scorecard to our job advertisements in order to ensure that and diverse workforce. allow us to measure and benchmark progress they are attractive to both male and female across the business. Every quarter, our candidates and we have built female talent Leadership Team (LT), led by our CEO John Brock, pipelines in certain areas of the business where reviews how each business unit and function is we find it difficult to attract women. Our new progressing against its D&I action plan. All of the recruitment marketing campaign, ‘My time members of our LT have individual D&I is now,’ is also designed to encourage women to performance objectives. think differently about their careers. We challenge ourselves to provide gender-balanced short lists CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014/2015 FACTSHEET 24/30 Employment and Diversity — continued Workplace profile1 2012 2013 20144 An Vermeulen Total employees 13,000 11,7502,3 11,6503 Vice President, Field Sales, Full-time employees (%) 94 96 95.6 Belgium and Luxembourg Male 98 Female 89 Voluntary turnover rate (%) 6.4 5.4 5.7 Employees with Individual Development Plans (%) 64 76 86.7 Average training days per employee 3 2.7 2.2 Age profile of workforce (%) <20 1 0 0.2 EMPLOYEE SPOTLIGHT 20–29 17 16 15.9 The diversity and inclusion journey 30–39 32 32 30.5 40–49 33 33 32.6 “In 2010, I was the first woman to join the 50–59 15 17 18.2 Benelux senior leadership team, and four years 60+ 2 2 2.6 later the team is perfectly gender-balanced Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements5 – – 76% between 50 percent males and 50 percent females. Between 2010 and 2014, I took part in both the Corporate and local D&I Councils and Diversity profile6, 7 attended the first D&I Lab in 2014. The Lab 2012 2013 2014 Females on Board of Directors (%) 33 33 33 involved other large organizations aiming to explore and debate how to promote, develop Females in executive roles (%) 21 25 30 and retain women. An Inclusive Leadership Females in leadership roles (%) 21 24 25 program, which we piloted in 2014, was another Females in management roles (%) 32 34 36 success and was rolled out to all senior leaders Females in non-management roles (%) 23 23 24 in CCE. One of the challenges was how to Females in workforce (%) 24 24 25 identify ‘unconscious bias’ signals, and we took Board of Directors members over 40 (%) 100 100 100 part in exercises to learn to think in a more Ethnically diverse members of the Board of Directors (%) 17 17 17 neutral and balanced way. Senior management Equal remuneration (median compensation of men vs. women) (%)8 Executive – – 102 took part in the training in order to act as future Management – – 110 role models. One of the next steps I personally Non-Management – – 105 feel very strongly about is equipping our first line managers with this way of thinking. We are of candidates, as well as having gendermaking good progress, and recognize that more CASE STUDY balanced interview panels. In addition, we opportunities lie ahead. With four generations focus on building our talent pipeline through working for CCE in Europe, we will also explore D&I lab on female retention how to best celebrate age and experience. our University Talent Program (UTP), which has been running since 2009. In 2014, we recruited a further 26 graduates, and currently 50 percent of years; as well as D&I activities in our existing of all UTP graduates are female. management training curriculum. We have set up community initiatives that Our ‘Diversity in Action’ program, launched in support females in manufacturing – for example 2012 aims to embed diversity within the business providing mentors to support the Brunel through a series of check-ups and selfUniversity mentorship scheme for female assessment workshops on a variety of diversity engineering students in Great Britain and topics. Over the past two years, the program has In 2014, we held our first Diversity & Inclusion financing a study in Sweden to better understand involved more than 700 people in over 30 sites. Lab, focused on addressing the challenge of what drives female employees. We also work In 2014, we rolled out an Inclusive Leadership improving female retention. The Lab consisted with partners to support programs aimed at program to provide training in D&I management of an internal CCE panel, external speakers improving youth employment and employability and gender-balance for our top 500 leaders. from other FMCG companies, and academics. and promoting interest in Science, Technology, We plan to expand the program to our remaining During the Lab, 35 leaders from our Engineering and Mathematics (STEM) careers. leaders in 2015. commercial and operations teams spent the For more information see Factsheet 26. day looking at our internal best practices, while We also offer a variety of learning and also hearing about best practices from other At CCE, we do not make employment-related development programs to help employees build organizations, including thought leadership on decisions, including pay decisions, on the basis and develop their own skills. Every employee is the topic of female retention from academia. of legally or Company-protected characteristics, encouraged to create an Individual Development The outcome from the Lab was the including gender. In order to ensure that line Plan (IDP), through which training needs are development of a female retention plan, which managers make appropriate pay decisions, identified. In 2014, 86.7 percent of employees the participants drafted during the breakout we provide training and support during the had an IDP in place. Our online CCE Academy sessions. Their recommendations, which annual merit process, as well as when hiring or offers training in many areas from leadership to included the development of an awareness promoting an employee. More specifically, we commercial, supply chain and global functions. training program on flexible working, training monitor pay equity within our territories, through In 2014, more than 11,100 individuals completed on how to manage sexist behaviors and annual and ad hoc reviews, not only where at least one training course. 56,000 courses were informal mentoring have been incorporated these are required by law. During these reviews, attended during the year. into our 2015 D&I strategic action plan. The we take into account various additional factors, Employee networks program won two awards – the Diversity including overall tenure at CCE and performance In 2010, we launched our first employee Trophy, a prestigious French diversity award, over time, which can impact the pay of both network for women and since then we have and the LSA Diversity Trophy for Gender Parity. males and females. broadened the scope of employee networks We will run the Lab again in May 2015 – Awareness and education to focus on a wide range of subjects. By 2014, focusing on improving engagement between We aim to embed D&I within our business. As we had 17 employee networks, across all our multiple generations. a result, our D&I training strategy aims to offer geographies, holding 50 events involving more stand-alone programs that will run for a period than 2,000 employees. 1 CCE does not have supervised workers. 5 2014 is the first year for which we are providing collective bargaining information. 2 Decrease due to a business transformation program, which included consultation 6 CCE does not capture minority group information on all employees across all of our territories, with works councils within the countries in which we operate. in accordance with local law. 3 As quoted in our 2014 10-K and Annual Report. 7 We have restated our diversity data from 2012–2014 to align with our new diversity commitment. 4 Rounded to nearest 50 employees. Percentages are based on a figure of 11,519 which does 8 Equal remuneration ratio based upon median wage of 52% of our employees. not include occasional workers in Norway and Sweden, nor Belgian pre-pensioners. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014/2015 FACTSHEET 25/30 A Safe, Healthy Workplace OUR COMMITMENT HIGHLIGHTS 2014 We will provide a safe and healthy work environment with the aim of 0.95 Number of lost-time accidents per 100 achieving zero accidents and attaining world-class health and safety status. We will also encourage participation in our employee wellbeing programs, so that by 2020 at least 50 percent of our employees take part. full-time employees.1 INTRODUCTION 64% reduction in lost-time accident rate since 2007.1 People are the key to a successful, sustainable company. To give their best and achieve their full potential, they need a safe, healthy and positive working environment. 4.6% Our absentee rate in 2014. OUR STRATEGY In our drive for continued improvement at all our sites, we have focused this year on the following Our workplace program focuses on three safety initiatives: priorities: • Revising our safety standards to make them • Fostering a diverse and inclusive culture. SUSTAINABILITY PLAN easier to understand and implement – the • Working towards world-class safety status objectives being to raise awareness and levels COMMITMENTS throughout our manufacturing operations. of compliance, empower our people to • Enabling and encouraging our employees challenge unsafe practices and make 50% Encourage participation in our employee to lead active, healthy lives. This factsheet covers the second and third individuals more aware of their role in ensuring a safe workplace. • Providing intensive, week-long management priorities. For information on the first, see wellbeing programs so that at least 50 percent Factsheet 24. training for safety teams across all our of our employees take part. territories. These cover safety disciplines such WORKING TOWARDS WORLD-CLASS SAFETY as risk management, governance, root cause analysis, data and information management Zero We aim to achieve world-class safety standards and a zero-accident workplace with a consistent and audit, along with softer skills such as change management, communication and Provide a safe and healthy work environment approach and level of performance across culture. The process continues with refresher with a vision of achieving zero accidents and our territories. In the interests of strong safety sessions and is repeated for everyone joining attaining world-class health and safety status. governance, we operate Business Unit Safety our teams. Councils at a national level and health and safety committees at each of our manufacturing • Continuing to develop our Europe-wide operations and sales and distribution sites. health and safety training curriculum in Our standards apply equally to employees order to consolidate and standardize our and contractors. approach and provide relevant training at three levels of competence: awareness, In 2014, 16 of our 17 manufacturing operations manager and practitioner. and all regional distribution centers were certified to Occupational Health and Safety • Developing a process for visiting each site management system OHSAS 18001. and function and assessing its progress towards world-class safety on a five-point In 2014, our lost-time accident (LTA) rate was scale from ‘basic’ to ‘center of excellence’. 0.95 accidents per 100 full-time equivalent Here CCE is taking the lead within the employees1 compared to 0.89 in 2013. LTAs are Coca-Cola system in partnership with the slightly lower at our manufacturing operations Global Safety Council and will be piloting than among commercial and sales people in the process in the coming year. the field because safety practices can be better controlled within our own operations. During • We will be improving our use of safety data 2014 there were five contractor lost-time by recording accidents that result in treatable accidents across our territories. During the year injuries along with potential or ‘near miss’ there were no fatalities. Our absence rate in 2014 incidents and will pilot the process in the was 4.6 percent. coming year. Investigating these types of incidents can highlight issues that need attention, help to identify safety trends and enable us to avoid more serious incidents – CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014/2015 FACTSHEET 25/30 A Safe, Healthy Workplace — continued all part of a greater emphasis on accident which help employees manage their health prevention. and wellbeing on a proactive basis. These are available to all employees and include: Fiona Doherty • Improving the safety performance of our and Sharon Forde contractors by raising awareness of their Our Employee Assistance program, a Wellbeing Champions, responsibilities, the behaviors they need confidential information service to support Great Britain to observe and our own safety standards. employees with work or personal problems such Through a system of site visits and practical as bereavement, stress or financial concerns. advice and support, we continue to raise the • Our Health Risk Assessments program which bar among contractors, suppliers and partners offers employees an analysis of their current to help them reach the standards we expect state of health and recommends actions they at our own sites. EMPLOYEE SPOTLIGHT may wish to take. We estimate that the reduction in the total Employee health checks • Occupational health assessments – including number of LTAs in 2014 (504 less than 2013) risk assessments for desk workers to ensure In September 2014, we worked with our resulted in a saving of approximately $180,000. that workstations are comfortable and Occupational Health supplier, Duradiamond, Our strong safety record was recognized again ergonomically sound (see case study). to offer a number of mini health checks across in 2014, with all sites in Great Britain gaining The Great Britain, as part of CRS in Action Week. Royal Society for the Prevention of Accidents • Offering flu vaccinations to all employees. Over a 19-day period, visits were held in 14 Gold Award. • Providing access to health and fitness centers. sites across the country to assess employees’ The head offices in the countries in which we pulse, blood pressure, height, weight, BMI, EMPLOYEE WELLBEING operate include a gym for the use of blood sugar, and cholesterol. In addition, we We aim to encourage participation in our employees. Those not working at head offices organized ‘free fruit’ days to promote healthy employee wellbeing programs so that at least can benefit from local gym discounts. eating and also offered flu vaccinations. 50 percent of our employees take part by 2020. • Campaigns to help employees to stop This means ensuring that employees are healthy smoking. and safe and have a positive mindset so that they can engage in their work and concentrate • A network of wellbeing champions who CASE STUDY coordinate the roll-out of our wellbeing on their performance. We do this through our Occupational health in Great Britain employee benefits packages as well as the programs and involve our people in local programs we offer to help employees manage initiatives. At CCE, we work to ensure that our employees’ their own health and wellbeing. Our employee • Publishing health and wellbeing information health is not adversely affected by their job. In benefits are available to all full-time employees on our HR portal, ’HeRe! Online’. Great Britain, all new employees complete a and vary according to country and employee We also encourage our employees to lead pre-placement questionnaire to assess their level, but can include vacation time and a variety active lifestyles through our participation health before they start work. All employees of leave packages for when an employee in programs such as the Global Corporate are able to have a risk assessment for different may be sick, having a child, or experiencing Challenge (GCC). The GCC encourages areas where they work – such as their bereavement or long-term illness in their family, employees to walk, cycle or swim 10,000 workstation or vehicle. We also offer risk as well as other benefits such as medical or steps each day for 100 days. In 2014, our assessments for employees experiencing dental insurance and eye care vouchers. second year of participation, we fielded stress, as well as assessments for new or As well as these types of employee benefits, 312 teams of seven people with representation expectant mothers. Employees can be referred we have also developed programs and tools from all our territories. for an Occupational Health Assessment (OHA) by their manager, and the assessments are carried out by Occupational Health advisors Lost-time accident rate 2007–20141 who have a nursing background. Occupational Number of lost-time accidents per 100 full-time equivalent employees. Health Assessment days are held during the year on-site where ongoing cases are 2.97 Supply Chain Commercial and sales CCE TOTAL 2 discussed and new assessments made. The 2.65 2.45 OHA days are also used to raise awareness on 2.16 1.96 a specific topic such as respiratory problems, 1.87 1.65 1.69 1.58 1.50 asthma, and mental health. 1.41 1.40 1.31 1.20 1.17 1.12 1.07 1.06 1.09 0.87 0.91 0.89 0.95 0.83 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 20133 2014 1 Data recalculation and changes to previous years due to data improvements. 2 Nordics are included from the year 2010 onwards. 3 Cold Drinks Centers transferred from commercial to operations. Lost-time accident rate by country 20144 Number of lost-time accidents per 100 full-time equivalent employees. Supply Chain Commercial and sales CCE TOTAL 2.33 2.32 2.32 0.79 1.37 1.09 0.95 0.93 0.96 0.95 0.93 0.89 0.91 0.83 0.83 0.64 0.73 0.3 0.24 0.27 All CCE Great Britain France Belux Netherlands Norway Sweden5 4 Data not collected for the USA or Bulgaria, as work is solely office-based. 5 Data not collected separately on commercial employees in Sweden. 1 CCE employees only. Whilst we capture contractor LTA data, we do not include it in our LTAs and we do not currently split by gender. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014/2015 FACTSHEET 26/30 Community Special Olympics participants. Participants in our Real Business Challenge. OUR COMMITMENT HIGHLIGHTS 2014 We will make a positive difference in our communities, work with 130,000 young people each year reached by our local local partners and support the active involvement of our employees. INTRODUCTION partnerships and education centers. Coca-Cola is a local product, made by local people. We are proud to support the communities in which we operate and have built strong 0.7% of pre-tax profits invested. relationships both locally and nationally. Our aim is to make a positive difference, focusing mainly on programs which will improve the development of workplace skills in young people, protect the environment 6,071 hours appoximately volunteered by by CCE employees. and encourage active, healthy living. We aim to support our employees in being actively involved in community work. Education centers OUR STRATEGY 100% CCE’s eight education centers offer students, At CCE, our community program focuses on aged 12-25, an exciting opportunity to learn three pillars: about modern manufacturing and the working of our locations have community programs • Supporting young people in developing environment. The centers, run by education in place. their workplace skills. specialists employed by CCE, aim to demystify • Supporting community projects to improve manufacturing for young people through a free 32,000+ and protect the environment. visit that includes a factory tour alongside curriculum-linked content. In 2014, we operated • Encouraging active lifestyles. eight education centers across Great Britain, visitors to our education centers every year. This factsheet focuses on community France and Belgium, and are planning to have initiatives linked to the first and second an education center in each of our territories pillars. See Factsheet 8 for more details by 2020. SUSTAINABILITY PLAN on our active lifestyle programs. COMMITMENTS COMMUNITY INVESTMENT VOLUNTEER HOURS PER COUNTRY In 2014, we invested $5.9 million,1 nearly 0.7 percent 1% Invest 1 percent of our annual pre-tax profit of pre-tax profit, in community initiatives across our territories. This breaks down as follows: 546hrs 1 Cash contributions to support charitable and community partners 4 1 Norway 3 48% and make a positive difference in the 1,566hrs 2 In-kind contributions communities in which we operate. 6% 3 Management costs 289hrs Sweden 21% Great Britain Support 4 Employee 1,687hrs volunteering time2 25% the active involvement of our employees by 2 encouraging them to volunteer. Belux 325hrs 250,000 SUPPORTING YOUNG PEOPLE AND DEVELOPING THEIR WORKPLACE SKILLS Netherlands 167hrs United States We want to help young people to gain an Support the skills development and learning understanding of the workplace and the skills needs of 250,000 young people each year they will need. Since 2011, we have invested over by 2020. $11 million in building a program to support the education of young people across our territories. In 2014, we reached nearly 130,000 young people through our education centers and our community partnerships, providing a variety of 1,491hrs work-related learning programs. France CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014/2015 FACTSHEET 26/30 Community — continued CASE STUDY Rachel Johnston Coca-Cola Visitors Center Education Center Manager, Milton Keynes, Great Britain In April 2014, following an extensive refurbishment, we re-opened our Coca-Cola Visitors Center at our Antwerp manufacturing operations. The Center, which is expected to welcome nearly 25,000 visitors a year, offers guided tours aimed at students aged 12-25. The recent refurbishment has allowed the site to upgrade its digital capabilities, enabling EMPLOYEE SPOTLIGHT visitors to have a more interactive experience Education centers and giving students a view of potential career “I am a qualified teacher and am responsible options at CCE. for hosting educational visits to our new education center in Milton Keynes. We aim Our newest facility was opened in Milton Keynes The Real Business Challenge, Great Britain to host six visits a week – 4,000 students in October 2014, marking our fifth education Aimed at 12 to 15 year-olds, the Real Business a year. The center is free and we offer center in Great Britain, Through these, we have Challenge is a national enterprise competition a curriculum-linked program that gives reached 11,420 students in 2014. Since 2011, that is open to all secondary schools in subject-related insight into manufacturing CCE has invested a total of $6.2 million in our Great Britain. Students are challenged to tackle processes. We also offer a guided tour of Great Britain education programs, reaching a business task set by CCE and to pitch their the factory and hope to inspire these students more than 300,000 young people. We also enterprise skills against other schools. In 2014, to consider careers in manufacturing.” have education centers at our sites at Sidcup, the competition reached 77,100 students. The Edmonton, Wakefield and East Kilbride. program runs for a full year, with preliminary SUPPORTING COMMUNITY PROJECTS TO In April 2014, following an extensive in-school challenges followed by regional and IMPROVE AND PROTECT THE ENVIRONMENT refurbishment, we re-opened the Coca-Cola national finals. Of those students who took part in 2014, 94 percent agreed that the Real Business Our community investment also supports Visitors Center, alongside our production and Challenge helped them to develop skills that programs which protect and enhance the distribution site in Antwerp. The Center is increased employability. environment such as our water replenishment expected to welcome 25,000 visitors per year partnerships with the WWF in the UK and France, (see case study). JINC, Netherlands and with Natuurpunt in Belgium. More Education Partnership Programs In 2014, we continued our partnership with information about these projects can be found Our education partnership programs are JINC, an organization bringing together on Factsheet 19. Our other environmental critical to our ability to support young companies and under-privileged young people programs include: people in developing their workplace skills to help students prepare for the world of work. across all our territories. In 2014, we reached Focusing on developing the skills needed to Clean the Beaches, Sweden nearly 130,000 young people through the gain employment, volunteers and funding We support Stada Sverige (Clean Sweden) to following programs: are provided for classes, interview coaching promote environmental awareness among and one-to-one support. young people. Since 2010, our support of the Dreamers and Believers, Belgium program has enabled more than 10,000 In 2014, to support the opening of The Coca-Cola Red Cross, Norway participants across Sweden to clear litter from Visitors Center, we launched our new ‘Dreamers In Norway, since 2003, we have supported the over 1,500 Swedish beaches, resulting in more and Believers’ initiative. Through the program, Red Cross, providing financial help and job than 400 tonnes of waste being collected. we partnered five young people aged 19-21 training to four centers in Oslo. (dreamers) with senior level executives (believers) CRS Roadshow, Sweden from local businesses, including CCE Chief In 2014, together with the Swedish recycling Executive Officer, John Brock. Each dreamer Wouter Gudde organization, Returpack, we took part in developed a business plan, supported by Director of Excelsior a roadshow visiting schools and raising a series of workshops and a final presentation 4All Foundation awareness of recycling with more than to the believers. and Commercial Director 10,000 students. of Excelsior Soccer Club EMPLOYEE VOLUNTEERING Passport to Employment, France In the 10 years that CCE has worked on the We encourage volunteering as part of our Passport to Employment scheme, it has community initiatives, helping employees to helped more than 20,000 young people from enhance their own skills and experience. In under-privileged backgrounds. Our employees 2014, our employees volunteered approximately provide support through interview training and EXTERNAL SPOTLIGHT 6,070 hours on CCE community projects across mentoring to help participants find their first job. Excelsior4All Foundation, Netherlands all locations. These have included our headline active lifestyle and employment initiatives Espoir Banlieues (Hope for the Suburbs), France For three years we have worked in partnership such as Special Olympics, The Real Business In support of this government initiative, CCE with CCE, helping young people to develop Challenge, JINC and our education centers. has pledged to recruit unemployed people from their social and sporting skills. In particular, 750 disadvantaged areas. Over the past five CCE has supported our learning center, where CCE’s recycling team also organized volunteers years, 10 percent of our new recruits have been students with learning difficulties receive to help support recycling activations at summer employed through the program. additional training combined with sports festivals, including the Special Olympics workshops. We look forward to a series of European Summer Games, often in conjunction L dans la Ville, France soccer workshops for secondary schools in with partners such as Zero Waste Scotland. In In 2014, a new partnership was created with 2015. These will enable us to reach more young 2014, more than 250 CCE employees volunteered ‘L dans la Ville’, an NGO operating since 1998, people in order to introduce them to sports and their time to help with recycling events at these to address access to sport and jobs in underan active lifestyle. festivals and events. For more information see privileged areas. In 2014, more than 1,000 Factsheet 16. young girls in Lyon and Paris were involved, with 80 percent of the participants gaining 1 CCE’s Community Investment contributions reported using the employment after taking part in the program. standardized approach provided by the LBG methodology. 2 Time includes both employee volunteering and employee management time. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014/2015 FACTSHEET 27/30 Our Stakeholders and Materiality CCE’s CFO, Nik Jhangiani (second from left), with speakers at our Future for Sustainability Summit. INTRODUCTION HIGHLIGHTS 2014 We value the opinions of our stakeholders and the ongoing dialogue 250 that we have with them. We developed our Sustainability Plan – both our original plan in 2011, and our new plan with revised targets – based Delegates attended our ‘Future for on the input of a wide range of stakeholders. We have taken their views Sustainability Summit’. into account by setting further stretch, value-chain-based goals, and structuring our reporting this year around the key issues material to our 73 key stakeholders took part in a series business. We will only be able to meet our targets by collaborating with our customers and suppliers as well as with thought leaders, NGOs and of roundtables in our territories to define members of our local communities. our goals for our Sustainability Plan. roundtables with 73 key stakeholders in OUR STRATEGY Profit and Purpose We engage with stakeholders throughout the year on a local and national level and build London, Brussels, Rotterdam and Paris and held individual interviews with other critical stakeholders, including those in Norway was the title of our white paper, ‘Combining relationships to allow for an open and honest and Sweden. We sought feedback on our Profit and Purpose: A new dialogue on the role dialogue, where we are able to productively Sustainability Plan objectives, and their of businesses in society,’ in conjunction with discuss how to make progress against the expectations of us as sustainability leaders. Cranfield University and the Financial Times. issues that matter to us. Through these discussions, we identified In addition, we engage with stakeholders on 200+ 35 priority issues which were then mapped more specific topics as required, including our against their ability to impact our business Sustainability Plan objectives and reporting. and our stakeholder expectations. This ideas generated through our partnership with This factsheet describes both our ongoing mapping was verified by our CRS Advisory OpenIDEO to crowdsource ideas to improve stakeholder engagement approach, and Council, Executive Leadership Team and CRS home recycling rates. our materiality assessment which required Board Committee. specific stakeholder review. We grouped these issues together around our 26th seven commitment areas, and the detailed MATERIALITY ASSESSMENT stakeholder expectations were used to inform Our material issues have been confirmed the revision of our Sustainability Plan targets. ranking in the Corporate Knights 2014 list of through a review of our Sustainability Plan, The full mapping of our material issues is below: Global 100 Most Sustainable Companies – the held in 2014. To do this, we held a series of only beverage company listed. TOP PRIORITY ISSUES • Water pollution • Energy efficiency and carbon • Innovation in refrigeration • Nutritional labeling reduction • Innovation in packaging • Product quality • Use of recycled materials • Calorie reduction • Nutrition and balanced diets • Resource scarcity • Responsible marketing • Occupational health and safety • Whole value chain thinking (carbon, water) • Water consumption Stakeholder expectation • Water scarcity • Renewable energy and • Consumer recycling • Impact of community alternative fuels • Packaging reduction contributions • Sustainable sourcing (sugar and • Active lifestyles • Employee physical and mental other raw materials) • No-/low-calorie alternatives health • Supply chain traceability • Recyclability of packaging • Portion size • Manufacturing waste • Local socio-economic impact, • Water source protection youth • Employee volunteering • unemployment and job creation • Diversity and equal opportunities Potential to impact our business CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014/2015 FACTSHEET 27/30 Our Stakeholders and Materiality — continued 2014 KEY STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT AND DIALOGUE We sought feedback from our stakeholders on our Sustainability Plan objectives through a series of stakeholder roundtables and interviews. Their summary feedback is below, and the result can be seen in our revised Sustainability Plan. Our stakeholders Issue recommendations Our response Wellbeing Do more to reduce As part of our Sustainability Plan commitments, we have created an updated calorie commitment to calories across reduce the calories in our portfolio by 10 percent by 2020.1, 2 We have also maintained our commitment the portfolio to enable 3 million people to be physically active by investing in grassroots programs which support active lifestyles. Other calorie goals have also been set at a local level, including in Great Britain, France and The Netherlands. Resource Lead the industry by We have updated our Sustainability Plan commitments to ensure that 40 percent of the PET we use is Scarcity using recycled and recycled PET and/or PET from renewable materials. We will continue to work with our suppliers and renewable materials The Coca-Cola Company to develop innovative solutions to decrease the impact of our packaging on and innovating on the environment. We also work at a local level to improve national policy in this area – providing evidence alternative at the UK House of Commons Environmental Audit Committee on the circular economy, for example. packaging and delivery options Climate Develop focus on We have set a commitment in our Sustainability Plan to source 40 percent of our energy from renewable Change renewable energy, or low-carbon sources by 2020. Throughout the year, we have engaged with stakeholders and others in and innovation in the industry to advocate for changes to European policy on climate change – for example, as a member refrigeration, and of the Prince of Wales’ Corporate Leaders Group. increase advocacy on climate policy Water Measure and We have continued to expand our reporting on the impacts of our business against our entire value manage impacts chain; and will continue to do so. We have adapted our Sustainability Plan commitments and expanded across the full value our replenishment programs into three countries where we operate. The largest water impact in our chain – focusing on value chain is in our ingredients – and so we have set a commitment in our updated Sustainability Plan to carbon, water and source all of our key agricultural ingredients sustainably by 2020. resource scarcity Sustainable Expand focus on We have made a commitment in our updated Sustainability Plan to source all of our key agricultural Sourcing sustainable sourcing ingredients sustainably by 2020. We have done this in partnership with The Coca-Cola Company, beyond sugar and will continue to roll-out our joint system Sustainable Agriculture Guiding Principles (SAGPs) with suppliers and with stakeholders such as the Rainforest Alliance and the Sustainable Agriculture Initiative (SAI). Employment Commit to We have an aspiration to have a minimum of 40 percent of women in both management and leadership and Diversity empowering women grades by 2025. We will continue to build our diversity and youth employment programs in support in the workforce of this and our other workplace objectives. MATERIAL ISSUES – G4 ASPECTS MAPPING Based on the material issues identified by our stakeholders, we’ve mapped these against the GRI G4 Aspects, and identified the external boundaries associated with each. The reporting information in each of our factsheets has been developed carefully to cover the G4 Aspects on an issue-by-issue basis. Within these aspects, the CCE boundary always covers all territories where CCE has operations. Priority Climate Resource Water Sustainable Employment Issues Wellbeing Change Scarcity Stewardship Sourcing and Diversity SUSTAINABLE COMMITMENT ENERGY AND PACKAGING SUSTAINABLE WORKPLACE AREA WELLBEING CLIMATE CHANGE AND RECYCLING WATER SOURCING AND COMMUNITY Factsheets 6-8 9-13 14-16 17-19 20-22 23-26 G4 Aspects Customer health Overall Overall Overall Materials Indirect economic impacts and safety Emissions Materials Water Water Economic performance Marketing communications Energy Environment: Effluents Supplier environmental Local communities Compliance Transport Product and and waste assessment Diversity and equal Product and service Effluents and waste services Compliance Supplier assessment for opportunity labeling labor practices Equal remuneration Supplier human rights for men and women assessment Occupational health Supplier assessment for and safety impacts on society Employment Training and education Anti-Corruption Public Policy External Customers TCCC TCCC Communities TCCC Communities Boundary Consumers Suppliers Suppliers Suppliers TCCC Customers Customers Consumers Consumers 1 In conjunction with the Coca-Cola Company. 2 Against a 2010 baseline. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014/2015 FACTSHEET 27/30 Our Stakeholders and Materiality — continued ONGOING ENGAGEMENT ACTIVITIES We work in closely with many stakeholders in order to develop a collaborative response to the issues that we face as a business and as a society. We do this both through memberships of industry associations such as UNESDA (the European soft drinks industry association), as well as through multi-stakeholder initiatives driving public policy decisions, and local engagement with stakeholders in our communities. More information about local engagement activities can be found in our country CSR reports. Stakeholder group: Stakeholder group: Investors, shareowners and analysts Academics and networks Key stakeholders: Key stakeholders: CDP, Newsweek Green Rankings, Cranfield University, University of Exeter Global 100 Most Sustainable – One Planet Sustainability Challenge, Companies OpenIDEO, UNESDA, Prince of Wales’ Issues: Various, but particularly Corporate Leaders Group on Climate focused on risk management and Change, European School of areas of risk for the business. Management and Technology Sustainability Roundtable (ESMT), Engagement focus: Improved Financial Times – Summit disclosure around value-chain impacts and water. CCE engagement: Speaker at our Future for Sustainability Summit. We engage with investors, share Engagement method: Ongoing owners and analysts through our membership of stakeholder network Investor Relations team, the release Engagement: Active response and sharing of ideas. Working with the of our Annual Report and 10-K, academic and sustainability community helps us remain well-informed on and investor conferences. CRS also forms a regular part of each sustainability thought leadership. We have collaborated with the University presentation we make to financial analysts. We engage regularly with of Exeter, directly supporting its One Planet Sustainability Challenge for other indices, including the DJSI, Newsweek Green Rankings (where MBA students and have worked with the University of Cranfield to publish we were placed 22nd in the United States, in 2014), and others. We a paper regarding the role of business in society. We also participate in disclose our carbon figures publicly to the CDP, and also respond to the European School of Management and Technology’s Sustainability the CDP Water disclosure. We are included in the CDP S&P 500 and Roundtable and SustainAbility’s Engaging Stakeholders network, and are continue to be members of the FTSE4Good Index. In 2014, we were a member of the EU Corporate Leaders Group on Climate Change. Our #26 on the Corporate Knights 2014 list of the Global 100 Most European President is also the President of our trade association, UNESDA. Sustainable Companies. Stakeholder group: Stakeholder group: Media and social media Suppliers Key stakeholders: Key stakeholders: EcoVadis, SAI, Rainforest Alliance OpenIDEO Issues: Carbon, environmental, CCE engagement: social, labor and supplier standards Issues: Various Engagement focus: Developing Engagement focus: Online reporting greater collaboration and innovation. and interactive CRS communication. Our suppliers are important stakeholders for us, helping us achieve We want to be transparent and OpenIDEO challenge our value chain sustainability commitments. We have continued to develop open and innovative engage with them in 2014 by holding our annual supplier sustainability channels of communication. Our website (www.cokecce.com) has virtual meeting to share our CRS goals, progress and aspirations. recently been updated to provide greater visibility of the social media We have an ongoing relationship with EcoVadis to help us better discussion occurring about our key issues. We also communicate our understand and improve the impact of our suppliers on our value sustainability progress via @CokeCCE on Twitter and are expanding chain. We are also working with external partners, such as the onto other platforms such as LinkedIn, Facebook and Google+. We Sustainable Agriculture Initiative (SAI) and the Rainforest Alliance, have also partnered with OpenIDEO to host a crowdsourcing challenge to help implement our SAGPs with our key sugar suppliers. to develop ideas as to how to improve home recycling rates. 3 As quoted in our Annual Report and 10-K. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014/2015 FACTSHEET 27/30 Our Stakeholders and Materiality — continued Stakeholder group: Stakeholder group: Customers Employees Key stakeholders: Issues: All of our material issues Customers, Every Can Counts, Engagement focus: Active Chaque Cannette Compte response and sharing of ideas. Issues: Various, but particularly Working with our employees is focused on recycling, packaging fundamental to achieving our and labeling sustainability goals. CCE has Engagement focus: Business developed an ‘Ambassador’ engagement and CRS collaboration. program to help our employees We have more than one million understand more about our customers, ranging from small products, their ingredients and Field sales discussions with a customer. independent retailers to large our wider CRS aspirations. We international chains. We have set also share CRS news on our a strategic business priority to be their most valued supplier, and intranet, iConnect, in our internal are continually reviewing and improving our processes to meet their magazine, Contour, and via digital evolving needs. We set annual customer satisfaction targets and screens across our business. Our measure our performance using surveys such as those by the bi-annual employee engagement Advantage Group. In 2014, we were rated the leading consumer goods survey highlighted CRS as the Employees at our Wakefield manufacturing company in Great Britain, the Netherlands, Belgium and Sweden, and second-highest driver of operations. the number two supplier in France, through the Advantage Survey employee engagement. group. In recent years we have also developed partnerships with some of our key customers, and through recycling NGOs, to encourage consumers to recycle more. Stakeholder group: NGOs Stakeholder group: Key stakeholders: WWF, UN Global Compact, Government/regulators Natuurpunt, WRAP Key stakeholders: Issues: Various Local and national governments Engagement focus: Improved Issues: All of our material issues, disclosure around value chain local economic impact impacts and water. We maintain relationships with national NGOs Engagement focus: Ongoing on a wide range of issues, including dialogue and collaboration those involved in climate change, on key issues. packaging recovery, obesity and We have developed good working relationships at a local and active healthy living. We are a national level with government and regulators on a variety of signatory to the UN Global Compact key issues. For example, in Great Britain, we signed up to the and its CEO Water Mandate. UK Department of Health’s Public Health Responsibility Deal, We have expanded our water making a commitment to reduce the average calories per liter replenishment partnership with in our range of sparkling drinks by 5 percent. the World Wildlife Fund (WWF), The River Nar, site of our river replenishment and have developed a further partnership with the WWF. partnership with Natuurpunt in Belgium. Stakeholder group: Communities Key stakeholders: Special Olympics, Swim Sweden, Le Sport Ça Me Dit, Real Business Challenge, Mission Olympic, Norway Cityride Issues: All of our material Issues, particularly focused on employment and wellbeing. Engagement focus: Continual development of strong local CCE employee volunteers at the partnerships. Special Olympics Summer Games. We have strong relationships with the communities in which our bottling facilities are located, and our operations provide jobs for approximately 11,6503 people across our territories. We have a wide range of community programs and hold local engagement events from our annual ‘CRS in Action Week’ to site family days. We are continually building on our community engagement programs to further involve community stakeholders. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014/2015 FACTSHEET 28/30 Governance CRS Committee of CCE’s Board of Directors – (from left to right): Andrea Saia, Cal Darden (Chairman), John F. Brock, Véronique Morali, Jan Bennink, Phoebe Wood, Laura Brightwell (CCE Executive liaison to CRS Committee). OUR COMMITMENT HIGHLIGHTS 2014 We are committed to being a responsible business, embedding 133 reports made through the RIGHT1 Call process Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability principles into our everyday decision making. (our process to address potential violations of our INTRODUCTION Code of Business Conduct). Our business is built upon trust. Our customers, suppliers and consumers 88% need to trust not only our products, but the fact that we treat our people fairly and with respect, protect the environment, and adhere to relevant of eligible employees completed the RIGHT Way laws and regulations. training program, including anti-corruption. is set out in our Corporate Governance Guidelines OUR STRATEGY and Code of Business Conduct (COBC). Further Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability information about these and other aspects of (CRS) is core to our vision of being the best our governance structure can be found on beverage sales and service company. It is a www.cokecce.com. OUR CRS GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE key component of our Operating Framework and as such is critical to our long-term, CRS GOVERNANCE CCE CRS Committee sustainable growth. Our goal is to be a CRS Our CRS Committee meets five times a year. leader in the food and beverage industry and It is primarily responsible for overseeing to embed CRS principles into our everyday progress against our Sustainability Plan. decision-making. It provides an oversight role by reviewing and managing the progress against our CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE goals, managing our CRS risks and issues, and CRS Advisory Council CCE has a strong corporate governance structure, ensuring that we take any stakeholder views with a Board of Directors (BoD) that oversees the into account. The Committee is chaired by CCE interests of the company and its shareholders. Board Director, Cal Darden. Supporting our CRS Our BoD is supported by seven committees, Committee is our CRS Advisory Council, chaired including our CRS Committee, which oversees our by Laura Brightwell, Senior Vice President of CRS strategy, and our Audit Committee, which Public Affairs and Communications. The CRS Environmental oversees compliance and risk management. We Advisory Council is a cross-functional group of Steering Committee believe that being accountable and transparent CCE leaders, who in turn chair steering groups are key operating principles. At CCE, we hold for each CRS focus area. The CRS Advisory ourselves accountable to the highest standards Council, which also meets five times a year, of corporate governance and public accessibility is supported by a network of subject matter to information about our company. Our approach experts and CRS managers from across CCE. Energy Sustainable and Climate Packaging and Change Recycling Wellbeing Community OUR OPERATING FRAMEWORK Vision Be the best beverage sales and service company Mission Delight our consumers and drive growth for our customers while proudly supporting our communities every day Sustainable To be the best we will Sustainability We win Sourcing Water Workplace Lead category Excel at serving our Drive an inclusive and Leadership together inspires us value growth customers with passionate culture with and creates world-class capabilities The value Deliver consistent long-term profitable growth Coca-Cola Company Internal CRS Network and Values Business Unit Leadership Accountable – Customer focused – Team-driven CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014/2015 FACTSHEET 28/30 Governance — continued We carry these principles through to our CASE STUDY dealings not only with our employees, but also with our customers and suppliers. Our RIGHT CALL PROCESS Supplier Guiding Principles (SGPs) are used to addition, an ethics and compliance hotline reflect and communicate our principles and The RIGHT call process is available. emphasize the importance of responsible Code of Business Conduct and Policies Any report is dealt with at both the local and workplace policies and practices, respect for corporate level by CCE’s RIGHT Call Committees human rights and environmental protection to Direct/Local Manager our suppliers. We utilize our COBC and RIGHT (RCCs), which includes representatives from Senior Manager Human Resources, Legal, Internal Control, Way model to govern how we interact with our Security, Internal Audit and Ethics & customers. In 2014, we did not receive any fines HR, Legal Compliance. The local RCC investigates for violations. E&C reported cases and provides a monthly Training anonymous report of local cases to the We provide COBC training to all CCE employees Corporate RCC. The Corporate RCC, has every three years, including to new employees Europe: 00 800 1888 9888 oversight of COBC violations across CCE, and as part of their induction. In 2014, we focused United States: 877-627-8685 is able to address trends and review whether on rolling out the training to non-computer Bulgaria: 00-800-0010, then 888-273-6008 the COBC is being applied consistently. The users, primarily in our Supply Chain function, Corporate RCC reviews these summary cases with 88 percent of these employees completing CCE champions a culture of integrity and trust and, based upon the level of risk, discusses the training. In 2015, we will expand the in a variety of ways. We have established a with management if further action should specialist e-learning modules we offer. These Code of Business Conduct (COBC) which sets be taken. This could include a policy review, modules cover topics such as Insider Trading out the expectations for behavior, as well as additional training or communication, and Special Events Awareness. a formalized process to address violations of or increased monitoring. these rules. To assist with compliance and raise awareness During 2014, we conducted 133 internal of our Gifts, Hospitality and Entertainment The RIGHT Call process has been established investigations related to potential breaches of policy, we also developed an iPhone app to address potential violations of the COBC, the COBC. Out of the 133 reported cases, two available to all employees with a company and to support employees who speak up to of which were reported via the hotline, 25 were phone, including our commercial teams. raise their concerns. There are several ways for determined not to be COBC breaches, while This app provides readily available guidance an individual to report an issue. For example, 67 cases ended in termination of the on when it may be acceptable to offer or receive a concern can be shared with an employee’s employment agreement. A variety of outcomes hospitality or entertainment, and allows line manager, Human Resources, Legal or occurred in the remaining 41 cases, ranging employees to quickly check whether they are Ethics and Compliance representative. In from no action to a warning or suspension. in compliance with our policy. Speaking up RISK MANAGEMENT AND BUSINESS PLANNING Governance In order to establish an effective Ethics and We evaluate all strategic business risks through Our Ethics and Compliance team offers Compliance program and to enhance a culture an integrated risk assessment. Social and governance, guidance and support to build a of trust, employees must be able to raise environmental risks are incorporated under culture of trust within CCE. The team promotes concerns without fear of retaliation. Under our broader categories in this risk assessment, policies (COBC) and procedures (the RIGHT RIGHT Call process, employees who suspect which is reviewed annually with our BoD. We Call process and RIGHT Way training) to ensure a violation of the COBC, or one of our policies, have identified 24 risks that cover a range of compliance, and champions ethical behavior are encouraged to contact their own manager areas, including both CRS and non-CRS issues in everything we do. or the Human Resources, Legal or Ethics and on climate change, water scarcity, waste and The team also conducts a regular compliance Compliance function. In addition, employees pollution, health and wellbeing, health and risk assessment for CCE’s key compliance risks. and external stakeholders can use a confidential safety, supplier management, ethics and This risk assessment helps us to ensure that and anonymous RIGHT Call hotline with a single compliance, and brand reputation. Each of we are always aware and have put in place telephone number in all territories. Contact these risks is assigned to a specific BoD the policies and mechanisms to comply with information for the RIGHT Call hotline is committee and members of the Executive varying local, national and international laws available on our internal webpage, is shared Leadership Team (ELT). Laura Brightwell is the and regulations. As a result of our 2014 risk during relevant training programs, and is ELT member responsible for CRS. Relevant risks assessment, we are focusing on improving our available externally at www.cokecce.com. that could materially affect our business and internal communication, training and monitoring All concerns related to the COBC are financial results are disclosed in CCE’s Annual of compliance risks over the next year. investigated by the RIGHT Call Committee, Report on Form 10-K. Code of Business Conduct a cross-functional group of senior leaders, In accordance with the precautionary principle, Our COBC outlines the behavior we expect of and by similar committees in each geographic CRS is considered within the development every employee. The COBC identifies 12 guiding business unit. The local RIGHT Call Committee process for any major project, product or new principles. For example the promotion of health has responsibility to detect, prevent and investment, and is built into our annual and and safety in the workplace, complying with investigate all incidents in their geographic long-range business planning processes. anti-corruption laws, and upholding our business unit. The Corporate RIGHT Call Progress against our Sustainability Plan is environmental commitments. It is one of the committee has oversight of COBC violations reported each year. ways we comply with the 10 universal principles across the business, addresses trends with of the UN Global Compact, which CCE signed senior leadership, and ensures consistent ETHICS AND COMPLIANCE in 2007, and supports compliance with the application of the COBC. All incidents are At CCE, we have established a RIGHT Way US Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the UK investigated and reported to the Audit model of five core ethical values: Respect, Bribery Act. The COBC, which is approved by Committee. Integrity, Good Judgement, Honesty and Trust. the BoD, is underpinned by a series of policies These values are the foundation of our COBC that provide additional guidance on issues and are qualities that underpin our decisions such as anti-corruption, gifts, hospitality and and working practices. entertainment, and insider trading, which have been approved by an ELT member. The COBC, as well as our Ethics and Compliance policies, can be found on our intranet, and both are publicly available on www.cokecce.com. 1 RIGHT stands for Respect, Integrity, Good Judgement, Honesty and Trust. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014/2015 FACTSHEET 29/30 2014 CRS Data Table Indicates our CRS performance data is assured over a three-year cycle by DNV GL. Indicates our 2014 carbon footprint has been audited by SGS. FACTSHEET NUMBER TARGET KPIs BY WHEN 2011 2012 2013 2014 7 Choice Reduce calories per liter across our Reduction in calories 2020 Not previously Not previously Not previously 5.4 Wellbeing: – Calorie product portfolio by 10 percent.1, 2 per liter (%) reported reported reported Product reduction Products which are noor 31 31 31 31.8 Portfolio low-calorie (<40 calories per 250 ml) (%) 3 Choice Offer a noor low-calorie alternative Full sugar brands with Ongoing Not previously 47.6 53.8 56 – Availability whenever regular sparkling soft a noor low-calorie reported drinks are available. alternative (%) 4 Choice Ensure that all sparkling soft drinks Products in packs that are 19 19 19 19 – Portion Size are available in small portion size 250ml or less (%) choices, and increase the availability of small packs. Nutritional Ensure clear nutritional labeling on Products with on-pack Ongoing 97 97.9 98 99 Information front of packs across all our products. GDA labeling (%) 5, 6 Quality Ensure that our products meet the Facilities accredited to ISO 9001 Ongoing 94 94 100 100 highest quality and food safety and FSSC 22000 (%) 7 standards, in line with customer Number of product quality Ongoing 1.31 1.30 1.24 1.17 expectations. complaints per million units sold (CPMU) Responsible Not market any of our products to Compliance with responsible Ongoing Measurement Measurement Measurement Measurement Marketing children under 12 and not sell our marketing, marketing to in progress in progress in progress in progress products in primary schools.1 children education channel and digital marketing guidelines (%) 8 Active Lifestyles Enable three million people to be Numbers of people engaged 2020 Measurement Measurement >900,000 1,000,000+ Wellbeing: physically active by investing in in active lifestyle programs in progress in progress Active grassroots programs which support Lifestyles active lifestyles.1 10 Carbon Reduce the carbon footprint of the drink Reduction in value chain CO 2e 2020 Not previously Measurement 17.8 19 Our Carbon Footprint in your hand by a third. emissions/total number of reported developed Footprint products, since baseline (%) Carbon Grow our business, but reduce the Carbon footprint – core 2020 771 735 658 619 Footprint – absolute carbon footprint of our core business operations Core business business operations by 50 percent. (‘000 tonnes CO 2e) 7, 8 CO 2e reduction since 2007 2020 10 15 23 29 baseline (%) 7, 8, 9 11 Manufacturing Manufacture every liter of product with CO 2e per liter of product 2020 25.37 25.5 23.56 23.8 Energy and 50 percent less emissions. manufactured (g/liter) 7 Renewable Energy use ratio 2020 81.69 81.67 72.2 74.14 Energy (kWh/1,000 liter) 7, 10 Renewable Source 40 percent of our energy from Energy sourced from 2020 Not previously Measurement 3.6 5.5 and low-carbon renewable or low-carbon sources. renewable/low-carbon sources reported developed Energy (%) 7, 10 12 Distribution Deliver a case of product with 30 percent CO 2e g per case of product 2020 Not previously Measurement 171 145 Transportation less carbon emissions. (g/case) reported developed % reduction per case delivered 2020 Not previously Not previously 12 26 reported reported 13 Cold drinks Reduce the carbon emissions from our Average CO 2e per unit of 2020 0.75 0.70 0.63 0.63 Cold Drinks equipment cold drinks equipment by an average of equipment (metric tonnes Equipment 50 percent. per unit) Reduction in average CO 2e 2020 19 23 38.7 39 per unit of equipment since baseline (%) 15 Lightweighting Reduce by 25 percent the amount of Packaging use ratio 2020 127.5 123.9 120.1 120.5 Sustainable material we use across all packaging (g/liter product) 11 Packaging formats. Total weight of packaging used 2020 384,521 367,925 368,261 346,545 (tonnes) Recycled Include recycled aluminum, glass, and Recycled aluminum, Ongoing Data 32.712 32.712 3512 Material steel in respective packaging formats. steel and glass (%) improvements in progress Total recycled materials used Ongoing 130,035 127,557 111,783 120,320 (tonnes) PET Bottles Ensure that 40 percent of the PET we use PET that is rPET (%) 13 2020 22.5 25 32 34 is recycled PET and/or PET from renewable materials. % of PET bottles that are 2020 25 26.9 33.3 27.8 PlantBottle™(%) 13 Recyclability Continue to ensure that 100 percent of Cans and bottles Annual 99 99.4 100 100 cans and bottles are fully recyclable. recyclable (%) Support the development of KPI in development 2025 Not previously Not previously Not previously Measurement infrastructure and technology to enable reported reported reported in development recycling of all other packaging materials. 1 In partnership with The Coca-Cola Company. 8 Due to a number of minor data recalculations including changes to emission factors, we have restated the 2 Against a 2010 baseline. carbon footprint of our core business operations in 2007 (our baseline year) as well as for subsequent years. 3 Measured using unit cases. 9 Our Carbon Footprint in Norway: In April 2013 we completed a business transformation project in Norway which 4 This includes all CCE’s full-sugar brands, excluding waters and hot drinks = 56%. Our most popular brands included a move to recyclable and non-refillable PET bottles and a significant change to our route to market (Coca-Cola, Fanta, Sprite) all have low-calorie alternatives and together these make up over 90% of CCE’s volume. operations. This has resulted in a significant change in emissions across our Norwegian value chain, only part of 5 We changed the way we measured against this target in 2012. Our 2011 data in this table shows the volume of our which is included within the boundaries of this carbon footprint. Additional emissions occur within our wider value products with GDA labeling. From 2012 to ensure greater focus on smaller brands, we changed the measurement to chain, which we report on as part of our ‘Drink in your hand’ value chain commitment. We no longer operate a direct products with GDA labeling rather than volume. The 2012 and 2013 numbers therefore show the percentage of our store delivery model and have eliminated the road kilometers associated with the collection and return of refillable products with GDA Labels. packaging. Instead, our customers now collect finished product directly from CCE’s factory in Oslo for onward 6 Does not include products which do not require GDA labeling such as waters and our fountain Bag in Box products. distribution. Any emissions associated with our customers’ transportation are outside of our operational control and 7 Does not include contracted packers (co-packers). are therefore not included in our carbon footprint. We will continue to review the carbon impact of this change across our value chain in the future. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014/2015 FACTSHEET 29/30 2014 CRS Data Table — continued Indicates our CRS performance data is assured over a three-year cycle by DNV GL. Indicates our 2014 carbon footprint has been audited by SGS. FACTSHEET NUMBER TARGET KPIs BY WHEN 2011 2012 2013 2014 16 Manufacturing Send zero waste to landfill from our own Total waste produced (metric 2020 34,480 32,894 28,019 27,165 Recycling manufacturing operations. tonnes) 7, 14 Waste recycled (%) 7, 14 2020 99.6 99.4 99.5 99.5 Packaging Recycle more packaging than we use, Packaging recycled 2020 Not previously 73 84 88 Recycling13 by championing improvements to as a percentage of reported collections schemes and supporting total used (%) 15 the recycling industry. Inspiring Increase packaging recovery rates Number of consumer Ongoing 4.7 million 32.3 million 46.3 million 35.3 million consumers by using our brands to educate and opportunities provided to view inspire consumers to recycle more often. brand-led recycle/recover messaging Packaging Support the wider packaging industry to KPI in development Ongoing Not previously Not previously Not previously Measurement innovation explore next-generation packaging.1 reported reported reported in development 18 Protect Protect the future sustainability of the Water returned at standard Ongoing 100 100 100 100 Water water sources we use and safely return supporting aquatic life (%) 7, 16 Stewardship to nature 100 percent of the wastewater Manufacturing plants with Ongoing 100 100 100 100 from our manufacturing operations. Source Water Protection Plans implemented (%) 7 Reduce Reduce the amount of water we use, Water use ratio 2020 1.43 1.40 1.3617 1.36 aiming to manufacture every liter of (liters water/liter product)7 product using an average of 1.2 liters of water. Total water used 2020 9.4 8.8 8.6 8.5 (million cubic meters) 7 19 Replenish Return to nature the water used in our Water replenished (% vs liters in 2020 Not previously Measurement 6.5 12 Protecting and beverages, where it is sourced from our beverages where sourced reported developed Replenishing areas of water stress by investing in from areas of water stress) 7 the Water community-based water programs.1 We Use Value chain Minimize water impacts in our Number of projects/ 2020 0 1 2 3 value chain through our sustainable partnerships established sourcing programs. 21 Ingredients Sustainably source 100 percent of our key Agricultural ingredients sourced 2020 Not previously Not previously Not previously Measurement Sustainable agricultural ingredients.1 from suppliers who comply with reported reported reported in development Agriculture our SAGPs (%) 22 Supplier Work in partnership with our suppliers to Number of suppliers completing Ongoing 129 130 140 140 Suppliers and Collaboration reduce carbon emissions across each CCE’s Carbon Challenge Sustainability stage of our value chain 24 Workplace Aspire to have a minimum Females in executive grades19 Ongoing n/a 21 24 30 Employment diversity 40 percent females in both leadership and Diversity and management grades. Females in leadership grades 2025 n/a 21 24 25 (%) 19 Females in management 2025 n/a 32 34 36 grades (%) 19 Attract Attract, develop and motivate a highly Females in workforce (%) Ongoing 23 24 24 25 talented and diverse workforce. Voluntary turnover rate (%) Ongoing 5.7 6.4 5.4 5.7 Employees with individual Ongoing 47.8 64 76 86.7 development plans (%) Average training days per employee Ongoing 3 3 2.7 2.2 25 Workplace Encourage participation in our employee % employees participating in 2020 Not previously Not previously Not previously Measurement A, Safe, Diversity wellbeing programs so that at least our employee wellbeing reported reported reported in development Healthy 50 percent of our employees take part. programs Workplace Zero Accidents Provide a safe and healthy work Lost-time accident rate Ongoing 1.20 20 1.1220 0.8920, 21 0.95 environment with a vision of achieving (number of lost-time accidents zero accidents and attaining world per 100 full-time equivalent class health and safety status. employees) 7, 22 Number of fatalities7 Ongoing 0 0 0 0 26 Social Invest one percent of our annual Pre-tax profit invested (%) 23 Annual 0.6 0.5 1.124 0.7 Community Investment pre-tax profit to support charitable and community partners and make a positive difference in the communities in which we operate. Community Invest in community projects and Total value of community Ongoing 5.7 3.9 9.124 5.9 partnerships where we can make the contributions (millions $) 23 biggest impact, aligned to our core business and CRS focus areas. Employee Support the active involvement Number of hours volunteered Ongoing 14,000 10,200 5,098 6,071 Volunteering of our employees by encouraging by CCE employees (hours) 25 them to volunteer. Supporting Support the skills development and Number of young people 2020 Not previously Not previously Not previously 130,000 young people learning needs of 250,000 young reached through our Education reported reported reported people through our Education Program Progam each year each year. 10 Includes sources: thermal energy – natural gas, heat or steam, electricity, LPG, oil, diesel and renewables – solar 16 In compliance with local regulations. PV,, geothermal. Does not include ‘output’ from CHP as natural gas ‘input energy’, as CHP is included within 17 2013 figures restated due to revisions in production litre volumes. natural gas. 18 Data gathered through internal KORE management and ISO 14001 systems. 11 We have made some minor adjustments on the timings of full implementation of some of our lightweighting 19 We have restated our diversity data from 2012-2014 to align with our new diversity commitment. projects and on how to account for the sales volumes of some of our products in the calculation of this metric. 20 Data recalculation due to data improvements. 12 Through collaboration with our suppliers we have improved our knowledge and transparency of our data 21 Cold drinks centers transferred from commercial operations. and we are now able to provide figures for 2012 and 2013. We are in the process of recalculating 2011 data. 22 CCE employees only. Whilst we capture contractor LTA data we do not include it in our LTA and we do not currently 13 Year-end figures. split by gender. Data not collected for the USA or Bulgaria, as work is solely office-based. 14 Waste data generated from manufacturing operations, and waste contractor information. 23 CCE’s community investment contributions reported using the standardized approach provided by the 15 Percentage of packaging recycled by championing improvements to collection schemes and investing in LBG methodology. strategic infrastructure projects. 2012 data recalculated due to data improvements. For further information 24 This includes significant one-off investments in 2013. see ‘Calculation methodology – CCE Packaging Recycled’. 25 Time includes both employee volunteering and employee management time. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014/2015 FACTSHEET 30/30 Independent Assurance Statement SCOPE AND APPROACH We planned and performed our work to obtain BASIS OF OUR OPINION Coca-Cola Enterprises Limited (“Coca-Cola the evidence we considered necessary to A multi-disciplinary team of sustainability Enterprises”) commissioned DNV GL Business provide a basis for our assurance opinion. We and assurance specialists performed work Assurance Services UK Limited (“DNV GL”) to are providing a ‘moderate level’ of assurance. at corporate and site level. We undertook the undertake independent assurance of its A ‘high level’ of assurance would have required following activities: Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability additional work at corporate and site level to gain further evidence to support the basis of • Review of the current corporate responsibility Report 2014/1015 (the “Report”) for the year and sustainability issues that could affect ended 31 December 2014. our assurance opinion. Coca-Cola Enterprises and are of interest to We performed our work using DNV GL’s RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE BOARD OF stakeholders; assurance methodology VeriSustain™, which DIRECTORS AND MANAGEMENT OF • Review of Coca-Cola Enterprises’ approach to is based on our professional experience, COCA-COLA ENTERPRISES AND OF stakeholder engagement and recent outputs international assurance best practice including THE ASSURANCE PROVIDERS from roundtables held with key stakeholders AA1000 Assurance Standard, International The Management of Coca-Cola Enterprises have in London, Brussels, Rotterdam and Paris in Standard on Assurance Engagements 3000 sole responsibility for the preparation of the 2014, as part of a review of Coca-Cola (ISAE 3000) and the Global Reporting Initiative Report. In performing our assurance work, Enterprises’ Sustainability Plan; (GRI) Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. We our responsibility is to the Management of evaluated the Report for adherence to the • Review of information provided to us Coca-Cola Enterprises; however our statement by Coca-Cola Enterprises on its reporting VeriSustain™ Principles (the “Principles”) of represents our independent opinion and is stakeholder inclusiveness, materiality, and management processes relating to intended to inform all of Coca-Cola Enterprises’ the Principles; responsiveness, completeness, neutrality stakeholders. DNV GL was not involved in the and reliability. preparation of any statements or data included • Interviews with seven selected Directors We evaluated the key performance data using in the Report except for this Assurance and senior managers responsible for the reliability principle together with Coca-Cola Statement. management of corporate responsibility Enterprises’ data protocols for how the data are and sustainability issues and review of This is the third year that we have provided selected evidence to support issues measured, recorded and reported. The key assurance. Our assurance team also undertook performance data in scope was: discussed; a gap assessment of the Coca-Cola Enterprises’ Energy and Renewable Energy Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability • Site visits to the following Coca-Cola • CO2e per liter of product manufactured (g/liter) Report 2013/2014 against the Global Reporting Enterprises sites to review process and Initiative (GRI) G4 Guidelines in November systems for preparing site level key • Energy use ratio (kWh/1,000 liter) performance data and implementation of 2014. We have not been involved in the • Energy sourced from renewable/low-carbon implementation of any of the recommendations corporate responsibility and sustainability sources (%) made during the course of this work. DNV GL strategy and initiatives: Distribution and Transportation provides a range of certification services to • Uxbridge, United Kingdom: European • CO2e g per case of product (g/case) Coca-Cola Enterprises, none of which constitute Headquarters Cold Drinks Equipment a conflict of interest with this assurance work. • Antwerp, Belgium: Manufacturing site, • Average CO2e per unit of equipment (kg/unit) DNV GL’s assurance engagements are distribution centre and Visitors’ Centre • Reduction in average CO2e per unit of based on the assumption that the data and • Milton Keynes, United Kingdom: equipment since baseline (%) information provided by the client to us as Manufacturing site, distribution centre, part of our review have been provided in good Education Centre and Cold Drinks Centre • HFC-free coolers purchased (%) faith. DNV GL expressly disclaims any liability Community or co-responsibility for any decision a person • Pre-tax profit invested (%) or an entity may make based on this • Total value of community contributions Assurance Statement. (millions $) • Number of hours volunteered by CCE employees (hours) We understand that the reported financial data and information are based on data from Coca-Cola Enterprises Inc’s Annual Report and Accounts 2014, which are subject to a separate audit process and the review of financial data taken from the Annual Report and Accounts is not within the scope of our work. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014/2015 FACTSHEET 30/30 Independent Assurance Statement — continued • Review of supporting evidence for key Responsiveness Neutrality claims and data in the Report. Our checking The extent to which an organisation The extent to which the Report provides processes were prioritised according to responds to stakeholder issues. a balanced account of an organisation’s materiality and we based our prioritisation The Report presents a good overview of how performance, delivered in a neutral tone. on the materiality of issues at a consolidated Coca-Cola Enterprises has consulted with a The tone in the Report is neutral, with no corporate level; wide range of key stakeholders and shows how obvious and deliberate intent to unduly • Review of the processes for gathering the company has engaged and responded to influence the reader. The Report discloses both and consolidating the specified key corporate responsibility and sustainability favourable and unfavourable performance performance data and, for a sample, issues. The publication of responses to data in accordance with the Sustainability Plan checking the data consolidation. Where stakeholder feedback on key issues linked and its focus areas. However, we recommend data had been assured by another third to its Sustainability Plan (see Factsheet 27 – Coca-Cola Enterprises provides more party or submitted to regulatory authorities, Stakeholders and Materiality) is particularly commentary on the challenges it faces in we tested transposition from these sources effective and transparent. areas of less favourable performance, for to the key performance data calculations Our Assurance Statements in the previous two example, water use ratio and lost-time accident and the Report. These included: CO2e from years have recommended updating targets and rate, and disclose its plans for improvement manufacturing, CO2e from distribution and KPIs, challenging the organization to both better going forward. transportation, and CO2e per unit of cold align these with its core business strategy and Reliability drinks equipment; and address the expectations of key stakeholders. The accuracy and comparability of information • An independent assessment of Coca-Cola Coca-Cola Enterprises has updated its presented in the Report, as well as the quality Enterprises’ reporting against the Global commitments following the review of its of underlying data management systems. Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4 Guidelines, Sustainability Plan. Many of these revised Coca-Cola Enterprises has well-established ‘Core’ level. commitments are still quite broad and more processes for compilation, submission and specific targets would make measuring approval of energy and renewable energy, OPINION performance against them easier. distribution and transportation, and cold On the basis of the work undertaken, nothing Completeness drinks equipment performance data from its came to our attention to suggest that the How much of all the information that has operations to corporate level systems. We Report does not properly describe Coca-Cola been identified as material to the organisation found a limited number of errors and omissions Enterprises’ adherence to the Principles. In and its stakeholders is reported. and these were corrected prior to inclusion in terms of reliability of the performance data, the Report. nothing came to our attention to suggest that The Report provides a good overview of these data have not been properly collated from performance across the organisation, at We recommend that Coca-Cola Enterprises information reported at operational level, nor corporate and operational levels, and includes publishes and signposts its methodology for that the assumptions used were inappropriate. upstream and downstream impacts of its collecting and reporting key performance data operations and products. The Report covers included in the ‘CRS data table’ factsheet. We believe that the Report is in line with the the organisation’s impacts over a longer time ‘Core’ requirements of the GRI G4 Guidelines. We found a limited number of material errors frame, including long-term targets and historic as well as some non-material errors in the OBSERVATIONS performance on key performance data. community investment and volunteering data, Without affecting our assurance opinion we While diversity and equal opportunities has and these were corrected prior to inclusion in also provide the following observations. been identified as a ‘hidden value creator’ the Report. These resulted from the inaccurate for the business, the current activities and application of the LBG measurement framework Materiality performance data disclosed in the Report focus at a local level, for example in the way The process for determining the issues solely on gender diversity. We restate our management time is accounted for. These that are most relevant to an organisation recommendation from last year, that Coca-Cola errors were corrected prior to publication of and its stakeholders. Enterprises should consider ways of expanding this report. We recommend that Coca-Cola Coca-Cola Enterprises has demonstrated a its reporting on other aspects of diversity, such Enterprises enhances the training given on robust and effective process for determining as disability, ethnicity and sexual orientation. applying the LBG guidance and establishes and prioritising material issues at corporate stricter controls around the data collection and Greater commentary around the sociolevel, as part of the review of its Sustainability review mechanisms for community investment economic impacts of Coca-Cola Enterprises’ Plan. The process considers inputs from a wide and volunteering data. operations across the value chain was another range of sources, including the expectations of recommendation in last year’s Assurance For and on behalf of DNV GL Business internal and external stakeholders, megatrends, Statement. Since then, the business has Assurance Services UK Limited London, UK financial considerations, policies and contributed to thought leadership in this area 1 June 2015 regulations, corporate and local environments, by commissioning a study on Combining Profit and overall sustainability context. and Purpose. Socioeconomic contributions Stakeholder inclusiveness through direct spend on suppliers and taxation The participation of stakeholders in are measured and commentary is expanded in developing and achieving an accountable this year’s Report. We recommend that future and strategic response to sustainability. Reports provide quantifiable measures of Mark Line We observed a good level of stakeholder economic activity in the post-consumer value Senior Principal Consultant and Lead Assuror engagement as part of the review of Cocachain – focussing on recycling in particular. UK Sustainability, DNV GL – Business Assurance Cola Enterprises’ Sustainability Plan and day-to-day business activities at corporate and operational level. The engagement considers the views of a wide range of internal and external stakeholders and is Jon Woodhead well demonstrated in the Report through Regional Assessment Services Manager examples and case studies, such as the and Reviewer Future for Sustainability Summit held in 2014 DNV GL Business Assurance Services UK Limited UK Sustainability, DNV GL – Business Assurance (see Factsheet 07 – Innovate for the Future). is part of DNV GL – Business Assurance, a global provider of certification, verification, assessment and training services, helping customers to build sustainable business performance. www.dnvgl.com Coca-Cola Enterprises, Inc. 2500 Windy Ridge Parkway Atlanta, GA 30339 +1 678 260-3000 European Headquarters Coca-Cola Enterprises, Ltd. Enterprises House Bakers Road Uxbridge UB8 1EZ GB +44 1895 231313 Contact: crs@cokecce.com wwww.cokecce.com www.ccesustainabilityplan.com Coca-Cola Enterprises is an Equal Opportunity Employer. Copyright 2011, Coca-Cola Enterprises, Inc. “Coca-Cola” is a registered trademark of The Coca-Cola Company.
