BIGGER PICTURE 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT CONTENTS Click on page links Sustainability Customer at Telstra experience About our reporting 03 Context 03 Message from the Chariman and CEO 04 Our performance 04 Financial and sustainability highlights 05 Customer advocacy 05 Our performance 06 Protecting privacy 13 Our approach 07 Cyber safety 15 Stakeholder engagement 09 About our reporting 17 Material topics 11 Responsible Connecting business communities Context 03 Context 03 Our performance 04 Our performance 04 Ethics, values and governance 05 Everyone connected 05 Committed to responsible Disaster relief and recovery 11 business practice 07 Volunteering and giving 12 Sustainable procurement 09 Summary of social and Mobile phones, towers community investment 14 and health (EME) 11 About our reporting 15 About our reporting 13 Our people Environmental stewardship Context 03 Context 03 Our performance 04 Our performance 04 Culture and engagement 05 Environment Strategy 05 Diversity and inclusion 09 Environmental Customer Health and safety 13 Value Propostion 06 Employment and workplace relations 16 Operational excellence 07 Workforce data 17 Sustainable supply chain 16 About our reporting 19 About our reporting 17 Bigger Picture 2015 Sustainability Report ABOUT OUR REPORTING Our business About our sustainability Information regarding the controlled entities in the Telstra Group can be found Telstra is Australia’s leading reporting in Note 25 to the Financial Statements in telecommunications and information Our sustainability reporting comprises the 2015 Annual Report. services company, offering a full range of the Bigger Picture 2015 Sustainability communications services and competing Report, our sustainability website and a in all telecommunications markets. Assurance concise summary of our approach and We employ over 36,000 people directly, Independent assurance supports our performance in our 2015 Annual Report. facilitate access to more than 2,000 commitment to transparency and Through our reporting we aim to provide network points of presence across the accountability. To provide confidence for information on sustainability issues globe and have one of Australia’s largest our stakeholders in our reporting Ernst relevant to our business and of importance shareholder bases, with around 1.4 million & Young provides limited assurance, to our stakeholders, as defined through our shareholders. in accordance with the ISAE 3000 annual materiality process. The material standard, over specified data and related We have a diverse range of customers, topics addressed within each chapter performance disclosures in our 2015 including consumer, small business, large of this report are outlined on page 12, and Annual Report and Bigger Picture 2015 enterprise and government organisations, on the context page of each corresponding Sustainability Report, as well as an and we strive to put them at the centre of chapter. assessment of Telstra's application of everything we do. In Australia, our services We develop our sustainability reporting the principle of materiality, as outlined in are offered through 371 Telstra-branded in accordance with industry and the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4 retail stores, 84 Telstra Business Centres, sustainability standards including the guidelines. 137 Telstra business and enterprise United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) partners and are distributed by over 18,700 Communication on Progress and the retail points of presence managed by our Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4 Core You can access Ernst & Young’s assurance partners. Sustainability Reporting Guidelines, and statement at In Australia we provide approximately with reference to AccountAbility’s AA1000 www.telstra.com/sustainability/report/about 16.7 million retail mobile services, 6.0 Principles Standard 2008. million retail fixed voice services and 3.1 Feedback million retail fixed data services. Telstra’s We welcome your feedback on our international businesses operate in 20 For more information visit sustainability reporting, approach countries around the world and include www.telstra.com/sustainability/report and performance. Please email Tim Telstra’s global networks and managed O’Leary, Chief Sustainability Officer at services business, as well as Telstra’s Scope sustainability@team.telstra.com China-based search and advertising Our sustainability reporting covers the business, Autohome Inc. financial year 1 July 2014 to 30 June 2015 Stay in touch (FY15) for Telstra Corporation Limited. All We understand our customers want twitter.com/telstra controlled entities are excluded unless technology and content solutions that facebook.com/telstra otherwise stated. are simple and easy to use – that’s why Sustainability Matters we have built networks like Australia’s As our international operations expand www.telstra.com/sustainability/subscribe largest fully integrated internet protocol we are committed to developing a (IP) network and Australia’s largest mobile global framework for sustainability data network. collection and reporting. Starting with our most material operations overseas we will United Nations Global Compact continue to expand on the scope of our You will find the icon below throughout reporting over time. the Bigger Picture 2015 Sustainability Wherever possible and relevant under the Report. It indicates where we are G4 guidelines we have extended the scope providing information on our progress in of this report to include our operations implementing the ten principles of the across the Telstra Group, as well as a United Nations Global Compact. discussion of any broader impacts across our value chain. Bigger Picture 2015 Sustainability Report 03 MESSAGE FROM THE CHAIRMAN AND CEO It has been a year of progress and change affected by domestic violence stay safely contributed $1.5 million to over 300 charities for Telstra and the telecommunications connected to friends, family, essential services and we provided 700 Telstra Kids Fund grants, industry. More people and businesses and other vital sources of support and worth almost $1 million, for local community are embracing the exciting benefits and information. organisations close to our employees’ hearts. possibilities that connectivity brings. High Through the Telstra Foundation we also use As a major Australian company with increasingly speed networks, smart devices, mobile our technical expertise to assist community global operations, we remain committed to applications and the rapidly growing organisations with an appetite for social upholding the principles of the United Nations Internet of Things are transforming the innovation. This year the Foundation Global Compact wherever we operate. The way we work, play and interact. provided five new social innovation grants to UNGC encourages businesses worldwide to Against this backdrop, Telstra has continued organisations including Code Club Australia, adopt sustainable and socially responsible to perform strongly investing in our core which is working to ensure primary school policies and practices, and to report on their business, building pathways to future growth children have the chance to learn to write implementation. This year we officially launched and improving customer advocacy. However, our computer code, supporting the development the Telstra Foundation Philippines, our first purpose – to create a brilliant connected future of foundational technology and digital literacy international Foundation, which aims to assist for everyone – demands more than a brilliant skills in Australian schools. Our support saw Filipino youth and promote education in the customer experience. the acceleration of a ‘train the trainer’ program Philippines. targeting 500 teachers and prioritising schools In many parts of the world, digital connectivity is We recognise and are sensitive to the fact in low socio-economic areas. now seen as an essential service with internet that our ability to succeed depends on how access underpinning economic development, Along with contributing to our communities, we respond to the changing social and social connections, education, the arts, Telstra is committed to minimising our environmental expectations of our employees, employment and social services. In this context, environmental impacts and working with our customers, investors, regulators and the wider Telstra continues to focus on bridging the customers to achieve better environmental public. digital divide to ensure everyone, irrespective outcomes. We hope our Bigger Picture 2015 Sustainability of age, income, ability or location can enjoy the Report gives you a deeper understanding of social, economic and cultural benefits of being connected. This year we achieved the way we are responding to a broad range of important environmental, social and economic This year we provided $185 million worth of a 27 per cent decrease issues. benefits to our customers and communities in carbon emissions We welcome your comments, feedback and ideas. through our Everyone Connected programs. intensity, placing us in We continue to work with community, government and non-profit partners to foster a good position to meet digital access and inclusion and to help our three year emissions people build the confidence and skills needed intensity reduction target. to participate safely in the digital world. We reached almost 117,000 people through our Projects undertaken to improve the energy digital literacy programs, including providing efficiency of our networks and operations also face-to-face training for 32,000 people. reduced our overall carbon footprint by 35,000 tonnes this year. An independent study of our Tech Savvy Seniors training program, undertaken by the University Our people are key to our ability to achieve our of Melbourne this year found a clear social purpose, and with over 36,000 of us, we have the return on our investment through strengthened opportunity to make a big difference. connections with family and friends, greater This year our people contributed over 7,200 community involvement and better utilisation of volunteering days in the community, getting Andrew Penn online information and services. behind a variety of causes from bushfire Chief Executive Officer This year we also launched Telstra Safe recovery with Habitat for Humanity, to preparing Catherine Livingstone AO Connections in partnership with Women’s and serving food to people in need with the Chairman Services Network. The program helps women Red Cross. Our matched payroll giving program Bigger Picture 2015 Sustainability Report 04 30.5 NET PROFIT FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS CENT TOTAL NET PROFIT AFTERAFTER + TAX1 TAX1 $1b SHARE 30.5TOTALTOTAL CENTBUY-BACK TOTAL INCOME INCOME 2 = 2 + $4.7b $1b INVESTED INVESTED WIRELESS WIRELESS NETWORK DISTRIBUTION SHARE BUY-BACK IN IN TO NETWORK = DIVIDEND PER SHARE DIVIDEND PER SHARE SHAREHOLDERS THE YEAR AT A GLANCE $4.3b 26.6b $4.3b $26.6b $1b $26.6b DrivingDriving value from valuethe fromcore the core $ 4G4G NET PROFIT SERVICE TOTAL INCOME SERVICE NOW NOW AFTER TAX REACHING 1 REACHING 1 94% 94% 4GX NET INTO 1,200 4GX 2.2m TOTAL PROFIT PROFIT INCOME INTO 1,200 CUSTOMERS AFTER AFTER 2 TAX2 1 TAX 2.2m 16.7m CUSTOMERS ON WIRELESS INVESTED TOTAL IN ON DOMESTIC 16.7m INCOME 2 NETWORK DOMESTIC RETAIL RETAIL Financial highlights of the Australian of the Australian population population suburbs suburbs and and towns towns A BUNDLEDA BUNDLED PLAN PLAN MOBILE MOBILE CUSTOMERS CUSTOMERS 18.4 FOXTEL 30.5 CENT 18.4 Driving value from the core FOXTEL FROM % % TOTAL FROM + $1b DrivingBETTER-VALUE SHARE value from more data BETTER-VALUE more BUY-BACK the corePLANS data allowances allowances = $4.7b and and PLANS DISTRIBUTION 4,000 4,000 TO 16.7m2.2m real-time alerts alerts Wi-Fi hotspots Wi-Fi hotspots for for 2.2m 4GX real-time 4G 4GX 4G TELSTRA TELSTRA DIVIDEND SUBSCRIBERS SUBSCRIBERS PER SHARE SHAREHOLDERS TelstraTelstra Air launch ® Air launch ® SUSTAINABILITY HIGHLIGHTS $4.3b $26.6b $1b SERVICE NOW REACHING 94% INTO SERVICE 1,200 NOW REACHING CUSTOMERS 94%ON INTODOMESTIC 1,200 RETAIL CUSTOMERS ON of the Australian population suburbsof theand towns population Australian A BUNDLED PLAN MOBILE CUSTOMERS suburbs and towns A BUNDLED PLA Sustainability Sustainability 18.4 NAMED % NET PROFIT AFTER TAX 1 18.4 % TOTAL INCOMEPLANS 2 INVESTED IN 4,000 214M BETTER-VALUE BETTER-VALUE WIRELESS NETWORK PLANS $214m $214m NAMED AUSTRALIA’SAUSTRALIA’S MOST MOST more data allowances and TOTAL more VALUE data allowances OF SOCIAL and FOXTEL FROM FOXTEL FROM SOCIAL AND SOCIAL AND hotspots COMMUNITY Wi-Fi AND COMMUNITY COMMUNITY for 3real-time 3 alerts real-time alerts TELSTRA SUBSCRIBERS RESPECTED RESPECTED COMPANY COMPANY TELSTRA SUBSCRIBERS CONTRIBUTIONSCONTRIBUTIONS CONTRIBUTIONS Telstra Air launch ® Driving value from the core OVER 35,000 TONNES OF TELSTRA LAUNCHED TELSTRA SAFE SAFE TELSTRA CONNECTIONS CONNECTIONS SAFE CONNECTIONS THE TELSTRA THE CARBON TELSTRA FOUNDATION EMISSIONS FOUNDATION SAVINGS LAUNCHED TO HELP WOMEN IMPACTED 2.2m 16.7m LAUNCHED TO HELP WOMEN IMPACTED 4G 4GX to help women impacted by domestic violence PHILIPPINES Sustainability PHILIPPINES LAUNCHED THROUGH PROJECT INITIATIVES LAUNCHED Sustainability BY DOMESTICBY DOMESTIC VIOLENCE VIOLENCE STAY STAY CONNECTED CONNECTED RESPECTED117K 27% CUSTOMERS ON $214m $214m SERVICE NOW REACHING 94% INTO 1,200 DOMESTIC RETAIL of the Australian NAMED AUSTRALIA’S MOST NAMED AUSTRALIA’S MOST REACHED population suburbs and towns A REDUCED BUNDLED PLAN SOCIAL OUR CARBON AND COMMUNITY MOBILE CUSTOMERS Profit 1 Profit for1the year ALMOST for the from year from continuing COMPANY continuing operations. operations. For more For detail more3 referdetail to refer page RESPECTED XXtoofpage the XX Full of the Year Full Year Results EMISSIONS Results and COMPANY and Operations CONTRIBUTIONS INTENSITY Operations Review. 3 Review. BY 18.4% 2 Total 2 Total income income figures arefigures are on a continuing on a continuing basis and basis operationsoperations exclude and exclude finance finance income. Onincome. a guidance Totalbasis guidance On a basis IncomeTotal wasIncome $26.3b.was $26.3b. Please Please refer to therefer Fullto Full Year Results theResults Year 4,000 page XXonand Review onReview and Operations and Operations page page andfor XX XX page more for more XXdetail anddetail guidance guidance reconciliation. and reconciliation. people 3 Announced inthrough 3 Announced November ourThe in November 2014. digital 2014. literacy The Most Respected programs Most Respected Companies Companies list is the list is the result study of of aresult a study conducted conducted by Review Financial by Financial Review Group in partnership with globalwith Group in partnership global management management consultancy consultancy Hay Group.Hay Group. BETTER-VALUE PLANS 476 15M more data TELSTRA allowances SAFE and CONNECTIONS TELSTRA SAFE CO THE FOXTEL TELSTRA FROM FOUNDATION THEreal-timeTELSTRA LAUNCHED alerts FOUNDATION TO HELP WOMEN IMPACTED LAUNCHED Wi-Fi hotspots for TO HEL PHILIPPINES TELSTRA 04 04 LAUNCHED SUBSCRIBERS EMPLOYED PHILIPPINES PEOPLE LAUNCHED BY DOMESTIC VIOLENCE STAY CONNECTED MORE THAN Telstra Air ® launch BY DOMESTIC VIOL with disability or from a disadvantaged background SMS sent to customers highlighting through our Supported Workforce program responsible mobile phone use 30,000 1 Profit for the year from continuing operations. For more detail refer 1 Profit to pageforXX theofyear fromYear the Full continuing Resultsoperations. and Operations For more Review. detail refer to page XX of the Full Year Results and Operations Review. Sustainability 2 Total income figures are on a continuing operations basis and exclude 2 Total income finance income. figuresOn area on guidance a continuing Total Income basis operations wasand basis $26.3b. exclude finance Please refer income. to the Full OnYear a guidance Resultsbasis Total Income was SURVEYED and Operations Review on page XX and page XX for more detail andand guidance Operations Review on page XX and page XX for more detail and guidance reconciliation. reconciliation. NAMED AS AN EMPLOYER 3 Announced in November 2014. The Most Respected Companies list consultancy Hay Group. ON AVERAGE 3 Announced is the resultinofNovember consultancy Hay Group. a study conducted 2014. Theby Most Financial Respected ReviewCompanies Group in partnership OF CHOICE GENDER EQUALITY a study withofglobal list is the result management conducted by Financial Review Gro NAMED AUSTRALIA’S MOST $214m BY THE WGEA 4 customers per day and used their feedback SOCIAL AND COMMUNITY 04 RESPECTED COMPANY to improve customer experience 04 3 CONTRIBUTIONS TELSTRA AIR 12.5% ® THE TELSTRALAUNCHED FOUNDATION TELSTRA SAFE CONNECTIONS PHILIPPINES LAUNCHED AUSTRALIA’S LARGEST LAUNCHED TODOWN HELP WOMEN IMPACTED WI-FI NETWORK BY DOMESTIC VIOLENCE STAY CONNECTED Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate of 0.98 1 Total income figures are on a continuing operations basis and exclude finance income. On a guidance basis total income was $26.3b. For more detail and guidance reconciliation, please refer to the Full Year Results and Operations Review on page 20 and page 180 in our 2015 Annual Report: www.telstra.com.au/aboutus/investors/financial-information/reports-and-presentations/ 1 Profit for the year from continuing operations. For more detail refer to page XX of the Full Year Results and Operations Review. Profit 2 2Total for the figures income year from continuing are operations. on a continuing operations detailand referexclude For morebasis Full YearOn 20 of theincome. to page finance Results and Operations a guidance Review basis Total Income wasof$26.3b. section our 2015 Annual Please Report: refer www.telstra.com.au/aboutus/ to the Full Year Results investors/financial-information/reports-and-presentations/ and Operations Review on page XX and page XX for more detail and guidance reconciliation. Announced in November 3 3Announced November2014. The 2014. Most The Respected Most Companies Respected Companies listresult list is the is theofresult a study ofconducted by Financialby a study conducted Review Financial in partnership GroupReview Group in with global management partnership consultancy with global Hay Group. management 4consultancy WGEA is the Hay Group.Government Workplace Gender Equality Agency Australian Bigger Picture 2015 Sustainability Report 05 OUR PERFORMANCE Performance overview We achieved or made significant progress against 81 per cent of our stated targets in FY15. 51% 30% 19% Progress against our sustainability scorecard can be found in the table below, and information on our full range of FY15 targets can be found in each corresponding chapter. Achieved In progress Not achieved Sustainability scorecard FY15 FY15 Key performance indicator FY14 FY13 FY16 Target For more information Target Performance Employee engagement Our people 84 -1 82 802 84 Score (%) Page 08 LTIFR: 0.98 Health and safety Introduce new New Our people Lost Time Injury Frequency 1.12 1.36 <1 measure measure Page 15 Rate (LTIFR) introduced3 Gender equality Our people Women in executive 30 25.6 25.9 25.4 30 Page 09 management (%) Volunteering during Telstra time Connecting communities 10,000 7,225 5,122 4,248 10,000 Total (days) Page 12 Payroll giving Connecting communities 6.0 5.8 5.3 3.6 6.0 Participation rate (%) Page 12 Social and community investment Targeted Targeted Connecting communities 213.5 216.6 231.0 Value (millions) investment investment Page 14 Targeted digital literacy Connecting communities community programs 165 117 143 146 404 Page 08 People reached (000s) 55% Carbon emissions intensity 55% reduction Environmental stewardship 0.42 0.58 0.83 reduction by tCO2e per terabyte of data by end of FY175 Page 07 end of FY175 E-waste Environmental stewardship 14.0 15.6 15.3 14.0 14.0 Mobile phones (tonnes collected) Page 13 Notes: 1 – As a whole of company employee engagement survey was not undertaken during the reporting period, we are unable to report on this metric for FY15. 2 – 2013 results adjusted to exclude CSL and Sensis (79 per cent was previously reported). 3 – In FY15 we established baseline figures for a number of new HSE performance measures, which are currently used internal reporting purposes. For FY16, LTIFR remains our externally reported health and safety metric. 4 – Our target for FY16 is lower than in previous years, due to our increased focus on delivering face-to-face training. This training is more resource-intensive to deliver, but results in better learning outcomes for participants. 5 – FY15-FY17 target, calculated from a baseline year of FY14. Bigger Picture 2015 Sustainability Report 06 OUR APPROACH Our strategic ambition is to embed social and environmental considerations into the heart of the business in ways that create value. Everyone Connected We believe that the more connected people are, the more opportunities they have. We want everyone – regardless of age, income, ability or location to enjoy the benefits that new communications technologies can bring. Our Everyone Connected programs focus on making our products and services more accessible, enhancing digital literacy and cyber safety, and supporting technological innovation for social good. Environmental leadership We are working to be more proactive and strategic in our approach to the environment. We’re approach Telstra’s Executive Committee. Regular doing this by identifying and reports on sustainability progress and minimising the material impacts of At Telstra, our purpose is to create a key developments are provided to the brilliant connected future for everyone. our operations, working with our CEO and the Telstra Board. Telstra’s Chief The success of our business relies on it, suppliers to improve their Sustainability Officer provides strategic and our sustainability agenda is key to environmental performance and leadership for sustainability and is achieving it. using our products and services to responsible for the implementation of our As a large telecommunications company, approach and programs. assist our customers to manage their we are committed to finding innovative, environmental impacts. tech-based solutions to our biggest social Sustainability priorities and environmental challenges. We work Employee involvement Our strategic ambition is to embed social with our customers and suppliers, engage and environmental considerations into We aim to make Telstra a great our employees and develop partnerships the heart of the business in ways that place to work, enhance our reputation with government and not for profit create value. As a large company in an and strengthen the communities in organisations to deliver programs that increasingly dynamic industry, we are well which we operate by providing create targeted value in our communities, positioned to make a difference. particularly for those most vulnerable, and opportunities for our people to get for the environment. Our three strategic sustainability priorities involved with their local communities reflect the areas in which we can have the Governance of Telstra’s sustainability and the issues that matter. most cultural, reputational, commercial strategy and performance is provided by and social impact. the Telstra Sustainability Council, which is chaired by the CEO and comprises Bigger Picture 2015 Sustainability Report 07 TELSTRA’S PURPOSE IS TO CREATE A BRILLIANT CONNECTED FUTURE FOR EVERYONE We’re Australia’s leading telecommunications and information services company, offering a full range of communications services within multiple markets. We operate in an industry that’s To achieve our purpose and ensure everyone enjoys transforming the way people live and connect. the benefits of being connected, we must embed social and environmental considerations into the heart of our business in ways that create value. Our sustainability strategy is key to this. EMPLOYEE INVOLVEMENT ENVIRONMENTAL LEADERSHIP We believe that with over 36,000 of us, We’re determined to reduce our Telstra employees can make a big environmental impacts, and to help our customers reduce theirs. We believe difference by getting involved in the communications technology will give us new community and the issues that matter. and better ways to create environmental EVERYONE CONNECTED solutions that are truly inspired. We believe that everyone regardless of age, income, ability or location should enjoy the benefits of being connected to modern communications technology. We want everyone to have the confidence and skills to participate safely in the digital world. INCREASED USE OF ICT IN AUSTRALIA CAN SAVE UP TO $8.1BN A YEAR IN ELECTRICITY, FUEL & AVIATION TRAVEL COSTS 600,000 REGISTERED CHARITIES IN AUSTRALIA RELY ON VOLUNTEER SUPPORT AND DONATIONS $ ELECTRICITY COSTS HAVE MORE THAN DOUBLED IN 52% OF TEENS REGRET THE PAST 10 YEARS POSTS THEY’VE MADE ONLINE ICT IS RESPONSIBLE 42 MILLION TONNES OF FOR 2% OF E-WASTE ARE GENERATED ANNUAL GLOBAL TELSTRA EMPLOYEES GLOBALLY EACH YEAR WHO VOLUNTEER TAKE GHG EMISSIONS 1/2 AS MANY SICK DAYS BY 2030 20% PER YEAR AND ARE OF AUSTRALIANS MORE ENGAGED WILL BE OVER 65 4 MILLION AUSTRALIANS EXPERIENCE DIGITAL EXCLUSION ONLY 46% OF SENIOR AUSTRALIANS ARE INTERNET USERS ? IN FY15 • Our employees completed 7,225 days of • Our Everyone Connected programs delivered • Our carbon emissions intensity decreased by 27% community volunteering $185 million worth of benefits to our customers and communities • We doubled the amount of e-waste we recycled, • We donated $1.5 million to over 300 charities diverting 3,936 tonnes from landfill via matched payroll giving • We reached almost 117,000 people through our digital literacy programs • We avoided over 35,000 tonnes of carbon • We got involved in the issues that matter, such emissions through energy efficiency initiatives as human rights, the environment and • We launched Telstra Safe Connections, helping women impacted by domestic violence to stay • We diverted 15.6 tonnes of mobile phones and anti-corruption, in line with our UN Global safely connected accessories from landfill, exceeding our target of Compact commitments Bigger Picture 2015 Sustainability Report 10 14 tonnes STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT We know that we build greater trust with our stakeholders when we are transparent and accountable. As a company that connects with nearly Detailed information on how we have chapter of the report are outlined in the every Australian in some way, we have engaged on and responded to each of diagram on page 14, and on the Context many stakeholders. Our stakeholders are these issues can be found throughout the page of each chapter. any group or individual that influences, Bigger Picture 2015 Sustainability Report. or is impacted by Telstra’s activities, as The key issues addressed within each identified through ongoing engagement, feedback and analysis. Stakeholder group Key sustainability issues We want our stakeholders to be advocates for Telstra, so we work to develop quality Communities Customer experience relationships through meaningful Privacy and data protection We engage with our communities engagement. This helps us to keep abreast Digital access and inclusion wherever we operate. This includes not of evolving social and environmental Resource use, waste and e-waste for profit organisations and program expectations, and use stakeholder insights Energy efficiency and carbon emissions partners, as well as community groups to develop targeted products, services and and individuals local to our operations. programs, as well as to drive advocacy. Our approach to stakeholder engagement Customers Customer experience is guided by the Telstra values, in Privacy and data protection Our customers are residential consumers, particular ‘show you care’ and ‘better Digital access and inclusion small to medium enterprises, large together’. Our engagement takes many Resource use, waste and e-waste companies and organisations and forms, including face-to-face interactions, Energy efficiency and carbon emissions government, and are represented by peak surveys, social media and market bodies such as consumer groups. research. We are active in industry groups, participate in relevant networks and Employees Customer experience forums, and we have teams across the Attracting talent and employee Our workforce is large and diverse, with company that manage relationships with development over 36,000 employees in 20 countries specific stakeholder groups. Culture and engagement around the world. We know that we build greater trust Volunteering and giving with our stakeholders when we are Diversity and inclusion transparent and accountable. Monitoring, measuring and reporting on our approach Government Digital access and inclusion and performance – good and bad – helps Customer experience We engage with government at local, us to achieve this. The high-level topics Privacy and data protection state and federal level in Australia, as and concerns raised by our stakeholders Indigenous Australians well as at regional and international this year are outlined in the table to the Ethics, values and governance levels, from ministers and party leaders to right, and are a key component of our department staff. materiality assessment. Industry Ethics, values and governance Sustainable procurement We engage with our sector peers and Digital access and inclusion competitors, as well as information Energy efficiency and carbon emissions and communication technology (ICT) Culture and engagement and telecommunications specific associations. Bigger Picture 2015 Sustainability Report 09 Sustainability at Telstra Stakeholder engagement Voluntary sustainability Stakeholder group Key sustainability issues initiatives To ensure continuous improvement Shareholders and investment Energy efficiency and carbon emissions Privacy and data protection and to guide, benchmark and assess community our sustainability performance, we Community investment Our investment community comprises Tax management participate in the following voluntary institutional investors, buy and sell-side Sustainable procurement initiatives: analysts, and around 1.4 million retail Australian Packaging Covenant shareholders, some of whom invest with Carbon Disclosure Project social and environmental preferences. FTSE4Good Media Network and Wi-Fi investment Global eSustainability Initiative Structural changes to the business We regularly engage with representatives Global Reporting Initiative Customer experience from print, radio, TV, social and Privacy and data protection MobileMuster online media at a local, national and Telstra and the NBN international level. Supply Nation Telco Together Foundation Unions Workplace relations Transparency International Australia Structural changes to the business We work closely with the relevant Global growth and job creation United Nations Global Compact. employee trade unions in all jurisdictions (employment security in Australia) – including CPSU, CEPU, AMWU and Health, safety and wellbeing Professionals Australia. Diversity and inclusion Suppliers Sustainable procurement Resource use, waste and e-waste We engage around 4,800 suppliers each Energy efficiency and carbon emissions year with total spend of around $6.8 Human rights billion. Conflict minerals Regulators Customer experience Digital access and inclusion We work closely with industry regulators Ethics, values and governance in all our markets. Privacy and data protection Resource use, waste and e-waste Bigger Picture 2015 Sustainability Report 10 MATERIAL TOPICS MATERIAL TOPICS Energy efficiency and Resource use, waste and e-waste carbon emissions Digital access and inclusion Customer experience Privacy and data protection Ethics, values and governance ICT innovation enabling sustainability STAKEHOLDER SIGNIFICANCE Diversity and inclusion Mobile phones, towers Digital literacy Human rights and health (EME) Attracting talent and Sustainable procurement employee development Social impacts of increased ICT use Community investment Renewable energy Cyber safety Health, safety and wellbeing eHealth Depleting natural resources Cloud computing Ageing population Indigenous Australians Culture and engagement Sust. development in emerging markets Sustainable products Volunteering and giving Workplace relations Rapid urbanisation Internet of Things Tax management (Indirect) economic impacts of ICT Telstra and the NBN Global growth/ job creation Circular economy Structural changes Disaster relief and recovery in the business Conflict minerals Intensifying market competition Network/Wi-Fi investment BUSINESS SIGNIFICANCE We undertake a formal, consultative and gained from participation in industry and Rather, these issues are monitored and, rigorous materiality process each year cross sector initiatives, peer benchmarking where required, managed within Telstra to ensure we identify and respond to the and future trends analysis. to enable us to respond proactively to risks sustainability issues and opportunities We assess and validate our findings and opportunities as they arise. that are most important to our business internally each year, based on our ability As outlined in the matrix above, this and stakeholders. to address or influence each issue. year our assessment identified our In accordance with AccountAbility’s We also test them externally through most significant sustainability risks AA1000 Principles Standard (2008) and ongoing engagement and feedback and opportunities as being: the GRI G4 guidelines, we review the from key stakeholder groups. In FY15 we Customer experience current and emerging sustainability engaged over 100 of our key community issues impacting Telstra and the ICT and industry stakeholders, institutional Energy efficiency and carbon emissions industry, and draw on the feedback we investors and Telstra executives to get their Digital access and inclusion receive from our stakeholders to identify view of our most material sustainability our key sustainability issues, risks and issues. Ethics, values and governance opportunities. Privacy and data protection The results of our materiality assessment Resource use, waste and e-waste We prioritise issues according to their help inform Telstra’s sustainability strategy Digital literacy relative impact on our business and our and programs. We also use our findings to Human rights stakeholders, as determined through identify emerging sustainability trends and analysis of a wide variety of sources. issues that have the potential to become Diversity and inclusion Inputs include internal documents, such more significant in the medium term. Sustainable procurement as the Telstra Group risk register and We do not publicly report in detail on these Cyber safety business strategy, as well as insights issues, highlighted in grey above. Culture and engagement ICT innovation enabling sustainability. Bigger Picture 2015 Sustainability Report 11 Sustainability at Telstra Material topics TOMERS AT TH UR CUS The way we respond to our most material G O E CE topics has flow-on effects throughout TTIN NTR Telstra’s value chain. The infographic PU OME R EXPERIENCE E T below identifies where these issues are CUS CO most material within and outside of our ES Customer experience BETTER ENVIRONME ESS ETHICALLY IP Privacy & data protection BUSIN organisation, and how our stakeholders Cyber safety NTA ICT innovation enabling are impacted. UR sustainability LO GO eHealth The GRI aspects and indicators we’ve Network & UT Energy efficiency & Ethics, values & E ENVIRONMENTAL S TIN E BUSIN SS reported on throughout the Bigger Picture carbon emissions Wi-Fi investment governance CO Resource use, waste & Sustainable procurement 2015 Sustainability Report, as well as their TEW UC SIBL e-waste Human rights M internal and external boundaries, have Sustainable procurement Mobile phones, towers AR ND ON ICT innovation enabling & health been determined through our materiality SP sustainability Sustainable development DS process and can be found in the GRI Index Renewable energy in emerging markets RE Cloud computing Indigenous Australians H that accompanies this report. In instances where aspect boundaries extend beyond Digital access the scope of our reporting, we are working & inclusion Diversity & inclusion to increase our disclosures. Digital literacy Culture & engagement Cyber safety Attracting talent & employee Detailed information on our performance Community investment development T AC EC Social impacts of increased Health, safety & wellbeing in FY15 and our commitments for FY16 NN G ICT use Workplace relations ET can be found throughout the Bigger Picture CO IN IN Disaster relief Volunteering & giving OW IDG PL E G & recovery OR 2015 Sustainability Report. Information BR CO P EO K TH MU M R L on our approach to managing our material ED NITIE OU TP topics can be found throughout each report IGI S A TAL RE chapter, as outlined in the diagram to the DIVI G AG IN right. For information regarding Telstra and DE CREAT the NBN, please see our 2015 Annual Report. SUSTAINABILITY IMPACTS ACROSS OUR VALUE CHAIN WE PURCHASED $6.8 BILLION TELSTRA IS AUSTRALIA’S LEADING WE HAVE A DIVERSE IN GOODS AND SERVICES THIS YEAR FROM TELECOMMUNICATIONS AND RANGE OF CUSTOMERS 4,800 SUPPLIERS INFORMATION SERVICES COMPANY including consumer, small business, IN AUSTRALIA AND OVERSEAS large enterprises and government 36,000 2,000+ NETWORK organisations, and we strive to put them at the centre of everything we do 43% ELECTRONICS AND EMPLOYEES POINTS OF PRESENCE NETWORK COMPONENTS IN 20 COUNTRIES AROUND THE WORLD WE ARE COMMITTED TO KEEPING e.g. mobile phones and IT equipment 1.4 MILLION OUR COMMUNITIES CONNECTED We believe that everyone should enjoy the 56% SERVICES SHAREHOLDERS benefits of being connected to modern e.g. network engineering support and property management 84 TELSTRA 371 communications technology, regardless of age, income, TELSTRA BRANDED BUSINESS CENTRES RETAIL STORES ability or location KEY IMPACTS FOR OUR STAKEHOLDERS OUR SUPPLIERS: OUR PEOPLE: OUR CUSTOMERS: Resource use, waste and e-waste Diversity and inclusion Customer experience Energy efficiency and carbon emissions Ethics, values and governance Privacy and data protection Ethics, values and governance Culture and engagement Cyber safety and security Human rights Customer experience Resource use, waste and e-waste Sustainable procurement Attracting talent and employee development Energy efficiency and carbon emissions Conflict minerals Volunteering and giving Digital access and inclusion OUR OPERATIONS: OUR COMMUNITIES: Resource use, waste and e-waste Digital literacy Energy efficiency and carbon emissions Cyber safety Customer experience Customer experience Digital access and inclusion Privacy and data protection Privacy and data protection Digital access and inclusion Ethics, values and governance Resource use, waste and e-waste Energy efficiency and carbon emissions FOR MORE INFORMATION, SEE THESE CHAPTERS OF OUR 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Responsible business Our people Connecting communities Environmental stewardship Responsible business Customer experience Customer experience Environmental stewardship Environmental stewardship Bigger Picture 2015 Sustainability Report 12 Roxanne Security Operations Support CONDUCTING OUR BUSINESS ETHICALLY RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS Bigger Picture 2015 Sustainability Report CONTENTS Click on page links Context 03 Committed to responsible business practice 07 Our performance 04 Managing sustainability risks Metadata and transparency Human rights 07 07 07 05 Digital inclusion 08 Ethics, values Accessibility and inclusion 08 and governance Our commitment to reconciliation 08 Policy framework Ethical behaviour Whistleblowing 05 05 06 Sustainable procurement 09 Compliance training 06 11 Mobile phones, towers and health (EME) About our reporting 13 Bigger Picture 2015 Sustainability Report CONTEXT As a large telecommunications company These expectations increasingly extend Material topics with a presence across Australia and a beyond our own operations and into our global footprint, we recognise that our supply chain and relationships with our Ethics, values and governance 05 long-term ability to prosper is dependent business partners. Sustainable procurement 09 on how we respond to the changing social and environmental expectations Human rights 07 of our employees, customers, investors, Mobile phones, towers regulators and the wider public. and health (EME) 11 Sustainable development in emerging markets 07 Indigenous Australians 08 Bigger Picture 2015 Sustainability Report 03 OUR PERFORMANCE Removed from all Telstra consumer websites to improve accessibility More than 15M Signatory to the Partnering with local Indigenous groups United Nations to conduct grounds Global Compact maintenance at 500 SMS sent to customers more than highlighting responsible mobile phone use 476 Human Rights regional and Policy remote sites people updated in line with disability with global or from a standards disadvantaged background employed through our Supported Workforce program Performance Progress on FY15 commitments Result More info Expand the Supported Workforce program to more Page 10 network sites 57% Achieved Launch and implement our third Reconciliation Page 08 Action Plan Expand the Indigenous Workforce program across Page 10 regional and remote Australia Complete the review of our Human Rights Policy Page 07 Assess all critical suppliers to confirm they are in 43% In progress compliance or working towards compliance with Pages 09-10 Telstra’s Supplier Code of Conduct Update procurement staff training to cover supply Page 10 chain sustainability risks and opportunities Plan and commence a rolling three year ethical Page 05 behaviour risk assessment program 0% Not achieved Achieved In progress Not achieved Bigger Picture 2015 Sustainability Report 04 ETHICS, VALUES AND GOVERNANCE Our Ethical Behaviour Framework provides clear guidance on ethical and responsible decision-making and behaviours. approach Policy framework risk assessments this year. The goal of this three year program is to develop an We are committed to excellence in We regularly review our company policies ethical behaviour risk profile for Telstra. We corporate governance, transparency and to ensure they remain relevant, reflect use the results of these assessments to accountability. This is essential for the who we are as an organisation and comply develop risk mitigation strategies, enhance long term performance and sustainability with the latest laws and regulations. compliance plans and design and deliver of our Company, and to protect and This year we published a significantly relevant training. enhance the interests of our shareholders revised version of the Telstra Group Code and other stakeholders. Around 90 per cent of Telstra executives, of Conduct which reflects our new purpose as well as employees in Corporate We regularly review our governance and values and makes it easier for our Affairs and our Executive Support arrangements, as well as developments employees and contractors to understand Group, completed face-to-face training in market practice, expectations and their obligations. on recognising and addressing ethical regulation. We comply with the third We also continued to review Telstra’s behaviour issues this year. We also edition of the ASX Corporate Governance policy governance framework to make developed a toolkit to enable risk leaders Principles and Recommendations. our company policies easier to access, in each business unit to conduct ethical Our purpose is to create a brilliant understand and comply with, as well as behaviour training. connected future for everyone. Our Telstra applicable to all entities of the Telstra Values, together with our Telstra Group Group, both in Australia and overseas Our approach to Code of Conduct and policy framework, define the standards of behaviour we ethical behaviour expect of each other as we deliver on our To view the new Telstra Group Code issues is guided by of Conduct, visit purpose and achieve our strategy. www.telstra.com/governance insights we gain from Our values guide the way we work as well our membership of as our commitment to good corporate Ethical behaviour governance, responsible business external organisations, practice, our customers, our workforce, Telstra requires all employees to observe such as Transparency high standards of business and personal the communities in which we operate ethics in the conduct of their duties. International Australia, and the environment. They also provide the structure through which we maintain Our Ethical Behaviour Framework provides which we joined this year. compliance with our legal obligations. clear guidance on ethical and responsible Telstra does not make political donations. decision-making and behaviours. It is However, like other major publicly listed based on our key integrity policies: At Telstra, we have five values: companies, we do pay fees to attend Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption events organised by political parties where Show you care Conflicts of Interest and Outside those events allow for discussion on major Better together Activities policy issues with key opinion leaders and Make the complex simple policy makers. Fraud and Criminal Conduct Trust each other to deliver Gifts, Prizes and Hospitality Find your courage Our ethical behaviour risk assessment program is on schedule, with two additional business units undergoing To find out more, visit www.telstra.com/governance Bigger Picture 2015 Sustainability Report 05 Responsible business Ethics, values and governance We encourage our people to take action if they have any concerns about unethical, illegal or improper behaviour. Mandatory refresher training is also completed annually, with each compliance topic covered every two years. The two exceptions are Structural Separation Undertaking, which responds to our regulatory commitments as part of our NBN agreement, and Working at Telstra, which covers key company policies and standards of behaviour for employees. These topics are included in our refresher training annually. We monitor, report and manage training completion rates, and employees who fail to complete mandatory compliance training without a valid reason may face disciplinary action. Tahlia, Executive Assistant As at 30 June 2015, 96.3 per cent of Telstra Group employees and contractors have completed this year’s mandatory refresher Whistleblowing As at 1 July 2014, there were eight whistleblowing alerts in progress within course. We are currently following up with We encourage our people across the those who did not complete the training to the Telstra Group. During FY15, 75 Telstra Group to take action if they determine any disciplinary consequences. whistleblowing alerts were opened and 63 have any concerns about unethical, were closed. As at 30 June 2015, 20 remain illegal or improper behaviour. We have a whistleblowing policy and a confidential, in progress. NEXT STEPS anonymous whistleblowing service that provides appropriate protections for our For whistleblowing contact details, visit people and members of the public to report ‘Acting ethically and responsibly’ at their concerns. Our process is supported by an independent service provider www.telstra.com/governance CONTINUE specialising in handling sensitive reports Compliance training our three year ethical and disclosures. Training is an integral element of our behavior risk assessment Telstra's Group Whistleblowing Committee compliance framework. It ensures our program consists of senior executives and is chaired employees and contractors are aware of by the Company Secretary. This group their legal, regulatory and compliance oversees the whistleblowing process and responsibilities. monitors all reports and disclosures. The When people start working at Telstra they committee also monitors investigations, are required to complete a suite of online recommendations and the implementation compliance training courses, including on of actions. The Audit & Risk Committee of our Telstra Group Code of Conduct. the Board receives reports from the Group Whistleblowing Committee and provides an escalation channel for the Group Whistleblowing Committee where required. Bigger Picture 2015 Sustainability Report 06 COMMITTED TO RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS PRACTICE We are committed to supporting the ten principles of the UN Global Compact wherever we operate. approach Indonesia, China and Singapore. These Human rights include corruption and unethical behaviour We have been a signatory to the United We respect and support human rights as well as third party management, i.e. Nations Global Compact (UN Global as set out in the Universal Declaration of third parties we are associated with Compact) since 2011 and are committed Human Rights and the ten principles of exhibiting behaviour that is inconsistent to supporting its principles – on human the UN Global Compact. Our commitment with Telstra’s values or policies. We rights, labour rights, environment and is defined in our Human Rights Policy. will continue to work with relevant anti-corruption – wherever we operate. stakeholders to identify and manage This year we updated our Human Rights We implement our commitment through sustainability risks in our international Policy to more closely align with external a range of policies, management systems, operations. developments such as the publication of strategies and initiatives that reflect the the United Nations Guiding Principles on diverse range of conditions our business Metadata and transparency Business and Human Rights – the global operates in. As digital technology becomes standard for preventing and addressing increasingly central to our lives, we adverse human rights impacts linked to Throughout this report, this are generating more data than ever business activity – and internal policy icon indicates information on before. Some of our customers and the changes including updates to our Code of our progress in implementing broader community are also increasingly Conduct. We also broadened the policy’s the UN Global Compact interested in who has access to this data. scope from Telstra Corporation to Telstra principles. Consequently, this year we introduced new Group and explicitly addressed issues transparency measures aimed at providing that respond to the UN Global Compact our customers with greater understanding principles, including child labour, forced progress or compulsory labour and freedom of of and access to the data we hold. association and collective bargaining. Managing sustainability risks In a first for the Australian telecommunications industry we now This year we made further progress on offer customers the same access to their Human Rights integrating sustainability issues within metadata as we are required to offer to law Policy Telstra’s risk management processes. enforcement agencies without a warrant. updated in line We included a new ‘social, ethical This new approach is aimed at providing with global and sustainability’ section in our our customers with a clearer picture of standards risk identification tool and adapted the data we provide in response to lawful other sections, including strategy and requests. It builds upon our Transparency governance, products and services, and Report, which outlines our legal obligation We will continue to strengthen our supply chain to reflect sustainability to assist national security and law approach to human rights in the coming principles. We also engaged more enforcement agencies, as well as the types year by assessing any compliance and broadly with the Telstra risk community, of law enforcement requests we receive training requirements that arise from the presenting to ‘risk champions’ in various each year. revised policy. business units on sustainability issues and collaborating to identify their key To find out more, visit To find out more, visit ‘Responsible sustainability risks. www.telstra.com/transparency business’ at As part of Telstra’s risk management www.telstra.com/sustainability process this year we created a risk profile To find out more about accessing your for our international operations. As a key data, visit input we identified sustainability-related www.telstra.com.au/privacy/customerrisks for Telstra in the Philippines, India, access Bigger Picture 2015 Sustainability Report 07 Responsible business Committed to responsible business practice Digital inclusion As of 30 June 2015, we achieved 32 of 39 Our commitment to targets that were achievable in the second We know that being connected through reconciliation year of the Plan, with seven still modern communications technologies Telstra’s commitment to reconciliation in progress. can bring huge social benefits – but takes many forms and reflects the we also know that some people remain Key highlights included the launch of a new breadth and depth of our interactions ‘digitally excluded’, including some of accessibility portal on telstra.com, which with Indigenous Australia. Our Indigenous society’s most vulnerable groups. assists people with disability to identify programs include: the communications products and services At Telstra, we believe that everyone Community investment through the that best suit their needs. The portal – regardless of age, income, ability or Telstra Foundation delivers many options to our customers location – should enjoy the benefits of that make it easier to connect, by letting Infrastructure projects in remote being connected. We want everyone to have them search for features that may assist communities the confidence and skills to participate specific disabilities such as speech, vision, safely in the digital world. cognitive and dexterity impairment. Sponsorship of awards, scholarships, Through our Everyone Connected sports and arts programs We removed CAPTCHA – where users programs, we support our most vulnerable are asked to enter letters or numbers to Employment programs at Telstra and customers. We regularly review our prove they are a real user – from all online with our suppliers. approach to identify groups most in need, Telstra consumer platforms, improving We also support RECOGNISE, the changing technologies and consumer the accessibility of our information for movement to recognise Aboriginal and preferences. customers who are vision impaired. Torres Strait Islander peoples in Australia’s CAPTCHA can exclude blind or vision Constitution. For more on our Everyone Connected impaired users because they, or their programs and progress this year, see the screen readers, are unable to read the We’re in the process of finalising our third Connecting communities chapter of this often skewed text, and because audio Reconciliation Action Plan which will set sustainability report. CAPTCHA is often hard to hear. out an organisation-wide strategy to guide Telstra’s engagement and commitment Accessibility and inclusion to Indigenous Australia for the next three Telstra’s sixth Disability Action Plan Removed years. (2013-2016) articulates our core disability commitments. Through the Plan, we recognise the benefits that modern from all Telstra For more on how we promote Indigenous communications technologies bring to consumer websites to digital excellence, see the Connecting people with disability and the important improve accessibility communities chapter of this sustainability leadership role that Telstra can play. report. The Plan reflects our commitments as a To find out more about our commitment to We also started releasing selected signatory to the UN Global Compact and reconciliation, visit BigPond™ movies with open captioning forms a key part of our customer, people www.telstra.com/rap for people with hearing impairment. and sustainability strategies. This year more than 12,000 learners The key objectives of our sixth successfully completed our mandatory NEXT STEPS disability awareness training for new Disability Action Plan are to: starters. Over 62,000 people, including Improve the accessibility and industry partners that work closely with Telstra, completed the mandatory affordability of Telstra’s products refresher training. ASSESS and services for customers with compliance and training disability requirements arising from I mprove attraction, recruitment, For more on our programs for customers with disability, see the our revised Human Rights engagement and retention of people with disability and their Connecting communities chapter Policy carers at Telstra of this sustainability report.  nhance the social inclusion of E To find out more, visit LAUNCH people with disability through the www.telstra.com/disability and implement our third contribution of time, funds and Reconciliation Action Plan technology expertise to the community  tilise Telstra’s supply chain to U promote opportunities for people with disability. Bigger Picture 2015 Sustainability Report 08 SUSTAINABLE PROCUREMENT We developed a sustainability risk evaluation framework to assess suppliers' compliance with the Telstra Supplier Code of Conduct. approach Potential use of conflict minerals Our large supply base puts us in a position Our supply chain High energy use and carbon emissions to work with our suppliers to positively associated with products and services influence their environmental, social Products  or services being produced This year, the Telstra Group purchased and ethical standards. The Telstra Group $6.8 billion in goods and services from under poor labour conditions, including Code of Conduct provides an overarching about 4,800 suppliers in Australia child labour, forced or compulsory framework to ensure that we operate and overseas. The Telstra Group's key labour and a lack of freedom of ethically and with integrity in purchasing areas of purchasing are electronics and association and collective bargaining goods and services, and in conducting network components (around 43 per Toxic chemicals discharged to air or business with suppliers. cent of our third party expenditure) as water where factories are located in well as services (around 56 per cent). The Telstra Supplier Code of Conduct sets areas with insufficient regulation or no out our minimum standards in the areas Our electronics and network enforcement of minimum standards. of labour and human rights, health and procurement covers mobile devices Following the identification of our high risk safety, environment, ethical dealings and (phones, tablets, wireless internet), suppliers, this year we focused on refining supply chain diversity. The Code applies IT equipment (computers, modems, our processes for identifying, assessing servers) and network components to all suppliers of goods and services to and treating risk. (cables, wireless antenna, exchanges). Telstra worldwide. We developed a sustainability risk These items are provided directly We have a three year sustainable to customers, used to supply our evaluation framework, underpinned by a procurement strategy in place (FY14-16) network and data services, or used sustainability risk questionnaire, to assess that focuses on embedding sustainability by Telstra staff. suppliers’ compliance with the Telstra into processes and procedures, supplier Our services procurement covers Supplier Code of Conduct. engagement, building capability and activities that relate to installing and We sent the questionnaire to all 24 high partnerships, and monitoring compliance. maintaining our network, connecting risk suppliers in two waves. From the first our customers to the network, wave of nine suppliers we have received progress developing software and providing eight responses to date. We expect to customer support. Other services receive the ninth response, as well as 15 In FY15 we continued to work with our are used to run our own operations suppliers to reduce sustainability risk and second wave responses in early FY16. including property, catering and finance. improve performance across our value Subsequent engagement processes are In FY15 we brought freight management underway with four suppliers, and we chain. This work built on the supply chain in-house, a historically outsourced will engage with all remaining suppliers risk assessment we conducted in FY14, activity, valued at around $20 million covering 131 key suppliers, representing in FY16. We are taking a thorough, timespend per annum. There were no other around 66 per cent of Telstra’s total intensive approach to engagement, major changes to our supply chain annual spend. during the reporting period. with the aim of building strong supplier relationships that will enable us to manage Around 40 suppliers were identified as sustainability risks and opportunities for ‘high risk’ based on an assessment of how Our key supply chain risks, reflective of our mutual benefit. they manage sustainability risks, according to publicly available information. Through industry, include: We are also currently scoping a program more detailed analysis this year, we refined of work for auditing suppliers on their Use of rare metals in electronics our list of high risk suppliers to 24. compliance with the Code. Pending the full production and a lack of recovery, roll-out of the program, on-site audits are recycling and reuse mechanisms for conducted on a case by case basis by an these metals independent third party. Bigger Picture 2015 Sustainability Report 09 Responsible business Sustainable procurement We continue to partner with 14 not for profit groups around Australia to create employment opportunities for people with disability or who are disadvantaged. Social impact Telstra continues to partner with 14 not for profit groups around Australia to create In 2010, we committed to increasing the employment opportunities for people with diversity of our supply chain through our disability or who are disadvantaged. These membership of Supply Nation, which groups now perform grounds maintenance connects organisations like Telstra with at around 4,500 of our network sites and Indigenous business suppliers. regularly clean 800 sites. This year we engaged with several At 30 June 2015, 620 people were Supply Nation businesses with a view employed through the program: to establishing long-term commercial 447 people with disability, 29 people arrangements. As a result, we expect to from a disadvantaged background and achieve Supply Nation expenditure of more 144 support workers. than $500,000 next year, with continued improvement thereafter. To find out more about sustainable Richard Allen We significantly procurement, visit Chief Procurement expanded our Indigenous www.telstra.com/suppliers Officer Workforce Program to “We continue to integrate sustainability more than 500 sites NEXT across Queensland, the STEPS into our procurement activities so that we are in the best possible position to manage social and environmental Northern Territory and issues in our diverse and growing Western Australia. supply chain. Building on the relaunch ASSESS of the Telstra Supplier Code of Conduct, Through the program, we partner with local all critical suppliers to we developed and implemented a supplier evaluation framework. Indigenous groups to undertake grounds confirm they are in comThe framework enables us to better maintenance at our sites, employing more pliance or working towards understand and manage risk in our than 60 people. We have a large number of key facilities across regional and remote compliance with Telstra’s supply chain, including sustainability risks. Next year, we’ll continue to work Australia including radio towers, mobiles Supplier Code of Conduct closely with our suppliers to further base stations and exchanges. Grounds reduce risk, identify opportunities and share insights.” maintenance for these facilities is critical HOLD to maintaining our communications infrastructure but often challenging due mandatory sustainability to their remoteness. workshops for all procurement and supply chain staff Bigger Picture 2015 Sustainability Report 10 MOBILE PHONES, TOWERS AND HEALTH (EME) We acknowledge that some people are genuinely concerned about possible health effects from electromagnetic energy (EME), and we are committed to addressing these concerns responsibly. approach All our base stations are assessed for EME Measuring EME at base compliance, and the EME reports and We are proactive, transparent and fact stations and Wi-Fi hotspots compliance certificates are published on based in our communications regarding Telstra complies with the safety the RFNSA web portal. As a member of EME and comply with the standards set standards set by ARPANSA, which the Mobile Carriers Forum, we participate by regulators. are based on the safety guidelines in a joint annual survey program that We rely on the expert advice of national and measures radiofrequency levels in public recommended by the WHO. Each base international health authorities including areas around selected base stations and station is assessed for safety the Australian Radiation Protection and Wi-Fi locations to ensure they comply with compliance and then certified. Nuclear Safety Agency (ARPANSA) and Australian radiation protection standards. We continued our base station audit the World Health Organization (WHO), and Surveys are conducted by independent program this year through which actively contribute to scientific research in assessors who use a methodology independent assessors measured EME EME and health. endorsed by ARPANSA. levels in the public areas surrounding 20 We provide information on EME on our sites. As part of the rollout of Telstra’s Wi-Fi progress network, Telstra Air®, we also included a website at www.telstra.com/eme and also invite customers to go directly to the WHO, number of Wi-Fi locations in the survey Keeping our customers program. For the Wi-Fi public access ARPANSA and ‘EMF Explained’ websites for further information. informed points we surveyed, EME levels were Helping our customers and the between 0.003 per cent and 0.21 per cent We have a dedicated EME help desk community keep abreast of the latest of the allowable limit. The survey results and a team that proactively reviews new information is important to us. consistently confirm that actual EME site proposals, develops community This year, we continued our mobile safety levels from our wireless networks are lower consultation plans and works with the SMS campaign, sending out more than than those modeled using the ARPANSA community to determine acceptable 15 million messages referring customers methodology. sites for new base stations. This proactive community engagement continues to to www.telstra.com/mobiletips, our This year we also established EME result in a very low number of complaints information site for safe and responsible compliance with the ACMA’s Radio relative to our construction of base phone use. Communications (Electromagnetic stations and enhancement of our network. Radiation – Human Exposure) Standard 2003 for all installation types of Telstra A consultation web portal, the Radio Air. The network utilises hotspots on Frequency National Site Archive – top of existing phone booths as well as www.rfnsa.com.au – provides all home gateways in instances where our members of the community with access customers want to make their personal to information on proposals currently home Wi-Fi available to the public. The underway. It also allows the service More than compliance reports are available on the 15M provider to keep the community up-towww.telstra.com/eme website. date with the latest information about base station sites, as well as a way to provide feedback and submissions. We created this website in 2012 on behalf of industry group Mobile Carriers Forum, and it is now run by the industry body, the SMS sent to customers Australian Mobile Telecommunications highlighting responsible Association (AMTA). mobile phone use Bigger Picture 2015 Sustainability Report 11 Responsible business Mobile phones, towers and health (EME) Community consultation for We’ve been working with handset base station locations manufacturers to keep our customers informed of the Specific Absorption Rate NEXT This year we published 67 community consultation pages on the RFNSA (SAR) values for phones sold by Telstra. STEPS The SAR is the rate at which the mobile portal, allowing the community to view phone user absorbs energy from the Telstra’s proposed base station locations handset, and the ACMA’s safety standard DEVELOP throughout Australia. operates by limiting this rate to a a multi-lingual version of A small number of communities, maximum two watts per kilogram averaged the ITU consumer guide to including Broken Hill (New South Wales), over 10 grams. Customers can now view electromagnetic fields Longford (Tasmania) and Prospect SAR values as part of mobile phone (South Australia), expressed concern specifications on our website. about EME through the consultation CONTINUE process. We responded to these Mobile app on our mobile safety SMS concerns through extended community electromagnetic fields campaign to keep our consultation, individual meetings and proactive community engagement. We developed a mobile application that customers informed of the provides consumers with a guide to latest information on EME In FY15, we completed 2,330 mobile electromagnetic fields. infrastructure consultation projects. 77 were new development applications Launched in December 2014 by the International Telecommunications Union DEVELOP (of which 72 were approved) and 2,252 (ITU), a United Nations specialised agency videos and fact sheets on were proposals where we consulted in for information and communication ‘how to read an EME Guide’ accordance with the Communications Alliance Mobile Phone Base Station technologies, it provides information and and ‘working safely around education resources on electromagnetic antennas’ as part of our Deployment Industry Code. The Australian fields that are suitable for all audiences Communications and Media Authority in an easily accessible smart phone EME awareness program (ACMA) confirmed that they received no application. Following positive feedback on complaints regarding Telstra proposals in the first version of the guide, we are now FY15, compared to two in FY14. developing a multi-lingual version. Mobile phone EME compliance Every mobile handset we sold in To find out more about EME, visit FY15 was certified by the manufacturer www.telstra.com/eme as compliant with the mandatory ACMA Radio Communications (Electromagnetic Radiation – Human Exposure) Standard 2014. The standard is designed to offer protection against identified health effects of EME and contains a large built-in safety margin. Bigger Picture 2015 Sustainability Report 12 ABOUT OUR REPORTING Our business About our sustainability Assurance Telstra is Australia’s leading reporting Independent assurance supports our telecommunications and information Our sustainability reporting comprises commitment to transparency and services company, offering a full range the Bigger Picture 2015 Sustainability accountability. To provide confidence of communications services and Report, our sustainability website and a for our stakeholders in our reporting competing in all telecommunications concise summary of our approach and Ernst & Young provides limited markets. We employ over 36,000 people performance in our 2015 Annual Report. assurance, in accordance with the ISAE directly, facilitate access to more than Through our reporting we aim to provide 3000 standard, over specified data and 2,000 network points of presence across information on sustainability issues related performance disclosures in our the globe and have one of Australia’s relevant to our business and of importance 2015 Annual Report and Bigger Picture largest shareholder bases, with around to our stakeholders, as defined through our 2015 Sustainability Report, as well as 1.4 million shareholders. annual materiality process. The material an assessment of Telstra's application We have a diverse range of customers, topics addressed within each chapter of of the principle of materiality, as outlined including consumer, small business, this report are outlined in Sustainability in the Global Reporting Initiative large enterprise and government at Telstra, and on the context page of each G4 guidelines. organisations, and we strive to put them corresponding chapter. at the centre of everything we do. In We develop our sustainability reporting You can access Ernst & Young’s Australia, our services are offered through in accordance with industry and assurance statement at 371 Telstra-branded retail stores, 84 sustainability standards including www.telstra.com/sustainability/report/about Telstra Business Centres, 137 Telstra the United Nations Global Compact business and enterprise partners and are Communication on Progress and the Feedback distributed by over 18,700 retail points of Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4 Core We welcome your feedback on our presence managed by our partners. Sustainability Reporting Guidelines, and sustainability reporting, approach and In Australia we provide approximately with reference to AccountAbility’s AA1000 performance. Please email Tim O’Leary, 16.7 million retail mobile services, 6.0 Principles Standard 2008. Chief Sustainability Officer at million retail fixed voice services and 3.1 sustainability@team.telstra.com million retail fixed data services. Telstra’s For more information visit international businesses operate in 20 Stay in touch www.telstra.com/sustainability/report countries around the world and include twitter.com/telstra Telstra’s global networks and managed services business, as well as Telstra’s Scope facebook.com/telstra China-based search and advertising Our sustainability reporting covers the Sustainability Matters business, Autohome Inc. financial year 1 July 2014 to 30 June 2015 www.telstra.com/sustainability/subscribe (FY15) for Telstra Corporation Limited. All We understand our customers want controlled entities are excluded unless technology and content solutions otherwise stated. that are simple and easy to use – that’s why we have built networks As our international operations expand like Australia’s largest fully integrated we are committed to developing a internet protocol (IP) network and global framework for sustainability data Australia’s largest mobile network. collection and reporting. Starting with our most material operations overseas we will United Nations Global Compact continue to expand on the scope of our reporting over time. You will find the icon below throughout the Bigger Picture 2015 Sustainability Wherever possible and relevant under the Report. It indicates where we are G4 guidelines we have extended the scope providing information on our progress in of this report to include our operations implementing the ten principles of the across the Telstra Group, as well as a United Nations Global Compact. discussion of any broader impacts across our value chain. Information regarding the controlled entities in the Telstra Group can be found in Note 25 to the Financial Statements in the 2015 Annual Report. Bigger Picture 2015 Sustainability Report 13 CREATING A GREAT PLACE TO WORK OUR PEOPLE Bigger Picture 2015 Sustainability Report CONTENTS Click on page links Context 03 Health and safety 13 04 Prevention 13 Our Early intervention and claims performance management 13 Health and wellness 14 Asbestos and safety 14 05 Discrimination and bullying 14 Culture and HSE performance 15 engagement 16 Employment Our purpose and values 05 Creating a customer-centric culture 05 and workplace Employee Value Proposition 05 relations Building capabilities to sustain global growth 06 Workforce profile 16 Performance at Telstra 06 Engaging with unions 16 Learning and development 07 Enterprise agreements 16 Employee engagement 08 Award modernisation 16 Volunteering and giving 08 17 Telstra Alumni program 08 Workforce 09 data Diversity and inclusion Gender equality Diversity targets and performance 09 10 About our reporting 19 Flexible working 11 Employment pathways 11 Ageing population 12 LGBTI 12 CONTEXT Technology is evolving rapidly, customer We’re providing targeted learning Material topics expectations are changing and we’re and development opportunities and facing a more competitive global market. continuously improving our approach to Diversity and inclusion 09 Adapting our operational structures health and safety. We’re also investing Culture and engagement 05 and ways of working to respond to this in programs to attract and retain change is critical. employees with the skills and passion to Attracting talent and help transform Telstra into a world class employee development 05-07 To ensure we thrive in these conditions, we’re taking a values-led approach technology company. Health, safety and wellbeing 13 to driving employee engagement, Workplace relations 16 collaboration, diversity and inclusion. Volunteering and giving 08 Bigger Picture 2015 Sustainability Report 03 OUR PERFORMANCE $1.5M to over 300 charities via matched payroll giving Lost Time Injury Invested Frequency Rate Undertook $1,243 7,225 of 0.98 DOWN 12.5% per employee on learning and development volunteering days in the community Named as an EMPLOYER OF CHOICE for Gender Equality by the WGEA Performance Progress on FY15 commitments Result More info Increase employee engagement to 84%1 Page 08 20% Achieved Increase number of women in executive management Page 09 to 30% Implement a suite of programs to enhance age and Page 12 generational diversity across Telstra 40% In progress Increase our payroll giving participation rate to 6% Page 08 Establish a baseline for introducing a more comprehensive standard for measuring our workplace Page 15 injury rate 40% Not achieved Achieved In progress Not achieved 1 Result yet to be obtained. Our next employee engagement survey is expected to be conducted in the first half of FY16. Bigger Picture 2015 Sustainability Report 04 CULTURE AND ENGAGEMENT Our focus on advocacy is the largest cultural change program ever undertaken at Telstra. approach leaders align their decision-making to our Delivered training designed to purpose and values. Through the six month strengthen advocacy skills and behaviours We’re working to create a culture that is program participants will focus on ‘how’ for almost 1,300 of our Global Contact more customer focused, collaborative and they do things in a business environment Centre employees innovative than ever before. Getting this underpinned by accelerating change right is vital to our ability to deliver on our Provided training for around 500 Telstra and complexity, as well as increasing purpose and business strategy. Business sales team members to help global interdependence. The program We know that when our people are them forge more proactive partnerships will also encourage leaders to develop a engaged, and given opportunities to with our customers. more personal leadership approach, to learn and grow in their roles, they enjoy help increase collaboration and build a greater job satisfaction and are more high-performance culture. 139 leaders For more information on how we’re likely to deliver an outstanding customer participated in this program in FY15. working to improve customer advocacy, experience. see the Customer experience chapter of this sustainability report. progress Employees recognised their peers for Employee Value Proposition Our purpose and values demonstrating Telstra’s As the market for talent intensifies it will Having introduced a new purpose – to create a brilliant connected future for values more than 59,000 become increasingly difficult to attract and retain the best employees to Telstra. everyone – and new company values in times this year via FY14, this year we focused on embedding To ensure we have the workforce capability our ZING reward and we require to deliver on our business them across our global operations. recognition program. strategy, this year we developed an employment brand and marketing strategy Our values are: Creating a customer-centric aimed at promoting our Employee Value Proposition (EVP). Show you care culture Better together We’re working to create a world class We also undertook international technology company that puts the research to better understand our Trust each other to deliver employee experience, the external talent customer at the centre of everything we Make the complex simple do. To achieve this aim, we’re equipping marketplace and the employment drivers our people with the tools and training within our target markets overseas. The Find your courage results of this study will help us to ensure required to deliver increasingly responsive, personalised customer service. our EVP resonates with top talent around the world. This year, to help embed a customerTo help bring our purpose and values to life, centric culture across the Group, we: we developed a company-wide Values to Standards program that all Telstra leaders Held regular ‘T-time’ meetings across will undertake over the next 12 months. our operations, providing teams with the The program will help leaders embed the opportunity to come together to reflect and values within their teams’ culture and act on customer feedback and Telstra’s apply them to their day-to-day work. advocacy priorities We also launched an intensive Connected Leadership program which, over the next three years, will help 1,400 of our senior Bigger Picture 2015 Sustainability Report 05 Our people Culture and engagement Building capabilities to sustain Performance at Telstra global growth Each year our employees set performance As we expand our operations globally, objectives with their managers that, along it’s important that our company with our customer advocacy and financial culture, values and behaviours are results, form a key component of our short consistent and that we are able to term incentive plan. manage change and growing complexity Employees and their managers meet across the Telstra Group. regularly throughout the year to discuss This year we embedded our key people their progress and identify development practices, such as employee engagement opportunities that will help them excel in and talent management, into our approach their roles. to mergers and acquisitions (M&A). We In FY15 we introduced a new approach have also built integration and change to performance, to support our people management capability within our M&A to meet their performance objectives team, to ensure each new business and long-term career goals. Our new receives the support it needs to function performance system, My Future, is well within the Telstra Group. transparent, simpler to use and helps our Kieran O’Meara To help our team compete in a global people access learning opportunities that General Manager, Customer and business landscape, we worked with align to their role and aspirations. Channel Capability 1,000 of our Global Enterprise & Services This year we acknowledged the (GES) employees to define their career performance of our top talent through our “It was an enormous privilege to be selected paths, strengthen their core capabilities Extreme and Excelerate programs. 117 of to go to Extreme Tokyo with my colleagues and gain internationally recognised from across the business. From the first our top performers attended Extreme in moment, it was very apparent that this qualifications this year. Tokyo, Japan and 300 attended Excelerate trip was something special. Each of us We also created a Strategic Workforce on the Gold Coast, Queensland, where they recognised the effort invested in saying Management capability to build, over time, had a chance to celebrate their success ‘thank you’ for the contribution we had made and get to know other high achievers from throughout the year. Meeting colleagues an enterprise wide understanding of the from across the globe, relaxing and having workforce implications of our long term across Telstra, while spending valuable fun with them and sharing stories of what growth strategy. time with our senior leaders. we had worked on through the year really opened my eyes to the breadth of work we This year we worked with NBN Delivery do here at Telstra. Most importantly, it was (Definitive Agreement and Commercial a great way to say a big thank you to our Work) and Telstra Health to develop a families and partners who support us in holistic view of the skills, capabilities and what we do. Extreme made them feel like experience we require to deliver on our part of the Telstra family too.” ambitions in these areas. Next year we will continue to focus on key growth or transformation segments, including GES, NBN Products and Technology. Bigger Picture 2015 Sustainability Report 06 Our people Culture and engagement In FY15 we invested $1,243 per employee in learning and development. Learning and development In addition to launching our Connected Top of the technical class Each participant identified, proposed Leadership program, we continued to then implemented a business initiative, Thirty eight team members from invest in targeted Core Capabilities demonstrating commercial acumen, Networks, IT Solutions and Telstra training to enable our people to strong change leadership and innovation. Service Operations have graduated develop key business skills, such as On completion of their projects with new nationally recognised driving change, strategic thinking and participants quantified the tangible qualifications this year, as part of our planning, commercial acumen, business benefits realised for both Telstra and our Technical Leader Program. partnering and coaching. More than 3,000 customers. The group graduated with employees completed Core Capabilities Group Managing Director, Networks either a Graduate Diploma in training in FY15. Mike Wright said the Technical Leader Telecommunications and Strategic We also redesigned our mandatory Program provides a unique opportunity Management, a Graduate Diploma in Business Essentials training program, for highly skilled technical staff in Telstra Telecommunications, Technology Domain through which we ensure our people Operations to develop their careers. Leader, or a Graduate Certificate in are aware of their legal, regulatory and Telecommunications. “As Telstra positions itself as a worldcompliance responsibilities. Approximately leading technology company, we are The Technical Leader Program is an 62,000 people, including industry partners becoming more reliant on people accredited career development program that work closely with Telstra, completed with world-class technical skills and designed specifically for our people this training in FY15. expertise,” Mike said. in Telstra Operations who perform This year we refined our induction technical job functions. Telstra is the first “These programs are key to our ability experience to deliver a more consistent organisation in Australia to award these to continually attract and retain the program across the Telstra Group. All new qualifications. best technical talent and provide them employees are introduced to our culture with long-term career development Throughout the year, graduates applied and strategic priorities through this opportunities.” Telstra’s leadership and professional program, with a particular focus on driving capabilities as well as the latest industry customer advocacy. New starters are also competency standards in their day-toencouraged to complete online courses day work. including an introduction to environmental sustainability, as well as our cultural appreciation program, Connecting our Cultures, which explains our Reconciliation Action Plan, provides advice to aid intercultural understanding and shares the stories of some of our Indigenous employees. In FY15 we invested over $44.9 million (not including labour costs) in learning and development across the Telstra Group, which equates to $1,243 per employee (full time equivalent, excluding contractors). This included a $6.7 million investment in leadership development.1 1 Due to a calculation error our learning and development spend per employee was incorrectly stated in FY14 as $1,078, instead of $1,503. Bigger Picture 2015 Sustainability Report 07 Our people Culture and engagement Telstra Alumni program Since its inception in 2013, the Telstra Alumni program has grown to 19,578 members. The Alumni program allows former employees to reconnect with each other and access special benefits. It is also a useful vehicle for Telstra to gain feedback from those familiar with the company. This year we focused on increasing member engagement by holding a range of activities including networking events, reunions, training sessions, industry updates and local events focused on building advocacy in regional areas. We also continued to provide a range of special offers and discounts, including our Telstra Thanks® Alumni program. Brett, Luke and Dave volunteering with Habitat for Humanity To find out more, visit www.telstra.com/alumni Employee engagement Employees volunteered their time to a variety of causes including helping Having completed an employee communities recover from bushfires engagement survey in May 2014, we did not undertake a whole of company survey with Habitat for Humanity, preparing and serving food to people in need with the NEXT in FY15, opting instead to focus on our known areas for development. Our next Salvation Army and Sacred Heart Mission, STEPS and planting trees, mulching and weeding employee engagement survey is expected with Landcare Australia. to be conducted in the first half of FY16. Our Telstra International employees INCREASE In FY14, we set a target to increase our employee engagement score by two contributed an additional 765 volunteering employee engagement percentage points to 84 per cent in days through events held in Hong Kong, the to 84 per cent UK, the US and our other Asian markets FY15. As we did not complete a whole of company survey, we are unable to report this year, more than doubling their FY14 EXPAND contribution. The team’s efforts were on our progress against this target. We are recognised for the third year in a row when on our Core Capabilities confident, however, that the initiatives put and leadership Telstra International was awarded the in place to address the results of our FY14 accolade of Caring Company of the Year development training survey will ensure we are well placed to 2014/15 by The Hong Kong Council of programs achieve this target in FY16. Social Service. Volunteering and giving Our payroll giving program is available to UNDERTAKE all Telstra employees, with the flexibility 10,000 volunteering days We encourage our people to get involved to donate to any registered charity in in our core sustainability programs by in the community Australia. We provide dollar-for-dollar supporting them to give One Day. One matching of employee donations (up to Cause. One Dollar. For Everyone. $1,000 per employee per year or $750,000 Our ‘ONE’ employee call to action overall). 5.8 per cent of our employees encourages our people to take up their made donations via payroll giving this year, One Day of volunteering leave, get behind up from 5.3 per cent the previous year. One Cause that matters to them, and have Including Telstra’s matched contribution, every One Dollar they donate through $1.5 million was donated to over 300 payroll giving matched by Telstra. charities this year. This year, our employees contributed 7,225 Our reward and recognition program, Pay volunteer days, up more than 40 per cent it Forward, continued this year with two from 5,122 days in FY14, but short of our groups taking part in unique volunteering target of 10,000 days. This includes around experiences in Cambodia and Gallipoli 500 days of Telstra-coordinated out-of(Turkey). Pay it Forward recognises our hours volunteering and represents a total peoples’ appetite for getting involved in the value of $1.6 million. community and is designed to reward our advocacy champions. Bigger Picture 2015 Sustainability Report 08 DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION This year we launched a Family and Domestic Violence Support Policy to support employees in Australia who are experiencing violence. Promoting diversity and inclusion across other than executive management, which Representation of women Telstra helps us improve our business decreased slightly from 25.9 per cent at as at 30 June 2015 results, enhance our reputation and 30 June 2014 to 25.6 per cent at 30 June attract, engage and retain talented 2015. Role Number Percentage people. In addition, having a diverse Because of a continued upward trend in Board(i) 3 30.0% range of employees better enables us female representation among promotions to understand our customers’ individual and the number of women joining Telstra Executive needs and provide them with excellent 72 25.6% exceeding the number leaving, we are management*(ii) customer service. closer to our female representation target At Telstra, our focus on diversity and than ever before. We will continue our CEO 0 0% inclusion relates to differences in gender, efforts to attract and retain more women CEO-1 (Band A) 3 21.4% age, ethnicity, race, cultural background, in FY16 in order to meet our targets by ability, religion and sexual orientation. It focusing on gender-balanced recruitment, CEO-2 (Band B) 18 24.0% also includes differences in background inclusive leadership and enabling more and life experience, communication styles, flexible ways of working. CEO-3 (Band C) 51 26.6% interpersonal skills, education, functional Our achievements in FY15 include: Middle expertise and problem-solving skills. 2,856 27.8% Being named an Employer of Choice management*(iii) Our approach to diversity and inclusion for Gender Equality by the Federal is led by our Diversity Council, which is Operational*(iv) 7,237 32.5% Government’s Workplace Gender Equality chaired by the CEO and comprises the Agency (WGEA) and were recognised Telstra Total* 10,165 31.0% entire CEO Leadership Team. Through this by the agency for our leading practice forum and our leadership framework we in promoting pay equity Telstra Group reinforce our expectations of all leaders to 11,757 31.3% Total** lead inclusively and to value difference. Launching Brilliant Connected Women, a network designed to better connect * Includes full time, part time and casual staff in Telstra Our diversity policies provide the women across Telstra and engage our Corporation Limited and its wholly owned subsidiaries, excluding framework for the Board to set our contractors and agency staff. It does not include staff in any leaders in more actively recruiting, other controlled entities within the Telstra Group. measurable objectives for diversity and to retaining and developing female talent ** Includes full time, part time and casual staff in controlled annually assess our progress in achieving entities within the Telstra Group, excluding contractors and agency staff. them. The table below summarises the Becoming a signatory to the UN Information regarding the controlled entities in the Telstra Group measurable diversity objectives set by Women’s Empowerment Principles, which can be found in Note 25 to the Financial Statements in our 2015 Annual Report. the Board and our progress, as at 30 June encourage corporate leadership in gender Notes: i – Number and percentage relates to non-executive equality and empowerment of women in Directors. ii – Executive management comprises persons holding 2015. roles within Telstra designated as Band A, B or C, or equivalent. the workplace, marketplace and iii – Middle management comprises persons holding roles within Telstra designated as Band 1 or 2, or equivalent. iv – Operational Gender equality community comprises persons holding roles within Telstra designated as Bands 3 or 4, or equivalent. Female representation among nonAs a White Ribbon accredited executive Directors on our Board was 30 workplace, taking active steps to support Telstra is required by the Workplace per cent at 30 June 2015. our employees who are impacted by family Gender Equality Act 2012 to report our and domestic violence. This year we Overall female representation across workforce gender profile as at 31 March launched a Family and Domestic Violence Telstra Corporation Limited and its wholly each year. Our 2015 report was lodged Support Policy, which provides employees owned subsidiaries increased this year to with the WGEA on 28 May, 2015 and is in Australia who are experiencing violence 31 per cent. This increase was the result available on our website at with up to 10 days paid leave each year, in of an upwards shift across all segments www.telstra.com/diversity. addition to all other leave entitlements. Bigger Picture 2015 Sustainability Report 09 Our people Diversity and inclusion Jo, GM HR Shared Services Operations Diversity targets and performance Objective and progress/result in respect of FY15 Objective in respect of FY16 Measure (or as otherwise stated) (or as otherwise stated) Women on the Board Objective There will be at least 3 women on the Board, representing a There will be at least 3 women on the female gender representation among non-executive Directors of at least Board, representing a female gender 30% representation among non-executive Directors of at least 30%, with an Progress As at 30 June 2015, there were 3 female Directors on the Board aspiration to achieve 40% female (including the Chairman of the Board and Chairman of the Audit & Risk representation among non-executive Committee), representing a female gender representation among nonDirectors by 2020 executive Directors of 30% Female representation Objective 45% female representation in graduate intake selected in 2015, FY20 45% female representation in graduate intake with an aspiration of 50% female representation by 2020 in graduate intake selected in 2016, with an aspiration to achieve 50% Result 44% female representation in graduate intake selected in 2015 female representation by 2020 Promotion rates for women Objective To exceed their representation at Business Unit level Promotion rates for women to exceed their representation at Result – Achieved in Telstra overall and in 4 out of 10 business units Business Unit level Engagement of identified Objective Equal to or greater than Telstra-wide engagement score, Engagement of identified groups groups(i) with any negative differences not statistically significant equal to or greater than Telstrawide engagement score, with any Result As we did not complete a whole of company employee engagement negative differences not statistically survey this financial year, opting instead to address known areas for significant improvement, we are unable to report on our progress against this target. Our next whole of company employee engagement survey is expected to be conducted in the first half of FY16, with results reported in the Bigger Picture 2016 Sustainability Report and Telstra Annual Report Female representation(ii) Objective FY15 32% (Telstra Total) and 30% (Executive Management) FY16 32% (Telstra Total) and 30% at 30 June (Executive Management) Result – 31% (Telstra Total) and 25.6% (Executive Management) FY20 35% (Telstra Total) and 40% (Executive Management) i Identified groups are female employees, Indigenous employees, culturally and linguistically diverse employees, employees with a disability and, gay, lesbian, bisexual, transgender and intersex (GLBTI) employees. ii Includes full time, part time and casual staff in Telstra Corporation Limited and its wholly owned subsidiaries, excluding contractors and agency staff. It does not include staff in any other controlled entities within the Telstra Group. Bigger Picture 2015 Sustainability Report 10 Our people Diversity and inclusion Flexible working We know that our people have different priorities, passions and interests that must be balanced with work, so this year we continued to enable All Roles Flex, our Group wide approach where flexibility is now considered the starting point for all roles. Equilibrium Man Challenge To promote flexibility at Telstra for everyone, in April this year two Telstra employees embarked on the Equilibrium Man Challenge. The Challenge follows a group of men who want to achieve greater equilibrium in their lives by changing how they work. Their experience is being followed by an award-winning documentary director and released online as a series of short We also offered full-time 12 month documentaries. traineeships to Indigenous candidates to Telstra is a major sponsor of the help them gain a Certificate 3 qualification. project, which is endorsed by the This year, 11 Indigenous school-based and Australian Government’s Workplace fulltime trainees hosted through these Gender Equality Agency (WGEA) and programs completed their traineeships. Diversity Council Australia. A catalyst for the challenge were Diversity Council Launched the Telstra Indigenous Australia statistics that showed men Experience, a 10 day work experience are less likely than women to request program in our retail stores to help flexibility, and more likely to have their Indigenous job candidates to build request declined. confidence and business understanding ahead of interviewing for in-store roles. Employment pathways Over the past three years we’ve hired more We are committed to providing than 100 new employees who identify as employment pathways for candidates living with a disability. To attract, engage with diverse backgrounds and needs. and retain people with disability to Telstra, Nicola Glover This year we increased our intake of this year we: Senior Consultant (Business Indigenous trainees to 11, thanks to a Introduced a new Personalisation Guide Improvement), Strategic Change greater level of business sponsorship of for people leaders and a Personalisation the program. “With the demands of being an ‘almost’ Passport for team members with disability single parent of two teenage boys and a All of the 18 Indigenous employees who to encourage employees to discuss their commute of 1 hr 15 mins, flexible working joined us during FY15 remain employed as workplace needs with their managers has really helped me manage my life balance. My husband works in Vietnam four at 30 June 2015. This year, to attract and Became the largest corporate provider weeks out of six and my boys have busy lives retain Indigenous employees at Telstra, we: of the Australian Network on Disability with multiple extra-curricular activities. My Began a new partnership with Career Stepping Into internship program, which flexible working model gets me to the office provides a paid internship program to early and allows me to leave early to get a Trackers, offering internships to four university students with a disability. We seat on the train (where I also manage to do Indigenous university students as a some constructive work). This way I can get pathway to ongoing employment hosted 40 students in FY15, and four have home in time to cook dinner, pick up the boys secured ongoing roles at Telstra. from sport and help with their homework. Offered part-time school-based Flexible working has allowed me to have a traineeships to Indigenous high school great job and a great family life.” students as a pathway to becoming full For more information on our Indigenous time trainees, cadets or employees once programs and Disability Action Plan, see they finish school. At the end of their the Responsible business chapter of this two-year traineeship the students will sustainability report. receive a Certificate 2 in Business Administration, Retail or IT. Bigger Picture 2015 Sustainability Report 11 Our people Diversity and inclusion Ageing population LGBTI In Australia, people aged 45 and over Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender and NEXT STEPS make up the fastest-growing employee Intersex (LGBTI) inclusion is important category. It’s therefore important for us to us. We want our people to bring to consider how we can best promote age their whole selves to work and and generational diversity, and offer the contribute fully to delivering for our flexibility required to attract and retain customers and each other. ROLL OUT talent of all ages. To show our support for LGBTI inclusion, the next stage of our All This year, as part of the Department of this year we became the technology Roles Flex program, Employment Corporate Champion program partner for the Sydney Gay and Lesbian focusing on global mobility we undertook an analysis of our workforce Mardi Gras and the Midsumma Festival, and location flexibility data to determine key focus areas. As Australia’s premier LGBTI arts and culture a result, we ran a pilot of the SageCo Envisage program with 50 employees from festival. We also championed Wear it Purple Day across our retail stores and EXPAND our Networks team. Envisage is a program offices to raise awareness and funds for opportunities for that supports mature-age workers to make LGBTI inclusion in the community. Indigenous employment positive plans for their future work, life and In October 2014 we sponsored the within our Retail division, eventual transition to retirement. In FY16 Bingham Cup Tournament, a global event growing traineeship and we will continue to invest in programs to engage our people across all generations, which promotes rugby union as a noninternship opportunities discriminatory sport. We also celebrated across all business units ensuring age-balanced recruitment and the sixth anniversary of our Spectrum enabling new pathways to employment for network for LGBTI employees with older workers. events around Australia and in Manila, DEVELOP Philippines. a return to work program In May 2015, we were recognised as a Top for older people who have 20 employer for LGBTI inclusion in the been out of the workforce, Australian Workplace Equality Index, and a to help promote age and Bronze Tier employer in the inaugural Hong generational diversity at Kong Index for LGBT Inclusion. Telstra Bigger Picture 2015 Sustainability Report 12 HEALTH AND SAFETY The health and safety of our people is paramount to us and we are committed to developing a values based health and safety culture. approach Commission (SRCC) approved selfEarly intervention and claims insurer licensee and we have maintained The health and safety of our people is management a Comcare Tier 3 status (the highest paramount to us and we are committed In July 2014 we implemented an in-house possible) for all three areas – prevention, to developing a values based health injury management model for delivering claims management and rehabilitation. and safety culture. Through our health, workplace rehabilitation, to support This year the SRCC granted Telstra a four safety and environment (HSE) strategy injured employees through their recovery year self-insurance licence until July we continue to embed a strong risk and return to work. 2018. Telstra is certified to AS/NZS 4801 management culture across our global Standard for Occupational Health and We also implemented a Work Transition operations. Safety Management Systems and was Program to help employees move back In FY15 we strengthened our approach to accredited for a further three years in into their roles, and assist those who HSE management by adopting a ‘Three December 2014. Telstra also holds Federal are unable to return to their pre-injury Lines of Defence’ model to health and Safety Commission accreditation. activities to find an alternative role within safety governance. It provides three tiers of or outside Telstra. We continue to maintain open HSE management and oversight: communication with Comcare and provide The effectiveness of these programs and First  Line – operational management them with direct access to Telstra’s our commitment to early intervention and and review senior management to ensure prompt effective claims management are reflected Second Line – Corporate HSE team management of any issues that may arise. in our performance. In FY15:  review of first line systems, processes 89 per cent of injured workers were able and implementation progress to return to pre-injury duties, up from Third Line – Group Internal Audit review 60 per cent in FY14  Prevention of first and second line processes and The average time to close a return to governance. At the core of how we operate is a work case reduced to 14 weeks, proactive, risk based approach to health Our HSE function provides first line compared to 62 weeks for the same and safety management, aimed at advisory services to the business, as period in FY14. preventing incidents from occurring. well as second line governance of the We continuously monitor and review our company’s HSE activities. We expanded We continue to strengthen our safety workplace claims management system capability and capacity in the team this culture by focusing on health and safety to ensure optimum performance and year following a functional review, which leadership, risk management and control effective outcomes across the portfolio. highlighted the need for greater resource effectiveness. We are working to build a The process is accessible to all employees allocation in the first line of defence and strong reporting culture across the Group through the Telstra intranet. across a broader geographic spread, as and as a result have seen a significant well as increased expertise in HSE risk uplift in near miss reporting from both management. employees and contractors this year. LostLost Time Injury Time Injury Our approach to health and safety is We enhanced our HSE risk control Frequency Frequency RateRate governed by the Telstra Board, and framework by undertaking several of 0.98 of 0.98 DOWN 12.5% workshops to assess our risk controls and our performance is regularly reported to the Board, Board Committees and their effectiveness. We brought together DOWN 12.5% Management Risk Committee. a cross-section of our workforce and subject matter experts to consider ways Telstra is a Commonwealth Safety, to minimise or eliminate key risks, and Rehabilitation and Compensation prioritise resulting programs of work. Bigger Picture 2015 Sustainability Report 13 Our people Health and safety Alisha, Contact Centre Capability Lead Health and wellness Asbestos and safety Discrimination and bullying Physical health and wellbeing is a key Our network was built over a hundred In line with our values and the Telstra driver for minimising workplace safety year period, and some of our concrete Group Discrimination and Bullying risks. Manual handling, repetitive pits and pipes were built with asbestos Policy, we do not tolerate unlawful movement, static posture and workcontaining material (ACM) at a time discrimination, bullying, harassment related stress are major drivers of injuries before the health issues associated or victimisation of any kind. and illnesses at Telstra. with asbestos were known. Our complaint procedure is aimed To prevent incidents from occurring, this Telstra continues to take our duties at providing our employees with a year we implemented several health and regarding the safety of all workers and confidential, fair and supportive process wellness programs, including: members of the public very seriously. We for managing any issues that arise. Resilience and Work Pressure ‘Thrive’ focus on achieving high standards across Throughout FY15, there were 203 reported We are currently trialling the Thrive our operations, paying particular attention cases of discrimination and bullying program across our Australian business to the management of ACM. within Telstra Corporation. As at 30 June units. Thrive is designed to assist people 2015, 17 cases were open with ongoing leaders in identifying work pressure and We require employees investigations, and 220 cases were closed, stress risks within their teams and provide and contractors including two that were reported in support in building resilience and managing these pressures. More than 200 to follow strict FY13 and 32 that were reported in FY14. Outcomes for the closed cases were: employees are part of the pilot program. procedures for 31 (14 per cent of closed cases) were Preventing Musculoskeletal Disorders the handling and substantiated and action was taken We are performing a comprehensive review removal of ACM against the respondent (this included of our key ergonomic risks and the coaching, verbal warnings, written effectiveness of current controls. in our network. warnings, final written warnings or Managing Workplace Aggression dismissals) After a number of incidents in 2013 of We encourage our people to report all non-compliant asbestos management 148 (67 per cent of closed cases) were incidents of aggression and provide and removal, we significantly improved found not to be substantiated. In some of support to anyone affected. We are our performance and systems for the these cases other appropriate action such developing a targeted program to enhance management of ACM. We tested our as training or mediation was taken our peoples’ skills to anticipate, identify, response through an independent audit 41 (19 per cent of closed cases) were manage and react to incidents, with the in July 2014 and, as a result, released either withdrawn by the complainant or the primary goal of keeping themselves and updated ACM procedures and a revised investigation could not be completed (for others safe. management guide for our contractors in example, where parties involved resigned Reducing Sedentary Risk March 2015. and further investigation required their We have implemented our first Future We take our response to asbestos related participation). Ways of Working (FWOW) offices which claims seriously. We have processes employ ergonomic principles to generate for managing compensation claims of a more collaborative, active work day. any type to ensure that such claims are Results have shown a reduction in selfhandled quickly and sensitively. Telstra reported neck, shoulder and back pain considers asbestos claims on a case-bywhen using the FWOW office environment. case basis and any compensation payable is met from general operating costs. Bigger Picture 2015 Sustainability Report 14 Our people Health and safety In FY15 we reduced our Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate by 12.5 per cent to 0.98. HSE performance Key workplace health and safety indicators1 In FY15 we matured our HSE performance measures, invested % change further in our systems and increased Key performance indicator FY15 FY14 FY13 FY14our investigation and analytical FY15 capability as part of our commitment LTI2 to being a learning organisation. 48 55 66 -13 Number of occurrences of lost time We have reviewed the findings of our investigations, audits and risk analysis Serious injury rate3 workshops to more effectively target Rate of claims resulting in greater than one 1.9 2.6 3.4 -27 systemic issues and refine our program for week lost time addressing our HSE risks. Lost days 791 1,105 1,044 -28 In FY15 we established baseline figures Total days lost for a number of more mature HSE performance measures, including: Days lost per LTI 16.5 20.1 15.6 -18 Average days lost High potential HSE incidents: a more comprehensive measure of HSE risk New workers’ compensation claims 434 430 457 0 New Claims Frequency Rate: a more Number comprehensive measure of workplace Open workers’ compensation claims injuries than a lost time injury frequency 1,533 1,438 1,612 +1 Number rate, as it includes all injuries requiring more than first aid treatment Fatalities 0 0 0 0 Same day reporting: enabling us to Number respond quickly to incidents, conduct more detailed investigations and provide better Notes: 1 – Includes Telstra Corporation Ltd employees only, not including subsidiaries or contractors. 2 – An LTI is the reported number of occurrences of lost time arising from injury or disease that have resulted in an accepted workers’ compensation claim. care for our people. 3 – For 12 month period 1 June 2014 to 31 May 2015 (latest available result from Comcare). Serious injury rate is defined as a claim that requires an absence from work of one working week or more per 1,000 full time equivalent employees. There have been no work-related fatalities at Telstra this year. Lost time injury frequency rate1 (LTIFR) NEXT STEPS UPDATE CONTINUE 1.36 1.12 0.98 our Group HSE Standards, to develop and implement as a key input to our HSE health and wellbeing FY13 FY14 FY15 Risk Control Framework programs aimed at minimising workplace Notes: 1 – LTIFR is the reported number of accepted workers’ compensation claims for work-related injury or disease that safety risks incur lost time for each million hours worked. Includes Telstra Corporation Ltd employees only, not including subsidiaries or contractors. Bigger Picture 2015 Sustainability Report 15 EMPLOYMENT AND WORKPLACE RELATIONS 67 per cent of employees seeking redeployment after being impacted by redundancy secured new roles within the business this year. approach The number of permanent Telstra roles constructively with all parties. In this impacted was less than initially proposed round of negotiations we’re seeking terms We aim to build constructive relationships as a result of feedback received during the and conditions of employment that will with our employees and their consultation process. continue to build on existing best-practice, representatives, including trade unions, The 100 per cent acquisition of Pacnet such as the provision of 16 weeks paid with a focus on dialogue and resolution. Limited, a provider of connectivity, primary carer parental leave, an additional We carefully manage our workforce ‘Telstra’ day of leave, purchased leave and managed services and data centre services requirements, particularly the mix of skills flexible working options. to carriers, multinational corporations and required as the structure of our business governments in the Asia Pacific region in The percentage of employees employed changes. We treat employees impacted by April this year. Headquartered in Singapore under an enterprise agreement has structural changes with compassion and and Hong Kong, Pacnet has around 815 increased to around 65 per cent from 63 respect. employees across 25 offices in 11 per cent last year. This percentage will We provide a comprehensive four to six countries, including Australia, China, India, continue to increase as the vast majority week Redeployment and Career Transition Japan, the United Kingdom and the United of new employees joining Telstra will Program for all employees whose positions States. be covered by the Telstra Enterprise have been made redundant and give Agreement (EA). The remaining 35 per those wishing to be redeployed within Engaging with unions cent of employees are employed on the business priority for job vacancies at individual contracts or individual statutory In Australia, we regularly engage with Telstra, as per our Redeployment Policy. We agreements. Individuals on statutory the Community and Public Sector Union also provide professional support services agreements can elect to revert to the (CPSU), the Communications, Electrical for employees and their families through EA at any time. and Plumbing Union of Australia (CEPU) our Employee Assistance Program. Our and Professionals Australia (APESMA). Award modernisation Internal Resolution Policy ensures that employees can seek a review of certain We also consult with unions when we In November 2014 Telstra finalised decisions that impact them. make any significant change to our policies discussions with the unions on replacing and processes. Our aim is to maintain an its 11 Telstra awards with one modern progress open, constructive relationship with union Telstra award. representatives. Workforce profile The Telstra Award 2015 commenced operation in February 2015 and, along As at June 30 2015, Telstra Group’s total Enterprise agreements with the General Retail Industry Award workforce was 39,017 people (full-time In May this year we commenced 2010, sets out the minimum standards for equivalent). This is an increase of bargaining for a new Telstra Enterprise the Fair Work Commission to use when 12.5 per cent compared to last year. Agreement (EA) to replace the current assessing any of Telstra's future enterprise This growth is due to a number of agreement, which is set to expire on 30 agreements prior to giving their approval. acquisitions made throughout the period September 2015, but which will remain in and the expansion of existing operations, effect until a new agreement is in place. We are committed to negotiating for a NEXT in keeping with our international growth ambitions. Significant organisational simple, fair enterprise agreement that changes in the past year include: will deliver on the needs of our employees. To support our approach, we have STEPS A restructure within our Global Enterprise Services division, to establish a established a set of bargaining principles new global delivery model for our designed to support our growth, help FINALISE our workforce evolve to deliver Telstra’s international customers. This restructure strategy and maintain our pay for the negotiation of the new resulted in the removal of 633 Australian performance model. We are taking a Telstra EA and implement based roles between September 2014 and August 2015, including 412 permanent values-driven approach to ensure our it across the business Telstra roles and 221 contractor roles. people are treated fairly, and we bargain Bigger Picture 2015 Sustainability Report 16 Our people WORKFORCE DATA Workforce profile1 Age distribution Number as at 30 June 2015 Percentage as at 30 June 2015 % change FY15 FY14 FY13 FY15 FY142 FY13 FY14FY15 16-24 4.4 5.3 5.6 Telstra Group3 25-34 24.2 24.3 26.1 39,017 34,683 37,721 12.50 Full time equivalent 35-44 29.4 29.3 29.6 Telstra Group excluding contractors4 36,165 32,354 34,679 11.78 45-54 27.0 27.0 25.3 Full time equivalent 55+ 14.9 14.1 13.3 Telstra Corporation5 29,006 28,983 28,785 0.08 Headcount Notes: 1 – Workforce profile data excludes individuals on long term leave. 2 – Our FY14 Telstra Workforce by employment level Group and Telstra Group excluding contractors numbers have been restated this year from 34,261 and 31,931 respectively, as three controlled entities were found not to be included in Percentage as at 30 June 2015 FY14 FTE reporting. 3 – Includes Telstra Corporation and controlled entity full time employees and equivalents, contractors and staff employed through agency arrangements in Australia and internationally. 4 – Telstra Group excluding contractors and staff employed through agency arrangements in Australia and internationally. 5 – Includes full time and part time employees paid FY15 FY14 FY13 by Telstra Corporation (excluding casual staff, all controlled entity-paid staff, and agency staff in Australia and internationally). This definition is used in our workforce reporting of: age distribution; workforce by employment levels and employment type; workforce by contract type; total new Executive management hires; total new hires by gender and age; total turnover, turnover by gender and age group and 0.9 0.9 0.8 absenteeism unless otherwise noted. (Bands A, B and C) Middle management Telstra Group significant geographic locations (Bands 1 and 2) 33.3 30.9 27.7 Percentage as at 30 June 2015 Operational 65.8 68.2 71.5 (Bands 3 and 4) FY15 FY14 FY13 Australia 84.6 91.5 90.8 Workforce by employment type China 7.6 4.6 2.2 Percentage as at 30 June 2015 Hong Kong 2.5 1.4 5.9 FY15 FY14 FY13 Philippines 0.1 1.0 <0.1 Permanent full time 93.0 92.9 92.9 Other1 5.2 1.6 1.1 Permanent part time 5.6 5.7 5.9 Fixed term full time 1.3 1.3 1.2 Note: 1 – Other countries are UK, Singapore, US, India, Japan, South Korea, Malaysia, Indonesia, Taiwan, Sweden and Thailand. Fixed term part time 0.0 0.1 <0.1 Bigger Picture 2015 Sustainability Report 17 Our people Workforce data Telstra workforce by contract type Turnover by gender and age group Percentage as at 30 June 2015 Headcount FY15 FY14 FY13 FY15 FY14 FY13 Individual contracts or Male 1,835 2,586 2,590 35 37 41 statutory agreements Female 1,021 1,405 1,799 Collective agreements 65 63 59 16-24 346 462 545 Notes: Individual contracts or individual statutory agreements include Australian Workplace Agreements (AWAs), Individual Transitional Employment Agreements (ITEAs) and common law contracts. Collective agreements include Enterprise Agreements (EAs). 25-34 768 1,155 1,528 Total new hires 35-44 659 963 1,115 45-54 532 593 650 FY15 FY14 FY13 55 + 551 818 551 Headcount 3,026 4,430 4,055 Note: Turnover is the number of employees who leave Telstra including all types of separation. Rate (%) 10.4 14.1 12.3 Absenteeism rates Percentage New hires by gender and age group Headcount FY15 FY14 % change Australia 3.67% 3.90% FY15 FY14 FY13 FY14 –FY15 Notes: Number of actual absenteeism days lost (due to incapacity of any kind) as a percentage of total days scheduled to be worked by workforce. Reported for the first time in FY14. Male 1,910 2,759 2,431 -30.8 Female 1,116 1,671 1,624 -33.2 16-24 675 1,033 909 -34.7 25-34 1,115 1,692 1,586 -34.1 35-44 754 1,052 980 -28.3 45-54 378 506 450 -25.3 55 + 95 147 130 -35.4 Total turnover FY15 FY14 FY13 Headcount 2,856 3,991 4,389 Rate (%) 9.8 12.7 13.3 Note: Turnover is the number of employees who leave Telstra including all types of separation. Bigger Picture 2015 Sustainability Report 18 ABOUT OUR REPORTING Our business About our sustainability Assurance Telstra is Australia’s leading reporting Independent assurance supports our telecommunications and information Our sustainability reporting comprises commitment to transparency and services company, offering a full range the Bigger Picture 2015 Sustainability accountability. To provide confidence of communications services and Report, our sustainability website and a for our stakeholders in our reporting competing in all telecommunications concise summary of our approach and Ernst & Young provides limited markets. We employ over 36,000 people performance in our 2015 Annual Report. assurance, in accordance with the ISAE directly, facilitate access to more than Through our reporting we aim to provide 3000 standard, over specified data and 2,000 network points of presence across information on sustainability issues related performance disclosures in our the globe and have one of Australia’s relevant to our business and of importance 2015 Annual Report and Bigger Picture largest shareholder bases, with around to our stakeholders, as defined through our 2015 Sustainability Report, as well as 1.4 million shareholders. annual materiality process. The material an assessment of Telstra's application We have a diverse range of customers, topics addressed within each chapter of of the principle of materiality, as outlined including consumer, small business, this report are outlined in Sustainability in the Global Reporting Initiative large enterprise and government at Telstra, and on the context page of each G4 guidelines. organisations, and we strive to put them corresponding chapter. at the centre of everything we do. In We develop our sustainability reporting You can access Ernst & Young’s Australia, our services are offered through in accordance with industry and assurance statement at 371 Telstra-branded retail stores, 84 sustainability standards including www.telstra.com/sustainability/report/about Telstra Business Centres, 137 Telstra the United Nations Global Compact business and enterprise partners and are Communication on Progress and the Feedback distributed by over 18,700 retail points of Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4 Core We welcome your feedback on our presence managed by our partners. Sustainability Reporting Guidelines, and sustainability reporting, approach In Australia we provide approximately with reference to AccountAbility’s AA1000 and performance. Please email Tim 16.7 million retail mobile services, 6.0 Principles Standard 2008. O’Leary, Chief Sustainability Officer at million retail fixed voice services and 3.1 sustainability@team.telstra.com million retail fixed data services. Telstra’s For more information visit international businesses operate in 20 Stay in touch www.telstra.com/sustainability/report countries around the world and include twitter.com/telstra Telstra’s global networks and managed services business, as well as Telstra’s Scope facebook.com/telstra China-based search and advertising Our sustainability reporting covers the Sustainability Matters business, Autohome Inc. financial year 1 July 2014 to 30 June 2015 www.telstra.com/sustainability/subscribe (FY15) for Telstra Corporation Limited. All We understand our customers want controlled entities are excluded unless technology and content solutions otherwise stated. that are simple and easy to use – that’s why we have built networks As our international operations expand like Australia’s largest fully integrated we are committed to developing a internet protocol (IP) network and global framework for sustainability data Australia’s largest mobile network. collection and reporting. Starting with our most material operations overseas we will United Nations Global Compact continue to expand on the scope of our reporting over time. You will find the icon below throughout the Bigger Picture 2015 Sustainability Wherever possible and relevant under the Report. It indicates where we are G4 guidelines we have extended the scope providing information on our progress in of this report to include our operations implementing the ten principles of the across the Telstra Group, as well as a United Nations Global Compact. discussion of any broader impacts across our value chain. Information regarding the controlled entities in the Telstra Group can be found in Note 25 to the Financial Statements in the 2015 Annual Report. Bigger Picture 2015 Sustainability Report 19 PUTTING OUR CUSTOMERS AT THE CENTRE CUSTOMER EXPERIENCE Bigger Picture 2015 Sustainability Report CONTENTS Click on page links Context 03 Protecting privacy 13 Our performance 04 Cyber safety 15 Customer advocacy 05 About our reporting 17 Personal service 05 Managing bill shock 07 Better service online 08 Australia’s leading mobile network 09 Innovation 10 eHealth 11 TIO complaints 11 Environmental Customer Value Proposition 12 Bigger Picture 2015 Sustainability Report CONTEXT Digital technologies and enhanced To achieve this, we must put the customer Material topics connectivity have transformed the way at the centre of everything we do. We must we live and connect. It is therefore more protect customer privacy and security, take Customer experience 05 important than ever for us to deliver proactive steps to ensure our customers Privacy and data protection 13–14 brilliant customer experiences. have a positive experience online and innovate to improve our processes, Cyber safety 15–16 products and service capabilities to better ICT innovation enabling meet customer needs. sustainability 10–12 eHealth 11 Network and Wi-Fi investment 09 Bigger Picture 2015 Sustainability Report 03 OUR PERFORMANCE Introduced REAL TIME data usage alerts and automatic data top-ups for post-paid Sent over 80,000 customers Surveyed on average 30,000 customers per customers per day a message Launched TELSTRA AIR® Australia’s largest day and used their with the name and contact Wi-Fi network feedback to improve details of the consultant they customer experience spoke to 52% customer interactions Extended 4G coverage to reach 94% conducted online, up six of the Australian percentage points population Performance Progress on FY15 commitments Result More info Use customer feedback and service records to identify and remedy negative customer experiences Page 05 100% Achieved Optimise our network investments to ensure our customers receive a quality network experience where Page 09 they need it most Prevent bill shock by making it simpler for our mobile Page 07 customers to monitor and control their data usage 0% In progress Ensure all new products and services are digitally enabled, so customers who choose to engage with us via Page 08 digital channels can do so end-to-end Update our website to provide a fully responsive digital experience from desktop, laptop, tablet and mobile Page 08 devices 0% Not achieved Deliver the first phase of our Digital First program Page 08 Achieved In progress Not achieved Bigger Picture 2015 Sustainability Report 04 CUSTOMER ADVOCACY We care about our customers and we’re putting them at the centre of everything we do. approach progress We now proactively contact customers who we can see are spending too much Improving customer advocacy is our number one priority. Our aim is to delight Personal service time trying to resolve an issue. We also give our customer-facing employees access our customers and show we care by This year we’ve continued to transform to specialised support teams, who aim to delivering superior networks, products our processes, product and service resolve even the most complex customer and services, as well as building a strong offerings to better meet customer needs. queries on the spot. While getting things customer-driven culture. We’ve also worked to embed customer right the first time will always be our Building customer advocacy is a advocacy in our culture. Our NPS result is priority, we will continue to invest in commercial imperative, as advocates a key component of our employee short making sure that when we don’t, we make are more likely to use our products and term incentive program and our people the effort to resolve the issue, so our services, and actively refer us to family, have been empowered with the tools and customers don’t have to. friends and colleagues. training required to deliver increasingly responsive, personalised customer service. When it comes to creating outstanding customer experiences we’ve come a long way, but we still have a long way to go. Throughout FY15 we sent We remain committed to changing the on average more than way people talk about Telstra. We are 80,000 emails and SMS addressing the issues that matter most by listening to our customers and acting on to our customers every their feedback. We ask our customers to day with the name and complete a short survey after interacting contact details of the with us and receive on average more than 30,000 responses, including 11,000 consultant they spoke to. verbatim comments every day. We use these insights to drive process, product Our focus throughout FY15 has been Customer feedback and service improvements across Telstra. on delivering the next phase of our personalised service agenda. In FY14 we I saw Customer Advisor Zeena Jordanintroduced You Have My Name, which What is NPS? Hill [pictured] from the Hobart store. provides customers with the name and She was knowledgeable, quick, and contact details of the person they spoke actually endeavoured to get to know to, so they can get back in touch with We measure customer advocacy using me along the way. Her attitude and them directly if required. This year we took the Net Promoter System (NPS). NPS assistance made what is normally things one step further and upgraded our enables us to measure our customers’ an arduous task for me an absolute systems to better enable customers to experiences and respond to their pleasure. Her follow-up was also feedback. It’s a simple metric that reach the right Telstra representative first second to none I really liked receiving shows how well we are serving our time, to avoid unnecessary transfers and the text message at the end of the day... customers, based on their likelihood to wait times. and when I did need to ring her the recommend Telstra. NPS is more than a While our aim is to get things right the first following day with further questions measurement tool. It’s about fostering time, we know we don’t always succeed. a way of doing business that drives she again handled this with genuine To help address this we’ve implemented a warmth and true expertise. Great customer loyalty. Our overall NPS score Service Recovery process. service to back up a great product. has improved by five points over the last twelve months. Thank-you Zeena!” Bigger Picture 2015 Sustainability Report 05 Customer experience Customer advocacy Feedback from our customers Advocate feedback “Telstra has finally picked up their act and have better offers and are doing a lot more for their customers. I spend a lot with them monthly and over all the years and I finally feel valued as a customer.” Passive feedback “In store service with Rhys was excellent. He was able to suggest changes which made a lot of sense for our situation, with three mobiles, and his suggestion of updating our modem to take care of very slow internet speeds appears to have worked well. Generally very happy with this experience. The reason I have given a 7 as far as recommending Telstra goes is that I have had some very challenging, prolonged, and difficult interactions This year we launched Check-In, a program Our people also got involved through with Telstra (via phone and call to help us ensure our customers are Telstra employee Check-In. During FY15 centre) and so have some reticence in receiving the best possible value from our employees connected with more wholeheartedly recommending Telstra their Telstra service. We sent personalised than 155,000 customers via a variety of to others.” account health checks to around 5.2 channels, with examples including over the million customers and made them phone, in store and onboard the Checkpermanently available via our online self In bus, which toured regional Australia. Detractor feedback service tools. We also invited customers to This enabled us to better understand how visit our stores for a face-to-face account customers’ services are going and ask health check. 460,000 customers visited them how we can do better. Any issues “We were having trouble with our our stores to review their accounts and raised during Check-Ins were followed up modem for months and were not ensure they are making the most of all by our customer service representatives getting anywhere. After many calls and services available to them. within two working days. frustration you finally sent us a new modem in October 2014. But we were Our Telstra Thanks® loyalty program is still no better off, the internet kept 460,000 customers also delivering benefits to our customers dropping out. Finally the local Telstra visited our stores for a by providing access to discounted and pre-release tickets for music, sports technician came out, replaced wires face-to-face account and movies, as well as money-can’t-buy and a junction box to our house. [They] fixed the wiring from your pole on the health check as part of experiences. This financial year, Telstra street. At the moment all seems to be our Check-In program. customers purchased more than 3.1 million tickets and experiences through Telstra ok, thank goodness. It certainly took long enough.” Thanks and feedback on the program has been overwhelmingly positive. Bigger Picture 2015 Sustainability Report 06 Customer experience Customer advocacy Managing bill shock To help our customers stay in control of their mobile bills we introduced a new Customer feedback We are committed to providing our alert for customers who incur excess data customers with more value and the charges. Customers are now also being confidence that they won’t encounter “Just got a nice surprise from @Telstra. alerted each time they incur an additional unexpected usage charges. They just doubled my mthly internet $50 in charges. This year we became the first telco in data from 500GB to 1000GB, for no We also give customers the choice of cost. Awesome! Thanks Telstra!” Australia to make calls from mobiles to minimising excess data charges by opting 1800 numbers free of charge. We were for automatic data top ups when required. also the first to introduce real time mobile This feature, Extra Data, gives customers In response to customer concerns about data usage alerts for post-paid mobile the option to receive additional data international roaming costs, this year customers. This service provides alerts in 1GB, $10 blocks when they reach we introduced the Telstra Travel Pass. to customers when they reach 50 per their monthly limit. We were the first The pass allows customers to make cent, 85 per cent and 100 per cent of their telco in Australia to offer this to all and receive unlimited calls to and from included monthly data allowance, to help customers without requiring them to standard numbers, send unlimited text them manage their data use. This year we take up a new plan. messages to standard numbers and delivered more than five million messages We surprised our fixed broadband use an included data allowance while per month advising customers of their customers this year by providing data abroad. Designed to make it simple for voice and data usage. allowance top ups for approximately our customers to use their Australian mobile overseas, customers can use the Customer TIO complaints 1.8 million consumer fixed broadband affordable three-day Travel Passes in over customers, as a permanent, free addition regarding mobile data to their existing plans. Additionally, we 40 popular holiday destinations worldwide. charges have reduced at least doubled data allowances for by 33 per cent since real more than 96 per cent of our business For information to help manage usage customers, when compared to their time data alerts were current plan. overseas, visit www.telstra.com/overseas introduced. and www.telstra.com/business/overseas Bigger Picture 2015 Sustainability Report 07 Customer experience Customer advocacy Better service online The digital revolution is reshaping customer expectations – and the business models that answer their needs. Our goal is to be 100 per cent digitally enabled by FY17 so that our customers always have the choice to engage with us online, if and when it suits them. This year we completed year one of our Digital First agenda, aimed at providing our customers with greater access to our products and services, and the flexibility to decide how, when and from where they interact with us. Through Digital First our customers are gaining greater control of their accounts and services, product features and support options, all while saving valuable time. To support our broader digital agenda, This year: 52% of all customer we also: interactions took place Relaunched telstra.com to provide a fully responsive digital experience from 2.5 MILLION online. tablet and mobile devices for all website customers used My Account services each month Key Digital First initiatives launched content, improving the quality of more than in FY15 include: half our customer visits Our Telstra 24x7® App hit Policy changes for all new products and services to be digitally enabled from the Significantly improved page response times from five seconds to less than one 7 MILLION downloads and is used regularly outset, so customers can engage with us second and improved website stability by around 2.3 million customers via digital channels end-to-end Upgraded our payment extension service to provide assessments in real Simplified processes for events such Over 350,000 as moving home, reducing the number of time, further encouraging interactions to steps required to complete an order, take place via our digital channels cutting down on customer wait time Hosted the Australian Digital Summit, live chat sessions each month bringing together digital thought leaders via Telstra 24x7 Chat A personalised self-service support tool where customers, starting with ADSL from companies such as PayPal, Evernote and Twitter. Attended by over 500 people Responded to over broadband users, can enter a unique code online to receive help matched to their combined product, service and usage and streamed live around the world, the summit explored the emergence of digital 9,000 into the physical world, examined how digital Customer Care requests on information, saving time and the hassle of Facebook and Twitter each week calling technology is disrupting traditional business models and showcased Smart-IVR, a service that anticipates Our customer community, opportunities for collaboration between CrowdSupport® had over why customers are calling, then sends an 20 MILLION big business and start-ups. SMS with a link to a webpage that can help resolve their issue views and now has a member ‘Leave it with us’, enabling customers Customer transactions base of over 230,000 who are short of time to lodge an issue conducted online 3.6 MILLION online and leave it with us to resolve. Rather than waiting on the phone or in store while we investigate, customers are customers switched to Email Bill and contacted via their preferred channel more than 77 per cent of customer within 24 hours with either a solution payments were made online. or a status update on their issue. 40% 46% 52% FY13 FY14 FY15 Bigger Picture 2015 Sustainability Report 08 Customer experience Customer advocacy Australia’s leading mobile In June this year we announced that Developed in FY14, our LANES technology Telstra will build 429 new 3G and 4G enables us to separate a portion of network towers over the next three years as spectrum that 4G network technology can The rise of connected devices is driving an part of the Government’s Mobile Black operate on and offer this to Emergency ongoing and insatiable demand for data Spot Programme, to better serve our Services for their exclusive use. This means and our customers are relying on mobile customers in regional, rural and remote no matter how many people are using the technology more than ever. parts of Australia. In addition to the new Telstra network, Emergency Services can In order to keep up with this demand, mobile towers, we will be installing 250 have a dedicated ‘lane’ to carry their critical we continue to innovate and invest in Small Cells to deliver high speed 4G data communications in 4G coverage areas. expanding our mobile network. services in country towns where suitable Telstra infrastructure is available. We will The Telstra mobile contribute $165 million to this program over the next three years. network currently As part of our strategy to drive network reaches 99.3 per cent innovation, last year we committed $100 of the population and million to building Australia’s largest Wi-Fi is the largest network network. We commenced a trial of this technology in November 2014, switching in the country, covering on more than 2,600 Wi-Fi hotspots across more than 2.4 million the country. Since then we’ve connected square kilometres. more than 1.5 million unique devices to free Wi-Fi. In FY15, we invested $1.3bn in new 4G After a successful trial, we officially 700MHz and 2600MHz spectrum, enabling launched our network, Telstra Air, us to offer even faster network speeds in June this year. Telstra home broadband Brian Harcourt through the introduction of 4GX services. customers are now able to get online Executive Director These services, which are exclusive to using their home broadband allowance Customer Service Delivery Telstra, are now available in over 1,200 at thousands of hotspots within 250 towns towns and suburbs across Australia, and cities across Australia. Additionally, “We work hard to ensure our network meaning we’re now providing 4G (4G to make it easier and more affordable is delivering the best possible service, and 4GX) coverage to 94 per cent of the to connect when travelling, Telstra Air however with a network our size we’re population. Introducing 4GX has also had always going to experience some members are able to access their home broader benefits, freeing up space across faults and outages. Network faults can broadband allowance at 15 million be caused by something as small as our traditional 4G services to manage hotspots in 18 countries around the world someone accidently digging up cable in growing demands for data across our – thanks to an exclusive partnership with their backyard, to a network tower losing network. world-leading Wi-Fi provider Fon. power during a severe storm. This can be extremely frustrating for our customers At the 2015 Mobile World Congress in and this year, with a number of natural What is spectrum? Barcelona, Telstra was recognised by disasters impacting our networks, some the Groupe Speciale Mobile Association customers’ patience was put to the test. for our network innovation, winning We have a dedicated faults team working Mobile networks use radio transmission the Broadband for all: Outstanding LTE to respond to network fault and outage to carry signals through the air just complaints, and it is our priority to Contribution award for our LANES concept. like radio and television. The spectrum continue to improve this service in FY16 we use is defined by where on the dial – delivering proactive communications we sit (the frequency) and how much whenever an outage or fault is impacting of the dial we take up (the spectrum a customer’s service, and faster fix rates to keep our customers connected.” bandwidth). The more spectrum bandwidth we have access to, the greater the amount of information we can carry and the more users we can support on our network. Bigger Picture 2015 Sustainability Report 09 Customer experience Customer advocacy Muru-D startup accelerator program graduates. Image: Torsten Blackwood Innovation Innovate – our Innovation Hub is our and entrepreneurship across Southeast online innovation community. The Hub has Asia. muru-D is also forging strategic In a competitive market place we know almost 16,000 users, and over 1,350 ideas global partnerships with other startup innovation must be the rule, not the have been submitted since it was launched communities, like The Icehouse in exception. in 2013, including more than 600 in FY15. New Zealand. New ideas are key to achieving continued Approximately 50 of these ideas have been Co-Create – This year we started to product and service differentiation prototyped and turned into new collaborate with Deakin University's Centre and securing long term growth. We are approaches, products or services, with for Intelligent Systems and Robotics (CISR). focused on nurturing these ideas because many more in the pipeline. CISR wanted to deploy ‘haptics’ technology, we know companies that don’t innovate This year we also brought together 60 of however they were unable to communicate will be left behind. our most talented developers, designers reliably and robustly over the long distance Through our innovation and marketers to participate in our required. We partnered with CISR, second company ‘Hackathon’ – The Telstra combining our network capabilities, strategy we are leveraging Challenge Cup. With 48 hours on the clock expertise, and commercial acumen with new and emerging their ‘haptics’ technology to develop unique and the mission to ‘accelerate advocacy’, technologies to delight and 11 teams formed to rapidly prototype intellectual property that can be applied to better serve our customers, solutions to a variety of challenges crowda wide range of applications in health and as well as to drive sourced from across the company. robotics. productivity. Working with the Telstra Foundation, one Venture – We further expanded our team built a digital solution that will help investment in innovation through Telstra Innovation comes in all shapes and sizes, clients of the MJD Foundation, a not for Ventures, this year acquiring stakes in nine so we have a range of internal and external profit organisation that assists Indigenous breakthrough Australian and international innovation channels in place to help people living in the Northern Territory with companies increasing the portfolio to a generate opportunities. Our priority areas MJD a hereditary neuro-degenerative total of 20 companies. New investments include: disease, to ‘bank’ their speech for use once include Zimperium, a leader in enterprise Fix – our T-Solve platform is a tool for mobile phone security; Gorilla, a leader in they have lost the ability to speak. raising issues and ideas that relate to video image recognition; and Panviva, a continuously improving our products, Incubate – Telstra’s startup accelerator leader in business process guidance processes and systems to achieve a better program, muru-D® provides six months of software. For details of further acquisitions experience for our customer and our staff. tailored support to selected technology undertaken this year, see the Build new 1,018 employees lodged issues through entrepreneurs. muru-D class two growth businesses section of our 2015 this platform in FY15 and 490 helped to graduated in May 2015, with all teams Annual Report. resolve them. Overall 2,207 cases were securing paying customers, some resolved throughout FY15. internationally. In April, muru-D launched in Singapore, aspiring to attract the region’s best digital talent and foster local technology innovation Bigger Picture 2015 Sustainability Report 10 Customer experience Customer advocacy eHealth The digital revolution has fundamentally changed many sectors and Australians have embraced the opportunities for improved and more convenient services in areas such as retail, banking and travel. We believe that the power of connection can also transform healthcare for all Australians and make a safer, more cost effective, convenient and productive healthcare system. To achieve this, we formally launched Telstra Health in October 2014, with the ambition of becoming Australia’s leading provider of integrated eHealth solutions. We’ve acquired, invested or partnered with 15 leading eHealth companies to build our presence across the healthcare system, including eight in FY15, and are integrating these capabilities to create entirely new Hackdivate for social good that can drive benefit, today it can solutions that address key healthcare In April 2015 Telstra, in partnership with happen in a matter of hours, or days challenges. Examples this year included Cisco, hosted Hackdivate, a hackathon as the Hackdivate event has proven. the launch of ‘hospital in the home’ solution that took place over 48 hours in Sydney Telstra is one of Australia’s leading tech MyCareManager and the continued use of and Melbourne. Hackdivate brought companies, and to be able to use our the National Telehealth Connection Service together volunteer members of the expertise to create social value has been to close the gap by providing specialist software developer community to brilliant.” care to remote Indigenous communities. create tech solutions for five not for Robyn Hudson from the Peter MacCallum TIO complaints profit organisations. Cancer Centre said the weekend offered Three Telstra Foundation partners – The the potential to leverage technology to When it comes to delivering brilliant Alannah and Madeline Foundation, SYN improve patient care. customer service we don’t always get it right first time, but pleasingly Media and Cerebral Palsy Alliance – were “Poor communication is the top first stage (Level 1) complaints to involved in the hackathon, along with the complaint in healthcare, and Hackdivate the Telecommunications Industry Peter MacCallum Cancer Centre and the enabled our teams to devise techOmbudsman (TIO) decreased this year. Salvation Army. based ways of connecting people — Each of the five organisations presented patients to patients, patients to staff, By June 2015 the number of first stage a business scenario they’d like help with, and staff to staff, both inside Peter (Level 1) complaints had reduced to 198 and the participating teams got to work Mac and potentially with colleagues per day. This is a reduction of 19.2 per cent using Telstra’s Cisco Cloud Services web across the sector.” compared to the same time last year. scale cloud platform. Robyn Cummins from the Cerebral Palsy The number of complaints we received per According to Vish Nandlall, Telstra’s Alliance was also blown away by the 10,000 subscribers also decreased by 20.1 Chief Technology Officer, the hackathon experience. per cent in FY15. This result demonstrates the positive impact our focus on customer showed the human side of technology “There’s a magic that happens when service is having for our customers. In and its many uses. you bring together people who have a June FY15 we received 1.77 first stage “Today the pace of technology is such disability, researchers and clinicians, and complaints per 10,000 subscribers, that it doesn’t take months or years to technical specialists. Put them in a room compared to 2.21 in June FY14. get to a technology proof of concept with a big challenge and it’s incredible what they come up with.” We continue to closely monitor the root cause of customer referrals to the TIO. Common areas of complaint include connection and order delays; contract disputes; device, hardware and connection faults; and disputed usage charges. We will maintain our strong focus on customer service in FY16 to continue to improve on this result. Bigger Picture 2015 Sustainability Report 11 Customer experience Customer advocacy NEXT STEPS REDUCE further the effort required for customers to do business with us EXTEND our 4G coverage to reach over 98 per cent of the population EXPAND the footprint of our Wi-Fi Network, Telstra Air DEPLOY the next generation of LTE technology, including voice over LTE, LTE broadcast and the next stage of LTE advanced, delivering peak Environmental Customer There is a compelling network speeds of up to Value Proposition 600 mbps business case for using We’re helping our customers reduce ICT to reduce energy and DELIVER their environmental impacts and improve their productivity through the carbon emissions, as well the second phase of our Digital First program, which use of information and communications as operating costs. will lay the foundations for a technology (ICT). digitally enabled sales and In FY15, we introduced a Green ICT service and identified ‘clean cloud’ as a carbon reduction opportunity. service ecosystem across for our enterprise customers, designed to our digital, field, retail and help identify opportunities to reduce their We are committed to working with our contact centre operations carbon emissions and electricity costs. customers to build their understanding As part of this service we developed a of the role ICT can play in enabling low carbon calculator to assist our customers carbon growth. During the year, we PROVIDE with estimating emissions from Telstraconducted market research into the improved access to My provided equipment on their premises. specific environmental drivers and Account and Telstra 24x7 App expectations across a number of industry by issuing all customers with We also undertook work to quantify the sectors. In FY16, we will embed the findings a Telstra ID, and enhance environmental impacts and benefits to our of our research into our environmental security and identification customers of Telstra’s cloud computing offerings. To be released in FY16, this offering for customers, and use it to drive options for greater peace work will help our customers to estimate our approach to sustainable product of mind the benefits of moving their IT systems to design and innovation. the cloud and builds upon the findings of SIMPLIFY our Connecting with a Low-Carbon Future logistics and fulfilment For more information on our Environment report. Released in 2014, this report found processes to enable more Strategy and Environmental Customer that the ICT sector is in an ideal position to customers to receive next Value Proposition, see the Environmental help government, business and consumers day delivery of their online stewardship chapter of this sustainability minimise their energy consumption purchases report. Bigger Picture 2015 Sustainability Report 12 PROTECTING PRIVACY Our customers trust us to protect their privacy and keep their data secure, and we continue to work diligently to honour this trust. approach The Privacy Commissioner found we were The Pacnet corporate IT network remains authorised to publish the customer’s isolated from Telstra’s IT systems and we Our customers trust us to protect their personal information in the White Pages, found no evidence of any activity related privacy and keep their data secure, and but had failed to take reasonable steps to to this incident on Telstra’s networks. we continue to work diligently to honour provide notice that we would disclose this In May 2015, the Privacy Commissioner this trust. Our priority is to ensure we keep information. issued a determination that Telstra had customers’ personal information safe and secure, and that we are transparent in the We apologised to the customer in question breached the privacy of an individual way we manage this information. and have updated our Privacy Statement customer by failing to provide him with to make it clear that fixed line customer access to his personal information. With We’ve learnt a lot from past privacy information is published in the White the exception of incoming call records, incidents and remain committed to Pages unless the customer requests we were ordered to provide the individual managing privacy risks as technology, and a silent line. We have also updated our with “all the metadata information” held in the ways we use it, continue to evolve. processes to ensure customers are aware relation to his mobile phone service. We have implemented privacy controls of the option to have a silent line when they We already provide our customers access throughout our business and supply chain place an order. to their personal information, but this to improve the protection of our customers’ decision could extend this practice to personal information. We have in place We’ve learnt a lot from every piece of data on our networks, comprehensive security and network past privacy incidents and whether the data reveals anything about controls, business-wide policies and remain committed to them or not. We respect the role of the procedures, a network of privacy officers managing privacy risks as Privacy Commissioner and share their and mandatory training for all employees. technology, and the ways we commitment to transparency, but given the We also regularly engage with our broad implications of this decision we have use it, continue to evolve. customers, suppliers and regulators sought a review of the determination with to understand changing trends and In April 2015 Telstra finalised the the Administrative Appeals Tribunal. expectations around privacy, and maintain acquisition of Pacnet Limited, a company an ongoing dialogue with key industry that provides connectivity, managed Privacy framework and regulatory bodies, to ensure we work services and data centre services in As part of our ongoing commitment to together to create a stronger privacy the Asia-Pacific region. Shortly after being transparent with our customers, culture. we completed the acquisition we were this year we updated the privacy section advised that Pacnet’s corporate IT network, of the Telstra website to reflect the progress essentially its email and other business changing privacy landscape and management systems, had been accessed provide more detail on how we collect, Incidents and complaints by an unauthorised third party. use and disclose our customers’ Throughout FY15 there were three We have no evidence that information was personal information. notable incidents regarding our stolen from the network. Nonetheless, As we continue to provide our customers customers’ privacy. we took immediate action to investigate with more products and services that they In November 2014 the Privacy and respond to the breach, including are using in more ways and places, we will Commissioner issued a determination addressing the security vulnerability and continue to adapt our privacy practices to that Telstra breached the privacy of an putting in place additional monitoring accommodate these changes. individual customer by not offering and incident response capabilities. We them a silent line. also took active steps to notify our Pacnet employees, customers and relevant To view Telstra’s Privacy Statement, visit regulators around the world of the breach. www.telstra.com/privacy Bigger Picture 2015 Sustainability Report 13 Customer experience Protecting privacy Managing metadata Transparency report Copyright infringement With digital technology now central to our Telstra’s Transparency Report is the first Online copyright infringement has lives, we are generating more data than of its kind in Australia. Its aim is to give been a hotly debated topic this year. ever before. Some of our customers and our customers more information about The telecommunications industry, the broader community are concerned our legal obligations as a copyright holders and the Australian about who has access to this data. telecommunications carrier. Government have been actively engaged In response to these concerns we in a policy process to help improve Like all telecommunications companies introduced new transparency measures awareness among consumers of the that provide services in Australia, we aimed at providing our customers with a importance of copyright and sourcing are required by law to assist Australian clearer picture of the data we provide to legitimate content online. Government agencies for defined law enforcement agencies. purposes, such as investigating and solving We believe that copyright infringement In a first for the Australian crimes. We also provide assistance to is wrong and that our industry needs to telecommunications industry we now emergency services agencies in response take the lead in achieving a reasonable, offer customers the same access to their to life-threatening situations and Triple practical solution to the problem that also metadata as we are required to offer to Zero emergency calls. respects customer privacy. law enforcement agencies in response to a We take protecting customer data very This year Telstra, along with the broader lawful request without a warrant. seriously and scrutinise any requests telecommunications industry, developed We also made a submission to the we receive from law enforcement a draft Code of Practice for managing Parliamentary Joint Committee on agencies to ensure we only comply online piracy. Currently with the Australian Intelligence and Security this year, with lawful requests. Communications and Media Authority regarding their inquiry into a Data (ACMA) for review, the Code aims to Between 1 July 2014 and 30 June 2015, Retention Scheme in Australia. We establish an approach that balances the Telstra received and acted on around emphasised the need for an appropriate interests of internet consumers, content 90,000 requests for customer information. balance between delivering community owners and internet service providers and enables us to protect the rights and privacy safety and meeting consumers’ Type of law enforcement of our customers. ACMA is expected to expectations of privacy, while minimising request the regulatory burden imposed on industry. deliver a ruling on the code in late 2015. Description FY15 To read the conditions for requesting Telstra customer information, NEXT STEPS access to your personal metadata and to carriage service records and 79,188 make a request, visit pre-warrant checks www.telstra.com.au/privacy/customer-access Life-threatening situations and 7,485 Triple Zero emergency calls What is metadata? Court orders 587 CONTINUE Warrants for interception to be vigilant in protecting Metadata is the data generated when or access to stored 2,846 our customers’ personal you use a telecommunications service – information such as the number communications information you called, when you called and how Total 90,106 long you spoke for. It does not include CONTINUE the content of a communication, such as the detail of what you said or to be transparent about wrote in an email or SMS. In certain To view our full Transparency Report, visit how we’re managing www.telstra.com/transparency circumstances the police and other customers’ personal enforcement agencies can lawfully access metadata. information, particularly in the development of new products and services Bigger Picture 2015 Sustainability Report 14 CYBER SAFETY At Telstra we want to empower people to participate safely in the online world. approach Online safety is about more than protecting us from online danger and personal risk. It’s also about creating a sense of belonging and standards of behaviour that enable us all to have a positive experience online. At Telstra we want to empower people to participate safely in the online world and provide the networks, products and services that make it easy to do so. We work with industry, government, law enforcement and community organisations across Australia to help our customers stay safe online. We support a range of government initiatives to raise community Telstra Mobile Protect helps 65 per cent of parents surveyed said cyber safety awareness, such as Safer they gave their kids a smart-phone for manage kids’ screen time Internet Day, and we provide cyber safety the peace-of-mind it provided, such as To help parents more confidently support being able to contact them whenever tools and guidance through a range of their kids as they explore the digital necessary. However many also thought consumer products and programs. world, we recently launched Mobile providing smart-phone access was a Protect, a free service for our mobile double-edged sword: progress contract customers. This year we introduced three new 79 per cent of parents surveyed fear The service enables parents to tailor a their child will receive unsolicited consumer products to help our customers mobile phone or tablet service to the contact from a stranger and 74 per stay safely connected: Telstra Broadband needs and maturity of their children. cent are concerned about the online Protect, Telstra Call Guardian and Telstra Mobile Protect allows parents to set content their kids access Mobile Protect. time-of-day limits on calls and mobile Telstra Broadband Protect is a home web use, block unwanted calls and texts,  per cent of parents say social 39 network security product that helps choose the mobile web content that can media apps distract their kids from protect every device connected to a Telstra be accessed on their kids’ mobile devices studying home broadband service. Features include and manage outgoing calls to specific 66  per cent of parents say their the blocking of websites known to contain contacts. children use smart-phones between scams and malicious content; controls to 9pm and midnight on school nights, The introduction of Mobile Protect help parents choose appropriate content encroaching on bedtime. responds to research we undertook this for children, as well as the times of day year into children’s smart-phone use and As at 30 June 2015, Telstra Mobile they go online; social network protection; parents’ primary concerns about their Protect was helping 8,900 customers anti-virus plus security; and a safe browser kids’ behaviour online. to foster positive experiences online. to help protect personal and financial data. Bigger Picture 2015 Sustainability Report 15 Customer experience Cyber safety Cyber Safety NEXT STEPS PROVIDE targeted cyber safety information to our vulnerable customers and communities with an emphasis on seniors, small-to-medium businesses and building Indigenous cyber safety capability ENHANCE To better protect our customers with a We also launched our largest-ever the quality and breadth home telephone line from scams and community awareness campaign of our cyber safety nuisance calls, we launched Telstra Call dedicated to helping customers identify awareness materials for Guardian. Since October 2014 Telstra telemarketers who attempt to mislead parents and general adult has received almost 12,000 reports from them and telephone scammers who try customers about telephone scams and and obtain their personal information. The consumers rogue telemarketers, attempting to ‘Is it really Telstra calling?’ information flyer illegally obtain our customers’ personal was sent to six million customers, and is information or falsely represent Telstra. available online at www.telstra.com/verify. The Telstra Call Guardian 301 is Australia’s first home phone with a virtual assistant For information about our approach that asks unknown callers to announce to cyber safety in the community, see their name prior to being connected. The the Community impact chapter of this caller’s name is announced when the sustainability report. user picks up the phone, and they can opt to block, accept or divert the call to their To find out more about our cyber safety answering machine. The phone can store activities, visit up to 1,000 numbers and friends and www.telstra.com/cybersafety family can be added to the contact list so their calls will get straight through. Bigger Picture 2015 Sustainability Report 16 ABOUT OUR REPORTING Our business About our sustainability Assurance Telstra is Australia’s leading reporting Independent assurance supports our telecommunications and information Our sustainability reporting comprises commitment to transparency and services company, offering a full range the Bigger Picture 2015 Sustainability accountability. To provide confidence of communications services and Report, our sustainability website and a for our stakeholders in our reporting competing in all telecommunications concise summary of our approach and Ernst & Young provides limited markets. We employ over 36,000 people performance in our 2015 Annual Report. assurance, in accordance with the ISAE directly, facilitate access to more than Through our reporting we aim to provide 3000 standard, over specified data and 2,000 network points of presence across information on sustainability issues related performance disclosures in our the globe and have one of Australia’s relevant to our business and of importance 2015 Annual Report and Bigger Picture largest shareholder bases, with around to our stakeholders, as defined through our 2015 Sustainability Report, as well as 1.4 million shareholders. annual materiality process. The material an assessment of Telstra's application We have a diverse range of customers, topics addressed within each chapter of of the principle of materiality, as outlined including consumer, small business, this report are outlined in Sustainability in the Global Reporting Initiative G4 large enterprise and government at Telstra, and on the context page of each guidelines. organisations, and we strive to put them corresponding chapter. at the centre of everything we do. In We develop our sustainability reporting You can access Ernst & Young’s Australia, our services are offered through in accordance with industry and assurance statement at 371 Telstra-branded retail stores, 84 sustainability standards including www.telstra.com/sustainability/report/about Telstra Business Centres, 137 Telstra the United Nations Global Compact business and enterprise partners and are Communication on Progress and the Feedback distributed by over 18,700 retail points of Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4 Core We welcome your feedback on our presence managed by our partners. Sustainability Reporting Guidelines, and sustainability reporting, approach In Australia we provide approximately with reference to AccountAbility’s AA1000 and performance. Please email Tim 16.7 million retail mobile services, 6.0 Principles Standard 2008. O’Leary, Chief Sustainability Officer at million retail fixed voice services and 3.1 sustainability@team.telstra.com million retail fixed data services. Telstra’s For more information visit international businesses operate in 20 Stay in touch www.telstra.com/sustainability/report countries around the world and include twitter.com/telstra Telstra’s global networks and managed services business, as well as Telstra’s Scope facebook.com/telstra China-based search and advertising Our sustainability reporting covers the Sustainability Matters business, Autohome Inc. financial year 1 July 2014 to 30 June 2015 www.telstra.com/sustainability/subscribe (FY15) for Telstra Corporation Limited. All We understand our customers want controlled entities are excluded unless technology and content solutions otherwise stated. that are simple and easy to use – that’s why we have built networks As our international operations expand like Australia’s largest fully integrated we are committed to developing a internet protocol (IP) network and global framework for sustainability data Australia’s largest mobile network. collection and reporting. Starting with our most material operations overseas we will United Nations Global Compact continue to expand on the scope of our reporting over time. You will find the icon below throughout the Bigger Picture 2015 Sustainability Wherever possible and relevant under the Report. It indicates where we are G4 guidelines we have extended the scope providing information on our progress in of this report to include our operations implementing the ten principles of the across the Telstra Group, as well as a United Nations Global Compact. discussion of any broader impacts across our value chain. Information regarding the controlled entities in the Telstra Group can be found in Note 25 to the Financial Statements in the 2015 Annual Report. Bigger Picture 2015 Sustainability Report 17 BRIDGING THE DIGITAL DIVIDE CONNECTING COMMUNITIES Bigger Picture 2015 Sustainability Report CONTENTS Click on page links Context 03 Disaster relief and recovery 11 Our performance 04 Volunteering and giving 12 Everyone Connected 05 Summary of social and community 14 Vulnerable customers 05 investment Customers with disability 06 15 Indigenous Australians 07 Rural and regional communities 07 About our Supporting digital literacy 08 reporting Cyber safety 09 Digital innovation 10 CONTEXT Digital connectivity is increasingly an The telecommunications sector in Material topics essential service, with access to the Australia has been successful in internet in many parts of the world now connecting the vast majority of people, but Digital access and inclusion 05 underpinning economic development, those that are missing out are at greater Digital literacy 08 social connections, education, the arts, risk of being permanently left behind. employment and social services. Barriers to digital access, be they physical, Cyber safety 09 financial or literacy-based, are likely to It is also evident that opportunity is Community investment 14 intrinsically linked to access. Finding a reinforce disadvantage. Social impacts of increased ICT use 03 job or accommodation, paying bills and That’s why our purpose – to create a staying in touch with family and friends are brilliant connected future for everyone – Disaster relief and recovery 11 all made simpler and quicker thanks to the is so important: it guides our social and internet and technology – provided you can community investment to focus on digital get online. inclusion and ensuring everyone has access to the benefits digital technology can bring. Bigger Picture 2015 Sustainability Report 03 OUR PERFORMANCE Reached almost 117k people through our digital literacy programs Provided assistance packages worth $2.8 million to around 28,000 214M Switched on Wi-Fi hotspots in customers affected 250 by natural disasters 40% towns and cities Total value of social and across Australia community contributions $11 in social value returned $1.6M value of community of all Australian public libraries have started their eSmart journey for every $1 invested volunteering in Tech Savvy Seniors Performance Progress on FY15 commitments Result More info Establish new partnerships to extend the reach of our Page 08 Achieved Everyone Connected digital literacy programs Develop a new product offering for vulnerable and Page 05 disadvantaged Australians Launch the first eSmart library and recruit an additional 260 libraries to the initiative, in partnership with The Page 09 Alannah and Madeline Foundation 0% In progress Release national strategy for Indigenous Digital Page 07 Excellence, in partnership with the NCIE Source three to five new Telstra Foundation investments Page 10 Deliver 10,000 volunteer days to the community Page 12 17% Not achieved Achieved In progress Not achieved Bigger Picture 2015 Sustainability Report 04 EVERYONE CONNECTED We provided $128.8 million in benefits through our programs for vulnerable customers. approach progress We believe that everyone – regardless of Vulnerable customers age, income, ability or location – should enjoy the benefits of being connected. Through our largest digital inclusion We want everyone to have the confidence program, Access for Everyone, we help and skills to participate safely in the people on a low income or facing financial digital world. hardship to stay connected. Since its inception in 2002, we’ve provided benefits With our core telecommunications to the value of more than $2 billion. capabilities, assets, expertise and scale, it makes good business sense for us to focus We work with more than 2,000 community our social and community investment on organisations across Australia that assist getting Everyone Connected. people in crisis to deliver these programs. In FY15, the benefit provided by all our programs for vulnerable customers was Our Everyone Connected strategy $128.8 million, a reduction of 11 per cent has four key objectives: compared to FY14, largely reflecting a  igital access – keeping D Elizabeth Broderick 01 people connected, especially lower take-up of our pensioner discount on fixed-line home phone services as more Sex Discrimination when they’re doing it tough Commissioner, Australian customers are moving to bundles. Around Human Rights Commission  igital literacy – helping D 885,000 pensioners received the discount 02 people gain the confidence this year to the value of $101 million, “For some women living with intimate and skills to enjoy the compared to 980,000 people in FY14. partner violence, having a secure phone digital world We provided home phone line rental can be the difference between life and relief for about 74,500 households and death. I applaud Telstra and WESNET  yber safety – helping C 03 people stay safe and be distributed around 72,500 pre-paid for the wonderful Safe Connections Initiative. I have no doubt that this calling cards, compared to 113,000 cards responsible online program will make a tangible difference distributed in FY14. Community agencies to the lives of thousands of women.”  igital innovation – D have reported a decrease in the need for 04 connecting technology with calling cards as clients are increasingly great ideas for social good. using mobile phones. Every month we also With technology now a major part of provided rebates on Telstra bills for around everyday life, stalkers and perpetrators 2,000 customers seeking emergency relief. of domestic violence increasingly use Through our Everyone Connected programs a variety of telephone, surveillance and In November 2014, we launched a new we support our most vulnerable customers. computer technologies to monitor and program in partnership with the Women’s We invest beyond our regulatory harass their victims. Women impacted by Services Network (WESNET). Telstra Safe obligations to provide these programs, and domestic violence need access to safe and Connections helps women impacted by partner with non-profit and government secure communications. domestic violence to stay safely connected organisations to deliver them. We regularly to their friends, family, essential services review our approach to identify groups and vital information. most in need, changing technologies and consumer preferences. Bigger Picture 2015 Sustainability Report 05 Connecting communities Everyone Connected Through the program, we provide up to 5,000 smartphones a year, along with $30 pre-paid credit and educational materials on the safe use of technology. This is in addition to $1 million in mobile pre-paid recharge cards Telstra already makes available each year to help homeless youth and victims of domestic violence stay connected. Telstra has a regular program of engagement with key consumer organisations in Australia to ensure our programs for vulnerable customers meet community needs. Since 2002, the Low Income Measures Assessment Committee (LIMAC) has generally met four times We also started releasing selected The majority of complaints related to fault per year to oversee the effectiveness BigPond™ movies with open captioning resolution, service connection or eligibility of Telstra’s low income package and for people with hearing impairment. for priority assistance; nine were about marketing plan. We meet regularly with point of sale issues, eight were about the Australian Communications Consumer equipment and one about the accessibility Removed of information. We routinely analyse TIO Action Network (ACCAN), in addition to day-to-day interactions on current issues. complaint data in order to eliminate the Our bi-annual CEO Consumer Roundtable root causes of complaints. from all Telstra provides a regular forum for peak This year, there were six new complaints consumer websites to consumer organisations to meet with our to the Australian Human Rights improve accessibility CEO and senior leaders to discuss current Commission, the Anti-Discrimination and emerging issues. Commission Queensland, the Victorian This year, our Disability Enquiry Hotline Equal Opportunity and Human Rights took more than 24,000 calls and processed Commission and the Anti-Discrimination To find out more about our vulnerable almost 5,000 successful applications for Commission Tasmania alleging disability customer programs, visit 5,800 products as part of our Disability discrimination. All complaints were www.telstra.com/hardship Equipment Program. Around 126,000 calls addressed during the year, with three were made to our Directory Assistance formally closed and three pending final Customers with disability Helpline by customers who are not able confirmation prior to formal closure. Our sixth Disability Action Plan (2013to use our printed or online telephone 2016) articulates Telstra’s commitment directories. To find out more, visit to improving the accessibility and In FY15, the Telecommunications Industry www.telstra.com/disability affordability of our products and services Ombudsman (TIO) received 115 customer for customers with disability. complaints that included reference to This year we launched a new accessibility disability access or equipment. portal on telstra.com that assists people with disability to identify the mobile communications products and services Providing bill assistance for to remain at home, leaving the family with only Centrelink benefits as income. that best suit their needs. A world first, cancer sufferers the portal assists customers by letting Along with other assistance, the Cancer Working with the Cancer Council of them search for features that may assist Council NSW supplied Carol’s family with NSW, we offer Telstra Bill Assistance specific disabilities such as speech, vision, Telstra bill assistance certificates. As a to help ease the significant financial cognitive and dexterity impairment. result, they could keep in touch during burden experienced by many people We also removed CAPTCHA – where users after a cancer diagnosis. Helping families long separations with the peace of mind are asked to enter letters or numbers keep in touch, especially when they are that their phone bill was taken care of. to prove they are a real person – from geographically separated for treatment, All referrals are made to the Cancer all online Telstra consumer platforms, is a practical way we can show we care. Council NSW by social workers and improving the accessibility of our health care professionals across This year we assisted the family of information for customers who are vision NSW and via the Cancer Council NSW 32 year old Carol in Northern NSW. Carol’s impaired. CAPTCHA can lock out blind or Helpline 13 11 20. six year old daughter was diagnosed with vision impaired users because they, or a brain tumour, which required lengthy their screen readers, are unable to read stays in hospital for both mother and Customers experiencing financial the often skewed text, and because audio daughter. With other children to care difficulties should call Telstra on CAPTCHA can be hard to hear. for, Carol’s husband stopped working 13 22 00. Bigger Picture 2015 Sustainability Report 06 Connecting communities Everyone Connected Our 4G network (4G and 4GX) now covers 94 per cent of the Australian population, up from 87 per cent in June 2014. In June this year we announced that Telstra will build 429 new 3G and 4G towers over the next three years as part of the Government’s Mobile Black Spot Programme, to better serve our customers in regional, rural and remote parts of Australia. In addition to the new mobile towers, we will be installing 250 Small Cells to deliver high speed 4G data services in country towns where suitable Telstra infrastructure is available. We will contribute $165 million to this program Indigenous Australians We also released Making the Connection, over the next three years. a series of essays exploring Indigenous We’re committed to addressing barriers As part of our strategy to drive network digital excellence. Commissioned by the to digital inclusion by ensuring Indigenous innovation, last year we committed $100 Telstra Foundation, Making the Connection customers and communities have access million to building Australia's largest Wi-Fi provides a range of views on the to ICT and the skills to benefit from network. We commenced a trial of this landscape of digital issues for Indigenous being online. technology in November 2014, switching communities. This year we continued to implement on more than 2,600 Wi-Fi hotspots across our $5 million, multi-year Indigenous Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane and many Digital Excellence (IDX) partnership To find out more about Indigenous regional towns and cities. Since then with the National Centre of Indigenous Digital Excellence, visit people around Australia have connected Excellence (NCIE). IDX aims to inspire http://idx.org.au more than 1.5 million unique devices to Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people free Wi-Fi. to take the next step towards ‘making Rural and regional digital objects’ (e.g. apps and devices), communities Switched on Wi-Fi build relevant skills and connect 250 We’re committed to delivering leading hotspots in Indigenous ‘digital makers’ with each telecommunications products and other and to meaningful opportunities in services to our customers in regional, the digital space. The work particularly rural and remote Australia. supports the next generation, namely young people aged 12–30 years old. Faster, more reliable connections provide better access to education, health and towns and cities We established the IDX Hub workspace business services, and can contribute to across Australia and team and set the foundations for economic growth. what IDX is and how we talk about it this year. At the IDX Hub, the IDX team The Telstra mobile network currently After a successful trial, we officially developed and prototyped workshops reaches 99.3 per cent of the population launched Telstra Air® in June this year. that included culturally-adapted and is the largest network in the country, Telstra home broadband customers are materials to teach code, robotics and covering 2.4 million square kilometres, now able to get online using their home 3D printing to Indigenous children. More thanks to our long term commitment to broadband allowance at thousands of than 55 young people attended. Based on network investment. hotspots in 250 towns and cities across its early success, the ‘MIT Scratch’ coding Australia. And, to make it easier and more This year we continued to enhance the program was expanded to roll out over a affordable to connect when travelling, Telstra mobile network by introducing 4GX, number of weeks as part of the NCIE After Telstra Air members are able to access a service that creates extra 4G coverage in School Program. their home broadband allowance at 15 rural and regional areas and in metro areas million hotspots in 18 countries around the offers extra 4G in-building coverage and world – thanks to an exclusive partnership faster 4G in-building speeds compared to with world-leading Wi-Fi provider, Fon. our regular 4G. Almost one million Telstra customers in more than 1,200 towns and suburbs are covered by 4GX. To find out more about Telstra Air, visit www.telstra.com/air Bigger Picture 2015 Sustainability Report 07 Connecting communities Everyone Connected Ming with students at a Digital Ambassador session Supporting digital literacy $11 in social value Being confident and literate with technology is an essential skill in the returned for every digital age. This year, our Everyone $1 invested in Tech Connected digital literacy programs Savvy Seniors reached almost 117,000 people. Along with face-to-face training, we We reached 18 per cent fewer people provide instructional videos and guides on through our digital literacy programs this our website, and self-help DVDs to public year due to an increased focus on providing libraries, community agencies and more face-to-face training. While this training than 100 universities of the third age. is more resource-intensive to deliver, These DVDs cover subjects such as getting it results in better learning outcomes for started with smartphones and tablets, participants. We increased participation social networking, and online banking in face-to-face training by 50 per cent and shopping. On average, our self-help in FY15. DVDs were loaned out six times per month B.T. Samuels To extend the reach of our face-to-face across 960 libraries nationally, for a total NSW Tech Savvy Seniors training to as many senior Australians of almost 70,000 loans throughout the training participant as possible, we partnered with the New year.1 South Wales (NSW) and Victorian state “The Tech Savvy Seniors basic internet In November 2014 we introduced Telstra governments to deliver Tech Savvy Seniors. training was great and really helps Digital Ambassadors, a new employee This year, we provided face-to-face training me in everyday life. As a pensioner, it’s volunteering program that delivers simple to almost 32,000 people. useful that I can now keep up to date training for seniors who have minimal with important government services. This training was delivered through or no digital literacy skills. We partner The training has also made a difference an extensive network of libraries and with community organisations such as in my confidence, and I’m slowly getting community colleges. In February 2015, Red Cross and Villa Maria to deliver the better at doing things myself online. The we expanded the NSW program to deliver coaching sessions, as well as providing Tech Savvy Seniors course is not only training in a number of languages other large scale support for events such as educational, it’s also a fun way to spend than English, including Hindi, Arabic, NSW Seniors’ Week and the Sydney time and keep in touch with others.” Cantonese, Mandarin and Vietnamese. Royal Easter Show. An independent evaluation of the NSW Almost 3,300 seniors have received program, conducted by the University coaching sessions in the seven months To access our free Everyone Connected of Melbourne this year, concluded that since the program launched, and training materials, visit almost 90 per cent of participants found participating employees have found it www.telstra.com/seniors it to be helpful in increasing their personally rewarding to help someone knowledge or confidence in using new connect to the internet for the first time. technologies. The study also found that The program is also multilingual, assisting for every dollar invested in the Tech seniors in Mandarin and Cantonese as Savvy Seniors program, almost $11 in well as English. social value is created, including through 1 For an overview of our calculation method see strengthened connections with family and our glossary, available at www.telstra.com/sustainability/report/about friends, greater community involvement and better utilisation of online information and services. Bigger Picture 2015 Sustainability Report 08 Connecting communities Everyone Connected Cyber safety In August 2012, we launched eSmart We continue to participate in the Libraries, a multi-year, $8 million Australian Government’s Online Safety We want to ensure that everyone has the partnership between the Telstra Consultative Working Group and continued confidence, knowledge and skills to have Foundation and The Alannah and Madeline as co-chair of the Technology and a positive experience in the digital world. Foundation. This world-leading cyber Wellbeing Roundtable with ReachOut.com Our commitment is to provide consumers safety program is designed to better this year. We remain the only Australasian with the information they need to have equip Australia’s 1,500 public libraries to member of the Family Online Safety a positive online experience and to support library users with the skills they Institute (FOSI), an international, non-profit collaborate with industry, government, need for smart, safe and responsible use organisation that convenes leaders in academic and community organisations to of technology. To date, over 40 per cent of industry, government and the non-profit help create a safer, more trusted internet public libraries across Australia sectors to collaborate and innovate to for everyone. (more than 600 libraries) have started develop new solutions and policies in the This year, we published an important the eSmart journey. field of online safety. cyber safety research paper to inform our In September 2014, Hume Libraries in own work and contribute to the broader Melbourne became Australia’s first public For more information, see the community discussion on cyber safety. library service to complete the program Customer experience chapter of this Addressing the cyber safety challenge: and achieve eSmart status. In December, sustainability report. from risk to resilience describes the the Campaspe Regional Library Service in 40% cyber safety issues emerging from a Victoria became the first regional library range of technology trends, how different service in Australia to achieve eSmart populations are using technologies, the status. Five other libraries now also have risks they face, and how we can effectively eSmart status, having completed the respond to each group’s unique cyber program this year. Staff at these libraries safety needs. A key finding in this research now know how to guard against security was that there is limited data on the way and privacy risks online; download content of all Australian public adults manage cyber safety, and we will in a legal and ethical way; research and libraries have started address this gap with further research in reference information; and manage their eSmart journey the coming year. reputation and relationships in cyberspace. To access our free cyber safety To find out more about eSmart libraries, visit awareness materials, visit www.esmartlibraries.org.au www.telstra.com/cybersafety Bigger Picture 2015 Sustainability Report 09 Connecting communities Everyone Connected Digital innovation Through the Telstra Foundation Social aged 9 to 11 years. Code Club Australia Innovation Grants Program we invest is designed to be inclusive of kids in ‘tech for good’ collaborations across who face barriers to thriving in STEM Australia and look to the power of education, and the sessions emphasise smart devices, social media, platforms fun, creativity, problem-solving skills and apps to champion social change and learning-through exploring. and community connection. Jackie Coates, Telstra Foundation In FY15, the Telstra Foundation approved General Manager says: “While teaching five social innovation grants to the value kids to code now may help solve a of $2.4 million. future skills shortage, coding also builds digital confidence and helps kids Our grants to ReachOut Australia, PROJECT Helping kids code their way understand the world around them.” ROCKIT, Cerebral Palsy Alliance, Code Club Australia and the Independent Living to a brighter future The Telstra Foundation is investing Centre NSW will provide support for mental It’s typically not until high school that $532,000 in Code Club Australia to raise health and disability programs, as well as Australian kids get the opportunity awareness about coding and to support initiatives to address cyber bullying and to participate in a concentrated ICT the delivery of an accelerated ‘train the the digital skills shortage. program as part of the curriculum. trainer’ program, targeting 500 teachers Studies show that by this stage, young and prioritising schools in low sociopeople – especially girls – are already economic areas. self-selecting out of STEM subjects Over 2,000 primary-school students (science, technology, engineering and are now learning to code via code clubs mathematics). around Australia. Forty per cent of Code Club Australia is changing that. these clubs are located in remote or Its mission is to give every child in low socio-economic areas, helping to Australia the chance to learn code, via ensure every child in Australia has the a network of after school clubs for kids chance to learn code. This year we also brought together 60 One team built a digital solution that will talented developers, designers and help clients of the MJD Foundation, marketers to participate in our second a Telstra Foundation partner that assists company ‘Hackathon’ – The Telstra Indigenous people living with MJD – Challenge Cup. With 48 hours on the clock a hereditary neuro-degenerative disease – Telstra’s Dividend and the mission to ‘accelerate advocacy’, to ‘bank’ their speech for use once they Reinvestment Plan 11 teams formed to rapidly prototype have lost the ability to speak. solutions to a variety of challenges crowdThis year we chose the Summer sourced from across the company. Foundation as the inaugural charity recipient of the residual from Telstra’s NEXT shareholder Dividend Reinvestment Plan (DRP). From September 2015, the DRP will enable shareholders to reinvest either all or part of their STEPS dividend payments into additional fully paid Telstra shares. The dividend amount will be used to acquire a whole EXTEND RECRUIT our digital literacy reach by In partnership with The Alannah and number of shares, usually leaving a implementing a Tech Savvy Seniors Madeline Foundation, launch eSmart week residual amount which is less than program in Queensland and recruit an additional 450 libraries to the price of one Telstra share. The DRP the initiative gives shareholders an option to donate ESTABLISH any residual amount to the Summer a research program to enhance our IMPLEMENT Foundation. understanding of digital inclusion engagement plans for social innovation The Summer Foundation will use the and exclusion in Australia grant projects to raise awareness of the donations in their work to leverage transforming role of technology, with a technology to help young people with CONDUCT focus on mental health and disability disability live more independently. Our research to better understand support for the Summer Foundation and promote effective, culturally reflects the Telstra Foundation’s focus appropriate and sustainable cyber on digital innovation projects that safety strategies for remote benefit vulnerable Australians. Indigenous populations Bigger Picture 2015 Sustainability Report 10 DISASTER RELIEF AND RECOVERY We assisted our customers wishing to check on family and friends affected by Cyclone Pam in Vanuatu and the Nepal earthquakes. approach progress everything from information about disaster relief packages, to free Wi-Fi hotspots, to Our technicians are often among the first to enter disaster-affected areas. Our Domestic disaster relief simply providing a place to charge phones for those with no power. More than 1,500 priorities include assisting emergency and This year we completed large-scale trials customers were served at these two stores. essential services organisations with their of LANES, the LTE Advanced Network for telecommunications requirements and Emergency Services, a ground-breaking Improvements to the Triple Zero (000) restoring services to our customers. technology developed by Telstra to provide service, which is operated by Telstra, mean emergency services groups with reliable that emergency services organisations Along with technical support, we provide wireless broadband communications in can now obtain automatic access to telecommunications services such as emergency situations. improved information about the location temporary internet and loan handsets to of people who dial Triple Zero (000) evacuation centres. We support affected LANES technology enables us to separate from a mobile phone. This enhanced residential and small business customers a portion of spectrum that 4G network information has the potential to save through relief assistance packages technology can operate on and offer this time in locating and reaching people in and make payphones in disaster areas to emergency services for their exclusive life-threatening emergency situations. free of charge. use in times of emergency. This means no We are working closely with emergency matter how many people are using the Where necessary, we also provide service organisations in each state and Telstra network, emergency services can temporary mobile base stations and territory to facilitate the rollout of location have a dedicated ‘lane’ to carry their critical repeaters to boost coverage for the information. communications in 4G coverage areas. emergency services. Satellite Cells on Wheels, or SatCOWs, provide satelliteFollowing the successful use of LANES International disaster relief assisted mobile coverage in remote areas, technology to support police operations This year we assisted our customers while trailer-mounted repeaters can pick during the G20 Summit in Brisbane in wishing to check on family and friends up the signal from the nearest Telstra November 2014, we were recognised with affected by Cyclone Pam in Vanuatu mobile tower and repeat it to improve the Broadband for All: Outstanding LTE and the Nepal earthquakes. reception in a specific location. Contribution award at the 2015 Mobile World Congress in Barcelona. For two and three weeks respectively, We provide emergency response leave we provided free voice calls and SMS for for our people who volunteer with the This year we provided assistance Telstra fixed line and post-paid mobile emergency services, and employees in packages worth $2.8 million to around customers, and reimbursed pre-paid disaster affected areas can use their 28,000 customers affected by the customers for all voice calls and SMS annual volunteer day to support their local following natural disasters: to Vanuatu and Nepal. Almost 7,000 communities in clean-up efforts. Telstra Severe storms and floods in the central customers benefited from the two also matches employee donations to region of New South Wales (April 2015) initiatives. emergency appeals. Tropical  Cyclone Olwyn in Carnarvon, In case of international disaster, we help NEXT Coral Bay, Exmouth and Denham in our customers check on friends and family Western Australia (March 2015) STEPS by providing free or reimbursed calls and Tropical Cyclone Marcia in Banana SMS to affected countries. Shire, Queensland (February 2015) Provided assistance Bushfires in the Adelaide Hills, South Australia (January 2015) CONTINUE packages worth to support our customers and the $2.8 million to around In cyclone-impacted Rockhampton and broader community in case of disaster 28,000 Yeppoon (Queensland) we set up Stores on Wheels to provide residents with customers affected by natural disasters Bigger Picture 2015 Sustainability Report 11 VOLUNTEERING AND GIVING approach communities recover from bushfires Employee giving with Habitat for Humanity; preparing and With over 36,000 direct employees During FY15, 5.8 per cent of our serving food to people in need with the across the Telstra Group, we have a employees made donations through Salvation Army or Sacred Heart Mission; unique opportunity to contribute to the Telstra’s payroll giving program, compared and planting trees, mulching and weeding communities in which we live and work. with 5.3 per cent for the previous year. with Landcare. We encourage our people to get involved Including Telstra’s matched contribution, Around 140 employees volunteered with in our core sustainability programs by we contributed $1.5 million to over 300 the Conservation Volunteers Australia supporting them to give One Day. One charities. Living Memorials program. The program Cause. One Dollar. For Everyone. Our commemorates the Anzac Centenary, ‘ONE’ employee call to action encourages marking 100 years since our involvement This year, our top 10 payroll giving our people to take up their One Day of in the First World War by creating 100 recipients were: volunteering leave, get behind One Cause living memorials across Australia and New that matters to them, and have every One World Vision Australia Zealand. Working in local communities Dollar they donate through payroll giving across Australia, projects range from the Salvation Army matched by Telstra. restoration of existing Avenues of Honour Cancer Council Australia In addition to providing paid volunteer and community memorials to the creation leave, we maintain a number of of new living memorials such as walkways, Australian Red Cross partnerships that provide individual and community or native gardens. RSPCA Australia team, skilled and unskilled volunteering Our Telstra International employees opportunities. We also provide emergency The Smith Family contributed an additional 765 volunteering response leave and paid blood donor leave days through events held in Hong Kong, the Beyond Blue to employees donating with the Australian UK, the US and other countries this year, Red Cross Blood Service. Maneki Neko Cat Rescue more than doubling their FY14 contribution. With the support of the Telstra Foundation, The team’s efforts were recognised for the Oxfam Australia we provide dollar-for-dollar matched third year in a row when Telstra International Médecins Sans Frontières payroll giving (up to $1,000 per employee was awarded the accolade of ‘Caring Australia per year and $750,000 overall), enabling Company of the Year 2014/15’ by The Hong employees to give to any registered Kong Council of Social Service. charity in Australia. This provides an incentive for our people to donate and Our reward and recognition program, Pay Payroll giving it Forward, continued this year with two Participation rate (%) the freedom to choose causes that they groups taking part in unique volunteering are passionate about. experiences in Cambodia and Gallipoli We also encourage our people to support (Turkey). Pay it Forward recognises our their local communities through the Telstra peoples’ appetite for getting involved in the Kids Fund. Collectively, our employees can community, and is designed to reward our apply for up to $1 million in grants each advocacy champions. year to fund the little things that make a big difference to kids’ lives. Volunteering on Telstra time Number of days progress 5.8 Employee volunteering This year, our employees contributed 7,225 FY13 FY14 FY15 volunteer days, up 41 per cent from 5,122 days in FY14, but short of our target of 10,000 days. This includes around 500 days of Telstra4,248 5,122 7,225 coordinated out-of-hours volunteering and represents a total value of $1.6 million. Employees volunteered their time to a variety of causes including helping FY13 FY14 FY15 Bigger Picture 2015 Sustainability Report 12 Connecting communities Volunteering and giving Social value through economic footprint Telstra creates significant social value through employment, investment and our supply chain. During FY15, the Telstra Group’s1 business activities: Supported around 39,000 jobs Paid $4.0 BILLION in salaries and wages Paid $3.7 BILLION Telstra Kids Fund grant recipients from Kalkaringi School (NT) in dividends to around Telstra Kids Fund NEXT 1.4 million shareholders In addition to our regular $1,200 ‘grassroots’ community grants, this STEPS Purchased year we provided 20 $10,000 grants to support digital inclusion projects $6.8 BILLION in regional and remote schools. DELIVER in goods and services from around 4,800 suppliers Telstra teams across regional Australia 10,000 volunteer days to the identified a selection of schools to receive community Contributed an estimated INCREASE $14.4 BILLION a larger ‘tech for good’ Telstra Kids grant, as part of the Telstra Foundation’s broader social innovation strategy. employee participation in matched to Australia’s gross payroll giving to 6 per cent In FY15, the Telstra Foundation distributed domestic product 682 Telstra Kids grants to the value of $994,000. Enabled by Telstra employees, Telstra makes a significant these grants supported a range of contribution to Australian federal, initiatives and projects across education, state and local government tax sports and recreation, arts and culture, revenues and during FY15: environment, health, disability and cultural diversity organisations. Paid Telstra Foundation Philippines $1.7 BILLION in Australian income tax2 and This year we officially launched the $0.3 billion in other Australian Telstra Foundation Philippines, our first federal, state and local international Foundation. The Telstra government taxes Foundation Philippines has been set up to develop projects to assist Filipino youth Collected and remitted $1.2 BILLION and promote education in the Philippines. Our work to establish the Telstra Foundation Philippines reflects our in net goods and services commitment to maintain and expand tax for the Australian federal government our presence in the region in the long term. Through the Foundation, employees of our strategic partners contributed 241 1 Includes Telstra Corporation and controlled entity full time employees and equivalents, contractors and staff volunteering days this year, largely to employed through agency arrangements in Australia and internationally local schools. 2 Income tax paid by Telstra Corporation Limited on behalf of the Australian tax consolidated group (Telstra Corporation Limited and its wholly owned Australian subsidiaries) Bigger Picture 2015 Sustainability Report 13 SUMMARY OF SOCIAL AND COMMUNITY INVESTMENT Social and community investment by focus Millions of dollars Amount Percentage Program Description invested of total Everyone Connected Customer and community digital inclusion programs 185.1 Digital access 179.8 86.7 Digital literacy and cyber safety 0.5 Digital innovation 4.8 Value of employee volunteering, matched payroll giving (regular and disaster Employee volunteering and giving 4.7 2.2 relief), fundraising and Telstra Kids Fund Ad hoc local community and high profile national sponsorships. Focus on art, Sponsorship health, sport, children and youth, general community assistance, economic 20.7 9.7 development and diversity Covers customer and community measures, including disaster relief credits Disaster relief 3.1 1.4 and free payphones in disaster affected areas Total 213.5 100 Note: Management costs associated with each program are included in the amount invested. Total differs due to rounding. Social and community investment by form of contribution Millions of dollars FY15 FY14 FY13 Revenue foregone Social contribution in the form of missed earnings to assist the community, 169.9 181.3 197.0 not for profit organisations or customers in time of need Cash 18.9 16.0 17.1 In-kind Contributions of products or services, valued at retail cost to Telstra, 11.8 5.9 5.4 to assist not for profit organisations Time 1.6 1.2 0.7 Contributions of employee time, during work hours, to assist not for profit organisations Management costs Costs borne by Telstra to deliver the suite of initiatives within our social and 9.4 8.8 9.0 community investment program Leverage Contributions by employees to a partner organisation or project as a result of 1.9 3.3 1.8 the active support of Telstra (e.g. payroll giving) Total 213.5 216.5 231.0 Social and community investment relative to domestic pre-tax profit 3.2% 3.5% 3.6% Percentage of domestic EBIT (pre-tax profit) Bigger Picture 2015 Sustainability Report 14 ABOUT OUR REPORTING Our business About our sustainability Assurance Telstra is Australia’s leading reporting Independent assurance supports our telecommunications and information Our sustainability reporting comprises commitment to transparency and services company, offering a full range the Bigger Picture 2015 Sustainability accountability. To provide confidence of communications services and Report, our sustainability website and a for our stakeholders in our reporting competing in all telecommunications concise summary of our approach and Ernst & Young provides limited markets. We employ over 36,000 people performance in our 2015 Annual Report. assurance, in accordance with the ISAE directly, facilitate access to more than Through our reporting we aim to provide 3000 standard, over specified data and 2,000 network points of presence across information on sustainability issues related performance disclosures in our the globe and have one of Australia’s relevant to our business and of importance 2015 Annual Report and Bigger Picture largest shareholder bases, with around to our stakeholders, as defined through our 2015 Sustainability Report, as well as 1.4 million shareholders. annual materiality process. The material an assessment of Telstra's application We have a diverse range of customers, topics addressed within each chapter of of the principle of materiality, as outlined including consumer, small business, this report are outlined in Sustainability in the Global Reporting Initiative large enterprise and government at Telstra, and on the context page of each G4 guidelines. organisations, and we strive to put them corresponding chapter. at the centre of everything we do. In We develop our sustainability reporting You can access Ernst & Young’s Australia, our services are offered through in accordance with industry and assurance statement at 371 Telstra-branded retail stores, 84 sustainability standards including www.telstra.com/sustainability/report/about Telstra Business Centres, 137 Telstra the United Nations Global Compact business and enterprise partners and are Communication on Progress and the Feedback distributed by over 18,700 retail points of Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4 Core We welcome your feedback on our presence managed by our partners. Sustainability Reporting Guidelines, and sustainability reporting, approach In Australia we provide approximately with reference to AccountAbility’s AA1000 and performance. Please email Tim 16.7 million retail mobile services, 6.0 Principles Standard 2008. O’Leary, Chief Sustainability Officer at million retail fixed voice services and 3.1 sustainability@team.telstra.com million retail fixed data services. Telstra’s For more information visit international businesses operate in 20 Stay in touch www.telstra.com/sustainability/report countries around the world and include twitter.com/telstra Telstra’s global networks and managed services business, as well as Telstra’s Scope facebook.com/telstra China-based search and advertising Our sustainability reporting covers the Sustainability Matters business, Autohome Inc. financial year 1 July 2014 to 30 June 2015 www.telstra.com/sustainability/subscribe (FY15) for Telstra Corporation Limited. All We understand our customers want controlled entities are excluded unless technology and content solutions otherwise stated. that are simple and easy to use – that’s why we have built networks As our international operations expand like Australia’s largest fully integrated we are committed to developing a internet protocol (IP) network and global framework for sustainability data Australia’s largest mobile network. collection and reporting. Starting with our most material operations overseas we will United Nations Global Compact continue to expand on the scope of our reporting over time. You will find the icon below throughout the Bigger Picture 2015 Sustainability Wherever possible and relevant under the Report. It indicates where we are G4 guidelines we have extended the scope providing information on our progress in of this report to include our operations implementing the ten principles of the across the Telstra Group, as well as a United Nations Global Compact. discussion of any broader impacts across our value chain. Information regarding the controlled entities in the Telstra Group can be found in Note 25 to the Financial Statements in the 2015 Annual Report. Bigger Picture 2015 Sustainability Report 15 Andrew Field Technician Team Leader BETTER ENVIRONMENTAL OUTCOMES ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP Bigger Picture 2015 Sustainability Report CONTENTS Click on page links Context 03 Operational excellence 07 04 Energy efficiency 07 Our Business travel 09 performance Renewable energy 09 Waste management 12 Electronic waste 13 Environment 05 Paper use 14 Water use 14 Strategy Environmental risks and compliance 15 Environmental Customer Value Proposition 06 Sustainable supply chain 16 About our reporting 18 Bigger Picture 2015 Sustainability Report CONTEXT As Australia’s leading telecommunications At Telstra, our long term ambition is to Material topics company we have a responsibility to become an Australian environmental manage our environmental impacts and leader. Along with managing our own Energy efficiency and carbon emissions 07-11 show we care about the environmental impacts, the extent of our network Resource use, waste and e-waste 12-14 issues that matter most to our customers, coverage and depth of our technical suppliers and the wider community. expertise provide an opportunity Sustainable procurement 16-17 for us to support government, We believe that information and ICT innovation enabling communications technology (ICT) has businesses and customers to reduce sustainability 06, 09, 17 the potential to unlock significant their energy consumption, leading to environmental benefits, and that the considerable cost savings and positive Renewable energy 09 ICT industry has a central role to play in environmental outcomes. Cloud computing 06 enabling a low-carbon future. Bigger Picture 2015 Sustainability Report 03 OUR PERFORMANCE Deployed ENTERPRISE WIDE environmental Over incidents reporting 35,000 system Reduced our Doubled the amount carbon emissions of e-waste we recycled, intensity by tonnes of carbon emissions diverting 27% 3,936 savings through project initiatives tonnes from landfill Diverted 15.6 tonnes of old mobile phones and accessories from landfill, exceeding our target of 14 tonnes Performance Progress on FY15 commitments Result More info Reduce our carbon emissions intensity by 55 per cent by FY17, against a baseline year of FY14 Page 07 0% Achieved Deliver an enterprise e-waste management strategy Page 13 Release environmental standards to guide suppliers Page 17 operating in key procurement categories Quantify the environmental benefits of cloud 100% In progress Page 06 computing for our customers Achieved In progress Not achieved 0% Not achieved Bigger Picture 2015 Sustainability Report 04 ENVIRONMENT STRATEGY We are working to minimise our environmental impacts, and help our suppliers and customers to do the same. approach We have three-year action plans in Our Environment Strategy provides a place across each of our strategic focus Towards a SMARTer 2030 areas. These are helping us to save Through our membership with the Global clear framework for addressing the issues operating costs, manage environmental e-Sustainability Initiative (GeSI) we’re most important to our company and our engaging with our global peers to conduct risks and support our growth into new stakeholders, right across our value chain. research into the role ICT can play in and emerging markets. enabling low-carbon growth. Introduced in FY14, our strategy is aligned to Telstra’s purpose and values, and is Stakeholder This year we participated in the development of a new GeSI study, SMARTer aimed at minimising our most material environmental impacts across three engagement is critical 2030: ICT Solutions for 21st Century Challenges. Released in June 2015, the strategic focus areas: to the success of our study quantifies the positive social, Environment Strategy. economic and environmental benefits ICT can deliver across eight sectors by 2030.  nvironmental Customer E Australia was selected as one of nine Value Proposition (ECVP) – We participate in industry forums countries for local analysis. quantifying and communicating committed to researching and measuring The SMARTer 2030 report found that ICT how our products and services the sustainability risks and opportunities can reduce global carbon emissions by of ICT products and services, and 20 per cent by 2030 – effectively reducing can enable our customers to them to 2015 levels. Technologies such as reduce their environmental encourage our people to get involved, cloud computing, broadband internet, smart impacts, particularly energy sharing information and ideas across our devices and Wi-Fi sensors all contribute to use and carbon emissions business. providing positive sustainability benefits in sectors such as manufacturing, buildings In order to embed environmental principles  perational Excellence – O and education. and minimise business risks across our actively identifying and In Australia, the report identified multiple operations, accountability for delivery of minimising material ways ICT can be used to generate our Environment Strategy is shared across substantial benefits. For example, it environmental impacts Telstra. Progress against the strategy estimates that by 2030, an additional and operating costs is overseen by the Chief Sustainability seven million Australians could benefit  ustainable Supply Chain – S Officer and relevant Business Unit project from e-health services, based on projected working with and influencing sponsors, and is reported to the Board rates of adoption, which will allow doctors and patients to save time and resources. In suppliers to manage and reduce twice a year. agriculture, sensor-based field equipment the environmental and social coupled with data analytics can potentially impacts of their operations and save almost 650 billion litres of water each of the products and services year by 2030. they provide to Telstra. We will engage our stakeholders on the report’s findings and associated opportunities in the coming year. To view the study, visit smarter2030.gesi.org Bigger Picture 2015 Sustainability Report 05 ENVIRONMENTAL CUSTOMER VALUE PROPOSITION There is a compelling business case for using ICT to reduce energy and carbon emissions, as well as operating costs. approach Through our ECVP we focus on helping our Adding value for our Reviewing IT hardware configuration at NAB’s data centres to identify opportunities customers transition to a lower carbon customers to save space, power and infrastructure future using our products and services. In FY15 we implemented the first year of costs Our activities include: a targeted Energy Efficiency Plan (EEP) to assist NAB, one of our enterprise customers, Updating our equipment disposal Communicating the environmental to reduce their environmental impacts using procedures to improve deployment rates benefits of ICT: Articulating the our products and services. and reduce the number of items not being utilised. environmental benefits of the products The EEP’s purpose is to provide a framework and services we sell for driving energy efficiency opportunities We also developed a baseline carbon and environmental improvements between footprint to estimate the energy use Green ICT strategies: Working with our and associated carbon emissions from NAB and Telstra. largest customers to develop strategies for Telstra-supplied equipment on NAB’s Customer Delivery Executive David Snapp premises. We recalculate this footprint reducing their energy and carbon manages Telstra’s relationship with NAB and each quarter, to gain insight into any emissions through the use of ICT is encouraged by the progress made. environmental improvements resulting Environmental innovation for new “We’re committed to helping our customers from our project work. products and services: Developing new reduce their environmental footprint, and Mark Welch, Manager Cross Functional products and services with environmental working with NAB has demonstrated the Services at NAB says the partnership has impact we can have when we work together.” presented a great opportunity for NAB. benefits An Energy Efficiency Working Group “The EEP is helping us to meet our goal with Green product design and comprising representatives from both regards to energy reduction. It’s been great development: Embedding environmental Telstra and NAB was formed to drive EEP to see one of our major suppliers taking considerations into existing product design activity. The group meets on a monthly basis such a proactive approach to helping us and development processes. to track progress and plan new work. In achieve our efficiency targets.” FY15, projects included: We’ll continue to work closely with NAB to progress Updating process documents with further implement programs for reducing energy efficiency criteria to guide design environmental impacts and support its In FY15, we introduced a Green ICT and delivery of our products and services internal business case for utilising ICT to Consulting service for our enterprise lower energy and carbon emissions. customers, designed to help identify opportunities to reduce their carbon emissions and electricity costs. that the ICT sector is in an ideal position environmental offering for customers, and to help government, business and use it to drive our approach to sustainable As part of this service we developed a consumers minimise their energy product design and innovation. carbon calculator to assist our customers consumption and identified ‘clean cloud’ with estimating emissions from Telstraas a carbon reduction opportunity. provided equipment on their premises. We are committed to working with our NEXT STEPS We also undertook work to quantify the customers to build their understanding environmental impacts and benefits to our of the role ICT can play in enabling customers of Telstra’s cloud computing low-carbon growth. During the year, we offerings. To be released in FY16, this work will help our customers estimate conducted market research with global peers into the specific environmental REPORT the benefits of moving their IT systems to drivers and expectations across a number on the environmental the cloud and builds upon the findings of impacts and benefits of industry sectors. In FY16, we will embed our Connecting with a Low-Carbon Future the findings of our research into our of cloud computing report. Released in 2014, this report found Bigger Picture 2015 Sustainability Report 06 OPERATIONAL EXCELLENCE While data loads carried over our network approach increased by 36 per cent in FY15, total Collectively, energy Through our focus on operational carbon emissions (Scope 1, 2 and 3) efficiency initiatives excellence we aim to address the material environmental risks and opportunities decreased by 1.3 per cent, as a result have reduced carbon both of our energy efficiency initiatives across Telstra’s operations. These include: and a reduction in the emission factors emissions by 35,180 Energy efficiency: Improve the energy published by the Australian Federal tCO2e and saved more efficiency of our network buildings, data Government for the reporting period.1 than 33, 239 MWh of centres, office buildings, network architecture and ICT equipment Emissions factors, used to convert Telstra’s electricity in FY15. electricity consumption into emissions, Renewable energy: Investigate decreased in FY15 due to changes in This year we completed the fourth year opportunities for using renewable energy Australia’s electricity generation mix, of our $41.3 million capital investment to further reduce emissions including increased generation from program, aimed at making our facilities Electronic waste (e-waste): Minimise natural gas and renewable energy sources. more energy and carbon efficient. As part e-waste by maximising opportunities Changes in emissions factors led to a of this program we invested $6 million and to reuse and recycle, while ensuring decrease in our reported emissions of implemented more than 540 energy and responsible disposal practices approximately 41,625 tCO2e. carbon reduction projects that delivered a collective saving of 9,000MWh. Initiatives Environmental risks and compliance: Total carbon emissions and included installing high efficiency fans Implement risk-based environmental and chillers, free-air cooling and lighting management systems to maintain our emissions intensity control systems.2 licence to operate and provide for continued performance improvement. Along with these initiatives, our FY15 0.83 reductions can be partly attributed to a program of work decommissioning progress 0.58 redundant equipment across a number Energy efficiency of network sites, which reduced electricity consumption by approximately Our largest environmental impact remains 0.42 10,000MWh. While Telstra’s stationary the carbon emissions associated with the electricity use increased by 1.1 per cent 1,633,712 1,592,3761 1,571,066 energy used in our network. In FY15, our this year, we would have seen an increase network energy use represented 87 per of 3.4 per cent if our energy reduction cent of our total carbon emissions (Scope program hadn’t been in place. 1, 2 and 3). FY13 FY14 FY15 In FY14 we set a long term target to reduce our carbon emissions per terabyte of data  otal emissions (Scope 1, 2 and 3) T used (emissions intensity) by 55 per cent tCO2e over the three year period from FY15 to  missions intensity E FY17, from a baseline year of FY14. This tCO2e/TB year there has been a 27 per cent decrease 1 Emissions arising from electricity and liquid/gas fuels are calculated using the Australian Commonwealth Government’s in our emissions intensity, which puts us on Notes: 1 – The FY14 figure in this graph was incorrectly labelled approved guidelines, Technical Guidelines for the Estimation of Greenhouse Gas Emissions by Facilities in Australia and the track to meet our FY17 target. in our FY14 report as 1,592,388, instead of 1,592,376. National Greenhouse Account Factors. 2 Free cooling uses naturally low external air temperatures to assist in chilling water, which can then be used in air conditioning systems. Bigger Picture 2015 Sustainability Report 07 Environmental stewardship Operational excellence One of our key focus areas under the This technology makes the site more program is improving air-conditioning efficient to operate than our existing data efficiency. Air-conditioning represents a centres. As more of our cloud services significant component of our site energy are transitioned to the facility in FY16, we use, and requires frequent monitoring and will see even further improvements to its optimisation to ensure it continues energy efficiency. to operate efficiently. By undertaking We also reviewed the energy efficiency regular maintenance of our airpotential of our ICT equipment. We applied conditioning systems, targeting energy industry recognised criteria to assess efficiency improvements, we reduced the energy efficiency and environmental our energy consumption by around benefits of upgrading our technology, 7,300MWh in FY15. which included a review of next generation storage equipment, such as solid state Over 35,000 tonnes storage devices, for our data centres. We of carbon emissions will set performance improvement targets for FY16 based on this information. savings through project Brian Hennessy Our commercial building portfolio, which General Manager initiatives includes office buildings, warehouses, Energy and Greenhouse depots and retail stores, accounts for Management We also began implementing a program around six per cent of Telstra’s electricity to improve the operating efficiency of our “Working with our vendors, we have use. To improve energy efficiency across rectifiers and reduce power consumption. developed a more cost-effective this portfolio we upgraded lights and after Rectifiers convert AC mains power to approach to installing the latest high hours lighting controls across several of efficiency rectifiers into a range of the DC power that is required to run our our office buildings and warehouses this older units. We will continue to work telecommunications equipment and year. Lighting typically accounts for 30-40 with them to increase the number of battery back-up systems. per cent of the electricity used in high rise rectifier types we can retrofit using this Working with our vendors, we have commercial buildings, and these initiatives new approach, further improving the developed an innovative solution that will reduce Telstra’s commercial electricity viability and scale of rectifier upgrades. enables us to quickly and easily install use by two percent, or approximately This range of solutions will form an more efficient rectifiers by re-using 1,400MWh which is equivalent to the important component of our energy existing equipment. Rather than replacing electricity required to power around 255 efficiency program in the coming years.” the entire power system, this solution average Australian homes.3 reuses existing chassis units and cabling Electricity consumption increased in FY15 Our stationary diesel and ethanol use have by installing special adaptor shelves, which by 1.1 per cent. This increase is mainly also increased this year, by 31 and 26 per the new rectifier units can be plugged due to our new data centre in Clayton, cent respectively. The observed increase in into. This significantly reduces installation Victoria coming on line, as well as growth diesel is due to a reallocation of fuel types time and costs, and minimises e-waste. in wireless services, with the continued within our system. A number of generator We invested $3.5 million in this program in expansion of our 4G network. 0.3 per cent sets were incorrectly listed as LPG, FY15, and replaced 314 systems, resulting of this increase is due to improvements rather than diesel in FY14. This has been in annual savings of 5,000MWh. in the way we capture our energy corrected in FY15, which also accounts Another key focus is improving the energy consumption data. This year we uncovered for our decrease in LPG fuel use. Our use efficiency of data centres, commercial additional data for an electricity account of ethanol blend fuel (E10 and E85) in buildings and ICT equipment. In November not previously included in our calculations. stationary applications has increased due 2014 we opened our newest data centre We manage over 26,000 electricity to these biofuels becoming more widely in Clayton, Victoria. Its design incorporates accounts and are continually working available at a number of major petrol a free-air cooling system, which can be to ensure we accurately capture data station chains. used to supplement air-conditioning for all of them. around 65 per cent of the time. 3 The average Australian household daily electricity usage is taken as being 15 kWh per day. Bigger Picture 2015 Sustainability Report 08 Environmental stewardship Operational excellence Gavin, Anthony and Dhanesh, Telstra Operations Business travel They enable us to provide back-up power to sites for several days, which Our direct (Scope 1) emissions decreased is particularly useful in areas prone to in FY15, largely due to a change in the natural disaster. During disaster events, structure and increased fuel efficiency emergency responders rely heavily on across Telstra’s fleet. telecommunications, so maintaining While use of diesel and LPG for transport electricity supply to our infrastructure decreased by 2.3 per cent and 42.9 per is vital. cent respectively, the use of petrol and ethanol blend fuel both increased this year. As was the case in FY14, these shifts are 10,255 Telstra sites largely due to LPG station wagon vehicles around Australia have being phased out of our fleet, as they are solar panels installed, no longer available for purchase. providing power to Emissions from air travel increased due to growing rates of domestic and telecommunications international travel. The number of equipment in rural and Rafiq Ali domestic and international flights remote locations without Renewable Energy taken increased by 18 and 33 per cent respectively. This increase is partly due mains power. Team Lead to an increase in acquisitions across This year we trialled a new type of fuel “We have network sites in some of the Telstra Group. In line with our longcell that uses solar and wind energy the most remote corners of Australia, term growth agenda, we acquired 18 new to provide electricity to small-scale and it’s not always possible to reach businesses this year, and invested in a telecommunications sites. Hydrogen is them at short notice. By using fuel further nine through Telstra Ventures both generated from water held onsite using cell technology, we’ve increased the in Australia and overseas. renewable energy, before being stored and autonomy of our sites from hours to days, meaning more reliable service for used to generate power in the event of a Renewable energy our customers. Better yet, fuel cells are mains power outage. In addition to being a more environmentally friendly option This year we continued to investigate more efficient than diesel generators, fuel than using traditional diesel generators, opportunities to use renewable cells replace the use of batteries on site, so we’re really excited about what this energy to power our network, expanding which require frequent substitution and technology could do for us.” the use of solar and wind for energy careful disposal. generation as well as integrated fuel We also explored the use of methanol cells for energy storage. based fuel cells. Replacing diesel Using renewable energy sources in generators, this type of fuel cell is combination with fuel cells not only providing back-up power to ten of our reduces our emissions, it also improves the mobile phone base stations. Along with reliability of our network’s power supply. being up to 60 per cent more efficient than diesel generators, there is the potential Fuel cells have become part of for Telstra to explore using methanol Telstra’s standard solution for sites produced by renewable biogas, when it that require longer periods of back-up becomes commercially available to us. electricity. Bigger Picture 2015 Sustainability Report 09 Environmental stewardship Operational excellence Carbon emissions1 Total carbon emissions by source Key performance indicators Total (Scope 1, 2, and 3) tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent (tCO2e) % change FY15 FY14 FY13 FY14% change FY152 FY15 FY14 FY13 FY14Scope 1 emissions3 FY151 52,003 52,537 53,645 -1.0 tCO2e Stationary energy Scope 2 emissions4 1,298,083 1,294,248 1,331,148 +0.3 Electricity2 1,480,848 1,509,136 1,544,466 -1.9 tCO2e Scope 3 emissions5 Natural gas 1,819 1,913 1,366 -4.9 220,981 245,592 248,918 -10.0 tCO2e Diesel 5,594 4,281 4,424 +30.7 Total emissions (Scope 1, 2 and 3)6 1,571,066 1,592,376 1,633,712 -1.3 LPG 25 128 83 -80.7 tCO2e Ethanol <1 <1 <1 Terabytes 3,714,025 2,738,662 1,967,686 +34.2 TB Petrol 283 291 293 -2.9 Emissions intensity 0.42 0.58 0.83 -26.5 Transport fuels tCO2e/TB Network related Diesel 39,628 40,555 41,292 -2.3 emissions7 87.2 86.0 86.0 1.4 Petrol 6,089 4,939 4,148 +23.3 Percentage of total emissions LPG 2,585 4,522 6,265 -42.8 Annualised emissions savings resulting from Ethanol3 10.3 0.5 0.36 +1,978.9 35,180 36,852 72,724 -4.1 project initiatives tCO2e/yr Waste 5,556 5,984 7,047 -7.1 Notes: 1 – Reported emissions reflect annualised data for the reporting year and are based on Notes: 1 – Due to rounding, the reported percentage change may differ from that calculated using actual data wherever possible. Where metered or invoiced data was not available at 30 June 2015, the numbers shown. 2 – Electricity consumption from our unmetered HFC network includes Foxtel estimates have been calculated based on prior actual consumption, taking into account seasonal infrastructure. 3 – Year on year our ethanol use increased from half a tonne to 10.3 tonnes, resulting variations, qualified assumptions and/or known business activity variations. 2 – Due to rounding, in a very large percentage change. the reported percentage change may differ from that calculated using the numbers shown. 3 – Emission sources include: Scope 1 transport fuels and stationary energy use, excluding electricity. 4 – Emissions from electricity consumption. Electricity consumption from our unmetered hybrid fibre coaxial (HFC) network includes Foxtel infrastructure. 5 – Emission sources include: Change in number of flights by type1 electricity transmission losses, fuel extraction and refining, air travel and waste disposal. 6 Sum of ‘Scope 1, 2 and 3’ differs to ’total emissions’ due to rounding. 7 – Network category % change in FY15 includes all network-related sites including unmetered sites and data centre services hosted at Telstra exchanges. This consists of all Scope 1, 2 & 3 emissions allocated to the Telstra network, based on premises, vehicle or activity end use. Air travel emissions by source Tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent (tCO2e) 18 33 21 % change FY15 FY14 FY13 FY14Domestic flights FY15 International flights Air travel1 28,628 20,627 24,328 +38.8 Overall Notes: 1 – This graph has been updated to reflect the number of domestic and international flights taken in FY15. This table was previously reported as a year-on-year percentage change in emissions Notes: 1 – Total kilometres travelled: 119,209,019 (FY15); 94,890,792 (FY14); by flight type (short, medium and long haul). 92,007,373 (FY13) Bigger Picture 2015 Sustainability Report 10 Environmental stewardship Operational excellence Energy consumption by source Gigajoules (GJ) % change FY14Key performance indicators FY15 FY14 FY13 FY151 Total energy use2 (stationary + transport) 6,009,922 5,962,543 5,988,603 +0.8 Stationary energy (total) 5,353,838 5,283,608 5,284,560 +1.3 Electricity3 5,214,988 5,159,497 5,170,889 +1.1 Solar energy (generated by Telstra)4 27,795 27,255 26,208 +2.0 Natural gas 31,982 33,623 22,994 -4.9 Diesel 74,781 57,232 59,145 +30.7 LPG 380 1,975 1,274 -80.8 Petrol 3,911 4,026 4,049 -2.9 Ethanol 0.8 0.6 0.7 +25.7 Transport fuels 656,084 678,935 704,043 -3.4 (total) Diesel 527,402 539,961 549,758 -2.3 Petrol 83,075 68,381 57,296 +21.5 Ethanol 6,013 1,242 904 +384.1 LPG 39,594 69,350 96,085 -42.9 Annualised network energy savings resulting from project 114,593 127,679 228,067 -10.2 initiatives Annualised commercial energy savings resulting from 5,065 76 1,462 +6,549.6 project initiatives Notes: 1 – Due to rounding, the reported percentage change may differ from that calculated using the numbers shown. 2 – Sum of ‘stationary energy’ and ‘transport energy’ differs to ‘total energy use’ due to rounding. Consistent with previous reporting periods stationary energy use and transport energy respectively contribute 89 per cent and 11 per cent of overall use. 3 – Electricity consumption as part of our unmetered HFC network includes Foxtel infrastructure. 4 – Telstra has approximately 10,255 sites with solar panels installed, providing power to telecommunications equipment in rural and remote locations where the power grid does not reach. The number of Telstra sites with solar panels installed was misstated in FY14 as 13,850 sites. 5 – More petrol was used this year as LPG vehicles exited our fleet and were replaced with petrol variants. 6 – Ethanol blend fuels (E10 and E85) have become more widely available and are now offered as the default fuel at major service station chains. 7 – The large increase in annualised commercial energy savings this year is a result of an expanded program of works. Bigger Picture 2015 Sustainability Report 11 Environmental stewardship Operational excellence Waste management Waste and recycling1 The amount of waste we generate and Tonnes (t) manage each year is dependent on the % change type and timing of specific projects FY15 FY14 FY13 FY14undertaken, making it difficult to FY152 compare performance year-on-year. Total waste3 17,033 19,520 24,929 -12.7 In FY15, total waste produced decreased by 13 per cent, primarily as a result Waste recycled 11,982 14,080 18,523 -14.9 of a reduction in construction and demolition activities. Waste to landfill 5,051 5,440 6,406 -7.1 We also worked closely with our Recycling rate (%)4 70.3 72.1 74.3 -2.5 waste service providers to divert more construction and demolition waste from Total e-waste5 3,940 1,993 2,070 +97.7 landfill, and to improve the accuracy of our general waste data. E-waste recycled 3,936 1,989 2,061 +97.8 Our overall recycling rate decreased by Mobile phones recycled6 15.6 15.3 14.0 +1.7 2.5 per cent this year, from 72 to 70 per cent. This change is primarily due to the Other e-waste recycled 3,920 1,974 2,047 +98.6 end of the national copper replacement program, which last year accounted for 63 E-waste to landfill 4.2 3.9 8.5 +8.2 per cent of our recycled waste. Outside of this program we diverted 11,982 tonnes of waste from landfill this year. Notes: 1 – This table has been updated to more clearly convey the overall amounts of waste produced and the division between waste recycled and waste to landfill. As such some figures from prior years have been restated. 2 – Due to rounding, the reported totals and percentage change may differ from that calculated using the numbers shown. 3 – FY15 Total waste includes 104 tonnes of hazardous waste and 4,947 tonnes of non-hazardous waste. Asbestos containing materials are included in our hazardous waste definition for FY15. Hazardous wastes are disposed to prescribed landfill. Total waste does not include waste disposed of at sites managed by third parties. 4 – Recycling rate is the amount of waste recycled as a percentage of total waste produced. 5 – E-waste is a subset of total waste. 6 – Option to return phones to MobileMuster by ‘pre-paid satchel’ did not exist prior to FY14. Bigger Picture 2015 Sustainability Report 12 Environmental stewardship Operational excellence We are committed to minimising e-waste by maximising opportunities to reuse and recycle end-of-life equipment. Electronic waste Longer term, we will continue to pursue a product stewardship approach that What is e-waste? Australia is one of the highest per capita recognises that manufacturers, importers, producers of electronic waste (e-waste) retailers, governments and consumers in the world. As a population, we generate have shared responsibility for the E-waste is a term used to cover specific more than 25 kilograms of e-waste per environmental impacts of electronic items of electrical and electronic person each year.4 products throughout their full life cycles. equipment, and their parts, that We’ve already put a number of initiatives have been discarded by the owner as We’ve demonstrated responsible action waste without the intention of re-use. in place that respond to the e-waste on electronics stewardship though Telstra’s e-waste includes: information challenge. These include our support MobileMuster for over 15 years. We helped technology and telecommunications for MobileMuster, establishing internal establish MobileMuster, Australia’s only equipment; telecommunication carrier e-waste recycling infrastructure at key government-accredited voluntary mobile and commercial equipment; consumer locations, and offering business and retail phone recycling program, in partnership communications devices and lighting customers mobile device reuse, trade-in with industry manufacturers, carriers and equipment. and recycling programs. partners. In 2014 41.8 million In FY15 we diverted 15.6 tonnes of mobile We also sought to engage employees in phones and accessories from landfill tonnes of electronic electronics removal and recycling through through the MobileMuster program, our annual e-waste collection campaign. waste was generated exceeding our target of 14 tonnes. Through During National Recycling Week in around the world, and this activity, we avoided 125 tonnes of November 2014 we collected 21 tonnes CO2e, or the equivalent of planting 758 less than a sixth was of e-waste across 29 corporate offices trees. We also continued to support Keep and 38 exchange buildings. recycled.5 Australia Beautiful by donating $10,000 to help improve and promote mobile In 2014 we committed to developing phone recycling within remote Australian a more strategic approach to e-waste communities. management for Telstra. We partnered with the University of Technology, Sydney Overall during FY15 we collected 3,940 to establish an external advisory tonnes of e-waste, doubling our FY14 committee, and are now preparing an collection volume. This increase is mainly Electronics Reuse and Recycling Strategy. due to scheduled end-of-life battery replacements at our network sites. The short-term focus of this strategy is 4 Global e-waste systems, Insights for Australia from other to harness the benefits of electronics developed countries, The Economist Intelligence Unit, 2014, page 4 reuse and recycling, while ensuring 5 Baldé, C.P., Wang, F., Kuehr, R., Huisman, J. (2015), The global responsible disposal practices. e-waste monitor – 2014, United Nations University, IAS – SCYCLE, Bonn, Germany Bigger Picture 2015 Sustainability Report 13 Environmental stewardship Operational excellence Paper use In overall terms, our paper consumption decreased by 0.6 per cent in FY15. While billing paper use decreased by 11.2 per cent (as more customers opted for online bills) and office paper use decreased by 23.6 per cent (as a result of the continued rollout of our ‘follow-me’ printing initiative across our corporate offices), we saw a 21.8 per cent spike in the use of printing paper. This increase was due to a one off print run undertaken in October 2014 to produce materials for our shareholders regarding our share buyback offer. Printing these materials was an ASIC statutory requirement and we worked with the regulator to minimise this impact, securing permission not to provide hardcopies to any shareholders who had previously opted in to receive electronic communications from Telstra. This meant we were only required to print 900,000 of a possible 1.4 million packs. Office, billing and printing paper This year we also trialled using lower Tonnes (t) grams per square metre (gsm) billing % change paper, which will be introduced across FY15 FY14 FY13 FY14Telstra in early FY16. By switching to FY151 85gsm paper, down from 92gsm we will save 2,100 trees and close to $400,000 Total 2,707 2,723 3,215 -0.6 each year. Office paper2 226 296 336 -23.6 Water use In FY15, we used 1,083 megalitres (ML) Printing paper 1,199 984 1,180 +21.8 of water, equivalent to 433 Olympicsized swimming pools,6 in our Billing paper 1,281 1,443 1,699 -11.2 network exchanges, data centres and corporate offices. Notes: 1 – Due to rounding, the reported percentage change may differ from that calculated using the numbers shown. 2 – Sensis office paper is included in the FY14 figure only, for the period of 1 This is an 11 per cent increase on FY14 July 2013 28 February 2014, when Sensis was sold. and continues the upward trend in water usage observed over the last four years. Water This is due to more water being used in our cooling systems in response to increasing % change electricity consumption, especially at our FY15 FY14 FY13 FY14FY15 largest network sites. Wastewater disposal decreased by 64 per cent, as less water Water consumption1 (ML) 1,083 975 953 +11.1 was used in the removal and remediation of asbestos containing telecommunication Wastewater2 (kL) 3,057 8,582 1,740 -64.4 pits and ducts. 6 Where one Olympic sized Swimming Pool contains 2.5 million Notes: 1 – This metric does not include water consumption from sites where water is paid for by litres of water. third parties 2 – Wastewater includes pit pump outs and asbestos pit remediation. Bigger Picture 2015 Sustainability Report 14 Environmental stewardship Operational excellence We’re committed to ensuring compliance with our Environment Policy and continually achieving our stated policy commitments. Telstra procedures further require that the relevant governmental authorities are notified of any environmental incidents (where applicable) in compliance with statutory requirements. Telstra has not been prosecuted for, or convicted of, any significant breaches of environmental regulation during the financial year. On 6 July 2015, Telstra received an infringement notice penalty of $8,538 for contravention of the Environmental Protection Act 1994 (Qld) as a result of a diesel spill from a fuel storage tank at a Telstra site in Cape Kimberley that occurred in April 2015. Telstra subsequently undertook clean-up work to remediate the site. Environmental risks and and environmental incidents, HIRO compliance (Hazard Incident Reporting Online). This NEXT STEPS tool provides us with improved oversight Telstra performs a range of business of environmental incidents and enables activities which, by virtue of their nature, timely corrective and preventative actions scale and geographical locations, have to be implemented, to avoid issues inherent environmental challenges. reoccurring. LAUNCH We’re committed to ensuring compliance We also updated Telstra’s annual electronics reuse and with our Environment Policy and mandatory refresher compliance training recycling strategy continually achieving our stated module – Business Essentials II – to policy commitments. Having robust include information on our Environment EXTEND environmental management systems in place is key to achieving this. Strategy, environment management ISO 140012004 systems and frameworks, and compliance. certification of Environmental management systems have Approximately 62,000 people, including existed within Telstra for over 15 years. Our industry partners who work closely with our environmental work this year has involved developing and Telstra, completed this training in FY15. management systems realigning some of our corporate systems Telstra, as a minimum, seeks to to Telstra’s corporate to enable us to more effectively deploy be compliant with all applicable business units new initiatives, communicate important environmental laws and regulatory information, manage change, assess and prioritise risks, motivate and engage permissions relevant to its operations. REDUCE employees and stakeholders, as well as Where instances of non-compliance our carbon emissions may occur, Telstra has procedures build workforce competency. intensity by 55 per cent requiring that internal investigations As part of our continuous improvement are conducted to determine the cause by FY17, against a baseline agenda we introduced a new online tool of the non-compliance and to ensure year of FY14 for reporting work-related health, safety that any risk of recurrence is minimised. Bigger Picture 2015 Sustainability Report 15 SUSTAINABLE SUPPLY CHAIN This year the Telstra Group purchased $6.8 billion in goods and services from 4,800 suppliers. progress In FY15 we continued to work with our suppliers to embed our sustainable procurement principles within their operations. Following the identification of our high risk suppliers in FY14, we have focused on refining our processes for identifying, assessing and treating risk within our supply chain. We developed a sustainability risk evaluation framework, underpinned by a sustainability risk questionnaire, to assess suppliers’ compliance with our Code of Conduct. We are committed to engaging and influencing our suppliers to minimise the approach Pollution prevention: Ensuring environmental and Telstra’s approach to sustainable appropriate materials are used, and social impacts of the manufacturing and processing take place procurement has been developed to in a way that protects human health and products and services encompass both social and environmental considerations. the environment. they deliver to us. The key principles of our approach to Within our Environment Strategy, we We sent the questionnaire to all 24 high sustainable supply chain management embrace the following key principles: risk suppliers in two waves. From the first are reflected within our Supplier Code of Responsible sourcing: Ensuring wave of nine suppliers we have received Conduct, as well as other key procurement products and services are sourced and eight responses to date. We expect to policies and processes, such as the Master produced under acceptable environmental, receive the ninth response, as well as 15 Sourcing Agreement we have in place with social and ethical standards second wave responses in early FY16. our suppliers of mobile handsets, tablets Maximising resource efficiency: and data devices. Subsequent engagement processes are Maximising use of materials with reused underway with four suppliers, and we and recycled content, minimising will engage with all remaining suppliers packaging and designing products that can in FY16. We are taking a thorough, timebe either reused or recycled intensive approach to engagement, with the aim of building strong supplier Minimising embodied carbon and relationships that will enable us to manage operational energy use: Maximising sustainability risks and opportunities for resource and energy efficiency in the mutual benefit. manufacturing and supply process in order to minimise environmental impacts Bigger Picture 2015 Sustainability Report 16 Environmental stewardship Sustainable supply chain We are engaging and influencing our suppliers to minimise the environmental and social impacts of the products and services they deliver to us. Cyber Safety Emilio Romeo Director, Telstra Customer Unit Ericsson “We know that energy efficiency is a key priority for the telecommunications We also worked with suppliers of our We are currently scoping a program of industry. The radio access network network and data centre equipment, work for auditing suppliers found not to (RAN) is one of the largest consumers including Hewlett Packard (HP) and be in compliance with the Supplier Code of energy in a mobile network, and is Ericsson to explore opportunities to of Conduct. Pending the full roll-out of therefore an important focus area for energy-efficiency improvements. improve the energy efficiency of the the program, on-site audits are conducted products they supply. HP identified an on a case by case basis by an independent We are working closely with Telstra to third party. find opportunities to manage their RAN opportunity to achieve energy savings operations dynamically. This means using a new, more efficient power supply that equipment is only powered on technology, which uses 35 per cent less For more information, please see the when it's needed, rather than around energy than the previous model. This Responsible business chapter of this the clock. By doing this, we're helping technology is now being used across our sustainability report. Telstra achieve energy efficiency network. through reduced electricity use, while still delivering superior network NEXT To extend this work to a broader base of performance and customer service.” our network and data centre equipment providers, we developed a set of environmental standards this year, aimed STEPS at helping our suppliers to consider and improve the energy efficiency of their INTRODUCE products and services. Currently in energy efficiency metrics review, this program of work will be implemented within relevant procurement and targets for our suppliers categories in FY16. of selected categories of network equipment Bigger Picture 2015 Sustainability Report 17 ABOUT OUR REPORTING Our business About our sustainability Information regarding the controlled entities in the Telstra Group can be found in Note Telstra is Australia’s leading reporting 25 to the Financial Statements in the 2015 telecommunications and information Our sustainability reporting comprises Annual Report. services company, offering a full range the Bigger Picture 2015 Sustainability of communications services and Report, our sustainability website and a competing in all telecommunications Assurance concise summary of our approach and markets. We employ over 36,000 people performance in our 2015 Annual Report. Independent assurance supports our directly, facilitate access to more than Through our reporting we aim to provide commitment to transparency and 2,000 network points of presence across information on sustainability issues accountability. To provide confidence the globe and have one of Australia’s relevant to our business and of importance for our stakeholders in our reporting largest shareholder bases, with around to our stakeholders, as defined through our Ernst & Young provides limited 1.4 million shareholders. annual materiality process. The material assurance, in accordance with the ISAE topics addressed within each chapter of 3000 standard, over specified data and We have a diverse range of customers, this report are outlined in Sustainability related performance disclosures in our including consumer, small business, at Telstra, and on the context page of each 2015 Annual Report and Bigger Picture large enterprise and government corresponding chapter. 2015 Sustainability Report, as well as organisations, and we strive to put them an assessment of Telstra's application at the centre of everything we do. In We develop our sustainability reporting of the principle of materiality, as outlined Australia, our services are offered through in accordance with industry and in the Global Reporting Initiative G4 371 Telstra-branded retail stores, 84 sustainability standards including guidelines. Telstra Business Centres, 137 Telstra the United Nations Global Compact business and enterprise partners and are Communication on Progress and the distributed by over 18,700 retail points of Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4 Core You can access Ernst & Young’s presence managed by our partners. Sustainability Reporting Guidelines, and assurance statement at In Australia we provide approximately with reference to AccountAbility’s AA1000 www.telstra.com/sustainability/report/about 16.7 million retail mobile services, 6.0 Principles Standard 2008. million retail fixed voice services and 3.1 Feedback million retail fixed data services. Telstra’s We welcome your feedback on our For more information visit international businesses operate in 20 sustainability reporting, approach www.telstra.com/sustainability/report countries around the world and include and performance. Please email Tim Telstra’s global networks and managed O’Leary, Chief Sustainability Officer at services business, as well as Telstra’s Scope sustainability@team.telstra.com China-based search and advertising Our sustainability reporting covers the business, Autohome Inc. financial year 1 July 2014 to 30 June 2015 Stay in touch (FY15) for Telstra Corporation Limited. This We understand our customers want twitter.com/telstra includes relevant Australian subsidiaries, technology and content solutions facebook.com/telstra joint ventures and partnerships as set out that are simple and easy to use – Sustainability Matters in the National Greenhouse and Energy that’s why we have built networks Reporting Act 2011. www.telstra.com/sustainability/subscribe like Australia’s largest fully integrated internet protocol (IP) network and As our international operations expand Australia’s largest mobile network. we are committed to developing a global framework for sustainability data United Nations Global Compact collection and reporting. Starting with our most material operations overseas we will You will find the icon below throughout continue to expand on the scope of our the Bigger Picture 2015 Sustainability reporting over time. Report. It indicates where we are providing information on our progress in Wherever possible and relevant under the implementing the ten principles of the G4 guidelines we have extended the scope United Nations Global Compact. of this report to include our operations across the Telstra Group, as well as a discussion of any broader impacts across our value chain. Bigger Picture 2015 Sustainability Report 18
