UN Global Compact Progress Report 2014 Global Compact Progress Report 2014 Global Compact is an initiative of former UN Secretary-General Kofi Annan, which was launched in January 1999. Global Compact is a call to business world-wide to help build the social and environmental framework to ensure the open and free markets and to ensure that people everywhere have a chance to share the benefits of the new global economy. The Global Compact encompasses 10 principles from international declarations on human rights, labour standards, environment and anti-corruption. Grontmij has committed to uphold the Global Compact and the 10 principles by participating in the initiative, and as part of this commitment to implement the principles as part of its strategy, culture and day-to-day operations. Our progress in this process is reported in the following Communication on Progress 2014. You will find our 2014 annual report online at 2014annualreport.grontmij.com UN Global Compact Progress Report 2014 2 CEO statement Michiel Jaski I am pleased to confirm that Grontmij supports the ten principles of the Global Compact in respect to human rights, labour rights, the protection of the environment and anti-corruption. With this statement, we express our intent to support and advance those principles within our sphere of influence. We commit to making the Global Compact and its principles part of the strategy, culture and day-to-day operations of our company and undertake to make a clear statement of this commitment both to our employees, partners, clients and to the public. We support public accountability and transparency and will report on progress made in a public manner. In our role as a leading sustainable design, engineering and management consultancy we have a responsibility to our stakeholders and our environment. We believe the integrity of our group means we must live up to this responsibility in everything we do, every day. Michiel Jaski CEO Grontmij N.V. UN Global Compact Progress Report 2014 3 Ten principles In 2012 we implemented a tailored group wide integrity system to our group and our business activities. We identified and defined the components we needed: Responsibility (to our society, environment, stakeholders and employees), Competence, Diligence, Impartiality, Fairness and Anti-Corruption. Five out of six components are derived from the Code of Ethics of the International Federation of Consulting Engineers (FIDIC). In addition, our Responsibility follows the ten principles of United Nations Global Compact. The integrity system consists of a policy, the business principles, a code of conduct, and a SpeakUp procedure (whistle blowing arrangement). In 2014, we carried out a thorough review of our integrity system. We updated all our integrity documents, introduced a one-page ‘Act with Integrity’ to lower the threshold for our employees. This concise document explains our values and principles in an easily accessible way. Furthermore, we added an additional whistleblowing phone line called Speak Up! This new move is designed to: • Remove barriers for reporting – Allow reporting in local languages; – Make anonymous reporting easier; – Provide a transparent, structured and controlled system for handling concerns. • Introduce possibility to communicate anonymously with the reporting employee. • Introduce the possibility for third-party (clients, business partners, etc.) reporting. • Review whistleblowing in accordance with data privacy and labour laws. Moreover, we began a new Group-wide communication campaign to raise integrity awareness among our employees. We will continue this campaign in 2015. Grontmij also takes responsibility for the downstream CR approach Grontmij values in the supply chain through our “Act with Integrity” programme. We expect the same responsibility commitment E nv iro Suppliers nm from our business partners and suppliers, also in areas such en t as human rights, non-discrimination and anti-corruption. We (G R I) R ep have incorporated these business principles into our standard Responsible Operations Reduce our own impact on or tin g Pla the environment through: nn procurement policies. • Energy management • Carbon management Act in g • Sustainable procurement ivi tie Sh are s Clie Mon ito hold rin Furthermore we report yearly our progress on Corporate nts Stat g eg ers Responsibility (CR) in our CR year report in accordance to the y Sustainability by Design Grontmij Contribute positively to Integrity & Business Business environmental challenges and Core Values Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). The image demonstrates achieve market leadership in Engaged Workplace our group growth activities: Collaborative Create a safe and healthy working • Energy the integrated CR approach of Grontmij • Highways & Roads Reliable environment to motivate and inspire our employees & business partners. • Sustainable Buildings and forms the basis of our annual CR report. • Water Social Added Value Achieve a positive impact to Pa the communities we act in. se rt ye ne p lo rs Em ety Soci UN Global Compact Progress Report 2014 4 Ten principles Principle Global compact Principle Process of Implementation no. 1 Business should support and respect The protection of internationally proclaimed human rights is included in the the protection of internationally Grontmij business policy and principles and integrated in our integrity proclaimed human rights. management system. Since January 2008, as part of the GRI-based CR reporting, Grontmij has conducted a monitoring process for non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning health and safety, labour practices, product standards, environmental regulatory compliance and anti-corruption. View our CR report for 2014 http://2014annualreport.grontmij.com/csr/Pages/Workplace-and-people.aspx 2 Business should ensure that they are As part of the GRI-based CR reporting, a conformity monitoring process for not complicit in human right abuses. non-discrimination was undertaken for the fifth year. In the period January 2009 to December 2013 Grontmij reported one incident that had occurred in 2012 (GRI indicator HR4). In 2014, there were no infringements of any human rights code. View our CR report for 2014 http://2014annualreport.grontmij.com/csr/Pages/Workplace-and-people.aspx 3 Business should uphold the freedom Grontmij upholds such a policy for its employees. The policy is of association and the effective included in the Grontmij business policy and principles and integrated in recognition of the right to collective our integrity management system. bargaining. View our management approach to human rights http://www.grontmij.com/corporategovernance/Documents/ Grontmij-Business-Policy-and-Principles.pdf 4 Business should support the elimination of All employees have individual contracts stating terms and conditions of service all forms of forced and compulsory labour. and the notice of leave. Our employment policies forbid the use of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. Our policies for the selection of sub-contractors and suppliers similarly forbid the use of forced or compulsory labour in our supply chain. The policy is included in the Grontmij business policy and principles and integrated in our integrity management system. View our management approach to human rights http://www.grontmij.com/corporategovernance/Documents/ Grontmij-Business-Policy-and-Principles.pdf 5 Business should support the effective abolition Grontmij fully supports the policy of abolishing child labour. of child labour. The policy is included in the Grontmij business policy and principles and integrated in our integrity management system. View our management approach to human rights http://www.grontmij.com/corporategovernance/Documents/ Grontmij-Business-Policy-and-Principles.pdf UN Global Compact Progress Report 2014 5 Principle Global compact Principle Process of Implementation no. 6 Business should support the Grontmij has implemented a recruitment policy securing equal employment elimination of discrimination in respect opportunities based solely upon an assessment of relevant qualifications. of employment and occupation. Our policies for ensuring equality of opportunity expressly commit us to working towards elimination of all forms of discrimination. The policy is included in the Grontmij business policy and principles and integrated in our integrity management system. We began formally monitoring our compliance against human rights performance in January 2008. In the period from then until December 2013, we recorded one infringement of the anti-discriminatory code of practice (voluntary or otherwise). In 2014, there were no infringements of any human rights code. View our CR report for 2014 http://2014annualreport.grontmij.com/csr/Pages/Workplace-and-people.aspx 7 Business should support a Business precautionary approach to We see it as our CR and business role to advise on how to develop the places environmental challenges. where we live and work in ways that are responsible, both now and into the future, using increasingly scarce natural resources wisely. This is why our focus segments are: Energy, Highways & Roads, Sustainable Buildings and Water. Operations Since 2008, our CR report has been prepared to the standards of the Global Reporting Initiative 3.1. View our CR report for 2014 http://2014annualreport.grontmij.com/csr/Pages/cr-report.aspx UN Global Compact Progress Report 2014 6 Principle Global compact Principle Process of Implementation no. 8 Business should undertake initiatives to Grontmij undertakes a number of initiatives to promote greater environmental promote greater environmental responsibility. responsibility. Just about every project we undertake has an impact on the environment. That is why Grontmij’s purpose is to enable our clients to make informed decisions and well-considered investments as they develop our natural and built environment. Growing urbanisation and population and climate change have generated a new set of issues for our clients in both the public and private sectors. Issues like how to guarantee the supply of clean drinking water. How to protect land against flooding. How to meet the ever increasing demand for mobility. How to improve the buildings we all live and work in. And how to deal with tomorrow’s energy challenges. Grontmij’s areas of expertise are key in helping clients create smart and practical solutions for these issues. So together, we make a lasting contribution to a changing world. As CR is of great value in the execution our projects, we also have to take up these responsibilities in our own operations. We are committed to developing and applying new technologies and processes that have great value in executing our projects in a sustainable way. All Grontmij countries (except China) are ISO-9001 certified, most countries are certified according to ISO-14001 and some countries are certified according to Ohsas 18001. These management standards help us to comply with (environmental) legislation, improve the quality of environmental performance in our projects and to identify potential risks. Examples of initiatives launched in 2014 are described throughout our group annual (CR) report. View our CR report for 2014 http://2014annualreport.grontmij.com/csr/Pages/cr-report.aspx View our annual report 2014 http://2014annualreport.grontmij.com/Pages/annual-report-2014.aspx UN Global Compact Progress Report 2014 7 Principle Global compact Principle Process of Implementation no. 9 Business should encourage the development Grontmij contributes positively to some of the world’s most pressing and diffusion of environmentally friendly environmental problems through its innovative solutions and technologies. technologies. We solve problems, design and engineer solutions and supervise or monitor their implementation – all from a sustainable perspective. Grontmij is making a widespread effort to encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Our responsibility to the use and development of environmentally friendly technologies is included in the Grontmij business policy and principles and is integrated in our integrity management system. Examples of initiatives launched in 2014 are described throughout our group annual (CR) report. View our 2014 project highlights http://2014annualreport.grontmij.com/projects/Pages/default.aspx View our annual report 2014 http://2014annualreport.grontmij.com/Pages/annual-report-2014.aspx 10 Business should work against Anti corruption is an important part of our Grontmij business policy and corruption in all its forms, including principles and is integrated in our integrity management system. extortion and bribery. Since January 2008 as part of the GRI-based CR reporting Grontmij has conducted a monitoring process for non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning anti-corruption. For the period January 2008 to December 2013 Grontmij has reported no incidents (GRI indicator SO4). View our CR report for 2014 http://2014annualreport.grontmij.com/csr/Pages/Workplace-and-people.aspx UN Global Compact Progress Report 2014 8
