COP 2015 This COP covers the period from October 2014 to October 2015 The company Jyden Work wear A/S is an international trading and production company that has been in existence for 90-years. We design, produce and sell our work wear in Denmark and abroad. Our product range is quite extensive, enabling us to meet the demands within many different work wear areas. Furthermore, we are capable of developing and producing specific solutions for our customers with special needs. Our quality control procedures are applied prior, during and after production to ensure high standards regarding design, comfort and wearability. Statement of continued support by the chief executive officer To our stakeholders I am pleased to confirm that Jyden Work Wear A/S reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and AntiCorruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Due to the nature of our business and the external influences, Jyden has again focussed on the supply chain because it is here that the risks of environmental and social impacts are higher. We will continue to work with the Global compact ten principles in our daily operations in the coming year. Sincerely yours Ole Sørensen Adm.Director Assessment procedures RE: Human rights, Anti corruption, Environment and Labour: Our Business partners As shown and stated in our previous COP risk assessment work, most of the critical impacts associated to human rights, anti-corruption, environment and labour are related to our suppliers outside the EU and that information and a more formal approach was needed. The assessment procedure for this last year has been a continuation of our previous work and is hown below diagrammatically. Suppliers read and fill out the Evaluate and questionnire develop a General assessment plan of action For High risk countries: Use of third party audits, certifications, Questionnaire, Code standards of conduct, Environmental requirements are sent out to suppliers We perform a general assessment of our suppliers by using a questionnaire regarding human rights, anti-corruption, labour and environment. The questionnaire as well as our code of conduct, our environmental requirements and our workers rights documents are sent to the suppliers who are asked to read them, answer the questions and sign them. We evaluate the supplier’s situation according to the answers and revert with input in any areas that we deem to be either unacceptable or “grey” areas. We also inform our suppliers of the various tools and resources available that can help them in their sustainability work. A more thorough assessment is made in specific cases involving specific products and or services especially in cases where manufacturing of our products occurs in highrisk countries and industries. In these cases, we ask for third party certifications and or audits to verify compliance to Social and environmental requirements. During 2014, we developed our “clean purchasing” policy so that it is aligned to our customers requirements and more specific to the ten principles of Global compact. Jyden undertakes “Due diligence” of all new suppliers before they become a Jyden supplier. It has been decided that our clean purchasing policy will include procedures that follow certain phases. The first phase is that the supplier in question complies with all country regulations regarding labour, environment, human rights and anti-corruption. The second phase involves the suppliers own CSR work and to what degree they go beyond country regulations. The final evaluation phase will involve the existence of third party certifications and audits. Third party accredited compliance systems are a very effective way of assessing a business partners and we are urging all our existing suppliers to start working with such schemes. During the last year, we have used our clean purchasing policy guidelines to assess our new suppliers and as a result, we have decided to put more weight on credible third party audits, standards and certifications. Our operations locally We perform a risk assessment through a yearly evaluation that covers the global compact ten principles. We use a questionnaire for the management and one for the employees and the results are used to plan and set down the action plan for the following year. Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Jyden’s stand: Respect and support with the internationally recognised human rights such as the universal declaration of human rights throughout all of our operations. Human rights abuses will not be tolerated. We will not trade with suppliers that break the corruption principles and with any suppliers that do not comply with the internationally recognised principles such as the universal declaration of human rights, ILO and children’s rights. Implementation and Measurable results During this last year, Jyden undertook due diligence of several new suppliers regarding principles 1 and 2. No new suppliers have been chosen yet. Our employees in Vietnam are continuing to perform regular visits to the production facilities we use and report back to us on any human rights abuses. We have continued to visit our overseas suppliers at least 2 times a year where we also discuss human rights issues regarding principles 1 and 2 as part of our agenda. Employees are informed of the importance of Jydens stand on human rights. We have not had any reports of human rights violations from the various reporting sources such as our overseas resident employees, audit reports or our “employees input system” where employees are encouraged to put forward ideas, complaints or any input that they feel is important to them. Internally, Jyden holds regular employee meetings where everyone has the opportunity to voice, opinions, complaints or anything else they want to. Locally, Jyden supports the hospital clowns that perform for children. Labour Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labour Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Our aim: Provide a healthy and pleasant work environment that takes both the physical and psychological considerations regarding employees engaged throughout our operations. Our stand: Jyden respects the right of employees to have workers representation and the right to join associations. We do not tolerate forced, compulsory and child labour. We are committed to providing equal opportunities and avoiding discrimination. We expect that our business partners work with the same views and uphold the laws of the country they operate in as a minimum Implementation and measurable results As stated above, assessment of the labour conditions occurs through our risk assessment, but also through regular visits to our suppliers. The information we receive help us determine how to continue our CSR work. An example where we changed a planned initiative because of such information is described below. Part of our 2015 action plan, concerned the introduction of the work environment evaluation system that we are using here in Denmark to our suppliers. However when we looked at the information we received from the supplier both through our questionnaire and consequent talks with them, we became aware of an increasing problem the suppliers are faced with. They are asked by different customers to comply to quite allot of different standards, certifications and audits such as BSCI, audit, SA 8000. ISO 9001 and 14001, Fair trade, Wind mill etc., as well as private standards and audits from companies like Wall mart and so on. This made us rethink our strategy and the first decision was to drop our plans of introducing yet another system. We decided instead to focus on credible certifications, standards and audits that the company was already working with and to work with these in the following ways: 1. Use these as a means to determine the state of the supplier within the ten principles. We look at each standard, certification and audit and use certain parameters to determine the compliance level of the documentation. We look for example to see whether the audit was performed by an accredited third party auditor, whether the certification is an ISO type 1, whether the standard is based on the life cycle and so on. We then, make what we call a supplier mapping. More concretely, we started a Mappping/traceability project where we trace the suppliers and sub-suppliers regarding their performance under the global compact 10 principles. 2. Use these to align our requirements with our own customers requirements. Our customers are increasingly requiring both Ecolabel certification on the products and compliance to social and quality specified requirements. One concrete area where we align our CSR strategy with that of our customers concerns the certification of our products with either the EU Ecolabel or the Nordic Ecolabel. As part of our policy to adopt the use of third party certifications, standards and audits, Jyden decided to work on two major projects. One project concerns the Fair trade standard. Fairtrade standards are designed to tackle poverty and empower producers in the poorest countries in the world. The standards apply to both producers and traders. The Fairtrade Cotton Program unlocks exciting new opportunities for cotton farmers to improve their lives through Fairtrade. It connects farmers with the growing number of businesses seeking to make sustainable cotton a core part of their business. Fairtrade cotton focusses on the people at the very bottom of the textile supply chain the farmers who pick the raw cotton, who often earn barely enough to cover their costs. Through Fairtrade, thousands of cotton farmers have already improved their lives. Cotton cooperatives have become better organized, farmers are more productive and women are receiving the same rewards as male farmers, from voting rights to equal pay. To support the sale of fair trade cotton, Jyden decided to require and cooperate with a supplier in the use of fair trade cotton on a number of their products. These products include both existing and new items and the planning, design and production and have been underway in this last year. These products will be offered to various customers shortly. We also decided that the supplier should show compliance to quality and environmental management and as such we required ISI 9001 and ISO 14001 No labour violations have been reported from the various reporting channels including our employees in Vietnam who perform regular visits to the production facilities. Internally, we continue to use the obligatory work environment evaluation in order to take care of the working conditions regarding indoor climate (temperature, air quality, light and acoustics), Ergonomics (working positions, repetitive actions, intensive computer work) and the psychological work aspects (work pressure, work tempo, extra work, unclear work duties, unclear goals, learning opportunities, work variation, freedom of movement, lack of appreciation). Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Our business pollutes throughout the life cycle of the products and our goal is to reduce the these environmental impacts. We are committed to continuous improvement of our impacts throughout the life cycle of our products. Assessment and Implementation Undertaking due diligence in 2014 and in cooperation with one of our customers, we looked at the suppliers environmental performance. Two of our suppliers have decided to discontinue their EU Ecolabel licences because the new criteria are more complicated and harder to interpret and as a result, they are not sure whether they can comply. This decision means that Jyden can no longer continue with the same EU Ecolabel. Jyden was therefore faced with the prospect of not having any EU Ecolabel products and this is why the decision to make an application even though the suppliers have dropped it. Undertaking the application process is the second big project and we estimate that it will take another six months before we have the EU Ecolabel or the Nordic Ecolabel licence. These Ecolabels are based on LCA and are independent which makes them very credible. As something new we are in the process of looking at the possibilities of GOTS certified organic cotton. This is under discussion both internally, and with selected customers. Locally, we are continuing the process of changing all our services and products used at our premises to Ecolabelled wherever possible. We are monitoring new technologies regarding sustainable solutions that may be relevant to us and also our suppliers. Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Jyden policy states clearly that corruption in all its forms including extortion and bribery are not tolerated. Moreover all elements of Jyden’s activities are completely transparent which reduces the element of corruption greatly. Assessment and Implementation A more detailed examination in 2014 of Jydens anticorruption procedure pointed to the risk that Jyden needed to formalise its procedures to include several initiatives. An anti-corruption policy has been formalised and communicated to our staff and our business partners. No corruption incidents have been reported to Jyden.
