COMMUNICATION OF PROGRESS 2015 World Sport Profile’s Support for the UN Global Compact World Sport Profile became a signatory to the UN Global Compact on the18th October 2013. We are pleased to present this, our second Communication of progress under the United Nations Global Compact. On a day to day basis, World Sport Profile encourages all of its employees to behave in a way that respects human rights: through their everyday interactions, by becoming self aware and more concerned about the impacts that their behaviours have on other individuals and their communities, and by looking after their own mental wellbeing. In addition, we are committed to educating both the clients and candidates with whom we come into contact with, about the importance of these behaviours in the workplace. The World Sport Profile Executive will continue our support for the UN Global Compact and commits to the initiatives and principles identified and detailed in this document. STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT BY COMPANY EXECUTIVE 2nd October 2015 To our stakeholders and members: We are pleased to confirm that World Sport Profile reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders & members using our primary channels of communication. Yours sincerely Timothy Cornwall CEO About World Sport Profile World Sport Profile Ltd is a Global, full-service, Sports Management & Consultancy group, providing services to the sports Industry. Based in London, WSP engages Clubs, Agents, scouts, brands, advertising agencies and sports governing organisations around the world. WSP works with emerging talent and professionals who have competed or performed on the World stage. World Sport Profile has the strongest International sporting network in the industry through the use of our Global partnerships and the development of personal and close relationships with key managers, players and clubs throughout Europe and South America. From managing emerging talent to the development and activation of integrated marketing, sponsorship, media campaigns/ events and merchandising programs, WSP is in an ideal position to maximise each and every one of our client’s strategies and achieve their key objectives. Human Rights • Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and • Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. What we already do: We absolutely believe in the validity of international human rights. To regard and protect these rights should be an obligation for every governmental power. This principle is already an inalterable part of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland constitution but there are countries, where these rights are not yet in effect, part of everyday life. We therefore support the international community in its endeavours to affect these countries in a peaceful, but unmistakable way and to fully support these countries on their way into the international fold. What we still can improve: As a company with limited international influence, we are not empowered to act as a role model where such behaviour would be of great benefit. Nevertheless, we will always treat every person within our sphere of influence the way it is internationally considered to be fair and appropriate. We can also support non‐governmental organizations that have the pursuit to improve the situation of human rights wherever it happens to be necessary. Our obligation to the Her Majesties constitution is a constant incentive to contribute positively to our social environment. Furthermore, we will try to ensure that our future purchases have not been produced under circumstances which are considered dishonourable or generally unacceptable. These efforts are similar to our efforts in the field of Labour. On a day to day basis, World Sport Profile encourages all of its employees to behave in a way that respects human rights: through their everyday interactions, by becoming self aware and more concerned about the impacts that their behaviours have on other individuals and their communities, and by looking after their own mental wellbeing. In addition, we are committed to educating both the clients and young athletes with whom we come into contact with, about the importance of these behaviours in the workplace. Measurement of Outcomes World Sport profile continues to build a culture which values and respects all employees and their opinions. We remain committed to meritocracy, which requires a diverse and inclusive culture. We have periodical external and internal audits ensuring that the requirements are continuously refined and updated when and where necessary. World Sport profile has not been subject to any investigations, legal cases or incidents involving human rights violations. Labour • Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; • Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; • Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and • Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. What we already do: We accept and support our employees’ right to organize or gather, may it be informal or unionised. Being a company with a relatively small number of employees, a staff association has not been founded yet. Nevertheless we will not try to get in the way of such an organisation or influence it in any way. We absolutely disapprove of forced labour, either through physical force or through other means. We would also never accept or tolerate any behaviour from our partners and clients that could be construed as supporting any type of forced labour. We also refuse child labour with equal intent. Childhood should be a time of life when children grow up, learn and develop themselves in their own way and under the loving guidance of their families. Every kind of child labour opposes these goals and can therefore in no way be accepted or tolerated by us. We are proud that we have never had any employment related convictions and are committed to an ongoing working environment free from discrimination and bullying. Measurement of Outcomes All World Sport profile employees participated in our annual employee welfare survey, to share their feedback about World Sport profile as a place to work. The results were compiled and reviewed by HR who compared the results against company benchmarks and prior results and feedback. A focus group was established to design and implement plans and to address any issues identified or concerns raised. We are proud to report no violations of labour standards during 2014 and 2015. Discrimination If a World Sport Profile employee feels that he/she has been discriminated against, harassed or victimised, he/she must speak with the relevant Managing Director. Anyone who is found to have engaged in discrimination, sexual harassment or victimisation/bullying may be subject to disciplinary steps, which can include an apology, counselling, transfer, dismissal with notice, or immediate dismissal. Discrimination means treating someone unfairly or unfavourably because of a personal characteristic such as their: • Age • Physical Features • Breastfeeding • Political Belief or Activity • Carer Status • Pregnancy • Disability • Race (Including Colour, Nationality • Employment Activity • Ethnicity and Ethnic Origin) • Gender Identity • Religious Belief or Activity • Industrial Activity • Sex • Lawful Sexual Activity • Sexual Orientation • Marital Status • Personal association with someone who has, or is assumed to have, any of these personal characteristics • Parental Status . Equal Opportunity Discrimination can be direct or indirect. Direct discrimination is treating one person less favourably than another because of particular attributes, such as race, colour, sex, sexual preference, age, disability, medical record, impairment, marital status, pregnancy, potential pregnancy, family responsibilities, criminal record, trade union activity, political opinion, religion, national extraction or social origin. An example of direct discrimination would be deciding not to employ a person because that person is from a particular ethnic background. Indirect discrimination is treating everyone the same but in a way that ends up being unfair to a specific group of people. An example of this is where the design of a workplace prevents a person with a disability from accessing the equipment needed to do the job. Sexual Harassment Under the Equal Opportunity Act, sexual harassment is against the law. Sexual harassment is unwelcome conduct of a sexual nature that could make a person feel offended, humiliated or intimidated. Sexual harassment can be physical, verbal, visual or written. World Sport Profile aims to create a working environment which is free from sexual harassment and where all employees are treated with dignity, courtesy and respect. As an employee you must: • not engage in sexual harassment; • not act in a manner which encourages an environment in which sexual harassment is likely to occur; • not treat differently an individual who has made a complaint of sexual harassment; • not make false accusations of sexual harassment; • offer support to anyone who is being sexually harassed and let that individual know where they can get help and advice; and • maintain complete confidentiality if providing information during the investigation of a complaint. Employees who spread gossip or rumours will be in breach of this policy and may also expose themselves to a defamation action. Management must: • monitor their direct working environment to ensure that acceptable standards of conduct are observed at all times; • model appropriate behaviour themselves; and • promote the principles of World Sport Profile’s sexual harassment policy within their work area Victimisation / Bullying World Sport Profile does not tolerate victimisation or bullying in the workplace under any circumstances. World Sport Profile employees must not: • engage in bullying; or • act in a manner which encourages an environment in which bullying is likely to occur. Flexible Work Practices World Sport Profile is committed to providing a flexible workplace and where possible, to accommodate the changing needs of employees. Measurement of Outcomes All World Sport profile employees participated in our annual employee welfare survey, to share their feedback about World Sport profile as a place to work. The results were compiled and reviewed by our HR officer who compared the results against company benchmarks and prior results and feedback. A focus group was established to design and implement plans and to address any issues identified or concerns raised. We are proud to report no instances of harassment in any form during 2014 and 2015. Environment • Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; • Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; • Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. What we already do: World Sport Profile is committed to a sustainable future through the adoption of environmentally responsible policies and practices. As part of this commitment, we acknowledge our responsibility to reduce the impact that our business operations will have on the environment. Amongst other things, WSP organises vehicle pools for employees. Therefore we are part of the volume of traffic and the environmental pollution involved. Every appointment economised not only helps to save time and money, but also decreases the input of natural resources. Another action is to manage and document all customer relationships and internal procedures within one electronic system. This enables our employees to do their work without paper in principle, which reduces not only costs of administration, but also significant amounts of water and energy. Internal printing, if not dispensable is usually done with paper already at hand, like scrap paper. The site of our company was chosen to be comfortably reachable by public means of transport thus guaranteeing our employees the freedom of choice of how to make their way to work. It is inevitable that our employee’s/ agents have to visit future clients in order to present our range of services. With clients located around Europe, a lot of travelling has been done. This leads not only to high personal effort, but also a high input of resources. There are two approaches to minimise costs and input of resources. First, many client contacts are done by means of video-conferencing, which reduces polluting emissions mostly. Secondly, travelling to most of the clients is done by train, which greatly improves the pollutant balance of the client contact. We have implemented the following environmentally friendly services and policies: • Recycling of consumables • Recycling of in-house paper • Double sided photocopying whenever possible • Purchasing of recycled paper • Turning off of equipment when not in use • E-Xmas cards in lieu of sending paper cards What we still can improve: The importance of fuel economy data for company vehicles has increased steadily over the past years due to rising fuel costs. A possible way to improve our ecological behaviour as a company would be internal information about altering the journey to work, for example by promoting alternatives and presenting the rates and possibilities of the local transport systems. We will keep on trying to reduce travelling efforts of our agents/ employees, either by increasing the number of contacts realised by video-conferencing or by improving the efficiency of our agent’s itineraries. Indeed, it is very difficult to quantify the effects of such activities, as of the unsteady character of our client development. Measurement of Outcomes World Sport profile has not had any environmental incidents and has not been subject to any statutory notices or prosecutions during 2014 – 2015. Anti‐Corruption • Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. What we already do: Corruption in the field of business is significant and a serious threat to the development of a free economy. We actively try to eliminate corruption in our company by prohibiting our employees from accepting presents that exceed £25 in monetary value. We also limit ourselves to handing presents to our clients and partners that are appropriate and within the same price limitation. In addition to World Sport Profile’s externally espoused values, we have a set of internal operating values, against which all major decisions are made, and internal relationships are managed. In accordance with these values, it is expected that employees will make decisions that are determined to be generous and kind to each other, and authentic in their approach to individuals and to the business. Honesty is integral to this, and all of World Sport Profile’s staff are provided with regular performance reviews that incorporate client feedback – this helps us to ensure that our people are accountable for their honest dealings with all relevant parties. Our value system emphasises integrity and trust at all levels of our organisation. To ensure our company is managed with integrity and in our clients best interests, we have put in place policies and practices that maintain high standards of conduct and comply fully with applicable laws and governmental regulations. Our code of conduct and ethics gives clear guidelines for the company’s expectations of employees to ensure lawful and ethical behaviour. Our code of conduct covers areas such as:  Reporting violations and ensuring compliance  Lobbying and legislative contacts  Corporate opportunities and conflicts of interest  Business and government officials  Antitrust and competition law compliance  Gratuities and gifts  Financial and accounting practices  Money laundering  Political contributions Any violations or concerns relating to our code of conduct can be reported to management 24 hours a day What we still can improve: World Sport Profile has designed an AntiCorruption Workshop to be delivered throughout the sports industry and organisations connected with it. We are currently in talks with footballs governing bodies with the express intention of rolling out the workshop across the European continent in 2016. The workshop will increase the awareness of the participants and prepare them to be better managers, employers, employees and colleagues. They will acquire the knowledge and analytical framework to make better decisions to improve both their effectiveness and efficiency, and their ability to identify corrupt practices, and work to a framework and systems that proactively discourages Bribery and corruption in all their forms. The content can be customized but typically includes some or all of the following:  Anti – Corruption & Bribery Information  Creation of a comprehensive action plan to report Corruption & Bribery in the workplace  Understanding a clubs legal position  Measurement and evaluation, including calculation of net benefits  Interactive E-Video , question & answer session and ROI of sustainable business practices  Strategic alignment of learning to the organization’s goals  Developing a guidance document on Anti-Corruption Reporting  Development of a compelling business case for improved anti Disciplined execution, including the creation and implementation of corruption systems anti corruption measures in everyday business  Role playing sessions  Personalised Brochures for continued reference*  Session worksheets & handouts  Discussion and selection of appropriate anti-corruption models  Anti-Corruption Guidelines and Integrity Systems  Discussion and selection of the appropriate organisational structure for combating corruption  Corruption Cases and Court Rulings  Creation of a multi-year plan or journey to achieve transformation  Due Diligence Modules Measurement of Outcomes To this date World sport profile has not been involved in any legal cases, rulings or other events related to corruption or bribery Conclusion World Sport Profile is proud of the progress it has made in its second year as a signatory to the UN Global Compact and look forward to the many exciting opportunities that we have identified to make further progress towards the UNGC’s 10 Principles during the next year of our signatory status. Web: www.worldsportprofile.co.uk
