United Nations Global Compact GEODIS 2014 Communication on Progress In 2014, GEODIS has confirmed its commitment to the United Nations Global Compact. Signed since 2003, it accounts for one of the basis of our Group’s CSR approach. We are committed to promoting its 10 principles on Human Rights, Labor, Environment and Anti-Corruption. There are fully in line with our CSR approach, our Stakeholders’ Total Satisfaction program and with our 5 Values: Commitment, Innovation, trust, Solidarity and Passion. We are convinced that Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) is a key to the company’s performance. In 2014, GEODIS has made progress in terms of CSR. We have launched the certification process for the “Investors In People” (IIP) standard with an aim of implementation across the Group by the end of 2016. Our “Stakeholders’ Total Satisfaction” (STS) program is central to our approach. We ran our first worldwide customer satisfaction survey in 2014, addressing questions to over 90,000 customers. Several topics relating to our performance on key CSR issues (e.g., safety, ethics, diversity and the environment) received approval scores of 90% or better. We also signed a partnership agreement with Handicap International, an aid organization that helps vulnerable people in many countries. I’m particularly proud of this partnership. 2015 is an important year for GEODIS, with the 21st United Nations Climate Change Conference of the Parties (COP 21) due to be held in Paris later this year. For two weeks, Paris will be in the spotlight of international attention. As a French company with a worldwide profile, this is an opportunity for us to demonstrate our CSR engagement. Achieving pollution-free urban logistics is high on our agenda. In 2015, we will be rolling out our Megacities project, providing eco-friendly services starting in Paris, Mexico and Shanghai. In Paris, GEODIS’ Distribution & Express Line of Business will progressively implement and increase the amount of electric vehicles in their fleet. Next to that, we are investigating other options of alternative fuels. As a Transport and Logistics company, we are part of the issue of global warming yet as a responsible company, we are also part of the solution and we intend to play that role. GEODIS management and its employees are committed to promote our CSR approach and the United Nations Global Compact. The following pages show some examples of actions we have conducted in this field in 2014. GEODIS 2014 Communication on Progress – 30 April 2015 Page 1 In 2014, GEODIS confirmed its support to the United Nations Global Compact and has continued its efforts to improve its Corporate Social Responsibility performance. This document presents some of GEODIS main actions in 2014. Action Continuation of actions related to the Company Plan and aiming at Stakeholders’ Total Satisfaction (STS) Related Principles of the Global Compact: Human Rights • Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and • Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labour • Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; • Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; • Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and • Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment • Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; • Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and • Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-Corruption • Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. GEODIS is a Supply Chain Operator ranking among the top companies in its field in Europe and the World. GEODIS, which is part of SNCF Logistics, which in turn is a business line of the SNCF Group, is the number one Transport and Logistics operator in France and ranked number four in Europe. The international reach includes a direct presence in 67 countries and a global network spanning over 120 countries. With its five lines of business (Supply Chain Optimization, Freight Forwarding, Contract Logistics, Distribution & Express and Road Transport), GEODIS manages its customers Supply Chain by providing end-to-end solutions enabled by our people, our infrastructure, processes and systems. The Company Plan: Ambition 2018 In 2013, GEODIS launched its company plan: Ambition 2018. Since then, the plan has become a key component in decision-making processes within the Group. Ambition 2018 represents GEODIS’ statement on how it intends to develop and grow over the coming years. The plan is anchored by our Mission, our Vision and our Values – three elements that underscore all GEODIS’ activities and operations. Since the launch, the senior management team has conducted roadshows and information meetings across the globe. In 2014, the team continued to present Ambition 2018 to employees and answer their questions. Our Mission We help our clients succeed by overcoming logistical constraints. Our Vision We are the growth par tner for our clients Our Values We are experts in Transport and Logistics solutions, united by a shared passion and commitment. The five values the entire Group adheres to are Commitment, Solidarity, Trust, Innovation and Passion. We are committed to our clients, their needs, priorities and successes. We continuously innovate, we go the extra mile to improve our performance and the performance of our clients. We build trust, we are reliable, we respect our commitments and keep our word. We demonstrate solidarity, we are loyal and faithful to our clients, partners and amongst ourselves. We are passionate, determined and driven by the desire to succeed together and for our clients. GEODIS 2014 Communication on Progress – 30 April 2015 Page 2 Stakeholders’ Total Satisfaction The focus of every aspect of the Group’s strategy and operations is Stakeholders’ Total Satisfaction (STS). Anchored by 7 Golden Rules, STS is a continuous improvement process in which every member of the company is involved. GEODIS constantly strives to fully understand the expectations of its customers, employees, the Group’s shareholder (SNCF) and society at large, and we make every effort to satisfy them. Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) monitor progress in achieving STS through: Monthly KPIs on the Golden Rules, External benchmarking such as Investors In People (IIP) and ISO standards, Yearly employee and customer satisfaction surveys. 7 Golden Rules To achieve the goal of Stakeholders’ Total Satisfaction, GEODIS has introduced 7 Golden Rules, which have become increasingly embodied within the Group. They are fundamental to all its actions and initiatives. The Golden Rules cover topics such as quality of service, safety, recruitment and employee development. The main CSR-related Golden Rule is “Be a Good Citizen”, but other Golden Rules also concern CSR matters. GEODIS, a responsible company The Group’s Corporate Social Responsibility Department reports directly to General Management. It relies on a network of CSR correspondents in each Line of Business. The CSR Department coordinates the CSR policy, which is put directly into practice through a number of steering committees. In particular, each Line of Business defines its own action plans and monitors its performance according to its own specific profile and characteristics. A reporting process on social and environmental indicators has been implemented since 2008. Core documents A number of reference texts and certain fundamental policies underline GEODIS’ ambitions in CSR and its commitments. They include: • The United Nations Global Compact, signed since 2003, • A quality management system based on the ISO 9001 standard, • An environmental management system based on the ISO 14001 standard, • A safety management system based on the OHSAS 18001 standard, • The Investors In People standard relating to Human Resources, • ISO 26000 guidelines on CSR. GEODIS 2014 Communication on Progress – 30 April 2015 Page 3 GEODIS has published its 6th Sustainable Development / CSR Report in April 2014, as requested by the French law (article 225, Grenelle II). The 7th report will be published in May/June 2015 and available on www.geodis.com Reports explain GEODIS CSR approach, organization, main actions and indicators. External assessment of GEODIS on its CSR performance by EcoVadis: 64/100, among the top five companies in the sector EcoVadis, an independent platform that evaluates the CSR performance of companies in 150 sectors of activity, carried out an assessment of GEODIS in 2014. It was rated as “confirmed”, with a score of 64/100 (63/100 in 2013). It scored 80 in the Environment section, 60 for Labor Practices, 50 for Fair Business Practices and 60 in the Suppliers section. GEODIS ranks among the top five companies in the Transport and Logistics sector, where the average overall score is 38/100. GEODIS 2014 Communication on Progress – 30 April 2015 Page 4 Action Ethics & Compliance : a robust framework Related Principles of the Global Compact: Anti-Corruption • Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. GEODIS is deeply committed to its responsibilities towards all its stakeholders and to complying with the laws of every territory in which it operates. In this respect, the GEODIS Ethics and Compliance program has been globally deployed across its five Lines of Business. As an integral part of the Group’s strategy and management system, the program is subject to a continuous process to develop trust and integrity. International legislation Although compliance needs permanent verification over a large number of risks, corruption, competition and export control are the three areas in which the greatest vigilance is required, notably because the reach of international laws and their enforcement (the American law FCPA – Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, UK Bribery Act, etc.), create much greater potential exposure to risk. The cost of wrongdoing would be measured not only in financial terms, with very heavy fines imposed, but also in strategic, reputation and commercial terms, with the risk of losing customers or even being banned in certain markets. Raising awareness and improving compliance In 2009, the Group set up an Ethics Committee and published its first Code of Ethics, which was distributed to all its employees. Since then, many steps have completed the program. In 2014, this Committee took a further step, with the decision to establish Ethics and Compliance as a dedicated function at Group level. The Ethics & Compliance department focuses on raising awareness among GEODIS employees through interventions in seminars and has also launched an e-learning course on anti-corruption for up to 5,000 people. In parallel of this dissemination process, the department has prepared a revised version of the Code of Ethics, a Supplier Code of conduct as well as a compliance procedure for third-party due diligence. These initiatives were launched early in 2015. GEODIS’ customers increasingly seek reassurance GEODIS 2014 Communication on Progress – 30 April 2015 Page 5 Action Fostering human development Related Principles of the Global Compact: Human Rights • Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and • Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labour • Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; • Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; • Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and • Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. GEODIS workorce is strong of 30,000 employees on 67 countries. Dynamic HR Management GEODIS’ objective is to have all its operations accredited for the international standard Investors In People by the end of 2016. The international standard Investors In People (IIP) forms the backbone of the GEODIS Human Resources policy. It affects recruitment: people are hired in terms of defined functions and are given clear job descriptions. Teams understand company strategy and are given the training they need to meet their targets. They receive clear feedback from their line managers. Employees are encouraged to request training and to suggest innovations. The principle of equal opportunities ensures that everyone is treated equally. IIP boosts performance, making it a business tool as much as an HR policy. By the end of 2014, almost all Freight Forwarding operations had been IIP certified, along with the Group’s Head Office. The Road Transport and Contract Logistics Lines of Business are preparing for audits in 2015; the Distribution & Express and Supply Chain Optimization Lines of Business will follow suit in 2016. Employee Satisfaction Survey In the context of its commitment to Stakeholders’ Total Satisfaction, it is important for the Group to measure the level of employee satisfaction. The second employee survey, conducted across all Lines of Business and on a global level, was carried out in October 2014. Questions cover management, daily working conditions, learning and development, how employees perceive the link between their work and Group strategy, innovation, communication, etc. There was a notable increase in the participation rate compared to the previous year, and the vast majority of topics (such as leadership, training, working conditions, communication) achieved higher scores in the second survey, meaning that action plans set up in 2013 (after the first survey) proved to be efficient. Social Dialogue Positive and constructive labor-relations dialogue is managed locally. Although not considered as mandatory, GEODIS organizes a European Consultation Committee for staff representatives. It meets twice a year. Delegates receive information on Group strategy, results, events, recruitment trends, etc. GEODIS 2014 Communication on Progress – 30 April 2015 Page 6 Safety : Preventing accidents in the workplace One of the Group’s 7 Golden Rules states: “Ensure the safety of our people everywhere and at anytime. Safety is at the heart of all GEODIS’ operations and every Line of Business is responsible for its own safety policy. Training and Awareness Sites from Freight Forwarding, Distribution & Express and Contract Logistics are engaged in processes to obtain OHSAS 18001 certification. By the end of 2014, 170 sites (25% of the total) were certified. The Group’s Management Committee monitors safety performance closely, and safety is always the first item on the agenda at its monthly meetings. The Contract Logistics, Distribution & Express and Road Transport Lines of Business, with the highest risk of accidents (on site or on the road), developed a variety of campaigns targeting specific risks and dangerous behaviors in 2014. Contract Logistics extended the “VIC” campaign to all its warehouses throughout the world. First introduced in the Netherlands in 2012, “VIC” is a mascot (that stands for “Veiligheid Is Cruciaal” in Dutch or “safety is crucial”) omnipresent on all posters, documents and charts on accident-prevention. The campaign has made an impact as safety results have shown a significant improvement in this Line of Business. Distribution & Express, meanwhile, launched a poster campaign in which individual members of the Management Board are pictured demonstrating good safety practices on the road and in the warehouse, using personal protective equipment correctly, climbing into the cab safely, etc. Awareness of safety issues is also the focus of a daily routine in which drivers are given a one and a half minute presentation of a safety topic. In Road Transport, drivers take part in quarterly safety meetings which mainly focus on safe driving, with agenda linked to the record of accidents observed. There is also a reminder on good practices, such as adapting your driving style in winter conditions, fog, etc. Training & Development GEODIS is committed to ensuring that employees have access to development opportunities and that everyone is assured equal opportunities. Training is encouraged across the whole Group, and numerous options are available. Employees are offered programs covering a broad array of topics, some specific to their Line of Business, others concerning management techniques, the acquisition of specialized skills, personal development and foreign languages, development and foreign languages. Alongside conventional classroom training, there is a growing emphasis on e-learning. “G-Campus” is a worldwide platform that has been available since 2011 to all employees with computer access. It provides three kinds of modules: off-the-shelf training packages covering general management topics such as gender diversity and the principles of CSR, corporate issues such as ethics, and mainly technical packages devised by individual Lines of Business. Among the most popular e-learning themes in 2014 were gender equality and CSR. Gender Equality GEODIS seeks to promote diversity and gender equality in all its Lines of Business, including those perceived as predominantly masculine. It introduced the Equalis policy in 2012, launching a campaign for units to be certified for compliance with the GEES/GEIS (Gender Equality European/International Standard) label, a continuous improvement process. In 2014, Australia, Canada, Hong Kong, Mexico and the Netherlands were added to the list of countries certified by external auditors for their handling of gender equality issues. May 2014 saw the first anniversary of the GEODIS Women’s Network, which is linked to the network “SNCF au Féminin”. The GEODIS Women’s Network, created in 2013 at the instigation of CEO Marie-Christine Lombard, aims at making the Group more attractive to women and developing the potential of women within the Group by helping with their career development. For example, in 2014 it set up a program in which members of the Executive Committee mentored 24 female managers on a one-on-one basis. It also organized a series of workgroups to reflect on the Group’s 7 Golden Rules and gave presentations to senior management. Whenever possible, GEODIS introduces measures according to local needs to help ease the work/life balance for people with families. For instance, local daycare solutions can be offered. GEODIS 2014 Communication on Progress – 30 April 2015 Page 7 Action Responsible procurement : raising awareness and assessing suppliers and subcontractors on their CSR performance Related Principles of the Global Compact: Human Rights • Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and • Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labour • Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; • Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; • Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and • Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment • Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; • Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and • Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-Corruption • Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery.  The annual purchases of GEODIS amount to more than €4 billion (including transport services). Its suppliers and subcontractors therefore represent a strategic source of leverage for improving GEODIS’ CSR performance. Selection and Evaluation of Partners on a CSR Basis Since 2011, social, environmental and ethical criteria have been systematically included in calls for tender, analysis grids and standard contracts. Although CSR criteria are generally not considered as grounds for rejecting bids, they are considered as important factors when selecting new suppliers. All other categories of purchases that GEODIS requires for its daily operations have the potential to improve CSR performance. Purchases of real estate, fuel, packaging, consumables, vehicles and travel as well as the hiring of temporary workers have been targeted in recent years with actions to reduce their environmental impact. Assessment of Partners, a Potential to Leverage Performance To enhance and facilitate the selection process, GEODIS joined EcoVadis in 2011, an independent body that evaluates the CSR commitment of thousands of suppliers in 150 business sectors in over 90 countries. The assessment includes questions on environmental, social and ethical subjects. It is based on a reference system consistent with international standards such as ISO 26000 and the Global Reporting Initiative. In 2014, the Freight Forwarding Line of Business continued to evaluate its main air and sea carriers (transport subcontractors). Improving subcontractors’ social and environmental performance is crucial for improving both the Group’s own performance and that of its customers. While subcontractors account for more than half of the Group’s purchasing, they are also responsible for a major part of the greenhouse gas emissions generated by its activities (based on the calculation of GEODIS’ carbon footprint in 2010, they accounted for 87% of the Group’s greenhouse gases). GEODIS 2014 Communication on Progress – 30 April 2015 Page 8 Action Acting for climate and energy transition Related Principles of the Global Compact: • Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and • Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. In common with all operators in the international transport industry, GEODIS constantly endeavors to reduce its carbon footprint and limit its greenhouse gas emissions Measuring and Reducing Emissions In 2012, the Group initiated the integration and deployment of the EcoTransIT World tool within its IT solutions. The purpose of the tool is to measure emissions of greenhouse gases and atmospheric pollutants for all means of transport and all geographical areas. It is aligned with the European standard EN 16258 for calculating greenhouse gas emissions in the transport sector common to all European countries. GEODIS is able to ensure that all transport flow segments are covered by a proven method of calculation. The Group is implementing a global, harmonized response that enables it to measure and manage its carbon footprint and to supply customers with reporting data on the emissions generated by their freight flows, as required by French legislation in force since October 2013. In compliance with the same French legislation, the Distribution & Express Line of Business in France also reports its CO2 emissions to customers since October 2013. While providing them with the compulsory data free of charge, it has also implemented a more sophisticated analysis available as an option. GEODIS is committed to developing alternative low-carbon transport solutions, and is one of the sector’s leading specialists in this area. The Group is progressively replacing vehicles in its fleet with more efficient ones in terms of emissions performance, and is developing the use of low-pollution vehicles (hybrid, natural gas and electric), particularly within cities. It endeavors not only to limit its impact on climate change, but also to reduce the impact of pollutants on air quality. Cooperation throughout the Industry Reducing greenhouse gas emissions requires a collective effort by all players, both carriers and customers. For this reason, the Group is involved in various sectoral initiatives around the world to improve the environmental performance of transport. Throughout 2014, GEODIS was closely involved in the following programs:  EcoTransIT World Initiative, a consortium in which numerous logistics operators collaborate on calculating and reducing the environmental impact of freight transport;  Green Freight Europe, a collaborative platform bringing together carriers and shipping customers;  SmartWay USA, a program set up by the Environmental Protection Agency in the US that aims to help the freight industry improve supply chain efficiency. GEODIS actively participates in expanding this program to SmartWay Canada;  Transporte Limpio in Mexico, a government program for the certification of carriers actively seeking to cut their CO2 emissions. Starting in 2015, the Group is taking part in work carried out by the Global Logistics Emissions Council, run by the Smart Freight Centre, which aims to make the global freight sector efficient and environmentally sustainable; Club Demeter Environnement et Logistique, a French organization for supply chain players, and the Clean Cargo Working Group, an international body for cargo carriers and their customers focusing on marine container transport. All these bodies work closely with the Transport and Logistics sector as well as with shipping customers on reducing emissions of greenhouse gases and other pollutants. GEODIS 2014 Communication on Progress – 30 April 2015 Page 9 GEODIS 2014 Communication on Progress – 30 April 2015 Page 10 Action Reducing our Environmental Footprint Related Principles of the Global Compact: Environment • Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; • Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and • Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Controlling the Environmental Impact of Sites and Buildings GEODIS disposes of a wide-array of buildings and worksites: Head offices, sales offices, Logistics warehouses and Distribution platforms. The Group is striving to limit the environmental impact of its sites. Based on the ISO 14001 standard, the environmental management system includes measures to minimize the consumption of gas, electricity and water, manage waste and constantly train staff on these subjects. By the end of 2014, 39% of the Group’s 687 sites had ISO 14001 certification, compared with 38% at the end of 2013. GEODIS is increasingly committed to a triple QSE certification approach, with facilities applying for Quality certification (ISO 9001) and Safety certification (OHSAS 18001) as well as Environmental certification (ISO 14001). By the end of 2014, 20% of the Group’s sites obtained triple-certification: ISO 9001, OHSAS 18001 and ISO 14001. Depending on their specialist activities, some sites from different Lines of Business are certified ISO 22000 (food safety), ISO TS 16949 (automotive quality compliance), TAPA (freight security standard), Certipharm (quality in the healthcare sector), AEO (Agreed Economic Operator for customs formalities), or are assessed in terms of SQAS (safety and quality in the chemicals industry). Economic and Environmental Benefit Because GEODIS rents the majority of its buildings, the actions it can take to enhance their environmental performance are sometimes limited. Measures to save energy on lighting are considered whenever feasible. New sites using LED lighting opened in France and in Italy in 2014. Decisions on converting the lighting systems in established sites are taken in line with financial and environmental criteria, as such solutions offer lower power consumption despite higher initial installation cost (the investment has to be amortized by cost savings before the end of a lease period, for instance). In 2014, GEODIS started preparing for a new French regulation that will make energy audits mandatory. The first wave of audits on a few dozen sites will be performed by December 1, 2015. Limiting Fuel Consumption and Polluting Emissions GEODIS owns and operates fleets of vehicles in its Road Transport and Distribution & Express Lines of Business. It assumes its responsibility for limiting polluting emissions. As a transport operator, GEODIS is fully aware of the harm caused to the environment by greenhouse gases, most notably carbon dioxide, which are causing climate change, and by local pollutants, such as carbon monoxide, nitrogen oxides and particulates, which affect air quality and human health. The Latest European Standards for Vehicles Most of GEODIS’ fleet uses combustion engines. The Group is progressively upgrading its vehicles so that an increasing number of them are compliant with Euro 5 and Euro 6 emission standards. By the end of 2014, 79% of the GEODIS’ 4,631 vehicles were Euro 5/6-compliant and 2% were EEV (Environmentally Enhanced Vehicles, such as those running on electricity, natural gas or hybrid vehicles). Less Polluting Fuels In a effort to reduce environmental impact as much as possible, the Group uses “clean” vehicles (electric and compressed natural gas), especially in urban environments, whenever it is technically feasible (e.g. for shortrange journeys) and economically viable. Since reducing fuel consumption results in curbing polluting emissions, the Group has regularly trialed features and technologies that can help economize fuel, including engine governors to limit speed to 82 km/h, energy-saving tires, automated manual transmission, roof and side deflectors and side fairings. Heavy trucks are also equipped with Eliot software designed to improve fuel economy. The benefits of lower fuel consumption are, of course, economic as well as environmental. GEODIS 2014 Communication on Progress – 30 April 2015 Page 11 Introducing smart and environment-friendly solutions The Group’s expertise in multimodal transport management maximizes its customers’ performance and offers the greatest possible protection for the environment, whether it is transporting freight halfway round the world or organizing city-center last-mile delivery. The Megacities Project: Another Approach to Urban Logistics In 2014, an international team involving all five Lines of Business began studying opportunities for the Group to offer tailored services for the world’s largest cities (those with more than 10 million inhabitants). Opportunities and challenges surrounding urban logistics are critical for GEODIS. Efficient last-mile delivery is vital for its customers’ own CSR policies and for their image with their own customers. Moreover, today urban freight represents 20% of urban traffic but accounts for 25% of congestion and 40% of pollution. The last-mile delivery market is expected to expand 2.5 times by 2020 (source: Frost & Sullivan). From a social point of view, new forms of consumption and of shopping are creating totally new needs. The Megacities project team decided to focus on pilot cities where GEODIS is already well established and has a good understanding of local needs, such as Paris, Mexico and Shanghai. In these cities, GEODIS’ offer can include urban logistics consulting for prescriber institutions and authorities, creation and management of urban consolidated centers (platforms in the outskirts of cities for last-mile delivery to shopping centers, hospitals, airports, rail stations, etc.), and a range of dedicated solutions (natural gas, electric, cargo bikes, etc.). GEODIS also has a proven track record of environmentally-friendly Tailored Solutions for Freight Transport As part of the SNCF Railway Group, GEODIS has the unique capacity of managing its customers’ end-to-end logistic flow. The Group’s expertise and network have made multimodal transport an asset for its customers and the environment. Transport means are combined to bring a tailored solution to each customer corresponding to the goods transported. Delivery deadlines and commercial pressures can make air transport the chosen solution for intercontinental freight, but when supply chain constraints allow more time for freight transit, sea transport may be preferable, as the environmental impact is reduced. When and where possible, solutions include combined sea and air transport for international flows, combined railroad transport, the use of rail motorways, an emphasis on rail for shipments to city centers and greener urban logistics. In line with this trend, GEODIS is developing new solutions, such as its new China-to-France rail offer, or cargo bikes and electric vehicles for deliveries in city centers. GEODIS 2014 Communication on Progress – 30 April 2015 Page 12 Action Encouraging Social Commitment and Environmental Conservation Related Principles of the Global Compact: Human Rights • Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and • Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labour • Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; • Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; • Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and • Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment • Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; • Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and • Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-Corruption • Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. As a global operator, GEODIS fully assumes its responsibility to provide support to disadvantaged sections of the population in the local communities in which it is based and to play its part in initiatives to help protect the planet. GEODIS actively supports humanitarian and environmental causes, providing skills and facilities to help those in need. Moreover, the Group creates opportunities for employees to take part in these ventures. Through their commitment, employees take pride in acting for the benefit of society and the environment. As part of its social commitment, GEODIS encourages entrepreneurship projects and initiatives carried out by the disabled. In 2014, the Group funded three projects in France: raising awareness on discrimination, supporting battered disabled women, and a directory of handicap-friendly Initiatives across the Group Fighting against exclusion and preserving natural resources were two recurrent themes of the Happy GEODIS Week that took place between June and October 2014. Employees were asked to submit social or environmental initiatives. The operation was based on an idea suggested by the GEODIS Women’s Network. The Triboulo project, one of the winning entries, was from a Distribution & Express depot in Northern France. It promotes the notion of a circular economy: employees are invited to deposit second-hand clothes, shoes, etc. in collection boxes on the site. Money raised by this venture provides truck driver training for the long-term unemployed. Another winning entry was the Green Guide devised by the Contract Logistics Line of Business in Germany. This is a compendium of good practices and environmentally responsible behaviors that can be adopted by every employee with the aim of conserving natural resources. Support for Handicap International Meanwhile, at corporate level, GEODIS signed a partnership agreement in 2014 with Handicap International, an non-profit organization that supports people with disabilities and other vulnerable populations living in conflict and disaster zones and in situation of exclusion and extreme poverty. The Group pledged to give €1 for every complete customer satisfaction survey submitted in 2014. GEODIS participated in funding a Handicap International program in Indonesia, giving 360 disabled children access to school. A local example: Aid for children in Uganda “Les Écoliers de Kampala” (Schoolchildren of Kampala) is an association founded in France that seeks to improve the living conditions and education of children who live in areas of urban poverty in Uganda. It helps provide children with clothes, toys and clean water, as well as the school facilities that help some of the world’s most underprivileged children. The Freight Forwarding Line of Business transported a consignment of 240 articles of clothing, shoes and toys donated to the charity in France to Uganda free of charge. They were distributed to orphans in Mityana and to children for whom a school has just been built in Mulago, one of the slums of Kampala. GEODIS 2014 Communication on Progress – 30 April 2015 Page 13 A local example: Caring for the community in Argentina Members of the Freight Forwarding and Supply Chain Optimization Lines of Business in Argentina are playing their part in supporting disadvantaged people in Buenos Aires. A group of six employees raise funds for a kindergarten for poor families. They organize a collection among the personnel once a month, and the sum collected is matched by GEODIS. The money is used to buy supplies and equipment for children between the ages of a few months and five years. In another community project, a team of volunteers holds weekly meetings for the homeless, the elderly, single mothers and families in difficulty to help them find solutions to make their lives less difficult. GEODIS 2014 Communication on Progress – 30 April 2015 Page 14 GEODIS outlooks for 2015-2016 GEODIS is committed to pursuing its effort in CSR in 2015. GEODIS 2014 Communication on Progress – 30 April 2015 Page 15 GEODIS measures its progress through social and environmental indicators. 2014 CSR indicators will be available on www.geodis.com from June 2015. Social Indicators GEODIS 2014 Communication on Progress – 30 April 2015 Page 16 Certifications Environmental Indicators GEODIS 2014 Communication on Progress – 30 April 2015 Page 17 For more information All the 2014 CSR indicators, as well as details of the reporting methodology (scope of the reporting, process for collecting and consolidating data, choice of indicators, limitations of the methodology, checks and verification of indicators) and correspondence with the Global Reporting Initiative (G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines) are available on www.geodis.com GEODIS 2014 Communication on Progress – 30 April 2015 Page 18
