CODE of conduct Hilton Worldwide 7930 Jones Branch Drive McLean, VA 22102 United States Team Members, How the world perceives Hilton Worldwide and our hotels is the key to our past, present and future success, and every one of our Team Members is personally responsible for creating a culture focused on our Values of Hospitality, Integrity, Leadership, Teamwork, Ownership and Now. Our Team Members are the key to upholding Hilton Worldwide’s reputation as the preeminent global hospitality company and fulfilling our commitment to these Values. The Hilton Worldwide Code of Conduct holds us to the highest ethical standards, particularly during challenging situations. The Code applies to all Team Members at our corporate offices as well as our owned and managed properties worldwide, ensuring a globally consistent culture of integrity. Thank you for reviewing and living by the Code of Conduct as we collectively further our Vision to “fill the earth with the light and warmth of hospitality.” Sincerely, Chris Nassetta President & Chief Executive Officer Hilton Worldwide CODE OF CONDUCT WHO WE ARE Our Vision To fill the earth with the light and warmth of hospitality. Our Mission We will be the preeminent global hospitality company — the first choice of guests, Team Members and owners alike. Our Values Hospitality We are passionate about delivering exceptional guest experiences. Integrity We do the right thing, all the time. Leadership We are leaders in our industry and in our communities. Teamwork We are team players in everything we do. Ownership We are the owners of our actions and decisions. Now We operate with a sense of urgency and discipline. CODE OF CONDUCT TABLE OF CONTENTS CULTURE OF INTEGRITY Business Courtesies Conflicts of Interest Who Must Follow this Code of Conduct? Financial Obligations Our Code of Conduct — Like Our Company — is Global Purchasing Practices Expectations of Team Members Corporate Opportunities Additional Expectations of Hilton Leaders Bribery and Other Corrupt Practices Seeking Guidance Creating and Maintaining Accurate Business Records Speaking Up Non-Retaliation Providing Accurate Information to the Government Respecting Confidentiality Complimentary Treatment and Entertaining of Union Officials Investigations of Reports Violations of the Code of Conduct GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP OUR TEAM MEMBERS Human Rights Prohibition Against Human Trafficking Diversity Commitment to the Environment Harassment-Free Workplace and Non-Discrimination Commitment to our Communities Safe and Healthy Work Environment Boycotts Trade Embargoes and Export Controls BUSINESS ETHICS Anti-Money Laundering Fair Dealing Political Involvement Advertising and Marketing Government Relations and Compliance with Competition and Antitrust United States Lobbying Laws Protecting Hilton Assets Protecting and Using Information ADMINISTERING THIS CODE Communicating About Hilton Waivers Insider Trading Additional Guidance CODE OF CONDUCT Culture of Integrity The reputation of Hilton and each of our Hotels is the key to our past, present and future success. We are each personally responsible for acting with integrity in order both to enhance Hilton’s reputation and to maintain a healthy work environment. Integrity means doing what’s right, all the time, and encouraging those around us to do the same. This Code of Conduct provides guidance about how we all must work together to maintain the highest ethical standards in the hospitality business. It describes some of the most important standards that we all must follow. It discusses how to report concerns and seek guidance. And, most importantly, it describes our unwavering commitment to integrity and conducting our business in compliance with the law. This culture of integrity that governs our interactions with each other, our guests, our business partners, and the communities where we operate is the key to our Mission to be the preeminent hospitality company. CODE OF CONDUCT Table of Contents Culture of Integrity CULTURE OF INTEGRITY Our Code of Conduct – Like Expectations of All One of Hilton’s core Our Company – Is Global Team Members Hilton does business all over the world. As a Hilton Team Member, you are Values is Integrity. We abide by our high standards of expected to: We do the right thing, business ethics everywhere we operate. • Uphold the highest standards of ethical all the time. The Code and our commitment are conduct in every action you take on clear – we comply with all applicable Hilton’s behalf. laws. Sometimes, our standards • Know the rules and laws that govern exceed those requirements, but your work, and follow them. they NEVER fall below them. • Ask questions and seek guidance when you are uncertain about the right Our Code and our policies are designed course of action. to uphold local laws. However, situations • Report issues or concerns when may arise where non-U.S. and U.S. laws they arise. Who Must Follow conflict, or where local law seems to this Code of Conduct? conflict with this Code. If you believe this This Code of Conduct is applicable to is the case, contact Hilton Legal. all employees, officers, and directors of Hilton Worldwide Holdings Inc. and The Code cannot, of course, cover every its subsidiaries (collectively, “Hilton”), applicable law or every workplace and to the employees of all hotels situation that might arise. The Code is owned, operated or managed by Hilton. instead a resource for general guidance Within this Code, we collectively refer on what conduct is expected of you and to all who must follow its principles where to go with questions or concerns. and policies as Team Members. For additional guidance, consult Hilton’s policies and seek advice from Hilton Legal or the Compliance Team. CODE OF CONDUCT Table of Contents 6 Culture of Integrity CULTURE OF INTEGRITY Additional Expectations of Seeking Guidance Reporting to the Hilton Hotline One of Hilton’s core Hilton Leaders This Code describes a number The Hilton Hotline is available online at In addition to the expectations that apply of policies, laws and regulations www.HiltonHotline.com. The Hotline Values is Ownership. to all Team Members, Hilton leaders applicable to Hilton Team Members is also accessible by telephone 24 hours We are the owners of have additional responsibilities under this around the world. Laws are often a day, 7 days a week (refer to telephone complex and their interpretation may our actions and decisions. Code. Hilton leaders must: numbers listed on the Hotline website • Demonstrate the highest standards depend on the particular facts and and printed materials at your workplace). of integrity – set the right example, circumstances at issue. If you have The Hotline is administered by an and others will follow your lead. questions about the Code or applicable independent third party that collects • Create a culture of compliance and laws or regulations, consult your information for transmission to the ensure that Team Members direct supervisor, next level manager, Compliance Team. understand that business results are Human Resources representative, or never more important than acting Hilton Legal. You should also consult In the United States and many other legally and ethically. Hilton Legal when developing new countries, you may report your concern • Discuss ethics and compliance topics business lines, processes and initiatives to the Hilton Hotline anonymously. with Team Members and ensure in order to ensure that such initiatives However, some countries limit the types that everyone on your team comply with applicable law. of issues that can be reported to the completes compliance training and Hotline and whether reports can be other compliance requirements. Speaking Up made anonymously. Of course, Hilton • Create an environment where Team Team Members are expected to report respects the local laws that govern Members are comfortable speaking suspected misconduct. Only by speaking our Hotline. See the Hotline website up, and be available to receive reports up when we suspect potential violations and printed materials for additional of potential violations of the Code or of law or policy can Hilton address issues information regarding how to use the applicable laws. before they become bigger problems. Hilton Hotline in your location. • Ensure that reports of suspected There are several places for you to raise violations are brought to the attention compliance concerns: of the Hilton Compliance Team immediately. In your workplace • Protect reporting Team Members You can report issues to your direct from retaliation, and safeguard the supervisor, next level manager, Human confidentiality of investigations. Resources representative, or any other Hilton leader. They will help ensure that your concern is routed to the Compliance Team for review and response. Team Members may also contact Hilton Legal or the Compliance Team directly. CODE OF CONDUCT Table of Contents 7 Culture of Integrity CULTURE OF INTEGRITY Non-Retaliation Violations of What happens when I call the When faced with a decision-making At Hilton, we strive to create a culture in the Code of Conduct Hilton Hotline? dilemma, ask yourself the following which Team Members can ask questions Any violation of the laws or policies When you call the Hilton Hotline, it is questions. If you cannot answer and raise concerns without fear of described in this Code, or other improper answered by a call specialist who works “yes” to each and every one of retaliation. Hilton prohibits retaliation and unlawful conduct, may subject a for the independent third party provider them, do not take the action at against anyone for reporting a concern in Team Member to disciplinary action, up that operates the line. That person will issue. good faith or assisting in an investigation. to and including termination and possibly listen, will likely ask you some questions, • Is the action legal? Subject to applicable law, retaliation is legal action, subject to applicable law and will make a detailed summary of your • Is it ethical? grounds for disciplinary action, up to and and depending on the circumstances. call. The outside service will then forward • Is it socially responsible? including dismissal. Subject to applicable law, disciplinary the information to the Compliance Team, • Does it comply with the spirit and letter measures can also apply to any manager who will decide how to handle your report of this Code and the Hilton Values? Respecting Confidentiality or supervisor who directs, approves or or question. Every effort will be made to • Will this action appear to others to be Hilton will take steps to protect the condones violations, or has knowledge of give your call a quick response, especially appropriate? (Would your family be confidentiality of anyone who makes violations and does not promptly report when circumstances make that important. embarrassed if this action were to a good faith report of an actual or and correct them. If an investigation is undertaken, Hilton become known publicly? Would it look suspected violation, to the extent will look into the issue promptly and, bad in the newspaper?) reasonably possible. QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS whenever called for, see that corrective If I report something that seems action is taken. If, after going through the above Investigations of Reports suspicious, but it turns out that questions, you still have doubts about At Hilton, we take reports of suspected nothing was wrong, will I get the best course of action, consult your misconduct seriously. We investigate Each of us is responsible for putting this in trouble? supervisor, the Compliance Team, or the reports as appropriate, and we maintain Code to work, but we do not have to do No. Team Members are expected to raise other resources discussed in this Code. confidentiality to the extent possible, it alone. There are a number of people consistent with our need to conduct good faith concerns that something illegal who can answer our questions and guide an investigation. It is important that or unethical is occurring or has occurred. us through difficult decisions. When in Team Members not conduct their own The only reports that are discouraged are doubt, ask! preliminary investigations and not make those where the reporter intentionally legal or other conclusions about a set reports something they know to be false. of facts. Investigations often involve complex legal issues, and acting on your own can compromise an investigation and harm Hilton. If you are asked to assist with an investigation, cooperate with Hilton’s investigators and answer questions fully and truthfully. CODE OF CONDUCT Table of Contents 8 Our Team Members Every day, in every action we take, Team Members can have a direct impact on Hilton’s reputation. We should always behave in a manner that is consistent with Hilton’s Values in our business interactions. As global leaders in the hospitality business, we understand the importance of treating people well – all people and not simply our guests. Team Members are expected to familiarize themselves with and abide by the standards and policies maintained by the Hilton Human Resources Department. CODE OF CONDUCT Table of Contents OUR TEAM MEMBERS OUR TEAM MEMBERS Harassment-Free Workplace Safe and Healthy Work One of Hilton’s core and Non-Discrimination Environment Hilton does not tolerate any form of Hilton is committed to the health and Values is Teamwork. harassment or discrimination based safety of our guests, Team Members and We are team players in on any characteristic protected business colleagues. Safety requires a everything we do. by applicable law. Any behavior, commitment from everyone. Each Team communication, or other conduct that Member is responsible for understanding creates an intimidating, offensive, abusive and complying with all applicable or hostile work environment, or that safety and health laws and guidelines. otherwise interferes with any Team In addition, we are each responsible for Member’s ability to perform his or her identifying and responding to health and job is unacceptable. safety hazards and security concerns. Diversity We are a company of diverse cultures QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS serving diverse guests. We seek to understand our unique global What are some examples communities, while developing culture, of harassment? talent and marketplace strategies Harassment can take many forms including: that cultivate a work environment of • Written or verbal abuse or threats; inclusiveness. We will maintain our • Unwelcome remarks, jokes, slurs or competitive position by applying our core taunting of a discriminatory nature; Values; attracting the best and brightest • Practical jokes that embarrass or talent; and, valuing and leveraging the insult someone; diversity of our Team Members, guests, • Ignoring, isolating or segregating suppliers, partners and owners. a person; • Materials that are of a discriminatory FOR MORE INFORMATION nature that are displayed publicly or EQUAL EMPLOYMENT circulated in the workplace; or, OPPORTUNITY POLICY • Unwanted physical contact. FOR MORE INFORMATION Harassment and ViolenceFree Workplace Policy CODE OF CONDUCT Table of Contents 10 Business Ethics Hilton has a long history of succeeding through honest business competition. Our Team Members are expected to act with the highest standard of integrity when conducting Hilton business. We compete for business on the basis of price, service and quality, and we award business on the same basis. Our business decisions are based on Hilton’s best interests and are always consistent with our Values. CODE OF CONDUCT Table of Contents Business Ethics BUSINESS ETHICS Fair Dealing Competition and Antitrust DO NOT One of Hilton’s core Hilton strives to deal fairly with guests, Hilton is committed to complying with all business partners, competitors and applicable antitrust laws and regulations, • Engage in discussions with Values is Hospitality. Team Members. We do not take including federal and state antitrust laws competitors that could be viewed We are passionate about unfair advantage of anyone through in the U.S. as well as competition laws in as even an informal agreement other countries where we do business. regarding competitive issues. delivering exceptional manipulation, concealment, abuse of privileged information, misrepresentation These laws are designed to promote • Share non-public, price-related or guest experiences. of material facts, or any other unfaircompetition and protect consumers. occupancy related information And we do it legally dealing practice. with competitors. Team Members must not propose • Enter into agreements with and ethically. or engage in any formal or informal suppliers or customers that agreements, understandings, meetings, improperly restrict competition. discussions, communications, or information exchanges with competitors DO or potential competitors regarding • Compete vigorously with your competitively sensitive issues unless competitors. consistent with our internal policies. • Notify Hilton Legal immediately if you believe that you have received This includes sharing information competitively sensitive or trade about price, terms of sale, distribution secret information from a or allocation of territories, products, competitor. Advertising and Marketing customers or suppliers. Under no Our advertising and marketing activities circumstances should you gain access are intended to be truthful, accurate, to or use competitor information, or and not deceptive or misleading, any other information, in a manner that whether we are talking about ourselves would suggest an agreement between or about our competitors. Team Hilton and any competitor to: Members involved with or responsible • Fix, stabilize or control prices; for Hilton marketing and advertising • Allocate products, markets practices must be familiar with and or territories; comply at all times with all applicable • Boycott certain customers or laws regarding these practices. suppliers; or, • Refrain from the sale of any product. CODE OF CONDUCT Table of Contents 12 Business Ethics BUSINESS ETHICS QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS Protecting Hilton Assets DO NOT When it comes to agreements with It is critical that you protect Hilton competitors, the prohibition on I am scheduled to attend an assets by using them responsibly, • Use Hilton resources or time to sharing information about prices is industry conference where many of efficiently and only for legitimate conduct outside work. broadly defined to include a number my professional counterparts from business purposes. Hilton assets • Use Hilton property to promote your of different Hilton examples: Hilton competitors will be present include tangible items, technology own interests or provide benefits to • Rates (e.g., group rates, advertised to share information about industry assets, and intellectual property. friends or relatives. rates, average rates, timeshare rates trends and challenges. What areas • Use Hilton assets to send, receive and prices); of conversation do I need to be Tangible items include cash, equipment, or access unlawful materials or • Price lists, discounts credit terms, other careful about? inventory and supplies. Technology unlawfully copy software, music, terms or conditions of sale; You are free to engage in networking assets include computers, software, books or other legally protected • Occupancy rates; with your peers from competitors as telephones and networks. Intellectual works. • Complimentary room policies long as you do not exchange information property includes items such as • Margins, commissions, rebates, that is subject to competition laws or trademarks, trade secrets, copyrights, DO promotions; confidential. A good rule of thumb is to ask patents, logos and confidential or • Protect Hilton property from misuse, • Banquet pricing; yourself whether what you are discussing proprietary information. All Hilton assets damage, or theft. • Deposits, surcharges, price ranges, with an industry peer is the sort of thing must be protected from misuse, damage, • Ensure that travel and expenditures minimum or maximum prices, you would normally consider discussing misappropriation or theft, and Hilton on behalf of Hilton are undertaken price formulas; and, with someone whose objective is to take assets should never be used for personal with appropriate approval and • The timing of a rate increase business away from you and Hilton. If the gain or unlawful purposes. Remember documentation. (or decrease). answer is no, avoid the discussion. that theft, carelessness and waste have a FOR MORE INFORMATION direct impact on our bottom line. Travel and Expense FOR MORE INFORMATION Reimbursement Policy Global Antitrust and You are expected to exercise appropriate Competition Policy judgment in your use of Hilton assets, including but not limited to e-mail and the Internet. Where legally permissible, we reserve the right to review all Internet searches, e-mail communications and other activities that Team Members perform using Hilton assets. When you leave Hilton, you must return all Hilton property. CODE OF CONDUCT Table of Contents 13 Business Ethics BUSINESS ETHICS Examples of sensitive third party QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS DO NOT information include: A new Team Member who came to • Use any third party confidential • Strategic plans and presentations; Hilton from another hotel company information that you may have from • RFP, RFI or RFQ responses; mentioned that he could modify a former employer or that you may • Non-public information about business some strategic planning materials receive purposefully or inadvertently partners, customers, and vendors; that he prepared for his former during the course of business. • Information subject to a non-disclosure employer to save time in pulling • Do not solicit confidential agreement; together a Hilton presentation. information from a third party except • Any third party information marked Would he be doing anything wrong? pursuant to an express agreement confidential or proprietary or similarly Yes. Team Members are strictly prohibited and in consultation with Hilton Legal. marked materials; Protecting and from possessing confidential materials • Any material on the letterhead or DO Using Information from their former employers, and Hilton’s containing logos or other owned Hilton is committed to safeguarding onboarding procedures require new Team • Be mindful of the various sources marks of a third party that is not and handling third party information Members to certify that they have no by which third party confidential publicly available; in accordance with applicable laws, such information. This matter should be information may come to Team • Private information about guests; and, our policies, contractual obligations, reported to Hilton Legal immediately. Members and systems. • Personally identifiable information and in a manner that protects privacy, • Immediately contact Hilton Legal if (e.g., social security numbers and credit preserves customer and Team Member you are concerned that you may card information) of guests and business Recently, my favorite celebrity trust, and meets our shareholders’ have received unauthorized third partners. stayed at a hotel where I am the expectations. Hilton does not tolerate party confidential information. Front Desk Manager. The celebrity the inappropriate acquisition, possession • Immediately report to ISC@hilton.com agreed to take a picture with me. or use of proprietary, confidential or any concern that personal Can I post the picture on my social trade secret information of Hilton’s information in Hilton’s custody or media site? competitors or other third parties, control has been acquired, modified, No. We take the privacy of our guests such as vendors, suppliers, owners and used, disclosed or accessed by any seriously and protect their personal former employers. In addition, Hilton is unauthorized person, or by any information as if it were our own. committed to collecting, safeguarding person in an unauthorized manner or Information, including the fact that the and using personal information in a for an unauthorized purpose. celebrity was our guest, must be protected reasonable manner in accordance with and should not be shared publicly. laws and in order to fulfill legitimate business purposes. CODE OF CONDUCT Table of Contents 14 Business Ethics DO NOT DO NOT BUSINESS ETHICS Hilton also has a strong interest in protecting its own information. • Disclose confidential Hilton • Comment on or substantively Team Members must maintain the information to those who do not respond to inquiries or rumors confidentiality of non-public Hilton have a need to know. regarding material non-public information except when disclosures • Disclose confidential Hilton information. are authorized or legally required. information to third parties without • Communicate with the media, Confidential information includes all nona non-disclosure agreement. market professionals or securities public information that might be of use • Forward or share information holders regarding material nonto competitors, or harmful to Hilton or its marked “legally privileged” or the like public information. customers, if disclosed. Team Members with colleagues outside Hilton should be mindful of how they store and without first seeking guidance from Communicating about Hilton DO share Hilton confidential information Hilton Legal. As a publicly-traded company, Hilton is • Refer inquiries about material nonand should maintain all Hilton business committed to providing accurate and public information to an authorized records in accordance with Hilton’s DO complete information to the public in disclosure spokesperson. records retention policies. • Maintain Hilton’s confidential compliance with legal requirements and • Continue to conduct ordinary course, information in a secure manner, consistent with our Vision, Mission, and routine business communications Examples of Hilton information that such that it can only be accessed Values. Only authorized spokespersons with other Team Members and must be protected include: or disclosed by those who require may communicate material non-public outside parties regarding topics that • Information about Hilton development, access to perform the business information or Hilton’s official position do not include material non-public or operations, or financial performance; activities for which the information on topics such as financial performance, otherwise confidential information. • Competitive information, including exists. business strategy, development plans, FOR MORE INFORMATION pricing, occupancy rates, and • Clearly mark documents containing operations status, legal matters and Public Communications, promotional strategies; confidential Hilton information as public policy issues. Hilton policies Public Disclosure and • Information about potential innovations “Confidential and Proprietary.” designate particular Team Members who Regulation FD Policy in Hilton hotels or brands; • Immediately notify Hilton Legal are authorized to act as representatives Communications Policy and • The terms and structure of Hilton if you believe confidential Hilton of Hilton in sharing information with Social Media Guidelines contracts and financing agreements; information has been lost, misplaced, the news media, government officials, accessed by an unauthorized person shareholders, analysts and other external Confidential Information • Information related to Hilton software, and Trade Secrets Policy databases and other systems, including or inadvertently disclosed. stakeholders. Requests for financial or their structure and content; other information about Hilton from FOR MORE INFORMATION • Customer lists; and, the media, the financial community, Confidential Information • Information marked confidential, and Trade Secrets Policy shareholders or the public should be privileged, or proprietary. referred to Corporate Communications. Information Privacy Policy Requests for information from regulators or the government should be referred to Hilton Legal. Record Retention Policy CODE OF CONDUCT Table of Contents 15 Business Ethics BUSINESS ETHICS Insider Trading Business Courtesies Material information may include In the course of your job, you may learn Giving or accepting gifts, meals, travel, positive or negative information of material information about Hilton entertainment, favors or other items of that could be important for an or other companies before it is made value (“business courtesies”) is often a investor to consider in making an public. This is often referred to as “inside part of building business relationships. investment decision regarding the information.” Using this information for However, these business courtesies can purchase or sale of Hilton securities. your personal benefit or sharing this also improperly influence our business Such information is considered information with others is a violation decisions, and they can create the “inside information” and may not of this Code and possibly the law. This appearance of impropriety. You must be shared or used for personal prohibition applies to the buying or use common sense and good judgment investment decisions when it selling of securities of any company to avoid even the perception that any has not yet been made generally about which you have inside information, business courtesy – even business available to the investing public. not just Hilton. This prohibition also DO NOT courtesies that otherwise comply with Examples include: applies to sharing material non-public • Purchase, sell or donate securities Hilton policies – has influenced or is • Key financial metrics and results, information with anyone who may base of Hilton or another company intended to influence your business including revenues, quarterly or annual financial decisions on inside information. while aware of material non-public judgment or the business judgment of results and pipeline; In short, do not act on inside information information. the recipient. • Guidance on earnings estimates or yourself, and do not share that • Disclose to any other person any changes in previously announced Generally speaking, you may accept information with others. material non-public information. earnings estimates; or offer business courtesies so long • Significant mergers, acquisitions, Team Members whose business activities DO as they are: dispositions, joint ventures or other • Legal; or position within Hilton expose them • Pay close attention to Hilton changes in Hilton assets; • Customary and commonly accepted; to material non-public information may notifications of trading restrictions. • New or significant changes to brands, • Intended to promote successful working be subject to additional requirements • Notify Hilton Legal immediately in products or business plans; relationships with persons or firms with related to the buying or selling of the event of an unintentional • Developments regarding significant whom Hilton maintains or may securities. Such Team Members must disclosure of material non-public customers or suppliers, or the acquisition establish a business relationship; review and abide by those requirements. information. or loss of a significant contract; • Not excessive in value; • Financings or other significant FOR MORE INFORMATION • Appropriate for the job function of transactions involving corporate debt; the recipient; Insider Trading Policy • Changes in management or control of • Not associated with purchasing, Hilton; and, procurement or contracting • Legal or regulatory matters. decisions; and, • Given and accepted without an express or implied understanding that the recipient is in any way obligated by acceptance of the gift. CODE OF CONDUCT Table of Contents 16 Business Ethics BUSINESS ETHICS Entertainment or gifts that are Team Members may never accept QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS • It involves cash or a cash equivalent extravagant in value or exclusive in offers of expense-paid trips for pleasure (such as a gift certificate). nature (such as Super Bowl or World from persons or firms that Hilton does I travel to a lot of different • It violates Hilton’s or the recipient Cup tickets) require special consideration or seeks to do business with. Hilton countries on behalf of Hilton, and I employer’s standards. to avoid the appearance of impropriety. business trips are just that, trips intended sometimes feel that I must accept a • It is part of a pattern of gifts or Such offers should not be accepted to conduct Hilton business or develop gift that may violate Hilton’s policy entertainment offered frequently by without prior approval of management Hilton business relationships. in order to not offend the people I the same supplier. and consultation with the Compliance am visiting. What should I do? Team to carefully consider the nature of As a result, only Hilton should pay for You should use your best judgment in such USUALLY ACCEPTABLE the business relationship with the entity/ the travel and lodging expenses of Team situations. If you feel that you cannot Common business courtesies that individual making the offer and the Members while on Hilton business with decline a gift without offending the giftare usually okay and do not ordinarily business role of the Hilton recipient. the following exceptions: giver, then you may accept the gift on require prior approval include: • Travel incident to the business event, behalf of Hilton and disclose the situation • Occasional meals with business Business courtesies face heightened such as transportation between to your supervisor and the Compliance partners. scrutiny when they involve government meeting sites. Team. The Compliance Team will then • Occasionally attending sports and officials. Hilton Team Members may • Travel and lodging in connection assist you in dealing with the situation. other cultural events with business never offer, promise, pay or authorize with an industry event, professional It may be appropriate to display the gift partners, if the business partner is in anything of value to a government association, or similar occasion where at one of our sites or to dispose of it by attendance and business is discussed. official or state owned entity unless the organizer is not a business partner donating it to charity. • Occasionally accepting reasonable permitted to do so by Hilton policies. of Hilton. and customary gifts. • Travel and lodging offered to a Team • Accepting promotional items of Team Members must never request gifts Member as a presenter at a conference NEVER ACCEPTABLE nominal value such as pens, notepads from business partners. When excessive where all presenters are offered the and coffee mugs. gifts are received, the item must be same as a matter of course. You should not give or accept a FOR MORE INFORMATION returned with a clear explanation business courtesy if: that the gift violates Hilton’s business Team Members whose job function • It violates the law. Anti-Corruption Policy courtesies policy. In some cases, it is customarily involves receipt of tips or • It might be construed as a condition acceptable for the item be donated to a gratuities (such as valet, bell captain, for something in return or as a bribe charity or displayed at a Hilton site. If this restaurant worker, guest room attendant or payoff. situation arises, consult the Compliance and housekeeper) may accept gifts and • It may be associated with ongoing Team for guidance. Hilton encourages gratuities from guests and customers in commercial negotiations. Team Members to share consumable connection with job performance. No • It involves sexually inappropriate or gifts that meet the “reasonable and Team Member having any control over offensive content (for example, taking not excessive” standard (such as food the terms of doing business with the a customer to a strip club). baskets) in a common work area. individual making the offer may accept any tip or gratuity. CODE OF CONDUCT Table of Contents 17 Business Ethics DO NOT BUSINESS ETHICS Conflicts of Interest Team Members may not use or attempt A conflict of interest occurs when a Team to use their position with Hilton to • Own or participate in a business Member’s personal interests interfere obtain any improper benefits for entity that operates in a competing or appear to interfere with Hilton’s themselves, their families, or anyone or complimentary business area interests. Team Members’ business else. For example, Team Members may with Hilton. decisions must be governed by sound not direct business to a company that • Take part in a Hilton business judgment and objectivity on behalf is owned by a family member or close decision that involves a company of Hilton, free from the influence of personal friend or use their position with with which you or your family personal interests. Even the appearance Hilton for personal benefit. members have a personal affiliation. of a conflict of interest can be harmful • Take part in a Hilton decision that to Hilton’s business reputation. Team QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS involves hiring or supervising a Members have a duty to avoid situations family member. that could cause someone to question We are looking for a company to their judgment or objectivity, and an supply our hotel with waste removal DO Financial Obligations obligation to disclose potential conflicts. services. We’ve already spent a lot • Avoid situations that could make You may not borrow money or become of time looking. My brother owns a someone question your judgment or indebted to any company or person doing Conflicts may arise from a number company that provides just this type objectivity on behalf of Hilton. or seeking to do business with Hilton of areas. Common conflicts that of service, and I know that he would • Disclose potential conflicts where doing so could create a risk of, or must be disclosed include: give us a good deal. Can’t we just use immediately. even the appearance of, impropriety or • Outside employment with, or having his company? lack of objectivity with respect to your or FOR MORE INFORMATION family members who are employed by, No. Hiring a company that your brother their dealings with Hilton. owns creates a conflict between your Family and Personal suppliers and other business partners. Relationships in the • Personal investments in a company desire to get the best deal for Hilton Workplace Policy Purchasing Practices that already is or seeks to become a and your desire to help your brother. If, We strive to be fair and impartial in supplier or business partner of Hilton. however, you disclose your relationship our dealings with suppliers and outside • Serving as a director, officer, employee with your brother’s company and remove contractors. Purchasing decisions must or consultant to an outside business yourself from the selection process, it may be based on legitimate, defined criteria, entity, including a non-profit, that be possible for his company to compete including quality, service levels and price. has the potential to compete with or do for the business along with other vendors, We honor the terms and conditions business in areas related to Hilton. so long as no one who reports to you is of contracts, pay in a timely manner, involved in the selection process and you and protect the confidentiality of the have approval from the Compliance Team proprietary information of suppliers and to submit his company’s name to the outside contractors. appropriate parties for consideration. CODE OF CONDUCT Table of Contents 18 Business Ethics BUSINESS ETHICS Corporate Opportunities Bribery Act. These anti-corruption laws Hilton similarly prohibits all commercial One of Hilton’s core You must not use Hilton property or prohibit Hilton from offering or giving bribes and kickbacks. We do not bribe information or your position with Hilton “anything of value” to a government government officials or anyone else. Values is Now. We for personal gain. You must not compete official or their family members to Hilton maintains a system of internal operate with a sense of against Hilton. Team Members have influence that person in his or her official controls to prevent and detect improper duties or to encourage improper or payments. Team Members are expected urgency and discipline. a duty to advance Hilton’s business interests whenever the opportunity unlawful conduct. to accurately record all business arises. Accordingly, you must not take transactions and keep complete books personal advantage of (or direct to a and records of business expenditures. third party) a business opportunity that Under U.S. and UK anti-bribery laws, is discovered through your position or the definition of a “government DO NOT use of Hilton property or information. official” is broad. It includes: • Offer or give a payment, gift or • any person acting in an official capacity anything of value to a government Bribery and for or on behalf of any government or official or any person to influence Other Corrupt Practices government agency, including official action or induce commercial Improper payments to gain business government employees; activities. advantages are never acceptable. Hilton • politicians, political party officials and • Do not authorize or approve a business strictly prohibits Team Members from candidates for public office; partner or any third party to take a giving, paying, offering or promising • the judiciary; and, corrupt action for the benefit of Hilton. anything of value to any person for the • directors, officers and employees of • Do not use your personal funds purpose of influencing official action or state-owned commercial enterprises, to provide anything of value to gaining an improper advantage. This such as state-owned airlines. government officials or other persons prohibition applies both to activities that are not allowed under undertaken directly by Team Members Hilton policies. and to activities that may be undertaken Under U.S. and UK anti-bribery laws, by third parties on behalf of Hilton. DO the definition of a “anything of value” is interpreted broadly to include • Conduct due diligence prior to Hilton is committed to conducting its both cash and non-cash benefits engaging any business partner who business in compliance with all laws such as: may interact with government prohibiting bribery and other corrupt • Travel; officials on behalf of Hilton. practices. As a U.S. based company, • Complimentary rooms or upgrades; • Notify Hilton Legal immediately in Hilton’s business operations around the • Hilton Honors points or status upgrades; the event of a concern about world must comply not only with local • Entertainment such as golf outings or improper payments. anti-corruption laws, but also with laws tickets to sporting events; that globally apply to Hilton’s business FOR MORE INFORMATION • Political or charitable donations; and, activities, such as the U.S. Foreign • Offers of employment or internships. Anti-Corruption Policy Corrupt Practices Act and the U.K. CODE OF CONDUCT Table of Contents 19 Business Ethics BUSINESS ETHICS Creating and Maintaining Complimentary Treatment and Accurate Business Records Entertaining of Union Officials It is Hilton’s policy to make full, fair, U.S. law prohibits Team Members from accurate, timely and understandable providing U.S. labor unions, officials, disclosures in compliance with and employees with money or other applicable laws and regulations things of value except under narrow and in all reports and documents that specifically authorized circumstances. Hilton files with, or submits to, the This prohibition extends to items Securities and Exchange Commission, provided using a Team Member’s state agencies, and in all other public personal funds. Violations may result communications made by Hilton. in civil or criminal penalties for Hilton and individual Team Members. Team Accurate business records are essential Members must act consistent with to maintaining the trust of our Providing Accurate Hilton policies in all of their interactions stakeholders. In addition, as a public Information to the with unions and union officials. company, Hilton is subject to a number Government FOR MORE INFORMATION of laws and regulations that govern We must always provide current, Complimentary Treatment our business records, including U.S. complete and accurate information to & Entertaining for Union securities laws. We must record Hilton’s any and all government agencies. False, Officials Policy financial activities in compliance with incomplete, inaccurate or misleading all applicable laws and accounting representations or certifications may practices. Team Members are expected result in serious legal risks both for the to provide complete and truthful individual involved and for Hilton. information in all business records. CODE OF CONDUCT Table of Contents 20 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP Hilton’s Values serve as the foundation for our dealings everywhere we do business. Our Team Members conduct Hilton business in a way that illustrates Hilton’s respect for the communities in which we operate and our commitment to do what’s right, all the time. Our corporate citizenship strategy Travel with Purpose balances the long-term sustainability of our business with current and future social, economic and sustainability needs of the communities we serve. CODE OF CONDUCT Table of Contents Global Citizenship GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP Human Rights Commitment to the One of Hilton’s core Hilton complies with the employment Environment and labor laws in every country and Protecting the environment is a Values is Leadership. region in which we operate. We support top priority for Hilton. Responsible We are leaders in our fundamental human rights for all people. environmental activity is good for both industry and in our our business and the communities we This means, among other things, that: serve. Hilton is committed to complying communities. • We will not employ individuals who are with all applicable environmental under 15 years of age or the lawful age laws and regulations wherever we do of employment (whichever is higher) business. We therefore expect Team in any country in which we operate. Members to properly handle, store And we expect our suppliers and and dispose of all hazardous materials business partners to commit to the and wastes, and to comply with all same threshold. Prohibition Against Human environmental permits that apply to • We comply with all wage and Trafficking Hilton equipment, operations or facilities. compensation requirements as Hilton condemns all forms of human defined under applicable local laws trafficking and commercial exploitation, Commitment to our and regulations, including those including the sexual exploitation of men, Communities relating to minimum wages, and women or children. As signatories of the As a world leader in travel and tourism, at a minimum provide legally ECPAT Tourism Child-Protection Code of Hilton recognizes our responsibility to mandated benefits. Conduct, we are fully committed, in each create shared value wherever we do • We will not exceed maximum hours of and every one of the markets in which business. We actively support a wide work defined by applicable law and will we operate, to protecting individuals variety of issues and organizations appropriately compensate overtime. from all forms of abuse and exploitation. material to our business and encourage • We will not use forced labor, including We expect our Team Members as well all of our Team Members to volunteer or prison, bonded or debt labor. as our business partners to help us meet participate in the economic and social • We will not allow physical punishment this commitment. Sex trafficking and development of their local communities or abuse of any Team Member. sexual tourism is a large and growing as they deem appropriate. • We respect the ability of Team problem worldwide, and Hilton must Members to exercise their lawful right never allow any Hilton properties, of free association. products, or services to be used in any • We respect the lawful rights of our manner that supports or enables any Team Members to choose (or form of abuse and exploitation. not choose) collective bargaining representation. CODE OF CONDUCT Table of Contents 22 Global Citizenship GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP Boycotts QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS DO NOT As a U.S. based company, Hilton’s • Proceed with a transaction prior to business operations worldwide must How do I know if I am dealing checking the counterparty against comply with U.S. antiboycott rules. with a counterparty that is subject the OFAC SDN list. These antiboycott rules may prohibit to sanctions? • Proceed with a transaction where us from, or impose tax penalties on us A good place to start is with the U.S. the counterparty may be linked for, participating in or cooperating with government’s Office of Foreign Assets to a country that is subject to broad foreign boycotts of countries that are Control (“OFAC”) list of Specially sanctions prohibitions. not approved by the U.S. government Designated Nationals (“SDNs”) that are (such as the Arab League boycott subject to sanctions. You can find the DO of Israel). U.S. antiboycott rules also most current version of the SDN List in • Take the time to know your impose regular reporting requirements Trade Embargoes searchable format at http://sdnsearch. counterparty – who they are, what with respect to the receipt of any and Export Controls ofac.treas.gov. Non-U.S. operations they do, where they are based and boycott-related requests (such as a Hilton is committed to conducting its may also be restricted from engaging in how they will interact with Hilton — question about whether Hilton does business in compliance with all applicable transactions involving parties designated in order to avoid becoming involved business with Israeli companies), often trade and financial sanctions imposed under local sanctions lists (e.g., European in a prohibited transaction without even if complying with such requests by the United Nations, United States, Union Designated Parties). In addition, realizing it. would otherwise be permissible. European Union and other authorities. certain countries are subject to very • Search the name of the counterparty As a U.S. based company, Hilton’s broad sanctions programs such that against the OFAC SDN List and QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS business operations in countries outside Hilton cannot engage in transactions determine whether the counterparty the U.S. must comply not only with local with any counterparties located or based has an address in or a national ID What are some examples of boycott sanctions but also take into account U.S. in such countries, the governments of issued by a country subject to broad requests that we cannot comply sanctions, which frequently apply to these countries or any entities owned, sanctions prohibitions. with and must report? activities and persons outside the U.S. controlled by or acting on behalf of Examples of boycott requests include those governments (e.g., state-owned FOR MORE INFORMATION the following: Sanctions restrict our ability to do enterprises). Hilton business travel to these Trade Sanctions Policy • Certify that certain goods are not of business with certain individuals countries is also not permitted. The current Israeli origin. and entities. Hilton’s decisions to do list of such countries can be found in the • Certify that Hilton does not have an business with various partners are Hilton Trade Sanctions Policy. office in a boycotted country. guided by applicable law, our Values • Do you have an office in Israel? and our interest in protecting our • Identify the race, religion and sex of all Team Members and reputation. employees who will work on this project. FOR MORE INFORMATION Antiboycott Policy CODE OF CONDUCT Table of Contents 23 Global Citizenship GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP Anti-Money Laundering Political Involvement QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS Government Relations and Team Members are prohibited from Team Members may not make political Compliance with United States engaging in or facilitating transactions contributions or expenditures on I gave some money to support a Lobbying Laws anywhere in the world that involve behalf of Hilton or involve Hilton in political candidate in my community Hilton and Team Members may not funds that were derived from illegal political activities of any kind without who is supportive of several Hilton engage in “lobbying” activity without activities. Hilton must comply with prior approval. This includes the use of projects. Will Hilton reimburse me properly registering and reporting all applicable anti-money laundering Hilton’s name, funds, assets or services, for my contribution? as required by U.S. law. This includes laws, rules and regulations of the U.S. as well as activities performed while No. Hilton encourages you to be active in communicating with government and all other countries where we do on Hilton paid time. Hilton participates your community and the political process. employees and officials at any level and business. Therefore, we must carefully in U.S. federal elections through However, Hilton will not reimburse any in any jurisdiction on issues that affect scrutinize all payments and transactions our Political Action Committee. Team Member for personal contributions Hilton or engaging outside parties or with customers, vendors, business to a political candidate, campaign or party. agents to lobby on Hilton’s behalf. Failure partners, agents and affiliates. We While Hilton encourages Team Members’ This includes the price of tickets to dinners, to register Team Members involved in will not accept any funds or make any personal participation in political rallies or other functions. lobbying and to report their activities payments that appear to be derived activities, such participation must be on in accordance with applicable laws from illegal activities. Involvement your own time, without the use of Hilton FOR MORE INFORMATION exposes those individuals and Hilton in money laundering activities can resources, and in a manner that does not Political Contributions to heavy fines and other penalties. severely damage our good reputation, suggest Hilton sponsorship or approval. Policy and can expose Hilton and Team Hilton will not reimburse Team Members Members to penalties that include for any such personal contributions. severe fines and imprisonment. CODE OF CONDUCT Table of Contents 24 Administering this Code Waivers Hilton generally will not waive Additional Guidance Communicating and Protecting Information provisions of this Code. Any Team For additional guidance Public Communications, Public Disclosure and Regulation FD Policy Member who believes that a waiver regarding topics described in this Communications Policy and Social Media Guidelines may be called for should contact Code, consult Hilton’s policies the Compliance Team, and must not Confidential Information and Trade Secrets Policy and the training resources engage in any conduct inconsistent available to Team Members Information Privacy Policy with this Code of Conduct without at [SCHOOL OF LAW SITE]. Insider Trading Policy receiving such a waiver in writing. Record Retention Policy Any waiver of this Code for executive officers or directors may be made only by the Board of Directors or a Board Competition committee. Hilton will disclose any Global Antitrust and Competition Policy waivers for executive officers or directors as required by law or regulation. Interacting with Government Officials Anti-Corruption Policy This Code of Conduct and the policies described in it are not an Political Contributions Policy employment contract. Hilton does not create any contractual rights by International Trade issuing this Code or related Hilton Trade Sanctions Policy policies. In addition, this Code is not intended to and does not Antiboycott Policy create any obligations to or rights in any employee, client, supplier, Interacting with Union Officials competitor, shareholder or any other Complimentary Treatment & Entertaining for Union Officials person or entity. In the Workplace Equal Employment Opportunity Policy Family and Personal Relationships in the Workplace Harassment and Violence-Free Workplace Policy Travel and Expense Reimbursement Policy CODE OF CONDUCT Table of Contents CODE of conduct
