Preface 2 Topdanmark in brief 3 Main stakeholders and values  4 CSR is business-driven 5 Customers and consumer matters 6 Loss prevention and loss limitation 13 Responsible business management 20 Company culture 30 Relations and dialogue 36 Global Compact-principles 40 Social accounting 41 52227-2014 About the report  41 CSR rEport 2014 2014 — CSR REPORT Photo: Ulrik Jantzen Preface It is a pleasure to present Topdanmark’s CSR This year has been characterized by many activities report, which describes our work with CSR and good results. The most important of these: (Corporate Social Responsibility in 2014 and the }} Once again there has been focus on ensuring results we have achieved. a good customer experience by, among other things, improving a number of internal For Topdanmark CSR goes hand in hand with the processes and implementing digital and more core business. Our products and services ensure user-friendly solutions. The number of satisfied financial and social security for our customers customers has increased. when damage has occurred or their working life }} On the prevention front, development has been has ended, and in this way, a positive contribution positive due to, for example, the launching of a is made to Danish society as a whole. digital Top Farm, which gives our agricultural customers advice and knowledge about We also work with loss prevention and limitation, increased safety. which again benefits our customers, Topdanmark and the society of which we are a part, for example, }} In the area of environment, we have reached our in connection with rainstorms and storms. In this goal of reducing 10% of our CO2 emissions (per CSR report, loss prevention in the agricultural employee) in comparison with 2011 figures. sector is treated as a separate theme. This has been achieved due to, among other things, our solar cell system which has produced CSR for us also means looking after the interests approximately 15% of our electricity for the of our three main stakeholders: our customers, our head office in Ballerup. employees and our shareholders. Our customers }} More work on the mentor scheme for women in should feel well-helped, our employees motivated management has been done. and competent to provide the best service to our customers, and our shareholders receive the most }} A new CSR program for suppliers has been competitive returns possible. introduced. Another contributor to a sustainable development I hope you enjoy reading the CSR report! of society has been Topdanmark’s involvement since 2010 in The UN Global Compact. We are Yours sincerely, continuously working to integrate the Global Compact’s 10 principles concerning employee and human rights, environment and anti-corruption in our business, and this involvement will continue Christian Sagild, CEO into the future. 2 Topdanmark in brief Topdanmark’s principal task is to help those Customers and market share people who have shown confidence in us by Topdanmark has three business sectors in letting us manage their insurance policies or non-life insurance. Number of people who have pension schemes. The essence of our products is chosen to be insured with us: to help, care for, pay compensation and provide }} Personal customers: Around every fourth security. person in Denmark Facts about Topdanmark }} Corporate customers: Around one in six business owners }} Nation-wide, Danish non-life, life and pension fund business }} Agricultural customers: Around one in two farmers }} Head office in Ballerup }} Non-life insurance for more than 100 years This makes Topdanmark the second largest }} Pension fund and life insurance business for Danish non-life insurance company with a market more than 40 years share of 18%. }} Listed on the stock exchange since 1985 Topdanmark has two business sectors in life }} Most important brands: insurance and pension fund business: }} Personal customers }} Corporate customers We are the sixth largest life insurance company in Denmark and have a market share of about 3%. Objectives Topdanmark’s objectives are to: Employees }} carry out nation-wide, Danish non-life The total number of Topdanmark employees is insurance, life insurance and pension fund around 2,700. 1,500 of them work at the head business office in Ballerup, while around 600 work at a }} be attractive to customers by being an number of major offices and sales centres all independent and preeminent insurance group over Denmark. Furthermore we have 600 field employees including certified insurance sales }} ensure that shareholders achieve a long-term, people and loss adjusters. competitive and stable return Topdanmark’s head office in Ballerup contains one of Denmark’s largest openplan offices with room for just under 1,000 employees. Photo: Topdanmark  3 2014 — CSR REPORT Main stakeholders and values Topdanmark has three main stakeholder groups: Shareholders must see value for their customers, employees and shareholders, all money of whom have certain expectations of us as a As Topdanmark is a public limited company, our company. shareholders play a vital role in our business. It is essential that our shareholders regard The customer should feel well-helped Topdanmark as a valuecreating company Topdanmark exists to cover our customers’ that delivers a long-term, competitive and insurance and pension requirements, so that stable return. It is equally important that we can help them when damage occurs or their our shareholders perceive Topdanmark as a active working life ends. Our services, therefore, transparent and trustworthy company, which is affect our customers’ financial and social approachable and open in regard to all necessary security, and this gives us a great responsibility. information. We take this responsibility very seriously. Values Contact with our customers is central to our daily So that we can live up to the expectations of work, and we want them to feel ”well-helped”. these three stakeholder groups, Topdanmark has Customers should feel that they are heard, defined three values which are central in all our that they can have confidence in us, and that work: they have a clear view of their situation in their }} we are professional, i.e. serious, competent contact with us, e.g. in regard to a claim. and knowledgeable Employees must be competent }} we create value by getting results and placing Our employees are the most important resource focus on continuous improvement for giving customers optimal service. It is }} we are responsible, i.e. we behave essential, therefore, that the employees are professionally and we keep our word competent to receive our customers. We want employees to be motivated to do their very best in relation to our customers. We also Read more about Topdanmark, want cooperation between employees and WWW e.g. our management group, Board management to be characterized by mutual trust. of Directors and financial reports Customers Heard Overview Confidence Topdanmark’s stakeholder triangle and business values Values Professionel Value creating Responsible Employees Shareholders Competent Value creating Motivated Transparency Trust Trustworthy 4 CSR is business-driven Topdanmark’s work with CSR is business-driven As Topdanmark’s products and services are, and its goal is to support our business goals and in their nature, beneficial not only for our strategies. We see our CSR work as a discipline customers but also for society as a whole, our which can help to enhance our customers’, business goals are therefore integrated in our employees’ and shareholders’ view and CSR strategy. experiences of Topdanmark as a professional, value-creating and responsible non-life and life In order to further integrate CSR, Topdanmark insurance company. At the same time, our CSR has joined Global Compact, the United Nation’s initiatives help to contribute to a sustainable initiative for private business and organizations, development of Danish society. whose aim is to promote sustainable development of society. Topdanmark’s CSR strategy Evaluation of the year’s results Topdanmark’s CSR strategy is: Each section of this report will include goals, }} to develop and improve customer service by, activities, results and an evaluation of the year’s among other things, addressing consumer results in relation to those of 2013. A ”traffic matters such as ensuring easily understood light” rating is also given, where relevant: product information, fair and good claims handling, transparent price, easy access to Green = improvement in relation to 2013 complaint recourse and a fair complaints results process See ‘Customers and consumer matters’ on Yellow = no change in relation to 2013 page 6 }} to integrate loss prevention and loss limitation Red = decline in relation to 2013 into products and services in order to limit the number and size of incidents of injury and Read more about the report on page 40, e.g. damage to people, buildings and environment criteria for the contents of the report and data See ‘Loss prevention and loss limitation’ on collection. page 13 }} to integrate the consideration for environment, labour and human rights and anti-corruption in the business and in relation to alliance partners WWW See a summary of the report See ’Responsible business management’ on page 20 and ‘Company culture’ on page 30 }} to be aware of and work on business dilemmas Read Topdanmark’s overall CSR policy, in relation to CSR either at a trade level or in WWW which also contains a description of own business how CSR is organized See ‘Customers and consumer matters’ on page 6 }} to create and maintain good relations with stakeholders and initiate a dialogue about CSR, when considered relevant See ’Relations and dialogue’ on page 36 }} to be an active and dedicated company in local communities and Danish society in general See ’Relations and dialogue’ on page 36  5 2014 — CSR REPORT Customers and consumer matters Topdanmark receives around 2.3m telephone Customer satisfaction objectives calls and treats around 300,000 claims annually. Topdanmark’s work with customer satisfaction The contact with customers is the main focus of has no end – we can always be better. One Topdanmark’s daily work, and everyone should important element in this process is the customer feel well-helped regardless of the circumstances. interview, and around 60,000 of these are conducted every year. There are two clear Dialogue with customers makes all customer satisfaction objectives: the difference }} An increase in the number of customers who To provide the best service at all of the many are happy to recommend Topdanmark to points of contact with our customer, we think others “outside-in” in all facets of our business. This }} A decrease in the number of dissatisfied means that all dialogue revolves around the customers specifics of the customer’s situation, and that as far as possible, all relevant factors are covered in the first conversation. This applies in both sales EPSI Rating and claims situations. Customer satisfaction among private customers is also assessed on the basis of the annual In sales situations, it is the job of the sales EPSI Rating, an analysis of private customers’ representative to present easily understood satisfaction with their insurance company. product information including cover and The EPSI analysis institute carries out 5,000 conditions so that the customer can make the interviews within a defined period. Our objective right decision. The aim is for the customer to get here also is to increase customer satisfaction. the correct cover in relation to the customer’s own requirements and the risk exposure. Social media To ensure the right customer focus in sales It is common knowledge that consumers use situations, we are working continually to improve social media to express their satisfaction, or lack our processes. of, in regard to customer service and products. Topdanmark’s customers are no exception here. We listen to praise and criticism on Facebook and Effective help and transparency in Trustpilot and encourage dialogue regarding bad claims situations customer experiences, when relevant. It is especially important to provide high quality service to customers in claims situations. They Praise and blame are actively used need to be given an immediate picture of the All input and comments, positive and negative, scope of cover and how the claims process will are used to improve our processes and unfold. With this in mind, we have in recent communication with our customers. See some years improved our internal processes to give actual examples of improvements implemented in customers more information and better advice 2014 on page 8. on first contact with us. See the results from the internal customer surveys, EPSI Ratings and social media in 2014 on page 9. Source: Trustpilot 6 Photo: Topdanmark Marianne Wier, Topdanmark’s Claims Director, visited customers who had suffered damage, and organised help when claims handling errors were discovered. Mistakes happen The day after the decision was made, Mistakes can happen, of course, when we are Topdanmark acknowledged its error, and our dealing with our customers – we are the first Claims Director travelled to Vendsyssel to meet to admit it. In such situations, it is essential to the customers and ensure that they received all admit our mistakes and put them right, just as the necessary help. Topdanmark did in the autumn of 2014. During a violent rainstorm in Vendsyssel in North Jutland, 330 Topdanmark customers suffered damage to their property. Unfortunately, some of the customers were refused help in the form Photo: Claus Boesen/ of, for example pumping out of water, re-housing etc. This happened because it appeared that the damage had been caused not by the MediaPress rainstorm but by subsequent flooding. Flood damage is covered by the Danish Storm Council (Stormrådet) fund and not by private insurance. In view of this, Topdanmark decided to wait for a Here’s what Marianne Wier, decision from the Storm Council as to the cause Read more Topdanmark’s Claims Director says of the damage. about the situation  7 2014 — CSR REPORT Examples of customer-oriented initiatives in 2014 Marked improvement in our digital the individual policies. The work in this area will claims reporting solutions continue in 2015. Customer surveys show that customers want the option of reporting claims on the internet if it is Better portals make price made easy and quick for them. Topdanmark’s comparisons possible solution could not meet these requirements, and In order to create transparency in insurance so in 2014 we developed and launched a new prices and conditions, and thus make it easier for system for claims reporting. the consumer to choose the insurance they need, Topdanmark participates actively in improving The new solution has the specifics of the Forsikringsguiden.dk (the insurance guide), a customer’s event as central, and the claims portal for comparison of insurance products. The procedure is easier and quicker. If the customer portal was re-launched in 2014. has any questions during the process, there is the possibility to chat with an employee. The The portal is developed by the trade organization, improvements have resulted in a much larger Forsikring og Pension (Insurance and number of customers completing their claim Pension) in cooperation with a broad range of forms over the internet, compared to previously insurance companies including Topdanmark. when many customers dropped the digital claims Forsikringsguiden is developed in cooperation option during the procedure. with Forbrugerrådet Tænk (The Consumer Council, Think). Of course, it is still possible to report a claim via telephone or by using Topdanmark apps. On Forsikringsguiden, prices and conditions of motor, home, contents, travel and accident Clearer information improves insurance products on the market can be customer decision-making compared. The portal also has a guide to the Insurance and pension products can be number of reported complaints to Ankenævnet complicated and hard to understand – not least for Forsikring (The Appeals Tribunal for when purchase of a product takes place on Insurance) and the trends in customer the internet and with no personal contact. We satisfaction for the individual insurance are continually working to improve product companies. information on our websites, topdanmark.dk and danskeforsikring.dk There is also a portal for comparing pension products in various companies, Facts om Pension. In 2014, product information on our websites was Topdanmark is also an active contributor of data restructured so that customers, be they existing on this portal. customers or potential customers, can more easily find relevant information on each product. WWW See Facts on Pension here (in Danish) The new product presentations give a clearer picture of what types of damage are covered by WWW See the insurance guide here (In Danish) Facts }} About eight out of ten customers are registered with e-Boks and receive letters, conditions etc. digitally. This is an increase of about 60% compared to 2013 }} In total, 2.4 Mio documents were sent by eBoks, an increase of 59% compared to 2013 }} Customers who do not want to receive digital letters, conditions etc. can still have them sent by post }} Insurance conditions are not sent via eBoks, but are uploaded onto Topdanmark’s and Danske Forsikring’s websites 8 Customer analysis: Outline of activities and results Goal Activities in 2014 Results for 2014 Assessment of 2014 Internal customer An increase of 1.2%, surveys: increase which is highly in number of Customer interviews and satisfactory 44.5% customers who individual follow-up on recommend us to selected customers others (ambassador customers) Change in processes and organizational structure Internal customer A rise of 0.2%, which surveys: fall is assessed as a Improved product in the number non-significant change information on our of dissatisfied 6.2% websites customers Improved digital claims reporting Increase in A fall of 3.2 percent, personal customer Improved comparison which is not satisfactory. satisfaction in the portal See more on page 10 75.5% EPSI survey Results for 2011 to 2014 (in percent) all business sectors 2011 2012 2013 2014 Ambassador customers 37.0 39.0 43.3 44.5 Dissatisfied customers 7.7 6.8 6.0 6.2 EPSI survey 73.7 75.7 78. 7 75.5 Status on social media 2013 2014 Total customer score on Trustpilot Topdanmark (0 to 10) 5.6 8.8 Total customer score on Trustpilot – Danske Forsikring (0 to 10) 4.5 9.1 Facebook – organic reach* 209,191 501,138 * Number of people who have seen Topdanmark posts without paying for it At the end of 2014, Danske Forsikring was the no.1 insurance and pension company on Trustpilot, and Topdanmark was no. 3.  9 2014 — CSR REPORT Assessment of customer Photo: Claus Boesen/MediaPress satisfaction 2014 Topdanmark’s internal customer surveys show a positive trend in customer satisfaction, and the same can be said for NPS. All in all, our work with the customer perspective looks to be on the right track, in spite of the fact that Topdanmark’s EPSI Rating has declined. EPSI ratings can vary year to year, e.g. Topdanmark improved between 2011 and 2013. The decline in rating in 2014 could be because the EPSI survey took place shortly after Read Read what Bjørn Verwohlt, Marketing more Director, thinks about the EPSI result Topdanmark gave notice of a price increase in travel insurance. Insurance dilemmas Insurance provides peace of mind and security, Our own solutions and Topdanmark would like to insure everyone In some situations, people choose not to or forget in Denmark. This is a guiding principle. to take out home and contents, and liability Unfortunately, we are sometimes faced with insurance. The consequences can be very serious dilemmas which make it impossible for us to not only for the uninsured person who is the insure people. For example, some homeowners victim of fire or theft, but also for others who are live in places where the risk of water damage involved in an accident caused by the uninsured. caused by rainstorms is high – something In order to address these problems, Topdanmark we are seeing more and more of because of has implemented a range of solutions, for climate change. In the insurance business, these example: properties are known as “de rode huse” (”red homes”), and it can be very difficult to insure Many young people forget to take out home and them. contents insurance or have to down-prioritize it for financial reasons when they set up their first Solutions at industry level home. To make it easier for young people to buy The complexity of this insurance dilemma, as with home and contents insurance, Topdanmark has other dilemmas, makes it a problem best solved produced a special insurance which covers the at industry level, in other words by the industry needs of young people and is also affordable and organization ”Insurance and Pension” (Forsikring payable on a monthly basis. og Pension (F & P)) with the cooperation of insurance companies and public institutions. Statistics show that people living in rented accommodation are less likely to have home Topdanmark participates actively in working and contents insurance than homeowners. groups whose purpose is to solve insurance Therefore, Topdanmark contacts people in dilemmas. The problem of ”red homes” is rented accommodation so as to contribute to the one of these dilemmas, and Topdanmark is reduction in the number of individuals who are endeavouring to get this problem recognized as uninsured. one that must be dealt with by society as a whole and not by the individual homeowner. 10 Customer complaints are taken seriously Topdanmark handles around 300,000 claims Source of improvement in annually, and so it is inevitable that we receive communication and claims handling customer complaints about the compensation Topdanmark is aware that customer complaints or service they have received. Typically, an may reflect our inability to communicate the insurance policy is bought long before it is used, terms and conditions on which our policies are and in certain cases the compensation or the based. Therefore we constantly work to improve help given in a claims situation do not meet the our information material for customers in order customer’s expectations. to ensure control and transparency. Based on the complaints the working processes for claims Of course, our customers have the right to handling are evaluated to ensure as few errors as complain. This is a common consumer right which possible. we support. We ensure our customers receive information about complaint recourse and an efficient complaints process. Facts The number of complaints sent to Topdanmark’s customer complaints department and complaints passed on to the Insurance Appeals Board represent under one per thousand of the total number of claims notifications Customer claims to the Insurance Appeals Board: Outline of activities and results Goal Activities in 2014 Results for 2014 Assessment of Assessment of 2014 2013* Topdanmark’s Assessment of The result for the It is expected that The goal was met share of internal complaints full year 2014 was the goal for 2014 for all types of complaints in statistics not available when has been met products the Insurance this report was Appeals Board Better processes for closed must not handling customer exceed our complaints through market share internal training for the type of product Increased use concerned of mediation as solution model To reduce Assessment of The result for the It is expected that There was a the number customer and full year 2013 was the goal for 2014 significant decline of complaints appeals board cases not available when will been met from 2012 in the submitted to in order to improve this report was share of complaints the Board – processes and closed in travel, house, subject to the communication, e.g. motor and contents, market share customer letters However, there is a and change of not having trend towards fewer ownership insurance increased complaints being submitted to the Appeals Board –see table on page 12 * Assessment of 2013 has been included in this report as it was not shown in the 2012 CSR report due to the lack of data for the year when the report was closed  11 2014 — CSR REPORT Statistics of decisions submitted to the Insurance Appeals Board * 2011 2012 2013** 2014*** Number of decisions 242 232 152 89 Board found in Topdanmark’s 183 (76%) 187 (81%) 119 (78%) 78 (88%) favour Board found against or only 59 45 33 11 partially in favour of Topdanmark * The figures cover both Topdanmark Forsikring and Danske Forsikring, which is a brand under Topdanmark. The figures include decisions in life and non-life business, but not decisions which the Appeals Board has not considered. Source: www.ankeforsikring.dk ** Note: Figures for 2013 have been corrected in relation to the figures appearing in the CSR report for 2013, as these figures only covered 1 January 2013 up to and including 21 October 2013 *** Figures for 2014 cover 1 January 2014 to 20 October 2014. In the CSR report for 2015 these figures will be adjusted to cover the whole year Read more about Topdanmark’s approach WWW to complaints, our claims handling and mediation as solution model Photo: Ulrik Jantzen Inputs from customers, both negative and positive, are actively used to improve processes and routines to make customers feel “well-helped”. 12 Loss prevention and loss limitation Topdanmark’s insurance products ensure Society financial security for our customers in the event Topdanmark’s loss prevention and limitation of, for example, accidents, fire and theft, and work benefits society because: illness. But often damage and illness mean far }} it meets the challenge to society of climate more than finances alone, both for the individual change in the form of rainstorms and floods customer and society as a whole. Therefore, Topdanmark gives priority to the integration of }} it helps to sustain the welfare state by loss prevention and limitation in our business. reducing the cost of persons on sick leave and transfer incomes The customer perspective Topdanmark’s loss prevention and loss limitation The business perspective work can benefit customers in many different For Topdanmark, loss prevention and limitation situations, e.g: has a positive effect on business because: }} Climate. We contribute to the prevention of }} it contributes to a positive customer damage to residential and non-residential experience and thus customer loyalty buildings caused by rainstorms and storms, }} it reduces payments of compensation, which which have struck Denmark with greater helps keep down insurance premiums frequency in recent years }} Personal injuries and illness. We contribute to the prevention of illness, injuries and accidents, whether at work or during free-time. If damage occurs, we help to limit the consequences of the injury, accident or illness so that the customer can remain on the WWW Read Topdanmark’s policy for loss job market prevention and loss limitation }} Major fires: these are a serious threat to production in the commercial and agricultural sectors. We help to prevent fires, keep production up and running and keep people Global Compact. Loss prevention and loss and livestock safe from harm limitation supports principle 2 (The right to }} Theft. We help homeowners to feel secure work and the right to physical and mental in their homes and business owners to avoid health) and principles 7 and 8 downtime due to theft or vandalism  13 2014 — CSR REPORT Photo: Topdanmark We are ready for every storm and rainstorm Since 2012 Topdanmark has felt the effects Even though we are well-prepared, mistakes can on business of climate change in the form happen in the processing of customers’ cases. of an unprecedented occurrence of serious One such case which occurred in autumn 2014 is storms and rainstorms. In 2013 hurricane Allan described on page 7. caused around 31,000 cases of damage, while hurricane Bodil and the flooding that came Good advice on prevention in one with it, generated 25,500 cases. In 2014, the place rainstorm season has extended into October, On our websites Safe Topdanmark and Safe for example, in North Jutland, where previously Danske Forsikring information, in videos and there was no risk of rainstorms and flooding after checklist form, on the prevention and limitation early-September. of losses is available to customers and other interested persons. Advice, for example, on what Emergency plan in place to do in the event of rainstorm is also included. To help our customers as quickly and efficiently Customers and interested persons can also sign as possible in these difficult circumstances, up for a news letter on prevention. and to reduce the extent of the damage, an emergency plan has been implemented. The plan The websites are also a resource that makes it consists of several levels so that the response easier for Topdanmark’s employees to integrate can be scaled according to requirements. loss prevention in their daily work and in their The emergency plan is continuously adjusted dialogue with customers, both in sales situations on the basis of concrete experiences. In 2014, and claims situations. We refer to specific internal communication processes have been content that fits each customer’s actual situation. improved so that employees can give customers an even better idea of their situation, e.g. more precise information on when the damage they have suffered will be cleaned up. WWW sikkert.topdanmark.dk (in Danish) WWW sikkert.danskeforsikring.dk (in Danish) 14 Safety in agriculture is the way forward At Topdanmark, we know that loss prevention Photo: Claus Boesen/MediaPress is a real benefit to farmers. Loss prevention makes life safer for the farmer and livestock, and it ensures steady production. For this reason, we have developed an overall concept, Safe Farm, which concentrates on all loss prevention measures a farmer needs in connection with fire, water damage and theft. Our motto is, ”It pays to cultivate safety!” Top Farm – prevention in practice Read what Pia Laub von Gottberg, Read All of the elements of the Safe Farm concept are more Director of Topdanmark Agriculture says actually implemented on two farms, in Jutland about topgården.dk and Funen. We call them Top Farm, and they are the only ones of their kind in Denmark. Customers and interested persons can visit our excellent commentary by farm owner Søren Top Farms and see for themselves how loss Bak Andersen and agronomist Svend Anker prevention works. Top Farms are also used for Worm. Topgården.dk is also used by our sales training our insurance sales representatives and representatives as an element in customer alliance partners. dialogue and advice. Take a digital tour around Safe Farm Topgården.dk nominated In 2014 Topdanmark launched a digital version In 2014, topgården.dk was nominated for True of Top Farm in Jutland, topgården.dk. Customers Award, a prestigious award in the advertising and interested persons can now take a digital industry. Topgården.dk was nominated in the tour around Safe Farm and get a run-down on category for Best Interactive Film with five all of the safety measures installed – with an nominations. Loss prevention in agriculture: Outline of activities and results Goal Activities in 2014 Results for 2014 Assessment of 2014 Expanding the loss Roll-out of About 130 persons, There is an interest for Safe prevention work topgården.dk, a website primarily our own Farming in the industry, but through the Safe for loss prevention and employees on training Topdanmark Agri-cultural Farm concept limitation assignments, have wants to be even better at Integrated Sikkert visited the two Top showing farmers that there Landbrug / Safe Farm Farms are also financial benefits as an element in risk in implementing prevention evaluation and the Topgården.dk has measures setting of premium rates had 3,350 visits since April 2014 The assumption is that it will take several more years before the concept is successful Expanding the loss Finished concept of No results as yet The concept is ready and will be prevention work in origin analysis in order rolled out as pilot in Q1 2015 general to efficiently ensure prevention of large-scale losses  15 2014 — CSR REPORT Facts Farms can be dangerous workplaces Farming, in many ways, can be a dangerous occupation. Personal injury, injury to valuable livestock and damage to buildings can all occur. And fire and theft can stop production. Often the farms are unmanned for many hours, and even a minor incident in such cases can lead to a serious situation if it is not discovered quickly enough. Personal injury According to the Work Environment Authority, an average of 175 farm employees is involved in serious accidents and there are about 5 fatal injuries every year. Injuries often occur in connection with the use of machinery, but there are a lot of other reasons too. The right safety package can prevent or limit the consequence of many accidents. Fire Fire is a serious threat to Danish farming as it can cause operational loss besides injury to people and livestock. Every single day, small or large fires break out on 10 farms or farm property. Many fires are dealt with by the farmers themselves, but some cause serious damage and even production downtime. Theft Farms are full of temptations for thieves: tools, diesel and chemicals, farmhouse contents and small farming machinery. Farms are an easy target for thieves, who can go about their business without risk of being discovered. Farms have more and more expensive electronic equipment and valuables, and theft, therefore, is representing a heavier cost to the customer and Topdanmark. WWW Visit topgården.dk (in Danish) WWW Test your farm safety know-how (in Danish) At topgården.dk customers and interested persons can get advice on how fire, theft and other losses can be prevented or limited Photo:s Topdanmark 16 Top Farm helps the agricultural industry to improve safety Morten Haahr Jensen, special consultant, Knowledge Centre for Agriculture, Agriculture and Food ”Given the number of fires and accidents that the experience of visiting Top Farm can be used occur in the agricultural sector every year, it is when thinking safety in the agricultural sector. important to focus more on safety. Topdanmark’s Safe Farm and Top Farm initiatives are therefore Digital Top Farm can also ”teach” farmers to both thought-provoking and relevant. think more about safety, especially in connection with dealing with the risk of fire.” Visiting Top Farm on Funen and seeing the safety initiatives and the thinking behind them is a very positive experience. I have no doubt that Together with his father, Søren Bak Andersen owns and runs Spøttrup Svineproduktion (Pig production) where they keep about 1,000 sows. Spøttrup is a modern farm using new technology – and therefore it has become a Top Farm ”The farm has become a much safer place for Thermographics is also an important element. the animals, my family and the employees. It’s a This is a camera surveillance system which good feeling to have. I’ve experienced a greater registers faults in fuse boxes which cannot be feeling of security day to day because I know that observed with the naked eye, faults that can a great many situations have been taken care generate overheating and fire. Thermographs are of, situations which otherwise could have led to relatively cheap, and they give value and security accidents, damage and downtime. in regard to fire prevention. Water protection measures are especially I have also had emergency planning implemented important, because water valves often blow, – this was a real wake-up call as there were and this can have serious consequences such previously many dangerous conditions on the as drowned pigs and damage to electrical farm. Now I feel safe in the knowledge that we installations. On my farm, we’ve had use of the have a concrete emergency procedure if an water protection system many times, and in accident happens.” these situations the water supply automatically cuts off.  17 2014 — CSR REPORT Prevention creates value for businesses to 500,000 kr. or more. Each of the customers received a report with advice on how to prevent similar damage in the future. In some cases, customers have been required to fulfill specific prevention requirements. Photo: Tommy Verting Advice on our blog In 2014, we set up a ”business blog” on topdanmark.dk. On the blog, two experts give general advice to business on how to prevent theft, fire and accidents. Our experts also take questions about specific situations to provide SME customers with Topdanmark Erhverv og more targeted help. With the blog, Topdanmark Industri (Topdanmark SME and Industrial) benefit SME and Industrial wants to get closer to from Topdanmark’s loss prevention work since customers so as to share knowledge about it contributes to a secure and stable production. relevant subjects and concrete cases. Since May The consulting services we provide meet the through December the blog has had 882 visits. requirements relevant to our customers. WWW Visit Topdanmark’s Business blog For some years the SME and Industrial sectors (In Danish) have been affected by large fires, e.g. in kitchens, canteens and auto repair shops. Topdanmark SME and Industrial has therefore increased its loss prevention efforts. In 2014, Topdanmark in cooperation with Centralforeningen af Autoreparatører i Danmark or CAD (The Automative Maintenance and Repair Association) held seven workshops for CAD members on the subject of prevention and firefighting. Topdanmark has also carried out work on fire prevention in sports centres, hotels and restaurants. KAB was one of the customers who Focus on rainstorm damage received a visit from Topdanmark’s Rainstorm damage has also been a challenge. In Read engineers in 2014. Read what Dennis 2014, a team of engineers have visited customers more Romar, superintendant of apartment who have suffered rainstorm damage amounting complex Valbyholm thinks about the visit Loss prevention SME and industrial: Outline of activities and results Goal Activities in 2014 Results for 2014 Assessment of 2014 Expanding Prevention of fire, e.g. Improved risk management Improvement in prevention work. targeted loss workshops for auto and advice for auto repair Several customers affected by prevention repair businesses shops, sports centres and rainstorm damage in 2011, have work restaurants prevented damage from the Reinspection of rainstorm of 2014. Customers customers hit by Better management and are generally satisfied with our cloudburst damage prevention of rainstorm advice and are able to use it damage Business blog 18 Proactive claims handling contributes to job retention A serious consequence for people who are hit by illness or seriously injured could be that they lose Facts labour market attachment or perhaps eventually Pro-active claims handling is available accept early retirement. for customers covered by the following insurance policies: With an efficient and proactive effort in claims handling of selected and relevant customers, }} Loss of earnings potential insurance Topdanmark contributes to giving injured }} Workers’ compensation insurance persons greater opportunity to return to the labour market instead of ”only” receiving }} Liability insurance insurance payment and perhaps taking early retirement. Pro-active claims handling is only available for customers when Topdanmark considers Individually planned process it relevant. Therefore, it is not a service the The core of the efforts is a flexible and customer has a right to receive. individually planned process based on individual life situations and challenges. The process can involve, for example, gathering and coordinating all the threads between the many parties involved, a specially planned claims handling WWW Read here about how we helped one or help to find a suitable job. We consider it of our customers return to the labour important to begin our efforts as early as market possible as this improves the opportunity for the customer to maintain attachment to the labour Global Compact. Proactive claim handling market. support Principle 2 (the right of work and the right of physical and mental health) Status on practive claims handling Number of customer cases Percentage of the total where pro-active claims number of customer cases handling was used 2013 2014 2013 2014 Loss of earnings potential 117 385 33% 34% insurance * Workers’ compensation insurance 74 139 <3% <3% & Liability insurance ** * 331 cases in progress as at 31.12.2014 in which pro-active claims handling is made use of ** 161 cases in progress as at 31.12.2014 in which pro-active claims handling is made use of As shown in the table above, pro-active claims due to there being far more cases under the handling is used more often in cases relating to first-mentioned where it makes sense to make an loss of earnings potential than in cases relating extra effort as relevant. to the other two types of insurance, which is  19 2014 — CSR REPORT Responsible business management It is Topdanmark’s duty to create value for In practice, relevant policies are developed our shareholders. In this value creation we are and implemented, and special initiatives are responsible for: implemented, as needed, and which represent }} observing national legislation responsible business management. The three }} meeting recommendations for Corporate primary focus areas are: Governance }} Environmental policy }} meeting the expectations of the UN Global }} Policy for responsible investment Compact }} Human rights and diversity In CSR terms, it is our primary focus to ensure Read about Topdanmark’s Corporate that Topdanmark meets the ten Global Compact WWW Governance work (good business principles. We do this in two ways: management) Risk. Ongoing monitoring of challenges Topdanmark might have in integrating the Global Whistleblower system Compact’s 10 principles into our core business Topdanmark has implemented a whistleblower and in relation to our alliance partners. We system in response to recommendations for endeavour to prevent a negative influence on the good business management. The purpose of 10 principles. the system is to accommodate employees who do not want to go through the management Opportunities. Ongoing efforts to positively chain when they wish to report illegality or a integrate the Global Compact principles in our breach of Topdanmark’s policies. business to the extent that it makes business sense and creates value for Topdanmark and WWW Read about the scheme here society. Climate and environment policy As an insurance company, Topdanmark is The strategy does not include goals for water experiencing first-hand the consequences of consumption as the consumption is low and not climate change: heavier storms, rainstorms and expected to reduce further. flooding. These problems are addressed in our core business e.g. by integrating prevention of weather-related loss in our products and advice to customers. Read more about this in ”Loss Goals, activities and results for prevention and loss limitation on page 13. reduction of paper consumption, waste sorting and office procurements Topdanmark integrates the consideration for WWW – and agreements, can be seen in the climate and environment in its business, and we summary of the CSR report have defined a climate and environment strategy for our business operations. It comprises goals for: }} Reduction of carbon emission Global Compact. The climate and }} Reduction of paper consumption environment policy supports principles 7, 8 }} Waste sorting and 9 }} Office procurements and agreements 20 Goal for reduction of CO2 emission This reduction has been achieved primarily by has been archived reducing electricity consumption at head office Topdanmark set a goal for reducing relative in Ballerup via, for example, the installation of CO2 emission by 10% (per employee) in 2014 a solar cell system and the implementation of with 2011 as the starting point. Our goal has various energy optimization projects. been reached with a reduction in relative CO2 emissions of 20.7% since 2011. CO2-reduction: Outline of activities and results Goal i 2014 Activities in 2014 Results for 2014 Assessment of 2014 10% reduction Operation of solar cell Carbon emissions per The goal was achieved as the of relative carbon system employee were 2.3 relative carbon emissions emission (carbon tons have declined by 20.7% emission per Energy optimization of from 2011 employee) in 2014 IT Absolute carbon from 2011 emission emissions were 5,593 Absolute carbon emissions Energy optimization of tons have declined as well by cooling plant 18.7% compared to 2011 See details in carbon figures New environmentemission accounts on friendly ventilation page 23 system Implementation of online meetings New target for CO2 emissions in 2017 Topdanmark has set a new target for CO2 emissions for 2017, and it is to maintain the level of 2014, i.e. 2.3 tons emissions per full-time employees. The reasons for this target are: }} CO2 reduction since 2011 has been significant – see climate accounts above. In the coming four years it will be difficult to reduce any further as major building projects will require a substantial consumption of power }} Warmer summers, which are likely, will require greater power consumption for air conditioning in order to ensure comfortable working conditions for our employees }} There will not be any marked reduction in CO2 emissions from company car use or heating consumption However, we always integrate energy Photo: Topdanmark optimization and environment into projects for new installations, buildings and the like. Topdanmark has set up a charging cradle for electric cars for the use of both employees and visitors.  21 2014 — CSR REPORT Topdanmark has one of the largest solar cell systems in the North WWW Read more about the solar cell system Topdanmark has one of the largest solar cell systems in the Nordic Countries, inaugurated in 2012. The system is placed on the roof of our Read here about how knowledge and head office in Ballerup. The goal is that it should WWW reports about our solar cell system our produce 15% of our annual electricity needs. incorporated in teaching materials for senior high school students (in Danish) Status on the solar cell system 2013 2014 Electricity production (kWh) 745,454 707,114 Percentage of annual electricity production 12 11 CO2 reduction (tons) 300 250 Savings in electricity consumption (DKKm) 1.5 1.4 Summary of electricity production provided by the solar cell plan over the period from January to December 2014. Mwh 22 Carbon emission accounts List of CO2 emissions (tons) 2011-2014 2011 2012 2013 2014 Heating consumption — natural gas 863 963 983 829 Scope 1 Company car use 1) 700 706 718 653 Heating consumption — district heating 110 116 111 96 Scope 2 Electricity consumption 2) 3,228 2,435 2,092 2,039 Use of own car for business purposes 1,976 1,976 2,076 1,976 Outsourced activities 3) 0 Scope 3 Total absolute carbon emissions 6,877 6,196 5,980 5,593 Total carbon emissions per full-time employee 2.9 2.6 2.4 2.3 1) These figures include use of company car for private purposes. Figures for use of company car for business purposes only are not registered. The split between private purposes use and business purposes use of company cars is estimated to be about 50-50 2) Figures for electricity consumption in 2011 and 2012 have been adjusted as compared to the previous reports in order to reflect the emission factor used in the Climate Compass in 2013. This also means a change in the total absolute carbon emission and the relative carbon emission as compared to previous reports 3) In 2014 Topdanmark’s mainframe was outsourced to IBM. Topdanmark’s electricity consumption amounts to 1.18 kWh. As IBM‘s electricity supply is generated by hydro-power, there is no C02 emission resulting from consumption Climate report for Carbon Disclosure A CDP report includes a score which is based on Project the following criteria: Since 2010, Topdanmark has reported to CDP }} ’Performance score’, which is an assessment (Carbon Disclosure Project), an internationally of how, in concrete terms, a company recognized environment reporting initiative, manages climate change e.g. by setting goals which works to increase openness and dialogue for C02 reduction. Performance is scored 1 til around CO2 emissions and climate strategies 100 in the business community. CDP makes the }} ’Disclosure score’, which assesses the quality information it gathers available to investors. and transparency of the company’s report. Reports are rated between E and A, A being the best rating Goal in 2014 Result in 2013 Results in 2014 Assessment of 2014 70 points 61 D 82 C The 2014 result is due to improved internal New goal for CDP reporting is 85B. processes, better systematics in relation to climate and environment, in addition to better WWW See Topdanmark’s CDP report 2014 reporting. By way of comparison, the average score for Nordic companies in all fields of business, is 80 C.  23 2014 — CSR REPORT Topdanmark has plugged into electric transport In the last two years, Topdanmark has promoted environment-friendly modes of transport, both in and outside working hours. We want to inspire our employees to use other means of transport than the car by making environment-friendly means of transport available. Most of our efforts have been concentrated on head office in Ballerup as the majority of our employees work there. In 2014, initiatives primarily involving electric bicycles and See what Anette Raun, competence electric cars have been implemented. Read more manager at Topdanmark, says about driving an electric car Electric bicycles – a good alternative to the car Topdanmark has participated in a nationwide Our collaboration gave employees the chance to take campaign called, ”Test an electric bicycle”, in Ballerup part in a draw for a 1-week rental at a discounted rate and Odense. Altogether, 44 employees signed up to – eight 1-week rentals were on offer. There was a lot the campaign and 23 were given the chance to test of interest in the project; 61 employees took part in an electric bicycle for three months as an alternative the draw. to the car. For the eight winners, driving an electric car for a week has been an interesting experience, and generally speaking they now have a more positive attitude to the electric car’s potential. For CE, this was a pilot project developed in collaboration with Topdanmark. Now CE is working on a similar project which will involve employees from other companies in the Greater Copenhagen region. See what Martin Christian Delvaux, Leasing of electric cars from Avis Read more construction engineering quality manager In collaboration with Topdanmark, Avis launched says about his participation in ”Test an a campaign to lease Avis-branded electric cars to electric bicycle” Topdanmark employees at a very favourable rate. Four employees have taken up the offer, which Generally speaking, the feedback from the employees continues into 2015. has been good, and some of them have decided to change their commuting habits long term, choosing See a short video about the green winner WWW either an electric bicycle or a normal bicycle instead of project and Topdanmark’s many bicycle the car. Others are less satisfied with using the electric initiatives (in Danish) bicycle daily and have returned to using their car. Employees tested an electric car I 2014, Topdanmark, Copenhagen Electric (CE), Greater Copenhagen’s Electric Vehicle Secretariat, and Avis Car rentals worked together to promote electric cars. In 2013, Topdanmark set up charging stations for employees and guests and so the collaboration with CE and Avis was a natural next step See what Kåre Albrechtsen, head of to take. Our collaboration with CE gave employees Read more secretariat, Copenhagen Electric, says the chance to take part in a lottery to win a week’s about the collaboration with Topdanmark rental of an electric car. 24 Environment-friendly modes of transport: Outline of activities and results 2013 2014 Bicycle og electric bicycle Free participation in the ”We cycle to work” 244 employees 304 employees participated campaign (VCTA) participated Free bike check for VCTA participants 151 employees made 128 employees made use of use of the offer the offer Bicycle service done during working hours by 380 registered 405 registered employees a socio-economic business, Cykelven (Cycle employees – a 90% Friend) increase from 2012 Participation in nationwide “test an electric Three employees 44 signed up and 23 got the bicycle” campaign chance to test an electric bicycle for 3 months. At year end, 4 employees have bought an electric bicycle, and 12 are considering buying one Discount on bicycles 70 bicycles bought 45 bicycles bought Electric cars Charging station for electric cars No employees used the Three employees used the charging station charging station towards the end of 2014 An information stand manned by electric car Visited by approx. 100 _ specialists set up by the canteen in Ballerup employees Collaboration with Greater Copenhagen 61 signed up Region on the leasing of an electric car for a _ 8 got the chance to test an week electric car Electric car leasing campaign with Avis Four employees have leased an _ electric car Other initiatives Implementation of a digital platform to A few users encourage car-sharing for work and outside _ working hours Photos: Topdanmark  25 2014 — CSR REPORT Responsible investment As part of Topdanmark’s ordinary operations Topdanmark is aware that investment decisions we invest, for example, insurance reserves and can deviate from the ten principles of the Global pension customers’ savings, until the funds are Compact, and therefore be inconsistent with paid as compensation, pension payments or the the policy for responsible investment. To reduce like. this risk, Topdanmark has created procedures to Topdanmark wants to ensure the highest possible ensure that investments are responsible and in return while also ensuring that the value creation full accordance with the policy. does not violate internationally recognized standards and principles or international conventions adopted by Denmark. Read the complete policy for Global Compact provides the setting WWW responsible investment, in which As an extension of this, Topdanmark has joined the procedure mentioned above is the UN’s Global Compact, which comprises ten described principles in the areas of human rights, labour rights, environment and anti-corruption. These principles provide the overall setting for our Global Compact. The policy for responsible policy on responsible investment. In practice this investment supports all ten principles means that the ten principles are integrated in our investment policy. Responsible investment: Outline of activities and results Goal Activities in 2014 Results in 2014 The investment return is Regular screening and assessment of The ”active ownership” created taking into account the portfolio of positions which conflict Topdanmark participated in Global Compact and the CSR with our CSR policy was discontinued in 2014 policy due to a lack of response Participation in ”active ownership” of from the company in a company assessed as being in breach question and no prospects of the Global Compact principles for improvement Implemented work to integrate Topdanmark decided to sell government bonds in the policy its positions in the company for responsible investment in question based on new guidelines from The Danish Business Authority’s Council for Social Responsibility (Rådet for Samfundsansvar under Erhvervsstyrelsen) 26 Human rights and diversity Topdanmark respects internationally recognized that all employees have equal access to executive human rights, and our goal is never to violate positions at all levels. them. Inspired by the UN’s Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, we are going to Women in management implement a process with which we can identify As an element of encouraging diversity in the the human rights challenges Topdanmark may company Topdanmark has focused on women in face, try to prevent worsening of these rights management since 2011 This was due to only and to report on how we are dealing with the 10% women being in top management (level challenges. 1 executives), which we wanted to change in order to improve diversity and management In 2014 we have worked towards more diversity development in general. in management, and at the end of the year a human rights policy was defined. In 2015 a We have established goals and implemented strategy for these areas will be devised with various activities for moving forward in this area. its basis in an analysis of the challenges and opportunities we have in relation to human Successful mentor scheme rights. In 2013 a pilot mentor scheme for women was set up – and concluded in 2014. The scheme’s Topdanmark wants diversity in purpose was, among other things, to clarify management ambitions, wishes and career development. Topdanmark works to maintain and develop Participants got the opportunity to strengthen openness in our company culture to counter relations throughout the management hierarchy any form of discrimination due to gender, race, and to make strategic use of their network. In colour, nationality, social and ethnic origin, total, nine women completed the mentor process religion, beliefs, political opinion, disability, age with a positive and satisfactory outcome – both and sexual orientation. We believe that diversity for mentor and mentee. provides business value and that it is important Women in management: Outline of activities and results Goal Activities in 2014 Results for 2014 Assessment of 2014 At least one female 19 vacant executive There were no female candidate for a job positions, of which 15 candidates for four interview for an female candidates were executive positions. The executive position at all interviewed absence of women for three levels interview was due to 2013: 23 vacant no female applicants Mentor scheme for executive positions, for these positions female employees. of which 17 female or their professional Nine women have candidates for an competences not being participated interview as good as those of the male applicants Assessment of mentor See details in table on scheme and women in page 29 management in general Both genders must be At 31.12.2014 the The goal was met represented by at least distribution was: 40% despite a slight fall of 40% in management women and 60% men 2% in the number of (all levels) women in management  27 2014 — CSR REPORT Photo: Leif Tuxen See what Maria Lund, claims See what Pernille Freudendahl, head Read Read more manager and former mentor says more of department and former mentee about the mentor scheme says about the mentor scheme 28 Women in management Number of executives in Topdanmark by level and gender 2011 2012 2013 2014 Men Women Percentage Men Women Percentage Men Women Percentage Men Women Percentage women women women women Executives 18 2 10 18 2 10 17 3 15 17 3 15 level 1 Executives 34 22 39 36 27 43 34 25 42 42 22 34 level 2 Executives 89 66 43 88 71 45 92 77 46 90 75 45 level 3 Total 141 90 39 142 100 41 143 105 42 149 100 40 Level 1: reference to Executive Board Level 2: reference to level 1 executives Level 3: reference to level 2 executives Assessment of results and future planning Policy and targets for diversity in the We have met the goal of at least 40% of Board of Directors both sexes represented in management, even Topdanmark has agreed a policy and set though there has been a slight fall of 2% in targets for diversity in the Board of Directors. women compared to 2013. The fall is especially Topdanmark wants a Board of Directors which noticeable at level 2. is composed of the best qualified people. The board comprises six members elected at the AGM As a result, Topdanmark will continue to focus and three members elected by the employees. on advancing women in management in the The objective of the board is for there always to coming years, and initiatives will concentrate on be at least two men and two women among the top management. The mentor scheme will also AGM-elected members. This objective has been continue into 2015. achieved as at 31 December 2013, there are two AGM-elected women and one employee-elected woman on the board. Global Compact. Activities support principle 1 (the right to be protected against discrimination) and principle 6  29 2014 — CSR REPORT Company Culture Topdanmark’s employees are the most important Topdanmark has set up a ”Satisfaction resource for ensuring that our customers get Committee” with representatives from HR and the best service in all situations. As described the three organizations which regularly assess in “About Topdanmark”, it is our goal that which activities would be of benefit to employees’ employees: physical and mental satisfaction with their job. }} Are competent to do their jobs In addition, employees can avail themselves of Topdanmark’s own health and wellbeing }} feel motivated to do their best products, and advice for employees, e.g. health }} feel that cooperation with management is insurance, confidential stress counseling and characterized by mutual confidence proactive injury treatment, if an injury has already occurred – read more on page 19. Topdanmark considers it important to have a good and close dialogue between the Executive Job satisfaction survey as a tool for Board and the employees This is ensured dialogue by, among other things, a work committee Every two years we conduct a job satisfaction with representatives from three employee survey among all employees. The survey is organisations (see box below) and Topdanmark’s for the company as a whole and for individual Executive Board. The committee is charged department level. Its purpose is to assess with treating and discussing work-related and whether we are achieving our ambition of ”great organisational problems and finding mutually job satisfaction”. The survey is also used as a satisfactory solutions. dialogue tool for regularly improving wellbeing at work. Everyday job satisfaction It is important for employees to find a good The last job satisfaction survey at company work-life balance. In the different stages of our level was conducted on February 2013 – see lives, our needs can vary, and so Topdanmark the results on page 32. The next survey will be does its best to support each employee’s need conducted in February 2015. for flexibility, for example in the form of flexitime jobs, part-time work, time off to care for sick Read more about Topdanmark as a children as well as a range of senior schemes WWW workplace, HR policy, competence and leave entitlements. development, employment conditions etc. (in Danish) Facts Three employee organisations represent the employees }} The Association of Certified Insurance Sales Representatives }} The Association of senior salaried employees (DOF), which represents managers and specialists at senior level }} The Staff Association (member of the Organization of Danish Insurance Employees), which represents all other employees at Topdanmark The employee organizations make, among other things, collective bargaining agreements with Topdanmark and are represented in the company’s ”Work Committee”. In 2014 representatives of the Staff Association and the Association of senior salaried employees were elected to Topdanmark’s Board of Directors as members elected by employees 30 A busy workplace Health gives energy When storms and rainstorms hit, our employees Since 2011 focus has concentrated on health. are even busier and the workload can be heavy. The goal is to inspire employees to develop It can’t be any other way. We are here to help our healthy habits which ensure they have a lot of customers – they are our lifeblood. energy for both work and leisure. We believe this contributes to preventing lifestyle illnesses In order to limit overtime and to maintain job and stress and at the same time it contributes to satisfaction among our employees during peak reducing absence due to illness. periods, trained relief workers and resources are deployed from other parts of the organization. See a description of health activities in 2014 on Also, 45 student assistants were hired in 2014, page 32. on a trial basis, to help with tasks arising during rainstorm situations. The purpose was to Development and learning relieve the full-time employees and create more opportunities flexibility in relation to evening shifts. The trial To ensure that all employees are competent to was a success and will continue as part of normal do their work, Topdanmark has an extensive operations in 2015. learning and development programme in place, with both internal and external products. In Prevention of stress addition, annual appraisal interviews with all Stress and stress-related illnesses can be employees are conducted and cover, among triggered by many different circumstances, other things, Topdanmark’s values and e.g. pressure at work. We therefore pay a lot stakeholder triangle (see page 4). Employees also of attention to this problem, with particular have the option of job rotation, a benefit for the emphasis on prevention. Topdanmark’s managers employee in regard to personal and professional are trained to identify signs of stress among development, and for Topdanmark as a company. employees, and all employees can receive confidential stress counseling provided by Read about the mentor scheme for female psychologists. managers on page 27. In 2014, 33 employees availed themselves of confidential stress counseling. Photo: Tommy Verting DHL run in Copenhagen 2014. Topdanmark participated with 96 teams, in Århus with 39 teams, in Odense with 17 teams and in Ålborg with four teams.  31 2014 — CSR REPORT Health and job satisfaction: Outline of activities and results Goal Activities in 2014 Results for 2014 Assessment of 2014 Various offers related to See page 24 cycling – read more on page 24 Discount on bicycle No data wear and other sportswear DHL run 780 employees Run training (2013:700) 25 participants With the exception of Inspiring a healthy life Health check offer 867 employees the medical advice offer, style (2012:885) employees have been Influenza vaccine offer 274 employees enthusiastic about the Ensuring job satisfaction (2013:264) offers and activities, in the workplace Offer of medical advice Only a few employees. which will promote a Read more on page 33 healthier lifestyle. High job satisfaction, Quit Smoking course 52 employees. 88 % i.e. between 70 and 80 offer were still non-smokers The activities also points in Ennova’s job six weeks after the contribute to greater satisfaction survey course. job satisfaction and wellbeing among the Health Camp. Paid for 3 groups, 57 participants employees. by the participants, but in all, with a discount 7 repeaters Dental treatment at the 122 employees workplace. Paid for by the employees Cancer14: spinning 237employees. See event more on page 34 Job satisfaction (2013) Job satisfaction: 75 (+2) Loyality: 83 (+2) Employees in Ballerup are offered repair of their bicycles during working hours by Cykelven, a mobile bicycle workshop. 32 The offer of medical advice was not a claims assessors. As they spend so much time success behind the wheel and have unusual working In 2013, a medical advice pilot project was hours, it can be difficult for them to find time implemented for Topdanmark’s employees in the to exercise and live healthily. Therefore, a Life and Pensions area. It entailed a telephone pilot project involving a personalized training consultation service provided by social workers programme including dietary advice will be and medical professionals for questions of offered to 15 sales representatives and claims ill-health affecting employees or their children. adjustors with a high BMI. The pilot project continued until October 2014 when it was shut down. Only a very few employees took advantage of the offer. Global Compact. The activities support New initiatives in 2015 principle 2: the right to physical and mental In 2015, we will give more attention to our health employees who spend much of their time driving, in other words, our sales representatives and Indicators of employee relations at Topdanmark 2012 2013 2014 Full-time employees 2,388 2,476 2,417 Part-time employees 254 245 236 Total number of employees 2,642 2,721 2,653 Employees under a temporary contract 1) 15 60 24 Employees on collective agreement terms 2,577 2,653 2,582 The staff numbers do not include paid-by-the-hour employees, e.g., student assistants 1) The number covers employees who have a resignation date (excluding apprentices) Indicators of job satisfaction at Topdanmark Enhed 2012 2013 2014 Absence due to illness 1) % 3.0 2.9 3.1 Employee turnover 2) % 8.7 8.9 10.2 Cases of discrimination Number 1 0 0 Employees working reduced hours 3) Number 14 11 11 Skills development of employees 4) DKKm 42,3 38,6 36,2 1) The figure means that on average each employee was sick 3.1 % of overall working hours in 2014. The figure covers all employees. By way of comparison, absence due to illness in the insurance industry is 2.9% 2) Definition: Employees who have left the company voluntarily, have been dismissed, have retired or other reasons 3) Flexjobs /reduced working hours are offered primarily to internal employees who need other work duties than they have performed previously. Of the 11 employees in flexjob positions, 10 are internal employees 4) The amount does not include payroll costs but solely payment of external training activities. Note that the amount for 2012 and 2103 has changed in relation to previous CSR reports, when the amount included provisions for periodical payments. The reduction in costs from 2012 to 2013/2014 is due to a increased focus on internal training since 2013  33 2014 — CSR REPORT Health, customer relations and alliance partners’ participation fees and burnt donation to Beat Cancer calories. In October 2014, Topdanmark was the main sponsor and participant in Cancer14 Spinning 237 Topdanmark employees and 48 business event in support of the nationwide Beat Cancer customers and alliance partners participated, and (Knæk Cancer) campaign. With the event, it was a total of DKK 107,912 was raised for the fight possible to focus attention on several important against cancer. themes: employee health, prevention and customer relations – and at the same time, to Employee health contribute to a socially important event. Topdanmark wants to support employees’ health and wellbeing by promoting healthy activities. Cancer14 was a nationwide spinning event The event put the emphasis on the importance of whose purpose was to collect money for the exercise. As well as being a generally good thing, Beat Cancer campaign, or more specifically for exercise reduces the risk of cancer by up to 40% research in the prevention and cure of cancer. The initiator of Cancer14 was a Topdanmark Prevention employee who wanted to help cancer sufferers. Cancer afflicts one in three people at some point during their lifetime, and this includes Topdanmark as an active participant Topdanmark’s customers. In our business, we With Topdanmark as the main sponsor, the event work with prevention of injury and illness via took place in 40 fitness centres around the advice and products such as health insurance. It country, where participants could spin for Beat therefore made good sense to contribute to the Cancer. At the same time, Topdanmark opened prevention of cancer through this event. a temporary cycle centre at the head office in, where employees could spin for Beat Cancer. Customer relations Topdanmark Life also invited business customers Topdanmark Life and Pensions invited customers and external alliance partners to participate. and external alliance partners to participate in the event to raise awareness of the importance Donation based on burnt calories of exercise in connection with the prevention of Contributions came primarily from participation cancer. The event also provided the opportunity fees paid by the employees, while Topdanmark to meet customers and alliance partners on a made a contribution based on the number more informal basis and in this way to strengthen of burnt calories – DKK 10 per 100 calories. business relations. Topdanmark paid for the business customers and Read what Brian Rothemejer, CEO of Read about what Susanna Jacobsen, Read Read Topdanmark Life and Pensions says more Facilities Manager, Schantz A/S thinks more about participating in the campaign about participating in the event 34 Photos: Tommy Verting  35 2014 — CSR REPORT Relations and dialogue Topdanmark has three main stakeholders: of. As a large Danish company, Topdanmark customers, employees and shareholders, as is in possession of knowledge and various described on page 4. We are also in close daily competences, particularly within the insurance dialogue with a great number of alliance partners and pension industry. We would be happy to and suppliers to ensure, among other things, make this knowledge and professional expertise that our customers are well-helped in claims available, where relevant, to solve social situations. challenges, together with other players where At the same time we wish to be in dialogue relevant. with and contribute to the society we are part CSR-programme for suppliers Topdanmark calls upon the services of alliance The programme is implemented in connection partners and suppliers in various situations, with Topdanmark’s key suppliers with whom e.g. claims situations, in connection with loss we have a contract. On the other hand, the prevention products, delivery of IT and office programme is not implemented in cases when equipment and supplies, and the running of customers themselves choose the supplier, e.g. in canteens. Quality, trust and reliability form the connection with repair of damage to residential core of our collaboration with suppliers, many of property. whom supply essential services to our customers. But to ensure that Topdanmark does not use The recommendation encourages the alliance suppliers who behave irresponsibly by, for partners to integrate the Global Compact example violating the ten principles of the UN’s principles in their business, but there is no formal Global Compact, in 2014 we established a CSR obligation. The recommendation is an annex in programme for suppliers. our contract with all key suppliers, and the other elements of the CSR programme are applied CSR programme for direct suppliers when needed. The CSR programme comprises four elements: }} CSR recommendation as an annex to contract }} Risk analysis, i.e. analysis of CSR situation in Global Compact. Activities support all the relation to the relevant industry or companies principles }} Questionnaire about CSR conditions }} Dialogue on CSR conditions CSR-programme for suppliers: Outline of activities and results Goal Activities in 2014 Results for 2014 Assessment of 2014 Integrating the Implemented CSR programme CSR Implementation of Global Compact for suppliers recommendation is CSR programme is in principles in integrated as annex progress, and the initial cooperation with Initiated process for risk to two contracts impressions gathered are our suppliers, where assessment and collection of satisfactory relevant CSR-related information from Issued relevant alli-ance partners questionnaires to some suppliers Prepared a list of key suppliers to be included in CSR programme 36 Good training for apprentices and trainees As a large non-life and life insurance company knowledge and inspiration. We provide specific in Denmark and co-owner of the Danish activities focusing on the apprentices’ job Insurance Academy, the insurance industry’s satisfaction and personal development to support own educational institution, we wish to ensure them in their training. the continuous availability of a highly skilled and qualified workforce. Therefore, every year Global Compact. The activity supports we employ a number of finance apprentices and Principle 1 (The right to education) finance trainees who are also a source of new Apprentices and trainees: Outline of activities and results Goal Activities in 2014 Results for 2014 Assessment of 2014 Contributing Employment of Finance apprentices (2 years): to training in apprentices and 24 new apprentices the industry trainees Finance economists (3 months) 13 new apprentices Finance bachelors as trainees (5 months): 18 new apprentices Of the 18 finance apprentices who completed the 13 finance economists in training, 11 were their training with Topdanmark in 2014, 16 were employed as student assistants for a period. Of employed after completing their education. Of these 11, 7 have been retained full-time. Trainees and apprentices 2012-2014 2012 2013 2014 Finance apprentices 24 24 24 Finance economists 5 4 13 Finance bachelors 14 9 18 Read more about the opportunities WWW for finance apprentices or trainees at Topdanmark (in Danish) Photo: Claus Boesen/MediaPress  37 2014 — CSR REPORT Local collaboration on education and young people Topdanmark has adopted a school We have participated with three mentors and in six class mentor schemes. After an assessment in 2014, we In 2014 Topdanmark collaborated with Ballerup have decided to discontinue our participation. This Municipality to “adopt a school class”. We have is because, for different reasons, the projects have adopted a 7th grade class in a local school and we not worked out as satisfactorily as expected, but will follow the class until the end of 9th grade. we are not ruling out the possibility of collaborating with Talent Spotters at a later date. During this time, the pupils will meet with Topdanmark employees four times a year to take part in prearranged after-school activities. The purpose of these meetings is to give the pupils information about the insurance industry, Global Compact. The activity supports Topdanmark and the labour market in general. principle 1 (The right to education) Ballerup Municipality has previously arranged similar initiatives between schools and local companies – with very positive results. Mentor schemes for local school pupils Since 2012, Topdanmark employees have participated in a mentor project run by the national association, Talentspejderne (Talent Spotters), together with a number of municipalities, the Municipality of Ballerup being one of them The employees act as mentors for young pupils who need a helping hand to identify personal and professional competences and to find out what Read what Jacob Birch Hørdum, HR Read educational path to choose. The employees spend more consultant and coordinator of the project partly work time and partly spare time on this says about the purpose of the collaboration scheme. Humanitarian projects in which Topdanmark and employees make a difference Contribution to Doctors without In 2014, there was an information day at head Borders office in Ballerup, where Doctors without Borders Since 1996 Topdanmark and its employees have described how they helped the victims of the supported Doctors without Borders. Employees typhoon in the Philippines. The arrangement was pay voluntary contributions and Topdanmark a follow-up to the fund-raising for the Philippines pays a corresponding amount. initiated by Topdanmark in 2013. Contribution to Doctors without Borders 2011 2012 2013 2014 Number of registered employees 109 106 101 Total amount in DKK 166,200 166,520 165,520 207,450 Collection for the Philippines in DKK 84,500 38 Photo: Florian Lems/MSF Contribution to Denmark’s national fund-raising event in 2014 For a number of years Topdanmark and its employees have contributed to Denmark’s national fund-raising event. In 2014 a total of DKK 110,200 was raised. Here’s what Michael Gylling Nielsen, General Director of Doctors without Read more Borders, says about their cooperation with Topdanmark Blood donations in working hours Topdanmark’s employees donate blood to the Danish Blood Bank three times a year. 2011 2012 2013 2014 Number of registered employees 139 120 148 153 Global Compact. The activities support principle 1 (The right to physical and mental health etc.)  39 2014 — CSR REPORT About the Report This is Topdanmark’s annual CSR Report. It is also reporting system, Global Reporting Initiative. Data have our Completion of Progress report for the UN Global primarily been collected from our central HR salary Compact, and thereby it constitutes our statutory system and data dependability is considered to be high. report on Corporate Social Responsibility (see section 132 of Executive Order on Financial Reports for See table of indicators on page 33. Insurance Companies and Lateral Pension Funds). Carbon emission accounts The report covers the financial year 2014. The Topdanmark prepares annual carbon emission accounts report applies to all subsidiaries of Topdanmark. It is in accordance with the guidelines of the Climate Topdanmark’s sixth CSR Report. Compass, an application developed by the Danish Business Authority to calculate carbon emissions. We Objectives and target group have chosen to include the following elements in the The CSR report has been prepared to create carbon emission accounts which we consider to be the transparency about our business and its impact on principal sources of our carbon emissions. climate and environment, people and finance. }} Heating consumption }} Electricity consumption It is relevant to a wide group of stakeholders: existing and potential employees, customers, shareholders, }} Driving in company cars alliance partners, suppliers and media, NGOs and civil }} Use of own car for business purposes society. The report is published on Topdanmark’s and Danske The consumption of heating and electricity has been Forsikring’s websites in both Danish and English. It is restricted to the head office and the office in Viby and also distributed among a large number of our alliance does not include other sales centres. This is due to two partners and business customers, and is used in sales factors: we have no reliable data on the heating and material when relevant. electricity consumption in our sales centres and this consumption represents only about 5% of the overall consumption. Contents of the report Attempts to improve the data in 2015 are underway. The general contents of this report are defined by Topdanmark’s CSR Steering Group based upon the following criteria: Data collection and data quality for }} Topdanmark’s CSR strategy carbon emissions accounts The head office consumption of heating and electricity }} Regulatory requirements was collected from consumption reports made available }} Expectations from Global Compact, i.e. reporting in by suppliers while the Viby office consumption was read relation to the ten principles about employee rights, manually. Electricity produced by our solar cell system human rights, environment and anticorruption is registered by our energy management system. Data dependability is considered to be high for all data. }} Relevance and interest for Topdanmark’s primary stakeholders: customers, employees and Data on driving in company cars (leased cars) are shareholders collected from the registration of fuel consumption }} Best practice in the insurance and pension industry (litres of petrol or diesel). Data dependability is considered to be good. Data on use of own car for In addition, internal and external stakeholders have business purposes are collected from HR’s registration contributed some of the contents. of mileage allowance. The number of kilometres driven is calculated on the basis of the mileage allowances paid. Data dependability is considered to be low. Indicators The indicators for working conditions in Topdanmark See carbon emission accounts on page 23. have been based on the internationally recognised 40 Global Compact-principperne A business supporting UN’s Global Compact should: }} support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights }} make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses }} uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining }} support the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour }} support effective abolition of child labour }} eliminate the discrimination in respect of employment and occupation }} support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges }} undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility }} encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies }} work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery WWW You can read more about UN’s Global Compact here Social accounting Since 2011 Topdanmark has prepared ”social 2015 we will again prepare social accounts for the accounts” which is a calculation of our tax year 2014, which will be available on our website. payments. By operating a profitable business Topdanmark contributes significant, annual amounts to Danish national funds through direct WWW See our social accounts for or 2013 corporation taxes and indirect taxes. In March Contact If you have any questions or comments on the report, please contact Pernille Fogh Christensen, who is responsible for CSR. If you would like to have a dialogue with us on our CSR efforts, you are also welcome to contact us. Tel: +45 4474 4089 (direct) E-mail: pfi@topdanmark.dk Topdanmark A/S, Borupvang 4, 2750 Ballerup, Cvr-nr. 78040017  41
