Strandbygaard Grafisk Trykkerivej 2 / DK-6900 Skjern / T. 96 800 700 / Tryk på Strandbygaard.dk W env orking iron men ity t il in ab ta S us Quality N LEA Em plo ye es Suppliers CSR nt me Fruit on for the vir customer En GLOBAL COMPACT COP/CSR REPORT 2015 2 Table of contents 2015 CSR GLOBAL COMPACT Contents 2 THE 10 PRINCIPLES of the Global Compact 3 About Strandbygaard Grafisk a/s 4 Statement of support 5 Human rights principles 6 Labour principles 7 Environmental principles 10 Anti-corruption principles 12 Goals 2015 13 How Strandbygaard Grafisk implements the 10 global principles 14 THE 10 PRINCIPLES of the Global Compact 3 CSR 2015 GLOBAL COMPACT HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES ENVIRONMENTAL PRINCIPLES ■ Principle 1: ■ Principle 7: Businesses should support and respect the protecBusinesses should support a precautionary aption of internationally proclaimed human rights. proach to environmental challenges. ■ Principle 2: ■ Principle 8: Make sure that they are not complicit in human Undertake initiatives to promote greater environrights abuses Assessment, Policy and Goals. mental responsibility. ■ Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of enLABOUR PRINCIPLES vironmentally friendly technologies Assessment, Policy and goals. ■ Principle 3: Business should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective Bargaining. ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLES ■ Principle 4: ■ Principle 10: Business should uphold the elimination of all Businesses should work against corruption in all forms of forced and compulsory labour. its forms, including extortion and bribery. ■ Principle 5: Business should uphold the effective abolition of child labour. ■ Principle 6: Business should support the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Assessment, Policy and Goals. 4 About Strandbygaard Grafisk a/s Since 1898 2015 CSR GLOBAL COMPACT Strandbygaard Grafisk a/s supplies high-quality Quality is also an improtant point at graphic services. Strandbygaard Grafisk a/s and therfore we are also certified according to ISO 9001. Strandbygaard Grafisk a/s is a company that always strives to be market leaders when it At Strandbygaard Grafisk a/s, we strive to deliver comes to graphic companies, and during times sustainable solutions for the benefit of people, where environmental matters are more and more the environment and society. By joining the UN in focus we focus even more on the environment Global Compact, we are committed to demonourselves. strate social and environmental responsibility as Therefore, we are certified with the Swan well as follow and integrate the Global Compact’s (The Nordic Eco-label), FSC, PEFC, 10 principles of our company. ISO 14001 and EMAS. We can also offer to climate compensate the print. We want our The purpose of the Global Compact is to provide environmental policy to be a central part of our guidance on how we as a company can help to company basis in the future. solve the social and environmental challenges of globalization. Global Compact principles show us the way on how we as a company through our actions respect the fundamental human and labor rights, showing responsibility towards the environment and oppose all forms of corruption. Our participation in the UN Global Compact is to maintain our focus on social responsibility in our activities and strengthen the ongoing communication about the progress we are making in the field of CSR. »We want our environmental policy to be a central part of our company basis« IC ECOL AB RD NO EL 5041 0751 Ecolabelled printing company Statement of support 5 CSR 2015 GLOBAL COMPACT With this Communication on Progress report services both nationally and internationally. The Strandbygaard Grafisk a/s confirm that we supgraphic industry’s CSR code is based on UN Global port the 10 principles of the Global Compact with Compact’s 10 principles, but is made more action respect to human rights, labor standards, environoriented for the graphic industry. ment and anti-corruption. We will make the COP report available via our website. Generally we would like to have the possibility of using the logo for our membership of the Global Compact network in our company brochure, on presentation materiel for Strandbygaard Grafisk, the logo attached to our e-mail signature and on tender documents. Furthermore Strandbygaard Grafisk has joined The Graphic CSR code via Graphic Association Denmark and HK/Privat. The code helps define a standard and a pratice about social responsibility for production of graphic products and Date: March 8th 2016 Mr. Ole Strandbygaard Mr. Claus Scotwin Mrs. Gunhild Dokkedal Managing Director & owner Managing Director & owner Environment, Quality & LEAN 6 Human rights principles 2015 CSR GLOBAL COMPACT Human rights in the production country With regard to national and societal customs, the company must not get involved in any violation of human rights in the production country. This also includes violation referring to national laws, religious and cultural practice. Harassment and punishment Strandbygaard Grafisk treat all employees with respect and dignity. The company refrain from corporal punishment of employees, threats of violence, sexual and psychological harassment, bullying, abusive behaviour and verbal scold. The company must draw up policies and prevention steps to protect employees from harassment and punishment. Protection of privacy is stored, for how long and for what purpose. EmWe respect the employees’ privacy, both in terms ployees must have access to view the data. of collection of personal information and surveillance of the workplace. How to complain and make sanctions We are open to a complaint from employees and Collection and registration of personal confidenhave procedures in place for handling and settling tial information should be minimal, and it must be complaints. ensured that only information with a legal basis in Employees must be able to lodge complaints withinternal legislation is registered. out the risk of threats of reprisals. The company Personal information must be stored in a safe cooperate with the relevant employee repreand responsible manner and only persons with sentatives/trade unions on the establishment of appropriate errand must have access to this procedures for complaining. The procedure should information. apply to all, be transparent, and employees must The employees must be informed if there is surveilbe briefed about this. lance of the workplace. The company must inform Complaints must be followed up by research and the employees about the type of information that reporting and must not result in discrimination of complaints cf. principle 6. ■ Human rights principles ■ Principle 1: ■ Principle 2: Businesses should Make sure that they support and respect are not complicit in the protection of human rights abuses internationally proAssessment, Policy claimed human rights. and Goals. Labour principles 7 CSR 2015 GLOBAL COMPACT Freedom of association Working environment – cooperation and collective bargaining • the elected representatives of the employees Organisations are defined as an organisation of are involved in this work. employees with the aim of promoting and pro• safety committees are established. tecting the interests of the employees. • all involved get the necessary education and training. The company recognises: • workers receive adequate instruction in the • the right of the employees to join unions of work including working environment risks. their own choice without prior authorisation. • audits (external/internal) are made at least However, the national legislation in the produconce a year, where the employees get the tion country must be taken into consideration. opportunity to comment on their working envi• the right that organisations negotiate wages ronment. and working conditions collectively on behalf • objectives are followed up (in relation to auof their members. If the national legislation dits). does not allow the organisation of independent trade unions, the company must allow the Working environment – chemicals employees to form organisations consisting • the least hazardous chemical substances and of representatives of the employees, who can products are used in connection with printdiscuss issues related to work. ing operations, e.g. through substitution of dangerous substances and products which are Working environment less hazardous or non-hazardous. This could be A safe and healthy working environment is a inks, adhesives, and chemicals for washing and human right. cleaning of machines/rollers • there is adequate ventilation in both the workStrandbygaard Grafisk ensure that the working ing area and at working processes with a risk of environment is of such a standard in relation to inhalation of vapours, dust etc. the technical progress that the employees are not • precautions against inhalation of vapours, dust, exposed to conditions or risks that can affect their etc. are taken. health in the short or long term. This regards both occupational diseases and accidents at work. We secure that a system in place that supervises the working environment and continuously works to improve the working environment conditions in accordance with the objectives set. In practice this means: Labour principles ■■ ■ Principle 3: ■ Principle 4: Business should Business should upuphold the freedom of hold the elimination of association and the efall forms of forced and fective recognition of compulsory labour. the right to collective Bargaining. 8 Labour principles 2015 CSR GLOBAL COMPACT • accidents are recorded and investigated in order to prevent further accidents • a sufficient number of people have been trained in first aid. Noise • the employees are not exposed to noise that can damage their hearing. There must be reducing measures, where it is easy to establish. At a minimum, the employees must wear proper hearing protection, which is provided by the employer. Ergonomics and work operations • the working area is designed to avoid poor • the employees through datasheets know the working postures and movements in the best chemicals they work with, and know where way first aid is located and that personal protective • there is furniture and equipment e.g. in the equipment is issued and stored form of lifting equipment available to help • appropriate personal protective equipment is eliminate heavy lifting and poor postures/ used, where there is no extraction of dangermovements. ous substances. The equipment is paid for by the employer. Indoor climate • there must be a clean and comfortable indoor Accidents and machine protection climate/temperature in the working area. This is • graphic machines are provided with effective achieved through cleaning, good lighting, and if protection measures such as guards, screens, necessary through mechanical ventilation and switches, emergency stop, etc. other heat control. • the protective functions are supervised • machines undergo inspection and maintenance Welfare measures at appropriate time intervals • there is clean and adequate washing and toilet facilities separate for both sexes. Pregnant women • pregnant women should be protected from working with chemical products that are con■ Labour principles sidered a risk for foetal defects and against the heavy lifting and other loads that can cause ■ Principle 5: ■ Principle 6: miscarriage or premature birth. Business should uphold Business should support the effective abolition the elimination of of child labour. discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Assessment, Policy and Goals. 9 CSR 2015 GLOBAL COMPACT Forced labour Discrimination Strandbygaard Grafisk undertakes to refrain from Discrimination is defined as: making use of any form of forced or compulsory • Any distinction, exclusion or discrimination labour: based on race, colour, age, sex, marital status, • As a means of maintaining discipline sexual orientation, language, religion, mental • As a punishment for having participated in or physical disability, health status, political strikes opinion, national, or social origin. • As a means of discrimination on grounds of • Any other distinction, exclusion or discrimrace, social status, nationality, or religion. ination as a result of nullifying or impairing equality based on union membership or after Child labour consultation with representatives for employStrandbygaard Grafisk ensure that: ee associations/representatives. • all members of staff are over 13 years old • employees aged 13 to 15 years old only do It is not considered discrimination, if the distinclight work tion, exclusion, or discrimination is due to specific • parents of the 13-15 years old employees qualifications for employment. have been informed of the work and the workThe company undertakes not to exercise direct or ing conditions indirect discrimination in recruitment or to have • employees under the age of 18 do not carry discriminatory hiring policies, e.g. about salary, out harzardous work or work at night working conditions, fringe benefits, pension, pos• employees under 18 years only work for sibility of advancement, etc. Strandbygaard Grafisk for a brief period of All staff must at least receive what corresponds time in connection with their education. They to the country’s set minimum pay. are registrated with name and date of birth to In accordance with national practices, the compakeep track of their age. ny undertakes to create and pursue a policy that aims at promoting equality and eliminate discrimination. It also includes the ability to recruit people from vulnerable groups. 10 Environmental principles 2015 CSR GLOBAL COMPACT Strandbygaard Grafisk undertakes to regularly deinformation that clearly reflects the essential velop and maintain the production processes and environmental aspects associated with graphic systems for managing and preventing the special production. environmental conditions for graphic production. It can be in connection with paper, printing plates, Environment – data and information chemicals and energy issues/consumption. Some of the key environmental issues in graphic production are associated with paper, printing The company’s environmental work and complates, and ink plus the origin of paper fibres, munication with the public must be based on where this is particularly relevant. Paper producdialogue. This means that regular dialogue is tion is more and more based on paper fibres from expected to take place with neighbours, civil soseveral continents, where there is a risk of illegal ciety organisations, and others with an interest logging. Therefore Strandbygaard Grafisk are FSC in environmental activities. This is done through and PEFC certified and follow these regulations. Environment – climate Another important environmental parameter in the production of printed matter is the energy consumption and with that the climate impact. As far as possible, the company undertakes to provide information on how production affects the environment and take this into account. For instance, this is done by following up on the consumption of water, gas and electricity. IC ECOL AB RD NO EL 5041 0751 Ecolabelled printing company 11 CSR 2015 GLOBAL COMPACT Environment – recycling We have a proper storage, handling and disposal We reduce, reuse and recycle waste as widely as of chemicals and other hazardous substances. In possible. addition, the company must take all the necessary measures to ensure that they are replaced with Environment – chemicals less harmful chemicals and substances where The company must maintain a continuous risk possible. assessment of the materials, products, and processes and at all times be able to document and Environment – water and VOCs provide information about this. Banned chemicals (volatile organic compounds) must not be used. The company undertakes to reduce the discharge of waste water and VOC emissions as much as possible and to use the cleanest technology wherever possible. Environmental principles ■■ ■ Principle 7: ■ Principle 8: ■ Principle 9: Businesses should Undertake initiatives Encourage the develsupport a precautionto promote greater opment and diffusion ary approach to envienvironmental responof environmentally ronmental challenges. sibility. friendly technologies Assessment, Policy and goals. 12 Anti-corruption principles 2015 CSR GLOBAL COMPACT Strandbygaard Grafisk In addition, the company undertakes to introduce do not accept corruption systems that effectively control the economic Bribery is not acceptable in any form, whether it activities. is private/public, direct/indirect, active/passive corruption. Corruption distorts competition and Gifts prevents markets from functioning efficiently and Gifts should never be given or received in secrecy. can be considered an additional tax on investment It is not allowed to give or receive gifts of money and trade. or securities. Bribery is defined as a payment that is intended Gifts must not be given that are so great that the to get someone to do something that is dishonreceiver will not be able to provide a correspondest, illegal or against his duties, with the purpose ing gift. of obtaining an undue advantage. Never give gifts in connection with offers, offer Facilitation payments are defined as encouragevaluation, or contract negotiations. ing public officials to perform their tasks such as issuing licenses and permits. The company work against the use of facilitation payments. It may in some cases be accepted, if it is customary in the country to receive such payments, and all other options must be exhausted. At the same time, the company must inform the customer/the company management about the use of facilitation payments. ■ Anti-corruption principles ■ Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Goals 2015 13 CSR 2015 GLOBAL COMPACT • Working envirronment • Envirronment / Chemicals We make APV (workplace assessment) a mapTo ensure that employees in case of emergency ping of our company’s physical and psychologi– easily can find the latest product safety datacal environment to identify improvements for sheet for chemicals we in 2014 implemented a instance within health & safety. The workplace electronically database for all our chemicals. assessment is also a snapshot of our employees job satisfaction level. • LEAN Last years APV’s for all employees and working To continuously develop Strandbygaard Grafisk areas showed a wish form the employees for we have implemented LEAN and we follow up new kitchen and canteen facilities. This was on deviations to identify improvements actions. build at the end of September 2014. Every department meet every week for LEAN meetings. Everybody at Strandbygaard Grafisk With a focus on improving the ergonomics of a/s has this way a good opportunity to come production workers standing up at the machines with new ideas for improvements. have been purchased ergonomic mat for relief of the body when standing. • Protection against illegal labor Before Strandbygaard Graphic sign a contract The goal for this year is to improve the safety with a new cleaning company , there must be a of our employees further. Therefore all people service certificate from them, so we are assured working in the production must wear safety that the company is not convicted of proceeds of shoes from July the 1st 2015. In addition the crime. When purchasing cleaning services, there employees in the printing production must wear is a risk that you open your workplace for illegal cutting gloves to prevent having their fingers labor. Therefore Strandbygaard Graphic in 2015 cut by sharp blades for the printing machine. introduced a contract where the cleaning company sign a declaration that they do not use illegal • Envirronment / Reduction of workers. Cleaning Workers must always carry a energy consumption visible ID card with photo and identification. By sustaining a certification after ISO 14001 and EMAS we every year set new goals for the environment. We continuously focus on reducing the consumption of water, electricity, heat and compressed air. The goal for 2015 was to reduce the consumption of electricity by 5%. LED lights has been installed all over in the factory. This goal was reached by reducing the electricity consumption by 13 %. 96 800 700 Grafisk a/s TRYKSAGER MED OMTANKE · TRIN FOR TRIN · 96 800 700 14 How Strandbygaard Grafisk implements 2015 GLOBAL COMPACT CSR HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES • Strandbygaard Grafisk is not located outside Dener rights in accordance with ILO’s conventions, and mark. the Danish labour market’s collective agreements. • Fundamentally Strandbygaard Grafisk complies with all principles regarding international conventions, Involvement in community activities which Denmark have joined, including defined employStrandbygaard Grafisk a/s is visible in several contexts locally, but also by a number of regional and national events. Currently the company has been sponsoring the following: • Bakken Bears Basketball • FC Midtjylland handball and football HUMAN RIGHTS • Skjern handball and Ringkøbing handball Grafisk a/s Strandbygaard • Ringkøbing Sports Club Grafisk a/s 1 Strandbygaard PRINCIPLES • Exhibition Centre Herning a/s rd Grafisk 1 Strandbygaa a/s rd Grafisk Strandbygaa NKE · TRIN FO R TRIN · 96 80 0 700 • Dejbjerg Golf Club, Skive Golf Club og D OMTA GER ME TRYKSA Holmsland Klit Golf Club • Team Rynkeby – fight against child cancer • Reds & Greens Business Club LABOUR PRINCIPLES • It is off importance for our company that our employ• There are special rubbermats different places in the ees have the good working conditions. production facility to make it more comfortabel for • Air humidification in production facilities to have less the employees to stand up at the machine. dust and pleasant working envirronment. • Graphic employees who sit a lot has a ergonomic • Also to have a good indoor climate we have a air sittingball available to chance sitting positions. humidifier in the office facility. • We work continously with LEAN principles. • Employees in the office do daily gym to compensate • We focus on avoiding accidents and to continously for the time sitting at a computer. improve safety. • The desks are high adjustable so it can be set to fit • All employees can every 14th day sign up for a the person working at the desk. This way the person treatment by a Fysioteapeut. has the ability to switch between standing and • Free fresh fruit to all employees every day. sitting during the workday. • All employees have free access to cold water and coffee & te. • For employees that are smoking we offer refunding some of the money for a quit-smoking course. Strandbygaard Grafisk a/s became a non-smoking company in 2014. LABOUR • The staff club arranges several social actitivites for PRINCIPLES employees to strengthen the unity. The 10 Global Compact principles 15 – actions & outcomes within the 4 issue areas CSR 2015 GLOBAL COMPACT ENVIRONMENTAL PRINCIPLES • Strandbygaard Grafisk are dedicated to managing At Strandbygaard Grafisk you can get your print CO2 our environmental impacts proactively. neutralized through the purchase of quotas in • The environmental principles are described on our CO2 -reducing projects, primarily in the third world. webpage www.strandbygaard.dk At the moment this report is written we support Kenya water purification and wastewater treatment, Thailand Strandbygaard Grafisk are certified after and wants to through South Pole Carbon Asset Management. sustain the following certifications: • ISO 14001 Eco Management • EMAS • The Swan = The Nordic Eco-label • FSC certification • PEFC certification • Climate calc carbon calculator The consumption of electricity, heat and water is ENVIRONMENTAL followed on a weekly basis and improvement initiatives PRINCIPLES are implemented where possible solutions are found to reduce the consumption. This is described in the yearly EMAS report. ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLES • Strandbygaard Grafisk has signed ”Call to Action”. • Strandbygaard Grafisk are committed to achieving a The Call to Action is an appeal by the private sector to high standard of ethical behavior in everything that Governments to promote anti-corruption measures we do and we do not accept corruption. and to implement policies that will establish systems of good governance. The Call to Action urges Governments to underscore anti-corruption and good governance as fundamental pillars of a sustainable and inclusive global economy. ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLES 2015 CSR GLOBAL COMPACT Strandbygaard Grafisk a/s Trykkerivej 2 DK-6900 Skjern · Denmark T. +45 96 800 700 grafisk@strandbygaard.dk strandbygaard.dk
