www Page | 1 Sl. No. CONTENTS Page No. 1. From The CEO’s Desk: Global Compact Compliance Statement 3-5 2. PBC Service Portfolio 6 3. Ethics, Mission & Vision and Organizational chart 7 -8 4. International Certifications, Policies and Awards 9-21 5. Stakeholder Mapping at PBC– Recognizing the key partners 22-27 6. PBC’s commitment to UNGC’s ten principles A. HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1 Support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights 28 Principle 2 Ensure that the organization is not complicit in human rights abuses 29 B. Labour Standards Principle 3 Upholding the freedom of association and effective recognition of the right to 30 Collective Bargaining Principle 4 The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour 30 Principle 5 The organization supports effective abolition of child labour 31 Principle 6 Organization promotes elimination of discrimination in respect of employment 31-35 and occupation C. Environment Principle 7 The organization support a precautionary approach to Environmental 36-38 Challenges Principle 8 The organization initiates promotion of greater environmental responsibility 39-42 Principle 9 Encourages the Development and Diffusion of Environmentally Friendly 42-53 Technologies D. Anti-corruption Principle 10 Business should work against all forms of corruption, including extortion and 54-55 bribery 7. PBC in news 56-62 8. The Road Ahead………. 63 9. Image Sources 64 Creating Spaces that Promote Health & Wellness @ Work Pg. 2 Copyright © 2015 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report 2014-15 CEO’S STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT TO THE TEN UNIVERSAL PRINCIPLES OF UN GLOBAL COMPACT 2015 I am delighted to present Paharpur Business Centre’s (PBC) Communication on Progress (COP) on the ten universal principles of Global Compact, for the year 2014-15. It has been our constant endeavour to communicate our organization’s growth and success story, year after year, with all of you, in a transparent and fair manner with regards to the ten Universal Principles of UN Global Compact & our engagement process with all our Stakeholders and Business Partners in furthering the cause of these ten principles. “A company’s growth depends on the UN Global Compact is a concept that we most strongly adhere to and have been signatories to it since 2003. potential of its business strategies to blend People, Planet & Profit together.” These are the guiding principles of our business and form an intrinsic part of our Corporate Governance. PBC has endeavored to internalize the principles of UN Global Compact in its stated business objectives & owes the success & progress of its business model to UNGC principles. PBC has played a pioneering role in revolutionizing the concept of office space and convention facilities that include training, recruitment and meeting room business areas and integrating it with its many environmental and social practices. All our energies, objectives and strategies are directed towards meeting our triple bottom line performance in a sustained and profitable manner. We are extremely sensitive to the fact that we need to operate within the principles of ‘Corporate Governance” and therefore be accountable, fair, transparent and responsive to the needs of all our stakeholders, specially the primary ones. Our stakeholder engagement program and our various social and environmental initiatives are aimed at achieving our business goals in a sustained manner on one hand & spreading awareness among our stakeholders / suppliers on the business benefits of UNGC & Triple bottom-line principles. This year, the focus has largely been on creating “Shared and meaningful value” with all our stakeholders, in an equitable and just manner. Collaboration is key to sustainability, as businesses Creating Spaces that Promote Health & Wellness @ Work Pg. 3 Copyright © 2015 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report 2014-15 have realized that it’s hard to go out all by themselves – therefore interacting and collaborating with multiple like-minded organizations and people, to work on initiatives and projects that further the cause of sustainability. Our focus area, apart from Energy, Water, Skill Development, Women’s Empowerment, Safe Operations, Health Care, has also been, aligning the Millennium and Sustainable Development Goals with our growth strategy. We have experienced this at Paharpur Business Centre (PBC) By providing superior quality of Indoor Environment Quality (IEQ) to the occupants, results in 360 degrees health and business benefits to all. This truly has been the one major paradigm shift in our Business Strategy. People working in Buildings need to keep well and it is a well known fact that indoor air is 10 times more polluted than outside or ambient air. What does one do, when the ambient air is itself unacceptable? PBC has found solutions for it through its new business vertical that provides indoor air quality solutions Breathe Easy. We are pioneers in air quality solutions and have capabilities in testing, remediation and improvement of indoor air quality for homes, and large commercial establishments, like hospitals, malls, hotels, schools, office buildings, etc. So far we have helped over 1000 homes in Delhi-NCR breathe easy. It is this thought process that has led us to opt for National Australian Built Environment Rating System (NABERS) and USGBC WELL certifications. Given that Delhi’s air is practically unfit for breathing, it is great that we have a third party verification of good air quality at PBC – for wellness and productivity of our occupants. We hope to become the first building in the country to achieve these two milestones, thus committing ourselves to a healthy work environment that aids productivity and profitability. Our responsible operations have always set us apart and we do hope other small and medium enterprises too can learn from us that it is possible to conduct business in an ethical manner by embedding our inherent values in our day to day strategies. Over the years, we have strived hard to create an exciting, healthy and a robust workplace for our employees, a value proposition for our clients and a viable profit making business model for our shareholders. It is a known fact that employees who are satisfied with their organization’s belief and commitment to its environmental and social responsibilities, are likely to be more positive, more engaged, more efficient and therefore, more productive. Creating Spaces that Promote Health & Wellness @ Work Pg. 4 Copyright © 2015 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report 2014-15 An engaged and satisfied workforce contributes to enhanced business results and overall prosperity and well being of an organization. Only a company that produces a Triple bottom line is taking account of the full cost involved in doing sustainable business. Through this COP, we reiterate our belief in ‘Gender Equality & Gender Mainstreaming, by becoming the first SmE to sign up for UN Women’s Empowerment Principles (WEP), in 2012. Last but not the least, strategizing for implementing innovative ways to remain profitable and consistently enhance our top line and bottom line, despite challenges thrown as a result of economic downturns and a not so robust market scenario. I take this opportunity to extend my heartfelt thanks to all our important stakeholders, especially the PBC team that has stood committed to our inherent principles care for people, environment and responsible business. We thank our vendors and suppliers who have played an important role in making our innovations a reality and helping us meet our Environmental, Social that include Human, Labour & Corporate Governance related goals and objectives. We thank and reach out to our esteemed clients, who have supported our causes and encouraged us to move ahead in the direction of corporate social responsibility. My firm belief is to be passionate about what we believe in, play to our strengths, Corporate Excellence & Governance, focus on our circle of influence and recognize that learning is a life-long exercise. This has been our ‘mantra of success for more than two decades now. Your views and feedback are important to us and we look forward to it, as we believe that we can create value by learning from all our stakeholders. Best wishes for a successful financial year ahead. Kamal Meattle Chief Executive Officer Creating Spaces that Promote Health & Wellness @ Work Pg. 5 Copyright © 2015 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report 2014-15 PBC Service Portfolio Creating Spaces that Promote Health & Wellness @ Work Pg. 6 Copyright © 2015 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report 2014-15 OUR ETHICS & VALUES Our Mission To be an excellent, world-class business support service provider; committed to delivering benchmarked, quality services to address customers' specific needs, whilst caring for the environment, occupants’ health and wellness, people around us & creating value for our stakeholders. Our Vision To stand out as an organization that has high dimension focus on consistent delivery of quality service, Care for Environment and sensitive to the people around, that inspires us from within to provide end-to-end business support to our customers whom we consider as the essence of our success. . Our Ethics & Values Honesty And Absolute Integrity in whatever we do – Quality Business Ethics and Corporate Governance, Empowerment, Excellence and Innovation, Competency and Up-skilling, Sensitive to the Environment and Community Around Us, Winning -Being Best in the Business Team Work, Work Hard yet keep it fun & above all – A company that has made “Customer Care its Business”. Creating Spaces that Promote Health & Wellness @ Work Pg. 7 Copyright © 2015 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report 2014-15 ORGANIZATIONAL CHART Note: Organization Chart shall be reviewed on an annual basis. ---Functional Reporting, (x) Position to be filled, T&T – Tour & Travels, PMS – Property Management Services, F&B – Food & Beverages, NPG – Nehru Place Greens, ISP – Internet Service Provider, IAQ – Indoor Air Quality, HRD – Human Resource Department, PR – Public Relations, Ops Operations, Mktg – Marketing Note: (1)All PO’s as part of process will be checked, verified and signed by Director-Sales-Breath Easy (2) GM-Enggdotted line reporting to Director-Breathe Easy for Breathe Easy related tasks. Updated as on January 2015 Creating Spaces that Promote Health & Wellness @ Work Pg. 8 Copyright © 2015 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report 2014-15 INTERNATIONAL CERTIFICATIONS & POLICIES PBC has been certified with six International certifications  ISO 9001:2008 for Quality Management System  ISO 14001:2004 for Environmental Management System  ISO 22000:2005 for Food Safety Management System  ISO 50001:2011 for Energy Management Services  SA 8000:2008 for International Standard for Social Accountability  OHSAS 18001:2007 for Occupational Health & Safety Management System  FSSAI Approved  NABERS Certified for Good Indoor Environment Quality  CETEC 5 Palm Rated for Operating Building  Signatory to UN Global Compact and commitment to Women’s Empowerment Principles (WEPs) CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY POLICY Paharpur Business Centre (PBC) a provider of serviced offices along with a suite of 27 support services is committed to perform its business in a responsible manner to produce an overall positive impact on society and environment. In doing so, we shall strive towards: Marketplace Leadership – We aim to run our business in a way that singles us out as a great provider of high quality services and preferred partner of choice to do business with. Our aim is to work with our stakeholders to develop long –term sustainable relationships. Environment – We are an environment driven company and are aware of the scale of impact our operation has on the environment. As such, we are committed to exploring ways to reduce the impact of what we do. We take a responsible attitude and lead the way in developing initiatives to further improve our environmental footprint. We shall be fully accountable to our clients, employees and the society that we operate in. We will strive to create business opportunities for our stakeholders and follow the core values, norms and ethics that are in-built in the way we conduct our business. Workplace – We are committed to offering our employees a rewarding and challenging workplace. We aim to become the best employer in fact employer of choice, demonstrated amongst other things, by current and past employees recommending the company as a great place to work. We are channeling our efforts towards making PBC a fun place to work for. We do believe people are core to any business and are one’s most important asset and therefore we focus our energies in taking good care of them as we believe that it makes good business sense to hire and retain great employees. The idea is to synergize our efforts in order to create wealth for all. Creating Spaces that Promote Health & Wellness @ Work Pg. 9 Copyright © 2015 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report 2014-15 Inclusivity and Equal opportunities for all is at the core of our human resource policy. We are strictly against discrimination of any kind. We are committed to create awareness of HIV-AIDS at work place and have an adequate policy in place to handle it. Community – We strive to be good corporate citizens, we work to support the sustainability of both global and the local communities in which we operate and actively encourage our employees, customers, suppliers to consider the needs of others and involve themselves in public service through public private partnering. We are sensitive to the requirements of the community around us and our business strategies are closely interlinked with their aspirations. High standards of corporate governance care for environment and health & safety, override everything else that we do. QUALITY MANAGEMENT SYSTEM POLICY This policy underlines the commitment of the Management and Employees of Paharpur Business Centre (PBC™) towards achieving Quality in Service by Providing Quality Services and Facilities that Consistently Meet and Exceed Customer Expectation. To have a motivated and committed team by sustaining a working environment where each employee is encouraged to excel. The Quality Policy is communicated to all employees for effective implementation and will be reviewed periodically for adequacy & suitability. PBC™ will ensure compliance to all the regulatory and legal requirements / law of the land and will strive to go beyond the statutory compliance. The Management of PBC™ implements its stated Quality Policy by establishing and achieving specific Quality Objectives as given below: ENVIRONMENT MANAGEMENT SYSTEM POLICY Paharpur Business Centre is committed to perform its business and related activities in a responsible manner so as to achieve continual improvement in Environmental performance. In doing so, we strive towards:  Encourage recycling or reuse of office waste.  Conserving energy and water through better management.  Minimizing use of non-biodegradable in Food and Beverage department.  Providing indoor air quality conforming to specify ASHRAE standards.  Efficient use of resources by addressing the embodied energy criteria  Minimizing air emissions & water discharges Creating Spaces that Promote Health & Wellness @ Work Pg. 10 Copyright © 2015 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report 2014-15 In keeping with our commitment to prevent pollution, PBC has recognized the Four ‘R’ Refuse, Reduce, Reuse, and Recycle. We are committed to comply with applicable environmental legislation, regulations, rules and all the requirements of the ISO 14001: 2004 standard and the norms of USGBC LEED EB (O&M) certification. We will implement the environmental policy by setting and reviewing objectives and targets periodically without sacrificing quality of life. We will strive to create awareness among our customers, employees, sub-contractors and other important stakeholders, for better and improved environmental performance. This policy will be documented and training will be imparted to employees for effective implementation. SOCIAL ACCOUNTABILITY POLICY At Paharpur Business Centre (PBC), we are committed to performing our business and related activities in a socially and environmentally responsible manner so as to achieve continual improvement, responsive to the needs of the organization. We believe in the triple bottom line evaluation method in delivering performance • Profit • Care for environment • Social accountability We believe that “it can be good business” to care for one of our stakeholders viz. the society and people around us. It enables us to employ and retain great employees. We recognize that people are the core of the organization and we are committed to pursuing practices that ensure welfare and growth of our people. We shall strive to create safe & fair workplace for all our employees. We shall endeavor to create awareness among our customers, sub-contractors, & other important stakeholders on social issues related to our business area. In doing so we shall comply with the applicable national legislation and regulations and respect international conventions. We will implement this policy by setting and reviewing the procedures, standing instructions and related programs. We shall strive to integrate the relevant principles of UN Global Compact that relate to Human Rights and Labour Standards with PBC‘s worker policies, code of Conduct, procedures and SA Standard requirements, in order to mainstream the principles in our day to day operations. This policy will be effectively documented, implemented, maintained, communicated, and accessible in a comprehensible form to all personnel, including directors, executives, management, supervisor, and staff, whether directly employed by, contracted with, or otherwise representing the Company. Creating Spaces that Promote Health & Wellness @ Work Pg. 11 Copyright © 2015 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report 2014-15 The policy will be publicly available in an effective form and manner to interested parties, upon request. Management shall review this policy periodically to ensure that it remains relevant and appropriate to the organizational SA objectives & goals. OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH & SAFETY POLICY Paharpur Business Centre (PBC) a service provider of office and conference facilities, along with a suite of 27 support services. It is committed to provide a safe & healthy environment, to prevent injury & ill health to its employees, occupants, visitors, guest, subcontractors & other interested parties. In doing so we will strive towards:  Commitment to compliance with applicable legislation, regulations and other applicable requirements that relate to our Occupational Health & Safety Hazards.  We will implement the health and safety policy by setting and reviewing objectives and targets periodically to control and minimize risks due to OH&S hazards.  We will ensure continual improvement in OH&S management and its performance.  This policy will be documented, maintained, communicated and reviewed periodically to ensure that it remains relevant and appropriate to the organizational OH&S  Objectives & goals. Training will be imparted to all the persons working under the control of the organization for effective implementation.  We will strive to create awareness among our customers, sub-contractors, guests & other interested parties for better performance & to make them aware of their individual OH&S obligations. FOOD SAFETY MANAGEMENT SYSTEM POLICY We at Paharpur Business Centre (PBC) are committed to provide fresh, safe & healthy food to our customers. We are the end processor of the food chain and then the food directly consume by the consumer. In doing so we strive towards: • Ensuring compliance to all applicable regulations and legislations. • Ensuring all raw materials is purchased under controlled conditions and from best possible supplier or source. • Meeting the specific needs and exceeding expectations of our customers by followed the application food safety norms and at the same time providing delicious and nutritious food. • Creating awareness among our staff, customers and suppliers about food safety. It will be our constant endeavor to take regular feedback from our clients to ensure improved performance and continual improvement. Creating Spaces that Promote Health & Wellness @ Work Pg. 12 Copyright © 2015 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report 2014-15 ENERGY MANAGEMENT SYSTEM POLICY Paharpur Business Centre™ is committed to perform its business and related activities in an environmentally responsible manner and to use energy in the most cost effective, efficient & green way. We are committed to conserve PBC™ energy consumption by using innovative methods and by using green and clean technologies available for reduced operation & maintenance cost of the building. It will be our constant endeavor to continually improve the energy performance of PBC™ by reducing our average annual energy intensity against business as usual. To accomplish this we will:  Improve energy efficiency continuously by implementing effective energy management programs that support all the operations and customer satisfaction while providing a safe and comfortable work environment.  Become one of the most energy-efficient organizations in our industry on a kilowatt-hour per 100 square foot basis.  Measure, Monitor, Manage and control the daily energy consumption by adopting energy conservation initiatives.  Establish an Energy Management Team to identify and drive energy efficiency initiatives and to provide an integrated organization-wide response to energy management.  Set Energy objectives and targets and ensure that the adequate information and resources are available.  Measure our Carbon footprint on a year to year basis  Comply with applicable legal requirements and the requirements of LEED-EB (O&M) guidelines and the requirements of BEE five star rating systems.  Promote purchase of energy efficient products and services and up gradation of existing systems for energy performance improvement.  Develop communications strategies to raise awareness among staff and all the interested parties.  This policy will be documented, maintained, communicated and reviewed periodically to ensure that it remains relevant and appropriate to the organizational Energy Management objectives & goals.  Training will be imparted to all the persons working under the control of the organization for effective implementation.  We will also endeavor to train our vendors / suppliers / sub-contractors and effectively engage with them by organizing awareness sessions periodically focused on issues relating to energy conservation & and creating awareness on the same. ENVIRONMENTAL TOBACCO SMOKE POLICY • The indoor air quality at PBC confirms to the ASHRAE standard and Tobacco smoking & use of E-Cigarette inside the building is strictly prohibited. Restricting smoking at the workplace is a part of complete health and safety promotion program in the business centre. • For smokers, PBC has provided a separate identified room at the terrace area, typically dedicated for smoking. The smoking room has a separate ventilation system with an exhaust and air-conditioner ensuring the air quality inside the building is not affected by ETS. • Employees & clients will be informed of this policy through signs posted in buildings. • Any violations of this policy will be handled through standard disciplinary procedures. Creating Spaces that Promote Health & Wellness @ Work Pg. 13 Copyright © 2015 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report 2014-15 SUSTAINABLE PURCHASE POLICY At PBC, We Strive Hard To Ensure That We Purchase In An Environmentally Sensitive Manner. Whether It Is A Simple Purchase Of Paper Or Pens, Computers, Laptops, Food Raw Material, Carpets To Heavy Duty Engineering Equipments, Our Preference Will Be To Buy “Clean, Green And Energy Efficient” Products And Services. We Are In The Process Of Developing An Environmentally Preferable Purchasing System In Order To Promote The Concept Of “Green Buying” And By Doing So We Will Reduce Our Carbon Footprint and Promote Green Purchasing Processes. We Will Find & Evaluate Information About Green Products & Services And Include The Necessary Specs In Our Product / Service / Vendor Evaluation Form And Wherever Possible, Based On Availability And Financial Viability Purchase Green And Environmentally Sustainable Products And Services, without Compromising On The Quality Of Life At PBC. We Will Consider The Following Environmental Attributes At The Time Of Purchasing: • Encourage local suppliers based in within 100 km radius of our location • Durable And Not Single Use Or Disposable Wherever Possible And Applicable • Made Of Recycled Material • Biodegradable And Safely Disposable • Made From Rapidly Renewable Material • Energy Efficient • Will Prefer Procuring From Companies and Organizations that have responsible & Sustainable Environmental Track Record • Reduced Packaging – Financially Viable Also • Reduces Green House Gas Emissions • Scalable / Upgradable • Water Efficient Technologies • Use of renewable wherever applicable and possible The above attributes will not be limiting & will be subject to change & review on a regular basis. The Objective Of our Purchase Policy is to reduce the adverse environmental impact Of Our Purchasing Decisions & 80% of our total purchase to be done through locally based suppliers. And It Will Be Our Constant Endeavour To Develop And Redesign As Per The Requirement Of The Organization. By including environmental considerations in our purchasing procedure, along with concerns about price, quality and availability, we will remain fiscally responsible while attempting to promote practices that improve public health and safety, reduce pollution & carbon emissions and conserve natural resources. Creating Spaces that Promote Health & Wellness @ Work Pg. 14 Copyright © 2015 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report 2014-15 GREEN CLEANING POLICY The policy is introduced by PBC to provide a safe, clean, and healthy environment for staff and visitors. It is to maintain a position at the forefront of cleaning maintenance technology by employing safe, effective cleaning methods and equipment. It is strongly committed to “Green Cleaning” through its use of chemicals, equipment and techniques that are environmentally friendly. Our policy encourages all our staff and visitors to participate, support and help sustain this commitment to the environment. Green Cleaning includes a number of elements choosing cleaning products and equipment that are not detrimental to the environment and effective in their application as cleaning maintenance. EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY POLICY Paharpur Business Centre & all its related properties and holdings support equal employment opportunities for everyone. We are committed to the ten principles of United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) i.e. Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. We are also certified for SA 8000 for our social accountability. PBC’s Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO) policy states that every person has the same human rights and privileges without regard to his or her race, color, religion, sex, age, handicap, disability, marital status, national origin or economic status. Equal employment opportunity means that every applicant for a job should be considered solely on the basis of his or her qualifications. It also means that every employee should be treated equally with every other similar employee, without discrimination because of his or her race, color, religion, sex, age, handicap, disability, marital status, national origin or economic status. The Company expects full cooperation of everyone associated with it to make sure these principles are upheld. Furthermore, the Company expects that all matters related to recruiting, advertising, hiring, training, compensation, benefits, promotions, transfers, layoffs, recall from layoffs, educational assistance, and social and recreational programs and all treatment on the job, be free of any discriminatory practices. It is PBC’s constant endeavor to spread the message of Equal Opportunities for all through various interactions and meetings with its supply chain and other stakeholders. ANTI-CORRUPTION & ETHICAL POLICY As employees in PBC, we:  Will ensure to behave in an honest & ethical manner.  Will set a good example by being trustworthy.  We will make sure that our behavior complies with the policies and rules of the organization / PBC.  We will use the resources of our company in the best interest of the company, and not for personal & gainful reasons. We will not misuse these resources.  We will not pay or accept bribes / anything of value / cash/ gift / gratuities, offer of employment etc, for the purpose of influencing placement of contracts, obtaining a business advantage or any other reason. Creating Spaces that Promote Health & Wellness @ Work Pg. 15 Copyright © 2015 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report 2014-15  We will make a clear distinction between the interests of our company and our personal interests, and avoid possible conflicts of interest; we do not accept gifts, invitations or other advantages, which could contradict this principle or influence our business decisions that are against the norms of our company.  Ensure that we comply with law of the land, including National legislations & statutory compliances.  All commissions and fee contracts shall have prior approval of our CEO.  Report incidents, risks and issues which deviates from our policy, to your immediate reporting authority, or HeadHRD or CEO  Complete and Implicit support / protection to the employee / whistleblower who reports unethical behavior  Encourage Employees to be continuously conscious about our ethics and values and ensure each employee maintains their integrity, thereby maintaining the integrity of the organization.  All employees must adhere to this policy and any violation to the above may result in termination / legal action, as deemed fit by the management.  The CEO must approve any exceptions to this policy. As owners of PBC, we:  Commit ourselves to this policy and to an ongoing effort to maintain our integrity  Make sure that PBC complies with the applicable National and International norms and commit PBC to an open and transparent Management Approach  Expect our stakeholders i.e. partners and other business associates to respect this policy and wherever possible, we will influence and encourage them to also adopt this policy. Thereafter the policy mentioned above was shared / circulated to all the team members / employees of PBC, who are required to ensure strict adherence to it and behave in a manner suited/appropriate to the stated policy and rules of the organization at all times. The organization expects them to not only behave in an honest and ethical manner but they are also expected to set a good example by acting in a responsible and transparent manner. POLICY ON AFFIRMATIVE ACTION • PBC affirms the recognition that its competitiveness is interlinked with the well being of all sections of the Indian society. • PBC believes that equal opportunity in employment for all sections of society is a component of its growth and competitiveness. It further believes that inclusive growth is a component of growth and development of the country. • PBC affirms the recognition that diversity to reflect socially disadvantaged sections of the society in the workplace has a positive impact on business. • PBC will neither practice nor support conscious discrimination in any form. • PBC does not bias employment away from applicants belonging to disadvantaged sections of society if such applicants possess competitive skills and job credentials as made public. Creating Spaces that Promote Health & Wellness @ Work Pg. 16 Copyright © 2015 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report 2014-15 • PBC's selection of business partners is not based on any considerations other than normal business parameters. In case of equal business offers, PBC will select a business partner belonging to a socially disadvantaged section of society. • PBC will have a written policy statement on Affirmative Action in the workplace. • PBC will have an employment policy that is the public domain. It may place such policies and employment opportunities on its website to encourage applications from socially disadvantaged sections of society. • PBC will make all efforts for up-skilling and continual training of employees from socially disadvantaged sections of society in order to enhance their capabilities, and competitive skills. • PBC will have a partnership programme with educational institutions to support and aid students from socially disadvantaged sections of society. • PBC will have a senior executive accountable to the MD to oversee and promote its Affirmative Action policies and programmes. The senior executive will present a biannual report to the Board of the Company about such policies and programmes. • PBC further has a policy to maintain records on Affirmative Action. • PBC makes available its learning and experiences as a good corporate citizen in Affirmative Action to other companies desiring to incorporate such policies in their own business. POLICY ON HIV / AIDS PBC recognizes that HIV/AIDS is an issue at workplace and would like to address it proactively PBC will provide a safe and healthy environment to the team members by developing nondiscriminatory policy and programmes on HIV/AIDS. PBC will provide regular HIV/AIDS prevention education to all its team members and their families at various levels through formal and informal sessions. HIV status of the team member will be kept confidential Any Team Member living with HIV/AIDS will be kept in employment as long as they are in position to work. If necessary, employee will be shifted to another appropriate position considering the health status at that point in time. PBC will not discriminate against any Team Member infected by HIV/AIDS with regard to promotion, training and any other privileges, applicable to all employees of the company. At PBC HIV/AIDS test will not be a part of recruitment process or any health check-ups. PBC will educate its Team Members and encourage them to participate in Voluntary Counseling and Testing for seeking advice related to HIV/AIDS. Creating Spaces that Promote Health & Wellness @ Work Pg. 17 Copyright © 2015 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report 2014-15 SEXUAL HARASSMENT POLICY PBC is committed to provide a work environment that is free of discrimination and unlawful harassment. Sexual Harassment is strictly prohibited at PBC. Actions, words, jokes, or comments based on an individual’s sex, race, ethnicity, age, religion, or any other legally protected characteristic will not be tolerated. If an employee believes that he/she has been a victim of harassment or is aware of another employee who has been harassed, he / she should immediately report it to HRD or any member of the Harassment Redressal Committee. Employees can raise concerns and make reports without fear of retaliation. Any Superior who becomes aware of possible harassment should promptly advise Management or HR Representative, who will handle the matter in a timely and confidential manner. All employees are responsible for helping to ensure & assure a workplace free of harassment. The Company forbids retaliation against anyone who has reported harassment or participated in an investigation. All of us must recognize that such behavior not only violates the rules of common courtesy and is a violation of the Company's policy, but is also a Human Rights violation & therefore illegal under law. It is the Company's responsibility to investigate all reports or complaints of harassment thoroughly and promptly. If an investigation confirms that harassment has occurred, the Company will take appropriate corrective action, up to and including termination. POLICY ON DIVERSITY AND INCLUSIVITY At PBC, we believe in having a multi-skilled, motivated & a diverse workforce. A Diverse work culture is encouraged by: Respect – for all our stakeholdersemployees, customers, suppliers, and communities that we operate / live in, who come from different geographical, demographical, cultural and social backgrounds. Inclusivity for all genders – Women Empowerment by encouraging women employees to take on responsible positions at workplace and most importantly have women friendly policies and processes in place that facilitate their growth, development and active participation at the Workplace. Marginalized Sections of Society including Tribals Our aim is to include all in our sustainable business process and growth. Respect everyone’s view & perspective. Respect, listen to, help and appreciate others. Creating Spaces that Promote Health & Wellness @ Work Pg. 18 Copyright © 2015 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report 2014-15 Diverse ideas converging in for the same goal – We believe that by encouraging diversity at the Workplace we are able to be more competitive, acceptable and appreciated in the markets that we operate. Each one brings with them a special skill set and together we create a robust, sensitive and profitable organization and create value for our clients, employees and business partners. Appreciation – of our differences – Promoting a culture of Unity in Diversity, which is embedded in the Indian Ethos. CEO Statement of Support for the Women’s Empowerment Principles We, at Paharpur Business Centre (PBC), are committed to support the cause for advancing equality between women and men, its:  An important Business case for us – Equality Means Business, it  Brings the broadest pool of talent to our endeavors;  Further our company’s competitiveness;  Meet our corporate responsibility and sustainability commitments;  Model behaviour within our companies that reflects the society we would like for our employees, fellow citizens and families;  Encourage economic and social conditions that provide equal opportunities to both women and men, girls and boys;  Foster sustainable development in the countries in which we operate. Therefore, we welcome the provisions of the Women’s Empowerment Principles – Equality Means Business, produced and disseminated by the United Nations Entity for Gender Equality and the Empowerment of Women (UN Women) and the United Nations Global Compact. The Principles present seven steps that business and other sectors can take to advance and empower women. Equal treatment of women and men is not just the right thing to do – it is also good for business. The full participation of women in our enterprises and in the larger community makes sound business sense now and in the future. A broad concept of sustainability and corporate responsibility that embraces women’s empowerment as a key goal will benefit us all. The seven steps of the Women’s Empowerment Principles will help us realize these opportunities. We encourage & urge business leaders to join us and use the Principles as guidance for actions that we can all take at the workplace, marketplace and community to empower women and benefit our companies and societies. We will strive to use sex-disaggregated data in our sustainability reporting to communicate our progress to our stakeholders. Creating Spaces that Promote Health & Wellness @ Work Pg. 19 Copyright © 2015 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report 2014-15 AWARDS & ACCOLADES PBC wins Silver Award at 5th Annual GreenTech HR Award, in May, 2015, in Bengaluru. Team PBC receives 15th CII Excellent Energy Efficient Unit Award, in November 2014, in Hyderabad Some of our awards are listed below: • Kamal Meattle, CEO, Paharpur Business Centre has been honoured with the Leadership Award 2013 presented by Indo-American Chamber of Commerce (IACC) Creating Spaces that Promote Health & Wellness @ Work Pg. 20 Copyright © 2015 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report 2014-15 • Received special commendation in CoreNet Global 2013 Awards for Industry Excellence, Economic Development and Sustainable Leadership • Awarded by ET Now for World CSR Award under the category of Best Workplace in February 2013 • Paharpur Business Centre (PBC) has been awarded CII-ITC award for ‘Strong Commitment To Sustainable Practices’, for the year 2011 • Received National Award for Excellence in Energy Management from CII in September 2010. • Received G-Cube Shrishti Award for Good Green Governance on April 22nd 2010 for our Environmental Initiatives • Received Runner's up Award for Corporate Social Responsibility category from Cityscape Real Estate India in December 2009 • Received Water Efficient Unit Award from CII in National Award for Excellence in Water Management 2009 competition • Received National Energy Conservation Award for Energy Conservation Practices in Office Building Sector in December 2009 from Bureau of Energy Efficiency (BEE) • Mr. Kamal Meattle, CEO, Paharpur Business Centre is honored with Asia Pacific Entrepreneurship Award 2009 for Outstanding Entrepreneur in December 2009.Received G-Cube Srishti Award for Good Green Governance on April 22nd 2008 from the Hon’ble Chief Minister of Delhi, Mrs. Sheila Dikshit • Received Special Jury Recommendation Award for “Innovative System Design in IAQ” from Bry Air in 2008 Creating Spaces that Promote Health & Wellness @ Work Pg. 21 Copyright © 2015 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report 2014-15 Stakeholder Engagement Process– Recognizing the key partners & Collaborating for Mutual OBJECTIVES: Business Benefit benefiut We firmly believe in balancing stakeholder priorities and expectations – this is absolutely essential for responsible business performance – by doing this we effectively manage our business risks. Policy At PBC we ensure, that we meet and have a meaningful dialogue with our primary stakeholders, at least twice a year. For this we use surveys, awareness campaigns, training sessions and face to face interaction, training & awareness campaigns, joint pitching, sponsoring common interest programmes etc. During the current year, PBC initiated a broader stakeholder engagement; listening and acting on the inputs received from our stakeholders/interested parties to further improve our business performance & services. Useful & Effective collaboration with our stakeholders to meet the challenges, ever changing business needs and demands, while consistently delivering sustainable value to all our primary stakeholders i.e. Employees, Suppliers, clients, communities in which we operate. Our goal is not only to adhere but exceed conformance to the law & with this intent we have gone all out to include our important stakeholders i.e. customers, subcontractors, employees, etc in our various engagement processes From our consultation with our major and critical stakeholders, the nature of challenge facing the company is clearly understood. Our new cross business CSR approach is based upon a consistent framework, capable of accommodating the widely varying levels of achievement across our various business verticals and by taking cognizance of different social, environmental and economic priorities. Stakeholder Mapping Creating Spaces that Promote Health & Wellness @ Work Pg. 22 Copyright © 2015 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report 2014-15 The list of various stakeholders along with their engagement & association benefits to both is mentioned in the table below: S. Stakeholder ENGAGEMENT BENEFITS TO No. [by priority] Method Frequency Business Stakeholder 1 Shareholders Management Half yearly / Financial and budgetary approvals Clients get value for money Meeting / Board Yearly for investments in green and clean services Meeting technologies, business strategies get ratified. Valuable inputs to improve performance, positive brand image 2 Employees Staff welfare Monthly Enhance Productivity and Increase motivational levels meetings, Efficiency, increase in business, and enhance their Departmental positive brand image capabilities, clarity on goals Meetings with CEO, and objectives, personal Interdepartmental and professional growth, meeting, monetary emoluments management review meetings, committee meetings, events and celebrations. 3 Customers Letters / Daily / Enhance the business, Building up Quality services, Increased Presentations / Weekly / of Trust and loyalty, positive brand service efficiency and Meeting / Customer Monthly / image, inputs on improving the effectiveness Satisfaction Surveys/ Annually services and business Feedback / Annual Parties / Get together 4 Family of Picnic / Family Day Annually Motivated Team and Happy Sense of Pride, employees / Annual Getworkforce, Loyalty, retaining achievement, oneness, together talent. Sense of belonging (part of PBC family) Endorsement by family of an employee’s choice of employer 5 Suppliers / Visits and Annual Regularly / Relationship building, Building of Strong Business Vendors / Meeting Yearly trust and faith, transparency, relationship, trust level Subcontract better negotiations and better increase, credit safety, or value for money as credibility is learning and awareness established, branding, learning process, out of the box and awareness process, out of innovation / the box innovation / customization of product customization of product and and services, increase services business and orders 6 Governmen New Policies / Regularly Get a platform to place their Support from the industry t planning for concerns to the government and corporate business / industry, Laws 7 Community Initiatives on Regularly Credibility/positive brand image, Better engagement community Goodwill of people, perceived as process for the development and a responsible corporate community, community various important gets a platform to voice Creating Spaces that Promote Health & Wellness @ Work Pg. 23 Copyright © 2015 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report 2014-15 days their concerns, apprehensions, appreciations and suggestions 8 Investors Meetings, Regularly Access to money, grants / loans. To deal with responsible Presentations, Growth and diversification corporate, technology Seminars and opportunities, new business partner, Growth and conferences segments and projects diversification opportunities, new business segments and projects, last but not the least attractive returns on their investments and risk hedging 9 Media Electronic and Print Regularly Positive brand image, Creating It’s a win-win situation media Publication, awareness about the business media gets story to tell Articles, interviews entity, indirectly it impact the especially when it is sales and market value innovative and new and create a niche 10 Industry Meetings, Regularly Knowledge sharing, bridge Credibility Enhances, get associations Presentations, between industry and govt. for more corporate / Seminars, trainings, framing policy that aid members / followers workshop and businesses. conferences Creating Spaces that Promote Health & Wellness @ Work Pg. 24 Copyright © 2015 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report 2014-15 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT: PROPAGATING GREEN BUSINESS PRACTICES PBC has always lent a supporting arm to The Climate Reality Project India (TCPI). TCPI is the India chapter of Nobel Laureate Al Gore’s, The Climate Project. It was established in March 2008 with a mission to create awareness on man-made climate change and to help India respond. Our CEO, Mr. Meattle is the trustee to TCPI. PBC has partnered with Climate Reality India in various awareness campaigns and other initiatives. PBC has been giving continued support to its Teacher’s Training Program to be undertaken in collaboration with Delhi Government. The aim is to take the climate message to 10,000 teachers from 5,000 Delhi Schools and ultimately reach out to 1 million children. This will help children in understanding the factors behind climate crisis and how one can act wisely to reduce the adverse effects of climate change. These training programs aim at inculcating eco-friendly habits within the children so that they are not only aware of the climate change of the environment but also make resolutions; implement them and act accordingly. PBC actively supported the “Why Why Not” Campaign. This campaign showcased Zero Tolerance to Excuses for not being responsible towards the environment.The campaign encouraged children to come forward as an ambassador of climate change revolution. This competition targeted children aged between 13-21 years as they are the most vulnerable to Climate Change crisis. They had to perform a small task of asking questions to the world leaders as to how they are planning to contribute in the revolution of changing the world. Prominent leaders and politicians from across the globe, geared up for a dialogue on this imperative issue at the United Nations (UN) Climate Summit on September 23rd, 2014 in New York City (NYC). Creating Spaces that Promote Health & Wellness @ Work Pg. 25 Copyright © 2015 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report 2014-15 The Communication team of PBC put in rigorous efforts to promote this campaign on social media and also encouraged its employees and in-house clients to contribute to this campaign. TRAINING SUPPLY CHAIN PBC purchases goods and services — ranging from office furniture to promotional items. It is PBC’s firm belief to promote local vendors & suppliers. This not only promotes the local expertise and talent but also positively impacts our carbon footprint. We try and promote at least 80 % of our significant group of suppliers that are located near our operations. PBC follows a global sourcing and relationship management strategy for materials and services worldwide with a special focus on the top suppliers of critical goods and services. We maintain strict quality, environmental, ethical, health and safety, and labor standards in our own operations — and we insist on responsible standards and licenses from our external manufacturers. We try and do at least 80% screening of our significant vendors / subcontractors by physically visiting the sites based on human rights, labour standards, Social Accountability and Occupational Health and Safety Standards. PBC is committed to diversity both in our workforce and among our suppliers. We cast the widest net in our search for talent, seeking qualified suppliers, large and small, from all segments of the business community, encouraging and promoting women suppliers. Training programmes are also held to upgrade their awareness levels and knowledge of the materials they supply to the Business Centre. We ensure the use of only eco-friendly products. This is a regular practice and we interact with them; organize special training programs for them so that they fully understand the extent of our quality, social and environmental specifications. We constantly update them on our new services, requirements, customer specifications etc. Annually we train at least 20-25% of our significant vendors and subcontractors on different issues relating to health & Safety, Environment, Good Labour & Human Right Policies, HIV-AIDS & our Ethical Practices. Undoubtedly, a company can never be successful in achieving its objectives without proper support from its supply chain. By imparting training sessions to the vendors and suppliers, we ensure that all of them are in sync with our beliefs and goals, and share the same vision. Creating Spaces that Promote Health & Wellness @ Work Pg. 26 Copyright © 2015 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report 2014-15 AWARENESS CAMPAIGN FOR PBC TEAM AND CREW MEMBERS Change is the only element that stays constant in life. And a change is beneficial if it is for good. To bring a change in the society one has to bring about a change in one-self. With this belief, PBC has started a training program, “GreenPreneurs” this year. Green-Preneurs aims at training PBC team members including lower staff about the importance of environment. They are made aware of the environmental problems like global warming, floods, cyclones, earthquakes etc and the reasons behind it. At PBC, we educate them how we, on our part, can do our bit to curtail such problems. We have integrated these green practices and measures at operational levels. Our housekeeping team uses only green guard certified products for cleaning. They also ensure that no water and land contamination takes place while carrying out the process of cleaning at PBC. Similarly, every department has been instructed to follow some common as well as specific instructions to upscale the green-o-meter. We motivate people to follow those instructions and keep a close vigilance on the implementation. Other than this, we also train them about the repercussions of air pollution and the advantages of good air quality. Our Indoor Air Quality team trains employees about small measures that everyone can execute at their homes to breathe fresh air and stay healthy. This is how we have been creating Green-Preneurs aka Change Leaders to bring innovative ideas, strategies and new developments in place so as to ensure that we derive effective results. Creating Spaces that Promote Health & Wellness @ Work Pg. 27 Copyright © 2015 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report 2014-15 DURING THE YEAR 201415, WE HAVE ADDRESSED THE TEN PRINCIPLES OF UNGC AS UNDER: A. HUMAN RIGHTS I. SUPPORT AND RESPECT THE PROTECTION OF INTERNATIONALLY PROCLAIMED HUMAN RIGHTS We believe that business has an important role to play in promoting and respecting the advancement of fundamental human rights, while not supplanting the primary obligations of Governments to protect the human rights of all people within their borders and as members of the international community. Supporting human rights is not only the right thing to do, but also makes business sense—companies that violate internationally recognized human rights are not sustainable. Ethical behavior towards our employees and suppliers, including the payment of decent wages and the provision of safe and hygienic working conditions, are the essential building blocks for our current and future business. We recognize the rights of our employees and treat our staff with dignity, respect and fairness within a safe working environment. Health & Safety are the two key factors guiding our business. “We recruit locally, encourage high degrees of local autonomy and share ownership where appropriate”. We pursued with a mission to educate our employees about organizational commitment to human rights through regular trainings & workshops. These trainings helped our employees to understand the principles of human rights and how it is to be implemented in their respective business verticals. We also made sure that each Head of the Department clearly understood the risk emerging by not following this. We ensure strict adherence to laws enacted by the Government of India, to protect the interests of the workers. We follow Shops & Established Act. SA 8000:2008 certification cements PBC’s commitment on staff welfare & social accountability. Through this PBC reinforces its commitment to basic rights, freedom to all, fair wages, equal opportunity no discrimination on any account, Inclusivity, training & skill development, health, safety etc. A fair and open channel of communication is maintained for all personnel at the work place. Human Rights are clearly identified as a non-negotiable instrument and is addressed in detail in our Management Standing Instructions (MSI) Our Code of Conduct expresses implicit support to the UN Declaration of Human Rights. Creating Spaces that Promote Health & Wellness @ Work Pg. 28 Copyright © 2015 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report 2014-15 II. ENSURE THAT THE ORGANIZATION IS NOT COMPLICIT IN HUMAN RIGHTS ABUSES There has been no instance of the company having abused human rights in any manner. Our organization realizes that the prompt handling of grievances of employees and customers is of paramount importance in upholding of human rights and accordingly, we have framed procedures to address such grievances. We encourage the development and growth of our staff through regular appraisals, personal improvement & development plans.  We do not permit any kind of harassment or abuse of our employees.  We regularly monitor the working practices and the employment policies of our suppliers and promote improvement. Under SA 8000:2008, we have a separate process on Grievance Handling, through which all employees are able to voice their concerns, queries, doubts, clarifications, grievances etc. The purpose of this procedure is to establish, maintain and ensure a suitable and effective method for handling grievances of personnel deputed at PBC, including workers provided by the sub contractors. The idea is to have a workplace that is sensitive to our most important stakeholders i.e. our workforce & that ensures their well being, while they are with PBC. This is taken very positively as part of our continual improvement programme. Any grievance or suggestion & not taken adversely by the management, wherein our team members get apprehensive about filing any grievance, on the contrary these are considered as opportunities for improvement. No records of an employee’s use of the grievance procedure are kept in their personnel file and during their performance evaluation; this is not taken into accounts. As stated earlier, there has been no instance of the company having abused human rights in any manner. Apart from this, we encourage employees to express views; raise issues in forums meant for their interaction with management, where they are free to give suggestions and seek clarification for any doubts, in a fair manner. We have a suggestion box for our team members to fearlessly give their ideas / suggestions for improvement in our system. We also have a unique communication systeminternal mailing system. All employees have quick and easy access to HR personnel & Senior Managers, in case of any urgency. Creating Spaces that Promote Health & Wellness @ Work Pg. 29 Copyright © 2015 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report 2014-15 B. LABOUR STANDARDS III. UPHOLDING THE FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND EFFECTIVE RECOGNITION OF THE RIGHT TO COLLECTIVE BARGAINING PBC realizes the collective strength of its employees and treats them as effective partner towards the goal of achieving continuous sustainable growth and hence no objection is raised on employees to join any trade unions thereby ensuring freedom of association to all its employees. However it is stressed that they do it in a disciplined manner without harming the sanctity of the workplace. This is communicated through various training programmes and implemented through the Social Accountability (SA 8000) processes. Till date, no instances of strikes / lock out etc have ever taken place at PBC. A noteworthy point here is that a large part of our crew members have been with us for more than five years, this shows the trust and faith that they repose in the management of PBC and also proves the management’s commitment to their personal development and welfare. There have been several instances when a lot of our crew members who had left, rejoined us, this once again proves PBC’s commitment to fair business practices. We also we have a “Workers Representative” (WR), who engages with our crew-members and understand their queries, requirement, needs, grievances, issues etc. and bring them to the notice of the management, on a monthly basis. These are then discussed with the Management Committee and HR & actions are taken to resolve all shortcoming if any. The Workers Representative (WR), is part of all Review Meetings, Audits & Internal meetings with the management, so that the workers perspective is thoroughly presented to the management. IV. THE ELIMINATION OF ALL FORMS OF FORCED AND COMPULSORY LABOUR PBC believes in voluntary labour and does not believe in all forms of forced & compulsory labour right from its inception. Regular & Periodic Audits, both external & internal are conducted for compliance with SA 8000:2008 and compliance to UNGC principles. Apart from this there are unannounced / surprise audits conducted by the certification body & Social Accountability International (SAI) Creating Spaces that Promote Health & Wellness @ Work Pg. 30 Copyright © 2015 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report 2014-15 V. THE ORGANIZATION SUPPORTS EFFECTIVE ABOLITION OF CHILD LABOUR We prefer business partners / suppliers, who treat their employees similarly as we do. PBC follows the Delhi Shops and Establishment Act, according to which, the age limit prescribed for child labour is below 15. However, we have gone beyond this and have prescribed the minimum age limit as 18 years for employment at PBC. No person below this age can be employed in PBC, whether directly or indirectly, thereby ensuring that child labour is not practiced. By setting the minimum pay scale as per the government norms we ensure that our employees get decent wages and working conditions encouraging them to send their children to schools rather than to work. All our contractors & vendors are also required to scrupulously follow the laws/ rules and regulations in respect of engagement of Child Labour. This is addressed through our contract agreement, vendor declaration & regular engagement programmes with our Vendors and suppliers. In our SA 8000:2008 systems, we have a separate process defined on Child Labour – Remediation Plan Procedure No. SA2. The purpose of this procedure is to establish, maintain and ensure a suitable and effective process for detection & prevention of child labour& its remediation, which covers all personnel deputed and also include workers provided by subcontractors. VI. ORGANIZATION PROMOTES ELIMINATION OF DISCRIMINATION IN RESPECT OF EMPLOYMENT The organization does not believe in any kind of discrimination at workplace. At the time of recruitment only qualification of a candidate to deliver effective performance is considered and yes if all is equal, we give special preference to women, candidates from marginal / economically weaker sections of the society and differentlyabled. There have been “Zero” incidents of discrimination in the reporting period. Yes in the above sense we do practice “positive discrimination” to have a diverse workforce. We have adequate policies in place to firmly deal with these and apart from this it also is detailed in our MSI and processes under ISO. We ensure 100% compliance to these. Our objective is to go beyond compliance. The organization does not believe in any kind of discrimination based on caste, colour, gender, religion or region. We strongly believe in inclusivity and vehemently oppose discrimination at workplace. It is evident from the chart given below that Schedule caste & tribes constitute almost 10% of our total Creating Spaces that Promote Health & Wellness @ Work Pg. 31 Copyright © 2015 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report 2014-15 workforce and we hire people based on competencies and their ability to carry out the defined tasks. Any other factor apart from this is not considered. We practice Affirmative Action, as it promotes a diverse workforce and gives opportunities to all in order to have sustainable livelihoods. We also strive to create awareness about the importance of Affirmative Action to enhance social stability & cohesion and to make it into a practical solution for the corporate sector and businesses. We recognize the need to reorient people’s attitude towards persons with disability & persons from the marginalized sections of our society. Inclusivity Data: Category No. of Team Percentage wise members General 156 92% OBC 5 3% SC 7 4% ST 1 1% Grand Total 169 100% “Skill Development Initiative: Taking on Fresh Interns & providing them on the job training on various business verticals including Technical & Soft skill development”. Creating Spaces that Promote Health & Wellness @ Work Pg. 32 Copyright © 2015 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report 2014-15 PBC CELEBRATES WOMAN POWER PBC welcomes the provisions of the Women’s Empowerment Principles (WEPs) – Equality Means Business, produced and disseminated by the United Nations Entity for Gender Equality and the Empowerment of Women (UN Women) and United Nations Global Compact. We are one of the seven signatories to UNGC and WEPs and the only mSME to demonstrate the commitment to Women Empowerment. PBC has adopted the seven steps in order to empower our women employees. We have a policy in place to address this as part of our business strategy. An important business case for us – Equality Means Business Equal treatment of women and men is not just the right thing to do – it is also good for business. At PBC, we constantly work towards removing barriers that help in changing the mindsets & stereotypes. Model behavior within our organization reflects the society we would like for our employees, their families, fellow citizens and communities where we operate in. We have women friendly policies at work to facilitate them and simultaneously help them balance their work, home, children and family. • Flexible working hours, part-time jobs, work from home option, ‘be consultants’ and ‘come-on-specific days’ etc. are some of the provisions tailor-made for our women employees • Extended Maternity Leaves • A medical insurance policy in place that covers maternity from day one • Providing manned cab facilities to the women employees after 7 pm and until 7 am WOMEN AT PBC HOLD THE HIGHEST MANAGEMENT POSITIONS –FIRST CHIEF OPERATING OFFICER @ PBC – A LADY With over 18 years of experience in staffing and real estate industry, Ms. Shruti Guleri is all ready to carve a niche for herself at the Paharpur Business Centre (PBC). Earlier she has worked with PBC for four years (’97 – ‘01) as marketing coordinator, handling the Sales and Servicing Team. She was also responsible for research & marketing, business development, client relations and setting up delivery mechanisms for the new accounts. Creating Spaces that Promote Health & Wellness @ Work Pg. 33 Copyright © 2015 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report 2014-15 • In July 2014, she re-joined PBC as its Chief Operating Officer (COO) spear heading Sales, Marketing and Operations. • Ms. Guleri is fully committed to a sustainable way of doing business and by supporting innovative concepts that bring about a rewarding change in Business. • The winner of Global Power Award – 2008, Ms. Guleri brings a lot of experience after giving a versatile touch to her profile through the experiences that she gained in those years, decided to re-join PBC. • This multitalented COO spends her leisure time driving, experimenting with her photography skills and volunteering in the developmental activities pertaining to the society. She is an avid reader too which is, perhaps, the secret behind her huge knowledge base. These policies make PBC an attractive workplace for women PBC recognizes that Sexual harassment is an issue at workplace and addresses it proactively, by having regular awareness and interactive sessions with PBC team members. We encourage “Open Door Policy” for our women employees to ensure that their specific grievances are addressed in a timely manner PBC enjoys the reputation of being a safe and secure place for women employees. As an organization, we strongly feel that synergies between the two genders can truly result in sustainable development of an entity, organization & a Nation as a whole. Women at PBC hold the highest management positions. Synopsis of PBC’s Workforce Total No. of Employees at PBC: 169 Gender Ratio (F: M): (15:85), Managerial (Female: Male): (32:70) Non Managerial (Female: Male): (12:88) No. of Team Percentage Managerial Non Managérial Category members wise Position (in Nos.) Position (in Nos.) No of Female of PBC 26 15% 10 16 No of Male of PBC 143 85% 23 120 Total Employees 169 100% 33 136 Creating Spaces that Promote Health & Wellness @ Work Pg. 34 Copyright © 2015 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report 2014-15 WOMEN’S DAY CELEBRATION On the occasion of Women’s Day, we organized a small get-together party for the women employees. As a part of our Health and Wellness initiative, at PBC we decided to organize a small kitty party that would enable all women employees to come forward and talk their heart out so that their heart and mind is at ease. They talked about managing time effectively at home and office, in the plight of reducing the stress that can be caused for not being able to do so. PBC HR tem also circulated few helpline numbers and other important contact numbers with them suggesting them to use as and when they feel its necessity. The approach was kept casual, in order to make all comfortable. In addition, through social media platforms, PBC joined the “Make it Happen” hash-tag campaign. The communication team of PBC posted a short inspirational poem encouraging women across the globe to stand up for their rights; trust their skills and stay focused to make their dreams happen. Creating Spaces that Promote Health & Wellness @ Work Pg. 35 Copyright © 2015 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report 2014-15 C. ENVIRONMENT VII. THE ORGANIZATION ADOPTS A PRECAUTIONARY APPROACH TO ENVIRONMENTAL CHALLENGES A. PBC is a 25 year old building, located in Nehru Place Greens, built to government design. It is the first office building in the country to be USGBC LEED Platinum certified under Existing Buildings (Operations and Maintenance) category truly a sustainable building. B. It is also a BEE 5 star rated building with an AAhEPI of 28 wh/hr/sqm C. An eco-friendly building inflicts minimal footprint on the environment while enhancing occupant comfort and efficiency. D. Typically, environment-friendly architecture tries to optimize the performance of a building, and preserve and protect important resources like water, land, and energy. This is accomplished through an integrated approach to architecture, blending design issues, energy-efficient materials, construction techniques, effective building systems including waste management and taking advantage of renewable energy supplies. E. To achieve true environment-friendly architecture, eco-friendly ideas need to be supported by everyone involved in the process from design to construction. F. It is our absolute belief that care for environment can alone help us in addressing the Climate Change issues and take us through this difficult phase. G. With regard to our environmental initiatives – relating to energy management, water conservation, reduction of our carbon footprint, use of sustainable resources, waste management, local procurement, indoor environment etc, we manage them on a day to day basis, the results are tangible and our system addresses it very substantially. H. PBC has undertaken various projects, implemented strategies and taken several initiatives to make PBC a high performance and a truly green office building. ENERGY MANAGEMENT PRACTICES Energy management practices followed at PBC help in reducing our operating costs without impacting the quality of life. Direct energy consumption from primary energy source is from BSES (utility provider) and we don’t have any source for Indirect / Renewable energy. Our results show we have benefited from these practices, resulting in a 30% reduction in the electricity bills. We are continually working on these practices to further improve our energy efficiency footprint. PBC is also a Bureau of Energy Efficiency, Ministry of Power, Govt. of India, 5-star rated building, with average annual hourly energy performance index of 28 W hr /hr /sqm and currently operating at < 22 wh Creating Spaces that Promote Health & Wellness @ Work Pg. 36 Copyright © 2015 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report 2014-15 /hr/ sqm since 2014 and targeted to operate at 15 wh /hr/ sqm. As a result of several Energy Efficient Practices, PBC has reduced its sanctioned MDI from 850 KVA to 325 KVA. WATER MANAGEMENT PRACTICES At PBC, water has always been considered as a precious resource, which is monitored at all inlet and outlet points on daily basis. As water demands and environmental needs grow, recycling & reusing of water plays a major role at PBC, helping us to conserve and sustainably manage our vital water resources in a sustainable manner. Monitoring & Reporting System We have also put conductivity meter in condenser water line for online measurement of water hardness. This helps us minimize unnecessary bleed off. Daily monitoring and recording of the water consumption at each area of consumption is done in order to control any kind of water wastage. Source of Water at PBC™: Primary Source is Delhi Jal Board (Utility Provider) and for any additional requirement of Water, water is sourced & bought. Monthly Water Consumption Data The Bench Mark for water consumption is 45ltrs per person per day as per building by laws. WASTE MANAGEMENT 4 R’s Refuse, Reduce, Reuse, Recycle is our mantra for managing waste. At PBC, we segregate waste at the point of its generation.  We have separate bins for food, plastic, paper etc. Food waste at PBC is converted into organic nature manure through vermi-culture with the help of worms. Further, this manure is used for indoor plants.  Effluent from the kitchen is treated through Oil and Grease trap installed in the Kitchen and as per DPCC norms the parameters of the discharge is periodically tested from DPCC approved Lab. Results are within the specified parameters. Creating Spaces that Promote Health & Wellness @ Work Pg. 37 Copyright © 2015 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report 2014-15  We recycle paper and plastic waste. Several trees are chopped down in order to produce papers. At PBC, we try to minimize the usage of papers by following various simple practices. Instead of circulating paper notes/chits, we prefer using our emails, setting up reminders in the computers etc.  We reuse one-sided paper & promote communication thru I-mail/ E-mail.  E-waste is discarded through e-waste recyclers and useful equipments/parts are combined to form usable machines. BREATHE EASY™ INDOOR AIR QUALITY Good air quality is imperative for a healthy environment. Stationary adults typically inhale 6 to 10 liters of air every minute, and a total of approximately 15 cubic meters of air pass through the lungs of a moderately active adult daily. ‘WE GROW FRESH AIR’: PBC has taken a holistic approach towards improving indoor air quality while making the building more energy efficient and this has been possible because of its unique bio-technology, “Indoor air Quality” system. This biotechnology is an innovation of Mr. Kamal Meattle, CEO, PBC. This patented bio-technology is used to remove chemical toxins like VOCs from the indoor air while enriching it with oxygen. We do it with the help of >1,200 plants. We use mainly three common houseplants; Areca palm, Money plant and Mother-in-Law’s Tongue. All of them detoxify indoor air. Areca Palm and Money plant produce oxygen during daytime while Mother-in-Law’s tongue produces oxygen during night time. This is how the flow of oxygen within the building is kept constant. Air inside PBC as fresh as one would find in Davos or Gulmarg. Studies have proven that it has resulted in reduced absenteeism due to fewer sick days and up to 20% higher productivity of the occupants at PBC. Salary and perks makes a major chunk of expenditure pie of every company. However, by improving productivity level an organization can actually draw optimum benefits from this, further saving salary expenses and concluding that working out of this building can actually nullify the amount invested in renting the space for work. Our IAQ system is retrofitted in our (existing) building. By reducing the demand of fresh air on supply side it has been able to reduce the load on HVAC system saving approximately 10% of energy due to this. Creating Spaces that Promote Health & Wellness @ Work Pg. 38 Copyright © 2015 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report 2014-15 VIII. THE ORGANIZATION INITIATES PROMOTION OF GREATER ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY Environmental awareness among PBC team members & stakeholders our values encourage and motivate us to have a partnership with our customers, employees & other important stakeholders, driving the organization towards sustainable development. Due to our inherent values and environmental sensitivity, we are perceived as a great place to work for. Some of the initiatives for promotion of our environmental responsibility towards community & stakeholder: NEW YEAR CELEBRATION WITH GREEN RESOLUTION To mark the beginning of the New Year 2015, PBC-ians took an oath to stay green and protect our Planet Earth. PBC began this year 2015 with new hopes, unwavering commitments and Positive Green Vibes. Additionally, we also asked all our stakeholders to come up with their own resolution and share the same with us. Creating Spaces that Promote Health & Wellness @ Work Pg. 39 Copyright © 2015 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report 2014-15 EARTH HOUR AT PBC On 28th March 2014, the planet of life – Earth, witnessed the “Earth Hour” phenomenal sweep across the globe. Like every year, PBC participate in this movement by switching off the lights for an hour in the building and also encouraged its team, suppliers and customers to follow the same at their individual homes. EARTH DAY CELEBRATION AT PBC On the occasion of Earth Day, Paharpur Business Centre (PBC) partnered with In AWE and Earth Day Network to organize a conference that demands solutions to all the problems pertaining to our planet, our lives. “Smarting the Existing” is the brain child of In AWE which is a year old magazine. It got established last year on the eve of Earth Day, and is celebrating its anniversary by organizing a conference that will take a holistic approach in coming to conclusions on various segments like Energy, Water, Waste, Health, Environment, Urban Development and more. The founder of the magazine could not find any other Green Venue, suitable and fit for this conference, as Paharpur Business Centre (PBC). This conference raised the bar of curiosity of many who were willing to visit PBC an experience centre. On this occasion, our CEO, Mr. Kamal Meattle, spoke about simple ways that can be adopted to improve human health and productivity. Creating Spaces that Promote Health & Wellness @ Work Pg. 40 Copyright © 2015 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report 2014-15 PBC CELEBRATES WORLD ENVIRONMENT DAY On the occasion of World Environment Day, PBC and its IAQ division, Breathe Easy joined hands with In AWE to create awareness on Health & Wellness Initiatives at Work Place and the Remedies of Air Pollution. The event was organized in DLF Promenade, Vasant Kunj. It was a day-long event that began before noon and ended by evening. For PBC, the first building outside Australia to be NABERS certified for its good Indoor Environment Quality, Health and Wellness of the occupants come first. Therefore, we have taken various measures to ensure that Human Experience is enhanced. We have created modules that are not only environment-friendly but also enhance the Health Quotient of people, further up-scaling their satisfaction level. To let people have a glimpse of our office space so that they get to know and believe that it is possible to stay healthy even one is working and even in the World’s most polluted city, Delhi, we arranged a virtual tour of our building through an album. The event was a success. Our objectives for organizing the same with a different concept were met. Creating Spaces that Promote Health & Wellness @ Work Pg. 41 Copyright © 2015 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report 2014-15 IX. ENCOURAGE THE DEVELOPMENT AND DIFFUSION OF ENVIRONMENTALLY FRIENDLY TECHNOLOGIES FIRST MAJOR INITIATIVE: LEED DYNAMIC PLAQUE INSTALLATION We became the first office building in India to install USGBC ‘LEED Dynamic Plaque’ and with this we became a “LIVE” building. The LEED Dynamic Plaque is a building performance monitoring and scoring platform. It measures the building’s resource use on a real-time basis. It keeps a tab on all the parameters that constitute a building’s performance. They are: Water, Energy Consumption, Waste Reduction, Transportation and Human Experience. Recently, both the teams; USGBC and International Well Building Institute (IWBI), visited PBC to install the LEED Dynamic Plaque. To name a few, Rick Fedrizzi, CEO and Founding Chair, USGBC and CEO, GBCI; Mahesh Ramanujam, COO, USGBC and President, GBCI; P Gopalakrishnan, Director and Head, Asia Pacific & Middle East, USGBC; and Kamyar Vaghar, Strategic Advisor, IWBI were a part of the panel. Creating Spaces that Promote Health & Wellness @ Work Pg. 42 Copyright © 2015 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report 2014-15 “PBC is a true leader in the sustainability arena,” said Mahesh Ramanujam, COO, U.S. Green Building Council. “By being the first building in India to have the LEED Dynamic Plaque, they are paving the way of future building performance. Similar to the way LEED undeniably changed the face of the modern design and construction markets, so too will the LEED Dynamic Plaque change the way we think about building performance from now on.” The Dynamic Plaque is said to be a platform of public declaration of a building’s environmental/ sustainable efforts and an Ultimate Mentor that helps the structures in maximizing their Green Potential on an ongoing / continual basis. Mr. Rick Fedrizzi and Mr. Ramanujam along with their other team members installed the online interface of Dynamic Plaque and handed over to our CEO Mr. Kamal Meattle, creating another landmark for PBC. USGBC LEED and IWBI Team handing over the Dynamic Plaque to Team PBC Creating Spaces that Promote Health & Wellness @ Work Pg. 43 Copyright © 2015 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report 2014-15 As compared with other buildings in the same locality, PBC has a far better air quality, in the world’s most polluted city. The air quality inside PBC shows a reduction of 55%, 77% and 82% for CO2, PM 2.5 and PM 10 levels, respectively. VOCs in PBC are below detectable levels. Air Quality inside PBC is as fresh and clean as one would find in the mountains. IAQ at PBC conforms to ASHRAE and WHO specified guidelines. (From left to right) Rick Fedrizzi, Kamyar Vaghar and P. Gopalakrishnan The guests were happy to learn about the benefits of a technological innovation at PBC i.e. integration of HVAC with IAQ system. IAQ system plays a key role in maintaining Indoor Environment Quality in PBC’s building. Therefore, PBC has created a Green House, which helps in detoxifying and cooling the air that is taken from the outside, and it is done before pumping it into the building. Green House is the Green Lungs of PBC. Creating Spaces that Promote Health & Wellness @ Work Pg. 44 Copyright © 2015 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report 2014-15 SECOND MAJOR ACHIEVEMENT: NABERS & CETEC 5 PALM RATING (From left to right): Kamal Meattle, Dr. Vyt Garnys, Barun Aggarwal, Shruti Guleri and Smruti S Samantray National Australian Built Environment Rating System (NABERS) is a performance-based rating system for existing buildings, which rated the Paharpur Business Centre based on its measured operational impact on the environment on several parameters including indoor air quality, ventilation and levels of pollutants. While announcing the first international certification for NABERS, Dr. Vyt Garnys, Managing Director, CETEC Pty Ltd said, “PBC qualified NABERS parameters by using unique technologies in combination with best practice and extremely high aspirational targets set by the owners. PBC addressed achievement of high Indoor Environment Quality by attending to control all pollutants such as fine particles, CO2 and enhancement of oxygen levels by the use of plants and mechanical practices. The lighting levels, noise and comfort parameters were controlled by continous recording and attention to data of the building’s operation. The outstanding feature of the NABERS rating was the exceptionally high ‘occupant-satisfaction score’. This is one of the highest score that has been achieved by the Australian NABERS protocol that we have measured so far. Satisfied tenants are gold for their own business as well as for PBC’s tenants’ retention. Finally, this high tenant satisfaction also indicates high occupant productivity which is vital for India’s recovery.” Mr. Peter Varghese AO, Secretary of the Department of Foreign Affairs & Trade, Australia Government say, “Being performance based, a NABERS Indoor Environment rating provides proof that the technologies which have been implemented at PBC have been commissioned well, are being managed well, and are providing tangible benefits to the building’s occupants in the form of a more comfortable and healthy workplace. This rating shows that the team at PBC understands that operating a truly sustainable building means not just minimizing its impact on the environment, but also maximizing the wellbeing of the people who occupy it. The investments that have been made into making this a high performance building will provide widespread returns, as healthy, comfortable occupants become more productive employees and more energized citizens.” Creating Spaces that Promote Health & Wellness @ Work Pg. 45 Copyright © 2015 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report 2014-15 Mr. Kamal Meattle, CEO Paharpur Business Centre, added “Given that Delhi’s air is practically unfit for breathing; it is great that we have a third party verification of good air quality at PBC – for wellness and productivity of our occupants. People working in buildings need to keep well and it is a well known fact that indoor air is 10 times more polluted than outside or ambient air. What does one do, when the ambient air is itself unacceptable?” Mr. Jahangir Khan (Joint President and Director) with Dr. Vyt Garnys and Mr. Meattle Bruce Murphy (Counsellor – Industry and Science Australian High Commission – New Delhi) Team PBC with Dr. Vyt Garnys He further added, “PBC cares for its occupants – their Wellness. This goes beyond its USGBC LEED Platinum and BEE 5 star rating. We have achieved a 4 star rating for our Indoor Environment Quality, in NABERS’ assessment.” Creating Spaces that Promote Health & Wellness @ Work Pg. 46 Copyright © 2015 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report 2014-15 Barun Aggarwal, Director, Breathe EasyTM, IAQ Division of PBC said, “We are delighted to be the first recipient of NABERS Certification outside Australia. It reiterates our commitment to Occupants’ Health & Wellbeing in a bult environment by ensuring excellent Indoor Environment Quality. Air Quality Solutions has now started gaining momentum in India. It is one of the critical components of Indoor Environment Quality. PBC, now being certified with a clear International certification, paves the way for others to replicate healthy indoor environment at homes and offices.” A CUP OF MOUNTAIN FRESH AIR IN GREEN CAFÉ? You would surely go to café expecting to experience the taste of coffees of different flavours blended with roasted and grounded coffee beans. That aroma does strike your heart, mind and taste-buds. But experiencing a mug of freshly prepared coffee with fresh and oxygenated air. Have you ever been to a café that enhances human productivity, and health quotient, in a natural way? Café Einstein is one such unique café that operates with a concept of not just providing delicious and health food but also in offering mountain fresh ambience to spend some time. This newly retrofitted café has CO2 levels lower than the ambient air, something equivalent to the purity of air found in operation theatre, making it one of its kinds. It has an array of hydropones. Plants that are grown in hydrophones are normally 10% more efficient than those grown by conventional means of gardening. These hydroponically grown air-purifying plants help in detoxifying the indoor environment so that the occupant breathes fresh and oxygenated air that keeps his mind and body healthy throughout his presence in the building. The indoor air quality inside the building conforms to ASHRAE and WHO specified standards and is as pure as one would find in Davos or Gulmarg. What’s more? Food quality conforms to ISO 22000 and FSSAI guidelines. One can get a range of cookbooks to go through along with wi-fi facility that can be arranged on demand. Creating Spaces that Promote Health & Wellness @ Work Pg. 47 Copyright © 2015 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report 2014-15 GREEN DIWALI Delhi is unfit for living between Diwali and Holi because of the elevated levels of air pollution. Therefore, PBC decided to organize campaigns that can raise awareness amongst the people as to why all should say no to fireworks and says yes to a green Diwali while promoting Community fireworks as a corrective measure to celebrate this festival. We organized two campaigns: 1. Placard Campaign All our employees at PBC actively participated in this campaign to spread the word, “Say No to Fireworks” and we let it free on social media platforms for people to join this revolution. 2. Campaign In collaboration with Select City Walk Creating Spaces that Promote Health & Wellness @ Work Pg. 48 Copyright © 2015 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report 2014-15 Breathe Easy, IAQ Division of PBC Collaborated with Select City Walk, one of the biggest malls in South Delhi to promote the campaign, “Say No to Fore Crackers”. We had placed signing boards at strategic locations so that people come and sign their names with a message and take an oath to not to polluted the city on this festival. It was an 8-day campaign and approximately 2,000 people took an oath to celebrate a grand Diwali not a loud one. People signing the oath board to show their commitments towards Green Diwali Creating Spaces that Promote Health & Wellness @ Work Pg. 49 Copyright © 2015 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report 2014-15 Some more supporters who agreed to say ‘No’ to fireworks on Diwali Creating Spaces that Promote Health & Wellness @ Work Pg. 50 Copyright © 2015 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report 2014-15 NO TOBACCO DAY On world, “No Tobacco Day”, we ran a virtual campaign on social media and on the TFTs placed inside the building like in elevators, rooms etc. The intent was to get more convinced people leave smoking, hence have healthy lungs. NANHI CHHAAN With the motto of supporting Equal Opportunity for all while standing against the crime, female foeticide, every year PBC organizes a plantation drive in Nehru Place Greens Park. Wherein all the PBC members celebrate the birth of a girl child by making the proud parents plant a sapling in her name. They also take an oath to take care of that plant the way they do for their child. This is a CSR initiative, and is known as, Nanhi Chaan”. Creating Spaces that Promote Health & Wellness @ Work Pg. 51 Copyright © 2015 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report 2014-15 Promoting Girl Child and Planting Tress: PBC Team Members and proud parents of baby girls BELIEVING IN GREATER ENVIRONMENT RESPONSIBILITY Environmental awareness amongst PBC team members & stakeholders is always encouraged. This motivates us in establishing partnerships with our important stakeholders, driving the organization towards sustainable development. Due to our inherent values and environmental sensitivity, we are perceived as a great place to work. We have initiated several awareness programs for school children, employees, clients, community on climate change. Some of the initiatives for promotion of our environmental responsibility towards community & stakeholder are: • Celebrating Earth Day & Environment Day in order to create awareness & scale the critical issues concerning our planet and relating them to the sustainability of our business. • Regular interaction with school children to sensitize them to issues relating to environment i.e. water and energy management, planting trees for a better air quality, etc etc • In-house employee awareness programmes Environmental awareness amongst PBC team members & stakeholders is always encouraged. This motivates us in establishing partnerships with our important stakeholders, driving the organization towards sustainable development. Due to our inherent values and environmental sensitivity, we are perceived as a great place to work. Creating Spaces that Promote Health & Wellness @ Work Pg. 52 Copyright © 2015 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report 2014-15 We have initiated several awareness programs for school children, employees, clients, community on climate change. Some of the initiatives for promotion of our environmental responsibility towards community & stakeholder are: • Tree Plantation and Cleanliness drives on the occasion of Earth Day & Environment Day. • Regular interaction with school children, vendors, clients, community etc to sensitize them to issues relating to environment & water management • Awareness Programmes for employees and their families. TAKING THE “GREEN” MESSAGE BOTH TO THE INDIVIDUAL STUDENTS AND SCHOOLS With the belief that by educating children about sustainable measures one can help the generation to be environmentally responsible and wise, PBC has been proactively spreading awareness on green concepts amongst school children. Team PBC regularly interacts and educates school / college students. They are made aware on the importance of energy & water conservation, waste management, resource optimization and natural ways to combat air pollution. We demonstrate our various initiatives so as to make them aware that these are doable anywhere in any of the geographies of the World. Each individual can contribute in making our World a greener and more sustainable home for all and the coming generations. We also organize workshops on training them about how to make bottle planters. To make this more impactful, we also ask parents or teachers to join the learning sessions. During a training session for student and parents Creating Spaces that Promote Health & Wellness @ Work Pg. 53 Copyright © 2015 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report 2014-15 D. ANTI-CORRUPTION X. BUSINESS SHOULD WORK AGAINST ALL FORMS OF CORRUPTION, INCLUDING EXTORTION AND BRIBERY PBC believes in doing business in a sustainable and ethical manner. This is why we practice, promote and safeguard the anti-corruption laws at all levels of business. We are deeply committed to the principles of UN Global Compact. We have partnered in various initiatives of GCNI, quite proactively. One of them is, “Business Case for AntiCorruption in India” which is an anthology of case studies on anti-corruption. GCNI had taken up pressing corruption issues in Indian context, in a phased manner that addresses the sphere of public procurement, supply chain transparency, bribery and fraud, sustainability, ethical governance and more. Various renowned companies participated in this study and PBC was one of them. PBC is the only mSME that is a signatory to UNGC. To assist GCNI in building a bioscope of anti-corruption and ethical practices being carried in different Indian organizations, we conducted internal audits to check the compliance of the procedures and update the same, so as to ensure that correct message is disseminated. By analyzing various internal case studies, we could project how we maintain integrity in business by adhering to anti-corruption and nine other principles. Under the “Zero Tolerance Policy” we have clearly indicated that PBC does not tolerate any unethical conduct or violation of policies. To show our complete support to the GCNI’s initiative we came forward with some instances pertaining to the anticorruption policy. While citing one instance of violation of ethics, conduct and policy, we have shown the way we tackled the situation and resolved it. We have a dedicated Quality Assurance (QA) team that ensures that quality of services and business ethics are adhered to. It works conjointly with Finance, Human Resources and Legal Departments to check meticulously, that the standards, codes, regulatory and statutory requirements are met whilst controlling and monitoring PBC’s daily operations. Regular internal audits are conducted for the same. We propagate the same to all our stakeholders (internal and external) to ascertain that all of us are on the same page. At PBC, we have maintained transparency in the business policies to nullify corruption and encourage ethical work culture. In addition to the internal audits, we also organize Third Party Audits of different management systems. Each department has different set of SOPs and legal requirements which are modified and updated as and when required. Our policy on Gift and Hospitality, mandates that no gifts or monetary favour should be taken by any employee or any member of their immediate family, from the contractors, suppliers, clients/ customers or anyone else having dealings with the company. In the circumstances where it is customary to do so, employees are permitted to accept such gifts of nominal value or favors provided that such gifts or favors are not extended and/or accepted for the purpose or with any personal interest or unethical purposes. Creating Spaces that Promote Health & Wellness @ Work Pg. 54 Copyright © 2015 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report 2014-15 The company does not condone any violation of the law, unethical business, dishonesty or other participation in any illegal act such as bribery, fraud and theft. However, any employee violating the company’s code of conduct and/or exhibiting unethical behavior is subject to an investigation and appropriate action is taken against the violator in an impartial / unbiased manner. In addition, to ensuring and encouraging honest and ethical conduct, the said code also covers issues related to integrity, confidentiality, insider trading, dealings with outsiders, gifts & entertainment and penalty for breach/corruption. The biggest risk for any organization is handling corruption. PBC sees corruption as a serious issue be it within employees; within authorities or within vendors. It strongly discourages such practices. PBC believes that strong values and ethics is the foundation of sustainable and profitable business and an organization’s culture is the strong predictor of its market value. Organizations with sound value system and strong ethics, along with its commitment to good Governance, are more likely to succeed than the ones that have scant regard for values, principles and ethics in business. Therefore, doing business responsibly and in an ethical manner is the only way forward for all to remain in business for times to come. PBC intends to build an effective compliance program and risk mitigation programme and continue to raise awareness on ethical policies and practices within its stakeholders through training sessions for its employees, customers, vendors and other important stakeholders. PBC incorporates ethical practices in advertisement and promotional activities as it believes that business reputation and branding impact business enhancement & improvement. In conclusion Operating in 5 major Indian cities, GCNI’s has vested efforts in establishing a semiotic relationship with the overall mandate and principles of UNGC, which is commendable. PBC appreciates the efforts that it has taken and has committed itself whole-heartedly to complying UNGC Ten Principles. In addition to giving insights of company policies and regulations for case studies of GCNI, we have also shown active participation in various conferences, discussion forums and workshops organized by GCNI. The story of our journey towards the achievement of UNGC Ten Principles continues…… Creating Spaces that Promote Health & Wellness @ Work Pg. 55 Copyright © 2015 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report 2014-15 BUZZ IN MEDIA Creating Spaces that Promote Health & Wellness @ Work Pg. 56 Copyright © 2015 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report 2014-15 Creating Spaces that Promote Health & Wellness @ Work Pg. 57 Copyright © 2015 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report 2014-15 Creating Spaces that Promote Health & Wellness @ Work Pg. 58 Copyright © 2015 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report 2014-15 Creating Spaces that Promote Health & Wellness @ Work Pg. 59 Copyright © 2015 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report 2014-15 Creating Spaces that Promote Health & Wellness @ Work Pg. 60 Copyright © 2015 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report 2014-15 Creating Spaces that Promote Health & Wellness @ Work Pg. 61 Copyright © 2015 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report 2014-15 Creating Spaces that Promote Health & Wellness @ Work Pg. 62 Copyright © 2015 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report 2014-15 ROAD AHEAD • Working Towards achieving another milestone USGBC WELL (American) Certification. This certification focuses on different parameters pertaining to health and wellness quotient in a built environment. By December 2015 • In order to optimize the health benefits that an occupant can derive by the virtue of being in this building, we are planning to set up a Gym in the lungs of our building, i.e. Green House – By October 2015 • We are also planning to start a Health Food Court within our facility. By October 2015 • In accordance to our commitment towards Women’s Empowerment Principles (WEPs) and United Nations Global Compact, we plan to employ larger number of women employees in PBC, in non-women oriented verticals & also to induct senior women employees in the PBC Board. • To scale up the skill development programs at PBCpartner & collaborate with more universities and colleges in order to increase the number of interns that PBC takes in for specific skill development and on the job training. An ongoing activity • To promote PBC as one of the best office space and conferencing destinations in Delhi & NCR that offers mountain fresh and healthy indoor environment to work Creating Spaces that Promote Health & Wellness @ Work Pg. 63 Copyright © 2015 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report 2014-15 IMAGE SOURCE We have used some images from different sources in order to convey and express the message in an impactful manner. The details of the same are mentioned the table given below. Sl Image used Image Name Image Source No. 1. Bicycle near a sea shore in the cover bicycles-24a Santabanta.com page 2. People clip art in vision and mission Group_people_icon commons.wikimedia.org page 3. Green Eye in vision and mission page MPj043737800001.236162223 Expelprosys.com 4. Business Ethics in vision and mission the-importance-of-businesswww.thebusinesstrends.net page ethics_2 5. Bicycle leaning against the wall in the 82159-bicycle-on-corner-androidwww.mobiletoonescom cover page wallpaper Creating Spaces that Promote Health & Wellness @ Work Pg. 64 Copyright © 2015 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report 2014-15 Creating Spaces that Promote Health & Wellness @ Work Pg. 65 Copyright © 2015 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report 2014-15
