Un Global Compact Communication on Progress / 2014 Report Content 1. Executive Statement 3 2. Group Overview 4 3. People (Principles 1-6) 5 3.1 Responsible Supply Chain Management 5 3.1.1 Scope of the Egmont Social Compliance Programme 6 3.1.2 Audit Findings 7 3.1.3 Goals for 2015 9 3.2 Product Safety 9 3.2.1 Inspections 9 3.2.2 Stakeholder Contact 10 3.3 Egmont Workplaces and Initiatives 2014 11 3.4 Egmont Policy on Gender Composition in Management 12 4. Planet (Principles 7-9) 14 4.1 Environmental Policy 14 4.2 Business Examples Climate and Environmental Initiatives in 2014 14 4.2.1 Egmont IT 14 4.2.2 Egmont Headquarters 15 4.2.3 Egmont Printing Service 16 4.3 Sustainable Paper Sourcing – PREPS 16 5. Profit (Principle 10) 17 5.1 Anti-Corruption and Bribery Policy 17 5.2 Whistleblowing Policy 17 6. CSR Activities beyond the UNGC Principles 18 6.1 The Charitable Activities of the Egmont Foundation 18 6.2 Safe Internet – Online Child Safety 20 Un Global Compact Communication on Progress 2014 Report 2 1. Executive Statement Egmont supports the UN Global Compact principles. Responsible behaviour is essential in being a strong and trusted media group. The UN Global Compact principles constitute the formal framework that expresses Egmont’s fundamental position and conduct. Egmont adheres to and supports the principles and promotes them towards partners and suppliers. Egmont committed to the UN Global Compact principles in January 2013, but Egmont’s responsibility and social engagement dates back to the company’s origin in 1878. In 2014, we continued our efforts to set standards of excellence in our businesses throughout the world, to demonstrate responsible conduct in our operations – and to respect and protect the rights of the individual and the environment. You can read about Egmont’s contribution under the headlines of People, Planet and Profit, and our CSR activities beyond UN Global Compact. This report also includes mandatory information regarding climate, human rights and policy on the gender composition in accordance with article 99a of the Danish Financial Statements Act (Årsregnskabsloven) . Steffen Kragh, President & CEO of Egmont Un Global Compact Communication on Progress 2014 Report 3 2. Group Overview Divisions Publishing Books Film TV Geographical Coverage Employees 6,300 Un Global Compact Communication on Progress 2014 Report 4 3. People (Principles 1-6) UN GLOBAL COMPACT Principles on People – Human and Labour Rights: Businesses should 1. Support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights 2. Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses 3. Uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining 4. Support the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour 5. Support the effective abolition of child labour 6. Eliminate discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Egmont takes its responsibility to respect human and labour rights seriously and over the years we have established policies and programmes to support these important rights – internally in the Egmont group related to the employees and externally related to manufacturers of Egmont products. Our progress in 2014 and our goals for 2015 within these areas are described below. 3.1. Responsible Supply Chain Management Egmont’s programme within responsible supply chain management, the Egmont Social Compliance Programme, aims to ensure 3rd party supplier compliance with Egmont’s Code of Conduct, setting standards within 4 areas: Human rights Labour rights Environment Anti-corruption and bribery The Egmont Code of Conduct was introduced in 2004. In 2014 it underwent a general revision with focus on defining the term “Business Partner”, including an update of the Anti-corruption and Bribery section. The revised Code of Conduct will be implemented across Egmont and towards our suppliers during 2015 and is available on www.egmont.com/int/social-responsibility. The Egmont Social Compliance Programme • Mapping of suppliers across Egmont entities as per risk evaluation • Social auditing of Egmont suppliers against the Egmont Code of Conduct based upon a risk evaluation involving human rights, labour rights, environment and anti-bribery • Ensuring compliance with licensor/retailer requirements on social compliance Un Global Compact Communication on Progress 2014 Report 5 3.1.1 Scope of the Egmont Social Compliance Programme In order to identify the key focus areas of the Egmont Social Compliance Programme, a simple materiality exercise has been initiated defining the opportunities and risks for Egmont based upon a mapping of key stakeholder concerns and the assessed importance to Egmont. The subjects located in the upper right corner of the matrix are pivotal to our immediate and long-term success. The subjects located in the centre are assessed to be second priority. Materiality Overview – Social Compliance High First Priorities: • Product Safety, including Level of concern for Stakeholders i.e. use of chemicals • Supply chain: integrity, control and compliance towards human and labour rights • Anti-bribery Second Priorities: • Paper used for print of books Licensors, Regulators & End Consumers and magazines • Impact from own facilities (i.e. office facilities & cinemas) as well as 3rd party business operations. • Environmental policy Low High Importance to Egmont The materiality exercise serves as a tool to support Egmont’s ongoing management of our responsibility to respect human and labour rights within our supply chain. Factors specifically related to 3rd party suppliers are evaluated based upon the following: • Which suppliers are most likely to violate fundamental rights for human rights and labour standards? This applies to both the type of product and physical location. • Which instruments can be used to verify the compliance level of Egmont’s suppliers? • Which instruments can be used to ensure remediation when applicable and to measure progress? Egmont’s Social Compliance Programme focuses primarily on kids’ products. These are manufactured in high volumes and mainly in Asia where generally there is reduced focus on social standards at workplaces. To keep track of suppliers’ compliance level within social compliance, social audits based upon Egmont’s Code of Conduct are conducted by preferred auditing partners on behalf of Egmont. The results of a social audit are used by Egmont to determine the social conditions at a specific supplier as well as any remediation needed and the relevant timeframe for the remediation. Within the scope of the Egmont Social Compliance Programme, the suppliers are located mainly in Asia and part of Europe. Egmont has divided supplier locations into three groups with different audit frequency and is currently re-visiting the risk evaluations of the countries concerned. Un Global Compact Communication on Progress 2014 Report 6 Social audits are snapshots of the worker conditions at the audited facilities providing an impression of the social standards at a factory at the time of the audit. Egmont acknowledges that workplace conditions might change over time due to e.g. socio-economic reasons or facility changes, which is why we operate a continuous remediation approach. 3.1.2 Audit Findings Egmont expects certain workplace standards to be in place at suppliers of Egmont products at all times (Minimum Standards), and suppliers are expected to be cooperative and committed to implementing sustainable improvements over time. Egmont’s Minimum Standards • No child labour • No forced labour • Compliance with at least the legal minimum salary • No risk of losing life or limb • No overall alarming standards During 2014, approximately 100 Egmont audits have been conducted at suppliers of Egmont products and, furthermore, approximately 230 external audit reports of accepted accredited social auditing standards have been evaluated by Egmont’s Social Compliance department. Of the audit reports evaluated in 2014, three audits showed non-compliance with Egmont’s minimum standards: • Two of the cases concerned non-compliance with minimum salary. Egmont has followed up to ensure salary regulation and documentation of requested compensation to the affected employees • The third non-compliance with Egmont’s minimum standards was raised due to an overall critical audit result including uncertainty about the facility location, co-mingling of workers and possible child labour. In this case, Egmont conducted a new audit confirming the facility location and disproving the child labour and co-mingling concerns For non-compliances not related to minimum standards, we generally request remediation within a specific time frame. Un Global Compact Communication on Progress 2014 Report 7 Benefits of a Social Compliance Focus an Example With two supplier training sessions on social compliance arranged for core suppliers of magazine cover mounts in November 2014, Egmont expands the range of tools used to ensure supplier compliance with the Egmont Code of Conduct. Egmont’s Social Compliance Programme focusing on workplace conditions at suppliers of Egmont products has now been running for almost 10 years. Over the years, experiences have been gathered on responsible supply chain management and social auditing – and as a consequence, the methods of ensuring sustainable remediation and compliance at core suppliers are being refined. Elaborating Egmont’s Approach As a new initiative in November 2014, two training sessions were arranged for Egmont’s core suppliers of magazine cover mounts in China. The training events were arranged by Egmont Social Compliance in cooperation with Egmont Sourcing HK and Elevate Ltd., one of Egmont’s preferred partners within social auditing. > Click here to watch a video on the training sessions Social Compliance Connected to Productivity and Turn-Over One of the main challenges for some suppliers participating in the training is a lack of sustainable remediation over time. As a result, Egmont has conducted numerous audits showing stagnating audit results or even new findings from audit to audit. The primary reason to initiate the training sessions is to introduce suppliers to Egmont’s requirements, and to explain the importance of social compliance, this also as an opportunity to strengthen business relationships on a long-term basis. Social compliance efforts are not always perceived by suppliers to be directly connected to productivity or profit – and thereby, sustainable remediation is not highly prioritised. The key message of the training sessions was, therefore, that by improving management systems (efficient production planning), ensuring acceptable employee conditions (satisfied workers/lower worker turnover) and strengthening the workplace safety (less accidents), suppliers can positively affect their production, efficiency and turnover. Fostering Enhanced Efforts The training supports Egmont’s commitment to the UN Global Compact as well as the supplier compliance requirements as also imposed by many of Egmont’s licensors/retailers. With 90% of core cover mount suppliers participating and satisfactory evaluation scores, these training sessions have formed the basis for better supplier understanding of Egmont’s requirements and why social compliance efforts are important. Facts on the Training Sessions • Full day training sessions in both Shenzhen and in Xiamen • 90% of core cover mount suppliers connected to Egmont Sourcing HK participated in the training sessions • Evaluation scores: 26% rate Excellent 39% rate Very Good 20% rate Good 10% rate Satisfactory Un Global Compact Communication on Progress 2014 Report 8 3.1.3 Goals for 2015 In 2015, Egmont will continue to run and further implement the Social Compliance Programme across the business, especially with focus on Egmont’s own licensees. A goal for 2015 is to complete country risk evaluations. Further, during 2015 Egmont will be implementing a more systematic approach to registering social audit findings with the aim of better benchmarking across suppliers, while at the same time being able to report more specifically on supplier compliance levels, challenges and progress. Egmont also plans to evaluate the potential use of e-learning tools as a follow up on the supplier training sessions. 3.2. Product Safety Egmont is constantly focusing on product safety to ensure that all Egmont products are safe to use. This is especially crucial for products aimed at children – such as books, toys and other products distributed together with our magazines. Via membership of relevant industry associations and continuous dialogue with major test institutes, experts within toy safety standardisation as well as national and European authorities, Egmont is constantly kept up to date on the most recent development within safety requirements and regulation. The Egmont product safety requirements are defined in a comprehensive safety manual which has been updated twice in 2014. Requirements regarding cosmetics are defined in a separate manual, which was also updated in 2014. Product safety assessment and testing are done for all toys and cover mounts prior to production. The products will be amended if safety concerns are identified. 3.2.1 Inspections To ensure quality and product safety, Egmont is highly dependent on its suppliers. In 2014, we conducted additional quality and safety inspections of 561 orders for toys distributed together with our magazines. This is an increase of 56% compared to 2013. Supplier capabilities are monitored via technical assessments and continuous follow-up visits to the factories manufacturing cover mounts. Workshops related to quality management and product safety with special focus on materials and chemical aspects are carried out for key suppliers of cover mounts when deemed needed. Such workshops are planned to be carried out in 2015. Un Global Compact Communication on Progress 2014 Report 9 3.2.2 Stakeholder Contact In 2014, Egmont produced in excess of 100 million cover mount items and 27 consumers have contacted Egmont with product safety queries related to these products. Within the Nordic and UK markets, we have received 11 consumer queries regarding books and activity products. All queries have been analysed and follow-up action, including dialogue with our suppliers, has been taken. During 2014, Egmont received no complaints regarding serious safety incidents. We have been in contact with the authorities in two cases where products have been in non-compliance with legal requirements and in one case where the instruction could be interpreted as misleading. In all cases, we have voluntarily withdrawn the products from the market. No consumers have been injured by the products in question. In October 2014, the Danish consumer council, Tænk, tested certain chemical properties in Egmont cover mounts and concluded that some substances were beyond the legally set limits. However, Egmont’s internal documentation showed the opposite which was afterwards confirmed by re-testing. The case was covered by the media in Denmark and resulted in dialogue with national authorities where we were able to provide documentation showing compliance with legal requirements. In particular, two products were in focus. One of the cases – a stationery item – was closed by the authorities as the product was classified as a non-toy which was in opposition to the view of the consumer council. The council had claimed that the chemical requirements for toys should apply to stationery. In the other case, final conclusion is pending both the Chinese supplier in question and Egmont have tested the products prior to production and followed up with additional tests after production. The tests have been carried out at different test institutes in China, Hong Kong and Germany. All tests but one showed perfect compliance with the requirements. One test had readings beyond the acceptable limits and the results of a root-cause analysis have been shared with the authorities, but final comments are yet to be received. Our goal for 2015 will be to have no serious safety incidents as well as no non-compliances or recalls due to safety aspects. Inspection – Design and Product safety Testing and Mass production during / after Market feedback specification assessment samples production 1004 safety 561 1243 tests 27 contacts re assessments inspections on carried out cover mounts carried out cover mounts 11 contacts re books and activity products in UK and Scandinavia 3 product withdrawals Un Global Compact Communication on Progress 2014 Report 10 3.3. Egmont Workplaces and Initiatives 2014 Egmont has a Group Personnel Policy and a set of Principles of Good Leadership, setting overall standards for Egmont’s work environment, health and safety. In 2014, Egmont created a video-based on-board programme describing our values, policies and responsibilities. The purpose of the on-board programme is to give new employees a good introduction to working in Egmont and to give them an understanding of what to expect when employed in Egmont. The programme is sent to all new employees no matter where in the world they are employed and is also accessible to existing employees via Egmont’s intranet. Egmont’s on-board programme: In 2014, Egmont carried out an employee survey, the Egmont People Survey. Egmont has conducted employee surveys since 2004, but in 2014 we chose a new provider, who was able to provide national benchmarks for the countries in which Egmont operates. The 2014 survey showed that Egmont benchmarks significantly above average in terms of job satisfaction, motivation and loyalty. Further, the People Survey uncovered that Egmont’s managers are rated high above national averages – 41% of High LeadershipSterling all Egmont managers are in the category “Sterling focused manager Manager leadership skills Managers”, meaning they are both very skilled 41% professionally and very skilled in their people ager management abilities. The comparable, country an m weighted average is 25%. nced la Ba Weak Professional Manager Manager Egmont People Survey Manager Rating High Professional skills In order to develop Egmont managers and employees, Egmont Master Class was launched in February 2014. The Master Class is a series of seminars and training courses, focusing on business development, with specific focus on: • Future scenarios and strategy for the media business • Business models and strategic innovation • Innovation tools • Change management A total of 8 events were held from February to November, and the response was very positive. Besides the Master Class activity, Egmont has held training courses in project management, presentation technique and change management as well as conducted our mandatory General Leadership Training for managers. Response from Egmont employees and managers on the Master Class and the General Leadership Training has been collected in this video. Un Global Compact Communication on Progress 2014 Report 11 3.4. Egmont Policy on Gender Composition in Management Egmont is a gender diverse company with a very equal split of men and women employed – as well as an almost completely equal distribution of male and female managers: Employees in the Egmont Group by gender according to People Survey 2014: 54% women 46% men Managers in the Egmont group by gender: 48% women 52% men Looking only at the Danish organisations, women account for 44% of all managers – this is an increase of 4%, compared to 2013. Managers in Egmont’s Danish organisations by gender: 44% women 56% men In 2014, the Board of Trustees of the Egmont Foundation elected Dr. Martin Enderle from Germany, who has held management positions in Scout24, Deutsche Telekom, Speed Ventures and McKinsey & Co. The search process involved professional assistance to identify both female and male candidates to be evaluated against for example specified industrial, digital and technology competence criteria. The Board of Trustees believes that its members should be chosen for their overall competences but recognizes the benefits of diversity. On that basis, the board has set out a policy for the gender composition in management positions which includes a quantitative target for women on Egmont boards. Egmont’s target is to have one female member elected to the board on the basis of the Charter (or by the general meeting). All the current members of the Board of Trustees of the Egmont Foundation elected on the basis of the Charter are men, and the target has therefore not yet been reached. The Board of Trustees of the Egmont Foundation is elected for up to three ordinary periods of four years and may be elected for up to two further periods of two years. The policy for the gender composition in management positions is a Group policy, meaning that both policy and targets are applicable to those of Egmont’s Danish companies that are required according to Danish law to set such targets and have a policy. The companies are: Egmont International Holding A/S, Egmont Publishing Magasiner A/S, Lindhardt & Ringhof A/S, Nordisk Film A/S, Nordisk Film Distribution A/S, Nordisk Film Biografer A/S and Egmont Administration A/S. In all of these companies except Egmont International Holding A/S and Nordisk Film Biografer A/S, the target has been met as one out of three board members elected by the general meeting is a woman. In Nordisk Film Biografer A/S all three board members elected by the general meeting are men. In Egmont International Holding A/S all board members elected by the general meeting are men. Un Global Compact Communication on Progress 2014 Report 12 Egmont’s Policy on Gender Composition in Management • Egmont does not discriminate based on gender, age and handicap, ethnic or religious background • Egmont wants to always employ the best-qualified person, irrespective of gender • Egmont aims to have a diverse set of competencies. Diversity is not a matter of gender only, but can also include educational background, functional experience, age, cultural background etc. • When recruiting or promoting people, Egmont demands that both male and female candidates are identified Egmont’s Target for the Underrepresented Gender set in 2013 Egmont has the following target for the underrepresented gender on the Board of Trustees of the Egmont Foundation: • Egmont aims to have one female member elected to the Board of Trustees on the basis of the Charter • According to the Charter of the Egmont Foundation, election to the Board of Trustees takes place when a member’s election period expires. • Egmont uses external help to identify candidates to the Board of Trustees of the Egmont Foundation. Both male and female candidates are identified. The target mentioned above is also valid for those of Egmont’s Danish companies that are covered by the requirement to set such targets. Un Global Compact Communication on Progress 2014 Report 13 4. Planet (Principles 7-9) UN GLOBAL COMPACT Principles on Planet: Businesses should 7. Take a precautionary approach to environmental challenges 8. Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility 9. Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies With regard to protection of the environment, the Egmont Code of Conduct states: “Egmont companies and their Business Partners shall comply with all applicable environmental laws and regulations.” As such, this expectation is aimed both internally and externally. Externally, protection of the environment is part of Egmont’s social auditing of 3rd party suppliers, cf. section 3. 4.1. Environmental Policy During 2014, Egmont has initiated the work on drafting an environmental and climate policy. Due to Egmont’s organisational set-up, it is desirable for the policy to be business-driven. The process of drafting the policy will therefore continue into 2015 in order to allow for the business to be involved and provide feedback. The goal for 2015 is an environmental policy that has been completed and adopted by the business. 4.2 Business Examples Climate and Environmental Initiatives in 2014 Egmont Egmont Egmont IT Printing Headquarters Service 4.2.1 Egmont IT From 2012, Egmont IT experienced an extensive growth in new business and demand for new services from customers within the Egmont group. At the same time, the datacentres were overloaded, cooling was a constant challenge, and adding resources such as servers, storage and networks was increasingly complex. The combination of a vast customer increase and new services put additional strain on the IT infrastructure and on the environment. A new IT strategy was developed and the goal was to meet the customers’ needs as effectively and green as possible. New infrastructure design with a consolidated central datacentre and more efficient servers and storage units was implemented in Egmont headquarters during 2013. The results from the fiscal year 2014 show that the new design is a success, and the overall power consumption has been significantly reduced. From the new datacentre, Egmont IT supports more than 150 businesses and 7000 users. Some examples of the chargebacks on Egmont IT’s green investments: • Today, 90% of all the energy used for cooling in the Egmont datacentre comes directly from renewable energy – resulting in a significant reduction of costs • Egmont IT has been financially awarded twice in 2014 by the Danish Energy Agency due to green IT initiatives Un Global Compact Communication on Progress 2014 Report 14 4.2.2 Egmont Headquarters In Egmont’s headquarters in the centre of Copenhagen, our Property Administration is continuously monitoring the use of electricity. The graph below shows a decrease in electricity consumption measured in KWh. which is partly caused by the replacement of lamps to LED lamps. In 2013, 7 climate centrals were replaced and in the 3-4 months’ replacement period, no electricity was used. This is the reason for the relatively substantial saving in 2013. In August 2014, 2,900 m2 of our vacant office space were rented out and an increase in power consumption was expected. However, actually 2014 resulted in an overall saving of 8% compared to 2013. Total electricity consumption for Egmont Headquarters Total consumption KWh Energy savings are constantly in focus. For example, when re-constructing, the newest technology within lighting is implemented. Un Global Compact Communication on Progress 2014 Report 15 4.2.3 Egmont Printing Service Magazine print across Egmont Publishing is coordinated by the company, Egmont Printing Service A/S. Egmont Printing Service has been established to exploit the synergies within Egmont Publishing, and the strategy is to be cost leader in the market. Controlling the environmental impact related to sourcing of paper used for Egmont Publishing’s magazines mainly relates to the choice of paper suppliers, who are dedicated to environmental matters. In 2014, the majority of paper used for magazine printing was sourced from Nordic forestry – an area considered low risk when it comes to sustainability issues. Not only forestry, but also other environmental areas are the focus of responsible paper sourcing for Egmont’s magazines. For example, one of our paper suppliers is committed to maximising the re-use of materials and minimising the generation of waste – which also includes recycling for the production of paper. Another supplier has been granted the EU Ecolabel, which is based on the entire product life cycle, from production to disposal. These are just some of the environmental challenges that our paper suppliers are committed to. 4.3 Sustainable Paper Sourcing – PREPS Following a series of training sessions across Egmont, four key entities/companies are now engaged with the PREPS system: Egmont Publishing UK, Egmont Verlagsgesellschaften (VGS), Cappelen Damm and Egmont Publishing Polska. Egmont Publishing UK is an internationally recognised leader in the use of paper from sustainable sources and created the forest grading system used by PREPS. Egmont VGS was early adaptor of the PREPS system and has embraced the Egmont aspiration of moving our paper usage on to a more sustainable footing. Egmont Publishing Polska is now accessing the PREPS system and using it to help inform its paper purchasing decisions. Egmont Publishing Polska carries out a key co-production role for the Egmont group and sources products for 16 Egmont entities/companies. The Egmont ambition to use papers sourced from more sustainable forestry sources is moving forwards. Our goal for the coming year is to continue to spread this good practice across a larger proportion of the group. About PREPS • In 2003, Egmont UK developed The Publishers’ database for Responsible Environmental Paper Sourcing (PREPS) • The system grades paper according to a strict set of forestry sustainability criteria of between 1 and 5 stars • The forest source information going into each paper is provided by the manufacturing mills • The PREPS group currently manages a database containing over 650 individual paper brands Un Global Compact Communication on Progress 2014 Report 16 5. Profit (Principle 10) UN GLOBAL COMPACT Principles on Profit: 10. Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery It has always been Egmont’s policy to conduct business without the use of corruption and bribery, and since 2013 Egmont has also had a formal Egmont Anti-Corruption and Bribery policy, describing these viewpoints. 5.1. Anti-Corruption and Bribery Policy In 2014, Egmont continued to communicate the Anti-Corruption and Bribery Policy to business partners and suppliers, integrating a reference to the Policy into business contracts. Further, the section regarding antibribery in Egmont’s Code of Conduct has been updated. In 2014, Egmont continued to inform Egmont employees and managers of the Policy through mandatory e-learning, keeping track that the e-learning is completed. Front page of Egmont’s mandatory e-learning on anti-corruption: 5.2. Whistleblowing Policy To support Egmont’s Whistleblowing Policy, Egmont has a whistleblowing system. The system is an encrypted homepage, through which employees and other stakeholders can voice their suspicion anonymously about serious misconduct carried out by Egmont employees or managers. In 2014, there were 0 reports into the system. Un Global Compact Communication on Progress 2014 Report 17 6. CSR Activities beyond the UNGC Principles Egmont undertakes CSR activities that go beyond the UN Global Compact principles, i.e. the charitable activities of the Egmont Foundation and Egmont’s efforts to secure safe internet conduct for children and youth. 6.1. The Charitable Activities of the Egmont Foundation The charitable activities of the Egmont Foundation are aimed at children and young people, but place a special focus on the most vulnerable of them. The vision for the charitable activities is a good life for children and young people. We work for children and young people to build up their capacity and strengthen their potential so that, ultimately, they will be able to create good lives for themselves. The majority of donations are made in Denmark. However, support is provided in Norway as well as in other countries where Egmont has specific competences and is able to create synergy between activities in the two countries. In 2014, the Egmont Foundation donated EUR 9.8 m to actions aimed at vulnerable children and young people. The activities were focused within these areas: • Care: Helping children and young people to cope with life crises • Learning: Strengthening the desire to learn • A Helping Hand: Donations to children and young people who are vulnerable in relation to economic, social or health issues Un Global Compact Communication on Progress 2014 Report 18 Divorce In 2014, The Egmont Foundation contracted a partnership with Børns Vilkår (Children’s Welfare). The partnership involves a grant of DKK 25 million and the goal is to increase the welfare for children, whose parents are divorced. Children Placed in Care In 2014, the Egmont Foundation’s signature project Lær for Livet (Learn for Life) gave more than 100 children placed in care the opportunity to follow intensive learning courses and to have a personal mentor affiliated. Preliminary results show that the children improve significantly both personally and academically. Lær for Livet’s aim is over a period of ten years to prepare 1000 children placed in care to take a youth education programme. Illness and Death In 2014, the Egmont Foundation issued The Egmont Report for the first time. The subject was illness and death, and in the report children and young people, who have experienced grief or illness, tell what helped, when they had the hardest time – and they give advice on what people can do to help. The Egmont Foundation supports the area Illness and Death with DKK 60 million up until 2016. Parents’ imprisonment In 2014, the Egmont Foundation has launched an analysis with the purpose of clarifying the need for support to children of prisoners. The aim is to initiate better efforts to help this overlooked group of children. Learning In 2014, the Egmont Foundation has supported the Norwegian initiative “Forandringsfabrikken” (“Change Factory”), that works to involve children in the development of Norwegian school, taking as its starting point the need of vulnerable children. Un Global Compact Communication on Progress 2014 Report 19 Nordic Film Foundation The Nordic Film Foundation is an independent part of the Egmont Foundation with its own objectives and focus areas. The Nordic Film Foundation supports the training of talents, thus promoting the good film story. In 2014, the Nordic Film Foundation provided support worth EUR 610,000. For more information, please visit www.egmontfonden.dk 6.2. Safe Internet – Online Child Safety 2014 saw big steps taken towards meeting the Egmont goal of sharing best online safety practice across the group. Detailed guidelines explaining the type of safety features that digital producers should include in their products have been created. An internal knowledge sharing platform has been established to host these guidelines. This platform includes an online safety assessment tool which provides digital managers with safety guidance tailored for the type of products they are working with. The purpose of the safety assessment tool is: • To raise awareness of the Egmont Safe Internet programme • To provide digital managers with a quick way of accessing relevant safe internet guidelines for the products they are developing • To help digital managers reach the goal of all digital products conforming to the Egmont Code of Practice for Online Safety The coming year will see this tool rolled out to a wider audience. An internal campaign to raise awareness and to ensure use of the self-assessment tool will be carried out during 2015. About Safe Internet Due to Egmont’s digital portfolio, Egmont has a responsibility to support good online behaviour. To support this goal, Egmont launched the Egmont Code of Practice for Internet Safety in December 2012. It contains a series of principles that must be applied to digital products aimed at Egmont’s younger audience. Egmont UK contributing to Safer Internet Day 2014 The internet can be a source of inspiration, entertainment and education for children and young people. It can also expose them to risks, so making sure that they understand and know how to avoid these risks is a responsibility all sections of society must share. Safer Internet Day is an annual global event, promoting safer and more responsible use of online and mobile technology to children, young people and their communities. The contribution Egmont UK made towards the success of Safer Internet Day 2014 was in keeping with this spirit of shared responsibility. Egmont UK’s activity for the day included articles promoting safe internet use in two of their biggest magazines, a video interview with an author talking about cyberbullying, creation of a dedicated webpage to host their content and an appearance on Safer Internet Day TV; a true multi-media effort. End of report Un Global Compact Communication on Progress 2014 Report 20 Egmont International Holding A/S Vognmagergade 11 DK-1148 Copenhagen K Denmark Tel +45 33 30 55 50 For more information on Egmont and our performance, please visit www.egmont.com. For questions or comments related to this report, please contact Egmont Corporate Human Resources/Social Compliance at hr@egmont.com. Photo: Steen Brogaard (page 2, 9, 13, 18), Kristian Septimius Krogh (page 1)
