Aeon Environmental and Social Report 2015 Editorial Policy CONTENTS This report reports on characteristic initiatives of Aeon Group Message from the CEO companies, primarily for the General Merchandising Store Aeon Group Overview Business and Supermarket Business. This report presents both environmental and social initiatives of Aeon Group CSR Aeon Group companies, focusing on pure holding company Aeon Co.,Ltd. and the General Merchandising Store and Supermarket Feature 1 Dialogue with Stakeholders Businesses. Initiatives included in the report have been selected based on the level of public interest, the level of emphasis by Aeon Feature 2 The Challenge of Aeon people and other factors. They include environmental conservation activities and social contribution activities conducted together with CSR Management customers as well as initiatives conducted through products and at Corporate Governance stores. Risk Management •Report Period Compliance and Corporate Ethics FY 2014 (March 1, 2014 – February 28, 2015)* *For operating companies with different fiscal years, the relevant Environmental Management time periods are indicated on each report section. Fiscal 2014 Activities •Scope of Report This report covers the pure holding company Aeon Co., Ltd. and its Key Issue 1 consolidated subsidiaries 263 companies, 31 companies equity Realization of a Low-carbon Society method affiliates (as of February 28, 2015). Reducing CO2 in Stores, Reducing CO2 in Products and Logistics, When a section applies to only certain operating companies, it is Generating Electricity at Stores indicated as such. Key Issue 2 The Aeon 1% Club Foundation, whose activities are funded by Conservation of Biodiversity donations made by major Aeon Group companies totaling 1% of Sustainable Resource Usage in Products, Biodiversity Conservation at their pre-tax profits, and the Aeon Environmental Foundation, the Store Level, Contributions to the Community, Initiatives through our which takes part in activities to protect the Earth’s environment, also Products appear in this report. Key Issue 3 •Target Audience Better Use of Resources Our customers, shareholders, students, local residents who live in Initiatives for Zero Waste in Stores and Products, Together with the neighborhood of the stores of the group, business partners, Customers, Strengthening the Management System NPOs, NGOs, government, investors and Aeon people (Aeon employees) Key Issue 4 Addressing social issues •Reference Guidelines Community Involvement, Fair Business Practices, Consumer Issues, Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (G4) Human Rights/Labor Practices Environmental Reporting Guidelines (FY2007 Version), Ministry of the Environment of Japan Update Report Environmental Accounting Guidelines 2005, Ministry of the Tohoku Reconstruction Initiatives Environment of Japan ISO 26000: Guidance on social responsibility GRI Guidelines Indicators Disclaimer This report contains plans and strategies for the future of Aeon Group, as well as predictions and prospects regarding our performance. Such information is based on our determinations and convictions made based in accordance with the facts and information currently available to us. 1 Aeon Environmental and Social Report 2015 Message from the CEO Aeon is aspiring to be ‘Asia’s pre-eminent retailer’ by balancing Aeon Group growth with the sustainable development of society. to shop with confidence regardless of age, the Digital Shift for using online supermarkets and the omni-channel as the central pillar of our approach to growing e-commerce markets, the Urban shift to develop stores and businesses tailored to the lifestyle needs of people with urban lifestyles, and the Asia Shift to provide safe and reliable products and services to people in the China and ASEAN markets. Another cornerstone of this plan is the implementation of product-oriented reforms, Group CEO, including the further reinforcement of the TOPVALU brands. President of AEON CO., LTD. At the same time, Aeon will pursue sustainable management that contributes to a sustainable society and sharing affluence together with customers and all other stakeholders gained Motoya Okada from common group-wide measures carried out in Japan, China, and ASEAN together with producers and manufacturers. Since it was first founded, Aeon has continuously worked to Aeon was the first retailer in Japan to become a signatory to fulfill its mission as a retailer grounded in a basic philosophy the UN Global Compact and since then we have consistently of peace, people, and the community. This mission includes supported and practiced the 10 principles set out therein, continually contributing to a better life for our customers by which has enabled us to steadily implement sustainable supporting their daily needs and continually contributing to management. Once achievement of these efforts has been the development of society via deep ties cultivated with local establishing a framework for shared growth by requesting all people through our businesses. suppliers—everywhere in the world—of TOPVALU products to We have maintained this stance over the years through comply with the Aeon Supply CoC (Code of Conduct). partnerships with like-minded companies in terms the Based on its partnerships over the years with countless commercialization, modernization and industrialization of the companies, Aeon recognizes and respects the fact that diversity retail business, constantly responding to change in the process. is an extremely important value. Harnessing this unique Aeon Today, Aeon employs a workforce of 440,000 and posts more strength of diversity, we are expanding training programs and than 7 trillion yen in operating profit. Starting in FY 2014, we career development initiatives for sharing and practicing our launched the Aeon Group Medium-term Management Plan basic philosophy so that we can become an even stronger (FY 2014 – 2016) to capture new growth opportunities by group of companies. providing solutions to social issues while also responding to Aeon will continue, through dialogue and cooperation the major changes taking place in Asian markets. with our diverse stakeholders, to further evolve sustainable The new Medium-Term Management Plan builds upon the management and to grow over the midand long-term to “4 Shifts” from the previous plan, which includes the Senior Shift become Asia’s pre-eminent retailer. for realizing stores, products and services that enable anyone AEON Basic Principles Pursuing peace, respecting humanity and contributing to local communities, always with the customer’s point of view as its core. The word aeon (ÆON) has its origins in a Latin root meaning Peace “eternity.” The customers’ beliefs and desires comprise the central core of our philosophy. At Aeon, our eternal mission as a corporate group is to benefit our customers, and our operations are thus customer-focused to the highest degree. Peace: Aeon is a corporate group whose operations are dedicated to the pursuit of The Customer peace through prosperity. People: Aeon is a corporate group that respects human dignity and values personal relationships. Community: Aeon is a corporate group rooted in local community life and dedicated to People Community making a continuing contribution to the community. On the basis of the Aeon Basic Principles, Aeon practices its “Customer-First” philosophy with its ever-lasting innovative spirit. Aeon Environmental and Social Report 2015 2 Aeon Group Overview Business Field The Aeon Group consists of around 300 companies in Japan, China and ASEAN, employing over 440,000 people unified in the aim of contributing to a comfortable and convenient lifestyle for our customers. Aeon is mainly a GMS (General Merchandise Store) enterprise, General Merchandise Store Business but is expanding to large mall-type regional commercial area The Segment engages in operating shopping centers (SC) as well as a variety of local commercial general merchandise stores for area specialty shops that supply life’s daily necessities and offer enriching everyday lives of customers specialized services to the local community. In addition, in with specialized product lineups and services. support of our customers’ healthy and comfortable life, we are AEON Retail Co., Ltd., AEON Hokkaido developing a variety of businesses such as small supermarkets, Corporation, SUNDAY CO., LTD., AEON KYUSHU CO., LTD., AEON SUPERCENTER Co., convenience stores, drug stores, and general financial services. Ltd., AEONBIKE CO., LTD., AEON Bakery Co., Ltd., AEON LIQUOR CO., LTD., AEON More than 440,000 Aeon employees, in around 300 Aeon RYUKYU CO., LTD., JOY Co., Ltd. TOPVALU COLLECTION CO., LTD., Bon Belta Co., Ltd. Group companies in Japan, China and ASEAN, are striving to contribute to the convenient and comfortable living of our Supermarket & Discount Store Business customers and to achieve global ‘customer satisfaction.’ The Segment engages in operating community-rooted supermarkets and discount stores working to enhance lineups of everyday necessities focused on foodstuff as well as various services. United Super Markets Holdings Inc., Maxvalu Operating revenue (billion yen) Nishinihon Co., Ltd., Maxvalu Tohoku Co., Ltd., Maxvalu Tokai Co., Ltd., Maxvalu Chubu Co., Ltd., Maxvalu Hokkaido Co., Ltd., Maxvalu Kyushu Co., Ltd., ◎Inageya Co., Ltd., ◎Belc CO., LTD., A·Colle Co., LTD., AEON BIG CO., LTD., AEON MARKET CO., FY 2010 51,146 LTD., KASUMI CO., LTD., KOHYO CO., LTD., SANYO MARUNAKA CO., LTD., The Daiei, Inc., BIG-A CO., LTD., BIG-A KANSAI JAPAN CO.,LTD., MAXVALU KANTO CO., LTD., FY 2011 52,233 MAXVALU NAGANO CO., LTD., MAXVALU HOKURIKU CO., LTD., MAXVALU MINAMI TOHOKU CO., LTD., The Maruetsu, Inc., marunaka CO.,LTD., Red Cabbage Co., Ltd., ◎ichimaru Co., Ltd. FY 2012 56,853 FY 2013 63,951 Small Size Store Business The Segment engages in developing FY 2014 70,785 and operating small-sized supermarkets and specialty stores offering packed deli food mainly in Operating revenue (%) by Segment* urban areas in Japan, in addition to the convenience store business in Japan Service･Specialty GMS Business and Asian countries. Store Business SM･DS･Small-Sized MINISTOP CO., LTD., ORIGIN TOSHU CO., LTD., My Basket CO., LTD ASEAN Business Operating Store Business Revenue Drugstore & Pharmacy Business China Business by Segment Financial Services Business The Segment engages in operating (FY2014) drugstores and dispensing pharmacies Other Business Shopping Center Development Business to help local residents maintain their own health. In addition to widening * Based on simple combined figures before consolidated adjustment products lineups from medical products, daily necessities to health foods, it is working to expand its services including dispensing for Ordinary income (billion yen) home care patients. CFS Corporation, WELCIA HOLDINGS CO., LTD., ◎Medical Ikkou Co., Ltd., FY 2010 1,723 ◇TSURUHA HOLDINGS Inc., ◇KUSURI NO AOKI CO., LTD., WELCIA YAKKYOKU Co., Ltd., SHIMIZU YAKUHIN CO., LTD., TAKIYA Co., Ltd., ◎Welpark Co., Ltd., FY 2011 2,122 ◎ZAG ZAG Co., Ltd. * The above companies constitute Hapycom, an alliance of drugstores and dispensing pharmacies. FY 2012 2,125 FY 2013 1,768 FY 2014 1,525 3 Aeon Environmental and Social Report 2015 Financial Services Business Digital Business The Segment engages in offering The Segment engages in driving integrated financial services that further growth of e-commerce combine credit, banking, insurance including Net Super, while promoting services, and e-money WAON cards. In Aeon’s unique strategy of omniAsian countries, it mainly operates the channel that integrates experiences, credit card business. products and the Internet. AEON Financial Service Co., Ltd., AEON CREDIT SERVICE (ASIA) CO., LTD., AEON AEON Direct Co., Ltd., AEON Link Co., Ltd. THANA SINSAP (THAILAND) PLC., AEON CREDIT SERVICE (M) BERHAD, ◎AEON REIT Investment Corporation, AEON BANK, LTD., AEON CREDIT SERVICE CO., LTD., AEON HOUSING LOAN SERVICE CO., LTD., AEON Product Finance Co., Ltd., AEON INSURANCE SERVICE CO., LTD., AEON Reit Management Co., Ltd., FeliCa Pocket International Business Marketing Inc. The Segment engages in operating general merchandise stores, Shopping Center Development Business supermarkets, discount stores and The Segment engages in developing other businesses in China and ASEAN and operating community-friendly countries. The stores, products and shopping malls in Japan and Asian services are tailored to the life style of countries. In cooperation with other the respective countries. segments, it is working to enhance its [China] services and facilities in accordance AEON (CHINA) CO., LTD., AEON Stores (Hong Kong) Co., Limited., AEON EAST CHINA with the changing trends in society. (SUZHOU) CO., LTD., AEON (HUBEI) CO., LTD., AEON South China Co., Limited., BEIJING AEON CO., LTD., GUANGDONG AEON TEEM CO., LTD., QINGDAO AEON AEON Mall Co., Ltd., AEON TOWN Co., Ltd. DONGTAI CO., LTD. [ASEAN] Service & Specialty Store Business AEON ASIA SDN. BHD., AEON Co., (M) Bhd., AEON BIG (M) SDN. BHD., AEON INDEX LIVING SDN. BHD., AEON (CAMBODIA) Co., Ltd., AEON (Thailand) CO.,LTD., PT. AEON The Segment engages in providing INDONESIA services that make everyday life more [Vietnam] convenient and comfortable, as well as AEON VIETNAM Co., LTD, DONG HUNG INVESTMENT DEVELOPMENT operating an array of specialty stores CONSULTANCY JOINT STOCK COMPANY LIMITED, ◎FIRST VIETNAM INVESTMENT JOINT STOCK COMPANY tailored to diversifying customer needs. [Service Business] AEON DELIGHT CO., LTD., AEON Fantasy Co., Ltd., ZWEI CO., LTD., AEON Eaheart Co., Shared Function Companies: ◎YAMAYA CORPORATION, AEON Integrated LTD., AEON ENTERTAINMENT CO., LTD., AEON CULTURE CO., LTD., AEON COMPASS Business Service Co., Ltd., AEON AGRI CREATE Co., Ltd., AEON GLOBAL SCM CO., CO., LTD., AEON LIFE CO., LTD., KAJITAKU Co., Ltd., Reform Studio Co., Ltd. LTD., AEON GLOBAL MERCHANDISING CO., LTD., AEON TOPVALU CO., LTD., [Specialty Store Business] AEON FOOD SUPPLY Co., Ltd., AEON MARKETING CO., LTD., Cordon Vert CO., GFOOT CO., LTD., COX CO., LTD., ◎Taka:Q Co., Ltd., Abilities JUSCO Co., Ltd., AEON LTD., Research Institute For Quality Living Co., Ltd., Tasmania Feedlot Pty. Ltd., FOREST CO., LTD., AEON PET CO., LTD, AEON BODY Co., Ltd., Claire's Nippon Co., ◎AEON Demonstration Service Inc. Ltd., Cosmeme CO., LTD., Talbots Japan Co., Ltd., Branshes Co. Ltd, MIRAIYA SHOTEN CO., LTD., Mega Sports Co., Ltd., MEGA PETRO Co., Ltd., LAURA ASHLEY JAPAN CO., * Only major companies in each business segment are shown. LTD., AT Japan Co., Ltd., R.O.U CO., LTD. ◎ Equity-method Affiliates, ◇ Affiliated Companies As of April 1st, 2015 Aeon is contributing environmentally and socially through business operations, and also through promoting initiatives of the Aeon 1% Club Foundation and the Aeon Environmental Foundation. AEON 1% Club Foundation AEON Environmental Foundation The Aeon 1% Club Foundation was established in 1989 with The Aeon Environmental Foundation was founded in 1990 to the philosophy that Aeon is a company that makes proper use provide support to like-minded groups actively developing of the benefits received from customers for the future and for projects to protect the global environment. The Foundation has the community. Our activities are centered around the sound planted trees around the world and promoted a variety of joint upbringing of children who will lead the next generation, the environmental protection initiatives, such as the development of promotion of international friendship and goodwill, and sustainable human resources in the fields of the environment and conservation development of the local community. Major companies in the of biodiversity. Aeon Group contribute 1% of pre-tax profits. Aeon Environmental and Social Report 2015 4 Aeon Group Overview Global Expansion The relationships with our stakeholders we have cultivated in Japan, it has spread also to Asian countries. Aeon since its inception, “retail industry rooted in the local expansion of the Asian market and the growth opportunities community, local industry to continue to grow with the of the ion, retail become a unified group, financial, services, region” the original idea, we have to expand the business. business development in multi-format such as doing. Through Currently, including Japan, China, and we are developing a exchanges with various know-how and local people cultivated variety of businesses that support the day-to-day living in a in Japan, as well as contribute to the sustainable development total of 13 countries of the ASEAN countries. “Aeon Group of local communities, we are committed to respond to the Medium-term Management Plan (2014-2016)”, it captures the needs and social issues of the region unique. 3 headquarters structure Operating revenue by region (unit: ¥100 million) China Other AEON CO., LTD. 2,032 844 ASEAN 3,043 Headquarters Headquarters Headquarters Total Japan for Japan for China for ASEAN 70,785 64,866 Location: Chiba city, Location: Beijing, China Location: Kuala Chiba Prefecture Lumpur, Malaysia Aeon’s History in the ASEAN Region 2014 The First Store in Vietnam and Cambodia will be open (projected) 1985 1991 Jaya Jusco Dayabumi store, Aeon Hometown Forests 2012 Aeon’ s first overseas store, Program started Jaya Jusco Dayabume store 2010 Aeon ASEAN opened in Malasia 2010 Headquarters (now AEON Co., (M) Bhd.) Aeon Unicef opened in Malacca 2000 Safe Water to be launched Campaign started 2001 1990 School Construction Support Project in Asia started in Cambodia 2002Tree-planting activities carried out in ASEAN countries (AEON Environmental Foundation) Tree Planting Efforts in Cambodia (2002, 2004-2005, 2010-2011) Tree Planting Efforts in Malaysia (2004, 2008, 2009) 1985 Tree Planting Efforts in Laos (2009-2011) 1980 The First Store in Thailand was opened Tree Planting Efforts in Vietnam (2010-2012) Tree Planting Efforts in Indonesia (2012-2014) 5 Aeon Environmental and Social Report 2015 The number of stores and offices, including consolidated subsidiaries and equity-method affiliates China ●GMS 45 ●Mall-type SC 15 South Korea ●SM 18 ●Financial Service 42 ●CVS 2,002 ●CVS 53 ●Service Business 80 ●Specialty Store 42 ●Other Business 5 ●Other Retail Store 30 Japan Thailand ●GMS 541 ●SM 75 ●SM 1,929 ●Financial Service 219 The Philippines Laos ●DS 357 ●Service Business 37 ●CVS 454 ●Financial Service 1 ●HC 121 ●Other Business 1 ●Financial Service 1 ●CVS 2,151 ●Service Business 2 India ●Specialty Store 3,890 ●Financial Service 3 ●Drugstore 3,347 Vietnam ●Other Retail Store 889 ●GMS 2 ●Mall-type SC 171 ●CVS 17 Myanmar ●NSC 155 ●Mall-type SC 2 ●Financial Service 1 ●Financial Service 359 ●Financial Service 4 ●Service Business 1,460 ●Service Business 4 ●Other Business 1 Indonesia Cambodia ●CVS 6 ●GMS 1 ●Financial Service 8 ●Mall-type SC 1 Malaysia ●Financial Service 6 ●GMS 29 ●Service Business 2 ●SM 8 ●DS 24 ●Mall-type SC 18 ●Financial Service 54 ●Service Business 55 Australia ●Other Business 1 ●Other Business 1 GMS(General Merchandise Store) 618 SM(Supermarket) 2,030 DS(Discount Store）381 HC(Home Center) 121 CVS(Convenience Store) 4,683 Specialty Store 3,932 Drugstore 3,347*1 Other Retail Store 919 Mall-type SC（Shopping Center) 207*2 NSC(Neighborhood-type Shopping Center) 155*3 Financial Service 698 Service Business 1,640 Other Business 9 Total 18,740 Stores/locations *1 Including affiliated companies *2 Including SCs operated under the name of AEON Mall as well as those with total leased area of over 20,000m2 (End of FY 2014) *3 NSCs operated under the name of AEON TOWN Aeon Environmental and Social Report 2015 6 AEON Group CSR Since 1960 Basing Actions on our Company mission statement of History Supporting the Local Community through Commerce The Origin of Aeon’s CSR Activities Engaging in Responsible Initiatives while 1989-2001 Building a CSR Promotion Framework and Launching New Initiatives Expanding our Business Starting with Trees—Embarking on Many Aeon’s predecessor company, JUSCO, Inc., came into being in 1970, as the result of a merger between three Activities Leading to Today's CSR Initiatives companies—Okadaya, Inc., Futagi, Inc., and Shiro, Inc. JUSCO In order to carry out corporate activities befitting of a expanded business with the mission statement at the time of retailer representing Japan as well as Asia, and to continue ‘Supporting the Local Community through Commerce.’ Since to be a retailer consistently delivering vital value in the that time, the Aeon Group has grown its business and form of richness, Aeon has proceeded to build a partnered with companies that share its aspirations for moving framework since the latter 1980s for engaging in CSR retail into more corporate, modern, and industrial forms. In the activities as an organization. 40 years since 1970, sales have increased from 500 million yen In 1989, the Aeon Group 1% Club (the present Aeon to 7 trillion yen, the number of stores has expanded from 70 to 1% Club Foundation) was established (see p.4) and in 18,740, and the number of employees has increased from 4000 1990 the JUSCO Earth-Friendly Committee was formed, to 440,000. along with the Aeon Group Environment Foundation, the While charting this course, Aeon has generated new present Aeon Environment Foundation (see p.4). strength for responding to changes in the times by bringing Building on this foundation, the Aeon Hometown together a work force with a diverse array of skills. In order to Forests Program was started in 1991, followed by the Bring continue providing safe and reassuring products, we have Your Own Shopping Bag Campaign and the Collecting constantly increased our emphasis on and recognition of Recyclable Resources at Stores Campaign. In 2000, we responsible initiatives along with business expansion. In received ISO 14001 certification for our environmental alliance with our business partners and many stakeholders, we management system. In this way, Aeon has embarked on have remained aware of the importance of increasing value, environmental conservation and many other activities such as the quality of products, and of the growing leading up to today's CSR initiatives. expectations from society for our role in providing employment and protecting the environment as the scale of 1989 Established the Aeon 1% Club Foundation 1990 Established the JUSCO Earth-Friendly Committee our business increases. Established the Aeon Environmental Foundation 1991 Initiated the Aeon Hometown Forests Program The Origin of Tree Planting Activities Started Clean & Green activities Carrying the Source of Wealth forward into the Future Commenced the “Bring Your Own Shopping Bag” Campaign on a trial basis as well as launched the experimental “Collecting In the 1960s, Takuya Okada, then president of JUSCO (present Recyclable Resources at Stores” Campaign. day Aeon) and currently Aeon Honorary Chairman and Advisor, 2000 Acquired the international standard ISO14001 certification for environmental management noticed that the Nandina Heavenly Bamboo flowers in the 2001 Started the Aeon Happy Yellow Receipt Campaign garden of his home had stopped blooming. He assumed that was a result of the earth’s changing environment. He also felt a sense of crisis, realizing that the pollution accompanying economic growth would create social problems and that the loss of nature’s richness would be connected with a loss of sources of wealth. The result was contemplation on how a retailer could improve the situation, and establishment of The Aeon Hometown Forests Program. By planting trees, the Company was able to work side by side with local customers, Operating deepen connections with local residents, and share a peaceful revenue sense of joy while recognizing the importance of nature. Mr. Group 245 employees Okada's idea was to incorporate implementation of the Aeon Number Basic Principles in tree planting activities. of trees planted 13 83 161 (unit: 10,000) 1991 1993 1995 1997 * Combined total for the Aeon Hometown Forests Program and Aeon Environmental Foundation 7 Aeon Environmental and Social Report 2015 2002-2008 Expanding Activities from a Global Perspective 2008-2010 Promoting More Group-wide and Planned Activities Launching Initiatives Incorporating Formulating Aeon Group Principles the 10 Principles of the United Nations Concerning Biodiversity and the Global Compact Prevention of Global Warming With a view to reinforcing its global perspective on CSR, In 2008, we announced the Aeon Manifesto on the Aeon in 2004 became Japan’s first retailer to sign the Prevention of Global Warming, making us the first United Nations Global Compact. Based on the 10 Japanese retailer to set specific targets for CO2 emission principles outlined in the United Nations Global Compact, reduction. Through initiatives in our stores (developing Aeon formulated its “Aeon Supplier Code of Conduct” Eco Stores, etc.), in our products (conserving resources (CoC) (see p.75), and acquired SA8000 certification (see p. used in packaging materials and changing transportation 77), an international standard related to human rights and methods), and with our customers (planting trees at Aeon labor conditions. Building on these activities, Aeon and stores), we were able to achieve the fiscal 2012 reduction three labor organizations, including the international labor target of a 30% (1.85 million tons-CO2) cut, in comparison body UNI Global Union, signed the Global Framework with fiscal 2006 levels, one year early in fiscal 2011. At Agreement on labor practices, human rights, and the present, we are moving forward not only with environment in 2014. environmental conservation initiatives, but have also Since 2008, Aeon has added the Aeon Eco Project (see p.39), as part of our effort participated in the Supply Chain for stores to be emergency lifeline centers. Sub-Committee of the Global Furthermore, we formulated the Aeon Biodiversity Compact Japan Network in order Principle in 2010, the year that COP10 (the 10th Meeting to promote CSR together with our of the Conference of the Parties to the Convention on supply chain partners. Dialog with Biological Diversity) was held in Japan. Aeon continues to member companies is ongoing. develop and sell biodiversity-responsive products with MSC (Marine Stewardship Council), ASC (Aquaculture 2003 Formulated the Aeon Supplier CoC (Code of Conduct) Stewardship Council), and FSC (Forest Stewardship 2004 Endorsed the United Nations Global Compact Council) certifications, and creates stores conscious of Acquired the international standard SA8000 certification for evaluating work environments protecting and rejuvenating ecosystems. 2008 Formulated the Aeon Manifesto on the Prevention of Global Warming 2010 Formulated the Aeon Biodiversity Principles 967 792 923 553 663 375 485 1999 2001 2003 2005 2007 2009 2010 Aeon Environmental and Social Report 2015 8 AEON Group CSR Foward 2020 Stepping Up Key Issue Initiatives Based on the Aeon Now and Future Sustainability Principle 2011-2013 Striving for Group Growth and Societal Development ‘4 Key Issues’ for Sustainable Management As the globalization of our business continues to make great and Aeon people involved with CSR activities. Along with strides and our impact on the environment and society rise to determining the 4 Key Issues for the Aeon Group, we set midnew levels, we are more actively promoting CSR initiatives and long-term key performance indicators (KPI) for each Key Group-wide. In March 2011, we formulated and announced the Issue, and continue to publicize our progress every year in our Aeon Sustainability Principle seeking to achieve sustainable Aeon Environmental and Social Report. management that satisfies both group growth and societal development. 2011 Developed the Aeon Sustainability Principle 2012 Started the Aeon ECO Project In formulating the Principle, we took into account 2014 Formulated the Aeon Sustainable Procurement Principles worldwide megatrends, the changing values of people, social Signed the Global Framework Agreement issues addressed in the UN Millennium Development Goals, Joined forces with the United Nations Industrial Development Organization (UNIDO) to extend CSR programs in Malaysia initiatives and guidelines regarding social responsibility, such as ISO 26000, as well as the basic content of our new Medium Term Management Plan. Deliberations took place by stakeholders inside and outside the company, such as our Dialogue with the Environment Advisory Board, Inside Directors, and others Environmental Advisory Board, inside and outside Directors, 1 Realization of a low-carbon society Aeon Sustainability Principle 2 Conservation of biodiversity Aeon aims to realize a sustainable society with stakeholders based on our basic principle of Issues of stakeholder interest “pursuing peace, respecting humanity and ● ISO26000 contributing to local communities, always with the ● Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) customer’s point of view at its core.” Guidelines With “realization of a low-carbon society,” ● United Nations Global Compact “conservation of biodiversity,” “better use of ● Japan Ministry of the Environment (Environmental Reporting Guidelines) resources” and “addressing social issues” as core ● Customer inquiries and feedback to principles, we will think globally and advance 3 4 all Aeon companies activities locally. Issues important to Aeon’s growth Better use Addressing of resources social issues ● Aeon Basic Principles ● Medium term management plan Dialogue with internal project teams 10 million trees 2013 9 Aeon Environmental and Social Report 2015 2014-2020 Putting sustainability management into practice Launching Big Challenge —Our Targets for 2020 In order to further advance our sustainability management that need to be achieved in order to reach a target of Stage III while responding to the changes in the social environment by 2020. and the business environment, Aeon assessed the results of its In 2015, we held dialogues (see p.11) with our stakeholders current CSR activity level as Stage II in ----2014. This refers to (including external experts), discussing our progress on these a three-stage classification system where Stage I denotes activities and receiving advice on how to proceed going business management that controls risk in social, forward. environmental, and economic terms; Stage II denotes CSR Aeon will continue to promote dialogue with stakeholders activities as functioning to solve social issues and providing the inside and outside the Company. While not settling for the opportunity for growth; and Stage III denotes CSR activities and status quo, we will endeavor toward responsible corporate business activities being managed in a fully integrated fashion. conduct befitting Asia’s pre-eminent retailer. Aeon announced its Big Challenge comprising 10 categories 10 categories Big Challenge “Big Challenge” 1 Realization of a low-carbon society ● Promoting the Aeon Eco Project Targeted level Fully integrated management ● Implementing the Aeon Natural of achievement of CSR and business = CSV Refrigerants Declaration Stage ● Reducing CO2 in our products and III services Risk reinforcement Aeon's current level of achievement Stage generating strength 2 Conservation of biodiversity II Initiatives toward addressing social issues (generating ● Sustainable procurement business opportunities) ● Planting our next 10 million trees Stage Risk control 3 Better use of resources I (corporate ethics, compliance) ● Zero waste 7 trillion yen in revenue 4 Addressing social issues 440,000 employees ● Proposing ideas for healthy lifestyles ● Building a social brand ● Expanding employment of non-Japanese employees ● Raising our female manager ratio Aeon Environmental and Social Report 2015 10 Feature : 1 Dialogue with Stakeholders Encouraging Aeon to become a smarter company through contributions to the sustainable growth of local communities PartⅠ Aeon’s CSR Activities are integrated with corporate management. Pursuing “peace” through CSR Sueyoshi: Incorporating the key words “peace,” “people,” and Kanamaru: “community” into a basic policy is very Aeon-like. I strongly At Aeon, we have promoted CSR activities under a wide commend this because “peace,” in particular, is a word variety of themes based on the Aeon Basic Principles ever that we really don’t hear very often in business. This since environmental preservation and international people demonstrates Aeon’s strong commitment to sustainability to people exchange programs were initiated with the because without peace there would be no retail. launch of the Aeon 1% Club established in 1989 (see p.4). Edahiro: In 2011, our business activities expanded globally to China I felt the same way. Yet, at the same time, I also felt it Aeon and ASEAN, which meant that the impacts the Aeon Group should make its awareness of global and society issues, has on the environment and society increased markedly as which form the basis for the four pillars, more visible to all. well. For this reason, the Aeon Sustainability Principle was That is, what are today and tomorrow’s issues of a globalized drawn up based on international initiatives and guidelines society and how is Aeon involved with these? What will it on CSR, stakeholder opinions, as well as the business do to address them? I know the four pillars were decided on characteristics and growth strategy of the Aeon Group. This after various forms of dialogue with stakeholders, but I feel, basic policy set forth the four key pillars of “realization of a as a multinational corporation, Aeon needs to share with us low-carbon society,” “conservation of biodiversity,” “better why it selected these four pillars. By talking about the future use of resources,” and “addressing social issues.” KPI have of society and the environment, Aeon will be able to gain been set for each individual initiative so that CSR activities the understanding of more stakeholders, and its principle of Junko Edahiro Minako Oishi Takejiro Sueyoshi Koichi Yamanashi Haruko Kanamaru Chief Executive, Japan for Director, NIPPON ASSOCIATION Outside director, AEON CO., LTD. Executive Officer for Business General Manager, Corporate Sustainability (JFS) OF CONSUMER SPECIALISTS Nominating Committee Chairman, Planning Citizenship Dept. Founder and President, e's Inc. Chairman, Environment Committee Compensation Committee AEON CO., LTD. AEON CO., LTD. Special Advisor, UNEP Finance Initiative 11 Aeon Environmental and Social Report 2015 “pursuing peace” will come alive. Oishi: I’m viewing company initiatives from the perspective of consumers, and I feel that the retail industry plays the largest role in educating consumers as to why CSR activities are important and why they are being carried out. Consumers shop at stores on a daily basis. If Aeon can convey social issues and its initiatives simply and concisely, so as to help consumers select certain products, it can change consumption patterns and change lifestyles. This is the kind of huge potential the retail industry has. Sueyoshi: Every day millions of consumers are buying millions of things. When it come to food, for example, it is very important to inform consumers about today’s problems facing the earth, which provides us with sustenance through nature. At the same time, such efforts should also be important for Aeon’s approach to business sustainability (see p.10). This includes actions for which efforts will be as a retailer. Earlier we heard how Aeon intends to integrate bolstered in the future and actions we have not been able CSR activities with corporate management. A story is a key to focus on, despite their importance. Of these, we selected in this instance, such as Aeon is carrying out these activities the Aeon Eco Project, sustainable procurement, the next because its own business model would not survive without 10 million trees, and zero waste as actions in which to a sustainable society. concentrate our efforts. Yamanashi: Yamanashi: Thank you for pointing that out. Decisions are made based I believe that Aeon’s CSR activities, having passed through on various discussions and debate that take place within the phase of individual initiatives for each issue following Aeon. When we share things with people outside the the Aeon Basic Principles and Aeon Sustainability Principle, company, we tend to say things like “We will do this.” or “We are currently in the phase where solutions to environmental did that.” I think we get a little weak in the knees if someone and social issues are beginning to be incorporated into core questions whether our activities really incorporate holistic business processes or the phase where certain initiatives mediumto long-term perspectives on environmental are beginning to be utilized as a core of a differentiation and social issues. We’ll reflect this in our future information strategy. To further accelerate this trend, Aeon has decided sharing. to tackle the challenge of integrating CSR activities with corporate management as it heads toward 2020. –Having talking about awareness of the issues somewhat, can you now introduce the Big Challenge 2020 campaign –Can everyone share their views about approaches to that was newly launched in 2014? and initiatives within these four main fields? PartⅡ Big Challenge 2020 PartⅢ Aeon Eco Project Identifying important initiatives for growth Stores that save energy, generate electricity, strategy execution and have disaster-prevention facilities Kanamaru: Kanamaru: Aeon is aiming to become Asia’s pre-eminent retailer. Given rising demand recently for conserving electricity Toward that end, we are implementing the Medium-term and energy and the experience of the Great East Japan Management Plan, which focuses on the ‘4 Shifts (see p. Earthquake, the Aeon Eco Project (see p.39) seeks to reduce 2)’ strategy in response to megatrends in global markets energy usage and generate renewable energy, for the and revamping our TOPVALU brand with product-oriented betterment of the environment, while also protecting the reforms. In March 2014, we discussed a variety of topics, community during emergencies with disaster-prevention including the four pillars, with emphasis given to the future, facilities. In other words, it seeks to provide lifelines for from the standpoint of what responsibilities Aeon should living. fulfill in the implementation of its growth strategy and how Sueyoshi: could Aeon contribute to solving social issues through its Conserving energy and generating energy are actions businesses. The results found 10 actions that were included that the entire world should be taking, not only Aeon. The in KPI up to 2020 and a plan known as “Big Challenge 2020” unique aspect of Aeon’s efforts is its ability to use its stores Aeon Environmental and Social Report 2015 12 Feature : 1 Dialogue with Stakeholders as disaster-prevention facilities. meeting on the revised Freon Act, where I heard that little Edahiro: progress has been made in introducing this equipment I believe it’s a great, Aeon-like initiative, but I feel having because the cost is too high. This is why I would like Aeon the role of disaster-prevention facilities included within the to take the lead and show others it’s possible. realm of “eco” seems a bit out of place. Kanamaru: Kanamaru: Thank you. We announced the Aeon Natural Refrigerants We were also concerned about how this would fit, so we Declaration (see p.42) in November 2011 that states we set up the framework called Smart Aeon to introduce our will use natural refrigerants in every new stores to open efforts. from fiscal 2015 onward and steadily changeover to natural Edahiro: refrigerants at our existing stores. Currently, there are very I have a proposal. I’ve recently spoken a lot about resilience few manufacturers that offer this equipment, which has as an initiative to defeat global warming and mitigate contributed to the problem of high costs, but the Ministry natural disasters. Aeon should organize activities around of the Environment has a subsidy program in place that we this key word as it develops the ability to flexibly overcome will utilize. any situation in each community. Edahiro: Sueyoshi: I’d like Aeon to help lobby other manufacturers to begin Disaster-prevention facilities originated from the Great East using this technology. Japan Earthquake when Aeon stores were made available to the public as evacuation shelters, a gesture much PartⅣ Sustainable Procurement appreciated by local communities. From my perspective Formulating policy based on both business as an outside director, the Aeon Eco Project is a condition and the environment for being competitive. As Aeon competes with other stores in each community, what kind of competitive advantages –Next, let’s look at the theme of sustainable procurement. can Aeon leverage? Traditionally, this has taken the form In 2014, Aeon announced the Aeon Sustainable of prices, taste, and design, but now Aeon is marketing its Procurement Principles and Aeon Sustainable Seafood value in terms of the environment and disaster mitigation. Procurement Policy. Aeon will truly achieve its goal of CSR activities integrated with corporate management, when this value is recognized Kanamaru: by consumers and translates into improved business A little earlier Mr. Sueyoshi pointed out that the loss of performance. nature’s bounty is a serious issue for Aeon. This is the truth, Oishi: and using the example of seafood, today the stock of many I’d like to change the subject. Of the 10 actions, the one fish species is faced with the threat of depletion. As a result, about installing natural refrigerant-based refrigerators and we drew up the Aeon Sustainable Seafood Procurement freezers caught my attention. The other day, I attended a Policy in order to preserve the biodiversity of seafood while fulfilling our responsibility to provide a stable supply. In 2006, we began carrying MSC-certified (see p.50) seafood products with Marine Eco-Label seal of approval. Today, our lineup includes 23 products across 13 species, which is the largest in Japan. Sueyoshi: Many people consider biodiversity to be the act of protecting living things or endangered species. Although this is not incorrect, I feel that biodiversity needs to be viewed from a business perspective in the case of company initiatives. In this regard, I can commend initiatives that consider both business, such as stable supply, and the environment, such as biodiversity. Oishi: As has been shown with the issue of tuna and eel, it is important to share the reality we face in terms of marine resource depletion with consumers more thoroughly. I believe that many consumers don’t actually know about the reality behind MSC certification. Sueyoshi: In Europe and North America, high-end grocery stores carry 13 Aeon Environmental and Social Report 2015 a large number of eco-friendly product and consumers, too, know a lot about these issues, which has formed a consumer trend. In contrast, I feel that Japanese retailers tend to place low-priced items in highly visible places. Placing MSC-certified items in highly visible locations is something positive for both raising consumer awareness and increasing revenues over the medium to long term. Yamanashi: That certainly seems like the case. The retail industry is a world where you can tell whether you win or lose the competition in a matter of hours. This tends to focus your attention only on what’s in front of you, such as the extent. This is why we have begun developing products inclination to compete on prices. Therefore, I believe a great from this thinned wood and have worked with NPOs on a challenge for the retail industry to overcome is how we trial basis to develop successors for the forestry business (see can overcome the dilemma presented by the gap between p.52). As part of our use of forest resources, we are building eternal principles and day to day reality. stores for Ministop using FSC-certified materials sourced Edahiro: from responsibly managed forests, with more than 100 Given this dilemma, Aeon has been working on carrying stores built to date. certified products since back in 2006. This is something Sueyoshi: I can commend and I really hope that other retailers will I’d like more people to know about this initiative. What mimic Aeon’s approach. At the same time, I want to know if you made it possible for customers to see the inside just how much the sales of structure of a store? certified seafood products Edahiro: contributes to reducing That would help to raise awareness and serve as resource depletion and environmental education. Incidentally, about how much the extent to which we CO2 does one tree absorb? I’d like to know just how positive rely on marine resources the effects of 10 million trees over 20 years can have on considered to face biodiversity. depletion. I believe Aeon Kanamaru: can gain further trust if it We ask a third-party to calculate this and regularly report issued a report detailing the results. Aeon’s trees are intended to help fulfill our basic its activities because of our principles through sharing the importance of nature and dependence on marine peace in society with the local community, instead of just resources and the impacts of certified products as well as reducing CO2. This is why we haven’t really emphasize the the achievements made to date. numbers overall. Kanamaru: Sueyoshi: Thank you. We will continue to expand the number of After becoming an outside director I found out that the certified products going forward and try our best to roots of Aeon’s tree planting efforts could be traced back to report on the impacts of these efforts. I feel that sharing the 1980s when honorary Chairman Okada was scared by information on dependence and impacts needs to be the prospect of losing the natural environment. utilized in other initiatives, too. Oishi: That was before it was widely known that the loss of PartⅤ The Next 10 Million Trees tropical rainforest was linked to global warming and natural Activities that demonstrate Aeon’s roots disasters. Sueyoshi: –Moving on, let’s examine the topic of the next 10 million This threat has continued for 20 years. It can easily be said trees. Since planting its 10 millionth tree in 2013, Aeon that this now forms a part of Aeon’s DNA. Therefore, if there has been bolstering its efforts to develop and utilize was a new meaning from our efforts for the next 10 million these resources. trees, it would not be for biodiversity or preventing global warming, but rather for our roots of sharing the importance Kanamaru: of nature with people in the community and creating Yes, there are many locations where the trees planted opportunities for people to come together through trees. around a store some 20 years ago when we began this Yamanashi: initiative have matured into a forest and in the cases of Sharing Aeon’s roots, including its basic principles, is afforested areas we have had to carry out thinning to some becoming even more important as the company expands Aeon Environmental and Social Report 2015 14 Feature : 1 Dialogue with Stakeholders globally. I, too, would like to use these efforts as a point of product return rules between manufacturer, distributor reference. and retailer and other issues are difficult to solve by one company alone. Some of our stores also work with the local PartⅥ Zero Waste food bank. Promoting initiatives across the supply chain PartⅦ Towards the Future –We also heard that Aeon will be stepping up its zero Stepping up initiatives as a key piece of social emission efforts in terms of the lifecycle. infrastructure in the local community Kanamaru: –In closing, what were your thoughts about today’s Aeon has continually worked to reduce the use of plastic discussions? Also, please share any recommendations bags from the standpoint of reducing fossil fuel usage, you may have for Aeon in the future. and we have actively utilized plant-derived containers and packaging, having gained considerate recognition. Yamanashi: Going forward, there are still many initiatives that need to The Smart Aeon concept with disaster-prevention facilities be strengthened from the standpoint of the total lifecycle. was recognized for its community contributions. Aeon Therefore, we will now carry out further efforts to reduce very much emphasizes what it can do for communities, as the amount of resources used and waste generated in each evidenced by its principles. I believe our existential value phase, from manufacturing and processing to distribution. can be defined in the degree to which we contribute As part of this, currently we are carrying out a recycling loop to people in the community together with suppliers in (see p.58) where food residue from Aeon stores is made into the community, local governments, NPOs, and NGOs by fertilizer. In turn, we will now step up efforts to utilize this providing products, information and venues. At this year’s fertilizer to cultivate agricultural produce and raise livestock. annual shareholders’ meeting, President Okada used the Oishi: key word “ecosystem” about future growth. This also means Aeon certainly is making progress with utilizing resources an economic ecosystem in the sense of business, but we more effectively and reducing waste through its reduction view ecosystem in a broader sense where we work closely of plastic bags and collection of recyclables. Of more with community stakeholders to grow together. Therefore, importance, I believe, is educating consumers about listening to all of you today, we further enhance our resource and waste issues, while continuing with these commitment to serve as a company closely rooted in the efforts. It would be helpful to show the significance for community. society and also show in an easy-to-understand way where Sueyoshi: this waste ends up. Smart Aeon is a word to describe Aeon’s next-generation Edahiro: of stores. After listening to today’s discussion, I felt this I, too, find Aeon’s zero waste challenge to be a great word also describes the Aeon Group’s nature. Stores serve initiative. Because this is such a great initiative, I would like to conserve energy, generate energy and provide disasterAeon to share its definition of waste, the extent to which its activities cover the supply chain, and what is the overall progress that has been made, which I touched upon earlier. Oishi: I would also like Aeon to be more consumercentric, such as providing clear information to distinguish the difference between the useby date and the best-before date. Although different from zero waste, how is Aeon addressing the issue of food waste? Sueyoshi: Every year Japan produces about 17 million tons of food waste. Of this, approximately 6 million tons is food that is still edible and could have been eaten. Kanamaru: We are involved in the Business Practice Working Team organized by the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries, since 15 Aeon Environmental and Social Report 2015 prevention facilities for the community, while products are into a time period of declining population where certain of highly quality and safety rooted in sustainability and the sectors will not be able to succeed business wise. Therefore, lifestyle of the community. Human resource development I thought it was rather compelling to hear the words and governance provide something else. In this manner, “emphasize the community.” Of course, this is more difficult Aeon’s efforts can be categorized. to achieve than the words indicate. Nevertheless, I would Edahiro: like Aeon to give its best for the community because it plays I agree with the view that Aeon overall is getting smarter. such a large role as a form of social infrastructure. Earlier I spoke about resilience and the power to overcome Yamanashi: challenges in a flexible manner. Resilience in terms of the Today we heard about the perspective of why we do tangible and intangible. As Mr. Yamanashi spoke about something and sharing the results, the perspective of connections with stakeholders, I would like Aeon to further providing information to consumers, and the perspective emphasize its relationships with people in the community. I that Aeon should get smarter and become a resilience hope Smart Aeon, with its tangible and intangible forms of center. Based on these views, I hope to help Aeon move resilience, can become a resilience center for communities closer to realizing its vision of ecosystem. Thank you very in the future. much for taking the time to join us today. Oishi: Japan as a whole, and especially its rural areas, is heading Response to Dialogue with Stakeholders Aeon is committed to becoming a smarter company in terms of understanding the consumer patterns and lifestyles of each local community and making full use of its global supply chain. Koichi Yamanashi Executive Officer for Business Planning AEON CO., LTD. The views shared by the experts here today on consumption and lifestyles, and its supply chain, in a Aeon’s CSR activities all were very meaningful for sustainable manner. On the other hand, stakeholder our examination of future CSR activities. During this trust cannot be gained through conventional dialogue, experts shared their expectations and approaches, such as company activities that ignore honest doubts about Aeon, and I believe these are the sustainability of energy and resources, uniform inextricably linked together. As it grows, Aeon will product lineups intended for mass consumption, have increasing effects on people, society and the and price competition. This indicates we are in a environment. As a retailer with close interaction time where the survival of companies is in peril. This with consumers in the themes of environmental awareness and threat can be found in Big Challenge preservation, biodiversity, waste, and community 2020, which seeks to link Aeon value enhancement revitalization and as a company with a global supply with stakeholder value enhancement. Aeon will chain, if Aeon can present issues to stakeholders in continue to work on CSR activities integrated with an easy-to-understand manner and show solutions its corporate management over the medium to long to these issues, Aeon will be able to change people’s term and with a global perspective. Materiality Identification Process Process 1 Process 2 Process 3 Process 4 Hold Identify issue Assign priority dialogue Verify validity Review ranking Aeon Environmental and Social Report 2015 16 Feature : 2 The Challenge of Aeon people Theme 1 Promoting Energy Conservation Aeon operates 18,740 stores and locations* in 13 countries around the world. Aeon, which is Japan’s largest retailing business, consumes a large volume of energy in day-to-day business activities. However, we maintain a variety of efforts aimed at energy conservation. * (End of FY2014) In the form of our Aeon Eco Project, Aeon set environmental Aeon Eco Project targets for fiscal 2020, and is carrying out various initiatives to Strategies for Reducing Energy Use achieve those targets. The Aeon Eco Project was formulated and published in September 2012 based on power saving measures Aeon stores consume a large volume of energy, mainly in implemented by various means in order to accommodate the air-conditioning and lighting as well as freezer and refrigeration rolling power outages and reduction in electricity consumption cabinets, For Aeon, which has a store network spanning Japan as due to the March 2011 Great East Japan Earthquake and the well as other countries in Asia, reducing CO2 emissions from stores subsequent accident at the Fukushima Daiichi Nuclear Power plays a key role in reducing emissions for the entire company. That Station. In addition to targets that aim to conserve energy and makes it all the more important for us to focus on reducing CO2 in save power, such as strategies for reducing energy use that our stores. Therefore, we are actively promoting measures such as promote smart use of energy to conserve it, and strategies for converting store lighting to LED and improving energy generating energy to produce renewable energy, primarily solar conservation management based on an energy conservation power generation, the project incorporates a protection strategy. checklist as we strive to reduce energy consumption. This aims to turn stores into disaster prevention facilities to function as lifelines in times of emergency. The Aeon Eco Project Aeon Eco Project 2 is not only about reducing energy use, but is also the project of Strategies for Generating Energy consideration about what stores can do in emergencies such as Aeon has set a target for the establishment of 200,000 kW* in disasters based on the experience of the Great East Japan electricity generating capacity by 2020, and we are installing solar Earthquake. panels on the roofs and wall spaces of our stores to generate electricity. In addition to leading to reductions in electricity usage, thanks to captive consumption, electricity from solar panels is also Aeon being sold back to power companies through the fixed wholesale purchase system. We are reinvesting profit from electricity sales to offset increased electricity rates, contribute to our BCP, invest in the environment, and invest in renewable energy. Project * 200 000 kW is equivalent to the ability to cover the annual power of approximately 45,000 households in the common household. Energy Usage Results and Targets Targets Results Reduction rate Reduction Generation Protection (GJ/m2) Strategy Strategy Strategy 2.8 23.2% reduction in comparison with FY 2010 50% reduction in 200,000 kW from 100 disaster-prevention 2.2 energy consumption renewable energy sources facilities across Japan 1.6 Transition to LED lighting Solar panel installation Private power generation 1.0 equipment installation 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 (FY) 17 Aeon Environmental and Social Report 2015 Voice All of Aeon Together Aiming to Achieve the Targets in the Aeon Eco Project. I was involved in the Aeon Eco Project from the planning stage, and, as worthwhile. promotion supervisor, I am now responsible for managing the progress of We have established numerical targets for FY2020 under each of the activities, planning and preparing initiatives, and other duties. reduction, generation, and protection strategies. While some of the In terms of initiatives to conserve power and save energy in stores, the strategies are behind plan at present, I hope that difficulty lies in the overemphasis in the retail industry on providing a we can pool together the knowledge that Aeon pleasant store environment for customers to do their shopping in and the has accumulated so far and the ideas of fact that the perspective of conserving power and saving energy employees to aim to achieve the targets as all of becomes secondary, and it is very hard to find a balance. However, faced Aeon together. with these difficulties, when my plans succeed, there is great happiness Morito Imbe when I do manage to promote energy conservation, particularly when I manage to reduce energy consumption significantly, and I also feel it is Manager, General Affairs Dept., AEON Retail Co., LTD. Smart Aeon Pursuing Energy Conservation in Stores Actively Promoting Generation of Renewable Promoting Human Resource Training for Energy Together with Reductions in CO2 Emissions Energy Conservation As an initiative to implement the Aeon Eco Project, we have been While Aeon is promoting energy conservation from the angle of promoting the development of Smart Aeon stores with low facilities through the development of Smart Aeon stores, we have environmental impacts. Under this initiative, which we launched in established the Energy Advisor Program, an in-house qualification 2012, in addition to building stores with lower environmental aimed at developing human resources to run the Aeon Eco impacts than in the past, we also formulated five criteria, such as Project. energy efficiency and disaster prevention measures, from the The Energy Advisors help assess the status of energy usage in perspective of civicand community-building efforts carried out in Aeon Retail stores and work to propose and promote ideas for cooperation with local regions. After the opening of our first Smart more efficient usage. As of February 28, 2015, a total of 450 Energy Aeon store, Aeon Mall Yahata Higashi, in March 2013, we opened Advisors had been certified. seven Smart Aeon stores as of February 2015. Aeon’s promotion of the Energy Advisor program as an integrated supermarket chain undertaken at approximately 340 Building for Tomorrow Together stores across Japan has been highly rated. Aeon was the only recipient of an Energy Conservation Grand Prize (Director-General Prize of Agency of Natural Resources and Energy) in the retail industry at the FY2014 Energy Conservation Grand Prize for excellent energy conservation equipment in the energy-saving practices category organized by The Energy Conservation Center, Japan (sponsored by the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry). Energy Advisor training Smart AEON store, which opened in FY 2014 Aeon Mall Nagoyatyaya Aeon Mall Kisarazu Aeon Mall Kyotokakegawa Energy Advisor training materials Aeon Environmental and Social Report 2015 18 Feature : 2 The Challenge of Aeon people Theme 2 Conserving Natural Resources An array of products lines stores each day. Aeon is striving for sustainable procurement so as not to deplete but to leave limited natural resources in fisheries, agriculture and forestry for future generations. Our natural resources face many threats today, from ecosystem Conserving Fisheries Resources destruction from overexploitation to poor agricultural harvests Increasing Handling of Certified Sustainable from abnormal weather caused by climate change. Whereas, with Fisheries and Aquaculture Products the supply chain now stretched across the entire world, Aeon must be conscious of human rights and working environments at Aeon actively works to procure sustainable seafood products in suppliers as well as work to prevent corruption, including bribery order to help protect limited marine resources and to hand down and extortion. to future generations our traditional culture surrounding food The products manufactured and sold by Aeon are made sources from the water and sea. possible by the bounty of nature and contain raw materials procured from producers and locations around the globe. We Aeon Sustainable Seafood Procurement Policy have been following a green procurement strategy for some time Carry out regular risk assessments from a resource depletion now where we prioritize the procurement of products that are prevention and biodiversity conservation perspective. Also, in environmentally friendly, but to achieve even more sustainable order to mitigate risks, review feasible countermeasures and procurement, we commenced efforts to formulate CSR strive to procure sustainable seafood. Procurement Guidelines in 2011. Through the work of a CSR Specific Measures Procurement Guidelines Committee comprised of managers from Provision of Certified Products Elimination of Illegal Trade related Aeon departments, and tasked with gathering CSR Establishment of Traceability Measures Regular Risk Assessments procurement-related information, we formulated and published, in February 2014, our Aeon Sustainable Procurement Principle. In addition, we also set in place an Aeon Sustainable Seafood Procurement Policy in order to further elevate our efforts toward procuring sustainable marine products. These initiatives were recognized as a joint business with Japan Committee for UNDB in March, 2015. In fiscal 2015, following the formulation of the Aeon Sustainable Seafood Procurement Policy, we also began creating a procurement policy for forestry resources, which we plan to set in place and publish during fiscal 2015. Since we began selling products with MSC (Marine Stewardship Council) certification in 2006, Aeon has been progressively increasing the number of products it handles. As of March 2015, we sold 23 items from 13 categories, Aeon Sustainable Procurement Principle which is the highest number in the Japanese retail industry. In addition, we began selling products with ASC certification (Aquaculture Stewardship Council) 1. Elimination of illegal trading, harvesting and fishing of natural for seafood produced through responsible aquaculture for the first time in Asia in 2014. As of March 2015, we handled seven items in two categories. resources. 2. Setting and following Aeon’s standard for conservation of biodiversity and prevention of natural resource depletion. 3. Minimizing use of non-renewable resources. 4. Establishing agricultural and fishery production locations and fishing method traceability. 5. Conservation and prevention of destruction of high-protective value forests. In fiscal 2015, we will begin initiatives such as selling 100% aquafarmed tuna that does not depend on natural tuna resources based on our plan formulated in fiscal 2014. 19 Aeon Environmental and Social Report 2015 Voice TOPVALU Gurinai supports customers’ organic lives. Through TOPVALU, an Aeon brand, we are working to provide three values under the Aeon Sustainability Principle: health of the earth, health of society, and health of the human beings. The TOPVALU Gurinai Organic Food Series are produced with reduced agricultural chemicals, chemical fertilizer and additives while paying attention to ecosystem integrity and sustainability. In order to help in the healthy daily lives of customers and future children, TOPVALU continues to support organic foods by providing a Conserving Forestry Resources wide variety of products at reasonable Utilizing FSC-certified Products and Materials prices. Aeon has been selling notebooks and other FSC-certified paper Merchandising Division products since 2008. In addition, MINISTOP Co., Ltd. opened a AEON TOPVALU CO., LTD. Michie Unigame MINISTOP store that used 100% FSC Japan certified materials in 2009, as the first FSC-certified convenience store in Japan. As of the end of Organic Products February 2014, 89 A total of 137 organic products, one of the largest MINISTOP stores are FSC number as private brand label products in Japan certified. (as of February 2015). The TOPVALU Gurinai Organic Food Series offers a wider variety of environment-friendly items certified both nationally and Notebook made from FSC-certified paper internationally as organic food. In order to reflect consumer interest in healthy food, safety and security, as well as to respond Tasmanian Beef to requests from customers for more organic products in our Bringing Safe and Reliable Beef Raised stores, we promote development and procurement of organic on a Directly Operated Ranch to the Dining Table products in Japan and from other countries utilizing the Japanese Agricultural Standards (JAS) certification for importers of organic In 1974, Aeon set up a directly operated ranch in Tasmania, agricultural/processed food products, a certification issued by the Australia, which is one of the regions blessed with the richest Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries (MAFF) of Japan. nature in the world. Because it is a directly managed ranch, Aeon pays special attention to the method of raising cattle and the quality of feed. The Black Angus breed is raised in a natural environment protected by strict quarantine with no transgenic feed or meat-and-bone meal nor with antibiotics or growth hormone. As for the safety of this method, Aeon underwent an audit by a third party and obtained SQF certification. Aeon sells not only the beef but also processed hamburgers and beef stews made from Tasmanian beef. TOPVALU Gurinai Organic Food Series Organic JAS logo Operators certified by certification organizations registered by the MAFF are able to attach the organic JAS logo to their products. The logo is attached to agricultural, processed, or livestock products, as well as livestock feed, produced with a method of organic farming that uses natural SQF certification power instead of pesticides or chemical fertilizers. Aeon Environmental and Social Report 2015 20 Feature : 2 The Challenge of Aeon people Theme 3 Co-Existing with the Community We would like our customers to be happy that Aeon has opened a store in their community. Based on that sentiment, we engage in store development that prioritizes the connection we have with our various stakeholders, which includes local shopping street tenants and local government agencies as well as our customers. When giant shopping malls such as Aeon’s open, they have a upon making a payment at a Peach member store builds up considerable impact on local shopping malls and retail stores. points. Additionally, holding a Peach-eligible card up to the Peach Much of that impact is considered to be negative in terms of the Station terminal installed at Aeon Mall Okayama earns shoppers local economy, to the point that our new presence in the store visit points in the form of 10 Peach. Accumulated points can neighborhood is occasionally called “the arrival of black ships” in be used to shop at Peach member stores, such as those in the reference to the Perry Expedition that opened Japan. However, shopping street in front of Okayama Station or the Hokancho we at Aeon firmly believe that there is a way for us to walk Shopping Arcade. alongside an existing community as a member rather than as a force that disrupts its economy and networks. Based on that Joint endeavors with local government belief, we engage in store development that prioritizes the Promoting the creation of products that connection we have with those communities. An example of incorporate customer feedback such a store is Aeon Mall Okayama, which we opened in December 2014. Having expanded the varied connections we In March 2014, Aeon entered a comprehensive cooperation have with the area surrounding the mall, we actively endeavor to agreement with Okayama City. Through this agreement, Okayama invigorate the local economy, enhance shopping convenience, and Aeon will work together to relay information regarding the support social activities, promote culture and conduct other municipal government and tourism, further culture and the arts, like-minded activities in that area. promote local production for local consumption as well as sales of Okayama-produced goods with the use of the Aeon Group’s Joint endeavors with local shopping streets domestic and overseas networks, and conduct other endeavors. As Affiliation with Okayama locality with the first of these endeavors, we issued a Local WAON card called shared community point service called “Peach” “Momotaro’s Town of Okayama WAON.” When that card is used at Aeon Group locations and other member stores across Japan to At the same time we opened Aeon Mall Okayama, we make a payment, Aeon donates part of commenced a shared community point service called “Peach.” that payment to Okayama City to be put Under this service, which is intended to give some of the money to use towards human resource and spent in the community back to that community, using a urban development and childrearing Peach-eligible card such as Local WAON cards issued by Aeon support in the city. Voice Aiming to Improve Convenience not just in the Shopping Center, but in the Whole Area. Aeon Mall Okayama is one of Aeon’s urban shopping malls, which are still people, including the establishment of a health checkup area in few in number. Therefore, we are promoting initiatives to increase collaboration with Okayama City Public Health convenience for customers and provide support for social activities not Center that can offer health consultations, and only inside the mall but also in the surrounding shopping streets and blood pressure and body fat measurements on nearby stores. One of these initiatives is the introduction of WAON. We are the monthly G.G thanks day. helping to improve convenience for customers in the whole area, including the introduction of WAON at 40 stores and Aeon Credit by 15 Yokoyama Akihiko stores in nearby shopping centers and street level stores. In addition, we Chushikoku Regional Company Regional are discussing the use of WAON for payment of fares on local community Strategy Team, AEON Retail Co., LTD. buses. We are also helping to raise awareness about health among local 21 Aeon Environmental and Social Report 2015 Joint endeavors with local enterprises With local government Hosting numerous popular brand stores in Implementation of joint disaster drill before Okayama Prefecture store open At Aeon Mall Okayama, many leading enterprises developing their In November 2014, prior to the opening of next December, we business across Okayama Prefecture have opened their popular conducted a large-scale disaster drill jointly in Okayama City Fire establishments. Including apparel, Bureau and Okayama central police station and the ion mall F&B, food, miscellaneous good, employees. Under the assumption that the fire in the store by a service and other brands, these major earthquake has occurred, and gave a confirmation of such stores total 65 in number. In this routes and procedures of evacuation. manner, Aeon works together with local enterprises to invigorate the community. OKAPITAL Fusion with local culture Serving as centers of full-fledged culture creation and transmission Aeon will assume the role of creating and transmitting local culture and art through endeavors such as its establishment of the “Haremachi Tokku 365,” where visitors can experience the art of manufacturing in Okayama hands-on, and “Haremachi Gallery 7,” where works by Okayama-affiliated artists are on display. We have also established the “Okayama Mirai Hall,” a multi-purpose facility equipped with the latest sound equipment that accommodates Support for locally-based social activity groups up to 600 people in its movable seats. In addition to being suitable Serving as a bridge between organizations that for various purposes, such as for holding concerts or exhibitions, need support and customers who wish to provide it the hall is used to transmit culture and the arts from Okayama and On the 11th of every month, which is Aeon Day, we conduct the the rest of Japan through means such as live broadcast on the “Aeon Happy Yellow Receipt Campaign.” Under this campaign, we OHK (Okayama Broadcasting) network. donate goods valued at one percent of the total indicated on yellow receipts placed in a dedicated box by customers to the organization designated on that box. Okayama Mirai Hall Haremachi Gallery Aeon Happy Yellow Receipt Campaign Haremachi Tokku 365 Aeon Environmental and Social Report 2015 22 Feature : 2 The Challenge of Aeon people Theme 4 Safe and Reliable TOPVALU Aeon’s TOPVALU private brand, launched 40 years ago, is a reflection of our “Customer-First” corporate philosophy. We will continue to deliver products with confidence, prioritizing Safe and Reliable for customers. TOPVALU, Aeon’s private brand launched in 1974 as a reflection Quality Management of TOPVALU Brand Products of our ‘Customer-First’ corporate philosophy, has grown to Pursuing Reliable Quality from Diverse become Japan’s largest private brand, representing around Perspectives 6000 daily necessities and annual sales of 7.8 trillion yen. Aeon has thoroughly ensured The Five TOPVALU Commitments for all Based on the concept of improving our customers’ daily life, Aeon products as well as focusing efforts on building a sustainable plans, manufactures and sells TOPVALU brand products itself. In supply chain that includes strengthening safety and quality pursuit of high standards not only in manufacturing process management systems, improving working conditions at plants, management, but also in quality management, the Research and working on environmental countermeasures, in partnership Institute for Quality Living Co., Ltd., an independent inspection with our many suppliers in Japan and overseas. Aeon will organization, conducts approximately 25,000 voluntary inspections continue its quest to overcome the “cheap and nasty” image of annually (which include private brand products to keep on providing better products 11,272 radioactive substance more cheaply in a stable manner. inspections). The latest measuring instruments and TOPVALU Brand System professional staff test and analyze safety and functionality. Aeon also discloses production-related information to customers, increasing transparency. Raw materials inspection TOPVALU pursues customer TOPVALU Best Price realizes the best satisfaction and enriches the quality of prices in each trading area with lives product quality that exceeds customer expectation The Process of TOPVALU Products to Customers Selection of Aeon Product Planning Manufactures that Meet and Design Aeon’s Standards Procurement sources, safety, Manufactured exclusively at TOPVALU Select enhances customers’ TOPVALU Gurinai ensures safety and additives and production plants that complete and comply daily lives by offering products of the security by delivering products that processes reviewed by with Aeon Supplier Code of highest quality are healthy and friendly to the development, quality control and Conduct audits, plant sanitation environment customer service staff surveys, etc. The Five TOPVALU Commitments Sales through Aeon Group Stores Distribution by Aeon 1. We shall reflect the voices of customers in our products. 2. We shall offer safe, reliable and environmentally friendly products. Regular product quality After being inspecting for 3. We shall present product information in an easily inspections are done before and whether they met quality 4. understandable way. after sales, and manufactures are standards, products are We shall offer products at affordable prices. audited through plant sanitation transported to each store under 5. We shall guarantee our customers’ satisfaction. surveys, etc. strict distribution controls 23 Aeon Environmental and Social Report 2015 Building a Sustainable Supply Chain Aeon Supplier Code of Conduct Requirements Performing Audits and Improvements in Partnership with Suppliers Based on Aeon 1. Child labor: Illegal child labor is prohibited Supplier CoC 2. Forced labor: Forced, prison and bonded labor are prohibited 3. Health and Safety: Provide safe, healthy workplaces In recent years, awareness of human rights, compliance, and the 4. Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining: Respect employee rights environment has risen worldwide. Against this background, 5. Discrimination: Discrimination on the basis of place of origin or corporations, including Aeon, have to make efforts to implement creed is prohibited corrective measures by properly understanding conditions at the 6. Disciplinary Practices: Cruel punishment of employees is prohibited source related to the environment, legal compliance, production 7. Working Hours: Comply with laws related to working hours site and workplace. At the same time, our customers are becoming 8. Wages and benefits: Comply with laws related to wages and more conscious of supply chain acceptability in their purchasing benefits habits and selection of products. 9. Management responsibility: Pledge compliance with the Aeon Supplier Code of Conduct Aeon formulated the Aeon Supplier CoC (Code of Conduct) in 10. Environment: Work to prevent environmental pollution and 2003 in order to insure appropriate business practice, working damage conditions, and fulfillment of social responsibilities among 11. Trade: Comply with local laws on commercial transactions TOPVALU supply chain partners. Suppliers are asked to comply 12. Certification, Audit, and Monitoring and Renewal: Accept certification, auditing and monitoring under the Aeon Supplier with 13 requirements, including conforming with national and Code of Conduct regional laws and regulations, respecting human rights, providing 13. Ban on Gifts: Gift-giving between Aeon and suppliers is proper working and wage conditions, safety, hygiene and health prohibited conditions in the workplace, etc., and based on these we audit and work together with suppliers to improve conditions and build a “sustainable supply chain.” Voice Procedure of ‘Aeon CoC’ Certification and Audit To requests from customers and society, we will respond through TOPVALU Supplier Briefing Quality assurance Dept., from the viewpoint of quality, safety, human rights and sustainability, has played a role in pouring Compliance Requirements Aeon Basic Principle in goods and services of the group. TOPVALU condensed evaluator brand, it may have just said General Rules Initial General Rules Implementation, Check on Establishment that is an AEON itself. Implementation once in two years of Good Management With respect to requests from Third-Party Audit Second-Party Audit First-Party Audit customers and society that Comprehensive ever-changing, in response how through Monitoring by Supplier External Audit by Aeon Group Management TOPVALU, how do tell are going, we are and External Audit Auditors Agency thinking every day, transferred to a realization. Quality Assurance Department, AEON CO., LTD Katsuki Kishi Aeon Environmental and Social Report 2015 24 Feature : 2 The Challenge of Aeon people Theme 5 Disseminating our Corporate Principles Aeon continues to expand its business activities in its pursuit of becoming Asia’s pre-eminent retailer. To foster a disciplined corporate culture that all Aeon people get behind, we work on sharing and deepening Aeon’s principles and values among our foreign employees as well as our Japanese ones. In 1986, three companies that mutually aspired to modernize PDCA Cycle the retail industry merged to become “JUSCO.” This stance of pushing forward with measures to do away with barriers and Plan Do uniting in order to perform a “merger of minds” has been Set policies and objectives, carried on at Aeon to this very day. Today, Aeon has grown into establish commitment of top Administer education and training management and implementation one of Asia’s leading retail corporations whose group environment, etc. employees number in excess of 440,000. However, at the same time this growth has been taking place, we have had to deal with an unsatisfactory degree of progress in the understanding Action Check and dissemination of the Aeon Basic Principles, which were Share Aeon Code of Conduct with established to serve as the basis for all of our actions, and the Revise inexpediencies and remedy use of Aeon Code of Conduct company and workplace issues Hotline and monitoring; verify values and DNA that Aeon has built up over time since its level of resonance founding. We therefore aggressively promote the creation of opportunities for disseminating those values and principles so Initiatives Plan for Fiscal 2015 that Aeon people may come together as a collective whole. Ask Group companies that have yet to implement the Aeon Administering training in Aeon Code of Conduct Japan Code of Conduct to follow the example of The Daiei, Inc., which implemented said Code in September 2015 Ensuring all Aeon people have a proper Establish framework with the Corporate Ethics Team from the understanding of the Aeon Basic Principles and China China Headquarters as its center and reinforce the operation of the Aeon Code of Conduct, and linking that to the that framework practice of correct action Erect organization and framework to handle promotion of ASEAN Aeon Code of Conduct at all Group companies in all countries In our efforts to promote and disseminate the Aeon Basic Principles of operation and the Aeon Code of Conduct, we apply a PDCA cycle and endeavor to administer continuous, yearly improvements. Education Passing down our principles to new employees and training are the means that best serve those promotion and Sharing our unchanging principle of dissemination efforts. We put together training content according to “Customer-First” among all new employees each level of our employee hierarchy, which straddles management executives, promotion leaders, general employees, and new At Aeon, we endeavor to facilitate the understanding and employees. Training content goes beyond generalities to include dissemination of the principles and values that we have cultivated case methods that incorporate actual consultations made to the over the 250 year-period since Aeon Code of Conduct Hotline and monitoring results. This ensures our founding by arranging for Aeon people give thought to essential problems and challenges, an opportunity for the Group and collectively discuss how they should act. CEO to have a direct dialogue with our new employees at a special gathering welcoming those new employees. Initiation ceremony (April 1, 2015) Executive training in Vietnam Executive training in Japan 25 Aeon Environmental and Social Report 2015 Voice Participants Thinking Really Hard Gives Great Sense of Satisfaction. Sharing Aeon Basic Principles using picture book In spring 2015, I was transferred to the corporate ethics team “Arigatou no Yakusoku” (“The Promise of Thank You”) with responsibility for drafting and implementing measures to To diffuse our principles among the promote and disseminate the Aeon Code of Conduct. There newly-entered domestic and overseas are also many opportunities to be a training instructor at employees of the Aeon Group different companies, and I get a great sense of satisfaction hearing the serious discussions of all the participants and Through this picture book, seeing them thinking hard how they themselves can take which talks about the action. In promoting and disseminating the Aeon Code of importance of having a sense Conduct, it is important to be certain to apply the PDCA cycle. of gratitude, we aim to elicit an Even if the PDCA cycle is applied, it is a fact that it does not actually lead to action. Therefore, the corporate ethics team intuitive understanding of the continuously scrutinizes each aspect of PDCA and revises essence of the Aeon Basic them individually after clarifying any issues. I hope to put Principles. efforts into introducing the Code of Conduct to new “Arigatou no Yakusoku” companies joining the Group and into establishing and (“The Promise of Thank You”) strengthening our system overseas amid the rapid expansion in the size of Aeon DNA University the Group inside and outside Japan. Lectures on Aeon’s principles and values given personally by Group CEO Haruki Hattori Since 2012, we have been Reader, corporate ethics team implementing the “Aeon DNA University” with lectures given by Group CEO Motoya Okada. The purpose of this initiative is to pass down the principles and Hoping to Contribute to Enhancing Aeon values that have been Brand Together with Fellow Employees. continuously carried on at Aeon My role is Hardline Manager at Aeon Vietnam’s Binh Duong since its founding up to now. Scene from lecture Canary store. In July 2015, I took part in Code of Conduct training, through the training, I gained a broader and deeper understanding of the Aeon Basic Principles and the Code of Established “Aeon History Museum” Conduct. At the same time, I recognized once again that the Opened museum to relay the 250-plus history Basic Principles and the Code of Conduct play an important of Aeon to the current generation role in Aeon’s continued development in the future. I am striving to gain the trust of customers, utilizing what I learned Since Sozaemon Okada, our very first president, commenced his in the training and putting “Customer-First” into practice in retail business in Yokkaichi, Mie Prefecture, Aeon has forged a long my day-to-day work from now on. I am also sharing Aeon’s principles and Code of Conduct with my team and colleagues history. We established a with the hope of contributing to enhancing the Aeon brand museum for the purpose of together with my fellow employees. relaying that history to subsequent generations. This facility continues to be widely visited by members of the Nguyen Thanh Trieu general public as well as by our Hardline Manager, Aeon Vietnam’s employees. Binh Duong Canary store Aeon History Museum Aeon Environmental and Social Report 2015 26 Key Issue 1 Realization of a Low-carbon Society Management Approach Recognition of Challenges Global warming, which is causing the temperature of oceans to rise and airborne temperatures around the world to increase, is having serious consequences on our environment, including ecosystem change, coastal erosion caused by rising water levels, and abnormal weather. The cause of global warming is greenhouse gases and among them carbon dioxide (CO2) accounts for a major share. Aeon operates 18,740 stores in 13 countries around the world and consumes a large amount of energy. For this reason, we are working through various activities with the realization of a low-carbon society with fewer CO2 emissions set as one of our key issues. Aeon’s Approach The largest source of CO2 emissions from Aeon’s business activities is store operations. Therefore, Aeon is devoting efforts to reducing its CO2 footprint by curbing energy usage through the use of more efficient air conditioners, lighting, and refrigerator/freezer cases. Currently, the entire Aeon Group is carrying out the Aeon Eco Project (established in September 2012) in order to reach its energy saving and energy generating targets set for fiscal 2020. • Energy saving strategy: Reduce energy usage 50% compared to fiscal 2010 by rolling out next-generation eco stores called Smart Aeon, establishing the Energy Advisor System, and striving to improve the ability of stores to manage their energy usage. • Energy generation strategy: Create renewable energy in the amount of 200,000kW of output using mainly photovoltaic systems by fiscal 2020 by installing photovoltaic systems onsite at stores. We are also working on the visualization of CO2 emission amounts and using joint shipping with other companies in an effort to lower our CO2 footprint during the distribution phase. Future Initiatives In July 2015, the Government of Japan finalized a goal to reduce domestic greenhouse gas emissions 26% compared to fiscal 2013 by the year 2030. To contribute to reaching this goal, Aeon will continue to engage in the Aeon Eco Project and will begin sharing its energy management expertise developed in Japan at its subsidiaries in China and ASEAN. Aeon Eco Project In the form of our Aeon Eco Project, Aeon set, in September 2012, environmental targets for Aeon fiscal 2020, and is carrying out various initiatives to achieve those targets. With current increasing needs for energy use efficiency and power conservation, and with the experience Project of the Great East Japan Earthquake, Aeon has added perspectives of reducing energy use and developing renewable energy to environmental protection and has additionally taken on a clear role as a lifeline center protecting the community in disasters and emergencies. Reduction Generation Protection Strategy Strategy Strategy Our Smart Aeon initiative is one concrete aspect of the Aeon Eco Project. As of the end of fiscal 2013, we have opened four new Smart Aeon stores (See p.43). 50% reduction in 200,000 kW from 100 disaster-prevention energy consumption renewable energy sources facilities across Japan FY 2014 Results Targets for FY 2020 Examples of Initiatives energy consumption Reduction P.41 50% reduction in energy Expected reductions of 22% Transition to LED lighting Strategy consumption (compared to 2010) Stores installed with solar panels 1,044 stores Generation 200,000 kW from renewable P.46 Electricity generation capacity 55,868kW Solar panel installation Strategy energy sources (total up to FY 2014) Protection Disaster-prevention 21 locations Make 100 Aeon stores across Private power generation P.84 Strategy across Japan (total up to FY 2014) Japan disaster-prevention facilities equipment installation 39 Aeon Environmental and Social Report 2015 Progress of KPI of FY 2014 Main KPI FY 2014 Results Category Subcategory Scope Covered Target Summary of Actions/Initiatives 1) E nergy-saving equipment Reduce Total 2 Total Annual CO2 Consolidated Group FY 2010: 0.097 t/m or less introduction Emissions Factor companies in Japan ▼ 0.078t/m2 • L ED of the store lighting CO2 Emission (CO2 Emissions / and overseas (Japan, FY 2014: 0.080 t/m2 or less (within, such as the rooftop Total Floor Area）* China and ASEAN) FY 2020: 0.048 t/m2 or less penthouse lighting) •A  ir conditioning related energy saving equipment Improve Energy Efficiency introduction (inverter, Ekoponpu, etc.) Total Energy Use Consolidated Group FY 2010: 2,623 GJ/m2 or less 2) T he energy saving due to Factor companies in Japan ▼ operational improvement 2.086GJ/m2 • E ducation by the energy [Reduction Strategy] FY 2014: 2,101 GJ/m2 or less Reduce CO2 Emissions in Stores (Amount of Heat / and overseas (Japan, Total Floor Area) * China and ASEAN) FY 2020: 1,311 GJ/m2 or less advisor training • E nergy-saving operation propulsion using energysaving checklist and operational procedures Measures for Ascertaining Prevent Leakage of Fluorocarbons and Replacement FY 2015: Start the Operation of AEON DELIGHT CO., LTD. proposes Amount and Consolidated Group management system compliant Establishment a freon a centralized management Preventing Leakage companies in Japan with the revised Fluorocarbons management system scheme of Fluorocarbons Recovery and Destruction Law Promote Use of Natural Refrigerants used in Refrigerated Display Cases Consolidated Number of 1) C  FC-free regular holding of companies in [Aeon Natural Refrigerants Declaration] Stores Installing Introduced to the four new implementation project Japan for General Refrigerated Plan for installation at new stores GMS stores and 13 stores of 2) A  ims to manufacturers Merchandising Display Cases ・FY 2014: 25 stores or more supermarket and small stores and study, CO2 refrigerant Store, Supermarket that use Natural (Total 28 stores) refrigerated case the and Small Size Store Refrigerants introduction of built-in Business  eduction of CO2 in the shop 1) R Reduce C02 Emissions in Products Promote Visualization in Logistics delivery •P  romotion of environmental vehicle introduction (large CO2 Emissions natural gas vehicles, electric per Case during 136.4g AEON GLOBAL SCM FY 2014: 3% reduction compared vehicles, hybrid vehicles, etc.) Shipment from (7.3% reduction compared with and Logistics CO., LTD. with FY 2013 •P  romotion of eco-driving Distribution Center FY 2013) 2) E xpansion of modal shift to Store • Implementation of rail transport Study Group (trucking ratio CO2 83% reduction possible) Generating renewable energy Generating Electricity Consolidated Power generation companies in capacity of Japan for General FY 2020: Generate 200,000kW of Installed solar panels 94 stores renewable energy 56,000kW [Generation Strategy] Merchandising Store electricity (total 1,044 stores) (purchased power and Supermarket only) Business * Quantitative figure indicating CO2 emissions per 1m2 of floor space at stores and energy use. It shows the efficiency of CO2 emissions and energy use. KPI targets indicate that despite large changes in the number of future stores, CO2 emissions and energy use efficiency will improve (emissions and use cut in half by 2020). Aeon Environmental and Social Report 2015 40 Key Issue 1 Realization of a Low-carbon Society Aeon Obtains ISO 50001 Energy Management Reducing CO2 in Stores Certification In July 2013, Aeon Co., Ltd. became the first retailer in Japan to obtain the ISO 50001 certification, an energy management Decreasing CO2 emissions / Enhancing Energy certification defined by the International Organization Efficiency for Standardization (ISO). ISO 50001 is an international [ Aeon Eco Project: Reduction Strategy ] standard specification that defines the requirements to be Aeon stores consume a large volume of energy*1, mainly in air met by business operators when they establish an energy conditioning and lighting as well as freezer and refrigeration management system. It is being adopted around the world, cabinets, For Aeon, which has a store network spanning Japan including in the U.S. and China. as well as other countries in Asia, reducing CO2 emissions from Aeon Co., Ltd. has established an energy management stores*2 plays a key role in reducing emissions for the entire system under which it works as an entire group of companies company. That makes it all the more important for us to focus to use energy more efficiently on reducing CO2 in our stores. with the goal of attaining the Continuing on from fiscal 2012 and fiscal 2013, we actively energy-saving targets laid out in switched stores to LED lighting, adopted and upgraded energythe Aeon Eco Project. The scope saving equipment, and tested rational energy management of Aeon’s ISO 50001 certification practices in fiscal 2014. For example, facility managers from is blanket energy management AEON Retail worked with store Energy Advisors to plan and activities covering the entire execute measures in an effort to improve the energy-efficient Aeon Group of companies. operations of stores that lacked energy consumption efficiency in terms of energy used per basic unit. Based on these efforts, Aeon’s electricity usage in fiscal 2014 was approximately 22% lower than in fiscal 2010. This improvement can mainly be ISO 50001 certificate attributed to the adoption of LED lighting. In fiscal 2015, we will work on reducing energy usage even more than in fiscal 2014 by introducing new energyFramework for Promoting our Energy Management System (EnMS) saving equipment and further improving energy-saving operations. Our efforts will focus on measures at stores with air AEON CO., LTD. Group Companies conditioning systems that use hot-and-chilled water generators Top Management in an effort to reach our targets set for fiscal 2020. *1 Looking at a breakdown of energy consumed on a heat conversion basis, around Internal Auditing Team 90% is accounted for by electricity and the remainder by city gas, LP gas and heavy oil. Energy Management Representative Energy Management Control Officer *2 All CO2 emitted from stores can be attributed to energy consumption. Specifically, around 10% comes from direct emissions through city gas, LP gas and combustion of heavy oil (Scope 1) and around 90% comes from indirect emissions through power Energy Management Secretariat Energy Management Secretariat consumption (Scope 2). The calculation of CO2 emissions from power consumption uses calculation standards and an emissions factor pursuant to the Act on Promotion Subcommittees on Energy Strategy Business offices and stores of Global Warming Countermeasures. FY 2014 Results and Target of KPI Energy suppliers Tenants Total Annual CO2 Emissions Factor Total Energy Use Factor Energy management subcontractors (CO2 Emissions / Total Floor Area) (Amount of Heat / Total Floor Area) 0.097t/m2 2.623GJ/m2 2010 0.11t/m2 2.07GJ/m2 2012 0.08t/m2 2.03GJ/m2 2013 Improving Energy Management Practices Aeon has created an in-house Energy Advisor Program aimed 2014 0.08ｔ/m 2 2.101ｔ/m 2 at leveraging our Aeon Eco Project to further develop human 0.078t/m2 2.086t/m2 resources in our retail stores. 2015 The Energy Advisors help assess the status of energy usage 2020 0.048ｔ/m2 1.311GJ/m2 in stores and work to propose and promote ideas for more efficient usage. As of February 28, 2015, a total of 450 Energy Advisors had been certified. Going forward, our plans aim for over 100 Advisors to be newly certified each year. In fiscal 2014, Aeon received the Energy Conservation Grand Prize (Director General Prize of Agency of Natural Resources and Energy) in the category of energy-saving practices at 41 Aeon Environmental and Social Report 2015 theFYEnergy Conservation 2014 Results Awards and Target of Organized KPI by The Energy FY 2014 Results and Target of KPI KPIの Conservation Center, Japan and sponsored by the年間ＣＯMinistry２排出量原単位 of Economy, （ＣＯ Trade排出量/延床面積原単位） ２ and Industry Measures for Ascertaining Replacement Amount and エコ Preventing Leakage of Fluorocarbons used in Refrigerated for its promotion of the Energy 0.097t/m Advisor2 Display Cases 2010 2011 program 基準年 as an integrated supermarket chain. 0.11t/m2 t&RVJQNFOUMFEHFSDSFBUFEBOEQSFQBSBUJPOMFBLBHFNBOBHFNFOU We 2012will continue to develop more certified SFDPSEHSPVQVOJöFETUBSU 2012 t-FBLBHFHSBTQPGöTDBMDBQUVSFPGUIFMFWFM Energy Advisors, enhance the capabilities of 2012 t$POEVDUFEPQJOJPOBTBSFøFDUJPOPG+BQBO$IBJO4UPSFT TTPDJBUJPO 0.08t/m2 current2013Energy Advisors, and work to expand 2013 t$PNQMFUFEUBMMZJOHUIFBNPVOUTPGøVPSPDBSCPOTSFQMBDFEJO': the program to Group companies, including  PSCFUUFSDBQUVSFSBUFPGBTDFSUBJOFEMFBLBHF 2013 those2014 outside of Japan. 0.08ｔ/m2以下 t1VUUPHFUIFSBXPSLJOHUFBNGPSøVPSPDBSCPOMFBLBHFNBOBHFNFOU 2014 t TBSFQSFTFOUBUJWFPGUIF+BQBO$IBJO4UPSFT TTPDJBUJPO WPJDFE 0.078t/m 2 PQJOJPOTJOUIF*OEVTUSJBM4USVDUVSF$PVODJMTXPSLJOHHSPVQPO 2015 2014 DPVOUFSNFBTVSFTGPSøVPSPDBSCPOTBOEBUUIF+PJOU$PVODJM.FFUJOH 2015 0.048ｔ/m2以下 Establishment a freon management system 2020 2015 2020 目標 Preventing Leakage of Fluorocarbons and Bring management system on line compliant with the Promoting Use of Natural Refrigerants 2020 revised Fluorocarbons Recovery and Destruction Law 年間エネルギー使用量原単位 (熱量／延床面積原単位) More and more freezing and refrigeration units started using non-ozone 2010 depleting alternatives to chlorofluorocarbons 2.623GJ/m 2 (CFCs) Number of Stores Installing Refrigerated Display Cases that 基準年 as refrigerant following the abolition of the production and use use Natural Refrigerants on a Trial Basis CFCs under2.07GJ/m 2 of ozone-depleting 2012 the Montreal Protocol adopted t5IFJOUSPEVDUJPOUPTUPSFT in 1987. However, these alternatives have extremely high t1SPNPUJPOPGHPPESFMBUJPOTXJUIDIBMMFOHFTEFMBZ 2.03GJ/m2 t5PQSPNPUFUIFTIBSJOHPG,OPXMFEHFUISPVHIUIF+BQBO$IBJO global 2013warming potential (GWP)*1 and the problem of leaking 2012 4UPSFT TTPDJBUJPO into the atmosphere, which prompted calls to switch to natural t*OTUBMMFEJOTUPSFT 2014 2.101ｔ/m2以下 refrigerants with low GWP. 2013 t4UBSUFEBOJOIPVTFQSPKFDUUFBNGPSQSPNPUJOHUIFBEPQUJPOPG OBUVSBMSFGSJHFSBOUT In 2009, Aeon became Japan’s first retailer 2.086t/m 2 to start t TBSFQSFTFOUBUJWFPGUIF+BQBO$IBJO4UPSFT TTPDJBUJPO WPJDFE PQJOJPOTJOUIF*OEVTUSJBM4USVDUVSF$PVODJMTXPSLJOHHSPVQPO introducing 2015 refrigerators and freezers that use a low-GWP 2014 DPVOUFSNFBTVSFTGPSøVPSPDBSCPOTBOEBUUIF+PJOU$PVODJM.FFUJOH t4PMWJOHJOTUBMMBUJPODPTUTBOEUFDIOJDBMDIBMMFOHFTXBTTUJMMCFIJOE natural refrigerant*2 (CO2). Following this, we announced the TDIFEVMF 2020 1.311GJ/m2 Aeon Natural Refrigerants Declaration in 2011 and are planning 2015 New stores and introduced to more than 25 stores to install natural refrigerant-based refrigerators and freezers in every new store to open from fiscal 2015 onward. Introduced to the four new GMS stores and 13 stores 2020 As of February 2015, we have installed natural of supermarket and small stores (Total 28 stores) refrigerantbased refrigerators and freezers at 28 stores, including our Aeon Mall Makuhari New City store, MaxValu supermarkets, and MINISTOP convenience stores. We are planning to switch to the natural refrigerant in existing 3,500 stores gradually in the future. Aeon faces certain issues ahead of the introduction of natural refrigerants, including the lack of manufacturers and high installation costs. We will do our utmost to overcome these issues and promote the industry-wide use of natural refrigerants by leveraging performance data accumulated to date to raise awareness going forward and build ties with companies within the same industry and other industries. *1 Global warming potential (GWP): a factor expressing a substance’s relative impact on global warming. If CO2’s value is standardized to 1, GWP values for alternative CFCs used in refrigerators and freezers may reach several thousands. *2 Natural refrigerants: substances known as natural refrigerants include ammonia and carbon hydride as well as CO2. Refrigerator showcase using natural refrigerant (CO2) installed at Aeon Mall Makuhari New City Store Aeon Environmental and Social Report 2015 42 Key Issue 1 Realization of a Low-carbon Society Development of Eco Stores Recharging Stations for Electric Vehicles [Smart Aeon development] Aeon first set up a high-speed recharging station for electric Working to build environmentally friendly stores, Aeon has vehicles at the Aeon Lake Town store located in Koshigaya defined Eco Stores as outlets that achieve at least 20% lower City, Saitama Prefecture in 2008 in order to respond to the CO2 emissions in comparison with conventional stores, and a increasing use of electric vehicles and plug-in hybrid vehicles. CASBEE ranking of A*1 or higher. Since the opening of our first Since then, we have set up recharging stations at most of our Eco Store, the Aeon Chikusa Shopping Center, in May 2005, 12 new shopping centers as well as certain existing stores based such stores had been opened by February 2013. on demand. In September 2012, we started working on further In fiscal 2014, we aggressively moved forward with the developments for Next-Generation (Smart Aeon) Eco Stores. In installation of recharging stations at existing stores, with the addition to building stores with lower environmental impacts grand total now standing at 246 stations at 105 stores as of than in the past, we also formulated five criteria, such as February 2015 (of these 96 were rapid recharge stations and energy efficiency and disaster prevention measures, from the 150 were ordinary recharge stations). Going forward, we are perspective of civicand community-building efforts carried continuing our proactive approach to installation. out in cooperation with local regions. We have positioned this as a key initiative for implementing the Aeon Eco Project. Stores installing recharging After the opening of our first Smart Aeon store, Aeon Mall stations for electric vehicles Yahata Higashi, in March 2013, by the end of fiscal 2014 we had Total number of stores opened seven Smart Aeon stores*2. (As of February, 2015) In fiscal 2015, plans calls for two new Smart Aeon stores— Aeon Mall Okinawa Rycom, and Aeon Mall Sijonawate—based 246 stations covering on our criteria formulated in fiscal 2013. *1 CASBEE: Environmental performance evaluation system architecture that was developed in 2001. It is used as an index to evaluate and display objectively 105 stores the performance whether you are conscious how the global environment and surrounding environment, that there is no waste in running costs, such as, or comfortable for the user. *2 Aeon Mall Yahata Higashi, Aeon Town Shin-Funabashi, Aeon Mall Osaka Dome City, Aeon Mall Makuhari New City, Aeon Mall Nagoya Chaya, Aeon Mall Kyoto Katsuragawa, and Aeon Mall Kisarazu Building f or Tomorrow Toge ther 16億 6,155万枚 レジ袋削減枚数 13億 922万枚 17億 3,890万枚 7億 6,714万枚 レジ袋辞退率 60.0% 61.5% TOPICS Aeon was honored for excellence in climate change information disclosure 4億 2,450 万枚 48.0% three years in a row 60.4% For three years in a row, Aeon has been honored for excellence in the Climate Disclosure Leadership 16.4%Index (CDLI) 2014 by international NGO CDP*. Furthermore, in the same year, Aeon was honored for the first time for excellence in the Climate Performance Leadership Index (CPLI) 2014. Aeon is the only company in the Japanese retail business sector to be honored in either index. * CDP: Abbreviation of the Carbon Disclosure Project.The single global system measuring, 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 managing, disclosing and sharing important urban and industrial environment related information. CDP’s worldwide survey covers 500 largest companies in Japan. 43 Aeon Environmental and Social Report 2015 Company. The number of containers transported by Aeon’s Reducing CO2 in Products and Logistics railway transportation has significantly increased to 36,692 annually (twelve-foot equivalent unit). These initiatives were recognized with the Logistics and Environmental Special Prize Increasing Visibility of Distribution Operations at the 16th Logistics and Environment Awards organized by One of Aeon’s KPI is “CO2 Emissions per Case during Shipment the Japan Association for Logistics and Transport. from Distribution Center to Store”. We are striving to reduce We will continue our eff orts to reduce CO2 emissions while emissions by better grasping the amount of CO2 used during actively promoting a cross-industrial modal shift. distribution through visualization. * Asahi Breweries, Ltd., Ajinomoto Co.,Inc., Ezaki Glico Co., Ltd., Kao Corporation, Sapporo Breweries Ltd., Nestle Japan Ltd., and the Procter&Gamble Company of Japan Ltd. (In In fiscal 2014, we introduced eco-friendly vehicles, such Japanese alphabetical order) as heavy duty natural gas vehicles and electric vehicles, and promoted eco-friendly driving habits, which helped to reduce CO2 emissions per case shipped from distribution center to store to 136.4g, marking a 7.3% reduction over fiscal 2013. Along with participating in environment related research and other gatherings held by government, logistics operators, natural gas companies, automobile makers, universities,, Aeon has also held its own environmental vehicle research meetings and rail transport research meetings, furthering our pursuit of adopting heavy duty natural gas vehicles and expanding our modal shift in transportation. In addition to continuing these initiatives, going forward we will implement initiatives from both fiscal and operational perspectives such as converting 100% of our fleet of trucks to environmentally friendly models, as well as conducting an eco-driving course* and enhancing the system for recognizing Informing Customers of CO2 Emission Reductions good, ecofriendly drivers. Aeon is committed to showing the carbon footprint (CFP) of a * Eco Drive: Driving techniques that enable drivers to reduce fuel consumption by product in order to make it easier to visualize the CO2 emissions starting the vehicle and moving forward gently and eliminating wasteful idling to ultimately reduce CO2 emissions. it generates through its lifecycle, from raw materials to processing, distribution, consumption, disposal and recycling. FY 2014 Results and Target of KPI This 2014to FYhelps increase Results andcustomers’ Target of KPI interest in the environment FY 20 and spur further corporate initiatives to reduce CO2 emissions CO2 Emissions per Case during Shipment from Distribution and Power generation perform capacity of renewable energy cost analyses. Tota Center to Store (CO2 E Aeon has participated in the CFP seminar hosted by the 4FUUJOHHPBMT 2012 Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry (METI) since 2008 and 2010 t&TUBCMJTIFEJODPMMBCPSBUJPOXJUIPVUTPVSDJOHQBSUOFST UIFWFIJDMF  L8 FOWJSPONFOU4UVEZ(SPVQ*OUSPEVDUJPOCFHJOOJOHPGUIF has2013been implementing related initiatives in collaboration with FYQFSJNFOUPGMBSHFOBUVSBMHBTWFIJDMFT METI. In 2009, we launched an internal project and so far have 2012 2012 t%PNFTUJDSBJMUSBOTQPSUIBOEMJOHTDBMFSFUBJMJOEVTUSZ/P calculated 2014 product CO2 56,000kW emissions for products. SFEVDUJPODPNQBSFEXJUI': 2013 2013 In fiscal 2013, we calculated the total CO2 emissions throughout 2015 the entire lifecycle of TOPVALU Gurinai green 2014 .29% 2014 3.0% reduction compared with FY 2013 peppers grown in Miyazaki Prefecture. 2020 In March 2014, we carried 200,000kWout Bio My Basket calculations. 7.3% reduction compared with FY 2013 2015 2015 2020 2020 15% reduction Promoting a Modal Shift Jointly with Companies from Different Sectors Aeon Global SCM Co., Ltd., which is responsible for the TOPVALU Gurinai Miyazaki pepper Aeon Group’s logistics operations, has organized the Aeon Railway Transportation Research Council to determine better approaches to railway transportation jointly with the Council member companies in order to reduce CO2 emissions. As such effort, Aeon Global SCM and seven member manufacturers* are providing a freight train service between Tokyo and Osaka with the cooperation of Japan Freight Railway Aeon Environmental and Social Report 2015 44 Key Issue 1 Realization of a Low-carbon Society Developing and Selling Products that Help Reduce Scope 3 Emissions CO2 Emissions Category Scope 3 Emissions Categories Emissions (t-CO2e) Aeon is working to develop and sell products that help reduce 1 Purchased products and services 2,872,268 CO2 emissions. 2 Capital goods 1,578,822 Our TOPVALU Gurinai Yukigura Fuel and energy related activities not potatoes from Toya, Hokkaido are 3 included in Scope 1 and Scope 2 284,761 one example. These potatoes use 4 Transport and shipments (upstream) 220,278 the cooling power of snow for 5 Waste from businesses 82,530 preservation after harvest, which 6 Business travel 7,027 reduces electricity usage and also 7 Employee commutes 48,232 helps reduce CO2 emissions. 8 Leased assets (upstream) ― TOPVALU Gurinai Yukigura 9 Investments 31,543 potatoes from Toya 10 Transport and shipments (downstream) ― 11 Processing of products sold ― Carbon Offset Initiatives Carbon offsetting refers to the process of purchasing credits 12 Use of products sold 18,998 generated by CO2 reduction activities at a separate location to 13 Disposal of products sold 47,539 offset part or the entire amount of greenhouse gas emissions 14 Leased assets (downstream) 842,502 that really cannot be reduced. 15 Franchise ― In fiscal 2014, Aeon Group companies implemented the carbon offsetting detailed below. We will continue these initiatives in fiscal 2015 as well. TOPICS •AEON CO., LTD. Verification of Greenhouse Gas Emissions by Third Party • Target products: Bio My Basket • Period: April 2014 February 2015 Aeon has obtained a third-party review • Quantity of emissions credits purchased: 700 tons-CO2 of the Scope 1 and Scope 2 greenhouse gases for AEON Retail, which is the largest Tabulating CO2 emissions across the entire supply producer of these emissions within the Aeon Group’s core retail business. chain We will continue to receive such In addition to managing greenhouse gas emissions they reviews in the future in order to enhance the reliability of our generate directly (Scope 1) and indirect emissions from the data and continue with our efforts to reduce greenhouse use of electricity (Scope 2), companies must now manage gas emissions. emissions across their entire supply chain (Scope 3). In 1. Scope of Verification response to this development, Aeon has been calculating* AEON requested Bureau Veritas to verify the accuracy of the Scope 3 CO2 emissions since fiscal 2012. following GHG information, to a limited level of assurance: In the future, we will further expand the precision of our •Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions: data, add more businesses for which we gather data, and use CO2 emissions from energy use through the operations of data analysis to pursue our reductions in CO2 emissions. 388 stores of AEON RETAIL CO., LTD. (AEON RETAIL) within * For calculations, we reference the Emissions Rate Index Database for Calculating GHG Japan Emissions, etc. in an Organization’s Supply Chain (Ver. 2.0). 2.Methodology ISO14064-3 （2006） : Obtained third-party verification in accordance with greenhouse gases-Part3: speciflication with guidance for the validation and verification of greenhouse gas assertions Verified greenhouse gas emissions Scope 1 Scope 1 96,799 t-CO2e 1,021,303 t-CO2e 45 Aeon Environmental and Social Report 2015 Aeon Environmental Foundation Generating Electricity at Stores Donating Solar Systems to Junior High Schools The Aeon Environmental Foundation is donating solar power Generating renewable energy systems to junior high schools with the aim of promoting [Aeon Eco Project: Generation Strategy] and spreading environmentally friendly renewable energy, The goal of building electricity generation capacity of 200,000 and providing students with the opportunity to utilize the kW* by 2020 is part of the Generation Strategy in Aeon Eco systems for environmental studies. Project. This activity started in fiscal 2009 as a five-year project to In fiscal 2014, we installed solar panels with electrical commemorate the 20th anniversary of the founding of the generation capacity totaling 22,621 kW in 47 of our stores, Foundation. As of the end of including supermarkets with flat roofs, new large-scale fiscal 2014, we have supermarkets, as well as convenience stores. This brings donated systems to our total of stores with installed units to 1,044, and our total 35 junior high schools, generation capacity to 55,868 kW. including 15 in Japan, In addition to leading to reductions in electricity usage, 10 in Malaysia, and 10 Tan Nhut Junior High School in thanks to captive consumption, electricity from solar panels is in Vietnam. Ho ChiMinh City, Vietnam also being sold back to power companies through the fixed wholesale purchase system. We are reinvesting profit from electricity sales to offset increased electricity rates, contribute to our BCP, invest in the environment, and invest in renewable Initiatives Undertaken by Group Companies energy. AEON Retail Co., Ltd. In fiscal 2015, we plan to add 3,146 kW of generation Home Ecology Diagnosis Initiative capacity to 65 stores. * 200 000 kW is equivalent to the The Ministry of the Environment is implementing an ability to cover the annual power of approximately 45,000 households initiative called Home Ecology Diagnosis in which in the common household. accredited professionals with wide reaching experience in global warming and energy-saving home electronics use specialized developed software to provide tailored advice for each household on more effective ways to reduce CO2 and reduce energy usage in order to reduce the greenhouse gas emissions of ordinary households. AEON Retail, which maintains energy-saving proposals for helping consumers reduce utility bills as an important company policy, completed its registration as a home FY 2014 Results and Target of KPI FYecology 2014 Results and Target of KPI diagnosis provider so that it can carry out this ution Power generation capacity of renewable energy policy. Total being After CO Annual certifiedFactor in July 2014, 2 Emissions AEON Retail 54Energy Total Use Factor employees (CO 2 Emissions /passed the Total Floor accreditation (Amount Area) exam held two of Heat months / Total Floor Area) 4FUUJOHHPBMT 2012 later in September. These 0.097t/m 2 54 individuals began carrying2 out 2.623GJ/m 2010 home ecology diagnoses in November 2014 and since then IFWFIJDMF  L8 F 2013 they have identified 2652 issues at events and stores. 0.11t/m 2.07GJ/m2 2012 In fiscal 2015, we will introduce a new program where  2014 56,000kW customers who take part 0.08t/m 2 in certain energy-saving reform 2.03GJ/m 2 2013 projects or purchase energy-saving equipment based on a home ecology diagnosis will be awarded WAON 2 2015 2014 0.08ｔ/m2 2.101ｔ/m 3 points a form of Aeon Eco Points as part of our efforts to 2020 200,000kW encourage even0.078t/m greater 2energy savings. We will continue 2.086t/m 2 3 to raise awareness and support employees in obtaining this 2015 certification in order to reach our goal of 100 home ecology 2020 diagnosis accredited 0.048ｔ /m2 employees serving at 501.311GJ/m stores. 2 Diagnosis Aeon Environmental and Social Report 2015 46 Key Issue 2 Conservation of Biodiversity Management Approach Recognition of Challenges All companies harness ecosystem services, leveraging the resources produced by our ecosystem in each phase of the lifecycle, from the sourcing of raw materials to production, sales, use and disposal. At the same time, however, the world continues to lose its tropical forests while the number of fauna and flora found on the red list of endangered species continues to grow unabated. Given this situation, Aeon’s business operations cannot be sustained without the ecosystem services of agricultural produce and marine products, which is why Aeon continues to work on various initiatives for the sustainable use of resources, with biodiversity conservation considered one of the key issues. Aeon’s Approach In March 2010, Aeon established the Aeon Biodiversity Principle in order to continually promote the sustainable use of resources while conserving biodiversity. Following the Action Guidelines stipulated for this principle, Aeon is working together with customers through its products and stores. • Initiatives for products: We have been working to source and sell products that are mindful of ecosystem sustainability, such as offering MSC certified products (from 2006) and selling notepads made from FSC certified paper (from 2008). In order to further reinforce these activities, in February 2014 we devised the Aeon Sustainable Procurement Principle and the Aeon Sustainable Seafood Procurement Policy for the sourcing of sustainable sources of marine produce. • Initiatives at stores: Biodiversity has been incorporated into the standards for Smart Aeon next-generation eco stores and Aeon is expanding its use of FSC certified wood products as construction materials for MINISTOP stores. These efforts form our commitment to create stores that have a minimum impact on the ecosystem as well as the surrounding environment. The Aeon Hometown Forests Program, launched as an activity to share the importance of nature and world peace with members of the local community, has continued for more than two decades since 1991. Under this initiative, whenever we open a new store, we plant trees on the site of the store together with customers. Thus far, we have planted more than 10 million trees. Currently, we are working on activities under the themes, plant, nurture, and thrive, aimed at the next 10 million trees. Future Initiatives Environmental agencies and the Conference of Parties (COP) under the Convention on Biological Diversity are working to make biodiversity mainstream through various social and economic activities promoting the protection of biodiversity and its sustainable use, from a worldwide to local community scale. Given this, Aeon will utilize its business characteristic of coming into contact with vast numbers of consumers on a daily basis to continually highlight the importance of biodiversity through the familiar platforms of stores and products. As part of this, in fiscal 2015 Aeon steadily expanded its lineup of TOPVALU Gurinal products and is now working on devising a procurement policy for forest resources following the Aeon Sustainable Seafood Procurement Policy. Aeon Biodiversity Principle イ Aeon’s business depends on living products, such as agricultural and marine products. Recognizing this, Aeon formulated the “Aeon Biodiversity Principle in March 2010, towards the conservation of biodiversity are essential to form a sustainable society. 社 Basic Principle Action Guidelines (Excerpt) 基 Grasping the impact our overall corporate activities have on the 1. Products: We will set sustainability targets for resource managed ecosystem, we actively focus on reducing the impact on the fresh seafood and processed products, engage in their purchase ecosystem and conservation activities, working in collaboration and sale while sharing those targets with our business partners, や with our stakeholders, including our customers, local authorities and communicate related information to customers. そ and non-profit organizations. We focus on the following points 2. Stores: We will continue to promote tree-planting campaigns related to the ecosystem in our corporate activities: with local customers at new store sites and continue to develop Through our corporate activities, we Eco Stores with less environmental impact than conventional 1. Remain conscious of blessings and burdens. facilities. 2. Engage in initiatives that protect and nurture. 3. With Customers: Through tree-planting campaigns and other 3. Disclose information on our activities. programs, we will share environmental awareness and learn together with all of our customers. 47 Aeon Eco Project Aeon Environmental and Social Report 2015 Progress of KPI of FY 2014 Main KPI FY 2014 Results Category Subcategory Scope Covered Target Summary of Actions/Initiatives • Expansion of the CoC (Chain of Sustainable Resource Usage in Products Promoting Sustainable Procurement Custody) certification in ASC/ MSC Aeon group Group companies 12 companies Installation of Seafood Assessment FY 2014: Development of acquired (June 2015) Committee: Established a action plans based on the Aeon Sustainable • Expansion of and handling committee, analysis of risks and Sustainable Procurement Principle procurement Consolidated Group merchandise assortment opportunities, a study of viable and Aeon Sustainable Seafood initiatives in marine companies in Japan M  SC: 13 species, 23 items initiatives through, develop Procurement Policy products (March 2015) priority initiatives plan. (Regularly FY 2015: Efforts start that was A  SC: 2 species, 7 items (March held, efforts plan scheduled for based on the plan 2015) update) • Sales start of Completely FarmRaised Bluefin Tuna (June 2015) (Products) • Notes and to use the FSC Sustainable Resource Usage in Stores and certification raw material in the Promoting Sustainable Procurement copy paper • Use FSC certified paper to and paper tags • Kitchen towels use the FSC Sustainable Implementation of seminars that FY 2015: Development of certification raw materials to procurement Consolidated Group led to outside experts in relation procurement policies of forest (Store construction) Products policies of forest companies in Japan to sustainable procurement of resources • MINISTOP: 108 stores in resources forest resources architecture by using the FSCcertified wood domestic (as of January 2015) (Store materials) • Implement the procurement based on the Green Procurement Standards 1) C onfirm the progress and Aeon Hometown Forests Program Biodiversity Conservation at the thorough implementation of management plans at each store Companies to Focusing on GMS and SM, spread 2) S pread weeding and cleaning Maintenance and implement the Aeon planting zone management through Clean & Green Management FY 2014: 100% implementation Store Level Hometown Forests based on the management Activities carried out by Situation of Forests Program manual employees 3) D emonstration of the model store for the small tree-planting ceremony conducted at existing stores A Curriculum to Education ForestContributions to the Sustainable forest Conscious People Development of Promotion of new businesses in •C  ooperation with Mie Prefecture Consolidated Group Implementation of the Pilot circulation program the fields of the “Plant”, “Nurture”, Miyagawa forest election set Community conservation companies in Japan Project in the “Nurture” field of Aeon Sato Mori “Thrive” • E mployment in forest-related fields of students (17 people in 6 people) Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry Initiatives through our Provide products that Consolidated and Fisheries to get the “Certified companies in A total of 137 organic products, Importer” qualifications of JAS Appropriate Japan for General are friendly to the Expansion of TOPVALU Gurinai one of the largest number as organic produce processed foods products in private Merchandising Products products private brand label products in prescribed by, the development brand Store, Supermarket Japan (as of February 2015) of domestic and foreign organic ecosystem and Small Size Store products, and promote the Business procurement Aeon Environmental and Social Report 2015 48 Key Issue 2 Conservation of Biodiversity ':3FTVMUTBOE5BSHFUPG,1* ': Sustainable Resource Usage in Products Sustainable procurement initiatives in marine products Susta 2011 %FWFMPQNFOUPGBDUJPOQMBOTCBTFEPOUIF FPO 2011 Promoting Sustainable Procurement 4VTUBJOBCMF1SPDVSFNFOU1SJODJQMFBOE FPO 4VTUBJOBCMF4FBGPPE1SPDVSFNFOU1PMJDZ Our natural resources face many threats today, from ecosystem 2012 2012 destruction from overexploitation to poor agricultural t&YQBOTJPOPGUIF$P$ $IBJOPG$VTUPEZ  harvests from abnormal weather caused by climate change. 2013 DFSUJöDBUJPOJO 4$.4$ FPOHSPVQ 2013 (SPVQDPNQBOJFTDPNQBOJFTBDRVJSFE Whereas, with the supply chain now stretched across the +VOF t&YQBOTJPOPGBOEIBOEMJOHNFSDIBOEJTF entire world, Aeon must be conscious of human rights and 2014 BTTPSUNFOU 2014 working environments at suppliers as well as work to prevent .4$TQFDJFT JUFNT .BSDI 4$TQFDJFT JUFNT .BSDI corruption, including bribery and extortion. 2015 t4BMFTTUBSUPG$PNQMFUFMZ'BSN3BJTFE 2015 The products manufactured and sold by Aeon are made #MVFöO5VOB +VOF possible by the bounty of nature and contain raw materials 2020 &òPSUTTUBSUUIBUXBTCBTFEPOUIFQMBO 2020 procured from producers and locations around the globe. We have been following a green procurement strategy for ':3FTVMUTBOE5BSHFUPG,1* some time now where we prioritize the procurement of ':3FTVMUTBOE5BSHFUPG,1* ': products that are environmentally friendly, but to achieve Sustainable procurement initiatives in marine products Sustainable procurement policies of forest resources Maint even more sustainable procurement, we commenced efforts to formulate 2011 CSR Procurement Guidelines in 2011. Through %FWFMPQNFOUPGBDUJPOQMBOTCBTFEPOUIF FPO 2011 2011 4VTUBJOBCMF1SPDVSFNFOU1SJODJQMFBOE FPO (Products) the work of a CSR Procurement Guidelines Committee 4VTUBJOBCMF4FBGPPE1SPDVSFNFOU1PMJDZ t/PUFTBOEUPVTFUIF'4$DFSUJöDBUJPOSBXNBUFSJBMJO UIFDPQZQBQFS comprised 2012 of managers from related Aeon departments, and 2012 t6TF'4$DFSUJöFEQBQFSUPBOEQBQFSUBHT 2012 tasked with gathering CSR procurement-related t&YQBOTJPOPGUIF$P$ information, $IBJOPG$VTUPEZ  t,JUDIFOUPXFMTVTFUIF'4$DFSUJöDBUJPOSBXNBUFSJBMTUP DFSUJöDBUJPOJO 4$.4$ FPOHSPVQ 4UPSFDPOTUSVDUJPO we 2013 formulated and published, in February 2014, our (SPVQDPNQBOJFTDPNQBOJFTBDRVJSFEAeon 2013 t.*/*4501TUPSFTJOBSDIJUFDUVSFCZVTJOHUIF 2013 +VOF '4$DFSUJöFEXPPEEPNFTUJD BTPG+BOVBSZ Sustainable Procurement Principle. In addition, we also set in 4UPSFNBUFSJBMT t&YQBOTJPOPGBOEIBOEMJOHNFSDIBOEJTF 2014 place an Aeon Sustainable Seafood Procurement Policy in order BTTPSUNFOU 2014 t*NQMFNFOUUIFQSPDVSFNFOUCBTFEPOUIF(SFFO 2014 1SPDVSFNFOU4UBOEBSET .4$TQFDJFT JUFNT .BSDI to further elevate our 4$TQFDJFT efforts toward procuring JUFNT sustainable .BSDI 2015products. marine t4BMFTTUBSUPG$PNQMFUFMZ'BSN3BJTFE 2015 %FWFMPQNFOUPGQSPDVSFNFOUQPMJDJFTPGGPSFTUSFTPVSDFT 2015 #MVFöO5VOB +VOF In fiscal 2014, we established the Seafood Assessment 2020 Committee comprised of Aeon's Environment Division &òPSUTTUBSUUIBUXBTCBTFEPOUIFQMBO 2020 2020 and other Divisions at Aeon Group companies, functional companies, and other companies. Based on input from external stakeholders (NGOs, the government, seafood businesses), we Communicate Biodiversity-friendly Products to analyzed risks and opportunities, reviewed feasible projects, Customers and used the results to formulate key initiatives. Aeon is committed to informing customers and earning In fiscal 2015, we took the plan we formulated in fiscal 2014 their support with regard to the importance and significance and commenced sales of completely farmed tuna that does of using sustainable products and products that conserve not rely on wild tuna stocks. biodiversity. Based on this commitment, we are engaging in In addition, following on from formulating the Aeon a variety of initiatives such as providing products that take Sustainable Seafood Procurement Policy, we started into account the sustainable use of bio resources, as well formulating a Forest Resource Procurement Policy, which is as providing opportunities for people to learn more about scheduled to be completed and published during fiscal 2015. biodiversity. Aeon Sustainable Procurement Principle 1. Elimination of illegal trading, harvesting and fishing of natural resources 2. Setting and following Aeon’s standard for conservation of biodiversity and prevention of natural resource depletion 3. Minimizing use of non-renewable resources 4. Establishing agricultural and fishery production locations and fishing method traceability 5. Conservation and prevention of destruction of high-protective value forests 49 Aeon Environmental and Social Report 2015 Promoting the Procurement of Sustainable Seafood Aeon actively works to procure sustainable seafood products TOPICS in order to help protect limited marine resources and to hand Commencing Sales of Completely Farmdown to future generations our traditional culture surrounding Raised Bluefin Tuna food sources from the water and sea. Aeon started selling completely farm-raised* Aeon Sustainable Seafood Procurement Policy TOPVALU Gurinai Amami Carry out regular risk assessments from a resource depletion Bluefin Tuna in June 2015. prevention and biodiversity conservation perspective. Also, in We are the first Japanese order to mitigate risks, review feasible countermeasures and strive private brand to start selling to procure sustainable seafood. completely farm-raised Bluefin Tuna (lean) Specific Measures tuna. 1. Provision of Certified Products International measures 2. Establishment of Traceability Measures 3. Elimination of Illegal Trade have been stepped up for the 4. Regular Risk Assessments management of wild natural resources. Bluefin tuna was designated in November 2014 Selling MSC-certified products is part of this effort. The Sales floor as a wild animal in danger of Marine Stewardship Council (MSC) is an international body extinction by the International Union for the Conservation overseeing a program that certifies the fishing industry’s of Nature and Natural Resources (IUCN), and, in December commitment to the environment and sustainable resources. of the same year, the Western and Central Pacific Fisheries The Marine Eco-Label seal of approval is placed on marine Commission (WCPFC) decided to halve catches of young products caught by certified fisheries. After beginning to sell Atlantic Bluefin tuna. MSC-certified products in 2006, Aeon has gradually expanded These circumstances led Aeon to supply completely the number of available items. As of March 2015, we offer farm-raised Bluefin tuna from the perspective of resource depletion prevention and biodiversity conservation, and customers 23 MSC-certified products across 13 species—more we did so utilizing the cooperation of Maruha Nichiro than any other retailer in Japan. Corporation and their ability to raise completely farmed tuna Also, from 2014, we started selling products in Asia certified that does not rely on wild stocks. by ASC (the Aquaculture Stewardship Council) as seafood In addition, in consideration of the ecosystem produced through responsible aquaculture. As of March 2015, surrounding fish farms, we are taking care to regularly carry we are selling seven products in two product categories. out water quality checks and properly steward the natural In June 2015, eight Group companies joined AEON Retail environment around Amami island. Co., Ltd., AEON Hokkaido Corporation, AEON Kyushu Co., Ltd., Going forward, Aeon will promote the procurement and AEON Ryukyu Co., Ltd. in acquiring Chain of Custody and sale of sustainable seafood by protecting limited (CoC) certification. CoC certification ensures the reliability of resources. * Completely farm raised: Fertilized eggs are taken from adult tuna and MSC(Marine Stewardship Council) and ASC(Aquaculture artificially hatched, then those eggs are raised in a full cycle that does not Stewardship Council) certified products and is a system for rely on wild tuna stocks. assuring consumers of the traceability of certified products. Going forward, Aeon will promote procurement of sustainable seafood by increasing the number of companies that acquire Selling FSC® certified products certification. The Forest Stewardship Council certifies wood products and paper manufactured with timber from properly managed sustainable forests. Aeon has been selling notebooks and other FSC-certified paper products since 2008. From fiscal 2011, we have been using FSC-certified materials for price tags and other widely used markers. TOPVALU MSC-certified cod TOPVALU ASC-certified raw Atlantic salmon FSC certification Notebook made from FSC-certified paper Aeon Environmental and Social Report 2015 50 Key Issue 2 Conservation of Biodiversity Letting Forests Grow Biodiversity Conservation at the Store Level Total China 10,867,710 trees As of February 28, 2015 1,218,483trees Next 10 Million Trees—Plant Japan Laos Aeon Hometown Forests Program 8,629,688trees 148,250trees Aeon, since the launch of our Hometown Forests Program in 1991, has been integrating new stores and encouraging local Myanmar Vietnam residents in the greening of their communities. Under this 14,000trees 60,000trees program, we join with our customers to plant trees on new Thailand Vietnam store sites. In fiscal 2014 we planted a total of 544,495 young 225,500trees 22,844trees trees in 38 locations. Kenya 3,450trees Malaysia As of the end of February 2015, 10,867,710 trees* had been 482,295trees planted through these activities. Aeon is deeply grateful to the customers who have participated in our tree planting Australia Indonesia 200trees efforts and we look forward to the next 10 million trees, which 63,000trees we will plant and nurture alongside our customers and local communities. * Combined total for the Aeon Hometown Forests Program and Aeon Environmental Foundation. Developing and Evaluating Indicators Aeon pays great attention to conservation and creation of ecosystems in developing its stores through initiatives such as planning and implementing biodiversity evaluation and environmental burden reduction measures when opening stores. The aim is to minimize the impact of our stores on the surrounding environment and ecosystem. Examples of these initiatives include the Aeon Hometown Forests Program and installing biotopes at some of our shopping centers. In fiscal 2014, at Aeon Mall Tendo, we built a Rain Garden™ that recycles rainwater, and we installed a rooftop biotope at Aeon Mall Tamadairanomori, both as part of efforts to build ':3FTVMUTBOE5BSHFUPG,1* stores that utilize space in ways conscious of ecosystem ':3FTVMUTBOE5BSHFUPG,1* ': preservation, and that effectively utilize natural resources. Maintenance and Management Situation of Forests イオン里 Following ・森の循環プログラムの開発 Aeon Mall Toin last year, Aeon Mall プラ Tamadairanomori acquired the Sustainable Business Sites® 2011 2011 2011 SJBMJO Certificate (for urban areas and shopping centers) from the Planned execution Association for Business Innovation in Harmony with Nature 2012 2012 2012 FSJBMTUP Horizontal development of setting model stores, manual and Community (ABINC). workshop, progress management of budget planning F 2013 In fiscal 2015 and beyond, Aeon plans to actively adopt 2013 2013  policies aware of biodiversity, focusing on newly opening store 「植える」 「育てる」 「活かす」 の各分 O 2014 JNQMFNFOUBUJPO 2014 sites. 野での新規事業の推進 2014 'PDVTJOHPO(.4BOE4$ TQSFBEQMBOUJOH[POF 「育てる」 分野での試行事業の実施 FTPVSDFT 2015 NBOBHFNFOUCBTFEPOUIFNBOBHFNFOUNBOVBM 2015 2015 2020 2020 2020 51 Aeon Environmental and Social Report 2015 utilization of forest products such as lumber, etc. as resources TOPICS for our products and building materials Ideal Biotopes as Fusions of Aeon Stores for our stores. We will continue to create and Local Communities enriching lives for people with the natural blessings of a healthy forest life Aeon's first biotope at a store opened in the 21st century was the design that boldly rises up in the middle of the Aeon cycle. Letting Forests Grow Plant, Nurture, Thrive Mall Yokkaichikita parking lot. The biotope encompasses approximately 990 square meters of green space that was a neighborhood shrine, shrine woods, and their surrounding Next 10 Million Trees—Nurture waters. A Curriculum to Education Forest-Conscious With the cooperation of Chamber Group, a local People environmental NPO led by Hiromi Tanaka, the biotope is In recent years, preventing global warming and conserving being maintained with an aim toward proliferating plant biodiversity are challenges joined by another urgent social and animal life, based on expert advice on insects, fish, and issue. That is, preserving and sustainably using forests, which plants suitable for a shopping center location. serve multifaceted roles for carrying on Japanese culture, Weeding and daily maintenance is performed with the offering recreation, etc., and villages, which serve as places for help of employee volunteers who are Aeon Biopark Assist members, while the site is also used for Aeon Cheers Club humans and nature to coexist. activities and advanced environmental education including The Forest Connection Project—Educating Forestplanting festivals, pond drying and animal observation Conscious People is a collaborative effort between Aeon, Mie events, firefly habitat creation, and invasive species surveys Prefecture, and the NPO Miyagawa Shinsengumi, aiming to and removal. In 2015, firefly habitat creation was facilitated foster the future generation of forestry workers by offering with various experiments, including those to shut out various programs to deepen understanding of Japan's forest ambient light and those to release adult fireflies, all as part of management. our daily efforts to develop the project. In fiscal 2014, the Project was held over the course of five Going forward, a challenge for us is how to help our months, from October 5, 2014 to March 8, 2015 (17 days all customers be more involved with the biotope as we total), in Odaicho, Mie prefecture. The curriculum included a continue to put time and effort into this particular area of lecture on forests and forestry (the two-day forest seminar ), biodiversity consciousness in our retail business. on-site training (the five-day forest skills course plus three days of field work), and a workshop on effectively utilizing forest resources (the two-day forest laboratory ), for 12 days of study. The five-day forest skills course was especially unique and hands-on. By focusing on making a functional pathway for workers, the course taught forestry labor techniques and skills directly in the mountain forests of Odaicho. 17 participants completed the curriculum, with 6 of them Contributions to the Community later changing their work focus to forestry-related jobs. Sustainable Forest Conservation —Plant, Nurture, Thrive When we open a new store, our Aeon Hometown Forests Program joins with our customers to plant trees on the new site. Since this Program began at our Jusco Malacca store in Malaysia in 1991 (the store has since been renamed Aeon Malacca SC), over one million customers have helped us plant trees over the course of more than 20 years, passing the 10 millionth tree mark in 2013. Seizing this opportunity, we announced new objectives to “plant, nurture, and thrive” as we work toward the next 10 million trees. Specifically, our plant objective targets tree planting that improves the quality of life in regions across the globe, and tree planting that helps protect areas from tsunami and disasters; our nurture objective targets activities to help foster forests; and our thrive objective promotes the Aeon Environmental and Social Report 2015 52 Key Issue 2 Conservation of Biodiversity Next 10 Million Trees—Thrive Expanding Use of Eco-friendly FSC® Japan Certified Initiatives through our Products Wood Materials Aeon has been developing stores with attention to ecosystem conservation. Ministop Co., Ltd., for example, opened a TOPVALU Gurinai MINISTOP store that used 100% FSC Japan certified materials TOPVALU Gurinai is a food safety brand that considers natural in 2009, as the first FSC-certified convenience store in Japan. environmental friendliness and health for our bodies. The As of the end of February 2015, 108 MINISTOP stores are FSC brand’s product lineup offers food that meets customer certified. Going forward, we plan to actively increase the demands and their desire to buy food that is safer because it is number of environmentally-friendly stores using FSC Japan something we eat every day . certified materials. Developing and Promoting the Procurement of Organic Products The TOPVALU Gurinai Organic Food Series offers a wider variety of environment friendly items certified both nationally and internationally as organic food. In order to reflect consumer interest in healthy food, safety and security, as well as to Store under construction MINISTOP store respond to requests from customers for more organic products (FSC-JPN-0036 ®FSC, A.C. All rights reserved.) in our stores, we promote development and procurement of organic products in Japan and from other countries utilizing the Japanese Agricultural Standards (JAS) certification for TOPICS importers of organic Aeon Initiatives for Biodiversity agricultural/processed Conservation and Sustainable Use Become food products, a Certified for Affiliation with the Japan certification issued by the Ministry of Committee for UNDB (UNDB-J) Agriculture, Forestry Under the Aeon Biodiversity Principle formulated in 2010 and Fisheries (MAFF) of TOPVALU Gurinai Organic Food Series and the Aeon Sustainable Procurement Principle formulated Japan. in 2014, Aeon has been promoting sustainable resource procurement conscious of both the environment and conservation of biodiversity in our product development Organic JAS logo and store construction. Operators certified by certification organizations registered These initiatives by the MAFF are able to attach the organic JAS logo to their implemented through our products. The logo is attached to agricultural, processed, or business activities have been livestock products, as well as livestock feed, produced with a recognized as contributing method of organic farming that uses natural power instead of concretely to conservation of the pesticides or chemical fertilizers. ecosystem and to sustainable use of resources, leading to their certified affiliation with the Japan Committee for the United Nations Decade on Biodiversity.* 有機JASマーク * Japan Committee for the United Nations Decade on Biodiversity: Established in 2011 to promote initiatives for biodiversity conservation and sustainability, and tasked with working toward achieving the Aichi targets adopted at the Conference of the Parties to the Convention on Biological Diversity (COP10). UNDB-J provides information and opportunities for interaction for groups, companies, governments, and institutions carrying out biodiversity conservation activities, and also fulfills the role of promoting cross-collaboration between those activities. 53 Aeon Environmental and Social Report 2015 Aeon Environmental Foundation Initiatives Aeon Tree-Planting Activities Excellence in Biodiversity Maintenance Biodiversity Award The Aeon Environmental Foundation, with cooperation at the The Aeon Environmental Foundation inaugurated the Japan national and local government level, conducts tree-planting Awards for Biodiversity to promote biodiversity conservation and activities that aim to regenerate forests devastated by natural sustainable use of biodiversity in Japan, as well as the MIDORI Prize disasters. The Foundation’s current tree-planting initiatives are for Biodiversity, which is an international prize. The two awards being carried out in different parts of the world, particularly in Asia, honor recipients in alternate years. in addition to Japan. In fiscal 2014, we sponsored the third awards ceremony for In fiscal 2014, domestic locations included Urayasu city (Chiba the MIDORI Prize for Biodiversity and presented the awards to Dr. prefecture) and Aya town (Miyazaki prefecture), both continuing Kamal Bawa from India, Dr. Alfred Oteng-Yeboah from Ghana, and their tree planting activities from fiscal 2013, plus Mukawa town Dr. Bibiana Vilá from (Hokkaido), Chita city (Aichi prefecture), and Kihoku town (Mie Argentina. In fiscal 2015, prefecture) in the final year of their planting schedule. we will hold the fourth Outside Japan, the second year of tree planting was carried out awards ceremony for as part of 3-year plans in Yangon, Myanmar, and Hanoi, Vietnam, the Japan Awards for in addition to single-year projects in Suzhou, China and Bidor, Biodiversity. Malaysia. In fiscal 2015, on-going projects continued, with the addition of new projects getting off the ground in Atsumacho, Hokkaido and Winners Phnom Penh, Cambodia. Dr. Kamal Bawa (India) President, Ashoka Trust for Research in Ecology and the Environment (ATREE), India; Distinguished Professor, University of Massachusetts, Boston, USA Dr. Alfred Oteng-Yeboah (Ghana) Chair, Ghana National Biodiversity Committee, Ghana Dr. Bibiana Vilá (Argentina) Principal Researcher, National Research Council (CONICET); Director, Vicuñas, Camelids and Environment (VICAM), Argentina Tree planting in Urayasu, Chiba Tree planting in Aya, Miyazaki Giving Grants for Environmental Activities Since its establishment in 1990, the Aeon Environmental Foundation has awarded grants for activities related to sustainable use and the preservation of biodiversity in Japan and developing countries. In fiscal 2014, 99.74 million yen was awarded to 102 organizations throughout the world that are engaged in tree planting and forest improvement, anti-desertification, regeneration Tree planting in Yangon, Myanmar Tree planting in Hanoi, Vietnam of mountain villages and the nearby woodlands and ocean, cleanup of lakes and rivers, wildlife protection, and endangered species conservation. The total number of organizations awarded reached 2,565, and the total amount reached 2,306.13 million yen. We will continue in 2015 to Tree-planting event by NPO call for grant applications. Shirakami Mountain Preservation Society (Aomori Prefecture) Aeon Environmental and Social Report 2015 54 Key Issue 3 Better Use of Resources Management Approach Recognition of Challenges The world’s population continues to grow. Many believe it will increase from the current 7 billion to 9 billion by the year 2050. Meanwhile, the issues of hunger and poverty continue to plague developing countries. The only way to improve the living standards of people around the world in a sustainable manner is to make sure that the earth’s limited resources are used effectively and responsibly. Aeon produces food waste through the operation of more than 18,000 stores both in Japan and other parts of the world and is also tied to waste produced by customers after the use of plastic bags and food containers. This is why we are working on various activities for the better use of resources as one of our key issues. Aeon’s Approach Aeon launched the Bring Your Own Shopping Bag Campaign back in 1991 and has changed the specifications and formats of packaging materials as part of its ongoing efforts aimed at the responsible use of resources. In 2000, the Bring Your Own Shopping Bag Campaign developed into the My Basket Campaign where customer bring their own shopping basket and in 2007 Aeon was the first nationwide retailer to eliminate free plastic bags at the register, illustrating its many pioneering initiatives over the years. As a result of these initiatives, as of February 28, 2015 some 67.5% of Aeon customers decline plastic shopping bags, greatly exceeding the industrywide average of 51.3% (as of March 2015). Aeon established a goal to achieve zero waste (reduction of landfill waste to zero) at its stores by fiscal 2020, given the rising demand in society to reduce waste, and began stepping up its initiatives. Food waste, a growing social issue, has also been established as a priority KPI. Future Initiatives The reduction of garbage and food waste was included as a goal within the Sustainable Development Goals Report issued by the United Nations in 2014. Additionally, Japan is set to tighten related regulations as well, including the Food Recycling Law and Waste Management and Public Cleansing Act. Given this rising demand from society, the Aeon Group will consolidate the individual activities of its companies and regions during fiscal 2015 and establish a common Aeon Group infrastructure after organizing the basic approach, case studies and indicators of these activities. Starting in fiscal 2016, Aeon’s subsidiaries will begin to set individual targets and carry out efforts to achieve them. 55 Aeon Environmental and Social Report 2015 Progress of KPI of FY 2014 Main KPI FY 2014 Results Category Subcategory Scope Covered Target Summary of Actions/Initiatives Amount for ThirdReduce Amount of Materials Used in Party Processing FY 2010: 1,175 tons Required under the FY 2014: 0.94 tons below (* 20% Reduce the use of sales materials Law for the Promotion Consolidated reduction or more compared to such as plastic shopping bag 0.88 tons of Sorted Collection companies subject to FY 2010) reduction * 25.1% reduction compared to and Recycling of third-party processing * From FY 2014, to change to the • Specification change of packaging Packaging and Containers original unit comparison as a FY 2010 Containers and requirements materials Packaging (basic unit group from the companies of • Review of providing method the original unit total per ¥100 million in net sales) Consolidated FY 2013: To understand the Food Waste 1) Disposal sales change of companies in Japan for amount, to set reduction Retail performance Emissions (amount reduction General Merchandising targets FY 2013: 38.73kg/million yen per ¥100 million in 2) Thorough sorting of what the Store and Supermarket FY 2014: Reduction from the FY 2014: 35.32kg/one million yen net sales) resources businesses previous year Consolidated Initiatives for Zero Waste in Stores and Products 1) Waste oil, fish crude recycling, companies in Japan for Retail performance Food waste Food retailing consignment forwarding to play Reducing Food Waste Emissions General Merchandising FY 2013: 50.2% recycling rate (FY 2015-FY 2019) operators Store and Supermarket FY 2014: 52.3% 2) Construction of recycling loop businesses 1) A EON AGRI CREATE Co., Ltd. and DAIEI KANKYO Holdings Co., Ltd. signed an “Agreement on food recycling loop propulsion” in September 2014 Domestic Construction of Stretch penetrating type food 2) F ood residue of vegetables and consolidated target Domestic consolidated target of Food Recycling recycling loop operation in Miki meat or the like generated by an of food-related food-related companies Loop city Hyogo prefecture ion store or the like is compost companies processed at composting facilities of Daiei environment (strain), it is used in ion Miki-satowaki farm, selling the cultivated vegetables in this compost in ion store Maxvalu Chubu: the reduction and recycling increase in the amount of waste, dropping to department objectives for each sector, and Reduce Waste Consolidated Group Aggregation and sharing of promoting efforts Emissions of noncompanies in Japan Expansion efforts information Group companies AEON RYUKYU: By selling as food waste and overseas (Japan, Efforts thorough resources fractionation China and ASEAN) of cans, bottles, pet tray, reduce the amount to be discarded Laura Ashley: furniture reuse promotion 1) Conducted the “Aeon My Bag Reduce Number of Plastic Together with Customers Percentage Consolidated Design Contest”, the highest of Customers Group companies award three works is my bag of, 67.5% (Stop Free Plastic Shopping Declining Plastic in Japan for General FY 2014: More than 70% sold in stores nationwide Bags stores increased 49 stores, it Shopping Bags Merchandising Store FY 2020: More than 80% 2) Active participation and outreach Shopping Bags became 1,392 stores in total) (nationwide store and Supermarket to the shopping bag free average) businesses distribution abort agreement in the region Number of Employees The training by external Completing Internal Seminar participants: 53, Strengthening the Management System Strengthening the Management System Consolidated Group FY 2014: Total more than 300 specialized agencies. Utilizing the Training Course to Examinees: 30, Successful companies in Japan people TV conference, a larger student Improve Management candidates: 30 opportunities of Waste Emissions Companies that were introduced into the 2014 year-end: 12 More than 95%: The Daiei, Inc., MAXVALU KANTO CO., LTD., MAXVALU NAGANO CO., LTD., SANYO MARUNAKA CO.,LTD., Information sharing, such as Electronic manifest Consolidated Group Until FY 2016: The introduction of AEON BIG CO., LTD., ORIGIN TOSHU CO., good efforts and results and the introduction rate companies in Japan 50% LTD., My Basket CO.,LTD introduction procedure 95% or less: AEON Retail Co., Ltd., AEONBIKE CO., LTD., Maxvalu Chubu Co., Ltd., AEON MARKET CO., LTD., AEON TOWN Co.,Ltd. Aeon Environmental and Social Report 2015 56 Key Issue 3 Better Use of Resources Packaging materials reduction case 2 Initiatives for Zero Waste in Stores and In the past we attached both a product name sticker and a Products thermal sticker to bentos and salads. We have eliminated the product name sticker by putting the TOPVALU logo on the Reducing Amount of Materials Used in Packaging thermal sticker. As a result, we were able reduce the number of and Containers stickers by 1.2 million a month. Most of the rubbish discharged from the home is made up of packaging and containers. It is therefore an important responsibility of the retail industry to sell products used in everyday life that contribute to less rubbish by minimizing them. lts and Target of KPI With this in mind, Aeon is working actively FY 2014to reduce Results theand Target of KPI amount of packaging and containers we use. In addition ocurement initiatives in marine products Sustainable procurement policies of forest resources to focusing on reducing plastic shopping bags, we are also Developmentpromoting of action plans thebased use onof thinner the Aeonas well as more 2011ecofriendly trays. Packaging materials reduction case 3 Sustainable Procurement Principle andTOPVALU Aeon (Products) When developing Sustainable Seafood Procurement Policy products, we closely examine We • Notes and to use the FSC trialed the supply certiﬁcation of TOPVALU raw material in Gurinai Junkikei Chicken packaging and containers and after careful2012 consideration the copy paper replacing tray film packaging with three sided packaging with • Use FSC certiﬁed paper to and paper tags • Expansion ofof thethe CoC (Chain on impact the quality of product contents and safety of Custody) • Kitchen towels use the the FSC of reducing aimcertiﬁcation rawhousehold materials garbage. We plan full-scale certiﬁcation in ASC/ MSC Aeon group to during 2013 Group companies 12shipment, companies we work to make product containers lighter (Store construction) introduction of the new packaging from the beginning of 2016. acquired (June 2015) • MINISTOP: 108 stores in architecture by using the and more thin-walled and switch to recyclable material.FSC-certiﬁed wood domestic (as of January 2015) • Expansion of and handling merchandise assortment Additionally, we are striving to develop refillable 2014 products (Storeandmaterials) • Implement the procurement based on the Green MSC: 13 species, change 23 items (March 2015) packaging material based on customer feedback. Procurement Standards ASC: 2 species, 7 items (March 2015) As a result • Sales start of Completely of these efforts, we reduced the Farm-Raised 2015required amount of procurement policies of forest resources Development Blueﬁn Tuna (June 2015) of packaging and containers for recycling by a third party (per Eﬀorts start that was ¥100 based on thein million plannet sales) under the Law 2020for Promotion of Sorted Collection and Recycling of Containers and Packaging by 25.1% in fiscal 2014 compared with fiscal 2010, with a total Reducing Food Waste Emissions of 0.88 tons*. Aeon is committed to reducing the volume of food waste al CO2 Emissions Factor Moving forward, we plan to take further actions. produced by stores. For example, Aeon Retail Co., Ltd. has s / Total Floor Area) * In fiscal 2014, we switched from the per unit total for each company (total volume) to established a target for a food waste-to-sales ratio* of 0.5% or a per unit comparison as a Group. less. FY 2014 Results and Target of KPI fiscal 2014, In 2014 FY Results the Target of KPIresults failed to meet company-wide and FY 20 targets. However, led by store managers, many individual stores Amount for Third-Party Processing Required under Food Waste successfully Emissions kept the food(amount per ¥100 million in sales) waste-to-sales ratio low through Food the Law for the Promotion of Sorted Collection and Recycling of Containers and Packaging such means as implementing thorough progress management 2011 t.FBTVSFNFOUTZTUFNJTOPUQSPHSFTT 2013 (basic unit per ¥100 million in net sales) of price changes, promotion of information t&NJTTJPOTPG'PPE3FDZDMJOH-BXJT sharing through meetings, NBEFBXBSFPGUIFJSSFTQFDUJWFPXOFST clearance of products using taste testing and other 1.175tons 2012 2014 2010 methods, and early withdrawal of products with degraded LHNJMMJPOZFO freshness. 2013 2012 2015 In fiscal 2015, we will share this best practice Group-wide and 2014 continue promoting initiatives Reduction from the aimed previous year at reducing food 2020 2013 waste. 0.94 tons below * Food waste-to-sales ratio: Food waste 35.32kg/million x Retail price / Salesyen (20% or more reduction compared with FY 2010) 2015 2014 0.88 tons (25.1% reduction compared with FY 2010) 2020 2015 2020 Packaging materials reduction case 1 TOPVALU BESTPRICE Buttered Roll, we tried to save materials by eliminating the closure mechanism and shortening the length of the product bag. As a result, we were able to cut the bag weight to approx. 50% of the benchmark national brands. 57 Aeon Environmental and Social Report 2015 FY 2014 Results and Target of KPI Circulation FY 2014 flow Results and Target of KPI FY 20 Food Waste Emissions (amount per ¥100 million in sales) Food waste recycling rate 食品 50.2% 2011 t.FBTVSFNFOUTZTUFNJTOPUQSPHSFTT 2013 2011 t&NJTTJPOTPG'PPE3FDZDMJOH-BXJT NBEFBXBSFPGUIFJSSFTQFDUJWFPXOFST 2012 2014 52.3% 2012 LHNJMMJPOZFO 2013 2013 2015 Reduction from the previous year 55% (FY 2015-FY 2019) 2014 2020 2014 35.32kg/million yen 2010) 2015 2015 2020 2020 VOICE FY 2014 Results and Target of KPI FY continue We2014 toand Results provide Target of KPI traceable to its source compost FY 20 materials. Food waste recycling rate 食品リサイクルループ構築 Emiss Aeon’s efforts toward a self-contained food-recycling loop have 50.2% an impact not only as food recycling, but also as a mechanism 2013 2011 2013 for better use of resources, and thus we recognize 2012 the possibility of triggering 2014 52.3% 2014 a substantial change in society. While expanding 2013 the scale of recycling, we will 2015 bear the responsibility of supplying safe, 2015 r 55% (FY 2015-FY 2019) reliable compost that is traceable to its （1か所/年） リサイクルループの構築 2020 2014 Fumio Kaneko source. 2020 三木市にて一気通貫型食品リサイクルループ稼働 President and CEO DAIEI KANKYO Holdings 2015 Co., Ltd. Construction of Food Recycling Loop 2020 Aeon Agri Create Co., Ltd., which manages Aeon’s directly operated farms, and Daiei Kankyo Co., Ltd., engaged in Reducing Waste recycling business, concluded an Agreement on the As an enterprise that operates business in approximately 18,000 Promotion of Food Recycling Loop in September 2014. The stores and locations in Japan and overseas, Aeon generates two companies will establish the largest compost recycling a large volume of waste. The social demand for reductions loop in Japan by creating a cooperative network among Aeon in waste has increased in Japan and overseas. In addition to Miki-Satowaki farm, Aeon stores and the compost processing the prospect that targets for waste management and food facilities. waste reduction will be incorporated into the United Nations’ Daiei Kankyo processes food waste such as vegetables and Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), regulations are also meat dregs gathered from the stores. The produced compost being strengthened in the EU. Moreover, there are plans is then used on the Aeon Miki-Satowaki farm. The vegetables to strengthen waste-related laws and regulations in Japan, grown and harvested using this compost will be sold in Aeon including the Food Recycling Law and the Waste Management stores. In this way, Aeon’s self-contained food recycling loop and Public Cleansing Act. will be realized. In order to meet these demands, Aeon has decided to further strengthen initiatives aimed at reducing waste and has established a new target for zero waste by fiscal 2020 (reduction of landfill waste to zero) to launch initiatives. Social demands concerning food waste are particularly significant, and we have given priority to establishing KPIs related to the Food Recycling Law. While many companies are conducting a variety of initiatives aimed at reducing waste, the reality of the current Aeon Miki-Satowaki farm Aeon Group initiatives is that they are being implemented by individual stores and regions. Based on this situation, in addition to aggregating, sharing and communicating the circumstances at each company, we will promote the creation of infrastructure to coordinate approaches and indicators Aeon Environmental and Social Report 2015 58 Key Issue 3 Better Use of Resources and to implement common Group initiatives in fiscal 2015. Promoting Green Purchasing Following that, in fiscal 2016, we will aim for each company to We began “green purchasing” efforts in 1996. When establish targets and promote initiatives. purchasing stationery and other office supplies, we adequately consider their necessity and make purchasing decisions while FY 2014 Results and Target of KPI FY 2014 Results prioritizing products andwithTarget of KPI low environmental impacts. This is FY 20 Emissions of non-food waste done as a matter of course for office Percentage of Customers Declining Plastic Shoppingsupplies, but we are Bagsalso Numb expanding the average) (nationwide store scope of green purchasing to include display to Im 2013 cases, shelving and other fixtures60.4％ used on sales floors as well as 2011 2011 construction materials and the like. Towards the strengthening of efforts, and set a 2014 new goal of “until fiscal 2020 to zero waste” We 2012 commenced green purchasing 63.4％ for construction 2012 materials in fiscal 2001. When developing new general 2015 Aggregation and sharing of information merchandise 2013 stores, we strive to67.8％ use products procured Group companies Efforts 2013 through green purchasing for construction materials and 2020 Promoting efforts to set the target at 2014 the range of items subject increase More than green purchasing. to70% プ稼働 Group companies 2014 Stop Free Plastic Shopping Bags stores increased 49 stores, it 2015 became 1,392 stores in total 2015 Use of Returnable Containers Together with Customers Aeon is reducing the amount of cardboard thrown away at 2020 More than 80% 2020 stores by using returnable containers and agricultural product containers that can be used repeatedly when shipping Reducing Plastic Bag Use products. For more than twenty years since 1991, Aeon has engaged in In addition, our apparel departments conduct reused efforts to conserve petroleum, the raw material of plastic bags, hanger delivery in which clothing is brought to the store on and cut CO2 emissions from the production of plastic bags. hangers and then displayed on the sales floor using the same In fiscal 2014, we held the Aeon My Bag Design Contest hangers. This reduces the amount of cardboard boxes used with the aim of further increasing customers’ use of their own when transporting the clothing and the amount of hangers shopping bags. used only for transport. As of the end of February 2015, the reduction of plastic bags In fiscal 2014 we used 66.29 million cases of returnable at our 26 Group companies has totaled 2,482.5 million bags, containers*, 21.76 million cases of agricultural product with 67.5% of customers declining plastic bags. This result containers, which helped us substantially reduce cardboard broadly outpaces the 51.28%*1 average for retailing businesses waste. and has led to 74,174 tons*2 of CO2 reductions. * Aeon’s own containers only. For customers that desire them, we offer plastic bags for a fee. We donate the profit*3 toward local environmental Usage of Returnable Container, Agricultural Product Container conservation through local governments, etc., The profit in fiscal 2014 was approximately 5.35 million yen. Production Site *1 As of March 2015. Study by the Japan Chain Stores Association. *2 CO2 reduction rate index: 30.8 g-CO2 per plastic bag declined by customers (treated as 6.8 g of unused HDPE plastic bags). Returnable Container Use *3 Plastic bag profit = Sales price − (consumption taxes + material cost) 66.29 million cases Cardboard Agricultural Product Container Use 21.76 million cases AEON メーカー リユースハンガー使用量 *,***万本 ダンボール AEON 59 Aeon Environmental and Social Report 2015 FY 2014 Results and Target of KPI Progress FY 2014 plastic bag of Results andreductions Target of KPI FY 20 Percentage of Customers Declining Plastic Shopping Bags Number of Employees Completing Internal Training Course Electr (nationwide store average) to1991 Improve Management of Waste Emissions 60.4％ Began the Bring Your Own 2011 Total number 2011 of stores Shopping 4FNJOBSQBSUJDJQBOUT Bag Campaign calling 4VDDFTTGVMDBOEJEBUFT (as of February, 2015) 2011 on customers to bring their own 1,392 a 2012 63.4％ shopping bags 4FNJOBSQBSUJDJQBOUT &YBNJOFFT 4VDDFTTGVMDBOEJEBUFT 2012 2012 stores 2013 (Total for 26 Aeon 2013 Group companies) 67.8％ 2000 2013 4FNJOBSQBSUJDJQBOUT &YBNJOFFT 4VDDFTTGVMDBOEJEBUFT Began the “My Basket” Campaign More than 70% 2014 2014 2014 Seminar participants total more than 300 people Stop Free Plastic Shopping Bags Seminar participants total 316 people stores increased 49 stores, it 2015 2015 Seminar participants: 53, Examinees: First for30, a nationwide became 1,392 stores in total 2015 Successful candidates: 30 2007 retail chain in Japan 2016 2020 More than 80% Began 2020 the Stop Free Plastic Shopping Bags Program Stores Stopping Free Plastic Shopping Bags For use in regrowing Total number of stores (as of February, 2015) 2009 regional forests, etc. 1,392 (Total for 26 Aeon stores Reduction in the number of Began an initiative to direct profit from plastic bag charges into environmental conversation efforts Group companies) 2,294.57 plastic bags million reduction 1,738.9 1,804.44 2,408.25 2013 1,661.55 million reduction million reduction million reduction Introduced bio-mass certified million reduction CO2 reduced plastic bags and My Baskets 74,174t-co (for a fee) Bio My Baskets 2 Bio-mass certified Percentage of plastic bags 67.8% customers declining 61.5% 60.4% 63.4% plastic bags 67.5% 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Reduction in the number of 2,294.57 plastic bags million reduction TOPICS Aeon My Bag Design 1,738.9 1,804.44 Contest 2,408.25 1,661.55 million reduction million reduction million reduction million reduction Aeon held the Aeon My Bag Design Contest in June, COthe Environment Month, 2 reduced 74,174 as part of the Bring Your Own Shopping Bag Campaign and collected designs under the theme of “nature that you want to leave to the future”. Among t-co2 around 3,900 designs submitted, three designs were awarded grand prizes (one from the elementary and junior high school student category Percentage of and two from the high school student and general customers 67.8%public category) afterdeclining careful 61.5% by60.4 consideration % 63.4 the judges. The% designs were featured on bags plastic My Bag products, which were sold in about 1,200 Aeon Group stores nationwide. 67. additional prize, the award winners were invited to an overseas tree-planting 5%As an Prize winners and judges tour 2010 hosted by2011 Aeon. 2012 2013 2014 For realization of a sustainable society, Aeon will continuously engage in various environmental conservation activities along with customers. Aeon Environmental and Social Report 2015 60 Key Issue 3 Better Use of Resources Reducing Waste by Collecting Resources in Stores Launching Recovery of Waste Paper and Plastic Bottles For recycling valuable resources, Aeon has collection bins for Linked with WAON drink cartons, food trays, aluminum cans, and PET bottles in Aeon has launched resource recovery (waste paper and plastic the stores. Drink cartons and aluminum cans are used as raw bottles) that provides WAON points to customers who take materials for TOPVALU brand products. Through these efforts, part in resource recovery with the aim of promoting resource Aeon is moving forward to the creation of a recycling society. recovery and increasing convenience for customers. In the delicatessen sections in the stores, 100% of used oil is We are promoting the initiative with a focus on stores collected and recycled for soaps, feed, and fertilizer. in municipalities where there are infrequent collections of recycling waste. As of July 31, 2015, the initiative had been introduced at a total of 15 stores, including 11 Aeon Retail Stores, 3 MaxValu Tokai stores, and 1 Daiei store and has been welcomed by customers. In introducing the initiative, we established a clear division of roles with recycling businesses to create a system that can carry out ongoing recovery. TOPVALU BEST PRICE Recycled Toilet TOPVALU Oil Guard Paper – Single An aluminum oil guard that prevents Recycled toilet paper that uses 100% soiling due to oil splashing around waste paper pulp. the gas cooktop. It is made using at least 80% aluminum remelted from A recycling station (waste paper and plastic bottle aluminum cans collected at stores. collection equipment) Collecting and Promoting Reuse of Clothing Each company in the Aeon Group is actively committed to collecting and reusing clothing. Aeon Retail Co., Ltd. has established a system for regularly Collection boxes placed in one of our stores trading in clothing in partnership with I:CO Japan, the Japanese subsidiary of SOEX, which is the world’s leading corporate Results for 2014 (total for 23 consolidated subsidiaries) group in textile recycling conducting apparel product recycling activities on a global scale. The fully-fledged initiative was Drink cartons Food trays launched in 2015. Traded in clothing is transported to I:CO’s approx. 138.19 million approx. 367.83 million partner plants and subsequently sorted at the plants of the 2013 (tons) 4,145t 2013 (tons) 2,574t company’s overseas partners. 70% of the clothing is reused as apparel with the remainder being recycled according to CO2 reduced: 2,073t-CO2 CO2 reduced: 16,221t-CO2 condition and application. Clothing being reused as apparel is sold in 64 countries worldwide, including Africa, South America, Aluminum cans PET bottles and Asia. approx. 271.36 million approx.138.23 million Moreover, Cox Company Limited collects and recycles used clothing. In addition to this, clothing and sundry goods 2013 (tons) 4,341t 2013 (tons) 8,708t shop SELF+SERVICE is working for fiber recycling in a proactive CO2 reduced: 37,339t-CO2 CO2 reduced: 31,351t-CO2 manner by selling products bearing the Ecomate mark, which ensures the commitment to fiber recycling, and by collecting Weight estimates: Drink carton (1000ml)=30g, Food tray=7g, all clothing items sold in stores (including shoes, hats and caps, Aluminum can (350ml)=16g, PET bottle=63g * CO2 reduction rate index (per 1kg of collected material): and other fiber products). Drink cartons : 0.50kgCO2, food trays: 6.3kgCO2, aluminum cans: 8.6kgCO2, PET bottles (material recycling): 3.6kgCO2 Source: Ministry of the Environment’s “Tools for Visualizing 3R Activities” 紙パック 食品トレイ 約 1 3,819 億 万本 約 3 6,783 億 万枚 回収量 4,145t 回収量 2,574t CO2削減量 2,073t-CO2 CO2削減量 16,221t-CO2 Flyer for trade in Clothing collection campaign (Aeon Retail) (SELF+SERVICE) アルミ缶 ペットボトル 約 2 7,136 億 万本 約 1 3,823 億 万本 回収量 4,341t 回収量 8,708t CO 削減量 37,339t-CO2 CO 削減量 31,351t-CO2 61 Aeon 2 Environmental and Social Report 2015 2 重量換算：紙パック （1000ml） 1本＝30g、食品トレイ1枚＝7g、 FY 2014 Results and Target of KPI FY 2014 Results and Target of KPI FY 20 Strengthening the Management System Percentage of Customers Declining Plastic Shopping Bags Number of Employees Completing Internal Training Course Electr (nationwide store average) to Improve Management of Waste Emissions 60.4％ 2011 Management 2011 System for Waste Emissions 2011 4FNJOBSQBSUJDJQBOUT 4VDDFTTGVMDBOEJEBUFT a Aeon holds internal training courses 63.4％ on a regular basis aimed 2012 2012 4FNJOBSQBSUJDJQBOUT &YBNJOFFT 4VDDFTTGVMDBOEJEBUFT at improving its management of waste disposal. Each year the 2012 Waste Management Training Course, 67.8％ which was developed 2013 2013 4FNJOBSQBSUJDJQBOUT &YBNJOFFT 4VDDFTTGVMDBOEJEBUFT together with an external specialist organization, is held for 2013 environmental managers and waste management leaders of More than 70% 2014 Group2014companies. 2014 Seminar participants total more than 300 people In fiscal 2014, 53 employees Stop received Free Plastictraining ShoppinginBags waste Seminar participants total 316 people stores increased 49 stores, it 2015 2015 Seminar participants: 53, Examinees: 30, disposal management. Of that became number, 30 satinatotal 1,392 stores certification 2015 Successful candidates: 30 exam in waste disposal management, 2016 2020 More than 80% which all of them passed. This result brought the cumulative total, since fiscal 2011, 2020 to 316 employees receiving the training and 193 receiving official waste disposal management certification. Continuing to FY 2014 training provide Results and Target will pave theofwayKPI to improvements in the FY 2014 Results and Target of KPI ags Group’s Number level of of waste management. Employees Completing Internal Training Course Electronic manifest introduction rate Meanwhile, to we provide combined Improve Management training, including of Waste Emissions testing, for working level staff with the aim for them to acquire 2011 4FNJOBSQBSUJDJQBOUT 4VDDFTTGVMDBOEJEBUFT the 2011 requisite skills and knowledge, such as waste manifest management4FNJOBSQBSUJDJQBOUT at each respective&YBNJOFFT company. 2012 4VDDFTTGVMDBOEJEBUFT 2012 Also, in order to make Manifest management more efficient Companies that were introduced into the 2014 2013 year-end: 12 and2013 precise, we are introducing 4FNJOBSQBSUJDJQBOUT the Electronic &YBNJOFFT Manifest* in 4VDDFTTGVMDBOEJEBUFT More than 95%: The Daiei, Inc., MAXVALU KANTO stages. As of May 31, 2015, the Electronic Manifest system had CO., LTD., MAXVALU NAGANO CO., LTD., SANYO 2014 MARUNAKA CO.,LTD., AEON BIG CO., LTD., ORIGIN been introduced at 13Seminar companies, including participants those total more than where it 300 people TOSHU CO., LTD., My Basket CO.,LTD 2014 95% or less: AEON Retail Co., Ltd., AEONBIKE CO., had been introduced at some offices. Among them, Aeon Big LTD., Maxvalu Chubu Co., Ltd., AEON MARKET Seminar participants total 316 people 2015 CO., LTD., AEON TOWN Co.,Ltd. Co., Ltd., which introduced Seminar the Electronic participants: 53,Manifest Examinees: July 2012, in30, 2015 Successful candidates: 30 achieved results including computerization of approximately 2016 50% rate of introduction 4,800 manifests in fiscal 2014, reduction of approximately 1,200 2020 man-hours in work required for management, and enhanced levels of management. In the future, we will continue our efforts with a target of introducing the Electronic Manifest at half of Group companies by fiscal 2016 by creating operational and educational tools as well as by sharing these kinds of success stories within the Group. * Electronic Manifest: a management form, issued when industrial waste is generated, that confirms that treatment has been carefully carried out. Previously, a ledger was used for this, which changed hands between the generator of the waste and the waste treatment company. Recently, however, information on these forms has been digitized and an electronic manifest has become common, with digital networks carrying the data. Initiatives Undertaken by Group Companies Aeon Food Supply Ltd. Maxvalu Nishinihon Co., Ltd. Reducing Food Waste and Promoting Reuse Regularly donating rice as a food bank activity Aeon Food Supply Ltd., which produces and processes perishables Maxvalu Nishinihon Co., Ltd. has been donating rice to Food Bank and prepared foods, is promoting the reduction of food waste Kansai, an authorized non-profit organization, since 2006 as food as well as its reuse as a resource. For example, the company has aid for people in need of food. In 2012, the company also started to achieved weight reductions of approximately 50% by dehydrating provide rice to Hiroshima City’s AIAINET. radish garnishes. In addition, waste generated is turned into animal In fiscal 2014, approximately 8.5 tons of rice was used for food feed and fertilizer by a designated resources-reutilizing business bank programs*. operator, which is reused by a supplier farm. * Food bank programs: programs to deliver food that is edible but has been discarded for various reasons to facilities and people in need of food. As a result of these initiatives, Aeon Food Supply has practically achieved a 99.9% reutilization rate for food waste. Aeon Environmental and Social Report 2015 62 Key Issue 4 Addressing social issues Management Approach Recognition of Challenges As more and more companies have multinational operations, the extent to which a company affects its stakeholders and society continues to grow, whiles impacts continue to increase. Amidst this, companies need to fulfill their responsibilities to society throughout the supply chain while facing off against myriad social issues, such as human rights, compliance, quality and labor practices. Aeon, which is aiming to become Asia’s pre-eminent retailer, too, is working via various activities to help resolve social issues through dialogue held with its diverse stakeholders. Aeon’s Approach Aeon engages in primarily four activities as key pillars of its efforts to address social issues. • Community Involvement Aeon gives back to local communities by improving community economic conditions and welfare through its business operations and contributing to a safer society. At the same time, Aeon is taking action to develop the human resources of the future by providing myriad programs for supporting growth at each life stage, from infants up to university students. Aeon continues to support the reconstruction of the Tohoku region following the Great East Japan Earthquake and the Project Aeon Joining Hands established between labor and management in 2012 encourages tree planting and volunteer work in the disaster-affected areas and also support in the form of new store openings in the region and sales promotion campaigns involving products made in Tohoku. Starting in fiscal 2015, earthquake reconstruction assistance has been added to our KPI and targets set up to fiscal 2021. • Fair Operating Practices Under the Aeon Supplier CoC (Code of Conduct) established in 2003, Aeon is working with its suppliers in Japan and other countries in order to build a sustainable supply chain. • Consumer Issues With customer safety and peace of mind a top priority, Aeon stands thoroughly committed to quality control of TOPVALU products and working on store designs that are safe and comfortable for customers. The Aeon Eco Project represents one of these measures and under the Protection Strategy we have set a target to create 100 disaster-prevention facilities in our stores nationwide by 2020 so that they can serve as a lifeline for the community. These next-generation stores known as Smart Aeon will feature their own cogeneration facilities to prepare for power outages and water service stoppages during a disaster. • Human Rights/Labor Practices Aeon is working to appoint more female managers and hire more people with disabilities as part of its efforts to promote diversity in the workplace. We are also actively providing opportunities for our Japanese and non-Japanese employees to interact and network with one another. Aeon is committed to building workplaces that are environmentally friendly and work-life balance initiatives so that employees can balance work and childcare needs. Future Initiatives Aeon plans on proactively expanding its business operations in Japan, China and ASEAN in the fields of retail, finance, real estate development, and services. The needs and expectations of stakeholders vary based on the business and region, so Aeon will seek to become a responsible retailer essential to the local community by identifying important issues and goals through dialogue with stakeholders. 63 Aeon Environmental and Social Report 2015 Progress of KPI of FY 2014 Main KPI FY 2014 Results Category Subcategory Scope Covered Target Summary of Actions/Initiatives Consolidated Submission rate of 20% or more Make Contributions to Local Communities FY 2014: Submission rate of Group companies of the store: 505 stores (overall greater than 20% at all stores 1) S trengthening communication in Japan and 32.4%) Yellow Receipt taking part in the campaign in stores overseas for General GMS: 365 stores (overall 51.9%) Campaign FY 2020: Submission rate of 30% 2) S trengthening communication Merchandising Supermarkets: 135 stores (overall Submission Rate or more in the GMS all stores utilizing media Store, Supermarket, 16.6%) Submission rate of 20% or more in 3) P roper management and Discount Store Discount stores: 5 stores (overall the SM/DS all stores businesses 12.8%) Consolidated Community Involvement Group companies Selling shochu and soda three • Development of handling Assortment of in Japan for General Food Artisan Products: 34 item types of using the material that planning of regional products regional products Merchandising Store (as of July 2015) was produced through the Food • Model building in PB and Supermarket Artisan Project businesses 1) S trengthening of basic and Develop the human resources of thorough management foundation of • Implementation of “Aeon Consolidated GMS Cheers Club start expression” Number of activities Conducted more than four times Stores that implemented more companies, and some in all stores by the Aeon Cheers the activities in all stores to carry than 4 activities: 328 (73.5% of all the future SM companies, in • S trengthening of skills training Club out the activities stores) Japan and overseas coordinator 2) S trengthening of the program in conjunction with business activities 3) Strengthening of publicity Tree planting in The Great East Japan Earthquake Regeneration of Promoting tree planting Consolidated Group 300,000 tree planting in 10 years 69,317 trees coastal forest in the in the affected areas in the affected areas companies in Japan of the 2012-2021 fiscal year (total 106,997 trees) affected area administrative cooperation Volunteer activities Reconstruction Initiatives Conducted two kinds of local Volunteer Activities volunteer activities and volunteer 300,000 employees participated in participation of Promotion of Consolidated Group 67,741 people (total 138,053 activities in each company and volunteer activities in 10 years of Group employees companies in Japan people) region that can support without the 2012-2021 fiscal year Group employees as disaster relief going to the northeast of the affected areas 1) H eld a group training on a Promote the Aeon Supplier Code of regular auditors all subject to each country 2) T oward the construction of audit system intended Construction of for Aeon secondfor the overseas countries sustainable supply party audit certified FY 2014: 8 in Japan, 30 overseas 8 in Japan, 30 overseas for development products, Conduct chain building audit Fair Business Practices auditors and promote the steady system development program with the cooperation of national office 3) B y nurturing a new auditor, to ensure the same number of auditors and the previous year 1) F ormulate an assortment Strengthening the Trading volume of the expansion plans of fair trade chocolate Social Value of Our Strengthening of international Fair Trade 4.2 tons procurement (planning TOPVALU 2) In January 2015, towards fair trade products certification cacao: 40 tons ratio 83.8% achieved) Valentine, and launched new Brand (10 times compared with FY 2012) products of TOPVALU fair trade chocolate Aeon Environmental and Social Report 2015 64 Key Issue 4 Addressing social issues Main KPI FY 2014 Results Category Subcategory Scope Covered Target Summary of Actions/Initiatives Conducted weekly regular FY 2020: 30 (apparel: 12; food: 8; Safe Food and Reliable meeting of the relevant living / HSC: 10) 103 (apparel: 25; food: 38; living / departments Number of * Need to compare with a new Consolidated Group HBC: 40) • S haring of goods complaints, to TOPVALU Products indicator due to the increase companies in Japan * The increase due to the confirm the failure of the product. Products Removed due to in the number of TOPVALU and overseas expansion of TOPVALU In addition, we conducted a Serious Incident products Example) Impact on products study of the improvement points sales from removal of TOPVALU • T o determine the goods products ÷ TOPVALU sales removed by the need Consolidated In order to reduce the enormous Store Safety and Group companies damage during the earthquake, Number of stores reinforced Safety and Security in Japan for General and implementation ceiling of against earthquakes Conducted completed in 132 Infrastructure Merchandising steadying, fall prevention of hot Security FY 2013: Steadily complete work stores in FY 2014 Development Store, Supermarket, and cold water pipe or the like, at 270 applicable stores and Discount Store captive of smoke vent duct, a nonbusinesses combustible sheet of wall Implementation temporary Serving as a form of life Installed in a total of 16 stores, shelter in the event of a disaster, Consolidated group at AEON Town Kamaishi, AEON activity base of relief and rescue, companies in Japan style infrastructure The number of local FY 2020: Local temporary shelters Mall Tendo such as new 8 stores towards the implementation of for the General temporary shelters at 100 of its stores across Japan and AEON Omiya and AEON the provision of daily necessities, Consumer Issues Merchandising Store Sagamihara store, etc. existing 8 energy security measures to be [Protection Strategy] business stores (total 21 stores). able to open the food department in the event of a disaster Analyzes the complaint content System of Dialog with Customers and trend of customer feedback, Number of Number of service complaints Consolidated Group Number of service complaints: it is possible to carry out the Complaints and FY2020: 2,420 companies in Japan 6,895 report and share to the relevant Compliments Number of compliments and overseas Number of compliments: 1,900 departments, review of measures Received FY2020: 2,900 to prevent recurrence, as well as implementing the corresponding In weekly regular meeting by Number of Products Consolidated Group the relevant departments, use of Developed / companies in Japan FY 2020: 180 121 the Product improvement and Improved based on and overseas development share the voice of Customer Feedback our customers 1) In order to make the Providing Products to strengthening of healthconscious products as a whole FY 2015: Product development About 300 products sold in TOPVALU, and astringent old Consolidated Group Support Our Customers’ Health care efforts plans and product development TOPVALU under the concept TOPVALU healthy eye brand of companies in Japan in products in line with the concept of “Health of “eliminate”, “reduce” and products in the TOPVALU and overseas & Wellness” “supplement” 2) F or food of TOPVALU, switch Healthy Life to the display at the surface so that the display of nutritional components at a glance 1) B uilding a diversity promotion system to group 65 companies 2) F our times a year, held to promote responsible leaders Consolidated Group Female Manager FY 2016: 30% 18.2%, 4,365 people (as of April 1, meeting to share information companies in Japan Ratio FY 2020: 50% 2015) and training between each and overseas company implementation 3) H eld a diversity award, which recognizes the company's efforts Promote Diversity 1) Implementation of group Human Rights/Labor Practices public offering for young Group International Consolidated Group FY 2016: Total 600 employees overseas dispatch and overseas People to People Total 168 people subsidiaries FY 2020: Total 1,500 employees companies Exchange Programs 2) Centralized management of human resources information 1) R  egularly carry out progress management of the employment situation Employment Consolidated Group FY 2020: 3.0% more than, 10,000 5,279 employees (as of June 1, 2) C  hallenges and measures in of People with subsidiaries employees 2015) the employment of people Disabilities with disabilities to share in the Group companies, and lead to adoption and fixing Promote initiatives under the Reporting and verification of Labor Practices “General Business Action Plan” each company's acquisition Creating Pleasant, for Japan's Act for Measures to 13 companies certified to use Consolidated Group situation and efforts in the Group Comfortable Support the Development of the the Kurumin logo (as of April companies in Japan companies Human Resources Workplaces Next Generation (expand number 2015) Director meeting and diversity of companies certified to use the promotion personnel meeting Kurumin logo) 65 Aeon Environmental and Social Report 2015 FY 2014 Results and Target of KPI FY 20 Community Involvement Making Contributions to Local Communities Yellow Receipt Campaign Submission Rate Assor 38.1% of stores had submission rate of greater than 20% 2011 Aeon Happy Yellow Receipt Campaign 2014 37.4% of stores had submission rate of greater than 20% Countless volunteer organizations* throughout local 2012 (GMS 66.9%, SM 16.6%, DS 8.3%) communities in Japan are in need of support. At the same time, 2015 35.29% of stores had submission rate of greater than 20% (GMS: 64.06% / Supermarkets: 16.09% / Discount stores: 8.11%) countless Aeon customers would like to support organizations 2013 devoted to their local communities. Aeon, as a local community 2020 Submission rate of greater than 20% at all stores taking part in the campaign member, launched the Aeon Happy Yellow Receipt Campaign 2014 to link customers and volunteer organizations. Customers 32.4% of stores had submission rate of greater than 20% participate in the Campaign simply by taking the yellow (GMS: 51.9% / Supermarkets: 16.6% / Discount stores: 12.8%) 2015 receipts they receive when making purchases on “Aeon Day,” Submission rate of 30% or more in the GMS all stores 2020 Submission rate of 20% or more in the SM/DS all stores the 11th of every month, and placing them in a box labeled with the name of an organization or a particular activity. Aeon then contributes goods accordingly at a value of 1% of the total amount of the receipts. Clean & Green Activities In fiscal 2014, the Campaign had expanded to include 23 Aeon is actively involved in community landscaping projects companies and 1,572 stores, and we contributed goods worth around its stores. Clean & Green Activities, conducted since approximately 277.90 million yen to a total of around 23,600 1991, consist of employees volunteering to clean up parks and organizations. Of participating stores, 32.4% had a submission rivers around stores and areas surrounding public facilities. rate of at least 20%, a target which has been established as a These activities have been conducted every month on the KPI. 11th, Aeon Day, since 2001 at all General Merchandise Stores Since the Campaign’s inception in 2001, 218,600 and supermarkets as well as head office and other business organizations have received support totaling around 2,494.35 offices. million yen. From fiscal 2014, as part of the Clean & Green Activities we We encourage our customers to participate in the Aeon began collecting garbage and Happy Yellow Receipt Campaign. Among other efforts, we offer removing weeds from the area volunteer organizations a chance to come into stores to talk where trees were planted for about their activities. We plan to actively pursue new initiatives the Aeon Hometown Forests that will allow participation by as many of our customers as Program. possible. Cleaning up around a store * Volunteer organizations’ activities should fall under one of the following five categories. 1. Activities to promote welfare Supporting Local Traditional Events 2. Activities to promote environmental preservation and environmental education The Aeon 1% Club Foundation engages in activities in support 3. Activities to promote urban development 4. Activities to advance arts and culture of building more vibrant local communities through assistance 5. Activities to enhance the health and safety of children provided for the hosting of local festivals and traditional events. Started in 2007, these activities have now supported a total of 369 festivals and traditional events held across Japan, helping How Aeon Happy Yellow Receipt Campaign works to create more vibrant communities in the process. In FY 2014, the Aeon 1% Club Foundation supported festivals and local events in 33 locations throughout Japan, Cumulative total of including the Aomori Nebuta Festival, one of the most famous ¥2,494.35 million summer festivals in the Tohoku region, as well as the Akita in goods donated as of Kanto Festival, and Morioka Sansa Odori Festival, illustrating February 2015 Aeon’s commitment to being a contributing member of the local community for many generations to come. AEON Volunteer Customers organizations Place yellow receipts Stores calculate the Receive goods worth 1% of in the box for the total value of receipts the total value of receipts organization they wish for each organization contributed to the cause to support of their choice Aomori Nebuta Festival Yosakoi Festival in Kochi prefecture 2001年〜2015年2月までの累計で 24億9,435万円 相当の品物を贈呈 AEON Aeon Environmental and Social Report 2015 66 お客さま ボランティア 団体 Key Issue 4 Addressing social issues Issuing Local WAON Cards Concluding Comprehensive Cooperation WAON is a system of e-money pre-paid cards available at over Agreements 213,000 participating stores throughout Japan. In the case of Aeon has entered cooperation agreements with local Aeon’s Local WAON cards, a part of the proceeds from sales governments to effectively combine respective resources goes to social contributions for communities.* for expanding sales of local products, disaster preparedness, The social contributions that result from Local WAON card public health, social welfare, and environmental conservation, use are wide-ranging, and include community environment and, through Local WAON cards, to stimulate commerce and conservation efforts, promotion of tourism and sports, tourism. The first Agreement was concluded in June 2010 with preservation of cultural assets, and animal welfare. As of the the Osaka Prefectural government. At the end of February end of April 2015, there are 100 different Local WAON card 2015, we had agreements with 44 prefectural governments programs featuring wonderful local color. The contributions to and 15 government-ordinance-designated cities. local communities for fiscal 2014 topped 243 million yen, and Through these agreements, we are, providing emergency the aggregate amount comes to 597 million yen. supplies and emergency shelters for times of disaster, holding A total of over 50 million cards (as of May 31, 2015) had local product fairs and promoting local tourism through our been issued since the start of the WAON system in April 2007, stores, and working with and the use of WAON cards continues to spread. Aeon can local governments to plan offer customers the convenience of an e-money pre-paid card and market boxed lunches while at the same time actively contributing to the support of made with local foods. In this local communities. way, we are also helping to * with some exceptions stimulate local communities and improve daily life services. Types of Local WAON Cards Signing ceremony (Asahikawa City) As of February 2015 100 Supporting the revitalization of local industries different types of local WAON and preservation of traditional food culture Aeon actively contributes to local economies and the preservation of local traditions. Direct Business Dealings with Fishery Cooperatives Aeon has done business directly with fishery cooperatives since 2008 in an effort to raise customer satisfaction by providing even fresher fish while at the same time helping maintain cultural practices associated with consuming fish through a sustainable fishing industry. As of February 2014, we directly deal with five fishery cooperatives*. Sample of Local WAON cards issued in fiscal 2014 From July 2013, we started a program to sell fish caught early in the morning by the afternoon of the same day. Through this initiative we hope to encourage more families to enjoy fresh fish. We also began an initiative in which we will freeze Hakodate WAON Sukiyanen Osaka WAON freshly caught seasonal fish in Part of the proceeds is used to fund Part of the proceeds is donated to childcare assistance programs in support initiatives sponsored by Osaka order to ensure consumers can Hakodate City. City for supporting civic activities to enjoy them during other times of make the city more vibrant. All fish caught by this fishing the year. vessel is purchased by Aeon Through dialogue with the National Federation of Fisheries Cooperatives Associations Aeon intends to continue conducting initiatives that benefit our customers, and to help to solve problems in marine products. * JF Shimane, JF Yamagata, JF Hiroshima, JF Ishikawa, JF Katase-Enoshima. Additionally, we engage in indirect business transactions with Starting a program to sell fish JF Ishikawa and JF Katase-Enoshima as well. caught early in the morning by the afternoon of the same day 67 Aeon Environmental and Social Report 2015 Promoting Food Artisan Project Aeon Welfare Fund Supporting Disabled Persons Aeon has conducted the Food Artisan Project since 2001 with The Aeon Welfare Fund was established in 1977 to promote many producers across the country dedicated to preserving the welfare of persons with disabilities and to support their local flavors. The project seeks to preserve and build local independent participation in society. Aeon has carried out culinary cultures as brands. Everyone involved pools their various projects, focusing on donating special vehicles and wisdom and works to publicize the ingredients and traditional contributing to volunteer activities, through 50-yen monthly techniques that support exceptional local culinary cultures in employee contributions matched by the employer. As of the an effort to protect, preserve and create new brands. end of February 2015, 59,000 Aeon employees are participating As of July 2015, food artisan activities have in this program. covered 24 prefectures and 34 dishes, whose In fiscal 2014, a total of nine of these special vehicles were unique local flavors are being delivered to the donated to nearby regional welfare facilities for those with dinner tables of people across Japan. disabilities as we launched new stores in Iwate, Yamagata, Ibaraki, Shiga, Kyoto, Wakayama, Okayama, and Okinawa prefectures. This brings the total number of donated special vehicles to 51 since the inception of the Welfare Fund. In addition, our volunteer activities included roughly 1,000 visits to welfare facilities, with events such as Christmas parties, in fiscal 2014. A total of around 10,800 facilities have been visited so far. White Okra (Yamaguchi Prefecture) Mikasa Melon (Hokkaido) White okra has been grown by local Mikasa Melon is a brand of red-fleshed producers in the Misumi district of melon produced in Mikasa City, Nagato City in Yamaguchi Prefecture Hokkaido. It is known for its juicy flesh, for close to 60 years. It is known for its creamy texture and sweet fragrance. fruity texture and robustness stickiness. FY 2014 Results and Target of KPI FY 2014 Donation Results of a welfare and(Aeon vehicle KPI Target ofHalloween party held at a welfare FY 20 Supercenter Rikuzentakata Store) facility (MAXVALU Hitachioota Store) Assortment of regional products Number of activities by the Aeon Cheers Club 被災 Signing 2011 Disaster Prevention Agreements 2014 Food Artisan Products: 34 item (as of July 2015) Aeon strives to ensure that employees working at our stores 2014 constantly 2012 act as members of the community. The same 2015 t%FWFMPQNFOUPGIBOEMJOHQMBOOJOHPGSFHJPOBMQSPEVDUT applies during natural disasters. We continue to sign disaster 2015 1%) t.PEFMCVJMEJOHJO1# Stores that implemented more than 4 activities: 334 (77.0% of all stores) prevention 2013 agreements with local authorities throughout 2021 2020 Japan, pledging cooperation and support in times the event of an in all Conducted more than four the activities 2014 emergency in an effortalltostores to carry out the activities be of use to people in the local 20% community. Stores that implemented more than 4 activities: s: 12.8%) Holding Local Product Appreciation Days to Promote Local As of February 28, 2015, 328 (73.5% 773 of all stores) Aeon Group stores and 2015 Production for Local Consumption business offices have signed disaster prevention agreements es 2020 Faced with sharply declining and aging population, Japan with of 520that a totalStores implemented more than 4 activities: 100% local governments and assist with local faces the urgent task of regional revitalization that creates disaster prevention activities, including providing emergency independent and sustainable communities utilizing the unique supplies in the event of a disaster, providing car parks for use as characteristics of each. Given growing concerns over local evacuation points and organizing joint emergency drills. sustainability, more and more customers prefer to purchase locally made products because they want to give back to the communities in which they live by buying locally. Aeon, recognizing this social issue and need, launched an initiative called Local Product Appreciation Day in October 2014 in order to promote local production for local consumption. With the help of local producers, Aeon provides customers a selection of local favorites that include familiar items, freshly harvested produce and seasonal seafood Local Product Appreciation Day is now held every month at 2,000 Aeon Group stores across Japan. Aeon Environmental and Social Report 2015 68 Key Issue 4 Addressing social issues Introducing Balloon Shelters Aeon has promoted installation of “balloon shelters”—large Community Involvement tents for use in emergency evacuations—since 2004 to be Develop the Human Resources of the Future ready in the event of an earthquake or other major natural disaster. The tents have Aeon Cheers Club been placed at a total of The Aeon Cheers Club provides hands-on opportunities for first 29 locations, primarily through ninth-grade students to learn about the environment. shopping centers around Young people living near Aeon stores can come together the country (as of February once a month or once in two months to participate in Aeon 28, 2015). The tents are Cheers Club environmental activities with the support of store lightweight and easy to employees. carry, so those stored A balloon shelter The theme for fiscal 2014 was “The sun and nature.” Around Balloon shelters can be easily inflated with close by can be brought a special blower and be ready for use in 430 clubs and around 7,600 students from all over Japan to locations affected by around 40 minutes. They come two to a participated in the activities. In July 2014, the Aeon Cheers set and one set has room for around 100 disasters. people to lay down Club National Meetings were held in Okinawa and Hokkaido. A total of 50 clubs, representing the top clubs selected at Supporting Disaster Recovery regional meetings, and 240 awardees gathered, with each club The Aeon 1% Club Foundation carries out charitable activities reporting on learning outcomes for the year and participating at stores and presents disaster relief assistance money to areas in nature experience programs. in need following major natural disasters, supporting people In fiscal 2015, we will be working on activities under the affected by tragedy and providing hope for a speedy recovery. theme “Plants.” The Aeon 1% Club Foundation also provides a matching donation in the amount that is collected to boost the overall amount donated to these communities in need. In FY 2014, disaster relief assistance money was collected at 2,300 locations throughout Japan to benefit the areas of Hiroshima City affected by torrential rains that hit Hiroshima Prefecture in August 2014. Emergency disaster relief assistance money was collected at Presentation of the learning outcome Study on the next-generation solar around 7,000 locations across Japan to support those affected at the National Event battery by the major earthquake that ravaged Nepal in April 2015. Given FY 2014 Resultsneed the urgent and ofTarget of KPI emergency disaster relief assistance, FY 2014 Results and Target of KPI FY 20 assistance money was donated. Assortment * Please see page 74of forregional the amountproducts of funds raised. Number of activities by the Aeon Cheers Club 被災 2011 2014 Food Artisan Products: 34 item (as of July 2015) 2014 2012 2015 t%FWFMPQNFOUPGIBOEMJOHQMBOOJOHPGSFHJPOBMQSPEVDUT 2015 1%) t.PEFMCVJMEJOHJO1# Stores that implemented more than 4 activities: 334 (77.0% of all stores) 2013 2021 2020 all Conducted more than four times the activities in all stores to carry out the activities Presenting disaster relief assistance Accepting donations 2014 money 20% Stores that implemented more than 4 activities: s: 12.8%) 328 (73.5% of all stores) 2015 es 2020 Stores that implemented more than 4 activities: 100% 69 Aeon Environmental and Social Report 2015 Held Biodiversity Training Program on Yakushima for Agricultural Eco-experience Project for elementary and Winners of the Environmental Essay Contest junior high school students Aeon held the Junior High School Student Environmental Essay Since 2012, Aeon has held the Agricultural Eco-experience Contest and invited the winners to attend a training program Project for children who are members of Aeon Cheers Clubs. As about environmental issues and nature. Training programs part of the project, children are given the opportunity to visit have been held in Germany, home to advanced environmental ‘TOPVALU Gurinai’ production sites throughout Japan where initiatives, and Tasmania Island in Australia, home to vibrant they learn about harvesting and packaging fresh vegetables, nature. among other farm related experiences. Through these In FY 2014, the training program was held on Yakushima, experiences, children are able to learn about environmentally a World Heritage Site located in Kagoshima Prefecture. A total friendly ways to grow delicious and safe vegetables in a fun of 34 contest winners were joined by four junior high school and exciting environment. At the end of fiscal 2014, total of students selected to attend from those taking part in Aeon 3,268 students have participated the project in 70 production Cheers Club activities in Malaysia. The program taught the lands. children about biodiversity through hands on experience with In fiscal 2014, 1,364 children from Aeon Cheers Clubs the natural surroundings, which include Japanese cedar trees representing 80 stores across Japan took part in the 33 sessions that are more than 1,000 years old and primordial old growth held at 24 production sites. forest. In fiscal 2015, we will In FY 2015, the Junior High School Student Environmental continue to offer this Essay Contest will be held project and expand the from July to September and number of production sites the biodiversity training visited. program is scheduled to take place again on Yakushima in Experience harvesting of taros April 2016. Biodiversity training tour at Yakushima Aeon’s educational initiatives for the next generation We provide a host of programs to support the learning development of youth in various life stages, from infants to university students. Aeon Sukusuku Aeon Cheers Club Teenage Ambassadors Aeon Scholarship Asian Students Laboratory ▶ page 69 Program Programy Environment Platform ▶ page 71 ▶ page 71 ▶ page 72 ▶ page 73 Primary school Junior high High School University Babies school students students Students Students Rice Paddy Activities Aeon eco-1 Grand Prix ▶ page 72 Asia Youth Leaders for Elementary Earth-friendly ▶ page 72 School Students Essay/Activity ▶ page 71 Report Contest ▶ page 71 Aeon Environmental and Social Report 2015 70 Key Issue 4 Addressing social issues Aeon Sukusuku Laboratory “Earth-friendly Essay/Activity Report Contest” Aeon has been organizing the Aeon Sukusuku Laboratory The Aeon Environmental Foundation, desiring to give children yearly at Aeon shopping centers since 2007. This is directed to a chance to learn about the future of the global environment, families raising children and includes seminars on childcare led implements the “Earth-friendly Essay/Activity Report Contest”. by experts in the field, as well as singing of Japanese nursery In fiscal 2014, we solicited essays and other works on the rhymes and songs, with children and parents enjoying a theme of “What each individual can do for the environment.” meaningful chance to sing together. We received 21,470 entries, including essays, activity reports, In fiscal 2014, Aeon Sukusuku Laboratory was held in four and posters on environmental protection. After stringent cities across Japan. A total of 789 attended the four sessions, review by the experts in the board of review, 139 entrants including 490 adults and 299 children. As of February 28, 2015, were awarded. Additionally, from the schools that submitted the Aeon Sukusuku Laboratory had been held a cumulative ten or more entries, Suita total of 38 times. Municipal Minami Yamada In fiscal 2015, we plan on holding four sessions nationwide. Elementary School, Osaka prefecture was recognized with the Aeon Environmental Foundation Prize (Schools Award). Prize winners Teenage Ambassadors Program Child-raising Seminar by Prof. Katsumi Ms. Saori Yuki and Ms. Sachiko Yasuda High school students from Japan and other countries learn Tokuda, professor of the Faculty of singing a nursery rhyme about global perspectives and diverse values by interacting Medicine, University of Tsukuba with each other and through ambassador activities, classes at high schools and homestays in the Teenage Ambassadors Rice Paddy Activities for Elementary School Students program. This program has been ongoing since the Aeon 1% Aeon promotes Rice Paddy Activities for Elementary School Club was established and up to fiscal 2014, 1,852 high school Students hoping to teach children about nature’s blessings students from 18 countries, including Japan, had participated. and the importance of food. This is an effort undertaken with In recent years, a total of three programs have been held local agricultural cooperatives and NPOs to teach children annually, comprising two for ASEAN countries and one for about food and sustenance by letting them experience the China. production process, from planting through harvest, and, In fiscal 2014, high school students from the Philippines, ultimately, the sale of rice at a retail store. Indonesia and China and Japan participated. In Shiga prefecture, students also learn the importance In fiscal 2015, we plan to conduct mutual exchanges with of protecting and raising living creatures, by raising juvenile students in Laos, Cambodia and China. nigorobuna fish (Lake Biwa’s endemic crucian carp) in rice paddies. Japan The Philippines Teenage Ambassadors In July 2014, 20 high school students from Sendai City, Miyagi Prefecture traveled to the Philippines and met with students from the University of the Philippines Integrated School in Manila. In September 2014 the same high school students from the Philippines came to Japan to reunite and deepen their exchange with one another. The Aeon 1% Club Foundation has continued to provide Rice planting experience (Akamatsu Observation of nigorobuna fish (Hayami disaster relief assistance and donations to the Philippines, Elementary School, Saga prefecture) Elementary School, Shiga Prefecture) which has been struck by a number of natural disasters. This has served as the impetus behind the creation of the Teenage Ambassadors Program for high school students from the Philippines that was established at the request of the Embassy of the Philippines in Japan. Students from the Philippines attend class in Japan Rice harvesting experience (Kyowa Rice retail marketing experience Elementary School, Akita prefecture) (Shibutami Elementary School, Iwate prefecture) 71 Aeon Environmental and Social Report 2015 Japan Indonesia Teenage Ambassadors In January 2015, 20 high school students of SMA LABSCHOOL JAKARTA, Indonesia traveled to Japan where they met with high school students in Yokkaichi City, Mie Prefecture. Later in March 2015 the same high school students from Yokkaichi City visited their counterparts in Indonesia to deepen their Prime Minister’s Award, Education Prime Minister’s Award, Research friendship. and Awareness Category, Aomori and Special Topics Category, Iwate This marked the third time Prefectural Nakui Agricultural High Prefectural Tono Ryokuho High School, School, “Environment purification “Research and spread of Japanese that the Teenage Ambassador activities through plants” paper using recycled hop” program was held with high school students from Both countries of high school students Indonesia. that show the completed batik Aeon Scholarship Program The Aeon Scholarship program was established in 2006 to Japan China Teenage Ambassadors provide financial support to university students, leaders of the This program was originally part of the Teenage Ambassador next generation, in Asian countries. program, but branched off into its standalone exchange In fiscal 2014, we continued offering the Scholarship program called the Japan-China High School Student Exchange Program in Japan, China, Thailand, Vietnam, Indonesia and Program since 2010 after the People’s Government of Beijing Cambodia, while newly adding two universities in Myanmar. Municipality raved about the success of the program in 2009. Students that received this scholarship have gone on In fiscal 2014, 60 high schools students from each country to work in specialized fields after graduation as a bridge participated. The students deepened mutual understanding between Japan and their home country. Aeon is committed to through a courtesy call to continually assisting the development of human resources that the embassy and cultural will contribute to the future development of Asia. experiences. A total of 721 Grants 2006-2014 high school students had country universities grantees participated in this program Japan 14 522 * as of the end of FY 2014. China 8 2,730 Students from Japan experience Thailand 2 112 homestay in China Vietnam 4 390 Indonesia 2 25 Aeon eco-1 Grand Prix Ceremony for presenting scholarship certificates at the National University Cambodia 2 18 With the goal of raising environmental consciousness of Management (Phnom Penh, through providing high school students who have engaged Cambodia) Myanmar 2 40 in daily environmental activities with a forum to report their Total: 3,837 achievements, and an opportunity to connect with other * Privately funded exchange students from Asian countries schools, Aeon instituted the Aeon eco-1 Grand Prix. In fiscal 2013, the second year of the Grand Prix, there were Asia Youth Leaders 123 submissions from 109 schools, with 14 schools selected to Aeon is carrying out the Asia Youth Leaders program where move on to the final screening session. Particularly excellent high school and university students in countries across Asia eco activities were presented with various awards, in addition discuss regional issues from a local perspective issues, make to the Grand Prix (Prime Minister’s Award). proposals to the governments for solving the issues, and learn In addition, we newly added “Eco-Ring’s Prize”, which diversity of values through discussions. targets eco-activities that were initiated In fiscal 2014, students from Indonesia, Japan and Vietnam based on previous Aeon Eco-1 Grand gathered in Hanoi and discussed about air pollution. Prix projects as well as those that In the high school students section, awareness campaign to became a model for other schools. improve air pollution was proposed, and specific regulations In fiscal 2015, we will establish and policies for the improvement was suggested in the “Environmental Ring” school registration university students section. During the processes leading up to system to promote cooperation of their proposal, they observed the situation about air pollution, high schools all over the country and inspected air pollution measuring facility, held hearings to local exchange of information. citizens, and visited public transportation institution. Promotional poster Through the Asia Youth Leaders program, it is hoped that the participants will independently act to solve the real issues studied and discussed, and that the interaction will lead young people in countries facing a host of challenges accompanying economic development to cooperate to build fruitful Aeon Environmental and Social Report 2015 72 Key Issue 4 Addressing social issues relationships. School Construction Support Project This program was initiated in fiscal 2010 under the name In order to respond to children who wish to go to school, Aeon “ASEAN University Students Environmental Forum,” and total 1% Club Foundation has been working on school construction of 417 students from six countries support project in Asian countries, which lack educational have participated to this date. For facilities. With the cooperation from customers, we have fiscal 2015, the program will be held helped construct at total of 379 schools in Cambodia, Nepal, in Tianjin, China with the theme of Laos, Vietnam and Myanmar by the end of March 2015. “Trash problems.” In Myanmar, three-year support program has begun in 2012 with the partnership of the Japan Committee for UNICEF. By the end of March 2015, 22 schools were opened and around 5,000 children are learning there. Aeon 1% Club Foundation have added the same amount of the donations collected through “Myanmar School Construction Support Project” in 2014, and sent the added amount to the Japan Committee for UNICEF. At the opening ceremony held in March 2015 in High school students investigating the Students measuring concentration of contents of exhaust emissions from PM2.5 in Hanoi Yangon Region, local children and some guests invited from motorbikes Japan shared the joy of opening together. Furthermore, in fiscal 2014, the new project in cooperation The Asian Students Environment Platform with Myanmar government has begun and a new school was The Asian Students Environment opened in Ayeyarwady Region. Platform has been held since fiscal In FY 2015, plans call for the construction of three schools 2012, following the 2011 United in the Ayeyarwady district under a partnership with the Nations Decade on Biodiversity. Government of Myanmar. The objective of this forum is to develop human resources with a global perspective who will be active in the field of the environment. University students from across Asia gather to exchange views on biodiversity while learning about differences in the natural environment, history, culture and values of each others’ countries. In fiscal 2014, the third forum, students of Tsinghua New schoolhouse (Aeon PADAUK Children studying in the new University (China), Waseda University (Japan), Korea University School, Yangon Region) schoolhouse (South Korea), University of Malaya (Malaysia) and Vietnam National University, Hanoi participated in the platform held Aeon and UNICEF Safe Water Campaign in China. Under the theme “Water-Human,” 80 students from In some areas of Cambodia and Laos, an insufficient number of five countries learned about biodiversity through fieldworks in wells and poor water infrastructure means that children have the marshland, desert and the World Heritage site, Dujiangyan to spend valuable time collecting water, and their attendance Irrigation System, and presented the results. Also, they at school suffers. From 2010, we have been carrying out the maintained the trees planted at the Great Wall during 1998 Aeon and UNICEF Safe Water Campaign in order to support -2009 by Aeon Environmental Foundation. the health and education of children by building water supply In fiscal 2015, the platform infrastructure. is scheduled to be held in In FY 2014, a total of 69.78 million yen representing Vietnam, with participation donations from customers, donations from the Aeon 1% Club by students from Royal Foundation, and from 5 yen donations on the sale of each University of Phnom Penh in 500ml bottle of TOPVALU Natural Mineral Water purchased Cambodia, under the theme during the campaign period was donated to fund the activities of “Biodiversity and Human.” Visit to Tianjin Planning Exhibition Hall, of the Japan Committee for UNICEF. This donation ensured China that some 240,000 people in traditional recipient countries Cambodia and Laos as well as Myanmar, where activities began in FY 2014, have access to safe drinking water. By reducing the labor needed to source water from wells, many children in these three countries are now able to attend school. In FY 2015, this same campaign will be held from September 12 to October 25. 73 Aeon Environmental and Social Report 2015 Initiatives Undertaken by Group Companies AEON Fantasy Co., Ltd. Promote activities to support children in Japan and overseas AEON Fantasy Co., Ltd. invited to shop the children of social welfare facilities, has implemented the visit activities to social welfare facilities by the character, LARA and Io-kun. Children enjoying the availability of This activity, Japan not only has been implemented in safe water overseas subsidiaries, activity number of times of fiscal 2014 is shown in the table below. PET Bottle Cap Collection Campaign In addition, in Malaysia of overseas subsidiaries, we have the Since 2008, Aeon has been collecting PET bottle caps from our sales proceeds of 100% equivalent of the target playground customers. The caps, as recyclable resources, are sold for cash equipment every year March 21 to implement the Lara & Friends fundraising to donate that is in turn contributed to three international organizations*1 to facilities such as orphanages. that support children in Asia´s developing countries. In China, as a response to the In fiscal 2014, 6,324,053 yen from 527.13 million*2 bottle Yunnan earthquake damage, it caps was donated to these organizations. The funds will was donated to the Red Cross provide vaccines, nutritious food, and books to children in Asia. 14,550 yuan (about 300,000 yen). *1 The three international organizations are : Plan Japan Save the Children Japan Number of times of Invitation event and Visit to Japan Committee Vaccines for the World´s Children welfare facility *2 Caps collected from August 21, 2013 through February 28, 2015. (Changed the donation cycle in accordance with the fiscal year) Japan China Malaysia Thailand Invitation event 207 38 47 9 Visit to welfare facility — 22 222* — * 204 times, it is the participation in the kindergarten graduate ceremony. Nutritious food for Children receiving Vaccination to children of children in Vietnam training on handling of Akha people in Laos © Save the Children Japan library books © JCV, all rights reserved © Plan Japan Fundraising Activities (FY 2014) Number of participating Funds raised from Activity Activity period Aeon 1% Club Contributions Total Amount Donees stores and locations customers and employees The AEON and UNICEF April 5 The Japan Committee 7,000 ¥33,263,976 ¥36,515,096 ¥69,779,082 Safe Water Campaign June 8 for UNICEF Hiroshima landslide August 21 *1 Hiroshima city 2,300 ¥49,579,181 ¥50,420,819 ¥100,000,000 disaster relief fund-raising September 7 government Donation to the school September 13 The Japan Committee 9,500 ¥37,828,805 ¥37,828,805 ¥75,657,610 establishment support in Myanmar November 16 for UNICEF June 20 24-Hour Television 24-hour television 11,305 ¥296,154,623 — ¥296,154,623 September 7 Charity Committee Total ¥416,826,585 *2 ¥124,764,720 ¥541,591,315 *1 Amount plus 3,251,120 yen sales of TOPVALU natural mineral water *2 The amount of the combined fund-raising of customers, and profits of charity T-shirt that was sold in stores. Continuous Fundraising Activities Activity Activity period Funds raised from customers and employees Accumulated funds Donees The Central Community Red Feather Community Chest October 1 October 31 17,734,342 256,112,278 (FY 1983-2014) Chest of Japan Aeon Environmental and Social Report 2015 74 Key Issue 4 Addressing social issues Auditing Our Manufacturing Partners Fair Business Practices Aeon audits its manufacturing partners to make sure they are in full compliance with the requirements of the Aeon Supplier Code of Conduct (CoC). Audits include third-party audits Aeon Supplier Code of Conduct* carried out by professional auditing firms that objectively The products we deliver to customers are procured and evaluate conformity with standards, second-party audits manufactured around the world and made after undergoing performed by Aeon auditors who monitor suppliers while various processes. As the distributor, Aeon recognizes that it encouraging dialogue, and first party audits carried out by has a responsibility through the entire supply chain, from raw suppliers to maintain and improve their management systems. materials to commercialization. Based on this, we are working Different levels of audits are performed based on the results closely with suppliers to ensure the safety and security of the and we provide various forms of support to improve the products we carry. management practices of suppliers. Based on the Aeon Supplier Code of Conduct (CoC) The Aeon Supplier CoC does not call for surprise audits formulated in 2003, we check to make sure that the employees because its primary goal is to foster trust and cooperation and workers of suppliers are working in sanitary workplaces with suppliers. Third-party audits are checked by an evaluation and that suppliers are in compliance with all relevant laws as organization different from the auditing firm to ensure the well as encourage improvements be made where necessary. objectivity and reliability of audit results. Currently, we require suppliers of TOPVALU and TOPVALU In terms of raw materials, currently we have yet to begin Collection products to comply with the CoC. confirmations using direct audits, but our manufacturing As of February 28, 2015, approximately 950 suppliers have partners have been asked to require and check that their submitted documentation verifying they are in compliance second and third tier suppliers comply with the CoC. In this with the CoC. We are continuously working with our suppliers manner, the final goal of the Aeon Supplier CoC is to build a to build a sustainable supply chain. supply chain where management practices and competencies * CoC：Code of Conduct are continually improved. Procedure of ‘Aeon CoC’ Certification and Audits Aeon Supplier Code of Conduct General Rules Check on Compliance Requirements General Rules Conform with legally stipulated social responsibility standards in Initial Implementation Implementation, Establishment of once in two years Good Management. Supplier Briefing countries where manufacturing and procurement takes place Third-Party Audit Second-Party Audit First-Party Audit Conform with national laws and regulations omprehensive Monitoring by 1. Child labor: Illegal child labor is prohibited External Audit Aeon Group Supplier by and External Management 2. Forced labor: Forced, prison and bonded labor are prohibited Audit Agency Auditors 3. Health and Safety: Provide safe, healthy workplaces 4. F  reedom of Association and Collective Bargaining: Respect employee rights Third-Party Audit For the first ‘third-party audit,’ an external audit agency checks over 350 5. D  iscrimination: Discrimination on the basis of place of origin or creed is prohibited universally recognized items and assesses anything differing from the standards. The evaluating agency points out items in need of correction and confirms 6. Disciplinary Practices: Cruel punishment of employees is prohibited improvements. In the process, there may be dozens of interactions to not only 7. Working Hours: Comply with laws related to working hours check results, but also to assure that proper management mechanisms are in 8. Wages and benefits: Comply with laws related to wages and benefits place. When corrections are finalized, a certificate of CoC compliance is issued. 9. M  anagement responsibility: Pledge compliance with the Aeon By the end of FY 2014, around 2,500 production plants had been certified as Supplier Code of Conduct meeting the standards. 10. Environment: Work to prevent environmental pollution and damage 11. Trade: Comply with local laws on commercial transactions Second-Party Audit 12. Certification, Audit, and Monitoring and Renewal: Accept Following authentication of CoC compliance, a certified Aeon auditor will do certification, auditing and monitoring under the Aeon Supplier Code of checks through factory visits once in two years or, in the case it is deemed Conduct necessary, once in six months, as a ‘second party audit.’ Around 3,300 domestic second-party audits were conducted between FY 2004 – FY 2014. 13. Ban on Gifts: Gift-giving between Aeon and suppliers is prohibited First-Party Audit Factories that have established good management through third and secondparty audits are given a check-list to carry out a ‘first-party audit’ themselves. Between FY 2009, when the system was instituted, and FY 2014, there have been 101 factories (up 49% YoY) doing ‘first-party audits’ and the level of supply chain management overall has been steadily improving. 75 Aeon Environmental and Social Report 2015 Second-Party Audits TOPICS Factories UNIDO, which thecarried out Government Factories and out which carried of Malaysia Factories which carried out Factories which carried out Third-Party Audits (by region) Third-Party Audits (by category) Second-Party Audits (by region) Second-Party Audits (by category) AEON(FYare 2014)jointly, to start the deployment (FY 2014) Factories which (FY 2014)carried out Factories which carried out (FY 2014) Factories w Third-Party Audits (by region) Third-Party Audits (by category) Second-Party of the3% CSR program 11% 2% 15% (FY 2014) (FY 2014) (F AEON and UNIDO from August 2014, has started the 3% 15% 11% deployment of CSR programs for the country's producers on 22% the basis of the support of the Malaysian government. This 43% 38% 39% is intended to be implemented as the second phase of the 22% “Sustainable 65% 38% 19% 59% 39% 39% Supplier Development Program”, which started 43% 22% from June 2013. 23% 39% Program to be implemented this time, become AEON TOPVALU Malaysia a center for the development of Aeon’s 23% Japan China Asia (excluding China) Other brand TOPVALU in the ASEAN region,Food Apparel to comply withLiving the/ HBC Japan China Asia (excluding China) Other Food Apparel Living / HBC United Nations Global Compact and SA8000, ISO14001, such Japan China The number of the Third-Party Audits enforcement factories The number of Asia the(excluding China) Other Second-Party Audit Food Apparel enforcement Living / HBC factories Japan China as the environment and global standard for social issues, 700 Overseas Japan 700number of the Third-Party Audits enforcement factories Overseas Japan small and medium-sized We will promote the program The The number 600 to take advantage of the tool that was developed for the 600 700 Overseas Japan 700 500 company. 500 600 600 By this initiative, we aim to strengthen and improve 400 400 500 500 problem-solving ability of small-scale suppliers in Malaysia 300 related to quality management and CSR, it is possible to 300 400 400 200 reach the level of the global level, trade expansion with the 200 300 300 100 world of retailers not only Aeon, to other countries such as 100 200 200 export increase is expected to lead to business opportunities 0 1000 100 for each supplier. 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 (FY) 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 (FY) 0 0 * The FY2004 2013 figure last year’s 2006in 2007 2005listed 2008 report 2009 incorrect. was2010 2011The2012 graph2013 has been(FY) above 2014 2004 2 drawn with the correct data. Audit results of FY 2014 year-end * The FY 2013 fig drawn with the Third-Party Audits First-Party Audits The number of the First-Party Audit enforcement factories 120 Overseas Japan Factories which carried out Factories which carried out The numberwhich Factories of thecarried First-Party Factories which out Audit enforcement carried out factories Third-Party Audits (by region) Third-Party Audits (by category) Second-Party 120 Audits (by region) Overseas Second-Party Japan Audits (by category) 100 (FY 2014) (FY 2014) (FY 2014) (FY 2014) 80 3% 100 2% 15% 11% 60 80 40 60 22% 43% 38% 39% 20 40 22% 65% 19% 59% 39% 0 20 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 (FY) 23% 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 (FY) Japan China Asia (excluding China) Other Food Apparel Living / HBC Japan China Asia (excluding China) Other Food Apparel Living / HBC The number of the Third-Party Audits enforcement factories The number of the Second-Party Audit enforcement factories 700 Overseas Japan 700 Overseas Japan 600 600 500 500 400 400 300 300 200 200 100 100 0 0 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 (FY) 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 (FY) * The FY 2013 figure listed in last year’s report was incorrect. The graph above has been drawn with the correct data. The number of the First-Party Audit enforcement factories 120 Overseas Japan 100 Aeon Environmental and Social Report 2015 76 80 Key Issue 4 Addressing social issues Developing Accredited Auditors for Second-Party Audits Acquiring and Maintaining SA8000 Certification Today there has been a rise in the number of labor issues After establishing the Aeon Supplier Code of Conduct (2003), overseas and the manufacturing plants for TOPVALU products in 2004 we acquired SA8000 certification, an international are no exception. Second-party audits are carried out by standard, becoming the first Japanese retailer to do so. The Aeon Group employees both in Japan and overseas and the standard establishes normative guidelines for protecting development of secondary-party auditors has become very the human rights of workers in international labor markets. important given the increasing number of risks overseas. Given It requires compliance in eight areas that include protecting this belief, Aeon has established the development of accredited human rights and nondiscriminatory employment practices auditors for second party audits as a KPI. as well as development of a related management system and Auditors not only carry out audits and prepare reports, they ongoing improvement to it. also provide advice when improvements are necessary and SA8000 certification applies to head office processes and continually provide support to ensure plants conform to the Aeon brand TOPVALU supplier management performed by CoC. Depending on the region, we are expanding our local Aeon Co., Ltd., Aeon Retail Co., Ltd. and Aeon Topvalu Co., Ltd. production and local sales of TOPVALU products, which has SA8000 certification is renewed after receiving a renewal audit resulted in an increase in the number of audits performed. every three years and a maintenance audit every six months. Second-party auditors are also asked to provide assistance Aeon will continue to pursue appropriate business when sales and business development staff select all new processes together with suppliers on the twin basis of the manufacturing partners, making their work wide reaching and Aeon Supplier Code of Conduct and SA8000. requiring a high level of quality. The development of auditors has become an urgent task because of the extended period of Objectives of Aeon SA8000 time required to train them from auditor candidates all the way 1. We will respect the basic human rights of employees at the workplace to independent second-party auditors. and establish comfortable working conditions by ensuring safety, Given this situation, we are enhancing our training security and health. programs led by our highly experienced second-party auditors, 2. Along with our suppliers, who are equal business partners, we will providing easier access to on-the-job-training opportunities, respect laws related to human rights and labor standards and will and creating training manuals. As a result, we have increased continue to make improvements to help build a society where universal human rights are protected and efforts are constantly made to improve our team of second-party auditors from 10 in 2010 to 38 as of working conditions. February 2015. Going forward, we will increase the number of leaders and Policies for Promoting Aeon SA8000 provide even more concentrated training, while building a 1. We will respect international norms and laws related to human rights framework to ensure that our head office can regularly evaluate and labor standards and will make improvements on an ongoing basis. the skill level of auditors. a. Child Labor: We will prohibit child labor and take remedial measures. b. Forced and Compulsory labor: We will reject forced labor in all its FY 2014 Results and Target of KPI FY 2014forms.Results and Target of KPI FY 20 c. Health and Safety: We will ensure the health and safety of employees 動推進 Construction of for sustainable supply chain building audit system Trading volume and provide healthyof fair work trade products environments. Numb 7 in Japan, 26 overseas *Including 8 local auditors d. Freedom of Association and Right to Collective Bargaining: We will 2013 ensure freedom of assembly4.2 andtons procurement 2012 2014 the right to collective bargaining. (planning ratio 83.8% achieved) e. Discrimination: We will not discriminate on the basis of nationality, 2014 8 in Japan, 30 overseas race, sex, academic background, religion, physical disability or age. 2013 2015 f . Disciplinary Practices: We will not engage in corporate Trading volume of the international Fairpunishment, Trade 8 in Japan, 30 overseas certification cacao:or40 tons abuse. psychological or physical force, verbal 2015 2020 (10 times compared with FY 2012) 2014 g. Working Hours: We will observe laws and labor agreements related to working hours, breaks and days off. 2020 2015 h. Remuneration: We will observe laws related to payment of fair wages. 2. We will conduct training programs to fully educate all employees in 2020 order to make this policy a reality, conduct regular reviews of this initiative and work to make improvements on an ongoing basis. 3. We will encourage business partners (suppliers) to create and observe a code of conduct related to human rights and labor standards and to work together with Aeon to make improvements on an ongoing basis. 4. We will work to broadly disclose this policy and provide appropriate information and we will practice corporate social accountability. 77 Aeon Environmental and Social Report 2015 Practicing Fair Trade Responding to customers’ desire to do something through Consumer Issues their purchases for the world’s underprivileged, Aeon began Safe Food and Reliable Products developing and marketing Fairtrade*-certified coffee, chocolate and other products in 2004. Quality Management of TOPVALU Brand Products We continue to advance our product development, Aeon developed its own TOPVALU brand of products to Aeon announced in January 2014 its plans to participate as improve our customers’ daily life. In product planning and the first and only Asian company in the Fairtrade Sourcing design, selection of manufacturers, finalization of product Programs, which will be launched by Fairtrade International, specifications, manufacturing management, and sales, we are and announced a plan to increase the purchase of Fairtradecreating products with our customers’ needs in mind. certified cocoa up to ten times the trade volume of 2012, by TOPVALU Brand System 2020. In addition, Aeon began visiting junior high and high schools across Japan so that the younger generation has a better understanding of Fairtrade. * Fairtrade: an initiative for doing business with producers in need of support in developing countries and setting product prices at levels appropriate to the labor TOPVALU pursues customer TOPVALU Best Price realizes the involved. The initiative helps producers attain economic and social autonomy and satisfaction and enriches the quality best prices in each trading area also supports environmental conservation. of lives with product quality that exceeds Fairtrade Sourcing Program label customer expectation (cocoa) TOPVALU Select enhances TOPVALU Gurinai ensures safety customers’ daily lives by offering and security by delivering products products of the highest quality that are healthy and friendly to the environment TOPVALU Mild milk chocolate TOPVALU Bitter chocolate flavored with cocoa The Five TOPVALU Commitments 1. We shall reflect the voices of customers in our products. 2. We shall offer safe, reliable, and environmentally friendly products. FLO (Fairtrade International) certification mark 3. We shall present product information in an easily understandable way. 4. We shall offer products at affordable prices. FY 2014 Results and Target of KPI 5. We FY 2014 guarantee shallResults and customers’ ourTarget of KPI satisfaction. FY 20 t system Trading volume of fair trade products Number of TOPVALU Products Removed due to Serious Incident Safety The Process of TOPVALU Products to Customers 92 (apparel: 32; food: 37; living / HBC: 23) 4.2 tons procurement 2012 2011 2014 (planning ratio 83.8% achieved) Selection of Aeon Product 83 (apparel: 32; food: 37; living / HBC: 23) 2013 Manufacturers that 2012 2015 Planning and Design Meet Aeon’s Standards Trading volume of the international Fair Trade certification cacao: 40 tons 103 2013 2020 (10 times compared with FY 2012) 2014 Procurement sources, safety,  BQQBSFMGPPEMJWJOH)#$ Manufactured exclusively at additives and production plants that complete and processes reviewed by 2015 comply with Aeon Supplier 2014 development, quality control Code of Conduct audits, plant and customer service staff sanitation surveys, etc. 2020  BQQBSFMGPPEMJWJOH)#$ 2015 2020 Sales through Distribution Aeon Group Stores by Aeon Regular product quality After being inspected for inspections are done before and whether they met quality after sales, and manufacturers standards, products are are audited through plant transported to each store under sanitation surveys, etc. strict distribution controls Aeon Environmental and Social Report 2015 78 Key Issue 4 Addressing social issues •Product planning and design Fiscal 2014 TOPVALU Product Accidents During product planning and design, our development, TOPVALU Canned Chopped Tomatoes (24 pack) quality control, and customer service people scrutinize Accident details: Expiry of best before date on arrival at stores potential raw material suppliers, investigate possible Response: Product withdrawal and voluntary recall (recall announced with safety concerns, examine the use of additives, research in-store display) manufacturing processes, and consider other key issues to TOPVALU SELECT Tohoku Japanese Beef ensure that the final product is safe and without any health or Accident details: Hokkaido Japanese beef had been used as an ingredient safety risks. for Tohoku Japanese beef Response: Voluntary recall (recall announced with in-store display) •Selection of manufacturers TOPVALU Okuramekabu (Okra wakame leaves) We select manufacturers by first performing Aeon Supplier Accident details: Misprint of best before date Response: Product withdrawal and voluntary recall (recall announced with Code of Conduct (CoC) audits, product safety examinations, counter display) and plant hygiene inspections. •Determination of the product specifications Labeling and Disclosing Product Information Customer monitors and Aeon employees evaluate the Aeon is working to label and disclose information necessary prototypes, considering matters such as raw materials, for consumers to choose TOPVALU brand products in a clearer additives, and manufacturing processes. and easier manner to ensure they can be used and consumed by customers with peace of mind. •Distribution and sales Following that, Aeon finalizes product specifications and Labeling of Food Allergens then inspects production and sends only products that Aeon uses standardized icons to on the outside of all food meet the criteria to stores. Thereafter, regular product quality product packaging to ensure consumers can easily identify evaluations, plant hygiene inspections and other types of nutritional information and food allergens contained in audits are conducted to make sure that the products we offer products*1. are both safe and reliable. The information covers use of seven officially designated ingredients that by law must be displayed on the outside of In this way, we are implementing initiatives aimed at product packaging*2. The back label of products also contains ensuring product safety and security from various perspectives. the 20 secondary items recommended for inclusion in product In case a defect or flaw is discovered in a product despite these labeling, bringing the total number shown to 27 ingredients*3. initiatives, Aeon informs the public of the fact as quickly as We also strive to include, where possible, food allergens that possible and calls back and withdraws the product in question. are handled in the manufacturing process and therefore could In fiscal 2014, Aeon reported 103 serious product accidents. be found in trace amounts in Aeon will strive to prevent product accidents through efforts the product. that include identifying problem areas based on customer Inspections are also feedback to avoid reoccurrence of an issue, strengthening conducted every year on relationships between related departments and reviewing applicable products to problem areas at the production and shipment phases of a confirm labeling accuracy. Labeling of Food Allergens product. *1 Icons are not used yet on certain products. *2 The seven officially designated ingredients, which are the most common and most serious allergens and must be displayed according to law, are eggs, milk, wheat, FY 2014 Results and Target of KPI FY 2014 prawns, crab,Results buckwheat peanuts. of KPI and Target and FY 20 *3 The 20 secondary items: the 20 secondary items recommended by the national Number of TOPVALU Products Removed due to Serious Incident Safety and government forSecurity Infrastructure inclusion on Development labeling are abalone, squid, salmon roe, oranges, The n cashew nuts, kiwi fruit, beef, walnuts, sesame, salmon, mackerel, soy beans, chicken, 92 (apparel: 32; food: 37; living / HBC: 23) bananas, pork, matsutake mushrooms, peaches, yams, apples, and gelatin. 2012 2011 83 (apparel: 32; food: 37; living / HBC: 23) t0GUIFBQQMJDBCMF &0/3FUBJMTUPSFT TBGFUZSFJOGPSDFNFOU 2013 2012 Labeling of Genetically Modified Ingredients DPOTUSVDUJPOXBTDPNQMFUFEBUPGUIFTUPSFTPOQSPQFSUZ 2012 PXOFECZ FPO In April 2001t$POTUSVDUJPOXBTDPNQMFUFEBUBMMBQQMJDBCMF &0/.BMM legislation in Japan enacted a labeling system 103 2013 2013 2014  BQQBSFMGPPEMJWJOH)#$ for genetically modified ingredients, but even before this, in September 2000, Aeon began labeling TOPVALU brand 2015 2014 Conducted completed in 132 stores in FY 2014 products that contain genetically modified ingredients in 2014 response to urging from our customers. We have expanded the 2020  BQQBSFMGPPEMJWJOH)#$ 2015 2015 scope of items labeled and strive Steadily complete to at provide work labeling 270 applicable even for stores items 2020not mandated by law. Additionally, in order to confirm 2020 label accuracy, products subject to labeling (separate items) undergo testing for genetically modified DNA every year. 79 Aeon Environmental and Social Report 2015 Labeling of Place of Origin of Ingredients for Processed Search System for Manufacturing Plant Codes Foods Aeon is ultimately responsible for all aspects of TOPVALU brand The labeling of the place of origin of 26 food items, including products, from planning to design and marketing and this is dried mushrooms, green tea, and konjac, among others, has why Aeon Co., Ltd. is labeled on all product packaging as the been required by law in Japan since October 2006. In order to distributor*. address customer requests and inquiries, for TOPVALU brand Consumers can check the manufacturing plant and its products, Aeon strives to provide the place of origin for the address for food items or food additives using a unique code main ingredients when the place of origin can be identified comprising numbers and letters labeled on the product and and not just for those food items required by law. reported to Japan’s Consumer Agency. This system can be In addition, we have established clear quality standards accessed from the TOPVALU website. Consumers can find for ingredients irrespective of their place of origin and the exact name investigations that include testing and location of the of ingredient standards and manufacturing plant residual pesticides. At the same simply by entering time, we sign agreements with the code on the manufacturers and carry out our online form. own verifications when necessary. Labeling of Place of Origin of * The code is found on the Ingredients cap of PET bottles and other beverages. The location of the code differs for each product. Consumers Disclosing Information on Agricultural Product Producers are asked to check the Search screen of the Search System for In 2003 we established the Producers Data Search System for packaging directly. Manufacturing Plant Codes AEON’s TOPVALU Gurinai products to give customers online access to information on producers. Since 2004, we have also Food Sanitation Control added a barcode function that allows customers to access Under the Aeon Food Sanitation Certification System producer data by reading the QR code. The data includes the established in 1995, Aeon engages in a variety of activities to place of origin as well as the commitment of the producer and prevent the occurrence of food-related incidents such as food how the item was grown. poisoning and contamination. In fiscal 2014 a cumulative total At the end of February 2015, 21 companies and 1,399 stores of approximately 75 agricultural from our GMS Business and SM business have implemented products* were labeled with QR the Aeon Food Sanitation Certification System, while a total of codes. 7,990 sections had obtained certification. * Products that differ by prefecture and that have more than one type are counted as a single product. Quality Keepers Products labeled with QR codes Aeon has assigned “Quality Keepers” at stores to verify store sanitation levels and product quality. Quality Keepers check Disclosing Information on Domestic Beef store products and food preparation areas at stores, and if a Aeon established the Domestic Beef Safety Confirmation problem is found, they order improvements. In addition, sales System in 2002, prior to enforcement of the Beef Traceability staffs inspect a list of items related to sanitation and quality Act*, in order to provide peace of mind to customers buying management, including a temperature management chart that beef. The system allows customers to find out information is used to record temperature management for display cases, about beef products from cattle raised in Japan, including refrigerators and freezers, sell by dates that are set for each where the cow was raised, who raised it and what feed it was product, and to check the freshness of fresh produce. raised on. The system is available via a website. * Enforced in December 2004, the law’s formal name is the Act on Special Measures Sanitation Training for Employees concerning the Management and Relay of Information for Individual Identification of Cattle. Employees in the food departments of Aeon stores must undergo sanitation training at least once a year. Employees Disclosing Information Related to Radioactivity and review basic sanitation knowledge and rules for food Radioactive Material preparation areas. Practical skills tests are also conducted for Following the Great East Japan Earthquake, there were each person based on a test booklet. increasing questions from customers about product place of In fiscal 2015, we have strengthened education concerning origin. In response, Aeon has been publishing the results of those points that must be observed in the preparation of radiation testing on its website. food with a focus on the three principles of food poisoning prevention: avoid contact with bacteria, avoid multiplying bacteria, sterilize bacteria. Aeon Environmental and Social Report 2015 80 Key Issue 4 Addressing social issues Audits of Food Preparation Areas Group-wide disaster prevention and safety drills Food preparation areas are audited at least twice a year. Audits Taking lessons from the experience of the Great East Japan are continued until certain established standards are met. Earthquake, Aeon has been conducting Group earthquake disaster drills twice a year to ensure quick action for the safety Sanitation Contests of employees and customers in the event of a disaster. We hold a sanitation contest once a year and honor stores In March 2014, we established the Aeon Komaki Crisis recognized as excellent in audits of food preparation areas. Management Center at the Aeon Komaki Store in Komaki City, Aichi Prefecture. In July, we conducted a drill with the Aeon Komaki Crisis Management Center working as the alternative Consumer Issues head of operations based on the scenario that the Makuhari Store Safety and Security Headquarters had been damaged by a major earthquake striking directly beneath Tokyo. Improving the Earthquake-resistance of Stores Going forward, while adjusting our predicted scenarios, we During the Great East Japan Earthquake many of our store will hold recurring drills that rally the combined strength of buildings suffered extensive damage, which in some cases Group companies so that the local head of operations in the even caused loss of life. For this reason, Aeon is moving forward affected area responds swiftly when disaster strikes. with improving the safety and earthquake resistance of its stores, giving utmost priority to protecting people’s lives and those stores in areas where a major earthquake with seismic intensity of at least upper 5 is expected to strike, in accordance with its own set of standards that are even stricter than those required by law. The number of Aeon Retail Co., Ltd’s stores that will be receiving safety and earthquake resistance work is 279. As of the end of fiscal 2014, work had been completed at 100 of these stores. In fiscal 2015, we plan on completing work at 10 Aeon Komaki Crisis Management Center more stores. In addition, there were 32 Aeon Mall Co., Ltd’s stores that Fire Prevention Drills at Stores required this same work, with work being completed at all Aeon stores check safety and disaster preparedness measures locations during fiscal 2013. Going forward, we will examine on a daily basis, while security staff and store managers also and implement work at Aeon Kyushu Co., Ltd., and Aeon conduct a final inspection after stores are closed. Hokkaido Corporation. Fire prevention drills have been conducted twice a year and earthquake response drills run once a year. Following the Great FY 2014 Results and Target of KPI FYJapan East 2014 Earthquake Results andthat Target of KPI struck in March 2011, however, we FY 20 ncident Safety and Security Infrastructure Development have decided to increase the The number of local temporary sheltersnumber of earthquake response Numb drills to two per year. We strive to make these drills as realistic as 2011 possible by changing thedistrict Set of alternative scenario for each headquarters based as a pillar on aprevention of disaster variety 2012 bases, and implementation of disaster prevention base support of the t0GUIFBQQMJDBCMF &0/3FUBJMTUPSFT TBGFUZSFJOGPSDFNFOU of possible disasters. Full store employees as well as temporary, decision, new stores of disaster prevention establishing stores in 2013 2012 DPOTUSVDUJPOXBTDPNQMFUFEBUPGUIFTUPSFTPOQSPQFSUZ 2012 and tenant employees participate in the drills. They part-time 2013 PXOFECZ FPO t$POTUSVDUJPOXBTDPNQMFUFEBUBMMBQQMJDBCMF &0/.BMM are conducted&TUBCMJTIFEBOETUPDLFEUFNQPSBSZTIFMUFSTBUTUPSFT &0/.BMM to help us respond quickly and ensure the 2013 2013 :BIBUB)JHBTIJ  &0/.BMM5TVLVCB  &0/.BMM.BLVIBSJ/FX$JUZ  2014  safety of customers in the &0/.BMM0TBLB%PNF$JUZ &0/.BMM5PJO event of a fire or earthquake. 2014 Conducted completed in 132 stores in FY 2014 2014 Crime Prevention Installed in a total of 16 stores, at AEON Town Kamaishi, Measures 2015 AEON Mall Tendo such as new 8 stores and AEON Omiya There have beenand a number AEON Sagamihara store, at of incidents etc.supermarkets existing 8 storesover (total 21 stores). 2020 2015 Steadily complete work at 270 applicable stores the 2015 past several years involving food products with needles 2020 2020 dangerous or other objects. Aeon Local temporary has shelters therefore at 100 installed of its stores across Japan security cameras in food departments and begun using needle detectors at its stores. If a needle were to be discovered, it would be promptly delivered to the police or healthcare center Fire Prevention and Disaster Preparedness and customers as well as local Group company stores would Aeon, as a commercial enterprise with large numbers of be informed through an in-store display or announcement in customers, is implementing disaster prevention measures and order to prevent additional injury or damage. drills to ensure quick action and the safety of our customers We are also conducting crime prevention drills to ensure and employees in disaster. the safety of customers in the event an incident or accident occurs in a store. 81 Aeon Environmental and Social Report 2015 Measures to Combat New Flu Viruses Installing Automated External Defibrillators (AED) Aeon formed a project team in 2006 as a measure to address Aeon is promoting the installation of AEDs in each of its stores. risks from the outbreak of infectious diseases such as the global These devices give electric shocks as a means of resuscitation spread of highly pathogenic H5N1 avian influenza in humans. for people who have suffered a sudden cardiopulmonary arrest. We established Rules for New Flu Viruses in September 2006 In addition, we are providing emergency lifesaving training for and have since been readying infection prevention measures managers and security staff. in order to ensure the safety of customers and employees. In fiscal 2014, we endeavored to increase the installation of In 2010, we established the Aeon New Influenza Integrated AEDs in small-scale supermarkets, where the number of the System and a framework for ascertaining the extent and spread devices installed is low. As a result, as of February 28, 2015, 655 of the virus at Aeon Group stores and business sites across of the devices were installed in 350 stores. Japan. In November 2010, we established the Attenuated We aim to install 663 of the devices in 355 stores by Virulence New Influenza Rules to clearly separate our response February 29, 2016. based on the virulence of the new influenza virus. From the end of fiscal 2013 to the second half of fiscal 2014 Creating a Convenient and Comfortable Store we will apply for recognition as a registered business requiring Environment for Everyone flu vaccines under the Act on Special Measures for Combating Aeon developed its own building standards based on the New Flu Viruses and strive to build a system that ensures Heartful Building Law of 1994 (revised December 2006 as the operations can be continued during an epidemic. Barrier Free Law*). We use these standards when building new stores or remodeling existing locations. As of the end of Raising Safety Levels of Store Facilities and February 2015, over 750 of our facilities had been certified as Fixtures compliant with the Barrier Free Law. Aeon works to enhance safety for facilities and fixtures used in We are also committed to incorporating universal design its stores to prevent accidents involving customers. elements, to strengthen store function and design. Recognizing that the number of seniors among our customers is increasing, Safety Measures for Escalators we aim to incorporate universal design concepts in all of our There has been an increase in recent years in accidents stores. involving children getting caught in the gap between an * The Act for Buildings Accessible to and Usable by the Elderly and Physically Disabled, also known as the Heartful Building Law, was revised and renamed the Barrier Free escalator and the wall at shopping malls and department Law in December 2006. stores. Aeon stores work to prevent escalator-related incidents by setting up barriers or dividers to prevent exposure to such gaps. In addition, at our new stores we have reduced the speed of down escalators from 30 meters per minute to 20 meters per minute as a means to prevent falls by senior Step-free entrance (AEON LakeTown) Easily visible in-store sign citizens. Safety Measures for Escalators Establishing Parking Lot Guardrails Accidents often occur in the parking lots of retail complexes caused by drivers mixing up the gas and brake pedals. We have therefore established parking lot guardrails in order to prevent cars from crashing into stores and ensure the safety of customers. Parking Lot Guardrails Aeon Environmental and Social Report 2015 82 Key Issue 4 Addressing social issues Supporters for People with Dementia TOPICS Since 2007, Aeon has been participating in the dementia Aeon’s Universal Design Initiatives initiative being jointly promoted by the Ministry of Health, The Aeon Group’s universal design initiatives have received Labour and Welfare and the non-profit organization the following commendations. Community-Care Policy Network. Our objective is to enable Aeon Mall Co., Ltd. received the Eighth (2014) Minister of more customers to be comfortable in our stores by deepening Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism Award for Barrierour employees’ understanding of dementia and implementing Free Design Contributor. The company strives to spiral up targeted measures. its universal design efforts by incorporating opinions from So far, we have run Dementia Supporter training courses to specialists or organizations for the handicapped in the increase the number of Dementia Supporters* in addition to process of planning. training instructors (in-house Caravan Mates) for the courses. In addition, Aeon Retail Co., Ltd. received the Joint Today, employees undergo training at the preparation phase Grand Award in the Category of Public Space in the IAUD for opening a new store to become Dementia Supporters Award 2014 from the International Association for Universal before the store opens. Design (IAUD). The company’s initiatives for universal design in its facilities over the years have been rated highly. In fiscal 2014, employees of the Aeon Kyoto Katsuragawa store, which opened in October 2014, and the Aeon Okayama Store, which opened in December 2014, received training together before the stores opened and renewed their understanding of preparedness for customer service. As of the end of February 2015, there are 49,975 Dementia Supporters, the largest number among companies in Japan, and 899 “Caravan Mate” instructors for the training course. In March 2015, the number of Dementia Supporters Award ceremony topped a cumulative 50,000. In the future, Aeon will expand its efforts to provide support to people with dementia and their families with the aim of building communities where they can live Care-Fitters alongside all local people with peace We encourage Aeon employees to acquire Care-fitter* of mind. certification to help ensure that seniors and people in need * Supporters for People with Dementia: People certified through a prescribed curriculum course of assistance can shop in our stores with total confidence. implemented by municipalities and other groups. Certified Care-fitters in Aeon Retail Co., Ltd. numbered 8,197 as Supporters have an understanding of dementia and are able, within their abilities, to give care The badge and orange band of the end of February 2015. to, watch over, and give support to people with worn by staff specially trained * Care-fitter : A certification administered by the Nippon Care-Fit Education Institute (a dementia and their families. to assist customers with public interest incorporated foundation) dementia Care-fitter Training Session Lectures and role playing and lectures in the dementia supporter training program 83 Aeon Environmental and Social Report 2015 Consumer Issues TOPICS Serving as a form of lifestyle infrastructure that protects the local community Excellence Award at Japan Resilience Award 2015 Establishing local temporary shelters Aeon Mall received an Excellence Prize at the First Japan [Aeon ECO Project: Protection Strategy] Resilience Award held in March 2015. Aeon has established a goal to set up 100 disaster-prevention The Japan Resilience Award recognizes advanced facilities across Japan by the end of fiscal 2020 as part of the activities related to building resilience being developed Aeon Eco Project (see p.39). around the country with the aim of building a resilient The role of disaster-prevention facilities is to provide a society. Aeon Mall was recognized for playing the role of temporary refuge during a disaster, to serve as a hub for rescue a local disaster prevention facility in times of emergency, and first-aid activities, and to provide access to daily essentials. such as large-scale natural disasters, in developing “Disaster To fulfill this role, stores serving as a local temporary shelter Resistant Smart Aeon” while building earthquake resistant feature back-up generators and water tanks to prepare for a stores that function as a disaster recovery base to enable power outage and/or water stoppages that will likely occur maintain the role of lifeline. during and after a disaster. In fiscal 2014, we established disaster-prevention facilities at 16 stores in total which were new and existing stores, including Aeon Mall Nagoyachaya, Aeon Mall Kyotokatsuragawa. Consumer Issues In fiscal 2015, we System of Dialog with Customers plan on establishing disaster-prevention System for Listening to the Opinions of Customers facilities at an Aeon puts the customer’s perspective at the heart of additional 6 stores, management. We strive to create conditions in which with the goal of customers feel free to provide suggestions and to promptly reaching more than incorporate customer comments into product lineup and 100 by 2020. Private power generation equipment installation service improvements, environmental conservation activities and other areas. FY 2014 Results and Target of KPI FY 2014 Results and Target of KPI FY 20 Suggestion Boxes and Communication Boards The number of local temporary shelters Number Each Aeon of Complaints store has set up and Compliments a box for customers Received to put their Numb Custo opinions in and a board disclosing the /VNCFSPGTFSWJDFDPNQMBJOUT opinions and Aeon’s  /VNCFSPGDPNQMJNFOUT Set of alternative district headquarters as a pillar of disaster prevention 2012 bases, and implementation of disaster prevention base support of the response. Comments and suggestions provided by customers 2011 OU decision, new stores of disaster prevention establishing stores in 2013 FSUZ 2012 replied to/VNCFSPGTFSWJDFDPNQMBJOUT are 2013 directly by a store representative and posted  /VNCFSPGDPNQMJNFOUT &TUBCMJTIFEBOETUPDLFEUFNQPSBSZTIFMUFSTBUTUPSFT &0/.BMM for others to see. We receive many 2012 2013 :BIBUB)JHBTIJ  &0/.BMM5TVLVCB  &0/.BMM.BLVIBSJ/FX$JUZ  suggestions 2014 from customers Number of serviceabout complaints: 6,895 / Number &0/.BMM5PJO  &0/.BMM0TBLB%PNF$JUZ of compliments: 1,900 things that are difficult for stores 2013 2014 Installed in a total of 16 stores, at AEON Town Kamaishi, and2015 employees to notice. The AEON Mall Tendo such as new 8 stores and AEON Omiya suggestions Number are utilized to improve of service complaints: 2,420 / 2014 and AEON Sagamihara store, etc. existing 8 stores 2015 (total 21 stores). product 2020 lineups Number andofservices compliments: and in2,900 environmental conservation activities 2015 2020 Local temporary shelters at 100 of its stores across Japan Suggestion Box and and other initiatives. Communication Board 2020 Customer Service Department The Customer Service Department at Aeon headquarters receives product and service related comments and requests from customers who visit our stores. Comments and requests, which come in via the phone, Internet, letters and other channels, are responded to after checking with the relevant departments. In addition, for TOPVALU products, we have set up a call center and collect customer suggestions. This information is reported to directors and executive officers, as well as shared with employees of relevant departments through systems that manage customer feedback. A total of 105,866 opinions (service complaints) were received in fiscal 2014 from our customers, which was 108.6% of fiscal 2013, or an increase of 8,362 opinions, compared to Aeon Environmental and Social Report 2015 84 Key Issue 4 Addressing social issues FY 2013. fiscal This is because 2014 Results and Target of KPI of product inquiries the number FY 2014 Results and Target of KPI FY 20 increased in proportion to the expansion in TOPVALU product Number lineup and of Complaints and Compliments Received sales. Number of Products Developed / Improved based on Healt Customer Feedback The number of service complaints /VNCFSPGTFSWJDFDPNQMBJOUT stood at 6,895, which was /VNCFSPGDPNQMJNFOUT  2012 evention 132.7% of fiscal 2013, or an increase of 1,699 complaints. The 93 2014 ort of the 2011 s in 2013 number 2013 of compliments received was 2,050. /VNCFSPGTFSWJDFDPNQMBJOUT /VNCFSPGDPNQMJNFOUT  107 2015 Going forward, we intend to listen carefully to the opinions 2012 0/.BMM /FX$JUZ  each and every of 2014 customer Number to complaints: of service provide them 6,895with better / Number of compliments: 1,900 121 2021 services and products and to help us attain our targets for the 2013 maishi, year 2020. 2015 N Omiya Number of service complaints: 2,420 / 2014 121 es 2020 FY Numberand 2014 Results of compliments: Target of KPI 2,900 FY 2014 Results and Target of KPI FY 20 2015 ss Japan Number of Complaints and Compliments Received Number of Products Developed / Improved based on Healt Customer 2020 Feedback 180 /VNCFSPGTFSWJDFDPNQMBJOUT /VNCFSPGDPNQMJNFOUT  2012 evention 93 2014 ort of the 2011 s in 2013 /VNCFSPGTFSWJDFDPNQMBJOUT /VNCFSPGDPNQMJNFOUT  2013 107 2015 2012 TOPICS 0/.BMM /FX$JUZ  Number of service complaints: 6,895 / Number 2014 of compliments: 1,900 Examples of Product Development and 121 2021 2013 maishi, Improvements Made Based on Customer 2015 N Omiya Number of service complaints: 2,420 / Feedback 2014 121 es 2020 Number of compliments: 2,900 Improvement to shape of can lid pull tabs 2015 ss Japan There were repeated reports that can lid pull tabs on canned tuna varieties manufactured 2020 180 in Thailand broke off while Customer Monitor Program opening. In light of this, the shape of the can lid was improved so Aeon has established two customer monitor programs to that the pull tab is less likely to separate from the lid when create products that customers want and to improve quality. the pull tab is popped up. First is the in-store monitor program where customers who As a result, while there were 98 reports in the six visit the store to shop are asked to become monitors who months between February 1 and July 31, 2014 before the assess the flavor and texture of food products without being improvement, this declined to 38 reports* in the six months told anything about the product itself. Second is the home use from February 1 to July 31, 2015 after the improvement. monitor program where customers test out a product in their * The 38 reports were reports about pre-improvement products, and there were 0 reports about post-improvement products. own home. Assessment criteria include not only taste, but also quantity, price and ease of use. In a “product database,” we are digitizing and compiling the evaluations from monitors, including categories such as quality, packaging, and inclination to purchase. Going forward, we aim to fully Shape of can lid improved to make the pull tab pop up more easily employ the product database to when pulled continue refining the appeal of the TOPVALU brand and to further satisfy customers. Product database (Excerpt) Home use monitors In-store monitors 85 Aeon Environmental and Social Report 2015 Labeling of Nutritional Contents Consumer Issues In the past, we have taken such initiatives as labeling food Providing Products to Support Our Customers’ Healthy Life allergens on the outside of TOPVALU product packaging. However, starting in fiscal 2014, while asking for customers’ Health-Conscious Initiatives opinions on what kind of labeling is important, we decided Amid rising interest in healthy living, both physically and to label nutritional contents* such as energy and fat on the emotionally, and in living even better. Aeon is promoting the outside of product packaging. By arranging and printing provision of goods and services and the establishment of nutritional contents information in a fixed position on the stores that support a healthier life for customers in order to outside of product packaging, we aim to provide individual strengthen initiatives in the health and wellness field. customers with a yardstick for managing their health through In the area of product development, we are mainly creating diet, conscious of daily healthy balanced meals. products based on the concepts of “eliminate,” “reduce,” and * Five nutritional contents of energy, protein, fat, carbohydrate, and sodium “supplement.” •Concept: “eliminate” and “reduce” Foods that eliminate or reduce things like salt, energy, fat and other components that tend to be excessive in ordinary life. Also foods that eliminate or reduce specific nutritional contents. •Concept: “supplement” Foods that can readily supplement nutritional elements (vitamins, calcium, etc.) that tend to be lacking in ordinary life. Also foods that target people who have a positive desire to TOPICS boost nutritional contents to maintain their health. Enhancing the Shopping Experience Responding to Shopping Needs of Seniors Aeon’s is responding to the shopping needs of seniors with a focus on the four points of products, floor space, tenant selection, and service. We are using the name Grand Generation (G.G.) for seniors who are active and aggressive consumers – and instituting new business model programs such as ‘G.G. Mall’ and ‘G.G. Cards’ targeted to seniors. Promoting Omni-channel Strategy The popularity of net-shopping is increasing with the rapid spread of smart phones and tablets. In response to needs related to this, the Aeon group is strengthening its omnichannel strategy by developing Aeon store e-commerce platforms. In addition, increasing home delivery service of FY 2014 Results and Target of KPI FYgoods. 2014 Results and Target of KPI FY 20 Health care efforts in products Female Manager Ratio Grou 4.2% About 300 products sold in TOPVALU under the 2012 2012 2014 concept of “eliminate”, “reduce” and “supplement” 14.5% 2013 2013 2015 Product development plans and product development 2021 in line with the health and wellness of the concept 2014 18.2% 4,3%65 people (as of April 1, 2015) 2014 2015 2015 2016 30% 2016 2020 50% 2020 Aeon Environmental and Social Report 2015 86 Key Issue 4 Addressing social issues Running Diversity Training — Daimanzoku College Human Rights / Labor Practices Aeon launched Career Design Course in fiscal 2014. The course is targeted at females aged around 25 years and aimed to reduce retirement of young employees. Approximately 540 Promoting Diversity employees from 42 Group companies took the course. Since being founded, Aeon has respected human rights and In fiscal 2015, two courses, Career Up Course and aimed to be a company where diverse human resources can Management Course, will open. play active roles without any discrimination on grounds such as nationality, race, sex, academic background, religion, mental or physical disability, or any other attribute. Amidst business globalization and the requirement to respond rapidly to differences, Aeon established the Diversity Promotion Office in July 2013 as an organization under the direct control of the Group CEO to continually create new value by leveraging its diverse pool of human resources and Planning careers and sharing with colleagues respecting the unique traits of each individual employee. As the first step in this process, we have launched efforts to reach our goal of becoming recognized as the best employer for Establishing Commendation Program females in Japan and the company where female workers most — Daimanzoku Award want to work. Aeon has set up a Daimanzoku award to recognize the “Daimanzoku” is the key word in Aeon’s activities to company with the most promoted diversity among the promote diversity. Daimanzoku is about realizing satisfaction Group. The first award winner, Aeon Supercenter Co., Ltd., was for employees and their families, who create diversity, recognized mainly for the effectiveness of their action plans. customers and the company. In fiscal 2014, we built diversity promotion systems at each Group company and established in-house training and a commendation program aimed at achieving Daimanzoku. Award ceremony on November 5, 2014 Building Diversity Promotion Systems — Daimanzoku Summit Aeon has designated a person responsible for diversity promotion, a leader to realize a corporation offering Basic principles on personnel exceptional opportunities for women, and a leader to achieve With the primary objective of management based on respect for an excellent workplace for women in each of 65 Group human rights, Aeon’s basic principles on personnel revolve around listening to employees’ aspirations, understanding employees’ companies. All Aeon companies are now analyzing their status, feelings and making the most of what employees have to offer, identifying issues, and implementing their own ideas to solve based on the guiding philosophy of ensuring that all Aeon people the issues. Four times a year the Daimanzoku Summit is held. It lead a full life at work, at home and in the community. is attended by people responsible for diversity promotion and Basic approach to personnel leaders to share information between Group companies for • Creating a corporate environment in which human resources can utilization in activities at their own companies. continue to grow as they work over the long term. In the kickoff summit in April 2014, approximately 180 • Dealing with personnel based on ability and achievement, not persons from 65 Group companies gathered. nationality, age, gender or category. Five Human Resources Principles Management based on respect 1. Fairness for human rights 2. Respect Listening to employees’ aspirations Understanding 3. Openness to change employees’ feelings Making the 4. Rationality most of what employees have to offer 5. Ability Development Ensuring a full life at work, at home and in the community Kickoff of Daimanzoku summit in April 2014 87 Aeon Environmental and Social Report 2015 Appointment of Female Managers TOPICS Aeon has established targets for the female manager ratio of Aeon’s Diversity Initiatives Receive 30% by fiscal 2016 and 50% by fiscal 2020. External Recognition As of April 1, 2015, the female manager ratio stood at 18.2% (includes consolidated subsidiaries). Aeon received the Grand Prize in the Basic Achievement of the 2014 J-Win Diversity Award. The Prize celebrates Going forward, Aeon will make positive efforts to appoint a company that views diversity and inclusion as a women aimed at achieving the target. management strategy, and sets encouragement of female FYworkers’ 2014 Results andas active roles Target of KPI issue. Aeon was an important FY 2014 Results and Target of KPI FY 20 recognized as a company whose efforts are most expected Health carefurther to make efforts in products progress among Female Manager Ratio Grou companies that have prepared a 4.2% About 300 products sold in TOPVALU under the 2012 2012 2014 practical system to promote concept diversity of “eliminate”, “reduce” and “supplement” & inclusion, and have begun creating a 14.5% 2013 2013 mechanism to continuously promote 2015 female leaders. Product development plans and product development in line 2021In addition, with the health and wellness of the concept Aeon 2014 18.2% 4,3%65 people (as of April 1, 2015) 2014 was selected in the 2014 Diversity Management 2015 2015 Selection 100 hosted by the Ministry of Economy, 2016 30% 2016 Trade and Industry, as one of the companies that 2020 50% 2020 Award ceremony on March 6, achieved results in the 2015 creation of innovation and improvement of productivity by utilizing diverse human Hiring Employees of Foreign Nationality , Group resources. Aeon was recognized for the announcement of International People to People Exchange Programs the target ratio of female managers by 2020, the successful Aeon is actively hiring young talent who will shoulder the cases of females’ active roles, and the good effects on future in the Asian countries of Japan, China, Malaysia, Thailand, the management brought Indonesia, and Vietnam. Ever since our three-year mediumabout by retention and term management plan and strategy of shifting to Asia started, cooperation with foreign we hired approximately 10,000 people (7,700 in Japan and workers. 2,700 overseas) in three years from fiscal 2011 to the end of fiscal 2013, and around 5,000 (3,600 in Japan and 1,350 overseas) in fiscal 2014. While proactively hiring talent that can take active roles on the global stage and beyond borders, VOICE Aeon encourages greater international exchanges within the Expecting further promotion of diversity Aeon Group with a target of exchanging 600 people as the The award recognized the initiatives that involve 65 Group accumulated total between fiscal 2013 and 2016 and 1,500 companies through summit meetings, college programs, and people by fiscal 2020. Group Awards under the concept of Daimanzoku, aiming to be The accumulated total exchange of people for fiscal 2013 an excellent place for women to work, and a corporation that and fiscal 2014 was 168. gives women exceptional opportunity and is the most popular The target exchange for fiscal 2015 is 133 people. among women as a workplace. In addition, the company has achieved visible results such as the dramatic reduction of turnover rate of young female workers in two years, which was the most serious issue before, by closely analyzing the present status to identify the issues and by implementing appropriate measures. The results also include the establishment of foundation for female pipelines. Training overseas (Myanmar) Training overseas (China) Going forward, we expect the company to continue even stronger promotion, and achieve the numerical target of 50% for the female manager Yukako Uchinaga Board Chair ratio in 2020. NPO J-Win Aeon Environmental and Social Report 2015 88 Key Issue 4 Addressing social issues FY 2014 Results and Target of KPI Promoting FY 2014 Results Equaland Opportunities Target of KPI for Part-time Employees FY 20 We have developed various programs that allow part-time Group International People to People Exchange Programs Employment employees of People to thrive at thewith Disabilities workplace. Creat 9 people For example, Aeon Retail Co., Ltd.2.4％ hasFNQMPZFFT a system that makes 2012 2012 2012 it possible for all employees to utilize the same training and 68 people hiring programs. It instituted the Community  FNQMPZFFT Employee* 2013 2013 2013 Program in 2004 to eliminate differences in roles, expectations 2014 Total 168 people and 2014 treatment depending on employee 5,279 employees (as of June classifications 1, 2015) (full 2014 employee or parttime employee) and to enable the continued 2015 growth 2015 of all employees depending on ability, performance 2015 and motivation. The program eliminates differences in 2020 3.0% more than, 10,000 employees 2020 2016 Total 600 people educational and hiring opportunities. It also makes it possible for anyone to take on the challenge of a higher position, 2020 Total 1,500 people including willing Community Employees if they fulfill certain conditions set by the company. * Community Employee is a collective designation for Aeon Retail employees working in a specific location and not subject to geographic transfer. There are two categories: Employment for People with Disabilities hourly wage positions (part timers) and monthly salaried positions (full-timers). Aeon is working to establish conditions Group-wide that allow people with disabilities to work with a sense of purpose. Improving System for Employing the Elderly Abilities JUSCO Co. Ltd. established in 1980 runs 10 Scrum Aeon Retail Co., Ltd. instituted a mandatory retirement age of CD/DVD & Books stores in the Tohoku region, where people 65 starting in 2007 in order to meet the needs of the company, with disabilities are working alongside able-bodied staff. which wants to continue employing people over the age of 60 Furthermore, Aeon Supercenter Co., Ltd. has adopted a home who are highly motivated, and the needs of the workers, who and mobile working system for people with disabilities in want to continue working in a stable environment utilizing cooperation with Abilities JUSCO. their knowledge and experiences. As of the end of February As of June 2015, the total number of people with disabilities 2015, approximately 20,000 employees (including part-timers) employed at Group companies stood at 5,279. were working taking advantage of the experiences, skills, and Going forward, Aeon knowledge acquired in the past. In addition, the number of will continue to promote consolidated subsidiaries that have instituted a mandatory initiatives aimed at meeting retirement age of 65 has now reached 43. the target for employment of 10,000 people with Workshop on LGBT disabilities by fiscal 2020. Responding to increasing attention to human rights of sexual minorities (LGBT: Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, and Transgender), Aeon held a workshop on LGBT to provide the latest knowledge on human rights and to create a workplace where individual FY 2014 Results and Target of KPI FY 2014 Results employees can work andin Target their own of KPI ways. We invited Ms. Maki ams Employment of People with Disabilities Muraki, the chairperson of Nijiiro Creating Pleasant, Comfortable Workplaces Diversity, an incorporated non-profit organization, to give a lecture, and a total of 125 2.4％ FNQMPZFFT 9 companies certified to use the Kurumin logo 2012 employees 2012 including personnel assigned to human rights  FNQMPZFFT enlightenment promotion and human resource managers, 12 companies certified to use the Kurumin logo 2013 from 2013 respective Group companies, participated13 companies incertified to use the Kurumin 2014 5,279 employees (as of June 1, 2015) 2014 it in fiscal 2014.logo (as of April 2015) 2015 2015 1SPNPUFJOJUJBUJWFTVOEFSUIF(FOFSBM#VTJOFTT Action Plan for Japan's Act for Measures to Support the 2020 3.0% more than, 10,000 employees Human 2020 Rights-related Development of Training the Next Generation (expand number of Aeon respectscompanies the human rightstoof certified useallthe Kurumin people logo) and does not discriminate on the basis of nationality, race, sex, academic background, religion, mental or physical disability, or any other attribute. Each and every Aeon employee strives to listen closely to co-workers and make the company a place where people respect one another as equals. To accomplish this Aeon holds training programs to facilitate correct understanding and deepen awareness of a variety of issues, among all employees including issues pertaining to social discrimination, foreign residents, abuse of 89 Aeon Environmental and Social Report 2015 power, diversity, people with disabilities and work-life balance. Sundays, national holidays, The Aeon Group as a whole trains employees on human and year-end and New rights issues at training for new executive officers, training for Year holidays. The childcare new employees of the Aeon Group, Aeon Business School fees are calculated from (personnel training course), and meetings held for human hours of care regardless of resource managers across the Aeon Group. At training for new the day or time period in employees of the Aeon Group, all new employees acquire order to reduce the burden basic knowledge related to human rights that is required of on employees of paying Opening ceremony of Aeon Yumemirai Nursery employees. additional fees or arranging At the individual company level as well, efforts are made secondary childcare. We opened our second nursery at Aeon to raise human rights awareness through a variety of in-house Mall Okinawa Rycom in August 2015. training programs. In April 2015, we opened Aeon After-school Class at the Creating Pleasant, Comfortable Workplaces Aeon Marinpia Annex and at Aeon is a strong advocate of helping employees balance work Daiei Narimasu Store. The classes, which offer a comprehensive life with child raising needs. Specifically, we strive to encourage after-school care program with physical, academic, moral, and employees raising children to reduce their overtime work, take dietary education, are located near train stations, making it childcare leave, including fathers, and take annual paid leave. convenient for parents to drop off and pick up their children Continuing on from fiscal 2013, in fiscal 2014 we promoted and for children to come to the class. initiatives at each Aeon Group company, of our general The existence of bosses and organizations that recognize business action plan developed under the Act for Measures to diversity and make use of it in management is key in achieving Support the Development of the Next Generation. As a result, a balance between work life and child raising. Therefore, as of April 30, 2015, a total of 13 companies* Aeon Co., Ltd. and Daiei, Inc. became the first retailers to have been certified to display the Kurumin join the IkuBoss* Alliance in June 2015. In the future, we will logo. increase membership to Group companies to accelerate the Going forward, we will continue to development of management that achieves outcomes while implement measures aimed at achieving a supporting the balance of work life and childraising. balance between work life and child rearing. * IkuBoss: the ideal advocated and promoted by non-profit organization Fathering Japan. It refers to a boss who considers the work-life balance of subordinates and staff * Aeon Group companies certified as of the end of April 2015 : AEON CO., LTD., AEON working with him or her in the workplace and supports their career and lives while Retail Co., Ltd., The Daiei, Inc., SUNDAY CO., LTD., AEON CREDIT SERVICE CO., LTD., producing outcomes for the organization and being able to enjoy his or her own work AEON Mall Co.,Ltd., AEON RYUKYU CO., LTD., Maxvalu Chubu Co., Ltd., Maxvalu and private lives. Nishinihon Co., Ltd., ORIGIN TOSHU CO., LTD., CFS Corporation, AEON GLOBAL SCM CO., LTD., KASUMI CO., LTD. FY 2014 Results and Target of KPI Securing Work-Life Balance Four Career Paths for Employees [Aeon Retail Co., Ltd] Creating Pleasant, Comfortable Workplaces Aeon Retail Co., Ltd established four career paths in 2004. Under 9 companies certified to use the Kurumin logo this system employees may choose to take on the challenge 2012 of a different career path. Also, there are no differences in 12 companies certified to use the Kurumin logo opportunities for acquiring qualifications or applying for new 2013 positions depending on the path, and employees are able to 13 companies certified to use the Kurumin 2014 logo (as of April 2015) participate in various training programs regardless of the path. Going forward, we will further develop our programs 2015 and systems so that female employees in particular have a 1SPNPUFJOJUJBUJWFTVOEFSUIF(FOFSBM#VTJOFTT Action Plan for Japan's Act for Measures to Support the workplace environment where they can thrive professionally, 2020 Development of the Next Generation (expand number of companies certified to use the Kurumin logo) while achieving a work-life balance between their job and marriage or childcare. Helping to Balance Work Life with Child Raising The four career paths available to Aeon Retail Co., Ltd. Aeon is establishing childcare facilities in Aeon stores to enable employees (As of February 28, 2015) Aeon employees and workers from mall tenants, who are • National (N) staff: Can essentially be transferred anywhere in raising children while working, and customers from the local Japan or overseas area to balance work life with child raising without any anxiety. • Regional (R) staff: Can be transferred anywhere within a specific regional block In December 2014, a nursery for Group companies, Aeon • Community-based staff: No transfer requiring relocation. Option Yumemirai Nursery opened in Aeon Mall Makuhari New City. of daily/monthly salary or hourly wage. For the purposes of an employee’s smooth return to work from • Contract workers: No transfer requiring relocation. Part-time only childbirth and subsequent child rearing, and of support for employees working while raising children, the nursery opens from 7:00 to 22:00 basically every day, including Saturdays, Aeon Environmental and Social Report 2015 90 Key Issue 4 Addressing social issues Childcare and Nursing Care Support Programs Global Framework Agreements [Aeon Retail Co., Ltd] In November 2014, Aeon Co., Ltd. signed the Global Framework Aeon Retail Co., Ltd. makes childcare leave available for up Agreement on labor, human rights, and the environment with to April 20 of the year the child enters middle school. While UNI Global Union, which is an international labor organization, the legal requirement under Japan’s Child Care and Family UA zensen, and Federation of Aeon Group Workers’ Union. The Care Leave Act is to attempt to make this available until the agreement is a commitment negotiated by a multinational child enters elementary school, we have provided extra time enterprise and an international industry labor union before the because workers often want to take time off after that for other enterprise expands the business globally. Over 100 companies events in their child’s life. around the world concluded the agreement, and Aeon became For employees with families for which nursing care is the third company in Japan. On the occasion of signing deemed necessary, we have established a nursing care leave the Global Framework program and a nursing care work program that provide time Agreement, the four parties off or shortened working hours. will jointly promote their The following chart contains data on the number of efforts on labor, human employees taking childcare or nursing care leave in fiscal 2014. rights, and the environment so as to become a role model Welfare Programs for the labor-management As Aeon’s mutual aid society, the Aeon Good Life Club, in relationship in Asia. Interview on conclusion of Global Framework Agreements which some 210,000 Aeon Group employees are enrolled, administers various programs, contributing to the achievement and enhancement of common welfare to enable Group Helping Employees Maintain or Improve Their employees to have a sense of security, solidarity and pride. Health Programs include the payment of gift money for celebratory Aeon is working to ensure that all of its employees receive occasions or condolences (mutual assistance), subsidies for regular health exams and that it thoroughly conducts followup, childcare and nursing care, various forms of insurance (selfwhich includes recommendations for additional medical help support), and support for leisure activities and health screenings and work schedule adjustments based on the (motivational assistance). results of the exams, in order to properly manage employees’ health in compliance with the provisions of Japan’s Industrial Health and Safety Committees Safety and Health Act. Health and Safety Committees are organized at the store To help employees maintain or improve their health, we and business office level in order to ensure the safety and also have developed an insurance program to provide more health of employees and promote the creation of pleasant, comprehensive health exams to employees over the age of 40 comfortable working conditions. For example, at Aeon Retail, that are enrolled in Aeon’s corporate health insurance society. store managers, managers of personnel and general affairs We also hold an annual Health Challenge Campaign for all departments, employee representatives and labor union enrolled members and have implemented initiatives to make representatives attend the committee meetings, which are held activities to improve health into a habit in everyday life. once a month. Points for improvement in employee working A counselling office is provided to support good mental conditions and the workplace environment are considered by health as part of the member services provided by the Aeon labor and management, paving the way for improvements. Good Life Club, Aeon’s mutual aid society. Labor Union Status Employee Satisfaction Survey Aeon emphasizes dialogue between labor and management, In 2012 and 2013, an employee satisfaction survey on morale and discussions are held with the labor union through Safety was conducted targeting all Aeon Group employees. The and Sanitation Committees and the labor-management results of this survey and employee feedback will be utilized to council. develop our organization and systems to improve motivation The labor union has encouraged part-time employees and make our workplaces more employee-friendly to enhance to become members, and as of the end of May 2015, the employee and customer satisfaction. labor union had 217,000 members, including 163,000 partIn fiscal 2014, each company worked to further enhance time employees. We actively work to incorporate employee employee satisfaction by drafting and implementing concrete feedback through workplace meetings participated in by union measures to enhance satisfaction based on the results from the members. last two surveys. In fiscal 2015, we are conducting an employee satisfaction survey targeting approximately 240,000 employees at the 74 main Group companies in Japan. 91 Aeon Environmental and Social Report 2015 Training Programs Supporting the Growth of Internal Certification Systems Employees Aeon has established a wide array of internal certification Aeon believes that the greatest form of welfare is education. systems for specific jobs. Eight of these certifications have been This phrase embodies the thought that education, in addition accredited by the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare and to wages and benefits, is key to enriching the lives of its recognized for their high quality. employees. Given this, we have created a wide range of training programs that support the growth of employees and their desire for advancement. Aeon Fundamental Education This is provided for the first three years following employment with the same content Group-wide. Besides sharing Aeon’s Sengyo-shi skill competition basic philosophy and set of values, the education aims to get employees to completely master the corporate culture and Internal Certifications and Number of Holders* basic skills as Aeon people. (As of February 28, 2015) ◎Fresh fish master (grade 1) 16 • Senior cycle advisor 245 Aeon Group Self Declaration Form System ◎Fresh fish master (grade 2) 1,568 • Beauty advisor 698 This system encourages transfer within the Aeon Group ◎Fresh fish master (grade 3) 3,023 • Handcraft advisor 489 beyond the framework of the company amid the many • Baby advisor 659 • Senior care advisor 115 different business domains covered by the Aeon Group. In • Fashion advisor 1,045 ◎Hot deli master 2,434 • Liquor advisor 622 ◎Sushi master 2,313 fiscal 2014, the system was implemented targeting the senior • Fish advisor 362 ◎Farm product master 1,061 management level at 38 Group companies. • Digital advisor 287 ◎Greenery master 542 • Home appliance advisor 88 ◎Gardening master 312 Sending Personnel to Graduate Schools in Japan • General appliance advisor 48 • Energy Advisor Total 450 Under this system, Aeon selects employees from Group • Cycle advisor 1,288 companies to enter graduate school in Japan (MBA course) as ◎ denotes qualifications accredited by the Ministry of Health, Labor and Welfare. * Total for Aeon Retail Co., Ltd., AEON SUPERCENTER Co., Ltd.,Aeon Hokkaido a means to develop human resources that will take charge of Corporation, AEON KYUSHU CO., LTD., AEON RYUKYU CO., LTD., Maxvalu Hokkaido managing the Aeon Group in the future. The aims are for them Co., Ltd., Maxvalu Tohoku Co., Ltd., Maxvalu Chubu Co., Ltd., Maxvalu Kyusyu Co., Ltd., MAXVALU KITA TOHOKU CO., LTD., MAXVALU MINAMI TOHOKU CO., LTD., MAXVALU to learn specialized knowledge related to management and KANTO CO., LTD., MAXVALU NAGANO CO., LTD., MAXVALU HOKURIKU CO., LTD., build networks outside of the company. Maxvalu Nishinihon Co., Ltd. AEON BIG CO., LTD, TAKIYA Co., Ltd, KOHYO CO., LTD. (18 companies) Global Trainee System Under this system, Aeon posts outstanding human resources Aeon DNA University across national borders to Group companies in Japan, China In September 2012, Aeon instituted the Aeon DNA University and ASEAN in order to train the future leaders of the overseas to train the next generation of Aeon management by instilling business and human resources with the ability to act at the the philosophy and values of the company passed down since global level. The aim is acquisition of essential knowledge and its founding. Group CEO Motoya Okada himself is an instructor skills through operational experience and training overseas. at the university. In fiscal 2014, the fourth class graduated in March 2014, and Aeon Business School the fifth class graduated in September 2014, with a total of 100 The Aeon Business School provides courses for personnel to students completing the course as of September 30, 2015. learn the knowledge necessary for the jobs they aspire to. The Students will receive insystem supports self-actualization of motivated personnel. depth instruction into Aeon’s 18 courses were held in fiscal 2014 and up to 528 people DNA and will contribute to attended. Aeon’s future growth as the nextgeneration of managers. Group Recruitment System This system enables personnel to challenge the business and job position they aspire to without being restricted by the DNA University Class domain or company they belong to. In fiscal 2014, recruitment was conducted for the junior employee overseas dispatch program and other opportunities at various new businesses within A. Colle Co., Ltd., RO.U CO., LTD. AEON LIFE CO., LTD., and AEON Integrated Business Service Co., Ltd. and the Global Trainee system. Aeon Environmental and Social Report 2015 92 Update Report Aeon’s Response to the Great East Japan Earthquake:“Project Aeon Joining Hands” “Project Aeon Joining Hands” has reached the end of its first period of activities, and has entered its second period of contributing to disaster-hit areas based on the key concepts of “Interaction and Creativity.” In March 2012, Aeon took the decision to engage its entire organization in long-term measures to assist the recovery of disaster-hit areas, and launched “Project Aeon Joining Hands” based on three main activities. The company is committed to a 10-year plan of activities, running from fiscal 2012 to fiscal 2021. Given the need for a midto long-term strategy as we progress with these activities, we have defined our “Mediumto Long-Term Plan,” which divides activities as a whole into three-year cycles, and will run until fiscal 2021. Objective: First Period To ensure that everyone within the Group is aware of and understands the details of our project activities. Period of Establishing Details of Activities: -Partnership with non-profit and other organizations, and support for planned activities that meet local needs, and encourage Initial Structures the recovery of people’s lifestyles. -Aeon people to periodically visit the same areas throughout the year, and build links with local people. 2012 2013 2014 Tohoku Reconstruction Hometown Forests Program Outline of Measures Taken during the Period of Establishing Initial Structures Support performance of 2015 of February We have been planting trees along the coastline of Iwate, Miyagi and Fukushima Prefectures. We have spent three years The number of tree planted experiencing the fact that “Once you begin to plant trees, you in the affected area can begin to create a forest.” Tree planting activities have enabled us to connect to local residents, and these connections will continue as we cultivate the forest, aiming for 106,997 the recovery of a local community that benefits from the riches of nature. Dispatching of Volunteers Outline of Measures Taken during the Period of Establishing Initial Structures Support performance of 2015 of February We have been active in Rikuzentakata City, Iwate Prefecture, in fiscal 2012, and active in Minamisoma City, Fukushima Employees who participated Prefecture since fiscal 2013. These activities continue today. in the disaster area volunteer Many Aeon people have visited the disaster-hit areas, and now, by experiencing life there more directly, and becoming involved in activities there, they are working to build strong Total 1,987 relationships with local residents. Support Activities by Each Region and Company Outline of Measures Taken during the Period of Establishing Initial Structures Support performance of 2015 of February Each company within our Group has now allocated a person in Employees who participated in volunteer charge of progressing these activities, and we are continually activities in the company and around 138,053 implementing local training in the disaster-hit areas. Each of our group companies, and each member of our management and Total workforce, has been developing their own unique activities. We *Includes number of full-time employees who participated have held “Tohoku Recovery Markets,” and shown the in volunteer activities in the disaster-hit areas. documentary film “Utagokoro” nationwide, in order to promote the start of our project both within and outside the company. 93 Aeon Environmental and Social Report 2015 Web http://www.aeon.info/environment/kokoro/ “Project Aeon Joining Hands” ● Basic Concept ● The Purpose of Supporting Recovery Based on the three principles of Aeon, which are “Peace,” We are supporting the sustainable recovery of local communities, in which people and “People” and “Community,” Aeon people throughout the nature, and nature and industry, can coexist, and where individuals feel connected with world are committed to utilizing the diverse resources made one another. available through Aeon’s business activities, exercising their creativity and contributing in creative ways to the recovery of ● The Project Vision the areas affected by the Great East Japan Earthquake By combining the three principles of Aeon, which are “Peace,” “People” and “Community,” Disaster. For Aeon people, this is an opportunity to both with the “purpose of supporting recovery,” we are able to objectively consider what we realize and experience first hand Aeon’s principles, as well as want to do and what we are able to do in order to achieve our aims. We will continue to an opportunity for personal growth. By extension, it is also an contribute by being creative, engaging in activities, and walking alongside people living in opportunity for them to grow as business people. disaster-affected areas, who are standing up to make a difference in their communities. Objective: Objective: Second Period Our Group companies, management and workforce will Third Period To systematize the results of Expanding build relationships with different communities through interaction with local residents, supporting them over Organization the project, and link them to further activities. Independence the long term, and implementing continuous support. and Fulfillment 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 Measures working towards Second Period “Expanding Independence” Alongside local residents, who are active as a result of a desire to see the coastal woods restored in the Tohoku Area, people from various areas of Japan and different Support targets by fiscal 2021 companies will come together to progress interaction between regions through tree planting activities. We 300,000 aim to plant not only trees, but also fruit trees and flowers, in order to support the recovery of agriculture and tourism as well. In addition to this, we plan to work on the recovery of the wood in the village shrine, a favorite spot of local people, and plant trees in squares in front of stations, many of which were washed away. Measures working towards Second Period “Expanding Independence” Activities in Fukushima Prefecture’s Hama-dori, which aim to regenerate the local community and bring people back from the places they dispersed to after the nuclear accident, give Support targets by fiscal 2021 us the opportunity to share the importance of thinking about, and being active in regard to, social problems in the 300,000 places where they are happening, and to apply this experience to their lives within society and their work. To date, our volunteer activities were largely physical, but these are gradually transitioning into activities focused more on interaction between people. Through this interaction, we aim to propose a program of interaction that allows local residents and Aeon to connect and stimulate one another creatively. Voice In order to ensure that our recovery support activities Come and Show the People of Minamisoma continue over the long term, we need to connect with Your Smiling Faces members of the local communities and ensure that our We are so thankful to everyone involved in “Project work is in line with what is needed at any particular time. Aeon Joining Hands.” They have continued to visit us Our work during the first three-year period has given rise from all over Japan, and worked alongside us as we to several good examples based on engagement with have tried to restore the lives of people in Minamisoma. It is now four years since the disaster struck, and we Atsuko Suzuki the community and implementation of activities as a have our hospitals open once again, as well as some Director of the result. restaurants. Little by little we are moving back towards Disaster Recovery Based on this, we have defined the key concept for the our old lives, but we are still only part of the way there. Volunteer Center Minamisoma Social second period as “Interaction and Creativity.” Aeon is In order to ensure that our residents remain positive, we Welfare Association committed to supporting further recovery through would like you to continue to come and show us your creative means of assistance, based on our experience smiling faces. We are looking forward to meeting you. gained from interaction with residents in the disaster-affected areas. Aeon Environmental and Social Report 2015 94 Update Report Aeon’s Response to the Great East Japan Earthquake:Providing Support through Our Business Activities Aeon continues its initiatives aimed at reconstructing and developing the Tohoku region through assisting in the development of towns conducive to secure living and the vitalization of the region’s agricultural, fishery and livestock industries. Since the Great East Japan Earthquake occurred, Aeon has assisted the local people in its daily living and dedicated itself to reopening stores in disaster-affected areas that potentially serve as those areas’ economic infrastructure, such as how they employ local people. Yet, in municipalities that suffered tremendous damage, towns are in need of large-scale reconstruction that goes beyond reopening individual stores to include the redevelopment of peripheral infrastructure. Given that situation, Aeon has been striving to create employment through opening stores in the Tohoku area and providing goods and services that are convenient and help to enrich lifestyles. Contributing to communities with stores In March 2013, Aeon concluded the “Agreement Regarding Installment of Large-Scale Commercial Facility and Contribution to Aizu Festival held with Aizuwakamatsu City Local Community” with Kamaishi city in Iwate prefecture which is working hard toward reconstruction. Together with the city, Aeon opened Aeon Town Kamaishi in March 2014 to create a city that takes disaster prevention and evacuation system into consideration. Towards the realization of safe and prosperous living, Aeon opened 15 stores in the six prefectures of the Tohoku region during fiscal 2014. We are also working together with members of the Aeon Town Kamaishi government and regional organizations to conduct special projects Opened in March 2014 for relaying cuisine and culture that is local to Tohoku. Supporting through products Aeon is supporting reconstruction and revitalization of Tohoku agriculture, fishing and livestock industries mainly through TOPVALU product lines and other products containing Tohoku ingredients with a “Reach! The Hearts of Tohoku logo sticker and selling these items throughout Japan. Additionally, in cooperation with Sanriku Tetsudo Railway and the Kuji City Fishery Cooperative in Iwate Prefecture, we developed Japan’s first “fast fish*” product. We initiated sales of that product in 2012, and have since been successively increasing our jointly-developed product portfolio. * Fish food that has been processed so that it can be casually but tastily enjoyed without taking time to prepare. Promoting support efforts together with our customers all over Japan In order to serve as a bridge that connects disaster victims and our yen to foundations that support the “lives” and “education” of customers, together with those customers, we continue to engage children in the prefectures of Iwate, Miyagi and Fukushima, making in support efforts that leverage Aeon’s unique infrastructure and for cumulative donations of 5,500,080,373 yen by Aeon (out of initiatives. In fiscal 2015, we donated a total of approx. 99,370,000 which 1,450 million yen originated from our customers). Aeon Happy Yellow Receipt Campaign Tohoku Reconstruction WAON Card On the 11th of every month, which is Aeon We issue a special “Tohoku Reconstruction WAON” card through Day, we conduct the “Aeon Happy Yellow which Aeon donates part of the proceeds to support activities in Receipt Campaign.” Beginning in 2012, we disaster-affected areas. extended our March campaign to three days. Under this campaign, we donate one percent of the value of yellow receipts placed in a dedicated box by customers to initiatives for supporting children in the Tohoku region. 95 Aeon Environmental and Social Report 2015 Awards List from the outside (FY 2014) Date Awards February 3, 2015 Awarded the Bronze Class in RobecoSAM Sustainability Award2015. [AEON CO., LTD.] Aeon’s Energy Advisor Program received the Grand Prize for Excellence in Energy Efficiency and Conservation. [AEON CO., January 28, 2015 LTD.] Received the Eighth Minister of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism Award for Barrier-Free Design Contributor. [Aeon January 19, 2015 Mall Co., Ltd.] December 17, 2014 Received the Joint Grand Award in the Category of Public Space in the IAUD Award. [Aeon Retail Co., Ltd.] November 10, 2014 Aeon was honored for excellence in climate change information disclosure three years in a row. [AEON CO., LTD.] March 6, 2015 Received the Grand Prize in the Basic Achievement of the J-Win Diversity Award. [AEON CO., LTD.] March 15, 2015 Elected to diversity management companies 100 election. [AEON CO., LTD.] March 18, 2015 Received the Japan Resilience Awards (toughening Grand Prize) 2015. [AEON CO., LTD.] Aeon Environmental and Social Report 2015 96 GRI Guidelines Indicators GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES Strategy and Analysis Indicator Description Page Provide a statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization (such as CEO, chair, or equivalent senior G4-1 position) about the relevance of sustainability to the organization and the organization’s strategy for addressing Message from the CEO (P.2) sustainability -M  essage from the CEO (P.2) -A  EON Group CSR (P.7) F eature 1: Dialogue with Stakeholders G4-2 Provide a description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities (P.11) F eature 2: The Challenge of Aeon people (P.17) -R  isk Management P.29) Organizational Profile Indicator Description Page G4-3 Report the name of the organization Aeon Group Overview (P.3) G4-4 Report the primary brands, products, and services -A  eon Group Overview (P.3) -A  eon Group Overview (P.5) G4-5 Report the location of the organization’s headquarters -B  ack cover Report the number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries where either the organization G4-6 -A  eon Group Overview (P.5) has significant operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability topics covered in the report G4-7 Report the nature of ownership and legal form -A  eon Group Overview (P.3) G4-8 Report the markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of customers and beneficiaries) -A  eon Group Overview (P.3) G4-9 Report the scale of the organization Aeon Group Overview (P.5) a. Report the total number of employees by employment contract and gender b. Report the total number of permanent employees by employment type and gender c. Report the total workforce by employees and supervised workers and by gender d. Report the total workforce by region and gender G4-10 e. Report whether a substantial portion of the organization’s work is performed by workers who are legally recognized — as self-employed, or by individuals other than employees or supervised workers, including employees and supervised employees of contractors f. Report any significant variations in employment numbers (such as seasonal variations in employment in the tourism or agricultural industries) G4-11 Report the percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining agreements L abor Union Status (P.91) G4-12 Describe the organization’s supply chain Report any significant changes during the reporting period regarding the organization’s size, structure, ownership, or its G4-13 supply chain Commitment to External Initiatives Risk Management (P.29) Compliance (P.30) G4-14 Report whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the organization Aeon Supplier Code of Conduct (P.75) Quality Management of TOPVALU Brand Products (P.78) List externally developed economic, environmental and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the -A  eon Group Overview (P.3) G4-15 organization subscribes or which it endorses -A  EON Group CSR (P.8) G4-16 List memberships of associations (such as industry associations) and national or international advocacy organizations — Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries Indicator Description Page a. List all entities included in the organization’s consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents G4-17 b. R  eport whether any entity included in the organization’s consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents is -A  eon Group Overview (P.3) not covered by the report -A  EON Group CSR (P.7) a. Explain the process for defining the report content and the Aspect Boundaries G4-18 F eature 1: Dialogue with Stakeholders b. Explain how the organization has implemented the Reporting Principles for Defining Report Content (P.11) G4-19 List all the material Aspects identified in the process for defining report content -A  EON Group CSR (P.7) -P  rogress of KPI of FY 2014 (P.40, 48, 56, 64G4-20 For each material Aspect, report the Aspect Boundary within the organization 65) G4-21 For each material Aspect, report the Aspect Boundary outside the organization — T he number of the Second-Party Audit G4-22 Report the effect of any restatements of information provided in previous reports, and the reasons for such restatements enforcement factories (P.76) G4-23 Report significant changes from previous reporting periods in the Scope and Aspect Boundaries Not applicable Stakeholder Engagement Indicator Description Page G4-24 Provide a list of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization AEON Group CSR (P.9) F eature 1: Dialogue with Stakeholders G4-25 Report the basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage (P.11) 97 Aeon Environmental and Social Report 2015 Report the organization’s approach to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and by Feature 1: Dialogue with Stakeholders G4-26 stakeholder group, and an indication of whether any of the engagement was undertaken specifically as part of the report (P.11) preparation process Report key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the organization has F eature 1: Dialogue with Stakeholders G4-27 responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting. Report the stakeholder groups that raised (P.11) each of the key topics and concerns Report Profile Indicator Description Page G4-28 Reporting period (such as fiscal or calendar year) for information provided Editorial Policy (P.1) G4-29 Date of most recent previous report E ditorial Policy (P.1) G4-30 Reporting cycle (such as annual, biennial) E ditorial Policy (P.1) G4-31 Provide the contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents -B ack cover GRI Content Index a. Report the ‘in accordance’ option the organization has chosen G4-32 b. Report the GRI Content Index for the chosen option GRI Guidelines Indicators (P.97) c. Report the reference to the External Assurance Report, if the report has been externally assured Assurance a. R  eport the organization’s policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report b. If not included in the assurance report accompanying the sustainability report, report the scope and basis of any external assurance provided. Corporate Governance (P.27) G4-33 c. R  eport the relationship between the organization and the assurance providers CSR Promotion Structure (P.40) d. R  eport whether the highest governance body or senior executives are involved in seeking assurance for the organization’s sustainability report Governance Indicator Description Page Governance Structure and Composition a. Report the governance structure of the organization, including committees of the highest governance body Corporate Governance (P.27) G4-34 b. Identify any committees responsible for decision-making on economic, environmental and social impacts CSR Promotion Structure (P.40) Report the process for delegating authority for economic, environmental and social topics from the highest governance G4-35 -C  SR Promotion Structure (P.40) body to senior executives and other employees Report whether the organization has appointed an executive-level position or positions with responsibility for economic, G4-36 -C  SR Promotion Structure (P.40) environmental and social topics, and whether post holders report directly to the highest governance body Report processes for consultation between stakeholders and the highest governance body on economic, environmental G4-37 and social topics. If consultation is delegated, describe to whom and any feedback processes to the highest governance — body G4-38 Report the composition of the highest governance body and its committees -C orporate Governance (P.27) Report whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer (and, if so, his or her function within G4-39 -C orporate Governance (P.27) the organization’s management and the reasons for this arrangement Report the nomination and selection processes for the highest governance body and its committees, and the criteria G4-40 -C orporate Governance (P.27) used for nominating and selecting highest governance body members G4-41 Report processes for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided and managed -C orporate Governance (P.27) Role of Highest Governance Body in Setting the Purpose, Value and Strategies Report the highest governance body’s and senior executives’ roles in the development, approval, and updating of the G4-42 organization’s purpose, value or mission statements, strategies, policies, and goals related to economic, environmental CSR Promotion Structure (P.40) and social impacts Ability of the Highest Governance Body and Evaluation of its Performance Report the measures taken to develop and enhance the highest governance body’s collective knowledge of economic, G4-43 CSR Promotion Structure (P.40) environmental and social topics a. R  eport the processes for evaluation of the highest governance body’s performance with respect to governance of economic, environmental and social topics. Report whether such evaluation is independent or not, and its frequency. Report whether such evaluation is a selfassessment G4-44 — b. R  eport actions taken in response to evaluation of the highest governance body’s performance with respect to governance of economic, environmental and social topics, including, as a minimum, changes in membership and organizational practice Role of the Highest Governance Body in Risk Management a. R  eport the highest governance body’s role in the identification and management of economic, environmental and social impacts, risks, and opportunities. Include the highest governance body’s role in the implementation of due G4-45 diligence processes — b. R eport whether stakeholder consultation is used to support the highest governance body’s identification and management of economic, environmental and social impacts, risks, and opportunities Report the highest governance body’s role in reviewing the effectiveness of the organization’s risk management G4-46 Risk Management P.29) processes for economic, environmental and social topics Report the frequency of the highest governance body’s review of economic, environmental and social impacts, risks, and G4-47 — opportunities Role of the Highest Governance Body in the Sustainability Report Report the highest committee or position that formally reviews and approves the organization’s sustainability report and G4-48 CSR Promotion Structure (P.40) ensures that all material Aspects are covered Aeon Environmental and Social Report 2015 98 GRI Guidelines Indicators Role of the Highest Governance Body in the Evaluation of Social, Environmental and Social Performance G4-49 Report the process for communicating critical concerns to the highest governance body Risk Management P.29) Report the nature and total number of critical concerns that were communicated to the highest governance body and G4-50 — the mechanism(s) used to address and resolve them Remuneration and Incentives G4-51 Remuneration policies for the highest governance body and senior executives Corporate Governance (P.27) Report the process for determining remuneration. Report whether remuneration consultants are involved in determining G4-52 remuneration and whether they are independent of management. Report any other relationships which the -C  orporate Governance (P.27) remuneration consultants have with the organization G4-53 How stakeholders’ views are sought and taken into account regarding remuneration — Report the ratio of the annual total compensation for the organization’s highest-paid individual in each country of G4-54 significant operations to the median annual total compensation for all employees (excluding the highest-paid individual) — in the same country Report the ratio of percentage increase in annual total compensation for the organization’s highest-paid individual in G4-55 each country of significant operations to the median percentage increase in annual total compensation for all employees — (excluding the highest-paid individual) in the same country Ethics and Integrity Indicator Description Page Aeon Basic Principles (P.2) Describe the organization’s values, principles, standards and norms of behavior such as codes of conduct and codes of G4-56 Aeon Sustainability Principle (P.9) ethics Aeon Code of Conduct (P.30) -C  ode of Conduct Hotline (P.30) Report the internal and external mechanisms for seeking advice on ethical and lawful behavior, and matters related to G4-57 S ystem for Listening to the Opinions of organizational integrity, such as helplines or advice lines Customers (P.84) -C  ode of Conduct Hotline (P.30) Report the internal and external mechanisms for reporting concerns about unethical or unlawful behavior, and matters G4-58 S ystem for Listening to the Opinions of related to organizational integrity, such as escalation through line management, whistleblowing mechanisms or hotlines Customers (P.84) SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES Indicator Description Page Disclosures on Management Approach AEON Group CSR (P.9) a. Report why the Aspect is material. Report the impacts that make this Aspect material Feature 1: Dialogue with Stakeholders G4-DMA b. Report how the organization manages the material Aspect or its impacts (P.11) c. Report the evaluation of the management approach Management Approach (P.39, 47, 55, 63) Economic Indicator Description Page Aspect: Economic Performance G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed Aeon Group Overview (P.3) -D  eveloping and Selling Products that Help G4-EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization’s activities due to climate change Reduce CO2 Emissions (P.45) G4-EC3 Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan obligations — G4-EC4 Financial assistance received from government — Aspect: Market Presence G4-EC5 Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local minimum wage at significant locations of operation — G4-EC6 Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local minimum wage at significant locations of operation — Aspect: Indirect Economic Impacts Feature 2: Co-Existing with the Community (P.21) G4-EC7 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services supported Smart Aeon development (P.43) Community Involvement (P.66) G4-EC8 Significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of impacts — Aspect: Procurement Practices G4-EC9 Proportion of spending on local suppliers at significant locations of operation — Environmental Indicator Description Page Aspect: Materials Environmental load in business activities G4-EN1 Materials used by weight or volume (P.37) G4-EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials 99 Aeon Environmental and Social Report 2015 Aspect: Energy Environmental load in business activities G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organization (P.37) G4-EN4 Energy consumption outside of the organization — G4-EN5 Energy intensity E nhancing Energy Efficiency (P.41) Feature 2: Promoting Energy Conservation G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption (P.17) Enhancing Energy Efficiency (P.41) G4-EN7 Reductions in energy requirements of products and services — Aspect: Water Environmental load in business activities G4-EN8 Total water withdrawal by source (P.37) G4-EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water — G4-EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused — Aspect: Biodiversity Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside G4-EN11 Not applicable protected areas Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity in protected areas and areas of high G4-EN12 -C  onservation of Biodiversity (P.47) biodiversity value outside protected areas -B  iodiversity Conservation at the Store Level (P.51) G4-EN13 Habitats protected or restored S ustainable Forest Conservation (P.52) T ree planting activity of Aeon Environmental Foundation (P.54) Total number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with habitats in areas affected by operations, G4-EN14 Not applicable by level of extinction risk Aspect: Emissions G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 1) Greenhouse gas emissions (P.45) G4-EN16 Energy indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 2) -G  reenhouse gas emissions (P.45) G4-EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 3) S cope 3 Emissions (P.45) G4-EN18 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity -D ecreasing CO2 emissions (P.41) G4-EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions — G4-EN20 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) — G4-EN21 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions — Aspect: Effluents and Waste G4-EN22 Total water discharge by quality and destination Environmental load in business activities (P.37) G4-EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method Initiatives for Zero Waste in Stores and Products (P.57) G4-EN24 Total number and volume of significant spills Not applicable Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed hazardous under the terms of the Basel G4-EN25 — Convention2 Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies and related habitats significantly affected by the G4-EN26 — organization’s discharges of water and runoff Aspect: Products and Services Development of Eco Stores (Smart Aeon) (P.43) Recharging Stations for Electric Vehicles (P.43) Developing and Selling Products that Help Reduce CO2 Emissions (P.45) G4-EN27 Extent of impact mitigation of environmental impacts of products and services S ustainable Resource Usage in Products (P.49) Initiatives for Zero Waste in Stores and Products (P.57) -R  educing Waste together with customers (P.59) Construction of Food Recycling Loop (P.58) Use of Returnable Containers (P.59) G4-EN28 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed by category Reducing Waste by Collecting Resources in Stores (P.61) Aspect: Compliance Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance with environmental G4-EN29 Not applicable laws and regulations Aspect: Transport Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials for the organization’s Increasing Visibility of Distribution G4-EN30 operations, and transporting members of the workforce Operations (P.44) Aeon Environmental and Social Report 2015 100 GRI Guidelines Indicators Aspect: Overall G4-EN31 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type Environmental Accounting (P.35) Aspect: Supplier Environmental Assessment G4-EN32 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria — G4-EN33 Significant actual and potential negative environmental impacts in the supply chain and actions taken -A  eon Supplier Code of Conduct (P.75) Aspect: Grievance Mechanisms G4-EN34 Number of grievances about environmental impacts filed, addressed, and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms Not applicable Social Indicator Description Page Labor practices and decent work Aspect: Employment G4-LA1 Total number and rates of new employee hires and employee turnover by age group, gender, and region — Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees, by significant G4-LA2 — locations of operation Creating Pleasant, Comfortable Workplaces G4-LA3 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender (P.90) S ecuring Work-Life Balance (P.90) Aspect: Labor/Management Relations G4-LA4 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes, including whether these are specified in collective agreements — Aspect: Occupational Health and Safety Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management–worker health and safety committees that help Health and Safety Committees (P.91) G4-LA5 monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs Labor Union Status (P.91) Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and total number of work-related G4-LA6 — fatalities, by region and by gender G4-LA7 Workers with high incidence or high risk of diseases related to their occupation — G4-LA8 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions — Aspect: Training and Education G4-LA9 Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and by employee category — Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability of employees and assist T raining Programs Supporting the Growth G4-LA10 them in managing career endings of Employees (P.92) Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews, by gender and by employee G4-LA11 — category Aspect: Diversity and Equal Opportunity Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee category according to gender, age G4-LA12 Promoting Diversity (P.87) group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity Aspect: Equal Remuneration for Women and Men G4-LA13 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men by employee category, by significant locations of operation — Aspect: Supplier Assessment for Labor Practices G4-LA14 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using labor practices criteria — G4-LA15 Significant actual and potential negative impacts for labor practices in the supply chain and actions taken -A  eon Supplier Code of Conduct (P.75) Aspect: Labor Practices Grievance Mechanisms G4-LA16 Number of grievances about labor practices filed, addressed, and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms Not applicable Human Rights Aspect: Investment Total number and percentage of significant investment agreements and contracts that include human rights clauses or G4-HR1 — that underwent human rights screening Total hours of employee training on human rights policies or procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are G4-HR2 -H  uman Rights-related Training (P.89) relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained Aspect: Non-discrimination G4-HR3 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken — Aspect: Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining Operations and suppliers identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining may G4-HR4 Aeon Supplier Code of Conduct (P.75) be violated or at significant risk, and measures taken to support these rights Aspect: Child Labor Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor, and measures taken to contribute G4-HR5 Aeon Supplier Code of Conduct (P.75) to the effective abolition of child labor Aspect: Forced or Compulsory Labor Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor, and measures to G4-HR6 Aeon Supplier Code of Conduct (P.75) contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor 101 Aeon Environmental and Social Report 2015 Aspect: Security Practices Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization’s human rights policies or procedures that are relevant to G4-HR7 — operations Aspect: Indigenous Rights G4-HR8 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous peoples and actions taken — Aspect: Assessment G4-HR9 Total number and percentage of operations that have been subject to human rights reviews or impact assessments — Aspect: Supplier Human Rights Assessment G4-HR10 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using human rights criteria — G4-HR11 Significant actual and potential negative human rights impacts in the supply chain and actions taken -A  eon Supplier Code of Conduct (P.75) Aspect: Human Rights Grievance Mechanisms G4-HR12 Number of grievances about human rights impacts filed, addressed, and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms Not applicable Society Aspect: Local Communities Feature 2: Promoting Energy Conservation Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, impact assessments, and development G4-SO1 (P.17) programs Community Involvement (P.66) G4-SO2 Operations with significant actual or potential negative impacts on local communities Not applicable Aspect: Anti-corruption G4-SO3 Total number and percentage of operations assessed for risks related to corruption and the significant risks identified — -C  ompliance training and education (P.31) G4-SO4 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and procedures -P  romoting Corporate Ethics at Group Companies Overseas (P.31) G4-SO5 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken Not applicable Aspect: Public Policy G4-SO6 Total value of political contributions by country and recipient/beneficiary — Aspect: Anti-competitive Behavior G4-SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes Not applicable Aspect: Compliance Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance with laws and G4-SO8 Not applicable regulations Aspect: Supplier Assessment for Impacts on Society G4-SO9 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using criteria for impacts on society — G4-SO10 Significant actual and potential negative impacts on society in the supply chain and actions taken -A  eon Supplier Code of Conduct (P.75) G4-SO11 Number of grievances about impacts on society filed, addressed, and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms Not applicable Aspect: Customer Health and Safety Aspect: Customer Health and Safety Percentage of significant product and service categories for which health and safety impacts are assessed for Quality Management of TOPVALU Brand G4-PR1 improvement Products (P.78) Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning the health and safety G4-PR2 — impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes Aspect: Product and Service Labeling Labeling and Disclosing Product Type of product and service information required by the organization’s procedures for product and service information G4-PR3 Information (P.79) and labeling, and percentage of significant product and service categories subject to such information requirements Labeling of Nutritional Contents (P.86) Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and service G4-PR4 information and labeling, by type of outcomes G4-PR5 Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction S ystem of Dialog with Customers (P.84) Aspect: Marketing Communications G4-PR6 Sale of banned or disputed products Not applicable Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing G4-PR7 Not applicable communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship, by type of outcomes Aspect: Customer Privacy G4-PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data Not applicable Aspect: Compliance Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of G4-PR9 Not applicable products and services Aeon Environmental and Social Report 2015 102 Planting Seeds of Growth We are AEON Please contact us concerning any inquiries or comments you may have on this report or on our environmental and social activities. AEON CO., LTD. Group Corporate Citizenship Dept. 1-5-1 Nakase, Mihama-ku, Chiba-shi, Chiba, 261-8515 Japan Tel: +81-43-212-6037 Fax: +81-43-212-6790 URL: http://www.aeon.info/ 2015.9.18
