SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 01 About Alliance arkitekter 02 About Global Compact 03 The Principles 04 Statement of Continued Support 05 Living the principles 06 Achievements in the report period 07 Sustainable design in our projects 08 Our Goals for the next year The scope of our work spans from case studies CURIOUS, RESPONSIBLE and CHALLENGING. and area planning to the development and In the spring of 2007, as the first architectural completion of building projects. Our projects office in Norway, we became members of the range from detailing a 50 m² boat house UN’s Global Compact, where members commit 01 to developing 470 000 m² area plans. We to aligning their operations with ten principles About primarily work with new construction, but are concerning environment, anti-corruption, human also involved in renovation, restoring and rights and labour. extensions to existing structures. The majority Alliance arkitekter of our commissions consist of residential and commercial developments. We do developement OUR STATED VISION: design from concecept to completion. WE MAKE Our studio is organized as a non-hierarchical/ ARCHITECTURE Alliance arkitekter AS is a Norwegian architectural horizontal structure and we continuously seek FOR A BETTER WORLD to collaborate with groups and individuals studio established in June 2005, with offices both in from other disciplines. We believe that such Oslo and Stavanger. The studio collaborates with collaboration contributes to a positive synergy Our involvement so far is mainly concerned various offices and disciplines, and we frequently effect as well as add inspiration and learning to with environmental sustainability and labour the work processes, resulting in creative methods standards. Furthermore, we promote the role of participate in architectural competitions. and original results. We carefully assemble architecture as a trigger in encouraging the public teams with the necessary requested experience to participate on environmental and social issues. in combination with innovative strategies. This As architects we aspire to encourage the discourse represents the energy and an attitude that on our current and future urban development, inspire us in our daily work. We also have a set of where the interests of private developers may values that we strive to implement in all we do: diverge from the needs of the society. Restaurant Onda, Aker brygge in Oslo / Photo by Terje Skåre 02 The UN Global Compact is a strategic policy Compact. This ever-increasing understanding is About initiative for businesses committed to aligning reflected in the Global Compact’s rapid growth. their operations and strategies with ten universally With over 12.000 corporate participants and accepted principles on human rights, labour, other stakeholders from over 145 countries, it Global compact environment and anti-corruption. By doing so, is the largest voluntary corporate responsibility business, as a primary driver of globalization, initiative in the world. can help markets, commerce, technology and finance advance in ways that benefit economies and societies everywhere. The Global Compact is a practical framework for the development, implementation, and As social, political and economic issues — at disclosure of sustainability policies and practices. home or in other regions — increasingly affect Offering participants a wide range of work business, many companies recognize the need streams, management tools and resources, to collaborate and partner with governments, the framework is designed to help advance civil society, labour and NGO’s like the UN Global sustainable business models and markets. “Due to the type and small size of our business, our biggest impact is via our clients, various connections to collaborators and the media. We are committed to raise awareness around Global Compact and the ten principles, and pro-actively encourage them to take actions” Founder & Creative Director Harald M. Gjøvaag 03 The Principles ANTI-CORRUPTION HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1: Businesses should work against Alliance arkitekter is committed to work against Principle 6: Businesses should support Alliance arkitekter is committed to the protection corruption in all its forms, corruption in all its forms. and respect the protection of of international human rights within our sphere including extortion and bribery. internationally proclaimed of influence. human rights. Principle 7: Make sure that they are not Alliance arkitekter fulfils all its responsibilities complicit in human rights abuses accordingtoNorwegianlaw,includingimplementing LABOUR a health and safety management system. The company holds a third party certification as a Principle 2: Businesses should uphold the Alliance arkitekter is committed to protect “Sustainability lighthouse” (Miljøfyrtårn), with freedom of association and the labour rights, including freedom of association, obligations on healthand safety management effective recognition of the right to abolition of forcedand child labour, and the beyond the legislative minimum. Progress is collective bargaining. elimination of any type of discrimination. reported annually since 2012. Principle 3: The elimination of all forms of Alliance arkitekter fulfils all its responsibilities ENVIRONMENT forced and compulsory labour. according to Norwegian law. Beyond the legislative demand, Alliance arkitekter has Principle 8: Businesses should support a Alliance arkitekter is committed to the promotion Principle 4: The effective abolition of child appointed employee representatives in both precautionary approach to of greater environmental responsibility and labour. office locations as council and neutral support environmental challenges. precautionary approaches to environmental for employees on issues regarding salary challenges in our sphere of influence. Principle 5: The elimination of discrimination negotiation and contractual dispute. Principle 9: Undertake initiatives to promote in respect of employment and greater environmental responsibility. We seek to involve users and stakeholders at occupation. Alliance arkitekter sees great value in geographical an early project stage. We design for a healthy and ethnic diversity among its work force. Principle 10: Encourage the development living-, workingand social environment, and and diffusion of environmentally believe this is key to a sustainable society. friendly technologies. We make an effort to reduce our resourceand energy use in our running of the office and the project development. We aim to achieve best practice for our projects through the use of international building and area planning certification systems, such as BREEAM, and recognized national standards like the passive house principle. Mini-hotel Steinboligen at Finse, Norway / Photo by Alliance arkitekter Architecture, as a part of the building industry, is knowledge on sustainable design, offering a the largest source of greenhouse gas emissions broader range of services to our clients. This has led worldwide. Every time we design a building, to a more environmentally sound project portfolio. we project its energy consumption and its greenhouse gas footprint for the next 50-100 We have implemented different internal measures years. This emphasizes why the building industry to improve our social impact. Furthermore, we and architecture is so critical, and why our have attended different network meetings and 04 membership in The Global Compact is a vital seminars on sustainable design. We participate and relevant tool for our practice. in the public debate concerning architect’s social Statement of responsibility and role in society and strive for an Since the office was launched in June 2005, we innovative architecture. have been focusing on how to utilize the ten continued support principles within our sphere of influence and how to encourage other companies, partners and collaborators to act likewise. After five years We believe that the social and environmental components are crucial in the development of long term profits and competitive advantages, of Global Compact activities, it’s clear to us that and we plan to continue and further develop our even a small architectural office can make a commitment to the Global Compact principles. considerable contribution in our common efforts to improve the world. Additionally we continue to seek ways to develop our work and proficiency through workshops, During the last few years, our most successful courses, a wide range of interdisciplinary strategy towards the principles has been through collaborations, study trips, literature as well as changing our client’s attitude on environmental the constant exchange of ideas and experience. design. Parallel to this, we have increased our Oslo, May 2015 Harald Martin Gjøvaag Founder & Creative Director It is now more than eight years since we took for the first eight years of practice, securing a on board The Global Compact in our office. fair salary development in the initial years of Since the start, we have had a rapid growth in practice, regardless of gender, parental leave 05 both project volume and staff, including setting or negotiation skills. Living the up a second office in Stavanger. Following the G.C. principles, we have put a lot of effort into The office has done a competence mapping of developing both a good work place and great the staff to ensure that the competence at hand is principles projects. This has required both a process of used correctly. We also seek to develop new areas defining and reaching for our goals, and to of expertise through education and courses, and develop a framework of implementation. by encouraging staff to enter the public arena through debates, lectures, and teaching. In terms Since the start up, the office has regularly used of sustainable design, we are committed to raise surveys to map staff priorities for the resources at the bar on both the types and number of projects As architects we have a remarkable opportunity to influence hand. Now that we have settled in as a medium with this approach, and in terms of developing the building industry in areas considering design, methods size company with some years’ experience, we skills in our management framework. and materials. We take advantage of this opportunity as have managed to put more of the priorities of the staff into life, such as a shorter workweek The office has chosen BREEAM as the preferred often as we can. and a better pension scheme. In addition, we tool for environmental assessment in planning have put extra effort into health and safety and building projects. We also work with issues such as optimizing the workspace and other environmental standards such as the providing a good health insurance for the staff. passive house standard or area specific The office has developed a fixed salary system sustainable programs. Housing development, Støperigaten 25 in Stavanger / Photo by Tove Laluten HUMAN RIGHTS IN-HOUSE ANTI-CORRUPTION IN-HOUSE Goal Goal Establish a partnership relation for a specific Continue with a transparent economy and project with a Norwegian or foreign NGO company administration open to all employees. working with human rights. Result Result We continue to involve the staff in decision Allthough we have done some research to making when it comes to economy and company achieve this, we have not yet found a NGO partner administration. The monthly accounts is placed to cooperate with in our ongoing projects. in public files, so all employees can read it. In 06 january 2015 we started the process where employees are able to be co-owners of the Achievements in HUMAN RIGHTS IN BUILDING PROJECTS company. This gives everyone the opportunity to be part of making decisions both financially and the report period Goal academically. Every fourth week we have office Recommend materials where human rights are meetings where important issues are stated and considered in the producing process. discussed. Result The company continues to disseminate knowledge ANTI-CORRUPTION IN BUILDING PROJECTS In 2014 we set specific goals for the principles for the on sustainable and responsibly sourced materials Goal next year. Our goals and achievements are described within its staff, and actively suggest such material Continue to promote the principles by implementing alternatives in our projects, including awareness our ethical standard in contracts, in dialogue with in the following. on recognized material certification. our project groups and through our publications and social media activities. Result We’ve published the sustainability report on our new web page and blog to show our vision and opinion on these important principles. We also share the report on social media Facebook and Twitter. The printed sustainability report is often handed out to customers to show our commitment. Our contracts in building projects are fair and according to Norwegian law, and the staff is encouraged to read up on new standards and laws. LABOUR IN-HOUSE LABOUR IN BUILDING PROJECTS ENVIRONMENT IN-HOUSE Goal Goal Goal Goal Improve our office environment by adding Define at least one innovation factor in each Decrease the number of flights per year. We aim Use less electricity in the office by taking actions plants, better facilities for model building and project to promote learning and quality awareness. to reduce our CO2 emissions by 5 %. such as: using the stairs instead of the elevator, small workshops, and introduce small exercise adjusting lights and heat according to climate, breaks through the day. Result Result and turn off computers at the end of the day. For every project, the team defines one or more We managed to reduce the number of travels Result topics of special focus. This encourage the by aeroplane from 114 to 73. We also encourage Result We have not fully achieved this goal yet. The builder to consider new methods and solutions, staff to travel by bicycle, train, bus or tram We are proud to say that we have reduced the plants are still in planning for the correct type and including increased focus on sustainable design. whenever possible. This have resulted in the use amount of electricity from 97 527 kWH in 2013 to amount to our indoor environment. We don’t do This becomes a possibility for additional learning of gasoline has gone from 2 615 litres in 2013 to 61 119 kWh in 2014. This is a reduction of 37 %, and exercise through the day, but every spring we for the project team. We hope to keep up this only 27 litres in 2014. we will continue the good initiative that is well participate in the relay race “Holmenkollstafetten”, focus for the coming period. established in our staff. which include exercise in the months before, and Goal a social event after. Make sure that most of our purchases are ecolabelled, organic or Fairtrade products. Goal Have presentations every other week to inspire Result and share knowledge between co-workers. Yes, we are very conscious about always buying Improve the video link between the Oslo and ecoand Fairtrade products where available. Stavanger offices, to make communication The fruit we get once a week is organic, and and sharing knowledge more accessible, and the company that provide our daily lunch is in reduce travelling. the process of getting the Norwegian lighthouse “Miljøfyrtårn” certification. Result Peer sharing and awareness of colleague Goal knowledge is a strategic goal to get the most Reduce the amount of waste by 5 %. out of each other’s competence. We have held a number of internal presentations on our Result projects, on topics like sustainable design or out Yes, we have actually managed to reduce the of house presentations that contribute to raising total amount of waste by 55 %. However, we wish staff competence. Through a number of small to recycle more when the municipality facilitate workshops we have involved the whole staff in this in the city centre. project start-ups to benefit from the experience and creativity. We hope to increase such interaction on a more regular basis. The number of web-meetings went up from 30 to 35 in 2014. ENVIRONMENT IN BUILDING PROJECTS EXTERNAL COMMUNICATION “People must be in the sentre of all urban Goal Goal development” Increase our focus on sustainable development in Publish at least three articles or events on area planningand building projects. architectural issues related to the principles, and Founder & Creative Director Harald M. Gjøvaag in particular on environmental sustainability. as leader of the council regarding Fornebu Result area outside Oslo. We are constantly seeking to implement Result environmental principles in all projects. When We have been given the chance to promote planning we encourage densification, facilitate issues related to the principles in the good use of outdoor areas, facilitate cycling, following forums: pedestrians and use of public transport, following the principles of “10-minute city” in the 1. Creative director Harald Martin Gjøvaag Stavanger region. participated as leader for the council regarding Fornebu area outside Oslo. Goal Always offer BREEAM certification to our projects. 2. Architect and partner Charlotte Helleland held presentation at the conference for Result urban settlement in Norheimsund. Yes, we always offer BREEAM certification in all projects, and encourage architecture with low 3. Charlotte also held presentation at NAL Oslo energy use such as passive housing. (Norwegian Architects Association), regarding “How to succeed on temporary urban spaces”. Goal Reduce the amount of waste on construction 4. Department manager Stavanger, Kirsten site by challenging the suppliers and contractors Welschemeyer held the presentation when it comes to material consumption and Sustainable building process for Stavanger recycling. municipality. Result 5. Kirsten also presented The Sustainable We aspire the thinking of a life cycle cost, and Building Process for Stavanger municipality. to consider materials which are easy to recycle in case of later demolishing. The material guide 6. By the end of semester at the University of compiled by Grønn Byggalliance (Green building alliance) is distributed to all of our staff to guide Stavanger, Kirsten participated in the debate them when choosing materials. on sustainable development of Nytorget as an urban space. In-fill at Nordre gate, Grünerløkka Oslo / Illustration by Alliance arkitekter 07 Sustainable design A major part of our projects consists of area planning, master plans and feasibility studies that lay down the framework for future For our building projects we have a growing portfolio where sustainable issues have been implemented. The majority of projects with in our projects buildings. Getting the regulatory framework right is key to optimizing the future buildings sustainable issues are in the range of offices, schools, housing and industry. We strive towards in terms of sustainable issues. We see a need a broader range of sustainable projects and for a broader and more holistic approach issues and for more ambitious goals. to sustainable planning that includes management of the sustainable issues In the following is a short introduction to through the process. For this reason, we some of our planning and building projects have started to use BREEAM Commmunities and how we have implemented the Global as a tool in several of our planning projects. Compact principles in the work. REGJERINGSKVARTALET A place to meet Team White, Alliance Architects and Sweco has as one of six teams submitted proposals for urban grip for the new government quarter in Oslo. The main concept is that the government quarter is actively used in an urban strategy to expand Oslo city center and creating good urban connections between east and west for pedestrians and cyclists. The distance from Young Square to the courthouse will be experienced in a completely new way. Hospital Gata is the best link between Youngstorget Rosenkrantzgate. Oslo center has the opportunity to become a much better Cycling and fotgjengerby if Hospitalgata opened up and revitalized a really good city street! City life in Oslo receive a new offer. Government buildings will be a new attraction and a new venue in the city. Illustration by Alliance arkitekter and White FREDRIKSTAD Innovation business park Close to the historical centre of Fredrikstad, Norway, a master plan for a sustainable and innovative business park is in progress. Today the area attracts creative businesses through the Hydrogen factory – a creative hub with design and art studios, and a gallery. Through the area’s location near the industrial area and dock at Øra, the business park also attracts innovational industrial businesses. There is enormous potential for densifying with both offices, workshops and housing, and also to further develop the site as a local centre for cultural activity and innovation. This through transforming older industrial buildings and sites into new business hubs. We focus on this area as a sustainable and innovative commercial park, where creative and industrial businesses can benefit from each other. The master plan is based on BREEAM Communities values to secure sustainable qualities at area plan level. Illustration by Alliance arkitekter TU SCHOOL A passive house star The primary school is shaped like a star, where the arms meet in an open common area connected to the canteen and library. One wing is lowered half a floor to reflect the sloping terrain, and provide the possibility for the stairs outside to flow through the building and form an amphitheatre on the inside. This creates a strong contact between inside and outside. Tu School is planned as a passive house building and houses a total of 350 pupils. Completed january 2015. Photo by Terje Skåre LYSAKER-SKØYEN Densifying cars away This study for the Agency for Planning and Building Services, Municipality of Oslo, illustrates the possibilities for densification to the point where new public rail transport can be introduced, reducing the car volume on the western corridor into Oslo by 50 %. Not only does this offer much needed building ground for densification within the city borders, but also improves the environmental footprint and the pollution load on the city immensely. Illustration by Alliance arkitekter 2020PARK BREEAM excellent 2020 Park is the first building of a larger area transformation from industry to mixed use housing and commerce. The building is close to completion and it’s asbuilt BREEAM certification. The goal and the preliminary design phase certificate level is BREEAM Excellent. Sustainable issues given particular attention are energy use, materials, ecological impact, indoor climate, transport, pollution and sustainable project management. Photo by Alliance arkitekter SANDNES INNER PORT NORTH Sustainable area planning The area planning project aims at transforming part of the harbor to an attractive extension of the city centre. The plan takes on board the framework of FutureCities Sandnes and BREEAM Communities to ensure sustainable qualities lies as a base for future building projects within the area plan. Illustration by Alliance arkitekter TOU PARK Low energy housing This transformation area is a central part of the urban development project, Urban Seafront in Stavanger. The area includes the Tou brewery which is heritage listed, and today the old brewery houses the cultural institution Tou Scene. Our area plan has sought to cultivate existing site qualities and adapt the area to its future surroundings. The project is universally designed and the buildings planned as low-energy standard with a compact shape, good insulation levels and a conscious insertion of glass. The buildings is connected to low carbon district heating. Tou Park is well connected to pedestrian and cycling networks and public transport to the centre of Stavanger. The environmental profile of the project is developed in collaboration with Enova, the Norwegian State Housing Bank and Future cities Stavanger. Photo by Tove Laluten HARESTAD SCHOOL Healthy learning Harestad school is planned as both a primary and a secondary school, for a total of 1150 pupils. The first phase consists of the secondary school, as well as a multifunctional hall for cultural purposes, and is planned for construction 2015-16. Space efficient and flexible plans, with a great focus on the possibilities of social interaction, are designed to provide a good platform for learning. There is an emphasis on a healthy indoor climate, low energy use, hybrid ventilation strategies and provision of daylight. BREEAM has been used as a guidance to good design practice through the design process. Harestad school is a collaboration project between SPINN arkitekter and Alliance arkitekter. Illustration by Alliance arkitekter HUMAN RIGHTS ENVIRONMENT In-house In-house Establish a partnership relation for a specific Decrease the number of flights per year. We aim project with a Norwegian or foreign NGO to reduce our flights from 73 to 63. working with human rights. Make sure that most of our purchases are ecoIn building projects labelled, organic or Fairtrade products. Recommend materials where human rights are considered in the producing process. Reduce the amount of waste by 10 %. We will 08 especially stress the importance of updating Goals for the calendar to make sure we order the correct ANTI-CORRUPTION amount of lunch. In-house the next report Continue with a transparent economy and Continue to use less electricity in the office by company administration open to all employees. taking actions such as: using the stairs instead of the elevator, adjusting lights and heat In building projects according to climate, and turn off computers Continue to promote the principles by at the end of the day. We will also find a more implementing our ethical standard in contracts, energy efficient printer. in dialogue with our project groups and through In order to track our progress on promoting the ten our publications and social media activities. In building projects principles, we have set specific goals for the coming Increase our focus on sustainable development in area planningand building projects. report period. LABOUR In-house Always offer BREEAM certification to our projects. Measure the quality of the indoor climate regarding oxygen levels. Also, explore the Reduce the amount of waste on construction possibility of green plants in the office. site by challenging the suppliers and contractors when it comes to material consumption and Have presentations of both ongoing and recycling. Also, consider recycling for the future finished projects to inspire and share knowledge when choosing materials. between co-workers. EXTERNAL COMMUNICATION In building projects Define at least one innovation factor in each project Participate on at least three events on to promote learning and quality awareness. architectural issues related to the principles, and in particular on environmental sustainability. This Communication of progress has been discussed, reviewed and approved by our board and all our employees. This report is published on the United Nations Global Compact website WWW.UNGLOBALCOMPACT.ORG and our own website WWW.ALLARK.NO Coverphoto by Terje skåre Tu school Tou Park, Stavanger KRISTIAN AUGUSTS GATE 13, 0164 OSLO +47 22 36 40 44 RYFYLKEGATA 22, 4014 STAVANGER +47 45 03 62 18
