CUBE ENGINEERING GmbH UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2014 CUBE Engineering GmbH has joined the UN Global Compact initiative in 2009. Through its participation the company underlines its core philosophy to contribute to a more sustainable and social world by providing consulting for renewable energy all over the world. As a globally acting company, CUBE is confronted with several challenges in terms of complying with internationally recognized principles such as those outlined in the UN Global Compact. Therefore, the company values the participation in the Global Compact as an important opportunity to receive strategic guidance on how to put the 10 principles into action. This Communication on Progress (COP) outlines the steps CUBE Engineering has taken since the last report to Global Compact to comply with the 10 principles. In addition, it sets out some indicators which will support the company in monitoring its activities and further progress in corporate responsibility actions throughout the upcoming years. Dipl. Ing. Stefan Chun General Manager, CUBE Engineering GmbH CUBE ENGINEERING GmbH Global Compact ABOUT THE COMPANY CUBE Engineering GmbH is a market leader in wind farm consultancy. It came into being following a merger between two highly regarded German engineering companies: “Ingenieurbüro Chun” and “plenum energy gmbh”. This new consultancy is able to draw on more than twenty years of experience. Since the beginning of the nineties the founders of CUBE Engineering has been active in the wind energy industry and has been supporting clients by measuring and analysing wind conditions, calculating energy yield, planning wind farms and studying the effects on the environment. In the past CUBE has provided professional services in relation to more than 9,000 wind turbines, with a combined total capacity of over 15,000 MW at more than 4,000 locations both at home and abroad. The range of contracts includes single elements or sections of the planning phase right through to the introduction of wind energy to new markets, by the use of pilot projects, educational seminars and workshops, and research projects. The capacity sizes of the projects could hardly be broader: everything from a few kW up to several hundred MW. In 2005, CUBE Engineering GmbH has been accredited by DAP (now called DAkkS) according to DIN EN/ISO/IEC 17025:2005. This accreditation covers the expertise of wind site assessments, 60 %-reference-output certificates (German Renewable Energy Law – EEG), turbulence analyses, noise emission and shadow flicker as well as wind measurements. CUBE’s Business Lines WIND POWER SOLAR POWER SMART POWER from 100 kW to 1,500 MW from 500 kWp to 50 MWp Decentralized Systems el. el. >50kW COP 2014 2 CUBE ENGINEERING GmbH Global Compact COMMITMENT TO THE GLOBAL COMPACT Being an official supporter of the United Nations Global Compact since October 2009, CUBE Engineering commits itself especially to the ten international principles set out by the Global Compact Initative in the four categories human rights, labor standards, the environment, and anti-corruption. These ten principles read as follows: Human Rights:  Principle 1: Business should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights and…  Principle 2: … make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Labour Standards:  Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association, the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining,…  Principle 4: … the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour,…  Principle 5: … the effective abolition of child labour and…  Principle 6: … the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment  Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges,  Principle 8: … undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility and…  Principle 9: … encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-Corruption  Principle 10: … Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. In the following table, we provide an overview on our commitments and actions that implement the above stated ten principles of the Global Compact in our daily business. COP 2014 3 CUBE ENGINEERING GmbH Global Compact HUMAN RIGHTS Principle Commitment and Actions Revision of Country Context CUBE Engineering GmbH respects all Human Before starting a project in a new country, the Rights set out in the “International bill of Human country context with respect to Human Rights Principle 1 +2 Rights” containing the “Universal Declaration of shall be reviewed. The national law of the Human Rights” which has been adopted and country will be analysed in order to identify any Business should support and proclaimed by the General Assembly of the particular Human Rights aspects that need to be suspect the protection of United Nations on December, 10th 1948 and the respected. internationally proclaimed two international covenants. human rights Revision of own Activities´ Impact Thereby, the “Universal Declaration of Human and make sure that they are Rights” contains mainly Human Rights with After review of the country context, the potential not complicit in human rights respect to non-education, free choice of impact of CUBEs planned activities/services will abuses. employment and cultural participation. The two be assessed and mitigation measures shall be covenants cover economic, social and cultural developed. A constant exchange with project as well as civil and political rights. partners and potentially affected stakeholders such as communities or indigenous people about Human Rights issues will be an indispensable form of mitigation. COP 2014 4 CUBE ENGINEERING GmbH Global Compact Labour Standards Principle Commitment and Action Principle 3 CUBE Engineering does not use forced, compulsory or child Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the labour. effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4-5 CUBE Engineering supports freedom of association and, The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; where applicable, recognizes the right to collective bargaining. The effective abolition of child labour; Principle 6 One of our central central value is to encourage and to respect The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and individuals within their work for our organization. occupation. We seek to create an working culture of diversity and inclusion. COP 2014 5 CUBE ENGINEERING GmbH Global Compact Environment Principle Commitment and Action Principle 7 CUBE Engineering is dedicated to manage their environmental Businesses should support a precautionary approach to impacts proactively. The company is committed to work together environment challenges; across borders to make an even bigger difference. CUBE Engineering itself consumes electricity only from renewable energy sources since 2011. All commuting employees have been encouraged to use bikes and trains instead of cars. A financial Principle 8 intensive is announced for everybody who changes to a more Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environment friendly transportation system. The guideline for the environmental responsibility; use of rental cars has been changed, to demand the use of cars with lower CO2 emission from the project engineers. Also it is not allowed to drive more than 120km/h with rented cars. Hybrid cars are preferred. CUBE Engineering is an expert within the area of renewable energies. Since the beginning of the 1990s, we have dedicated Principle 9 ourselves to this challenge. We started with engineering and consultancy for early wind farm projects. Building on this experience, and encourage the development and diffusion of we have developed a one-stop service for various types of projects environmentally friendly technologies. and developments within the Renewable Energy business. Our daily work is to support the establishing of cooperatives which are working in the Renewable Energy sector by offering free consulting. COP 2014 6 CUBE ENGINEERING GmbH Global Compact Anti-Corruption Principle Commitment and Action CUBE Engineering is committed to achieve a high standard of Principle 10 ethical behaviour in everything that we do. To act with integrity is Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, one of our core values. To do so, CUBE Engineering pointed out to including extortion and bribery. all their consultants who are working within the tendering processes, to keep distance from corruption and denounce any corruptive action to the management. COP 2014 7 CUBE ENGINEERING GmbH Global Compact MEASUREMENT OF CURRENT AND EXPECTED OUTCOMES The following table summarizes some indicators through which CUBE´s performance on implementing the 10 Global Compact principles will be measured and monitored in the future. The effectiveness of the indicators will be tested throughout the reporting year and lead to the set up of specific measurable goals with respect to each of the principles for the upcoming years. Principle CUBE’s specific INDICATOR 2014 Number of countries and projects for which a human rights specific due diligence assessment has 1 2 been carried out and preventive actions taken Number of project partners and clients which have been reviewed according to a human rights – 2 2 specific due diligence in order to avoid possible complicity 6 Share of female employees (in %) / number of international employees within CUBE 42 7 Number of Environmental Impact Assessments carried out 64 8 Number of initiatives undertaken to promote greater environmental responsibility 2 9 Number of Megawatt of wind power installed through the service and support of CUBE 2050 10 Number of cases in which CUBE has rejected or uncovered and denounced corruptive action COP 2014 8
